AAHP 173B; Clayton; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 173B Cornelius Clayton Jr.

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Marna Weston on September 9, 2011 1 hour, 14 minutes | 40 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Cornelius Clayton Jr. relates his family history, and talks about growing up and his early experiences in the education system. He also describes Jim Crow segregation in Melrose, Florida, as he experienced it firsthand. Mr. Clayton attended Central Academy High School in Palatka, Florida, and he describes those experiences as well, including the athletics program and what he remembered from Central playing the teams of other area schools. Mr. Clayton also talks about how he started in photography, and relates details of his experience in the Vietnam War, and his post-war struggles in dealing with posttraumatic stress disorder.





[Keywords: African American History; Putnam County, Florida; US Military Veterans; Central Academy High School]

















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 173B

Interviewee: Cornelius Clayton Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: September 9, 2011



	W:	This is Marna Weston for the Sam Proctor Oral History Program at the University of Florida. We’re in Pugh Hall in our conference, and our guest to be interviewed today is Mr. Cornelius Clayton. It is September 9th, 2011. Mr. Clayton thank you for continuing to be such a great part of our program and participating in a second interview in our workshop weekend.

	C:	Happy to be here.



	W:	Thank you very much. Mr. Clayton, would you please give your full name? C:	Cornelius Clayton Jr.

	W:	And when and where were you born?



	C:	I was born in Jacksonville, October the 19th, 1943. W:	Alrighty, and where do you currently reside?

	C:	In Melrose, Florida.



	W:	And how long have you resided there? C:	Since 1949.

	W:	Who were your parents Mr. Clayton?



	C:	They all deceased, but my dad was Cornelius Clayton Sr. and my mother was Ruby Lee Clayton which is deceased. Both of them are deceased.

	W:	I’m very sorry for your loss. Do you recall your parents’ birthdays? C:	My mother was December the 7th, 1922.

	W:	And your dad?



	C:	I can’t remember my dad’s. And because she was born on Pearl Harbor Day, I can remember that.





	W:	Okay now about your parent’s parents, if we could take it back a generation, who were your mother’s parents?

	C:	Okay, Maddie Magali was my mother’s mother, which was my grandmother. I don’t remember my father’s mother.

	W:	And how about the grandfathers on each side? Your dad’s dad and your mom’s dad?

	C:	Okay I didn’t have the opportunity of meeting my dad’s dad, but my grandfather which was my mother’s father I was raised up around him.

	W:	Okay and what was his name? C:	His name was Ernest Magali Jr. W:	And where was he from?

	C:	He was from a place called Brooklyn—it’s around by the Keystone Heights.



	W:	Was Brooklyn a predominantly African-American area, or was it mixed residences?

	C:	It was mixed. More of the Whites than the Blacks.



	W:	Do you have any further memories of the parents of your grandparents or any other information that you could share about the extended family?

	C:	Say that one more time.



	W:	Your grandparent’s parents on each side? C:	No I don’t. I can’t recall it.

	W:	Do you have brothers or sisters? C:	I have one brother and one sister. W:	And what are their names?







C:

Evangeline Grimes and my brother’s name is Ernest Vincent Clayton.

W:

Okay are they both still living?

C:

They still living.

W:

And where are they respectively?

C:

My brother lives out of Atlanta, and my sister resides in Gainesville.

W:

Okay, are you married?

C:

I am married.

W:

And what is your wife’s name?

C:

Her name is Thelma Clayton.

W:

Okay and the children?

C:

I have three kids—one by first marriage; Cassandra Clayton and Cornelius



Frederick Clayton, which he is in the military; my daughter lives in Gainesville;



and one offspring by ex-girlfriend that’s thirty-three. Her name is Detra Clayton.



She lives in Orlando.

W:

Okay, how did you meet your wife?

C:

First wife or second wife?

W:

As you may tell this tale, sir. It’s your story. [Laughter]

C:

Well the first wife was in high school during the high school time.

W:

Okay.

C:

And it was very short. About three years.

W:

Okay.

C:

Because we got married right out of high school.





	W:	Was there a large period of time between the end of your first marriage and the start of your second marriage, or did you get married again right away?

	C:	A long long time.



	W:	Would you like to elaborate and give us a number, or did you like to leave that a mystery for us?

	C:	I got married 1992 my present wife. But I dated her for ten years. W:	Okay. So how did you meet?

	C:	We was out back in the day when we used to go to the juke joints and that’s where I met her.

	W:	Okay.



	C:	And so-



	W:	Was it an immediate attraction or did you just kind of see each other and begin talking, or you took note of her and you spoke later, or who approached who first?

	C:	Well I had seen her and known her for a while before I said anything personal to her, and so that’s how we got together.

	W:	Okay well thank you for sharing that. I’d like to ask you about your education.



The last time that we spoke you were very forthcoming in your discussion of your participation in the Vietnam War, and also your experiences with the Veteran’s Administration following. And from that we were able to produce a podcast which we shared with you and appreciate your feedback and participation on that. In this interview I’d like to talk to you about the history of your education. What are your earliest memories of education? Where did you first get education?





	C:	Okay, I went to school in Putnam Hall Florida which is about seven miles from Melrose. And at school we went from the first through the fifth and we were transported from Putnam Hall to Johnson for just a short time. I can’t remember what the reason was, but it was a school that only went from first to fifth, and I think I might have been maybe in the fourth grade when they transported us from Putnam Hall Elementary School to Oak Grove Elementary School. Then they transferred us back to Putnam Hall way the school they built a school and it went to the eighth grade. At first it went first through sixth, but then it went to first through eighth. And do you want me to tell you anything about the school time?

	W:	Yes, but I did have a question before you get there because it’s a very interesting dynamic. You lived in a community where the students were going to schools in two different counties because Johnson is in Putnam County isn’t it?

	C:	All of it is Putnam County.



	W:	Oh Putnam Hall is also in Putnam County? C:	Right.

	W:	Okay, sorry. I assumed that was Alachua.



	C:	Now I must say we did have a White school in Melrose, but we could not go to the White school. So we was bus pass our hometown school to go to other schools.

	W:	Were there any strong feelings about that, or was everyone just, “Well that’s the school we have to go to”?

	C:	Well that was the way of life back during the day so you really didn’t feel anything different.





	W:	When you say it was the way of life, could you elaborate for someone that didn’t live through those times? It might be insightful for you to explain what do you mean by that was the way of life back then.

C:  Well I’m saying when you raised in a community, whatever the environment is, you adapt to it. I never lived up North so I didn’t really feel the difference in the Northern people. Like they coming together than the people down south.

W:  But as you’ve grown older and gained wisdom you now see there is a difference, or there was a difference?

C:   A big difference.



	W:	Could you talk about that difference? And I understand that you’re talking about segregation, but I was trying to get it spoken to in your own words. What was it like living in a segregated environment by law that you had to be separate?

	C:	Well we had division in Melrose like the gas station; we could not go in the front door. If we wanted something we had to go through the side door which was really a storage room, and ask for what we wanted. And if we had to use the restroom the restroom was around the back which was built into the building but the restroom had signs on them that said “Colored,” and one said “White”. And we also had mechanic shop that the man could work on our vehicles, and we could come in and pay him, but on the side also had sign that said “Colored” and “White” for the bathrooms. Also we had one restaurant we could not go into the front and sit down and eat. We could go to the kitchen inside and order our hamburger and take it home, or take it wherever and eat it.

	W:	What was the name of the restaurant?





C:  It was called “Kelly’s Restaurant” and the service station was called “Chipenies” It’s been there since 1935, and it still exists, but not with division. And the service station is turned into a chicken place; fast food.

	W:	I’m curious, you seem to describe it so dispassionately and so cordially, were you treated—even though it was separate—were you treated with courtesy when you went to the separate entrances and separate side doors, or was there a level of disrespect in your opinion beyond just the separation?

	C:	No, we were treated courteous.



	W:	But just that was where if you were Colored, that’s where you received service. C:	Right.

	W:	So there would only be problems if you tried to receive service— C:	Through the front door.

	W:	Okay, did you or anyone that you know ever do that, and did you witness a reaction from it?

	C:	No.



	W:	Never have?



	C:	Nobody ever tried it.



	W:	What do you think now over time might have happened if someone had done that?

	C:	Well they probably would have used the N-Word, and probably told you to get out of there. And then something else might have happened. We never had any violence because we did not cross the line.

	W:	When you say, “Cross the line” could you explain?





	C:	What I’m saying is like if we had tried to go in there, we don’t know what might have happened later on like some of the people that disliked us.

	W:	Where were the businesses owned by Black people, because if you were at these places that had the separate interests the mindset today we would say, “Well we’ll just go someplace where somebody Black owns”? So where was the Black restaurant or the Black mechanic shop?

	C:	Well basically all the businesses was owned by the Whites. Except my grandfather, he was a well driller and he owned his own business, that’s different from the stores. But he owned his own business and he did well.

	W:	How long did he operate his business?



	C:	He operated his business. He used to go back and forth upon the season in New York, and I guess he got tired of that, and he decided to drill wells. So he started out with a truck, and he had some kind of big wheel he would put on the back wheel. It would turn, he would wrap a rope around it plus it had three poles. So he’ll have a heavy iron that would come down and hit the pipe until it get down to the ground, and then he would screw on another one, and then do it again until he get ready to run a pipe within that pipe to ream out the sand and drill to the water.

	W:	Did you ever go to work with him and learn about this process?



	C:	I—not really went to work, I went with him, but my uncle followed his legacy in the well drilling. After my grandfather had a stroke, after he retired maybe like when he was sixty-three he had a stroke. My uncle, Ernest Magali Jr. had already learned the well drilling business, so he carried the business on. Also my





grandfather was a great mechanic. And my uncle—he learned those trades from him about mechanics when he was coming up as a teenager. Also my grandfather back in the [19]20s, we had a—that was before my time—a car dealership, which was selling model marlay malty, whatever. And my grandfather he was the mechanic. As a matter of fact he was the only Black so that had to be in the [19]20s. He was the only Black that was on staff.

	W:	Well thank you for allowing that little diversion away from education into business. You were telling me about the differences between going to school in Putnam Hall and Johnson. You were going to elaborate. I think you said

something about recess. But could you go back and describe what it was like to go to school in the places where you went?

	C:	I was only kidding about the recess. [Laughter] In Johnson we had like three big rooms, and then you might have three different classes divided up into three rooms. And the way we used to keep warm in the winter, we used to have old wooden stoves so we as they said back in the day we had to, “Fetch” wood. This is in Johnson.

	W:	A pot-bellied stove in the center of the room with the pipe going up to the top? So you had to fetch the wood?

	C:	Yeah.



	W:	Was that part of your responsibility each school day? Each of you brought so much wood?

	C:	No, they probably just didn’t give us enough wood to get us through the day. And going from Johnson back to Putnam Hall we had an old wooden stove, and we





used to go out into the woods and cut down trees, and bring some wood back. That’s talking about in the [19]50s. When I went on to probably the sixth grade the block schools, which they had built, they were sixth, seventh and eighth.

Okay, it was modern, and some of the teachers I had there in—I’ll say middle school—was later named Ms. Victoria McNeal, and the teacher that taught me when I got promoted from the eighth grade to the ninth grade, his name was Robert Allen. And he was from Palatka, which he’s still living. We also had a principal there from Palatka, and her name was Ellis Norwood. We had one more teacher that I can recall. Her name was Jeannie Cooper, and during that time we had a music period. This guy traveled from school to school, and I think he gave us a one hour music lesson. So he would go from school to school from like Putnam Hall to Johnson. In Melrose, the White school they had their own White teacher to teach them their music.

	W:	Was music education one of the things that you enjoyed about school? C:	Yes it was great.

	W:	Did you learn to play an instrument and master it on your own?



	C:	No I didn’t. We was learning the letters on the piano—we never did learn to play we just learned the notes.

	W:	You seem to have such a clear memory indifference for your teachers. Did you have a teacher that taught a favorite subject that you enjoyed during those years?

	C:	Well when I got in high school I did. W:	Okay.





	C:	So that would be my next step to go from the eighth grade to the ninth grade to talk about high school.

	W:	Okay, where did you go to high school?



	C:	I went to high school in Palatka, Florida and the name of the school is Central Academy High School, because back in the day it was an all-Black school. We would bus from Melrose to Palatka, which was probably about a good thirty miles one way. In the ninth grade we was assigned to a home room teacher which she—her name was Ms. Rachel D. Williams, and I was the teacher’s pet.

	W:	How did you get that? [Laughter]



	C:	Well I would go out to her car when she arrived that morning and towed her books into the…so I got to be real tight with my home room teacher, because we had to report in the morning, and report back to them in the evening before we dismiss.

	W:	What was the nature of the report? Just your presence or did you just say what you did during then?

	C:	Well she had to make sure to check you that you were there in the morning, and then check you out that evening before you catch the bus.

	W:	What subject did your home room teacher teach?



	C:	She taught English. I had one course under her. A teacher’s pet. W:	And did you enjoy your class with her?

	C:	Yes I did, because she didn’t put no pressure on me. Okay, and getting promoted from the ninth grade to the tenth grade-





	W:	Well before you go there I want to talk a little more about your English class. I’ve been told by people that I’ve had the honor to interview that the way classes were taught in this area were different than what we’re used to. There was a lot of recitation of poetry or passages from literature. That you would stand up and recite them, is that what happened in your English class as well?

	C:	No I think it was just basic and a whole lot of diagraming which I don’t think I ever learned how to do that.

	W:	Diagraming is something—yeah they don’t do that in the school at all anymore. C:	English was not my favorite.

	W:	Okay, but the teacher was your favorite. C:	Right.

	W:	Okay, so when you went from ninth grade to tenth grade what happened?



	C:	Okay, went to another level and some of the classes that I take and one of them was a trade in wood working. And my teacher was Mr. Ford and we had to have a related math class. Whatever trade you taking whether it was brick mason, or tailoring or wood working. Related math teacher was named Mr. Mason. So the related math would be related to carpentry skills.

	W:	So what type of mathematics was that? Was that algebra, geometry?



	C:	No it was basically measuring squares, measuring a pitch for a roof. So it basically wood working type. I did have algebra, but I mean it was a separate class itself. I can’t remember right now any more classes that I had. Well we had

P.E. naturally that was a requirement. I can’t remember what other classes that I’d taken in the eighth grade—I mean the tenth grade.





	W:	Were you involved in any clubs or organizations when you were in school?



	C:	No I wasn’t, but when I got—I think I took a trade two years with which was a three hour credit each time. When I got to be a senior I was voted to be the vice president of the senior class.

	W:	So was junior year a bad year, because you just skipped all over that one? You went straight from sophomore to senior. [Laughter]

	C:	Well I don’t really remember doing that much except taking classes, and I can’t really remember. There were certain classes that you had to take. Certain requirements that you had to take, but I forgot what the requirements were when I was in eleventh grade that’s why I kinda moved on a bit.

	W:	Did you participate in any sports?



	C:	No because I kinda worked on the weekend. I was a peewee; boys football. I only weighed probably about a hundred and ten pounds. I went out one time, but when the big boys got through—seem like they were going to tear me apart that one day, I did not return.

	W:	So you went out, got knocked out, and that was the end of it. [Laughter]



	C:	Got pushed back, rolled down and all that kind of good stuff. There so many—in eleventh grade we had a prom, which was nice. And we had a band was called the “D&B” the “Death and the Blind” from St. Augustine.

	W:	Oh, okay.



	C:	We had a good time in the old gym that we had—just a good time.



	W:	Do you remember who you went to the prom with during your junior and senior years?





C:  I think I remember the senior year. There was a lady from Putnam Hall just as my son said “just a friend.” She was just a friend.

W:  Louise Markey talking about she say she just a friend too so, was she really just a friend? [Laughter]

C:  She was just a date for that night, just a friend. W:  Okay.

C:  And I enjoyed the football game, because I went to football games. And I enjoyed the homecoming games; the homecoming games, the homecoming parades that we had.

W:   Did you have a bonfire for homecoming?



	C:	No we don’t do too much bonfire. [Laughter] W:	That was the other school.

	C:	Yeah right. [Laughter] I have friends that invite me because—well White friends that invite me. They like to do the bonfire and sit around. I don’t do bonfire. I don’t like to smell smoky.

	W:	So homecoming was in—did your school win a lot because—?



	C:	They had a good team. Yeah they did and three coaches was Coach White, Coach Coho, and Coach Moe, and I think they all went to Florida A&M. Not saying that’s why they were good, but they were very good. We had a pretty good basketball team and a pretty good baseball team.

	W:	Who were your main rivals? If you can think of a school that you remember that was the rival of the Central Academy, your team would really rise up and the





school would rise up for the challenge, who were those schools; your challengers?

	C:	I think it was a school up in Georgia, Wood Vine. Wood Vine, Georgia. [Telephone Rings] That’s me but excuse me I got it on vibrate. Another school was—Lincoln was bad. Lincoln High School here in Gainesville.

	W:	Everybody had problems with Lincoln. Everybody tells me. Whether it’s Jerkins—



	C:	Lincoln had some big boys, too. So when you got some big boys you’re in and you don’t equal up, you don’t match up. Mostly likely you not gonna—you can have some runners out there, but the runners gotta get through the whole abuse to get somewhere.

	W:	What about basketball? Were you as competitive in that as well?



	C:	The basketball, I mean I didn’t play any sports, but we had a good basketball; good basketball team.

	W:	And you mentioned baseball, so that’s unfortunately a sport where you don’t hear as much about Black student participation with baseball but these were all Black baseball teams correct?

	C:	Right right. And did not play White schools. W:	Okay did you enjoy those games?

	C:	Oh yes as a matter of fact, my brother used to pitch. He was a pretty good pitcher.

	W:	Did you have any sports idols when you were growing up whether Satchel Page, or Joe Lewis, or anybody stick out for you as significant?

	C:	Well maybe like Joe Lewis, but I wasn’t heavy into the sports.





	W:	What were you heavy into? What was your thing? C:	I think it was this right here.

	W:	Showing a camera.



	C:	No no taking pictures because I’ve been doing that since I was twelve. W:	Okay.

	C:	It’s been my life, my love. I think yall know by now. W:	What was the first camera that you ever used?

	C:	The first camera I had was a camera—I can’t think of the name of it, but the film was 12. And there was an update with my grandfather had one was called a Brownie. It was a more upscale camera than a little camera. As a matter of fact I have a brownie. I collect cameras. I have a brownie, and I have one of the cameras that look like the one that I started out with. So that was back when I was twelve so it had to be in the fifties.

	W:	How did you get that first camera?



	C:	I really don’t know. I can’t recall back on that. I don’t know how I did.



	W:	So you got to your senior year and what was it like because I’ve heard there are a lot of ceremonies for the senior year? All the seniors all year long will be moving toward graduation. The rest of the school will know these are the seniors. They were just the big people in the school. There’ll be graduation, convocation; all of that. What was your senior year like?

	C:	Well it was great. Particularly they would recognize outstanding students for whatever they might of benefitted to the school like some was good in band.





Some was good in the different clubs, some was good at speaking. That’s just a few of them.

	W:	You indicated you were the vice president of the student council that year- C:	No no senior class.

	W:	Senior class? Vice president—what were your responsibilities as the vice president of the senior class?

	C:	Well sometimes we had to speak, but most of the time the president of the class, he was normally there so he had my back.

	W:	Okay what was his name?



	C:	His name was Jimmy Cooper. W:	Have you all stayed in contact?

	C:	I see him occasionally when we have a class reunion. He don’t come like most people do. For a long time I didn’t go but once I started I never want to miss it. And when we have classmates to come home, as a matter of fact we had a person to come from California, and I hadn’t seen him since 1963. He retired out the Navy and stayed out that way. And he came and there’s one classmate—she always call the people around me and the people in Palatka. And we’d go to her house, and we all brang her a dish, and I’d take some good ‘ol fried chicken. As for them I don’t really care for the chicken and so we have a good time. We sit around, and we talk and we laugh, and I’d take pictures, and I’d video tape it.

And they socialize. We have a good time.



	W:	Some grown folks association? C:	Yes.





	W:	I understand completely.



	C:	Most organizations I’m in I’m dropping by. I’m always taking pictures anyway, so they normally make me the photographer. So I always cover the events. About maybe six months or nine months ago everybody that went to that school, we had a parade so it didn’t matter what year you graduated. I filmed that. I take the pictures of the parade. I take the pictures when they got back at the end when they dispersed. We had a banquet that night. I taking pictures, and I videotaped the banquet. So I love it.

	W:	You’ve gone into the current schools and given talks recently. We talked about your involvement with young people. I want to know in your opinion what is a difference or differences that you can point out between the type of education that you received at Central Academy, and what young people are receiving today? And I ask that because many people I speak to from your generation tell me that something is missing today that used to exist. I want to know if you might comment on that.

	C:	Well to me, and Ima speak about a couple places that I spoke, seemed like to me the education—back in the day seemed like it was more hardcore, and—not the term they used—but really the teachers push you to learn, to do better, to progress. I went to school in Melrose and I taught—well I showed them. I guess they was studying about photography and this was like maybe the fourth grade, so I went, and I showed them different pictures that I’ve taken and talked about down to the generations the pictures that I’ve taken. And a lot of pictures that I’ve taken which is people, buildings, events and explain to them what I did. Also I





was invited to the Interlochen High School in Interlochen. The lady Ms. Milton, Liz Milton, she teach history, and they were studying about the Vietnam War. And they have very little in the books about the Vietnam War. So I went and I talked, and I guess I don’t want to tell this story before I get to talking about Vietnam unless you want me to talk into it now, but I had to tell them how I lived in Vietnam. If you want me to go through this now or you wanna hold it later?

	W:	It’s your story, sir.



	C:	Okay well anyway, because basically I told them from start to finish which I was in there about six and half months. We flew over there by commercial plane in May of [19]67 and that was the beginning of the monsoon season, which is a rainy season. I mean you can get rained on three or four times before the end of the day. But when I first got there I had to go through a process station which was the fourth division in a place called Pleiku. They kinda told us what was going on out in the field and stuff. And after we was there for a while and got our jungle fatigues, and jungle boots, and all that kind of good stuff, and our weapon—which I had an M-16—they flew us out in the field and we joined another company. This company had got hit pretty hard by the enemy and they didn’t have really enough to maintain so they rebuilt the fourth by adding more troops out there.

	W:	So you were the replacements, but you became a part of that group?



C:  Right. So I was out there in the jungles for probably about six and a half months before I got wounded. Okay, the conditions was not good. We had to sleep a lot of times cold, wet. We didn’t always get a change of clothes when they flew us





clothes out and some hot chow. If your shirt was torn you got shirt, no pants because a lot of times they had a shortage of clothes. We could not always take a bath. If we took a bath it was in streams. They could not fly you water out to take a bath. They could fly you out water so you can fill your canteen. And I never camped out and I wouldn’t camp out now but back when I was in Vietnam a lot of times you smell a little bit uncomfortable because there’s nothing you can do about it. It’s just that was the way of the life in Vietnam. We would get water and we would put water in a steel pot. You know what a steel pot is? That’s the helmet for combat. We would all shave out the same steel pot you trying to save on water. Go ahead.

	W:	You shared these stories with the students? C:	Yeah.

	W:	What was their reaction to you talking about Vietnam? C:	Could I talk a little bit more?

	W:	Yeah, please of course.



	C:	A couple of times—well I’m gonna speak one time that we got in combat and we had a company—we had a squad to go out on an ambush. I get a little emotional when I tell this part. I can make it through it. It was like a squad of about twelve people. Had went out, they send somebody that way, that way the patrol while the company is set up to try to ease out to see what lies in the enemy movement out there. But anyway before this squad got back, they got ambushed; they killed all of them. And our company commander, he had to call artillery in which was pretty close to us, because the company that the squadron was almost back to





the perimeter, but they didn’t quite make it. So, while we was firing up a bunch of ammunition into the woods where the enemy was supposed to be, and the artillery dropping around us pretty close but not on us, the enemy knows the closer they are to us, the safer they are from that artillery. So when things final cooled down one guy—American, our troops—he was going out just to be a listening post at the edge of the wood line, because we had our dead troops there. But then he got ambushed. So we start firing our guns and throwing grenades until finally killed him. So when it finally cooled down they was not firing back at us, and we assumed that either they were gone or they were dead, the enemy. So we had our helicopters call in and we had to load up our dead. We always have gotten our dead out; not under fire. The helicopters come in and land, two of us get our buddy in. We had to stack them on top of each other like they was hogs. But you didn’t feel anything because they was your friends, and you were getting them out to be sent home. That was one incident. Another incident is somebody killed a bunch of—there’s two types of people you fight.

You fight the Vietcong which can use booby traps and all that kind of stuff. We didn’t have to worry about booby traps, pungent pits, and North Vietnamese regiments. Now I was out in the jungle. We fought the regular soldiers, so when you run into them, they are ready to fight. They got lightweight machine guns, they got motors, and they’re expert motormans. But anyway they had killed these Vietnamese, and normally that we don’t bury the enemy, but it was an area that the United States used; a convoy going through. And the dead was there for about a week. Kinda like on the side of the road and in the woodland. Like I said





normally we don’t bury them but we went back. The ones beside the road, a tank, had like a blade it looked like a bulldozer. That scored a deep hole and pushed them—that was by the road. The ones that was in the wood line, we had to take our little trenching tool and dig a hole just deep enough to pull the enemy over in there. And let me back up. When we first got there I mean they was smelly, rotten and stuff and the sergeant says to us “Let’s eat.” I think I could eat—still I think I could eat around just about anything, because I never had smelled a human body before then.

	W:	So they had you all take care of those bodies as for health and safety so you were gonna be in the area you didn’t need to expose to that—

	C:	Well I said a convoy go through that area, so they didn’t wanna have to go through that smelly. So after we did that they flew us back out in the jungles, which we normally worked on the Cambodian border trying to catch them coming across. The terrain over there is very hilly and is valleys, and you don’t want to get down in the valley because they can surround you, and you won’t come out alive. If we got hills and valleys, we go up the hill and travel up top, we don’t never be down intimately.

	W:	And you weren’t supposed to be there either. We weren’t supposed to be in Cambodia correct?

	C:	Well I wasn’t in Cambodia. It was near the border. W:	Okay.

	C:	We didn’t cross, maybe some of the people crossed but we didn’t cross. We worked near the Cambodia border trying to catch them coming across.





	W:	And your enemy would use Cambodia with impunity. They would leave Vietnam, go into Cambodia and then come back into Vietnam.

	C:	Right, right.



	W:	Okay so just the whole area was their playground. They didn’t care.



	C:	Right. And we had some good times over there. There was times that we was in a fire support base which was artilleries, a motor setup to come in for a few days. But most of the time we stayed out in the jungles, we slept in tents. We had air mattresses. And sometimes when we would go out on AOP, which is a listening post, we might go out that night like phone in, go out from the main compound in case the enemy was trying to move at night, but we never did experienced the enemy moving at night.

	W:	You think they were there though?



	C:	Well I don’t think that they would move at night because in the fire support base, they would plot and shoot motors every now and then in different places. The enemy wouldn’t, he wouldn’t be safe because he never knew way around might be dropped in. We never had a combat consultation at night that was always day time. That’s their country, they know their terrain, and we out there chopping through the woods with a machete. I mean in helicopter flying they like to resupply so they kinda know where we at. And maybe I’ll kind of close it out all about Vietnam is when I got wounded which was November the 11th, 1967.

	W:	Veteran’s Day.



	C:	Yeah. They flew us—well they convoyed us so far—and then they flew us out because we’re out in the jungle. You can’t drive anyway. They flew us out in the





jungles. And it was a place called Dak To. The enemy had hit the company so hard out there that they didn’t have enough to stay. And so they flew us out there to kinda like take over that area patrolling. Okay, so we was patrolling through the woods, we go up on this big hill that the United States had had an air strike on. Good thing it was there. So we go up on this hill. We gonna set in for the night. We got our perimeter because it’s a bunk raider. We gonna dig in—we didn’t have time—we gonna dig in, cut trees. We have sand bags in case we have to fire from the bunkers, but we didn’t have time to dig in and fill sand bags before the enemy opened up on us from the bottom of the hill. They was in the wood line. Hey let us walk right by them. Okay, so since we was in the crater sitting up there waiting, just take a break before we dig in, they opened up. We all got in those craters and during that time you don’t stick your head up to see where the enemy is. I mean you pull the pin, he’s at the foot of the hill. There are trees, so they could be behind. You pull the pin and throw the grenade. They say hold it a few second, but I make sure when I pull the pin, you all on your own.

	W:	[Laughter]



C:  So the enemy wouldn’t be throwing it back, but you don’t have to worry when you throw It. When I fired down at the enemy, I would take my M-16 and I would hold it up like this [imitates gun sounds]. You aiming it down there.

W:  So you wouldn’t see, you were just sticking it up over your head out of the top and just firing.

C:  Yeah because if I’d have stuck my head off I might have been headless. You don’t look out there. But we normally didn’t. We called it hung; a couple of





mortars the term is hung. But it was so bad that we had sixty one mortal, which is shoot something about the size of a sixteen ounce Pepsi-Cola bottle. It look like a miniature rocket.

W:   You were trained to do the mortars? That was your job?



C:   That’s what I was trained, but they gave me an M-16 when I got there.



	W:	Okay but if you got mortars, that were your job, you knew how to operate? C:	Right.

	W:	So you must have had a great deal of respect for the enemy’s accuracy with their mortars. You could tell they knew what they were doing by the way they were coming in because of your training?

	C:	Right. We had a machine gun behind the tree so we set this mortar up in this bunk crater, and what it is you drop it down a tube. It’s a piece of pipe about that big, and when it goes down there you can hear the firing pin because it had like a shotgun shell on that little thing; look like a rock. Then it goes up and when it comes down, when it hit that fuse, that’s what I got wounded with. Not that but from the enemy. Then it explodes so steel just go everywhere. And when that round went up it was only going probably about maybe thirty-five feet out. It looked like it was going straight up and coming back down on us, because the tube was kinda like that, but I mean you can try reversing it when it comes down, and you can drop further. They dropped two rounds on us and they were direct hit; a direct hit. Like if this newspaper was the bomb crater, it dropped two rounds, direct hit. My best buddy got blown to pieces. I got wounded here, here, buttocks, thighs, metallics all over. I just knew it was all over because they was





on target and normally we’d have a person out there, know that you’re on target and see left, right, drop whatever. All they had to do was just—the enemy was at the foot of the hill. We couldn’t come out the crater and they could have killed everything that was up there, but God was with us. We lost quite a few. And then later on they brought some ammunition in and it kinda cooled down then. Well before it cooled down it had got so bad that they called—they wouldn’t let the gunships come in which is the helicopter with rockets and machine gun fire.

	W:	Too dangerous for help to come in.



	C:	Right. They wouldn’t let them come in, but they let the jets come in. Thank God for the jets. The jets dropped canisters of napalm which when it hits the ground it’s a big ball of fire. Like Jerry Lewis say “Great Ball of Fire.” So if anything is down there they are cooked. They also dropped cluster bombs, which is little mini bombs, because we was up the hill in the crater down on the ground, but believe me when the jets come they dropped that stuff, we still, I mean none of it affected us, but you still get down. So that night after that the guys that was really messed up real bad, the medevac came in and it was like cut off trees there. So the medevac helicopter would lower a basket for people that couldn’t sit in the swing—when I got out I was in like a swing—and then lower the rope, let the rope up, put you in the helicopter, then fly you down to a tent where they tag you and then it goes to the hospital.

	W:	Your friend who was killed, you saw that? It wasn’t he was wounded and he died later? He was killed right then?

	C:	No, he was blown to pieces then.





	W:	And what was his name?



	C:	His name was DC. And I could vaguely see because when the round went off, you could see like a cloud of dust. I could vaguely see his buttocks. I didn’t know I was hit all where I was hit. Only thing I felt was this knuckle and this shoulder. I didn’t feel this, that or the metallics.

	W:	But you were seriously injured?



	C:	Yeah, but I didn’t know it. It frightened me so, plus I thought it was all over but… W:	Do you remember being lifted up into the helicopter to be evacuated? What was

that like?



	C:	It was a good sign of peace. I was just praying to myself that I hope all the enemy down there is dead and nobody’s gonna shoot me while—which they were dead, dead or either they had backed off. So I was just so glad to get out. So after tagging me and putting me on this plane, this Chinook, we opened up the back doorway to drive a jeep in there, but they had places where you—place you could sit, and also had like where they could put stretchers for guys that was really messed up so bad that they could not sit. They flew us into the hospital in a place called Quy Nhơn. So there they cleaned my wounds out. They didn’t sew me up there, they cleaned my wounds out, and they flew us to Japan but we stopped in the Philippines overnight. And when they cleaned out my wounds in Quy Nhơn in Vietnam they did not numb me enough as the lady Ms. Sandra was speaking about. The doctor’s office and the doctor—the Black lady was in pain and the doctor was not coming. Well they didn’t wait for the numbing medicine to then, just like it should have been. I was hollering and if I could have hit





somebody I would hit somebody. I mean I had torn tissues, so what they were doing, they was cutting the rigid tissue, because I got two big scars up here. So after that and they flew us in the Philippines, and then flew us on into Japan Hospital at Kanazawa. So when they got ready to sew me up I said, “You guys gonna put me into sleep.” I wasn’t going through that a second time. They said “Yeah we’ll put you to sleep.” They hit with something. I felt something cold, and I was out like a light. Then later on this arm got infected. I had wire stitches. Then they had to pull the wire stitches, and I had to shower three or four times because they trying to take care of that. As a matter of fact, when I was in the hospital, that’s when the PTS started. I started having bad nightmares, headaches. But I didn’t tell nobody. Sometimes I would get up and walk or go in the bathroom and sit down. But when I got—well I went to a place to rehab so—

	W:	What was that place?



	C:	It was a physical reconditioning testament in Japan called Tachikawa; the name of the place, the town. So we would do sports like basketball, volleyball. And we trying to build ourselves back up so we can go back over there, and get shot at again. I only had three and a half months to do if I had went back. So what happened every time I played basketball—and if you wanna cut me short—I get to talking, “You can cut me short any time you’re ready to change it on something, because I’m almost at the end of this.” I would hit the volleyball, and it would sprain this hand, because I got hit through this knuckle. What it was it was a little fragment in between, so when I hit it, it would sprain the whole hand. They sent me back to the hospital, and they cut it out the same day that I got there. But





you have to get orders to go from A to B or B to C, so I kinda stayed there a little while. So when I got back and went to doing the same thing—physical PT and stuff—I was reading about how bad it was getting over there. So I started complaining to the doctor. I had to exaggerate my condition. I mean I had pain but I had to exaggerate it worse. So the doctor said to me he said “Well, whether you’re hurting or not, I’m gonna extend your profile and send you back to the states.” If it he had of been a lady I could have jumped up in his arm and kissed him like it didn’t even touch me, because I was afraid if I went back for three and a half months, the way things was going for the United States, that I might of not have made it back. So they extended my profile and sent me to the states.

	W:	And how were you getting this information about the war?



	C:	There was a paper that was telling you about what was going on. Like the Gator paper.

	W:	Stars and Stripes?



	C:	No it was some kind of paper they print over there, and you be reading about the different units that’s been getting in combat and stuff like that. What I was reading, said, “Don’t wanna go back that way.” Now if I had been volunteered I had three years. When I came home I would have had a chance of being sent back, but see I only had nine months when they sent me back.

	W:	Because you were drafted.



	C:	Right. They tried to get me to volunteer. I said “No.” I said to myself, “Grab me, give me two.” I got to Vietnam just as quick, but I wasn’t going to take three.





W:  So let me ask you that original question that I asked when you moved into the Vietnam story. You told the students everything that you’ve told us. What was their reaction?

	C:	They was really puzzled. The looked at me almost like I was a ghost, because they couldn’t believe. They don’t have this kind of information in books. They couldn’t believe what they were hearing and I’m pretty sure they’ve seen—I did good today—my emotion was not as good then, but I got it together. But they could see that I must have had a very bad traumatic experience. But I was able, and I will continue as long as I’m able if somebody ask me to speak, and tell what went down, because a lot of time what you see on TV is not what happened over there. A lot of stuff you see is just a dramatization and they hype it up. And some in real life, over there a lot of the time, some things did happen. And a guy might have ran to get his buddy in a hail of fire, might wonder when you settle down, “You know I could have got killed” but you don’t be thinking about that at the time. I never had the opportunity to do that. We was always together. But I’m pretty sure if something had of happened, I probably would have said “I’m going to drag my buddy on end.” I’d probably been on the ground dragging him, but you know.

	W:	Let me ask you one more Vietnam question as it relates to the students. The country today can be argued is much different in terms of how people look at, and respond to social issues than they did in the late 1960s. The late 1960s there was the Vietnam War, there was the movement, there was King, there was Johnson not running for election. People would go into the streets and March and





protest on social issues where that doesn’t happen today. There’s the internet, people are satisfied with petitions and just sit and watch, and music—just like it was before, but a little bit different. Do you think that that difference has something to do with the reaction that you got from the students, or do you think there’s something else at play here?

	C:	It’s kind of hard to say, because these students are like maybe tenth graders.



And the younger group I talk to they was like third or fourth graders. I don’t really know. I don’t really know how to answer that.

	W:	Okay well I’d like to ask you more about your education when you came back from Vietnam, because we were gonna talk about the Santa Fe college.

	C:	Right.



	W:	But since it’s been an hour, may I suggest maybe we take a five minute break?



Let everybody go to the restroom, whatever they need to do, and then come back and do that part?

	C:	Okay.



	W:	So we’ll take a five-ish minute break. [Break in Recording]

	C:	Right. I heard you over there. U:	[Laughter]

	C:	I mean I felt you, but I didn’t even look your way. I can be strong for another veterans day. This happens. A problem I can be real strong.

	U:	I thought I saw you on the DMZ. C:	Yeah.





	U:	Cambodia? Came abroad? I saw him on the DMZ. They couldn’t cross over.



	W:	Alright we’re returning to our interview with Mr. Cornelius Clayton on September 9th, 2011 after a brief interlude, and we are ready to move from Vietnam, and talk about what happened when you got home; your career opportunities and your continuing education. I’ll leave it to you to tell us what happened when you got back.

	C:	Okay. Just before when I got back I was stationed up at Fort Benning, Georgia which I had nine months to do before I finished my two year term. And at that time I think—well when Dr. Martin Luther King got killed they had a riot up in DC, so we had to go up there because they was burning and looting. But by the time we got there, they didn’t calm down, and I’m saying to myself, “Now I’ve been to war, and I’m coming back for this kind of stuff.” But while we was up there everything got under control and we came back. So my last nine months in the military was great. We used to go to the field, and set up the fire rounds for OCS students. So I enjoyed my last nine months. About four months before I got out, that’s when the PTS started kicking in. That wasn’t so good; the crawling sensation in my head. I was already having headaches, nightmares, and was discharged that way. So when I came out I had been working at Shands, so I went back there. Early years from [19]63 to [19]66 I worked in dietary, and I worked in housekeeping before I got drafted. So when I came back, I went to work in sterile supply, sterilizing instruments and wrapping sterile stuff.

	W:	Was it the same people there when you got back were there when you left and gone to Vietnam?





C:  Well I didn’t work in that department. I worked in housekeeping, but those same people were still there. The dietary and housekeeping. I transferred from dietary to housekeeping.

	W:	Was that a voluntary transfer? You wanted something new or they— C:	Yeah I wanted something new

	W:	Just said, “This is what we have available for you”? C:	No, I wanted something.

	W:	Okay.



	C:	So I could have went back where I was, but I wanted to advance. So I got a job in sterile supply which was upgrade. And I stayed there for a while and these two departments, pharmacy and sterile supply were located—it’s like in the same building, same area. So an opening came in pharmacy as a pharmacy technician. The technician had got promoted to another position, so I‘d taken that job, and learned to be a technician; dispensing medication, stocking the floors, all the supplies, prepacking medication until 1972. I’d hurt my back and I got kicked out of my job—wrongly kicked out of my job by my White supervisor.

	W:	What was his name? C:	It was her.

	W:	What was her name?



C:  Her name was Reba Taylor. She tried to get me to volunteer to go to school, but I was having my PTS, and I didn’t think that I could just drop my job and be able to go to school not knowing what changes it might put me through. So I stayed,





contact the lawyer told him what was happening so he said, “Well we don’t have anything to go on. You just stay there and do life duty.”

	W:	The Gainesville attorney? C:	Yes.

	W:	Do you recall the attorney’s name?



	C:	His name was Mr. William Burwell. He’s deceased now. He was a kidney patient for a long time, but he still worked a long time and taking dialysis treatments. But anyway, so when they kicked me out of my job then he could proceed to do something.

	W:	So you knew that the strategy was—you knew it was coming. They were actually about to get you. You weren’t paranoid. They were out to get you?

	C:	Right.



	W:	And his thing was all, “When they actually do fire you then we’ll do something about it?”

	C:	Right right.



	W:	Wow how do you feel about that knowing that that was the only way you can-



	C:	Well, it was walking a straight line knowing that my boss had got a book on disciplinary action handbook of the University of Florida; tried to see what she could write me up. She did a few times, but it wasn’t all legal what she wrote. She tried to make it look like I had excessive absenteeism. I mean if you’re called on jury duty you got to go. She put that on there, and other stuff. She was trying to build up a bad record. So I really had to watch everything what I was doing. And while I was working there I always got—I’ll stand in evaluation. And the way





people try to hold you back from your raise and what, she would say, “Well, I can’t give you all seven because,” whatever the situation is. But, she could say before then, “You’re doing a great job.” And when she goes on vacation she don’t have to worry about me doing my job, but thank God that’s not the way it is now.

	W:	One thing probably people still talk about, that concept of being “Brown-filed” where if you have a supervisor who’s not favorable towards you, they keep you from getting the highest recommendation so they can keep you from moving forward, that’s still a tactic that people talk about today though.

	C:	Right, and then what really was the driving force with her—there was a program called Main Power. They had trained some people to be a pharmacy technician in hopes of hiring them, because they had free labor, and they had trained this young man. So she tried to boot me out softly by telling me, “You can go to school, you can go on the GI bill.” I said, “But I don’t know whether I could take it or not.” I mean I knew what I was going through.

	W:	She was trying to force you to take an option that you had, but you didn’t want to take that option.

	C:	Right. Maybe go out there part-time and see how it goes, but not turn my job loose, because once you turn it loose they don’t have to take you back and it was because of a back problem. First thing they would say, “You got a back problem.” And I could do my job, but it was just wanting to get rid of me. So anyway they sent me, I was a young man, the doctor sent me—I mean the lawyer sent me to a doctor. He evaluated me, and wrote up a report. The doctor gave her that position like an out of court deal thing. And I was young and they were looking at





maybe ten percent on my back. They got about ten thousand dollars. I got about eight. The lawyer got almost two thousand dollars and the doctor for giving the deposition. But, after that is when I started going to Santa Fe, in 1972.

	W:	Okay now why Santa Fe College? Why was that the place that you thought you would—was it Santa Fe Junior College at that time?

	C:	Santa Fe Junior College out on 39th and 83rd.



	W:	So why did you go there? GI bill you could have gone anywhere. C:	Well—what did you say?

	W:	GI bill you could have gone anywhere.



	C:	But I didn’t think that I was UF material, and I didn’t want to crush it so I had been out of school for a long time so I needed to gradually. Because that was a big transition to try to get into. The math and stuff that I had in high school was different from today. So, me being able to progress, I needed to go in an institution that wasn’t speedy.

	W:	Okay well let me ask you this then. I mentioned before about the difference of society, with the movement and everything in the late [19]60s. Early [19]70s the movement was still going on.

	C:	Right.



	W:	What was Santa Fe Junior College like? What was the atmosphere like going to school there in the early 1970s?

	C:	Okay, because I went at night and most people go at night. They’re working, older people and young people too, and I didn’t like the pressure of studying every day. With what I was going through I didn’t need my head in the book five





days a week. Three days a week I go to school, and put my books down and just before it’s time to go back then get back into it. I was going through the headaches, and the post-traumatic stress stuff that I didn’t need to be pressured.

	W:	You weren’t going for the environment and the protest and all that stuff? C:	No no no.

	W:	You were trying to get your job done. C:	Right.

	W:	What you needed to do.



	C:	And the classes that I went to, I enjoyed all the classes. W:	What kind of classes did you take?

	C:	They required like English and Math, and I think one of the electives was literature. I didn’t like literature. I had humanities. Humanities was great. I had art. I had family and marriage, and it was only because the instructor who taught humanities was a great teacher. [Laughter] I didn’t really wanna know about parents, family and marriage. And I had anthropology! I enjoyed it. I enjoyed most of my classes.

	W:	Can you recall and teacher that sticks out in your mind today that you had at that time who impressed you at that time? You really enjoyed it because of them not just because of the subject?

	C:	I can’t think of his name, but the first day of class we were all sitting—I forgot what class. I think it’s a behavior. We all sitting in the classroom waiting on the instructor to come. Some sitting in the seat, and some are sitting around the floor. And all of a sudden this guy he gets up; long haired hippie, hippie like all





the way jeans. Not dirty—just hippie looking. Ph.D. but he a great educator. I enjoyed him. You know some classes you don’t mind if you miss? But his class was a class that you didn’t want to miss. The guy had a superego, and he was heavy in the yoga. I see him on campus one day. He laying out there with his head on the ground, and the stomach up like this. He was heavy into that. So I really enjoyed and I’ll say, a lot of time when some bad things happen in your life or a bad thing happens, some good things come out, because if I hadn’t got kicked out of my job in [19]72 I never would have went to college. I didn’t have the time—I mean I had the time. I was young, I was having a good time. I had no time for that. The GI bill was there, but when that happened I guess it opened my eyes. So, I really didn’t know what I wanted to do, so I started taking the basics. I time rolled around, I picked up my AA. I really didn’t know what I wanted to do so threw some counseling. They figured, “Well since you got a head pain and you got a back pain the best thing to go in management.” Well, that’s a lot of stress. So I started working on a degree in management, and I guess I got about half of the required hours for that, but my nerves was picking up. So my psychiatrist, I told her about it, she say, “I think you need to come out for a while.” I said, “Well, that was part of my income.” I was getting my compensation from the VA then my GI bill, and that was my income.

	W:	So if you didn’t go to school, you didn’t get your check?



	C:	Well I didn’t get the GI bill, but I got my check from my compensation for getting money while I was getting my forty percent during the time. So I said, “Well, when my time run out, I’ll have to come out.” And so I went on until it was just





about out, but my nerves was getting. And she knew I needed to pull out, because things was getting a little bit crazy. But I did pick up me a associates degree, and I did pick up half the requirements in management.

	W:	So you have a very positive reflection of your experiences at Santa Fe Junior College. It was a good thing.

	C:	It was a good thing. That if something bad hadn’t had happened, no doubt I never would have made it there.

	W:	Mr. Cornelius Clayton I want to thank you so much for speaking with me today, and doing a second interview.

	C:	It’s been enjoyable.



	W:	I look forward to doing other interviews with you in the future, but you’re always so insightful. On behalf of the Sam Proctor Oral History Program, I would like to thank you again for participating, and then offer you the opportunity for final privilege. At the conclusion of the interviews that I do I like to let the person who was so gracious to come in, have any final thoughts. So, this will be the last time I speak. I open it to you to speak for as long as you care to. To make any comments, and when your comments conclude, that’ll be the official end of our interview with again our thanks.

	C:	Okay. I would make it very brief. Thank you for inviting me for a second interview.



I’ve enjoyed everywhere I been that you have been, and the invites with Ms. Sandra Parks, and the workshop. And my brother over here, and my sister over here all the way from—give me a better shake than that girl okay. [Laughter] All





the way from Mississippi—which I look at Mississippi and it’s a good thing. And your friend—what’s the name?

	D:	Lisa Dear.



	C:	Lisa Dear? Oh my dear, Lisa Dear. Okay. I enjoyed everything, and everybody, and if I talk too much I’m sorry it’s just that way. I’m closing out now.

[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Sandra Romero, January 5, 2016 Audit-edited by:	Jennifer Romero, May 2, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 20, 2019