AAHP 443; Barber; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 443 Prevell Carner Barber African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Vickie Oldham on August 10, 2015 44 minutes | 22 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Prevell Carner Barber recalls working at her uncle’s grocery store, Carner’s Grocery Store. She reminisces on her time in Florida A & M University and University of Chicago, and various teaching jobs in Archer, Booker Elementary, and Fruitvale. She discusses the differences in teaching Black and White students, followed by family life and church life. Barber also offers insight on the experience of being part of the group that integrated the beaches in Newtown and traveling to Tampa by ferry for classroom materials.



Keywords: [African American History; Education; Newtown; Sarasota; Integration]



Standards:

	SS.912.A.2.5 Jim Crow laws

	SS.912.A.6.15 Examine key events and peoples in Florida history as they relate to United States history.

	SS.912.A.7.5 Civil rights tactics

	SS.912.A.7.5 Social activism

	SS.912.C.2.9 Identify the expansion of civil rights and liberties by examining the principles contained in primary documents.



























For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 443 (Newtown Oral History Project) Interviewee: Prevell Carner Barber Interviewer: Vickie Oldham

Date: August 10, 2015



	O:	Well Mrs. Barber it is great to see you again. B:	Nice seeing you.

	O:	I haven't seen you in so long and let me tell you I remember the debutante cotillion ball that you used to plan for all of the young ladies as we were her growing up. Well we'll talk about that a little bit too later on. But tell me, where you born and reared in Sarasota?

	B:	No. I was born in Georgia. O:	Do you remember the city?

	B:	Yes, it was a little country town Sandersville.



	O:	Sandersville. I think they make chicken there or they manufacture– B:	Right.

	O:	Got it. Okay what year were you born? B:	1921.

	O:	1921. And who were your parents?



	B:	My mama was named Annie Lee. That's all I remember and she passed when I was three years old and she said for my aunt, for her sister to have me. And I stayed with my grandmother until my auntie got married. And when my auntie got married, she came to Georgia in got me and brought me to Florida.

	O:	Did she bring you to Sarasota?



	B:	Well I came to Sarasota and stayed with my grandmother until my aunt got married.

	O:	Okay and then how did you get back to Sarasota?





	B:	Well my uncle was running the grocery store and I would come during the summer and spend the time there.

	O:	Okay now tell me, you have some early remembrances of working in that grocery store. Tell me the name of that grocery store and where it was located and what kinds of things you had inside that store.

	B:	Well in the grocery store we had the meat counter and all kinds of canned goods. O:	And cookies.

	B:	Oh and cookies. The cookies was up near the front. That's what I first started selling, cookies.

	O:	How much did you sell the cookies for? B:	The cookies was one cent, a penny.

	O:	Okay now tell me the story that you shared about those cookies being your favorite kind of cookie so you would eat more. Tell me more

	B:	They was oatmeal cookies and finally I ate more than I sold. O:	I see. Now the name of grocery store was what?

	B:	Carner's grocery store.



	O:	Carner's grocery, where was it located on Twenty-seventh Street? Was Twenty- seventh Street named "Twenty-seventh Street" back in this time period, in the [19]20s?

	B:	No, it's Newtown but it wasn't called a street. Later on... O:	So where was it on that street on MLK? Was it at the– B:	It was at the corner of MLK and Persian Avenue.

	O:	And the structure stands today?





	B:	Right.



	O:	It looks like it's two stories. B:	It is.

	O:	It was a two-story grocery store?



	B:	No, no. It was one-story and later on they built two-story and the upstairs was where people lived.

	O:	Okay so your uncle rented it out? B:	Right.

	O:	Okay, what where some of the other stores that were around Carner's grocery store?

	B:	At that time it wasn't another store. It was one further down called "Winn's Grocery Store." It was down further. It was near Link Avenue.

	O:	Links. I see. So now was Eddy's food stand there yet when Carner's was there? B:	No, it came later.

	O:	Were there any other businesses around the store?



	B:	Well later on. Eddy's fruit stand had one right across from ours.



	O:	Was that restaurant right across the street? What was right across the street?



Anything?



	B:	Later on the Latsomes had like a little cafe there.



	O:	So did you finally move to Sarasota full-time after coming for the summers to work in his grocery store?

	B:	Yeah I didn't come here full-time until after I had finished high school. I came and worked for a while and then I went to college.





	O:	Where did you got to college? B:	Florida A & M.

O:  Okay Mrs. Smith said that she went to Bethune-Cookman College. So these were the two colleges where African Americans were going to be educated. Florida A & M. So what did you study at Florida A & M University.

B:  Well I majored in Elementary Education and minored in History. O:  Why did you choose Elementary Education and History?

	B:	Well at that time. That was the only thing that the Black girls could do, other than working in somebody's house.

	O:	So you enjoyed your time at Florida A & M? You want to talk about studying at Florida A & M? Did you see anybody else you knew?

	B:	Yes. Later on the Atkins girls. We became roommates, Vivian Atkins.



	O:	I remember that name. So you stayed there how many years at Florida A & M?



	B:	I did two years and I taught a little while and then I went back to get the other two years.

	O:	Okay did you teach in Sarasota?



	B:	No, I taught in a little county called Archer, Florida but I didn't stay there long– O:	I know Archer, near Gainesville. Certainly. Okay was it like a little internship?

	B:	No, I actually was hired as a second grade teacher there and only had two years.



	O:	You must have been pretty smart to be hired just after two years of college. Okay so you went back to Florida A & M, graduated, got your four-year degree, then what happened?

	B:	Well later on I went and got my Master's–





	O:	At Florida A & M?



	B:	No, no at the University of Chicago.



	O:	Oh wow. So you actually studied in Chicago then. You left here. B:	Uh-hm.

	O:	Right after Florida A & M?



	B:	No, no it was many years between it because it was lady in the county who taught at the University of Florida and she said "why don't you go?" I said, "no, no I can't go to one of them big schools." So she wrote the application for me and took it with her because she would teach up there during the summer. And that's how I entered because I hadn't had no idea of going that far away.

	O:	Oh my goodness. And you got accepted. What'd you think when you got accepted?

	B:	Well I don't know. I didn't that I was gonna make it but I did.



	O:	But you did. So you moved away from where and went to Chicago? B:	From Sarasota to Chicago.

	O:	All righty but did you teach when you graduated from Florida A and M? You came to Sarasota and stayed and taught here.

	B:	Right,



	O:	Where did you teach?



	B:	Well my first job was at Booker Elementary.



	O:	Booker Elementary. All right and you were teaching what grade? B:	Second grade.

	O:	Second grade. Do you remember some of your fellow teachers at that time?





	B:	Well...no. The only thing, Ms. Turner. Rosa Turner.



	O:	Rosa Turner. Okay was Mrs. Smith there when you were there? B:	Yes.

	O:	And when you're out and about in the community, do you remember some of your students who are adults now? Was Fred Atkins one of your students? Or Willie Shaw?

	B:	Not Fred Atkins. Willie Shaw...I taught some Shaws.



	O:	I can understand. So what was teaching like at Booker?



	B:	Well at first it was kinda hard because everything you got to work with, you had to buy.

	O:	Really.



[Recording paused to ask to turn down the volume. The background is too noisy.]



	O:	So Mrs. Barber we were talking about working at Booker and you said you had to buy the supplies that you needed? What kind of supplies did you have to buy?

	B:	I bought the chalk to write on the board, all the construction paper. O:	For the students?

	B:	Yeah.



	O:	So did teachers normally do that?



	B:	No, the county was supposed to do that but at that time they didn't. O:	Why?

B:  Well we was supposed to collect, look like it was $3 from each student to help buy the supplies. And times was so tight, out of thirty something children, you might have three children that paid their $3. They couldn't afford it.





	O:	So the teachers had to come out of their pockets? B:	Right.

	O:	I see, so what was it like teaching the kids? Did you enjoy teaching? B:	Oh yeah they were so fascinated.

	O:	What did you enjoy most?



	B:	Well I just enjoyed the children.



	O:	Really would they say fascinating things and ask you a lot of different questions. B:	Oh yes goodness.

	O:	Describe for me the school. How many? Was it a lot of kinds? Was it a few kids?



It was only Black kids?



	B:	Right it was only Black. And at that time the parents would work here part of the season and then they would go away and come back.

	O:	So you had kids coming and going out of town? B:	Right.

	O:	Where did they go?



	B:	Celery was prevalent then. The parents worked in the celery and then they'd go somewhere else do other kind of work and then they'd come back.

	O:	Did you always have kids? Or were there times when you didn't have a class? B:	Oh no. You'd always have some because some parents never left.

	O:	And the principal at that time, who was your principal?



	B:	Well the first actually principal...it wasn't a principal, she was just over it. It was a lady.

	O:	She was over Booker school?





	B:	Um-hm.



	O:	Okay if you can't remember it, I'll find it. Mrs. Smith was telling me it was Roland Rogers when she was teaching at Booker.

	B:	Roland Rogers was the first actually principal but this lady was over the schooling.

	O:	Okay was she an African American? B:	Yes.

	O:	She was? Okay. And what was the day like? How did you start the day? What time did you start the day and end the day?

	B:	We started at 7:30 and went to 4:00. It was a long day.



	O:	I'll say, oh my gosh. So what was the day like? What would you do 7:30? Take us through a day.

	B:	Well we'd always have devotion and salute the flag and pray. O:	Oh you could pray in schools then?

	B:	Yeah.



	O:	And then what?



	B:	And then we'd start with the activities.



	O:	What would you do first? Math or reading...? B:	Well usually we start with reading.

	O:	Okay and then lunch time. Did you have lunch with the kids in your classroom or did you go to a large cafeteria?

	B:	Well at first the only they had was what the children brought from home. At first they didn't have a cafeteria, only what the children brought from home.





O:

Do you remember what they brought from home? Some of the snacks or



whatever that they ate?

B:

Usually it was a sandwich and some celery sticks.

O:

What about the facility? Mrs. Smith was saying that she came and it was the



USO because they hadn’t moved the classes yet from Overtown.

B:

Right.

O:

You were in the USO too?

B:

No.

O:

They had moved the classrooms to the Booker campus?

B:

Right.

O:

Okay what about the end of the day? What was the end of the day like?

B:

Well the end of the day, we did some kind of activities like volleyball.

O:

Or kickball–

B:

Yeah.

O:

A lot of kickball. I remember that.

B:

Well I wasn't good at kicking so I didn't do that.

O:

Did the teachers play with the kids then?

B:

Oh yeah.

O:

How old were you during this first job?

B:

I was twenty something.

O:

What did you do for fun? Like after you finished teaching? Did you socialize at all



in the community?

B:

Most of the time I went back and worked in the store.





	O:	Everyday?



	B:	Um-hm.



	O:	How much money did you make as a teacher? Do you remember?



	B:	Oh my first paycheck was...it wasn't a hundred dollars. It looked like it was eighty something.

	O:	And that was enough to last for a month?



	B:	Well it had to last you. You didn't have nothing else.



	O:	Okay and you probably one of the high earners. Teachers were very respected in the Newtown community right?

	B:	Mm-hm.



	O:	Did you make any money from the Carner grocery store too?



	B:	No, I that was my uncle's store. I just worked there–I got my food from there. O:	Did you live on your own or with somebody?

	B:	Well I lived there with my grandmother until my aunt got married and then she took me and she moved to Marion County.

	O:	Did she take you away from Sarasota? B:	Yeah.

	O:	Okay, now this University of Chicago experience, I wanted to talk about that too.



So what was it like living in Chicago and going to college there?



	B:	Well I mean. I was kind of nervous over it. So I have a very kind of–I guess we say– she was over the Elementary department and she took me under her arms.

	O:	Did she? What were you nervous about?





	B:	I was in the class with Whites and I just thought they knew more than I did. And she said, "You can make it." And she sheltered me, then I met a lady from Atlanta University. She said, "You can make it," because the course we taking now, she said, "I teach this same course at Atlanta University." And she said, “I only made a 'B'.” So she said “the best thing you can do is make a 'C'.”

	O:	And did you do it? B:	Yes. [Laughter]

	O:	All right and so how long did you stay at the University of Chicago?



	B:	Well the longest I stayed–I'd teach in the winter and go in the summer. O:	I see, so you never did experience those bitter winters in Chicago?

	B:	No, no.



	O:	So you eventually finished. How long did it take you to finish? B:	It took me about six years just going in the summer.

	O:	And that earned your Master's? B:	Uh-huh.

	O:	All right so now with your Master's degree, what kind of job did you come back to Sarasota to get?

	B:	Well I still came back–



	O:	Oh all the while, yes I see. Did you get promoted with that Master's? B:	Well, I developed a reading program for Booker schools.

	O:	To teach kids how to read.



	B:	And I don't know what happened to it. I compiled and I had a lot of help from the teachers working with me and I don't know if that material got away from me.





	O:	And did you see the benefits of your work? It really helped the students learn how to read?

	B:	Oh yes.



[Interrupted by a phone call]



	O:	Okay so Mrs. Barber, we were talking about your reading program and it was helping Black students learn how to read, very good. Now from Booker school where did you go to teacher?

	B:	I went to Fruitvale.



	O:	You were working with White students now. Were there any differences?



	B:	Well some of them, they didn't know how to take me and I had to warm up to them.

	O:	What do you mean? Tell a story about this.



	B:	Well they want to call me some names. I said we don't use that name. O:	Would it be the "N word"?

	B:	Yeah, Nigger.



	O:	Oh my goodness, little kids?



	B:	Yeah, that's what they heard at home.



	O:	And so you would teach them how to not use that word. B:	Right.

	O:	I see, would they be open to learn what you were teaching after a while? B:	Um-hm.

	O:	How long did you stay there? B:	Seven or eight years.





	O:	Oh wow, okay, then after leaving there where did you go? B:	They transferred me to Tuttle Elementary.

	O:	And what was that experience like?



	B:	Well at that time, I had received my Master's degree and that meant the government was paying my salary. So they put me with the very small children.

	O:	Did you make a little bit more money? B:	Sure.

	O:	Now what were you doing for fun besides working all these years? And working at the grocery store, did you meet a man and marry him and have any kids or what?

	B:	Well eventually I did because we had the sub-post office was a part of the grocery store.

	O:	And did you work there in the post office? B:	Right.

	O:	Did you meet your husband there?



	B:	Right he came in to get his mail and he kept coming back. [Laughter]



	O:	How did that happen? I mean you'd have some conversations with this man of did he talk to you more? Or did you talk to him more? How did you all get together?

	B:	Well he went to the army or somewhere and for years we lost connection and then finally he came back.

	O:	And you married? How many children did you have? B:	None.





O:



B:



O:

You didn't have any children? We adopted.

How did you adopt? Rosa is her name?

B:

Right. Uh-huh.

O:

Through an agency or somebody's family? How did you do that?

B:

Through an agency.

O:

Okay and what about church in the community? You attended church?

B:

Right.

O:

Where?

B:

Greater Hurst Chapel A.M.E.

O:

Why did you choose Hurst Chapel?

B:

Well, I don't know. Somebody invited me there. In fact my uncle's wife, she



belonged to Methodist church but at the time she went to Payne Chapel and I



would go to Hurst Chapel for Sunday school. And that's the way-

O:

And you eventually started going to Hurst Chapel why? Because you liked it or?

B:

Well I could walk there, but I couldn't walk to Payne Chapel. It was nearer.

O:

Oh okay and Payne Chapel was where? Overtown?

B:

It was Overtown. A two-story building.

O:

How did people get around? You're saying you walked to church. Did you walk to



work too?

B:

Yes.

O:

You walked to work? How did people get around back in that time?





	B:	Well eventually there was a cab. Ms. Mary Emma Jones had a cab and then later on two guys had cabs.

	O:	What about cars?



	B:	Well you could count the cars in Newtown. You could count the cars that Black people had at one time.

	O:	So not too many people had a car. B:	Unh-uh.

	O:	Do you remember who had cars?



	B:	Well the Holtons had a car because there had a funeral home. And Ms. Mary Emma had a car. And my had first a truck and then later on he had car.

	O:	Wow so that's just about three cars.



	B:	Uh-huh. You could count the Blacks who had a car.



	O:	How about the beach, could you go to the beach? Did you go to the beach at that time?

	B:	No you couldn't go to the beach. O:	Why?

	B:	Well that was for the other people, the Whites. O:	Did you want to go to the beach?

	B:	You was afraid to go.



	O:	What were you afraid of?



	B:	You was afraid they was gonna drown you out there.



	O:	Did you hear about some drowns that occurred? I know Mr. Humphrey's came along later to integrate the beaches.





	B:	Right. I was with that group.



	O:	You were with the group that integrated the beaches? Oh tell me about that story please.

	B:	Well we went out there.



	O:	So I read that you were not allowed and then you organized a group in one car to go and use the beach. Were you in that one car?

	B:	Um-hm.



	O:	That first car that went out there to integrate the beaches, you were in it. B:	Um-hm.

	O:	Who else was in the car?



	B:	Ms. [Alice] Swaris and Mr. Humphrey and myself and it look like her brother-in- law from Key West was in it because he spoke Spanish.

	O:	Okay now who's car was it that you all took? B:	It had to be Mr. Humphrey's car.

	O:	Okay why did you all decide to go? Were you afraid? B:	Yes, we were afraid.

	O:	But you went anyway because why?



	B:	Well they said God made the water. It wasn't made by man. So it should be exposed to everybody.

	O:	And describe what happened when you went to the beach. Which beach did you go to, Lido Beach or Siesta?

	B:	I believe it was Lido Beach.



	O:	So you drove in the car with the group and you parked and what happened?





B:



O:

Well we were approached and called all kinds of names.



In the parking lot?

B:

Um-hm.

O:

Did you get out of the car?

B:

Yeah.

O:

So you got out of the car and then what, walked to the beach?

B:

Right.

O:

Did you get in?

B:

Yeah.

O:

You did stick your feet in the water?

B:

Um-hm.

O:

Tell me more about what happened that day. And what day was it? Was it a



Sunday or a Saturday?

B:

No.

O:

It was a weekday.

B:

Mhm-hm.

O:

So just kinda describe what happened when you went to the beach.

B:

Well most of it was just name calling.

O:

How long did you stay that day?

B:

We didn't stay too long.

O:

Maybe an hour?

B:

I don't believe we stayed that long.

O:

So everybody got into the water?





	B:	Some of them.



	O:	You were one that got into the water? B:	Enough under my knees.

	O:	And then you got into the car and left? B:	Um-hm.

	O:	Can you describe, were there Whites standing at the shore while you were getting into the water?

	B:	Mhm-hm.



	O:	And that's where the name calling happened? B:	Mhm-hm.

	O:	And what did it feel like when you were hearing all these names being called of you? Were they using the N-word?

	B:	Oh yeah.



	O:	How was that? How did that feel?



	B:	I had heard it so much, it didn't bother me.



	O:	Then you stayed for less than an hour and then left. So then what happened after that? How did you keep organizing? Because I understand more people started going to the beach with you, explain how that went.

	B:	Well then the others started going.



	O:	More cars of people. Did you go back? B:	Yes. I didn't go back for a long time.

	O:	Why?



	B:	I was afraid.





	O:	You didn't want to hear those names continue to be hurled at you. B:	Mhm-hm.

	O:	I see, so eventually I understand from my reading that there were many conversations back and forth about whether the beaches were going to be integrated but the Black community just kept pushing and pushing. You were a part of that? And then the leaders said, "Well we'll build the community a pool." Y'all weren't happy with just the pool. Why?

	B:	Well see God had made all that water.



	O:	All right and so you wanted to be able to enjoy it. Absolutely. And then I read that at first, you were pushing for just a Negro beach. A spot designated for Negroes. And then after getting the NAACP involved from Tampa, they said you can have access to the entire beach, anywhere on the beach that you want to. Not just a part of the beach. You remember that?

	B:	Yeah.



	O:	How did it make you feel when it was integrated and that you could go? B:	Well I was so busy that I didn't have much time to go.

	O:	What were you busy doing?



	B:	Well working in the store, working in the church, and teaching. I didn't have much free-time.

	O:	Well I'll tell you what Mrs. Barber, we're really so appreciative that you were in that first car that went. And sacrificed your life and took all of those nasty words, you endured that to enable subsequent generations of African American people to enjoy the beaches in Sarasota. We really really appreciate you for that effort.





Did you get involved with any other civil rights moves in Sarasota, say the move to integrate the schools? Were you involved with any of that?

B:   No.



O:  You were busy? B:  Right.

O:  Busy with your life and teaching and working in the store. What else would you like to add about what Newtown looked like back then? What did Newtown look like back then? Were there many houses?

B:  No from Persian to 301, my uncle, he owned most of that property. O:   Okay now what was on it? Was it just vacant land?

B:  No it was some little houses. I say gunshot houses. They call them "The Carner's Quarters."

O:  He rented to residents? B:  Right.

	O:	Anything that you'd like to say to this Newtown community about how close you were in that Newtown community early on in the [19]20s and [19]30s and [19]40s? There was a closeness. Talk to me more about that.

	B:	Well we had to bond together because we all, and it came about, we want certain things because we voted. And then after a while we got into the voting and if we came through such and such a thing, we won't vote for you.

	O:	So you used the power of the vote? Would you encourage more young people to use their power to vote?

	B:	Right.





	O:	Did you have to go to Tampa on a ferry for some goods? Were you around? B:	Yes, we used to have to catch the ferry to get to Tampa.

	O:	Why?



	B:	Well it was a long ways to go, so the ferry was a shorter way. O:	I see and what did you buy in Tampa, clothes?

	B:	Well Ms. Smith and I used to go to Tampa. We bought a lot of the stuff we used in the classroom and we had to go to Tampa for that because they didn't have nothing in Sarasota. All you could buy was paper and pencil and maybe a little construction paper and you couldn't get a whole stack, you bought it by the sheets.

	O:	You could buy them in bulk in Tampa. B:	Right.

	O:	Well as I understand it too from Mrs. Atkins, Blacks weren't allowed in certain stores in downtown so you had to take a ferry to Tampa. Is that right?

	B:	Right.



	O:	How much did the ferry cost?



	B:	Look like it was two dollars or three dollars, something like that. O:	Where did it leave from? Where did you go meet the ferry?

	B:	Well it was somewhere between Palmetto and Bradenton, somewhere in that area.

	O:	You had to go that far. How did you get there?



	B:	Well we had one or two old piece of cars. [Laughter]





	O:	Boy this has been such an enlightening conversation Mrs. Barber. Any remembrances that you would like to add? Any memories, any stories that you'd like to talk about, about the friends that you met in Newtown or just being in Newtown? And how old are you today?

	B:	August the third, I was ninety-four and I told them, I'm shooting for a hundred. [Laughter]

	O:	Yeah. I'm supporting you in that. A hundred, you think you can make it? B:	I don't know, all I want to do now is eat and sleep.

	O:	What do you enjoy eating most?



	B:	I like sweets and I'm not supposed to have it. I just crave it. O:	Who bakes for you now?

	B:	Well my daughter does a little and when my husband was living, he was a chef cook. So I had plenty good food.

	O:	Okay where was he a chef at?



	B:	Last job he had was at Bradenton Country Club.



	O:	Well thank you so much. I think that you have enlightened us so much and we appreciate you and your sacrifices that you made to certainly enable us to enjoy the beach. Thank you.

[End of Interview]





	Final edit by:	Sandra Romero, November 5, 2020