AAHP 018; Hayes; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 018 Virgil Hayes

African American History Project (AAHP) Interview conducted by Marna Weston on March 7, 2010

24 minutes | 14 pages



Abstract: Raised in Sanford, Florida, Virgil Hayes discusses some of his experiences in the education system before moving into his successes in speech and debate tournaments in high school, at Seminole Community College, and eventually at Florida State University. His achievements include winning five state titles on a two-year circuit. He reflects on the challenges that he faced in forensics and what it took for him to succeed, and his family’s support. Mr. Hayes also discusses the personal meaning of a statue on Florida State’s campus; titled “Integration,” the statue depicts several of the African American ‘firsts’ at Florida State, and he relates to the statue in terms of its meaning as a strong statement about the institution that houses it.



Keywords: [African American History; Florida State University; Speech and Debate; Integration; Monuments]













































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 018

Interviewee: Virgil Hayes Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: March 7, 2010



	W:	Okay, you can just speak freely into the air and we’re going to catch it. This is Marna Weston for the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program at the University of Florida on March 7, 2010 on the campus of Florida State University with Mr. Virgil Hayes, a student at Florida State University. Virgil, thank you very much for participating in this interview.

	H:	Thank you.



	W:	Would you please spell your name?



	H:	Yes. V-I-R-G-I-L, Virgil. Lee, L-E-E. Hayes, H-A-Y-E-S. Junior. W:	Okay, and what’s your date of birth?

	H:	August 30, 1987.



	W:	And what was your place of birth? H:	Orlando, Florida.

	W:	So you’re a Floridian. H:	Yes, born and raised.

	W:	Okay. Tell me a little bit about your hometown, where you’re from.



	H:	I was born in Orlando, Florida. I was raised in a city about twenty to fifteen minutes away from Orlando—Sanford, Florida. Raised there for a good portion of my life until about the age of, I’ll say, thirteen. I moved to a city about ten, fifteen minutes away, Oviedo, which is five minutes from Orlando. Graduated from Oviedo High School. And with the change and the shift from Sanford to Oviedo, there was a larger population of African Americans. So when shifting over to Oviedo High School, it was a tad bit of a culture shock. But I adapted well. I





made friends on both sides of the fence. I was better for the experience at the end of the day.

	W:	What was your earlier education like, since you mentioned the difference from going to the one high school to the other one? You went to elementary and middle school? What were those like?

	H:	I went to the elementary school in Sanford area.



	W:	And what was the name of that elementary school?



	H:	Idyllwilde Elementary. Some of my classic teachers that I can remember, I recall, from that era—I originally started off, actually, in a public school, Idyllwilde, and then after kindergarten, my parents had me transferred to a private school— Seminole Trinity Christian School. I went there for about three or four years, and then I transferred back to Idyllwilde Elementary. From there, my parents moved. We were still in the Sanford area, but they transferred me to Greenwood Lakes Middle School, which was in Lake Mary, Florida, ten minutes away from Sanford. And I got my education from sixth to eighth grade all three years there. And on that side of town, as I said, it was a little more diverse. There was definitely more culture and just all around more diversity. So in that sense, it was healthier. But moving to Oviedo was a good thing because it essentially showed me a different aspect of life that I hadn’t really experienced. It allowed me to meet and greet new people, and I’ve always considered myself an open-minded person. So on that note, I was able to grow even more. That’s the basics of it.

	W:	Okay, after high school, where did your education take you?





	H:	Oh, after high school I went straight to community college. I competed on the speech & debate team there for the full two years. Like a lot of college students, when I first got there, I wasn’t exactly sure what I was going to do. I was searching and I had done some speech tournaments my senior year in high school, and so when I heard that there was a speech & debate team, I immediately jumped on the train for it. And it turned out to be a great experience. It was a community college literally five minutes away from my home, right up the road from UCF in Orlando, Florida. And I gained a lot of friends there, a lot of memories there, and it essentially helped me, propel me into where I am now at Florida State University.

	W:	You had a lot of competitive success, which is why you came to the attention of Florida State University to join their forensics program. What were some of the achievements that you made at your community college? And please tell us which community college that was.

	H:	Seminole Community College, the Oviedo campus, more specifically. And while I was there, I—let’s see.

	W:	No need to be modest. Just run them right off.



	H:	I won five state titles on the two-year circuit. I received a bronze medal on the national—a bronze black, I’m sorry—at the national circuit for a programmed oral interpretation event that I did.

	W:	Phi Rho Pi Nationals?



	H:	Phi Rho Pi Nationals. One of the largest national tournaments in speech and debate.





	W:	And your five state titles were FCCAA? H:	Yes.

		W:	Florida Community College? H:	Florida Community College— W:		Activities Association.

	H:	Yes. FCCAA. Five state titles. Let’s see, what else was there? There was the fact that I was able to qualify my persuasion speech at that year, my second year of being there to one of the most prestigious national tournaments, IOA, which is—

	W:	Interstate Oratorical Association. A tournament that William Jennings Bryan participated in.

	H:	Yes. Yes, he did.



	W:	It’s a very old and prestigious tournament.



	H:	A very old and prestigious tournament. Something that still holds prestige even till this day.

	W:	That only two people in the state—of each state, every year—can go to. H:	Yes.

	W:	So that’s an achievement.



	H:	It was an achievement. It was also a bit of a precursor as to what lay ahead. I took second place to a competitor that was competing for FSU at the time, so I always saw the symbolism in that. I had no problem because I saw the road that was lying ahead, and I figured it was a path that would eventually lead me to great things. So while I was on the two-year circuit, I got some state championships under my belt, was able to qualify for IOA, competed in—it was





just an honor to simply compete—and able to make a bit of a mark for myself in the national circuit. And that’s essentially what the experience I had on the community college level helped bring about. It helped bring about a sense of identity as far as me being a competitor and a sense of strength and foundation that helped propel me into where I am now.

	W:	It’s fascinating. We hadn’t intended to talk about forensics. This is supposed to be an interview about the civil rights memorial here at Florida State, but I wanna ask you just a couple more questions about your competitive success, then talk a little about your family, and then talk about the integration statue. For your competitive success, are you still competing with Florida State, or have you now exhausted your eligibility, or will you be continuing next year, or?

	H:	Yeah. This is my last hoorah. This will be my last round of forensics for Florida State, and the senioritis hasn’t really hit me yet. I think that when I’m at nationals, it’s really gonna hit home. Even competing at my last state tournament this year, it was very emotional for me. You know, FIFA is a tournament I’ve always wanted to do well at.

	W:	Florida Intercollegiate Forensics Association. The state tournament.



	H:	Yes. The state tournament. And this is something that’s been a big thing for Florida State University’s program. It’s something that we prepare for and we take very seriously. And to be able to compete at my last FIFA and to see the things that my team did to prepare for the tournament, and to see them achieve success—that was just a beautiful thing for me. To be able to really see everyone





get their due justice. And it was happy to be a part of that. And it was happy to be a part of a continuing legacy here at Florida State University.

	W:	I’m sure with no small measure of some pride in that the University of Florida won for individual events, but Florida State University won overall.

	H:	That’s something that actually I’m glad you brought up. It’s something that I really hit home to my competitors. I told my team, I said, listen. This is our state tournament. We have to defend our title. There are people out there that want this thing just as bad as we do or more. And I was happy for UF. UF has an amazing squad of forensicators. They’re a young squad, so they’re going to come back even stronger next year. And so our team has their work cut out for them next year. But they’re always up for the task. They’re a crazy bunch of kids, and they’re hard workers. At the end of the day, I think they’ll be fine.

	W:	One last forensics question. The forensics community is a very open community in terms of ideas and different kinds of people. You participate as an African American male, though, and have had unique and overwhelming and consistent success. What does that mean to you to be Black in America and doing well in these events? Does it mean anything at all? Is there anything even to talk about here?

	H:	Forensics, man. It’s interesting. It’s interesting when you really bring in the topic of race with forensics. The thing is, being a competitor, and more specifically, an African-American competitor—I’ve taken some of the teachings that I was taught as a kid with me into tournaments. Growing up in this world, my mom—when it came to race, always taught me to be open-minded. And she would always tell





me, look. I could care less about who you marry—Black, White, green, purple— at the end of the day, you have to wake up next to them. So as long as you love them and they love you, that’s what matters. But she was also real with me. And she let me know from a very young age that in spite of the talent or the gift that God has given you, there are going to be some people in this world that don’t like you based off color alone. And there’s nothing, unfortunately, you can do about that. But what you can control is your own life. And you can control your actions. And so I take that principle and I adopt it into the forensics world. And when I go into rounds, there may be judges that, for whatever reason, may not like my performance. But I can control my performance, I can control my action, I can control my emotion, I can control my level of work ethic. So far, the principle, nine times out of 10, you know, it pays off. With the topic of race and forensics, it’s really worked well in my favor. I’m not gonna lie. I enjoy being a competitor. I enjoy being an African-American competitor. I enjoy just the ability to be able to stand out, definitely. I feel like whenever I have a big achievement, that it’s a direct reflection on the coaching that I’ve received, it’s a direct reflection on the type of person that I am, my work ethic. It’s also a good thing. It’s also a reflection of my historical background in the African-American history. My ties and my belief in the things that great leaders such as Dr. King have implemented. When looking back at that, in high school, I entered the Martin Luther King oratorical contest, which is something that actually helped me get to forensics. And being in a contest such as that and people would always come up to me and tell me, Dr. King would be so proud if he was still alive. And hearing





those words, it really takes a toll on you. A good emotional fact, it really takes a toll on you. So being an African-American competitor is something that I’m proud of. I’m proud of, I’m happy for, and I think that everyone should essentially be proud of being any nationality or race of competitor that they are. I think that the only problem comes in is when you allow the negativity of the world to cause you to feel ashamed of who you are or part of who you are. So, yeah. I’m proud of it. In the famous words of James Brown, I’ll say it loud: I’m Black and I’m proud. I’ll take that with me to the grave.

	W:	I’d like to talk a little about your family. Tell me about your mom and dad. Who are they, where are they from?

	H:	My parents—let’s see. My dad’s straight from Florida. He’s a Florida boy through and through. My mother was born in South Carolina and she was raised, for the majority of her life, in New York. So bit of a change there with her.

	W:	What are their names, please?



	H:	Virgil Hayes. I’m a junior. Virgil Lee Hayes Senior is my father’s name. Julia Ann Hayes is my mother’s name.

	W:	Do you have brothers and sisters?



	H:	I have one brother. Brad Terrell Hayes. And my parents—you know, I was raised in the church. My father is a minister at the church back at home.

	W:	And what’s the name of that church?



	H:	Calvary Temple of Praise. And my parents, they both instilled biblical teachings in me since I was a kid. I would get Bible study lessons on Sunday mornings before church, and then go to Sunday school, then sit through church. So as a





kid, church was something that wasn’t really a choice. It was mandatory. And in a lot of aspects, I’m grateful for that. My brother is not my true biological brother.

He’s actually adopted. He is my cousin, and there were some issues health-wise with his mother, so when he was born, my parents took him in and adopted him. But I’ve always loved and treated him as a brother and anyone who really knows me knows that he’s in my heart. I’m one of those people where you can say anything you want about me, just leave my brother out of it. He suffers from a level of mental retardation academically, and he’s always been someone who looks up to me even though he’s older than me. He was born in [19]85, I was born in [19]87. But he always looks up to me and he’ll call me before tournaments if he knows I’m competing, and he’ll say, “hey man, go kick butt.” “Go win a trophy for me.” I take him with me wherever I go, each tournament.

There’s even been times where I’ve been in rallies and I’ve drawn up some emotional need for an interp event just based off encouraging words that he’s given me. So he’s my heart. I love him to death. And he knows it.

	W:	Tallahassee is considered by many people to be a special place in the history of modern Civil Rights Movement. There was a bus boycott here, just like there was in Montgomery in the 1960s. FAMU students advocated to integrate the lunch counters here in town. Downtown at the bus depot, there is a statue of Reverend

C.K. Steele for his efforts in the Tallahassee Bus Boycott movement and many other activities. He was involved in with the ICC and with the Congress for Racial Equality. And in that tradition of recognizing civil rights firsts and achievements, there is a unique bronze statue here on the campus of Florida State University.





Could you talk a little bit about that integration statue, titled “Integration,” and your impressions of the statue?

	H:	When I first visited Florida State’s campus, it was one of the first things I saw.



And I thought it was beautiful.



	W:	Could you describe it?



	H:	Yes. Walking up on the statue, you have the first African American prom queen— or not prom queen, sorry—the first African American girl to ever be integrated to the campus. You have the first African American athlete, and I’m trying to think of the last—

	W:	The first undergraduate. H:	Yes.

	W:	So the first homecoming princess, the first—



	H:	The first homecoming, the first athlete, and the first undergraduate. And to see that statue—honestly, my first impression of it when I saw it was, wow. This is crazy. This is something that I would expect to see in a civil rights museum. But to see it on campus, it really hit home. Florida State’s need to express and understand the need for diversity—not just in Tallahassee, but across any campus—I think that it represents a historical value that Florida State University understands. I think it represents Florida State’s understanding of diversity not only on college campuses, as I’ve stated, but also across the U.S. nation. I think it’s not something that’s just a Florida State thing. I think it’s a national symbol for all African Americans, for all Americans of any color. I think that anyone can look at the statue and draw something from it. But me being an African-American





student, an African American citizen, looking at that really—in a sense, it put me at ease. Being in a new environment and being in a new place, I wasn’t exactly sure of what to expect. But seeing that statue was something that really hit home to me and it’s something that I always kind of gaze at whenever I walk by it.

	W:	It’s interesting what an important part of campus it is. It’s there with the student union and next to the bookstore, a very frequently and heavily traveled area on the legacy walk with those kiosks that talk about achievements and pictures. And I’ve noticed, in my time not only here as a graduate student but visiting afterwards, there are always people stopping and taking pictures of it.

	H:	Yeah.



	W:	What is that all about?



	H:	Like you said, it’s a really big thing on campus. It’s a historical thing for Florida State. But to take a picture of it—it’s really become something that is, I guess, in a sense, commercialized on campus. It’s become so popular that people want to take pictures of it not just to post on Facebook or Myspace, but to really have that historical significance and that memory of what this truly means. It’s just as if people were taking a picture in front of the Lincoln Memorial to have that image, to have that memory, to be in front of something that symbolizes so many great things throughout American history. I think that that’s something that people just find beauty in. The sculpture is just crafted beautifully. The detail. The last time I walked past it, I actually got close and saw the detail in the facial images of just the statue and just to see that up close, it almost gives you chills just to think about everything that it symbolizes. So in that aspect, it’s understandable that so





many people want to keep that memory for a long time. What better way to take a picture?

	W:	What makes Florida State unique among Florida’s colleges and universities? I mean, FAMU is in town, there’s TCC in town. Why is it important to have that statue here at Florida State University?

	H:	I think it’s important to have that statue here at Florida State University because it’s a major university in the state of Florida, as stated earlier, but it’s something that really combines a lot of elements. FAMU is a historical HBCU. They’ve got a lot of prestige. They’ve got a lot of history in their program. Florida State University is something that I think bridges the gap in Tallahassee area. When you have community colleges such as Tallahassee Community College and FAMU, I think Florida State University essentially combines a lot of the two worlds together and brings that diversity. You have kids who go from TCC straight to FSU, and you have kids who dual-enroll at FAMU and FSU, and it really brings home a sense of diversity when you get on our campus. And you realize the diversity in the classrooms. You realize the diversity in the student union, the student organizations. Once you get a sense of that, then looking at the statue really takes the symbolism to a completely different level. And I think that FSU is—that’s something that they essentially pride themselves on, we pride ourselves on, is that we are the bridge that connects these two worlds together. We’re the bridge that ties in the essence of diversity.

	W:	So you think if it wasn’t there, if it was absent, this type of recognition, it would send a different signal?





	H:	I think it could definitely send a different signal. I think it could send a signal that essentially we’re taking history for granted. I think the statue symbolizes that we are not taking history for granted, and that we do recognize and understand that we, as American citizens, must look to history to not always be depressed by some of the tragic things that have happened, but to look at history as a form of inspiration, as a form of reminder of where we’ve come from, where we are, and where we’re going. I think this statue essentially means even more, especially in today’s time, with us having our first African-American president, Obama, in office—to really have a statue such as that on campus and in such a central location—it really, really hits home and even in today’s time, and shows that a statue, and a symbol such as that, is truly timeless.

	W:	Mr. Virgil Lee Hayes, thank you so much for taking the time to do this interview, and I like to conclude my interviews by thanking you on behalf of the University of Florida and the Sam Proctor Oral History Program and to allow you the opportunity to close the interview with any reflections you may have, something we talked about or didn’t talk about or any closing comment, and when you conclude your remarks, that will end the interview.

	H:	Well, I would just like to say that I think the interview’s been great thus far, and I hope that it’s something that a lot of major universities around Florida and around the nation take into consideration. The need for diversity. Because it really has an impact on student population. It really has an impact on the statement that you make to the nation. And I think that FSU having a symbolic structure such as that really makes a good statement to the state of Florida and to the United





States of America. And I think this interview has been great. I think it’s also been an educational experience for me, myself, reflecting back on my life and how I’ve come to be the person that I am today and how much more growing I have to do to be the person that I feel that God has called me to be in the future. But with that being said, I thank you very much, and I hope that everything goes well with the rest of your interviews if you conduct any more in the future. And that’s Virgil Hayes. Over and out.

[End of interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Anupa Kotipoyina, March 16, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 16, 2019