AAHP 123; Pettis, Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 123 Eugene Pettis

African American History Project (AAHP) Interview conducted by Ryan Morini on September 3, 2010

15 minutes | 7 pages



Abstract: This interview was conducted at the 2010 Black Alumni Weekend at the University of Florida. Eugene Pettis was the keynote speaker of the occasion. He explains how and why he ended up coming to UF, where he completed his undergraduate studies and his law degree both. Mr. Pettis was the first Black Student Body Treasurer at UF, and he describes some of his other achievements while a student, and talks about the opportunities that he feels he was afforded at UF. He describes some of the Black-owned businesses he used to go to off-campus when he was a student, as well as other interactions with the city of Gainesville outside of UF. Mr. Pettis also notes some of his instructors and mentors, and then discusses some of his vision and hopes for the future of the UF Association of Black Alumni.





Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida]













































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 123

Interviewee: Eugene Pettis Interviewer: Ryan Morini Date: September 3, 2010



	M:	This is Ryan Morini, I’m interviewing Eugene Pettis here at Black Alumni Weekend. I didn’t explain this, I should have; you don’t have to worry about speaking into this; it will pick it all up. Just to start off, may I ask when you were born?

	P:	1960.



	M:	Where about?



	P:	Ft. Lauderdale, Florida.



	M:	When did you decide you were going to go to UF?



	P:	I had a late decision. I had been made an offer back in 1978 when I was graduating from high school, a scholarship offer. At that point in time I didn’t think that I wanted to go to a predominantly White school. I was focused on all the historically Black colleges. I had applied to all of those that I knew and got accepted to many of them. In the spring of 1978, I met a gentleman who was in dental school here. He said, “Why don’t you want to come to Gainesville?” I said, “It’s too big, and not enough Black students.” He said, “First of all, every day that you spend at the campus, the campus gets smaller. How many Black students do you really need?” At that time I think we had about seventeen to eighteen hundred out of twenty-eight thousand students. I went back home that evening and said, “Mom, I think I’m going to accept the scholarship to Florida.” I came up here on June 9th, sight unseen. I had never been up to Gainesville before. I had never been on campus obviously. I made the call to come at that time, started in







June and continued through my undergraduate studies here. I went to law school here as well.

	M:	What was your major here?



	P:	Undergrad I did Political Science with a minor in English. I went to law school in [19]82- [19]85.

	M:	Very nice. What were your first impressions of the campus?



	P:	I loved the campus. Certain things happen in life. As you know, I’m the keynote speaker tomorrow, so this is a part of the stuff I’m going to be discussing tomorrow. I loved the campus. Aesthetically I thought it was gorgeous. I’m from South Florida where we have just palm trees. All the big oak trees, tree coverage was totally different. The historic buildings really impressed me. It felt like a community. At that point in time, a big free city that you felt really comfortable in and everything was focused around the university. I loved it from moment one.

	M:	Did you experience any difficulty being Black or a small minority on a historically White campus?

	P:	No I did not. Everybody’s travels are different. I saw it as a challenge. I came up here in [19]78 June, and within the first year I was running for Black Student Union president. I became president at the end of my freshmen year into my sophomore year. I just saw it as an opportunity to make a change at the university. I got very involved throughout the years. I became Treasurer of Student Body, Blue Key, Hall of Fame all that stuff the accolades you get. My main focus was I saw an opportunity to make a difference from within the system. During the early [19]70s a lot of African Americans didn’t have an opportunity to







get inside the system, so they had to fight from outside. When I came along, I had some opportunities. I made a very close relationship with the administration. I had a very close relationship with a lot of different facets of the university which enabled me to try to bring more people into the process. When I ran for Student Body Treasurer in1980-[19]81, we had never had Black senators in student government. We had never had anybody on ACCENT. We had never had a Black treasurer. When they asked me to run, that was my negotiation point. If you want me, I need five senate seats. We negotiated that, I got my five senate seats. I got a person to run for ACCENT, and we won. In one swoop, I became treasurer, I had somebody on ACCENT, and I had five senators. You can look back on the people that I encouraged to run they’re all stars. They’ve all done extremely well in their professional endeavors. That was my mission, to get more people engaged within the university. I’m a believer that from within, you can change it. From outside it’s difficult to change sometime. I didn’t have anything stuck in my mind as any unusual challenges. It’s life. You deal with people from all walks of life. There’s good and there’s not so good in every group. I saw it as a university that provided a lot of opportunity for me.

	M:	Fair enough. Did you also interact much with the town of Gainesville, or was it mostly centered around the campus?

	P:	I met a number of people having stayed here seven years, through fraternity brothers of mine in Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity who several of them lived in Gainesville. You would interact with their families, go over to their house on a lucky day when you could get a Sunday dinner over there. I met a number of







people from Gainesville over the years. Ninety-nine percent of your involvement is on the campus obviously, but on the social scene back then, the city residents and the university residents would come together. Many of them you were very familiar with because they were always around back in those times.

	M:	I don’t want to ask too many more questions; I know you’re in a hurry. P:	I’m fine. Now I’m in the groove, so you can keep talking.

	M:	Where did you go out for fun if you were going out on the town?



	P:	The town was a lot different back in the [19]70s and early [19]80s. Downtown really didn’t exist. There was no club scene downtown. The Reitz Union was the place that all the Black fraternities would take turns renting out the Reitz Union and would have parties. That was a main location. There would be tons of clubhouse parties at the various clubhouses, from Regency Oaks to all around the town. Until we would get thrown out of the clubhouses and have to move to the next clubhouse. It was a lot of clubhouse parties and it was university based activities largely driven through my fraternity Kappa Alpha Psi.

	M:	Where did you get your hair cut?



	P:	When I came here I had an afro. The summer I got here June 1978 I decided to get it cut down. I would go over on Fifth Avenue right down from Mom’s Kitchen. I think the guy’s name was Aaron Young; he was a City Commissioner for a while. That’s where I would get my haircut. I can see it and I think his last name was Young. That was the little corridor, little strip in the Black community in Gainesville. One spot I would get my hair cut, and if I had two or three dollars in







my hand, I could get also pick up a real nice home-cooked meal at Mom’s Kitchen.

	M:	Was that your basic lure out to Fifth Avenue usually?



	P:	That or Mom’s Kitchen. One of those would be the only reason I would be over there.

	M:	Understandable, what about food in general?



	P:	Back in those days compared to now, I get up to Gainesville probably four or five times a year for various committees I serve on. It’s changed tremendously. Back then you didn’t know any better. What you had you were pleased with. In the Reitz Union was the main dining room. It was basic. It was two lines and you eat the couple of items they cooked for you. There were not all these fast food options. Fast food just didn’t exist at the level we now appreciate it. I ate more chicken in my first year here at Florida than I had eaten in all my life. There was a lot of chicken. But the meals were good. I was on the meal plan. It led me to make sure I got three good meals a day, relatively inexpensive. That’s where I primarily ate. I would venture off campus. The city of Gainesville was just not as developed with as many options as it has now. Nowhere near.

	M:	I see it actively year by year expanding. Did you have any particular mentor or people you would go to when you had problems, or wanted advice or guidance around campus?

	P:	The first mentors I had were Betty Stewart. Betty Stewart was the Program Director over the program PAACT. The PAACT Program back then was a program that brought in and oriented Black students in to the university. Mr.







Mingo was also a mentor. Then I had a very close relationship with Art Sandeen. At that time Dr. Sandeen was the Vice President of Student Affairs. He held that position for all my tenure here. He was obviously a high ranked administrator, who I had worked with on a number of university-wide committees. I was the student on the committee that brought in the Dean of Students. The Dean of Students happened to be Jim Scott, who’s now deceased. Jim Scott, since I was on the committee that brought him here, he and I developed a close relationship. He was the first African American that we had brought in on that level of Dean of Students. Jim and I had a close relationship.

	M:	Other than detaining you a little longer than you’d like, I think that covers most of our questions. As far as bringing it up to today if you don’t mind an extra minute or two. What do you see the importance of this Alumni Weekend as being? What kind of experience is it for you to come to this event?

	P:	As I stated earlier, I get up very frequently. I think it’s more significant when you have African American graduates to come in the numbers that they are coming. It’s important that they stay connected to the university. The university has offered a great foundation and network that I think in any walk of life, you can benefit both professionally, as well as benefit by having fulfillment of assisting in a common endeavor by staying connected to the university. All of us have walked a path and somebody along the way helped all of us to get to where we are. I think therefore it’s very important that we stay connected and help encourage and pull some other young folks, the next generation, forward. I give up my time as well as my money to the university. I’m one of the Law School







Board of Trustees and I’ve been on the Foundation Board of Directors for eight years. I take it to an extreme. I think it’s very fulfilling to me to come back and look at the next generation and how the opportunities that they are being offered today are so much more enriching than those that we had. It’s very stimulating to me. When I get close to Gainesville, I get excited still to this day. It’s just a place of all good memories for me, I enjoy coming back. I get involved in regional campaigns. I’m on the leadership committee for this particular campaign. We have a billion and a half campaign. I just think it’s very important that we stay connected and that we give whatever we have: time, money, and service back to the university because that’s the type of commitment that’s going to truly make it the great place it is and continue to make it the great place that it is.

	M:	Very well, do you have any final thoughts to add? I guess that’s a pretty good one.

	P:	That kinds of capture it. I’m looking forward to it. Hopefully in the years to come we can continue to build the reconnection if you will and more and more people will come back and get reconnected and stay connected. In time you’ll go from one hundred fifty, to two hundred, to three hundred, to four hundred. Then we will be getting some real big numbers of students coming back to be a part of the university.

	M:	Thank you very much.



	P:	You’re more than welcome. [End of Interview]







	Transcribed by:	Andre Everette



	Audit edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, April 21, 2017 Final edited by:	Ryan Morini, February 19, 2019