AAHP-498; Parker; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 498 Panzie Parker Interviewed by Ryan Morini on June 17, 2017

39 minutes | 24 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Panzie Parker talks about her life growing up in High Springs, Florida. High Springs like many other towns across the United States was divided. Parker describes in great detail the city and how segregation impacted Black life. There were very few Black owned businesses in this town as well.



Keywords: [African American History; High Springs, Florida; Columbia County; Black businesses]



Standards

	SS.912.A.2.5 Jim Crow laws

	SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.



AAHP-498

Interviewee: Panzie Parker

Interviewer: Ryan Morini, Aliya Miranda, Patrick Daglaris Date: June 17, 2017



	MO:	This is Ryan Morini with the Sam Proctor Oral History program. Today is June 17, 2017, and I’m sitting here with Ms.—

	P:	Parker. Panzie Parker. MO:	As well as—

	MI:	Aliya Miranda.



	D:	And Patrick Daglaris.



	MO:	Thanks. In High Springs, Florida. Can we ask when you were born? P:	1928. August the 3rd.

	MO:	And was that here in High Springs? P:	High Springs.

	MO:	So were you born with a midwife present, or was that—



	P:	I presume so, yeah. Back in that time, yeah it was a midwife. [Laughter] I think it was my grandmother. My great-great-grandmother.

	MI:	Was she a midwife by profession? P:	Yes.

	D:	What was her name?



	P:	Honey, don’t ask me. [Laughter] It’s so long, I can’t remember that. I don’t know.



But I know it was my grandma.





	MI:	What were your parents’ names?



	P:	My parents? Laura Bell. Now, do you want maiden name or marriage name? MI:	Both work.

	P:	Well, her maiden name was Laura Bell Washington. And her marriage name was Laura Bell Robinson.

	MI:	And your dad?



	P:	My dad was Alvin Robinson. They call him O.B. And he—you know High Springs.



Alvin Robinson.



	MI:	What were their professions?



	P:	My mom was like a maid. She worked in a hotel. Well, there used to be a hotel here, years—when I was a kid. Real small. She used to be a cook here. Yeah, they used to call it the Alabama Hotel. But that was when I was—and my daddy, he was a farmer. He worked with his dad in the farms.

	D:	Do you remember the name of the hotel?



	P:	Like I said, they used to call it—I think it was called the Alabama Hotel, if I’m not mistaken. Like I said, it’s been so long, honey.

	MI:	What did your dad farm? Your father, what crops was he growing? You said he was a farmer?

	P:	Well, yeah, with his dad. MI:	What did they farm?





	L:	She’s saying—are you saying farm? MI:	Yeah.

	L:	No, he was a barber.



	MI:	He was a barber, oh.



	P:	He was a barber. During the years coming up. After he got grown. MI:	Oh, after, okay.

	P:	But he was a barber after he left home.



	MO:	Sorry, I may have missed it. But so, his father owned land? His parents owned land?

	P:	As far as I can remember, he did own the land that they were on at the time. But back in that time, they might work here for this man for so many years, then he might flip and go somewhere else. As far as I know, he did own land once upon a time. But I can’t recall that, where or how long.

	MO:	But, so, your father was a barber later in life. P:	Yeah, he was a barber.

	MO:	So how did he become a barber? Do you know anything about that?



	P:	I guess it just appeared. He didn’t go to school or anything. Just was gifted to be a barber.

	MI:	And he was a barber here in High Springs?





	P:	No. After he left High Springs. And like I said, that was years and years later. You know, after he left home. He moved to New Jersey, and that’s where, you know, start manning a barber shop.

	MI:	So, were both your parents from High Springs as well? P:	Yes.

	MI:	And your grandparents? P:	Yes.

MI:   What were your grandparents’ names? Do you remember?



	P:	My grandparents on my mother’s side, I don’t remember my grandfather. He had passed before I was born. But my mother’s mother was Laura Bell Washington. She was after my mother. At least, my mother was after her. And my grandfather on her side, I don’t remember him. But on my father’s side, her name was Verla Robinson and Archer Robinson. My grandfather.

	MO:	And you were saying they’re all from High Springs? P:	High Springs.

	MO:	That’s a long ways back.



P:  Well, I say High Springs, but my grandfather on my father’s side, they was from, like, Columbia County. I don’t know whether you call that High Springs, but they from Columbia County.

MI:   Do you remember what they used to do for a living?





	P:	No, honey.



	MO:	Only asking.



	D:	What was it like growing up here?



	P:	Good. I loved it. Then I left. Real young, when I left. MI:	How old were you when you left?

	P:	I guess I was about twenty-seven. How old I was, when I’ve lived here? [Laughter] Because I left when—when you first went—well, me and Pete were born right—

	L:	But we stayed with my grandma and then—at first, he was in the military. Right? He was in the military. Think, ma. Think about—what about when you said you all knew Mr. White. When was that?

	P:	That was—I think back in the [19]58? I don’t know. L:	It could have been [19]58.

	P:	I don’t know, honey. You know what, I can’t remember that. I don’t remember, honey. I can’t tell you, cause I can’t remember. I can’t remember right now.

	MO:	Whatever you do remember is fine.



	P:	All I remember is growing up here in High Springs.



	L:	They asked about how was it. I know when I was here, cause I left when I was nine. And that was back in 1958. I left with my mom. And it was nice because





you didn’t have to lock your door. Nobody locked doors. And I remember that as a little kid. Nobody locked doors. I mean, you know, you just—

MI: You trusted everybody. L:   Yeah! It was very—

P:  The neighborhood was nice, everybody got along. Everybody know everybody. They could tell you—you know, she said we didn’t have to lock doors. Look out for each other. You mean to tell me [inaudible 07:23]?

	L:	But if I might add something. Everything was good. It was really nice. But, as a kid in that community, as far as—everything was, like, segregated. It was very much segregated. And me being a little kid, I guess it didn’t really matter too much. But I was very inquisitive about certain things. Like laundromat, we had to be on one side. Me and my mom, we gotta be on this side and everybody else was on that side. Your side had concrete floors, our side had sawdust. They had washers and dryers on their side, about eight or so. We had about two or three, that kinda stuff. School, all Black school. You know? That kinda thing. And then when I went to New Jersey was like a culture shock. This is back in [19]58, [19]59, when I got up there. It was totally different, cause I went from being in all Black schools to being the only Black girl in my class. And my next-door neighbor was the only Black boy, in the same class. And it was like, totally different. And this was back in the late [19]50s, you know what I mean? But, other than that, growing up down here, I had a good time. And I had a good time, and I was after her. So, she says all the time how good a time they had, and she—schools, she





was the basketball star. She was the captain of her team, and all that kinda stuff. So, this is a good place. I don’t know about [inaudible 09:04] now, I guess it’s still good. Raising kids.

MO:  [Inaudible 9:09]



	L:	Yeah, it’s really funny. And we’d go to Priest Theater that they had down here. You can’t see it now, but when I moved back down here—I’ve been here, like, twenty one years. When I moved back down here and I would ride by, you could see where the door was sealed up, where they filled it in with brick? That was our entrance. That was the Black entrance. You had to go that way, to go. And you had to go upstairs in the balcony to watch the movie. You weren’t allowed downstairs. But you had upstairs, but springs in armrest, springs in the chairs was poking through your butt, and they had that projector thing with the big light. That’s where you had to sit, you couldn’t sit where the thing was. You know, that kinda stuff I remember. I am lost, as a kid. And I thought it was so big. High Springs, so big. And now it’s like, boy, you just [inaudible 10:05]. Especially cause—I’m back here now, but I lived somewhere else a lot of, lot of years. You know what I mean? High Springs has some nice little things. Quiet.

	MO:	Was the theater open when you were growing up? L:	Yeah.

	P:	I used to work there. I used to collect tickets. MO:	Oh, okay.





	P:	But like she said, we couldn’t go up front, down the front door. We had to go on the side door and go up the steps, in a little room, maybe it wasn’t bigger than this tent. Where the Black had to sit. And, like she said, the projector was up there with all the noise and the heat and all that kinda coming. But that’s where we had to sit. And I worked at night, taking tickets, as a little girl growing up.

	MI:	How old were you when you were working?



	P:	I think I was about, maybe, fourteen, fifteen, something like that. MI:	And were you doing it to help your household, or—

	P:	No.



	MI:	Was that your own money that you wanted for yourself?



	P:	That was my money. [Laughter] I was an only child; I didn’t have any sisters or brothers, so I got everything. I didn’t have to want for nothing. [Laughter]

	MI:	That’s great.



	P:	It’s just something I liked to do. Same way with—did I tell you about Skeedee’s?



This corner here? I worked for her in the afternoon, after school. That was my money. It took my money to do anything. But like she was talking about, the segregation part—I was raised [inaudible 11:37] this entire year. I can elaborate on that, because I know you don’t know now, how it was. You know, I know you done heard about it, if you didn’t, I know you done heard about it. And it’s still going on today. It ain’t where it’s supposed to be today. But, thank God, it’s better than it was.





	MI:	You talked about working in the kitchen at Skee’s. You were washing dishes?



	P:	Yeah. Washing dishes in the back. That’s all. I didn’t do the whole hokey stuff, I did the new silver in the glass.

	MI:	Was that the same time you were working the tickets in the Priest Theater? P:	Yeah. During the same time.

	MI:	So you were working two jobs. P:	Yeah.

	MI:	Wow. Can we ask which schools you went to? P:	Douglas.

	MI:	Douglas? That was the high school. Were there any primary schools before that?



	P:	No. Straight out. Everything was Douglas. Right up from…We didn’t have that.



So, like I said, it was nice because I was raised that way. That’s all I knew. That’s all any of the kids knew. We knew where we couldn’t do this, and we couldn’t go there, and we couldn’t do this. But—

	MI:	That was just life?



	P:	That’s life for us. That’s accepted.



	MO:	What was the job at Skeet’s Corner? Did you like those jobs, or—



	P:	Oh, yes. I loved my job. And I loved Skeet. Skeet was my—she used to call me her girl. It was nice working with her. It was like a little restaurant. And a gas station. There used to be a gas station there. Right on that corner. Used to call it





Skeet’s Corner. And there was a gas station on one side, and a little restaurant on the other side. But it was nice. The workers were nice and everything. Um- hm.

	M:	So your job was basically just washing the dishes there for the restaurant? P:	Yes. It’s something to do.

	MI:	How did you get the job? Did you know Skeet’s initially?



	P:	You know what, to tell you the truth, honey, I don’t know how I got the job. I really know how I got that job. I really don’t. I think someone recommended me that job. I think it was B. Kelley. Cause she was the cook there at the time. And I think she the one recommended me that job. Like I said, she’s dead and gone too, so I really don’t know. I think it was her. Whenever I got there, and I did a couple of days. And Skeet’d pick me up. You’d come in every day after school. Wasn’t getting paid that much, I think about five or six dollars, but to me then, that was a lot of money. A lot of money.

	MI:	Can I ask what you did for a doctor? Who was your doctor, for your family? P:	Well, Dr. P.D. Weeks was my doctor.

	MI:	And where did they practice?



	P:	Downtown High Springs. He’d be my doctor. After, you know, I got up from Florida. Yeah.

	MO:	Was Dr. Weeks a Black man? P:	No, he was a White doctor.





	MO:	Okay.



	P:	We didn’t have any Black doctors at the time. Not here in High Springs. I don’t know if they had them in Gainesville. They might have had them, but we didn’t. All we knew was Dr. P.D. Weeks, and I forget the other doctor’s name. Dr. Wick, I think was his name. But my doctor was Dr. Weeks.

	MO:	So, under segregation, was there any difference in your access to the doctor or anything like that, or how did that work?

	P:	No. We went in. We’d go in. One thing I can remember, there wasn’t any segregation with him. You go in, you make appointment, you go to him. Well, for me, even after I got grown and married, when I had my kids—I had her and her sister, I was like a pain in the butt with him because he said, “Every time I look up here, you come! What’s wrong with you now?” I don’t care what is the other, I’ll call Dr. Weeks. He would come. Matter of fact, I had both of them at home.

Nowadays, you go to the hospital. I had them straighten my shoulder. I’ll tell everybody. Women now, they go there, and they get a needle in the back for the pain. I didn’t have that. I had my kids at home. And he was right there with me during the time. When I start having pain, my momma call him and he came out and he stayed with me until my kids was born. And after they were born, I lived in his office. Cause every little thing that goes wrong, I called him. “Panzie, what you want now? What’s wrong now? But bring him on up here; let me look at him. And then see what’s wrong.” So, I really loved my Dr. Weeks. Like I said, segregation—he didn’t show me any. I don’t know what he did with others, but I didn’t get it.





	MO:	So, do you remember any Black-owned businesses in High Springs?



	P:	Yeah, Mr. Clyde Watkins. Mr. Watkins. When, years ago it used to be a man named Mr. Katy Lovett. He was owning his own business. And Mr. Andrew Whitfield. He owned his own business. And, who else back in that time? I don’t know. There wasn’t too many. I’ll tell you that. It wasn’t too many that had a business. J. Jordan. He owned the dry cleaners. He had his own business. Like I said, wasn’t that many Blacks that owned their own business during my time.

	MI:	What kind of appliances did you have at home, when you were growing up there? Did you have, like, a radio? How did you get your news?

	P:	Radio. Back in that time, but then later on it moved up and we got a television.



But it was a long time before we got a television. That’s how we got it. I even had a paper [inaudible 18:23]. Philadelphia Inquirer. That was the paper then, during the time. But we didn’t have anything but radio most of the time. I think TV come along when they were coming along, wasn’t it, Carol?

	L:	What?



	P:	TV. I mean they came along—



	L:	I remember the first TV [inaudible 18:46]. It was all concerts. [Laughter] Yeah.



Then the next one we got. . . they called it TV outlet. It had a little light, like those lights you put on, like, a Christmas tree. Where it turns colors. We end up with that. Before that, she had a sheet! [Laughter] A piece of plastic that you put over the—[Laughter] yeah. She was trying. It looked good to me! I remember that, but





I’ve been around for a long time, too. I’m almost seventy. I’ll be sixty-eight in August. So I remember a lot of stuff. [Laughter]

	MO:	You can do an interview, too, after this. L:	[Laughter] No, that’s all right.

	MI:	You had your children here in High Springs? How many kids did you have? P:	Two, her and her sister.

	MI:	And their names?



	P:	This is Carol Lasseter and my daughter Dorothy Williams. And they’re both married. That’s their married names. Their names was Parker before. [Laughter]

	L:	And I have four girls. My daughter has two girls. Well, women. My oldest is forty- five. My mom was an only child, though. It was just us two. And then each of us had grandkids and that’s when the boys start coming. [Laughter]

	MI:	What role did the church have in your life? The church? How present was it in your life?

	P:	I was going to Mt. Olive Baptist Church in High Springs. MI:	How often did you go? Did you go only on Sundays, or. . .

	P:	You know what? During that time, I used to go to church with my grandma. And they used to have what we call BYPU. You know, [inaudible 20:56]. Sunday was a must in the BYPU.

	MI:	Do you remember any of your teachers in school?





	P:	A few of them. My teachers. Everybody know Catherine Taylor. She was well, well known, Ms. Catherine Taylor. And there was Hattie Lovett. Ms.Cole, Ms. Clementine Coleman, and Mr. Green was our principal. Mr. Cathy was one of our teachers. Lady Whitfield. Ms. Mills, Esther Mills. Dee Miller. Oh yeah, Back in the day, but I think they’re old or deceased. I think I remember the old. [Laughter] That I can remember, you know, can recall.

	MI:	What were some of your favorite subjects in school?



	P:	I used to love to read. And now I don’t care for reading. [Laughter] And that was it. I’d had no real favorite I knew how to sew, but—

	MI:	Like home ec?



	P:	Home economics, yeah.



	MI:	And you said you left High Springs in your twenties? P:	Yeah.

	MI:	Why did you leave High Springs?



	P:	Well, my husband—I remarried—and my husband went up with his niece. And after he went up with her, she came down. And she talked him into coming back. But at the time, my husband was working at Hunt and Linzer Cleaners up in High Springs. That used to be Hunt and Linzer Dry Cleaning. And they wasn’t paying him much, maybe forty, forty-five dollars a week. So when he came down she said, “Why don’t you go back with him and secure an [inaudible 23:14] job? And get more money, get money for the family and everything?” He didn’t wanna





go. But then she took him. [Inaudible 23:24] to go, so he went. He was there one month. And he had a job paying him big bucks. Well, he was a dry cleaner, he worked at a dry cleaners. And [inaudible 23:38] and I kept sitting off. Well, cause I didn’t want to leave my kids. I had never left High Springs, I didn’t know nothing about nobody. Uh-huh, yeah. And I didn’t wanna leave them, so I say, “I can’t leave my kids. I don’t want to leave.” And in the meantime, he had worked for Hunt and Linzer’s, the railroad had sent out application. But this was a good break for a lot of the Black guys. I think David’s one of them, I know his brother’s one of them. They had sent out an application and started hiring Blacks on the railroad. It was about six or seven of them, or eight. They all went over to Ocala, Florida, and they fill out this application. They all got hired, except my husband.

Every one of them heads out working, went back for the railroad, working making big bucks for the railroad. Atlantic Coastline during that time. And he wondered why he hadn’t ever gotten hired. And a friend of my mother’s told her, “Tell him to get dressed. Sunday I’m taking him to Ocala to the headquarters. I’m gonna find out why they haven’t hired him.” But next week, she took him to Ocala. Guess what this man told him when he got to Ocala. “We couldn’t hire him because his boss in High Springs at the cleaners.” Mr. Linzer told him, “Don’t hire him.” Because he need him. He’d been great for him at the cleaners, making about forty dollars a week, or forty-five dollars a week. They didn’t hire my husband because the man told them, Mr. Linzer told them, “Don’t hire him.” Because he’s great for him at the cleaners. Except my husband didn’t get the job, so that’s when my husband’s niece came down for a funeral. And she told him, “Well, you





can go back with me. I’ll get you a job.” And that’s how he left Florida. [Inaudible 25:50] And about a month down, he had a job. She had him a good job. And then he sent for me. But I didn’t wanna leave my children, because, like I said, High Springs was all I knew. I’d never been any place, you know, I was always in High Springs. But I kept on—“Come on, I want you to come.” “I’ll be there next week.” “I’ll be there next week.” And finally he told me, “If you’re not here Saturday, I’ll be home to get you Sunday.” And I start crying. I told my mom. My mommy say, “No baby, that’s your husband. You have to go with him. I know you don’t wanna leave but you have to, you know, be with him.” Oh, I cried and I picked a fit. But I picked myself up and I went to New Jersey. And I’ve been there ever since.

About forty-seven years I been in New Jersey.



	L:	You been there a long time! I was there forty something years!



	P:	But anyway, that’s where I met [inaudible 26:44]. That’ll show you how segregation down here during that time. If the White man say don’t do it, you don’t do it. If he tell you to do it, you do it. That’s how bad it was. And like I said, all these other guys got hired and working and doing good, and we were still struggling with forty, forty-five dollars a week.

	L:	And there’s wives right now, still getting checks from the railroad.



	P:	Um-hm. Making big checks and throwing money. But my husband didn’t get it and that’s when [inaudible 27:16]. And I’m glad it happened like that. I’m well- fixed, I don’t want for nothing. My husband, even after he’s dead, [inaudible 27:26] cleaners. And my son-in-law, he worked at Johnson & Johnson making





big bucks. Anytime my husband, he’d say, “I’m gonna bring you an application home. I’d like you to fill it out.” He filled out the application, and he took it in, and he say, “I’m not passing it, I’m gonna take it in, in person and hand it in.” And he took it in like this week, and the next week they called my husband. And that’s where he was until the day he died, working for Johnson & Johnson. Left me pretty good. I’m doing good. I just think if I had stayed here hustling, I’d still have been scraping. But thank God it worked out for me.

	MI:	What were you doing for work before you got here in High Springs? P:	I was doing the same thing. I was working at the. . .

	MI:	At the theater?



	P:	At the cleaners.



	MI:	Oh, the cleaners.



	P:	I could [inaudible 28:24]. MI:	Oh no, you’re good.

	P:	[Inaudible 28:26] He wanted me to come. I didn’t want to go. But my mom had me and the kids. And like I said, I never left High Springs. All I knew was High Springs. Go to Alachua, Gainesville, ooh, they’re going to New York, you know? A big city! You know. That’s all I knew. But when I got away and I saw it was different, I thought, “Oh, my god, look what I’ve been missing!” Amazing.

	MI:	Can I ask how you met your husband?





	P:	Well, my husband originally—when he was a kid, they came from Alabama.



Eastern Alabama to Florida. And we grew up together. We got married at seventeen years old. He was eighteen, I was seventeen. We got married, and if he had lived four months, [inaudible 29:16] we’d have been married forty years. [Inaudible 29:29]

	MI:	What kind of things would you do for fun together? P:	What, now?

	MI:	No, back when you were growing up here in High Springs. P:	Before I married?

	MI:	Mm-hm.



	P:	Oh, I loved basketball. I loved basketball. Wasn’t too much. Wasn’t too much to do. [Inaudible 30:04] until you got married. In other words, you had to make your own fun. Kids had to do their own things.

	MO:	What kinds of games did you come up with? P:	Oh, man, we used to get boards—

	L:	Springboard, I remember that!



	P:	Springboards, you know, you put boards and you jump on one side and step on the other.

	L:	Just like a teeter totter, in a sense. MI:	But, like, much more dangerous.





	L:	Yeah, yeah! [Laughter] We used to call it springboard. And, you know, one jump—if you had one that was real heavy, you’re going real high.

	P:	Real high.



	L:	And you come back down. And like you said, very dangerous. You know, whatever. It was fun. I guess those games just pass right on. Like she said, you had to make your own fun. I don’t remember. Hide-and-seek. That’s what I did.

	MO:	I mean, I guess, were there more woods back then around here or was it about the same?

	P:	About the same. MO:	Okay.

	A:	Can I ask how old you were when your family started to let you go off on your own into town, or leave home without them next to you?

	L:	When you got married, right, Mom? [Laughter] About sixteen, about seventeen?



P:  About seventeen. [Laughter] When they let you going out now. You didn’t play that, you know. [Laughter]

A:  Unless you were going to work or school? P:  Yeah.

L:   And it passed right on. [Laughter] She didn’t let me do nothing. Get fresh after. We can’t do nothing as far as spend the night on somebody’s house. She said, “Unh-uh. They can come here, but you ain’t going nowhere. [Laughter] If they





come here, I know what’s going on. You go over there, unh-uh, we don’t know.” And that’s why—we were talking about that yesterday. My mom’s house was the meeting house. [Laughter] I had so many friends come over. Cook, eat, play records, and stuff like that. As far as going out and hanging out and stuff, she didn’t let us do it. And I’m so glad she didn’t. When I’m raising my girls, it be the same thing. They knew they wasn’t going to be spending the night and all that stuff. And it’s good. You know, it’s a good thing, cause they doing [Inaudible 32:37]. Appreciate it. I remember one night, Ma was gonna get me some free reign—well, her and Daddy. And I begged, remember that? I begged like crazy. I wanted to go to this party so bad. I just wanted to go. Oh, man. And I kept whining, whining. They said, “Okay. Okay. We’ll go.” So my dad dropped me off. I got inside, then he left. So I went up the stairs. Everybody said, “Hey, Carol.” I said, “How you doing?” And I noticed it was like a huddle of kids on this corner.

And I’m like, “What are they doing over there?” So I peeked over there. Some idiot had a gun. Then I saw somebody drinking beer. I was like “Oh, god. I’m not supposed to be here. I shouldn’t be in here. I shouldn’t be in here.” So, I said, “I’ll be right back.” They said, “Where you going? Where you going?” I flew back down those stairs, and a friend of mine lived on the corner. 204 Springs Street.

Carol Smith, I remember her. I ran all the way down in the dark. I wasn’t thinking about nothing but getting to a phone. Cause they ain’t have cell phones then. [Laughter] So I called my dad to come pick me up. And I’m not [Inaudible 33:45]. It’s dark! I said, “I gotta call my dad. Gotta call my dad, you gotta come pick me





up.” I called. “I knew you shouldn’t have went to that party.” But that’s just one of the times—

	P:	I didn’t play then. Didn’t let them out of my sight. [Laughter]



	L:	I ain’t worried about going anywhere else. But I thought that was such a big thing to do. [Inaudible 34:08] We’d never been around a whole bunch of craziness, foul stuff. And even my girls—never. I didn’t raise them around—I don’t like a whole bunch of chaos. I don’t like a whole bunch of stuff going on. I don’t like a whole bunch of crazy—all that stuff now, all that kinda stuff. And I raised them like that, too. And I’m sure they gonna do theirs like that. I have twenty-four-year-old twin grandsons—and I raised them [Inaudible 34:42]. And they’re just like that, too.

They’re just good kids. They’re like that since I had them. Compliments for your time. Kindergarten. Even up to now. They work part-time at McDonalds. I saw them today. She was saying, “Their mannerisms are so nice. Those are such nice guys. Oh, my goodness.” But I wouldn’t expect less! [Laughter] You know what I mean? But they’re good, so they just pass right through. It’s a good thing.

	MO:	The foundations?



	L:	Yeah. Yeah, same thing.



	P:	We’ll have to start over. Start over. A:	What were birthdays like?

	L:	Birthdays?





	A:	Yeah. How did you celebrate birthdays? P:	Party. Always had a party.

	A:	Who was invited?



	P:	Other classmates. Yeah. [Inaudible 35:38] My mom let me have friends come over for parties. She would make always-- They know they gonna eat good and have a good time. In all, I had a good life up until this present time.

	L:	I had good parties, too. My grandma [Inaudible 35:56] [Laughter] We stayed with her until—like I said—until I was nine. My sister, she didn’t care about that stuff. But I did. [Laughter] I was the younger one—only about a year and a half younger. But I enjoyed that. I enjoyed that. One time, I’d been away. 1958? I came back in [19]96. So, I didn’t go to college, but I did grade school and high school. And now, I’m going back. And I said I wouldn’t never come back. And my grandmother—matter of fact—the house that she has here, my daughter lives in now. [Inaudible 36:50] She said, “Why don’t you fix up this little house? Maybe one day you just might come back.” I said, “I ain’t coming back down to this little town!” That was the biggest lie I ever told, cause I was here about ten years. And I moved to Alachua. Alachua’s not big. You know, it’s right up the road or whatever. But I like it there, too. And I’m gonna be retiring next year, so—

	A:	Oh. Congratulations! MO:	Congratulations!

	P:	Well, is that it?





	MO:	Yeah. I think that’s great. Was there anything else you wanted to add?



	P:	I’m just glad to be home. And I come home every year. Twice a year. I’m down here in the summer, then I come back again in December. I spend Thanksgiving with my daughter and my grands up there, and I come back here with my daughter and my grands down here. Every year. Since I been up there, that’s what I been doing. Back and forth. I enjoy it. Like I said, I retired in 1990. That’s what I do. From here to there. If I’m not in Florida, I’m in Virginia. In Williamsburg I stay on the road. I don’t have no strings attached. [Laughter] Nothing holding me down. Yup. I drive. Still driving. Got my own car. I go whenever I want. I’m in good health, thank God. He keeps me. As long as He keep me. Like I said, I’m not [Inaudible 38:30]. I get a little stiff. You know, my knees. I’ve been sitting here for a while, and when I get up my knee’s gonna be a little stiff. But once I start walking, it’ll be okay. [Laughter]

	L:	She does real good. And my sister and I are so happy. [Inaudible 38:44] You going to work today? [Laughter] Cause she goes every single day.

	P:	Every day.



	L:	People there say they wanna be just like her when they grow up. They’re older, too, but they’re not as old as she is.

	P:	Yup. I’m the oldest one in the center. Eighty-eight years. In September I’ll be eighty-nine.

	A:	That’s fantastic.





	P:	Yeah.



	MO:	Well, thank you.



	A:	Ms. Parker, thank you so much. Thank you, Ms. Parker. MO:	Thank you.

[End of Interview]









	Transcribed by:	Marissa Volk, April 15, 2019 Audit edited by:	Sandra Romero May 07. 2019 Final edited by:	Charity Kelly, May 16, 2020