AAHP 520B; Horne; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 520B David Horne Interviewed by Ryan Morini on November 2, 2017

1 hour 12 minutes | 29 pages



Abstract: In this interview, David Horne talks about his experiences on the University of Florida’s campus and the founding of the Black student Union. He is one of the founding member of the BSU. The BSU became a staple for the African American population on campus. Horne was also involved in the Black theater which put on political plays for neighboring middle and high schools. Horne also advocated and pushed for a Black Studies department at the university. He also was one of the organizers for Black Thursday, a protest that was led by students demanding an inclusive place on campus. Horne also talks about his time off campus and spending it on Fifth Avenue.



Keywords: [African American History; Black Student Union; University of Florida; Fifth Avenue; Black Thursday; Black Studies]



AAHP 520B

Interviewee: David Horne Interviewer: Ryan Morini Date: November 3, 2017



	M:	This is Ryan Morini with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. It is November 2, 2017. And I am speaking with Dr. David Horne. Thanks for joining me, again, today.

	H:	You are quite welcome. And anything to help educate more students.



	M:	Well, I appreciate that. So one of the questions I wanted to ask you did describe in the last interview, a lot of your experiences at UF as an undergrad and as a grad student, you were here during the founding of the Black Student Union, is that correct?

	H:	Yes, I was.



	M:	What can I tell you me about that time? Like what kind of led up to founding it?



	H:	Well, my friends, my colleagues, and I, had kept up with what was going on elsewhere in the country in terms of the Cornell students. And trying to get the Cornell administration to accept having a Black Studies department, and Columbia, and San Francisco State. So we were, we’d kept up with what was constantly coming out in the newspapers and Time Magazine, and Look Magazine, about this upsurge of student interests in getting an educational component in American colleges and universities. You start combating this tendency to teach all history was basically White history, the history of Western civilization. And that if you were not a card carrying member of Western civilization then basically the culture that you represented had not done anything. That the old adage that African history should not be taught because Africa was darkness. And darkness could not be subject of history, I mean it was just





complete white washing of history, anthropology, the movement of civilization forward. So we had kept up with information like that and we increasingly had discussions with each other. We were either going to lunch or just hanging out on campus and we decided that we needed to have our own Black student organization because it was the students who were pushing everything. People from Shaw University who had come out of that meeting deciding to create SNCC, the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee. And to push the sit ins, the wait ins, the ride ins, and we decided that at UF we had enough of a student population that we deserved to have a student organization, a Black Student Union. And so we just formed one. It wasn’t a big, complicated issue. About ten of us got together and decided it was about time for us to have a regular organization and we met and decided to fill out the application on campus to be a recognized student organization, and we did it. Pretty straight forward, simple process.

	M:	Sounds like it. And you were saying that students were pushing everything. Was there any faculty support? Or was it really just you on your own at the time?

	H:	It was just us at the time. There were no Black faculty at the time. So we go no help from the faculty per se, although, there were faculty members who were sympathetic. And who, when we went to them and asked for advice, they were always willing to provide it. But mainly, they were in the social sciences and humanities areas. We had some anthropology teachers, we had a number of folk who were in the English department. And of course we had history and psychology, where faculty members seemed to be quite aware of what else was





going on around the country. And having a student organization to be involved in what was happening across the country seemed to be a decent idea.

	M:	And so you started with about with ten students, I think you said? H:	Yes.

	M:	Did you see it grow much after that?



	H:	Yes, I did. Yes, it did. I think at max we—I’m really trying to remember now. We may have had twenty, twenty-five students. And our numbers always got bigger whenever we would announce we were going to have a party. And the numbers always got smaller once we had announced we were going to do some kind of demonstration or some kind of activist activity on campus. And again, we adopted the tactic of laying out what seemed to be a kind of moderate activism that we would ask for the inclusion of African American faculty on campus and we would ask for the increased access to student facilities just like any other student organization. And we would just basically ask for the inclusion of African American participation in the progress of the United States that meant we would try to change some of what was going on in the history classes and in the anthropological classes about the value of African American culture. We understood that a number of the students who were there at the time, their parents were not interested in them involved in any kind of radical activity. They were not interested in the students essentially becoming a problem and making it more expensive on the parents for having them there. People basically—parents had to sacrifice a lot to pay for sending their students to the university. We understood the reluctance of parents to allow their students to get that involved in





stuff that seemed to call negative attention on to them by the administration. So we understood the value of the fact that I remember him listening to us even, through the membership that we should not criticize or complain that students seemed to get very interested in having parties, and in coming to social gatherings, but when you try to have a collective town hall meeting or something to talk about political activities, and what was going on at other campuses, there was far less interest. So instead of fighting that particular aspects of being on campus, let’s use it. Let’s basically have a few parties, let’s let the BSU call the party. And when students would show up, and they always would, we’d go ahead and allow regular party for about forty-five minutes to an hour, and then we’d cut the lights on, lock the door, and turn the music off. And start assigning people tasks, if we had a protest demonstration planned, if we had some activity like going to the president’s office, going to the president’s building during that week, whatever activity we had planned, we would basically start assigning people, this is when we need you to show up, this is what we need you to do. And we’d explain this is not going to get you in academic trouble. Nobody is going to be kicking you out of school. But we would carefully layout why we were doing what we doing and what kind of help we needed. And since we had a captive audience at the time, they listened, and after about an hour of political education, I guess you would call it, then we’d cut the music back on, and let people go back and party. It became a very effective tactic. And we got a lot done. That was how, in effect, we first got a chance to lay out we need to not only get more Black faculty to come here, we need to be involved in any discussion that departments are





going to have about bringing Black faculty, and letting them make a presentation, and if anybody is going to come we have to make sure we show up. They cannot show up to an empty audience. We had to basically-- if we are going to ask for inclusion, more inclusion, we had to make sure we showed up to everything that was connected to that. And, you know, it worked. When we said it was our time to start asking for a Black Studies program that would lead to a department, we actually asked for a department at the very beginning. We wanted a Black Studies department just as they had been setting up in other parts of the county, San Francisco State, Cornell, et cetera. So we had initially asked for that and that just did not go too well at first. But were again, able to, being students ourselves, and still having our own exams and classwork’s, and homework to do, we were always sympathetic to students saying “We can’t get involved in this, we cannot jeopardize our standing at the university.” You know, “We don’t want to have teachers turn against us, we don’t want to be in the newspaper. God! If I’m in the newspaper talking about I’m out here protesting for Black anything my parents are going to come and yank me out of this place. I can’t—we can’t do it. I don’t want to go to FAMU. If I wanted to go to FAMU I would have done that. I came to the University of Florida so I gotta act like I got some common sense. But we were very sympathetic to that but we were also very insistent that in all that you demand or request inclusion the expansion of our inclusion in the regular affairs of UF, that we had to be present, we had to show up, we had to as Frederick Douglass said, “There is no independence, there is no change, there is no progress without struggle.” You have to understand clearly that if you don’t make





a demand, then you’re not going to get anything to change. You are not going to get anything done. And we were very good at reading heroes, historical heroes like W.E.B Du Bois, Fredrick Douglass, at that time. So, it was a heavy time to be a student and try to come up with things that would make some logical sense.

There were some of our members who were a lot more militant sounding, that they wanted to do a little more than just have a protest in front of… I can’t remember the name of the hall, I think it was Reitz Hall. But they wanted to do more than have a protest out in front of the administration building. Some of them wanted to throw some rocks and break some windows, and stuff like that, so we always had to temper, it may sound good at the moment but we have to have some common sense. We are after all, students. And we are being taught to think logically, so, we want to actually have something positive at the end of whatever action we take. And not have everyone kicked out of school or arrested.

	M:	Quick question, so you said you were reading Du Bois and Douglass— H:	Yes.

	M:	Some of the other writers, was that in classes, or is that outside of class. Were there reading groups?

	H:	Outside of classes. Yeah, we did have a reading group. We very much liked Malcom X. We very much liked James Baldwin. And we very much liked Dr. King. So now, we had as part of the BSU activities we had a study group that would be assigned particular readings, and we would come in all and discuss the readings, and how those readings can be applied to where we were. So yeah,





that was our part of it. You had to have a study group. You had to have study sessions.

	M:	And how many people were in that? I mean is that about ten people, too? Or is that?

	H:	Yeah. Yeah, most of what we did revolved around essentially a core of about eight and ten people. We didn’t have a large population of African American students at the time. So, we were talking about between eight and ten people. And, plus we almost at the outset of setting up the BSU we started working with members of the local community, particularly down in Fifth Avenue. But we started trying to make sure we had positive ties with the community so that if we suggested a protest or some kind of physical activity, that they would come and join us. And generally, they did.

	M:	Do you remember any of the folks on Fifth Avenue who you were speaking to at that time?

	H:	Yeah, let me see—vaguely. Some of them were FAMU students who would come home for the weekend, some of them were denizens of Fifth Avenue, some of them were Santa Fe Community College students. Trying to remember names here. No, probably as we talk some names will pop up. But, no, that’s really going way back.

	M:	Understood. I don’t know, did you ever speak to T.A. Wright or Charles Chestnut, or any—

	H:	Absolutely! Charles Chestnut was one of the very strong and well respected community leaders that we sought advice from. Charles Chestnut was very





instrumental in being a mentor or a community mentor for us. And T.A. Wright, too, for that matter. But mainly it was Charles Chestnut.

	M:	Fair enough. And a little bit of a straight question, but, so you mention Malcom X, you mention Baldwin, you mentioned, Dr. King, some people today, especially White people kind of try to pit them against each other as if you need to choose one over the other. Were there debates back then?

	H:	Absolutely.



	M:	Okay.



	H:	The Malcom X seemed to be talking more about in your face, if we want to be respected of men, we have to stand up like men and women, we cannot always seek compromise. We have to sometimes just be unbending and, we have to be consistent and we have to be well read and prepared, if you are going to demand something you have to be ready to follow through and to actually win. Dr. King was much more of a pragmatic, church based leader, who reminded us all of our parents. That generation of folks that said you must learn common sense, you must learn to be polite, and efficient in what you do. Your job is to become very well educated so that you can push the race forward. We all had very, very strong respect, not only for Dr. King and their CLC, but for the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee which was associated with, but not a member of their CLC. We really appreciated what John Lewis and Stokely Carmichael, and that group were doing and pushing. So yeah, Malcom X was a great hero to us, but not the only one. And the idea that we should choose one or the other, or one over the other, or one opposed to the other, no we did not see it that way at all.





They were both products of the situation in which African Americans had to continue with every day, one was seen as a: we got to stand up, you don’t back down, you don’t let people push you around anymore, you’re just not going to take it anymore, kind of a leader; and, the other was a much more of a diplomatic approach but we saw both men representing sections of how to respond to the situation that Black folk had to face in this country every day. No, we didn’t see it as one or the other. We saw it as both.

	M:	And were you ever able to bring any speakers on campus talking about civil rights issues, Black power issues, or was this mostly readings and things like that?

	H:	I know we tried to bring Adam Clayton Powell. We spent a lot of time trying to bring him into the campus but he disappointed us twice. We had made arrangements to come and then something always came up in terms of his. He was still fighting with congress at the time about them extolling him and being sent back by his constituency, being re-voted in. So anyway, he was having his own difficulty at the time but we saw him as being very, very important leader. I think, if I’m not mistaken, I think we got Stokely Carmichael to come on campus, once and if it was not Stokely, cause he had not changed his name to Kwame Ture at the time. It was, I’m almost positive we were able to get him to come to campus and speak to us. Yeah, I’m pretty sure we did.

	M:	Do you remember what the reception was like to that event?



	H:	You mean the size of the crowd, or you mean how the students responded? M:	A little of both, I guess. Or either or.





	H:	If I remember it was a fairly big attendance and, because he was a Southern hero. I mean, besides having been the head of SNCC and being the planner, strategist to create the Lowndes County Freedom party in Lowndes County Alabama as the first all-Black political party in the area, if you want to get African Americans into political office, if you want to get some influence in political decisions being made in your area then you have to get political representation. And since the White primary was then a particular way of rites of passage in most parts of the South, even though, yes, legally you are supposed to be allowed to vote, legally you were supposed to be allowed to participate, the only people you were going to get a chance to vote for would be White folks. It’s a White primary. Basically all the candidates for office will be chosen by a political process that only put White candidates up, “So if you want to choose, you wanted to vote fine, you could only vote for the ones I put in front of you.” There’d be no Black candidates, even in Black areas of Alabama and Mississippi, and South Carolina where you had those Black build areas. You made of had eighty to seventy eight-five percent of the population being Black but you’re still not going to get a chance to elect anybody Black into office. Stokely Carmichael had been involved in setting up that first political organization and he had also been involved in that march, that Mississippi march at which he and Dr. King would compete for the attention of the audience in terms of marking speeches, at every stop. It was great, it was great theater. After which he and Charles Hamilton wrote that book, Black Power. So, no, having Stokely Carmichael there to talk about all of that, his experiences, being the SNCC chair person, experiences,





developing this whole concept called Black Power at the time, it was great! There was a lot of student interest, a lot of discussion. We also, I remember, I think we tried to bring some Foucault, and probably the Black Theater Movement, too.

You know, because having plays and performances was part of the whole consciousness raising practice process we had been involved in. I’m trying to think of who we brought from the Black—I know we did, I know we did. In fact we had our own Black Theater in Gainesville, so we were very much into trying to do political theater. I know we tried to invite some people from the Black Theater Movement into UF. I just can’t remember exactly who right now. It will come to me as we talking.

	M:	Okay. So there was a Black Theater in Gainesville, where was that?



	H:	We had a Black Theater group, I wouldn’t say a Black Theater. We did Guerilla Theater, and we did performances in high schools and junior high schools. And we did some performances at Santa Fe Community College. One way to try to explain to students what was going on, why it was going on, and why we needed to do something different was through theater, that just always worked. So the League of Blackness that we had in Gainesville often used theater performances to get his message out.

	M:	Okay. So this just wasn’t just on campus, though? This group was UF students and folks in town?

	H:	Yeah, from the community, exactly, yeah. M:	Okay.

	H:	It was a combination group.





	M:	Did anyone in it have any theatrical training or was everyone just kind of learning it as they went, or?

	H:	They were learning it as they went. We didn’t have anybody at UF at the time from the Black community that was part of the theater department, either as a student or as a faculty. So, yeah, like I said, Guerilla Theater. This was much more untrained but very enthusiastic theater production. We would write our own stuff, we write our own scripts and we’d do poetry, and we’d do tunes. From our loon we did Day of Absence, we did that whole Day of Absence, play, by Doug Turner Ward. A parody of African American participation in a Southern town, the thesis of the play was what would happen if African Americans suddenly disappeared. If there were no Black folks, what would happen? And it was funny, it’s very, very funny presentation. Yeah, that I remember we did.

	M:	Okay. Interesting. So to back track a little to the BSU and all of the activism. Was there much push back from White faculty or administrators on campus, or?

	H:	Only when we did what was considered to be very radical stuff. When we started pushing about getting a Black Studies department set up we got some pushback. And I got a lot of push back in the History Department because I was kind of set on the idea that we had to change the way that we were teaching American history in the History Department. You know, why talk about reconstruction without talking about Dr. W.E.B Du Bois’s Black reconstruction? That big study he had done. You know, why talk about sociology and history if we were not talking about Dr. Du Bois’s first scientific sociological study in this country? You know, the Philadelphia Negro. I mean, why are not bringing in information like





that? But no, I got into a lot of opposition by at least two or three of the history professors. One of them told me to get out of his class. I’d been invited in as a speaker to talk about how do we bring more Black information into the teaching of American history and I guess he thought I was trying to take over his class that day. No, he basically told me to get out. And, even though I have not always been accused of being diplomatic, I may teach diplomacy, I did not yell at him, I did not curse him that day, I did not do anything which would have damaged the reputation of African American students on campus. I listened to him demonstrate—it was his class, and I could not challenge his authority. I couldn’t challenge what he’d been teaching there. And I had to get out. And I took my papers, backed away from the lectern, walked out. Now, his name, I remember. His name was Dr. Mann. He was a very well established part of the History Department, Dr. McMann, yeah, I remember him. And I don’t remember everybody’s name but I remember him.

	M:	I bet.



	H:	I can as a teacher now, I can understand the kind of how dare you think that you know more than me. How dare you come and challenge me in my own class?

And that was basically his point of view. But he’s inviting me into his class. I hadn’t come in on my own, he’d invited me. But apparently decided that I took too much—I’d took it too far. I didn’t for some reason he didn’t think I’d show the proper respect. I don’t know what he though, I wasn’t coming in there to praise him, and what he’d been teaching, because I’d thought what he’d been teaching was just very, very White. He was teaching White American history. We were not





interested in that. America had not just been built on what White folks did. And it was about time to introduce his students to some other reading material, to some other books, to some other literature, to some other ideas. And that’s what I came in there to do that day. But he apparently thought I’d cross some kind of line in the way I was presented it so he just politely just told me you need to leave my class, you need to get out, we’ve had had enough. I don’t think I was speaking more than ten minutes. I was supposed to have the whole class. But apparently, I really irritated him that day.

	M:	Did that change anything about how you gave presentations after that? Or?



	H:	No. I know I hadn’t done anything to be impolite. I had not really done anything that demonstrated that I didn’t know what I was talking about, or that I didn’t come prepared. I didn’t really remember doing anything to disrespect him, in fact some of his students came after me that afternoon to explain they don’t know why he took that point of view; they didn’t. They really wanted to hear what I had to say. But hey, they had to go with what their teacher said. But yeah, that made a lasting impression on me.

	M:	I would imagine.



	H:	And at the time I was a graduate student in the African Studies Program that Hunt Davis had started, had helped to start. And I was already teaching at Santa Fe, down the street, so it was not like I had never been in front of a classroom before. I had. But yeah, I had never been told to get out of a class, somebodies class, before. That was a first and I don’t think that’s ever happened to me since.





	M:	I hope not. So, one question, if you were teaching at Santa Fe at that time, was there any difference in the campus climates between UF and Santa Fe in terms of what you could and couldn’t talk about, or how it was received, or was it pretty similar?

	H:	No, Santa Fe being a community college and that whole elitism of the university, this is a real university, what you people are teaching over here is basically just a couple steps from high school. But no, we were allowed to teach whatever we wanted, however we wanted. So I was able to experiment and actually develop teaching philosophies, teaching methodologies that worked to get students interested in both reading, asking questions, wanting to do field work. When I introduced them to Rosewood they really got interested in that because it was so close to Gainesville.

	M:	Can I ask, how did you learn about Rosewood? H:	Library.

	M:	Okay.



	H:	One of my consistent assignments as a research assistant for Hunt Davis, I was working on my masters, was to go to the library and go to the library and do research on certain topics. And while I was in there, looking at the History of Florida, and the history of Black White relations in Florida I kind of stumbled into that. I came across that.

	M:	Okay. Do you remember much about your thoughts at the time? I mean—



	H:	Ah, wow, was my main thought. That here was what seemed to be a valiant attempt at setting up a Black township, a way of dealing with an independent





movement since there were certain people in Florida saying, no you can’t, you won’t, you’re not allowed, fine! We’ll just set up our own township, we will basically develop our own opportunities. And of course, that was not allowed. They burned everybody out. That fascinated me that they had done that. I’d already heard about Black townships in Oklahoma, Boley, for example. I didn’t yet know about the Tulsa, Oklahoma case. I didn’t learn about that until much later. But it was just interesting seeing that this had happened in Florida, and right down the street. And as you well know, Florida eventually had to settle, or withdrew a couple of lawsuits over the issue and the Florida legislature eventually decided to pay a form of reparations to the decedents of those families harmed in Rosewood. In fact, Florida still remain the only state that’s done that.

Fascinating.



	M:	It really is. It really is. Can I ask a little more about the actual, they call it Black Thursday now but you know, the day of the actual sit in at the president’s office?

	H:	Go ahead. I’ll tell you what I can and cannot remember.



	M:	Hey, that works for me. What do you remember most vividly? Let’s start there.



	H:	That we had had a very intense discussion among BSU members, about whether to go that far. And Mr. Mitchell had been sent over to try to convince us not to do that, not to have that kind of public demonstration which might embarrass the school, might embarrass some donors to the school. And, you know, we understood why he was being sent over to talk to us. We respected them a lot but we also understood that he had a position that he had to adhere to from the administrations point of view. Your job is to basically to keep the Negros





controlled. Your job is to keep them, if not completely quiet, at least within a certain range. And it’s okay for them to have a few meetings and a few parties but there not supposed to do anything else. So I remember we had a very, very firm intense discussion about whether to take that next level. To actually go up to the president’s office and kind of block them in. you know, because again that’s what they had done on other college campuses. That’s what they had done at Cornell, that’s what they had done at San Francisco State. So we were again, trying to follow the logic, and follow the pattern of behavior of other students on other campuses. Again, this was a whole student movement across the country at the time. So we wanted Florida to be a part of that. So, yeah, they had taken over their administration building so we’d figure we should be able to take over ours. But anyway, everybody in the BSU was not down for that. They were not interested in doing that because they figured—they knew, not just figured, that the police would be there and people gonna be dragged out and arrested, that their pictures would be in the newspaper, and their parents would be coming up the next week to take them out of school because they would have wasted their money. So anyway, we had a real, real long discussion about whether we should do it, and if we were going to do it, whose going to show up? We shouldn’t do it if only three or four people are going to show up. We shouldn’t do it alone. We had to make sure we had some allies on campus and in the community. We could not go up there with just a small handful of people because that would not be taken seriously. So yeah, I remember that, we had a knockdown drag out over whether to do it, and who was going to do it. And in the end, I think the more logical





voices prevailed. For some people wanted a lot more than just go up and take over the president’s office. And, no we were saying we were not thugs, or hooligans, we were students demanding an inclusive place on campus. And, hey it worked out. I mean, we got a lot of support from a lot of students. It was more than just that we were advocating more Black Studies on campus, and that we needed to have a Black Studies center. You had other students saying, we needed to include other issues of student concern that basically they were not being listened to by the administration in anyway. And the students wanted more of a voice on the campus. So we ended up having a lot more student allies than we thought. And, I remember I got arrested right after the protest.

	M:	Well that’s a—do you remember the tear gas, and some of the other, or were you of there by then?

	H:	I was gone before the tear gas, they didn’t tear gas me, no. It had gotten, again, once it got started, more and more students just started showing up for different reasons. They were not all in favor of, or even aware that we were there pushing for a Black Studies program, a department, and more Black faculty members on campus, it was just a student protest, so they just came to join that. Again, some of them were just more instant on other things.

	M:	I see. Were they sort of co-opting it, or were they just kind of—



	H:	We didn’t think they were co-opting it. We thought they were just joining in. M:	Okay.

	H:	And, they had some issues they wanted addressed. Now, I think when they started getting, as I was told later, when some of them started getting pretty loud,





and pretty insistent, that was when the police came and tear gas and stuff. And that wasn’t us. We, the Black Student Union members were simply not interested in that. Some of them were afraid of that in the first place. They were not interested in the police dragging anybody out or anybody being tear gassed, no. From what I was told later, because the demonstration just kept increasing in size and people did not seem to be listening to the administration come out and say, y’all need to go home now, this is over, you’ve made you’re point. When some of the students just wanted to argue with the administrative representatives, that that’s when things just got out of hand. But, by that time they were just not demanding Black Studies, they had gone on to a larger agenda. But no, we never thought it was being co-opted.

	M:	Okay. And this may be a quick question, but I have been told there were actually tanks on University Avenue at one point, do you remember anything about that?

	H:	No, I don’t remember that. Tanks?! On University Avenue? I don’t think so, no. M:	Okay. I just said, I thought I would ask. It’s something that you gotta follow up on.

	H:	Yeah. Yeah, if that happened that’s news to me. I don’t remember. No. No, that don’t even sound right.

	M:	I thought I would check. So, can I ask just a little about who the student allies were? Like how did the BSU, you, go about recruiting—

	H:	Nah. We didn’t. They just showed up. M:	Oh, that’s it. Just—

	H:	Yeah. Yeah, once our small numbers started going into the building and we had let it be known we were going to do it. This is not an on the spot decision. No, we





had put it in the student newspaper. We had passed the words around campus. We had mentioned it in the classes and we were going to protest at the president’s office. We were demanding some specific things about Black Studies and Black faculty. And we were going to show up, and anybody wanted to show up and support us, hey, you’re welcome. And so hey, this is a chance to get in the newspaper, get your picture taken, so some other people showed up. It looked to be kind of spontaneous to us but apparently some people had kind of planned on it. And I don’t think everybody showed up happened to be in support. I think some of the people who showed up came to be the opposition, to kind of protect the sanctity of the administration building and that kind of thing. We didn’t get in any fights with anybody but clearly some people were yelling from the crowed that no, we shouldn’t be there. And we should not be participating in this, we were students and not activists. And this is not some Northern university were they were used to that kind of stuff. In fact, from what I was told, when again, I was gone by then, it was some of these oppositional folk who had gotten into arguments with supporters who go loud, or raunchy and that’s when the police kind of moved in.

	M:	I see. Stirred up the— H:	Yeah.

	M:	Okay.



	H:	We thought they were aging provocateurs, actually. We thought there were some people in the audience who came there to do just that. The reporting in the aftermath was generally negative towards the students. That we should not have





been there, that we should not have done that, we should not have been disrespectful and impolite to the administration. And again, that’s was when we in thinking back over all of it, that’s when we decided no, those folk were sent there, to stir something up, to make us look bad.

	M:	Makes sense. So, I mean, what do you remember about the aftermath of that because it’s not long after that you have a massive student withdraw from the university, and some faculty, I mean, what went into that? Do you remember that period, and the decision making there?

	H:	No, only that all of the BSU students that had been involved in demanding more Black access, more Black inclusion, the vast majority of them either got suspended, or kicked out of school, or their parents came and took them out. But essentially, the first response was you must be punished kind of thing. And we are not going to do what you had demanded anyway. And at the beginning of the fall term of the next academic year, everything we had asked for, the president put into place. But the people who had been the instigators were mainly not on campus anymore. I was a graduate student so they didn’t kick me out. But they kicked out a bunch of other folk.

	M:	So they undergrads were the ones who kind of got— H:	Yeah, they got punished.

	M:	Okay.



	H:	But no, a lot of the other stuff I wasn’t there.



	M:	And Roy Mitchell, what happens to him in all of this? H:	He got fired.





	M:	You remember that very well?



	H:		I remember he got fired, yes, I do. Because I had already told, I remember telling Mr. Mitchell, you know they gone fire you don’t you? Because you didn’t stop us. They sent you over here to stop this student action. You didn’t stop us. You know they gone fire you. And remember him smiling and saying, well, they might. You know, but this won’t be the last job I have. I wasn’t hired to kiss their behind. I was hired to come and try to make a difference. And, hey, I think I did. I came and talked to y’all about it. And, once it became clear that you knew what you were doing and you were not interested in vandalism, you were not talking about coming over and harming any property, they hey, I tried the best. I tried to stop y’all from doing it, y’all decided y’all were going to do it anyway? Hey, what could I do? If they fire me, they fire me, and they did. So yeah, no, we had a little discussion. He knew he was going to be fired before they actually came in and delivered the message. A very good man by the way. A very good man.

	M:	It sounds that way. Well, so I believe the person they hired— H:	Afterwards.

	M:	Yeah. I think it was a man by the name of John Boatwright if I’m not mistaken. Do you recall that? Is that correct? Or do you remember him at all?

	H:	I don’t remember him at all. No, I was then talking about trying to go law school. M:	Okay. So do you remember the beginnings of the Institute of Black of Culture? H:	Vaguely.

	M:	Okay.





	H:	I remember that it opened. I know I did not attend, that first day I wasn’t at Gainesville at the time. But, I remember that it opened, and I remember we all smiled at hey, they had got something done. Hopefully, the institute would work well and you know do something decent. But no, yeah, I was not there at the grand opening.

	M:	Okay. Did you ever have many interactions with the institute before you graduated, or were you kind on your—

	H:	No, I didn’t. I was already on my way out the door. Now the first director, we had been instrumental in getting him hired as a faculty member.

	M:	Okay.



	H:	So, we thought the institute would be in good hands.



	M:	Can I ask a little about that? Do you remember much about getting him hired? I mean?

	H:	Yeah. I remember that he had come to campus and made a very, very good, and not just professional presentation but an entertaining presentation about African American culture and music, and art. And so, we were—I remember that we had made sure he had a large audience. And we were all rewarded, it was a very good presentation. And we, as a group of students we had sent in a recommendation that they hire him. I don’t know whether they, anybody paid any attention to our recommendation, but we definitely did that. We liked to write. We were interested in writing stuff, and making sure we had a presence more than just talking out and getting out megaphone.





	M:	Understandable. Okay, so what do you remember about the beginnings of the African American Studies Program?

	H:	That it looked good on paper but we were concerned it looked kind of weak. It did not look like it was going to have a lot of influence on the curriculum, on changing that Eurocentric viewpoint in the number of the courses. We thought it was nice that they were going to do that but we were just concerned that it wasn’t going to have enough teeth to get a lot of stuff done.

	M:	Where you able to express any of those concerns to any administrators or? H:	No. they knew what they were setting up.

	R:	Yeah. Yeah, I suppose they did.



	H:	It was window dressing, the way we saw it. It was nice. We liked the title. And it was nice that people had decided, let’s get this done, but we saw it as window dressing. There was nothing in the masterplan for the program that seemed like it was going to do anything more than simply be there, be a meeting place, be a vehicle to bring in some speakers, but we didn’t really see it helping African American students.

	M:	So in the end, overall, do you think the BSU and the students who participated saw the sit in’s as a success, or?

	H:	Yes, they did. Yes, they did. They did. There had been some sacrifices there’d been a lot of intense discussions and a lot of courage on the part of some students to actually step out and get something done. Yeah. In the end, yeah, that was the feeling that we had actually gotten something done. When people got kicked out in school, that’s not what they felt like, but the very next beginning





of that academic year when the president had did everything we had asked him to do, just claimed victory, claimed that he had come up with it on his own. He didn’t give any credit at all to the students. But we knew. We knew that basically he was following everything that we had asked him to do.

	M:	So if I can ask, what would you say to students—what do you think that students on campus now should know about that period? And, I guess and with the struggles? Yeah.

	H:	That University of Florida at one time was very much impart of the nationwide movement to create more of an academic presence for Black Studies and for Black involvement, they you would think about now. There seems to be far less involvement now, even with a lot more permanent part of the university. There seems to be a lot less student activism, and a lot more we gone stand up, we are going to fight the power type kind of thing. But they need to understand that there were students at a time who were clear there would be some negative consequences but they were willing to stand up anyway. They were willing to demand, what seemed to be fair and equitable inclusion at the university. And some of the advantages that students have on campus now just date right back to that, to that time period. And any interest that they have in studying that, I think is well worth while.

	M:	I mean do you think there is any difference in the role of direct action today, than there was at that time?

	H:	No. except that the consequences of direct action then was a lot more foreboding than they are now. Students being threatened with expulsion, students being





threatened by physical harm. It’s just not the same now. There is a lot less of that. There is a lot less [inaudible] involved in making a decision to stand up for what you consider to be justice, equity, and fairness. There were members of the BSU who were actually afraid of our going on and taking a stand, and refused to go out with us. They said, hmm, nah, I’m with you, I agree with you, I’m not going with you. I’m not going to get beat up. I‘m not going to get hurt over this. I’m going to class. We had always to be aware that there was a distinct possibility and that the police was going to beat you up or some other group of crazies defending the swamp, would come and try to drag you off the administration steps saying that you were disrespecting what University of Florida’s good for.

That recognition of immediate consequences, immediate negative consequences was always there. And people took actions, made decisions and moved forward anyway, in spite of that.

M:  Thank you. I guess the last question I would have off hand right now, is actually a little bit of a straight question, but Fifth Avenue itself, do you remember any of the businesses. I mean, do you remember going out to eat there, or going to the—

H:  All the time. The main place, what was it? It wasn’t mommas, what do we call that?

M:   Mom’s Kitchen?



	H:	Mom’s Kitchen! That’s what we called it. Mom’s Kitchen, yeah, that was the place!

M:   Mhm.





	H:	A lot of time was spent in Mom’s Kitchen and around Mom’s Kitchen, outside. We did most of the debate and political analysis outside on the sidewalk outside of Mom’s Kitchen, but, yeah, we’d always go in and get our food. [Inaudible 01:07:29] was around and yeah, it was a main hangout for a very long time in Gainesville before I showed up at the university and after I left, it was still. Mom’s was there and Mom’s was kind of the center of the community. Charles Chestnut stayed right down the street and we sometimes just leave Mom’s Kitchen and go down, and go talk to him. He was right on the corner.

	M:	Do you remember a favorite dish from Mom’s, or?



	H:	Everybody got the hamburgers and the fries. And everybody got the—they had some very good chicken. Some very good fried chicken. It was a delicacy that a lot of people showed up for.

	M:	Do you remember the owner herself? Anything about her? Or and of the folk—?



	H:	We liked her a lot she was cantankerous and did not take a whole lot of back talk from folk but we were—it was her daughter who was there a lot more than she was. We had a lot more interaction with the daughter.

	M:	I see.



	H:	Than we did her. But, nah, hey Mom’s Kitchen is remembered fondly. Somebody told me not to long ago, either it burned down or closed or something.

	M:	Yeah. It closed. The city owns the property now but it’s just a lot they demolished it a while back but—

	H:	They should have done a historical designation. M:	Mhm.





	H:	Because it was a part of the real community history of Gainesville.



	M:	Yeah, that it was. We’re doing what we can to at least do some oral histories about it. But yeah, Mom’s was the place. Is that where the reading group met and all of that?

	H:	No, no, no. Mom’s was the place for food and discussion. M:	Okay.

	H:	No, we dealt with the meetings for reading and for discussion about books and stuff, no we did that on campus.

	M:	Okay, this was just general discussion at Mom’s. H:	Yeah.

	M:	Okay.



H:  This was about community involvement and, you know what was happening in the country, what was happening in Florida. Yeah, we’d do general discussion what was happening with the university football team, basketball team, yeah, it was just hang out. It was the place where you would just run into people.

M:  I gotcha. So I think that covers most of the questions I had for today. Was there anything you wanted to add?

	H:	No. That kind of did it. And, I think you’re probably hearing fire engine stuff. But that’s because I’m on outside and my wife has decided to graciously do me a favor and come get back in the car, so she’s finished with her appointment so I can leave the parking lot now. But no, I do really have any other questions. I’m glad that there’s some kind of sustained special interest in recording this and





putting it into some kind of archival space for students to be able do some research on it, yeah.

	M:	And that’s the idea. Well, then if it’s okay with you I’ll stop the recorder at this point.

	H:	That’ll be fine.



	M:	Alight well, thank you very much.









[End of recording]





	Transcribed by:	Juliette Barbera January 5, 2018 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero July 8, 2019

	Final edit by:	Sandra Romero, May 21, 2020