AAHP 120; Gant; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 120 Mary Huntley Gant African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on August 22, 2010 23 minutes | 14 pages



Abstract: Mary Gant was born in Ty Ty, Georgia, and later moved to Perry, Florida and attended Jerkins High School. She describes the importance of what she learned at Jerkins, and some of the community dynamics that were part of the school. She also laments the change in a sense of community in contrast to what she experienced when she was growing up. She offers advice to the current generation, and also ruminates on the state of racism in the present day.





Keywords: [African American History; Tift County, Georgia; Taylor County, Florida; Jerkins High School]



Standards

1. SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.









































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 120

Interviewee: Mary Huntley Gant Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: August 22, 2010



	W:	This is Marna Weston with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program on August 22, 2010 at the Jerkins reunion. Actually, we’re at New Brooklyn Missionary Baptist Church in Perry, and I’m speaking with Mary Gant. Ms.Gant, thank you for speaking with me today.

	G:	You’re welcome.



	W:	Could you please tell me your date and place of birth?



	G:	Ty Ty, Georgia. That’s spelled T-Y, Georgia. I was born in Ty Ty, Georgia. It’s right, maybe few miles from Tifton, Georgia. I was born there on June 19, 1942.

	W:	And who were your mom and dad?



	G:	My mommy is Willie C. Now, she was Willie C. Mickens at the time. My father is Arthur Huntley, Jr.

	W:	And were they both from Ty Ty or where were they from?



	G:	Both from Georgia. But my mom was going to school in Moultrie. That’s where my father’s from—that’s how they met. Moultrie, Georgia.

	W:	Where was she from before she came to Moultrie? G:	Ty Ty. Yeah.

	W:	Now let’s talk about your mom’s mom and dad for a second. Who are they?



	G:	Willie and Eva Mickens. My grandpop, I don’t know where he was born but—and my grandmother is from also from that part of Georgia.

	W:	Moultrie?



	G:	They was married till my grandpop died. And then my grandma is Eva Mickens and my grandpop was Willie Mickens.





	W:	Okay, and where were they from? G:	Georgia.

	W:	Okay, all from Georgia



	G:	All from Georgia, all from Georgia in the beginning. They later moved to Florida, but they all from Georgia.

	W:	Okay now do you know anything about your grandparents’ parents?



	G:	Yes, her name was Lessie—Lessie Hankerson. We came from Hankerson’s. And my grandpop was [Inaudible at 1:50] Hankerson, which he migrated from slavery when he was little and he ended up in Miami, Florida. Then he got a job, transferred him back to Ty Ty that’s where he met my grandma Nessie. And they were married till they both died. And then from there, from the Hankersons, came my grandma and her five siblings, and then we’re the third generation.

	W:	Great now do you know anything back further from that? G:	No.

	W:	Okay that’s pretty good though. Most people can only go back to their grandparents.

	G:	Yeah I know my great-grandpop yeah. Yup.



	W:	So now why are you here this weekend for the Jerkins Historic Marker Dedication and class reunion? Why are you here?

	G:	Yeah for the Jerkins Marker Dedication, it wasn’t really a reunion, it was just to delegate that building to make it a monument, and that’s why I’m here this weekend.

	W:	Okay and how do you feel about having been here this weekend?





	G:	Wonderful, I think it’s a wonderful thing. Especially—you know a town like Perry, Florida, a small town, we need all the education we can get. And it is educational, and I think it would be a—it’s a great honor for the younger generation after us.

	W:	Did you take a lot of pride in being a Jerkins High School product as you went out into the world?

	G:	Oh yeah I was proud. I remember when I was younger and I went to—when I left I graduated in 1961, and I moved to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. There I attended like secretarial skills school and I was so proud that the average kid in the class couldn’t even spell. Because when I finished Jerkins I was typing seventy words a minute, because we had a fantastic typing teacher; could do a hundred words in a minute. And we learned on blind, raggedy, typewriters. And when I went into this class I said, “Well I’m over here with all these city folks, they could at least spell simple words like ‘principal.’” So I was really proud because our teachers, they walked the floor, they didn’t sit. They walk. I mean if you did anything, your mommy’s gonna know it, your daddy’s gonna know it, everybody in the neighborhood is gonna know it! So the teacher was more like our friends or our mothers. You know back in my day, which I was in the [19]50s—yeah [19]50s— we was poor and we didn’t even know it, because we was raised, the neighborhood raised us. If I needed some flour or tomato or something, you know we were happy. As kids we had respect, we had prayer in school. You know and I was a cheerleader four years; four straight years with it. Our football team the Jerkin Bisons. One year I was gonna miss football. I was an honor student for four straight years. You know we had the best math teacher, the best





English, and we were happy. If we weren’t, we didn’t know it. So when we got out to the world, all this stayed up here like a computer. We didn’t have a hand computer, but we had a head computer back in the day.

	W:	Do you know the body systems and all the bones? Did you take Coach Turner? G:	I took it but I forgot.

	W:	But you knew when you called on you. G:	[Laughter] You had better.

	W:	Well it’s such an amazing thing that your classmates have shared all those stories over this weekend. People are now saying, and I’ve heard it from community members, that Jerkins’ greatest export was its students. You left here and went in the world and everybody was so much better than other people when they got there.

	G:	I was.



	W:	What can we attest that to? Why were you all so good?



	G:	I think it was the teachers. We had good teachers that would grind to you. If you couldn’t get something, we had slow kids back then just like we have now, the teacher would stay after class with you. We didn’t know anything. We wasn’t blessed to have tutoring, so our teachers did the tutoring. Our teachers sat with you and say, “Four times four is sixteen, do you get it boy? Boy, you got it?” When you did your times tables you went up and you had to face the blackboard. My buddy couldn’t say, “Hey, Mary, hey.” Unh-uh, you had to get. You had to know it in here. So in order to do that, they did whatever needed to be done. We had a teacher named Ms. Jay—she didn’t play. If you said we gonna do four





times—I mean, your fours and your six times today—and baby you better know ‘em. If you didn’t, you had to stay late, the kids would tease you. See, embarrassment to us back then, we had a lot of pride. We didn’t wanna be in the second grade and didn’t get promoted to the third grade. So we did our very best with what we had.

	W:	Why do you think that’s lost—or first, do you think that’s lost in today’s schools and if so, why do you think so?

	G:	I think because of the media. Let a child speak his mind and that’s good.



Teachers can’t be as free as they were with us. If I was upset, I did something wrong the teacher could slap my hand or give me a couple licks of punishment for that day.

	W:	That’s a law suit now.



	G:	Now you can’t. And these kids going to class, and cussing teachers out and doing whatever they want. They parents go there. Not all parents now, when I speak I’m not speaking a hundred percent, but basically the ones that need it, you know like the lower income families, raised in a home with no father or mother. But back in the day, see, in my day we had parents with eight to nine kids with no husband, and every one of them turned out to be something. So it’s different. The media can’t do this to kids. Let a kid speak his mind. Kids now taking their parents to court. Now when I was coming up, your mother is your mother. Your father is your father. I don’t care what they say or what they did, you had respect for your elders. Now, they don’t. So they don’t understand, that it’s hurting the child for them not to get a basic education. You need a basic





education. Even if you don’t go to college and you say, “Well I wanna be an electritioner, or a this or this or that.” Now when I left, like I said I left at twelfth grade, I did secretary skills school, I did office practice school. Since I was a secretary I took an extra English course 101 and 102. And I got good jobs, all the way up till I got old and didn’t wanna work no more—retire. But you don’t have to go four or five years, but you gotta do something. Even if you don’t, and just have kids, you gotta read for your kids. You gotta know how to find out what do this word mean so you need to be educated regardless. But now you go up to a teacher, she say something about your child, and they wanna fight. You have the lay a prayer at church this morning, ask God to protect her, she don’t know who coming through the door. So we lost all respect I think. I think we just lost that humbleness, that love that families and neighbors had back in my day. You know I could walk along the street with a boy, he better not hug me in the day time.

Two of us walking, he carry your books.



	W:	Gotta be some space.



	G:	He better wait till it gets dark and get around the corner. But now, they do stuff that like they want you to see them. They curse, they use the bad language, they want you to hear! They’ll look to make sure you do hear them. So that’s the difference I think. I think it’s the younger parents. I don’t what it is with these parents, they just not—I think a lot of it has to do with them not putting God first too, because back in our day even we always feared God. I remember my grandmother, we used to be going to church and my mother had to work a lot of Sundays. And we would meet some guys—excuse me—that hung out all night.





And when they see my grandmother coming they say, “Hi Miss Eva,” and they kinda reach down in their pocket and pull out an old balled up dollar said, “here Miss Eva, put that in the Church for me.” They feared the Lord. But nowadays people don’t fear God no more. And that comes from the young folks. Hold up, now you take people my age, I’m sixty-eight years old. Yes, so you take people my age and back, we fear the Lord. I don’t care what I’ve done. I don’t dance to clubs a couple nights all night. But it was a time. I said, “Oh Lord I’m coming in here now.” But I think that’s the number one, because God is over everything. If you just give Him a little bit, He don’t expect you to go all holy in a day. But He gives you five senses, a sixth sense, that say, “Now I’m not going down that road. There’s smoke behind it, there might be a fire.” But kids don’t have no sense of direction now. I think it’s within the home. We got so many—Lord forgive me and help me—we got so many of our Black young men in jail. And we have no power. See you don’t understand—if you is taking off, locked up, and say we had ten good men and we could have had eighty good men, the power is weakened. You know it’s weak! We don’t have no power. And I think that’s a lot of it. I really do. And then I wanna beat butt no more see? See, when I was coming up, our parents kicked butt. You either do, and you feared your mom and daddy. Your mom could just look at you, and you showed respect. Because, see, you didn’t know that much about God, only what they told you. So you had to fear something, a someone, a somebody. And then nowadays, after you grew up then, you feared God. You say, “I ain’t gonna do that because God might get





me.” You said that when you was a little boy. Your momma had you scared on it or what? Certain things you wouldn’t do. The other kids couldn’t make you do it.

	W:	Still.



	G:	You still have a few people that did stuff, but you said, “No boy, my daddy gonna get me, my momma gonna get me.” And you wouldn’t do it! But nowadays, it don’t hardly take no pushing now. They just do. Whatever come to they mind they just do. And I think that’s a lot of it.

	W:	What other clubs and organizations were you involved with when you were in high school at Jerkins? What kind of stuff did you do?

	G:	Glee club. Sung in the glee club, couldn’t sing a lick. They were gonna leave me on them trips [Laughter] Like I said I was a cheerleader four years. We was in what you call it? Council. Some council that we had president, vice president—

	W:	Student council?



	G:	Student council—I was in that. We didn’t have a whole lot of stuff when I was in school. But we did have those things.

	W:	And what there was, you was in it.



	G:	I was in it. I played basketball one year. That’s all, that’s all we had. W:	Those are exercises in leadership, wouldn’t you say?

	G:	Of course yes. And besides, being in Honor Society was the most honorable one for me. You know because that’s meaning you an A student. And when we have parades that day, we have a float say Honor Society, and then I’d be the one to ride on that float [Laughter]. They made like a—I think we say shook it to the





moon one year. Had me tied to it with the tights and all, that’s an honor to be smart. [Laughter]

	W:	Well with all these experiences, what is your personal definition of what leadership is?

	G:	Oh, let me see. I think, I think maybe humbleness. I think being humble, understanding, kind but firm. But you gotta be educated. You got to know. You need your education—that’s priority. And you have to be like I say, kind but firm. Know what step to take, when to take them like that.

	W:	And you’ve learned that at Jerkins High School?



	G:	Oh yeah, I think I learned everything at Jerkins High School. Because our teachers taught us not only how to spell and arithmetic and read, but they taught us how to stand up, look somebody in the eye when you talk to them and we don’t have to hold our head down no more. They taught us a lot of so many things that I even had to use it during my job, at my work. In my work place a lot of times I even use it. Taught you to be firm. When they taught you that—even though it wasn’t directly at the kids, and when my daughter was born—I used all that to raise my daughter, she came out good.

	W:	So they prepared you for life?



	G:	Yeah they prepared you for life; those along with your parents and your neighborhood. Because I left Perry when I was eighteen and went to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. I never got in trouble, I never been to jail, I never did drugs. I was able to travel that city, take buses, read signs by myself, and not talk to the wrong people on my job interviews and places, because of Jerkins High





School says, “Walk tall. Stand up girl like a hill.” And I did, and I wasn’t even afraid. I wasn’t.

	W:	They’re talking about having another mass reunion in 2012 and keeping the spirit and motivation of this activity for Jerkins going. What are your expectations over the next two years and beyond for what’s gonna happen with the Jerkins Community Center and the Perry community coming together around Jerkins High School?

	G:	I hope so. If the Lord will it, I’m here in 2012. I will attend and I’ve already spoken to Dr. Collins and told him I’m not an expert on my computer, but if he needed me I could do like labels do mailings, I don’t have to be in Perry to do that. I could do the mailings. I could do labels to mail out the information for him. I said anything he need I told him to call me because I’m retired, and I do have a little time I could work on the computer, and told him I’d be glad to help. And I just pray though, that we have more participation. We have a lot of people here right in Perry that didn’t participate, that went to Jerkins, and graduated from Jerkins. And I hope and pray that we as a people can have more togetherness and support for the ones that are trying; not complain. People don’t understand—the more you have, the more power you have. See, I’m a single mother, and I take my son to school. If I had a husband, my husband, and a mom, you know how much prouder that boy would feel? It’s the same thing. We need to come together as a people. Martin Luther King died trying to instill that in us. Some of us don’t have it. You know you don’t expect everybody—some will never, but the





majority I’m praying for that will. Especially in Taylor County, because we can’t fight alone you know?

	W:	Now do you think you might be a unique person with this spirit though because you graduated from high school in 1961? When you were a junior in high school, that’s when the lunch counter incidents, and in [19]61 there was the freedom riders and maybe you were just part of a unique era where people think of power and organization and freedom. How will you respond to that comment?

	G:	No you mean I was—



	W:	I’m saying that the times made you the person that you are in thinking about power and organization.

	G:	No I think it because Kennedy got killed during that little time. That was very hurtful. Then Martin Luther King, but I look at it this way, everything happen for a reason. So if you look back, we shouldn’t look on Martin Luther King’s death, but what he stood for, what he told us, what he preached. Just like with Jesus Christ. He don’t want you to remember his death. He want you to remember his resurrection, because he’s here with us now. So we can look back on the things that happened with bad things and make good of it. Don’t dwell on them. Martin Luther King wanted us to move forward, you see? And that’s how I look at life that way. I’ve been through stuff myself but I let none of it—it’s not gonna help me to say, “Oh Lord, the Lord of myth, no he didn’t.” Whatever we get in, it’s your fault. The Lord give you a choice, you chose. So I think that’s how I really got through, not only those crazies, but the things that happened in my life. I





didn’t have it always perfect. Sixty-eight so I’ve been through here and there, roundabout, but I came through with the Lord’s help.

	W:	Do you remember where you were when you heard that Dr. King had been killed?

	G:	Yes. I was in—what year was it? That’s how I’ll make sure. W:	It was April 4, 1968.

	G:	1968. I was married. My daughter, yeah I remember, I remember. We were at home, and my brother-in-laws—one of my brother-in-laws is very religious Christian—and I remember he dimmed the lights and we started to pray for his wife and family, I remember. I think at that time I was like maybe twenty-eight, I remember. And that whole thing was just quiet when you go out. I didn’t go to work either. I think I took a couple days off of work.

	W:	And they were burning stuff too weren’t they?



	G:	Yeah, on Ridge Avenue. Up on Ridge Avenue there was like a shopping little, on Ridge Avenue and Philly. Boy they took TVs—they did a riot, this big riot in Philadelphia. I guess it’s they way of fighting back. But all the churches I remember, the church up from me where I used to go, everybody was just praying and only in certain areas was it rowdy like that. Most areas was real quiet. You couldn’t hear nothing. But it was very very sad. Even when I see now when they show the films, I get this sadness, because you’re human. Regardless of what he died for, you still thinking about, especially when you’re Black and you’re born before it was integrated, you can’t help but go back there. Sometime now in my life at sixty-eight I see things that happen right in Tampa that is just





like it was when I was fifteen. So you can never forget it, but it’s why I’m saying we need to come together as a people so it won’t keep happening. If it does, not enough to realize it. Maybe a little black spot over here, a spot over here, but not in a high percentage, and now it’s starting to happen again in a high percentage. Right there in Tampa, where I live.

	W:	Ms. Gant this is fascinating I’d like to continue this interview. I think little man has himself a job or something to get to. He’s telling me about the time and all in my ear, so I’d like to say on behalf of the Sam Proctor Oral History Program thank you very much for this opportunity.

	G:	I thank you for having me.



	W:	And I’d like to close the interview to give the person I speak with the opportunity for your final privilege. If you have a comment about the interview or something that happened over the weekend just let that go right now and when you finish that’ll complete out interview when your thoughts are done.

	G:	Not really. I just hope they, Taylor County, what’s it called? The council—what you call it? What’s the committee?

	W:	Taylor County Leadership.



	G:	Leadership committee—I pray and wish them the best of luck, so this, other words, the Jerkins the conian would grow and grow, and by 2012 we have more participation, so all we come together. Like I said, where there’s more togetherness there’s power. Thank you for having me. [Laughter]

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Sandra Romero, September 3, 2015 Audit-Edited by:	Jennifer Romero, October 16, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 19, 2019