AAHP 273; Yulee; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 273 Jason Yulee

African American History Project (AAHP) Interview conducted by Jonathan Fischer on July 19, 2012

44 minutes | 23 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Mr. Jason Yulee, a U.S. Army veteran, discusses his experience enlisting in the military, being deployed to Iraq, and his life after service. More specifically, he outlines his motivation for joining the military, describes his family’s history of military involvement, and speaks of his sentiments concerning basic training and deployment. Mr. Yulee also highlights his educational experience following his service, along with the time he spent working at the Veterans Affairs office at Santa Fe College and the University of Florida. Additionally, he discusses how he believes military service is presently perceived in society and the impact it has had on his life, before examining the role his own race played into how he was treated in the army.



[Keywords: African American History; Live Oak; Armed Forces]



















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 273

Interviewee: Jason Yulee Interviewer: Jonathan Fisher Date: July 19, 2012



F:  My name is Jonathan Fisher; I am doing an interview with Jason Yulee for the Samuel Proctor Oral History program. You want to go ahead and tell us where you’re born, your basic info, stuff like that?

	Y:	Well, I’m from a small town in Florida named Live Oak. It’s about an hour north of Gainesville, if you’re unfamiliar with the city. It’s a very small town. Probably around, when I was growing up, about 6,000 people total. Maybe a little more, I might be missing a couple people here and there. But, that’s pretty much all I got. I went to Suwannee High School. Graduated in 2003, and that’s when I enlisted in the armed forces, more specifically the army, in 2003.

	F:	How old are you? Y:	I am twenty-seven.

	F:	All right, let’s move onto your military service because that is one of the prime focuses of this interview. You enlisted, correct?

	Y:	Yes.



	F:	So, you enlisted personnel? Y:	Uh-huh.

	F:	Where were you living when you were enlisted?



	Y:	I was living at home with my mom and dad. I enlisted right after high school and then joined the service. So, I was still in Live Oak and my MEPS station, which is the place where you go to begin your training and sign all your contracts for the military, was in Jacksonville.

	F:	Oh, okay. Why did you join?





	Y:	I joined because I was a pretty undisciplined kid. I wasn’t a bad kid; I just didn’t really know what I wanted to do. I mean, I kind of had some opportunities to do other things, but my dad suggested that I join the military. I had two older brothers who had been in the military. I come from a pretty long line of military personnel. I had two uncles who did twenty-seven years in the military. So, once I graduated from high school I was trying to decide what I wanted to do with my life, and the military gave me the opportunity to not only serve my country, but kind of give me purpose as well.

	F:	When you speak about purpose, part of that was in regards to–you saw the army as the place to gain more discipline in your life?

	Y:	Yes. It definitely was an opportunity for me to not only to go out and see a little bit of the world, but to get out on my own, make my own decisions, and then under the realm of making my own decisions, gain some discipline and leadership experience.

	F:	Ok and you said it was kind of like a family tradition for military service. You were in the army, did people from your family join multiple branches, or did you have some people in the Navy?

	Y:	Well, in my immediate family, it’s kind of an inadvertent tradition. None of us joined thinking, oh, I want to join just because my dad did or because of my uncles. But, in my immediate family, I have four brothers and two sisters. My two older brothers were in the Army. My dad was in the Army. My dad’s two brothers were also, in the Army. But, then my younger brother joined the Marines. So, it was in my immediate family that was pretty much an army family, except for my





younger brother who was a Marine. But, I do have other extended family members, I have an uncle on my mom’s side who’s also in the Army, but I have an uncle on my mom’s side who is in the Air Force and my grandfather served in the Navy.

	F:	What were the, if you can remember, the first days of your service like after shipping off to basic?

	Y:	Well, after going to basic, basic was pretty standard. For anybody who has never been in basic, it’s a lot of shouting the first day. A lot of, basically, team building things the drill sergeant focuses to create kind of a cohesive unit between their recruits, so they know what to expect once they get to the units. I remember saying be out a little out of place just because the experience was a little foreign to me. I mean my dad yelled at us a little bit, not anything out of the norm for a parent correcting a child, but other than just kind of a hostile—I wouldn’t say hostile—except for kind of a very aggressive setting, I wasn’t very used to it other than playing football in high school.

	F:	What did it feel like those first days?



	Y:	It was very off putting. I didn’t know how to act sometimes. When they’re yelling, it was very uncomfortable at times, but after you complete it you realize that was just part of the process. To make you uncomfortable, but to help you understand that there’s going to be times where you’re uncomfortable but you still have to make those decisions.

	F:	So, basic was the first stages of it—you kind of felt like that, but after that did it kind of come together a little bit more? Like you got used to it?





	Y:	Well, the process is like any process where you’re unfamiliar with it in the beginning. I did have relatives serve, like I said earlier. But, every Army—or military—experience is unique on its own. Because you come there, you don’t really know what to expect, you know they’re going to be yelling at you at some point just from horror stories that you hear from other people who have served. Then, you get there at it’s actually happening to you, and you’re trying to figure out what to do, where you want to go, who to listen to, who not to listen to, and how to act. But, then, as it progresses you realize that it is just a process to turn you into what you need to be to function in the military, and then you become used to that process and you become part of the organization and part of the process itself. It just becomes almost inherent.

	F:	You spoke about drill sergeants. You remember them in particular or anything about them?

	Y:	Yes, I do remember my drill sergeants, specifically. The one that was more of the enforcer, as we like to call him, was Drill Sergeant Goswick, who was very loud and yelled all the time, and he was kind of the guy that pushed us to be better, that pushed us to understand what we needed to do. Basically he was just, like I said the enforcer. I remember him specifically, he was so loud. I remember all the drill sergeants too, but they were more of a training type. They would get up in your face, be a little aggressive sometimes as well, but they were more of the, hey this is what you need to do, make sure you understand it, and then do it to the best of your ability.





	F:	How did you get through basic? Was it just for a bigger goal? What drove you to get through it?

	Y:	Determination. I always told myself— I heard stories about basic training, I knew it was going to be a little difficult, but I knew I wanted to get through it. I knew I wanted to get to my unit. I knew I wanted to participate in whatever my unit had in store for me, so that was just the first step. You can’t get to AIT or to your unit without completing. So, basically the drive just to get to the next step is what pushed me through. I don’t like to quit, I’m not that type of person. So, I just pushed myself through.

	F:	And you were deployed, obviously during your enlistment. Which areas were you deployed to?

	Y:	I deployed to Iraq in 2006-2007, right around the southern border of Iraq. I was there for seven months.

	F:	Do you remember what it was like arriving there?



	Y:	I do. By the time I got there, there was a lot of established things. We weren’t out in the middle of nowhere, at some points we were, but it was mostly because of my job I was on base a lot. I didn’t venture out a lot into the area. I’m also the communications solder, so my job was to set up comms for any of the forces who were on the base to make sure that they could communicate with everyone who was doing missions. So, I spent a lot time on the base not really getting to see as much of the country as I would like. But, it definitely was a different experience because that was the first time I had ever been to another country or pretty much left the States at all.





	F:	You said your job was to set up comms? Was that your job most of the tour?



	Y:	Yes, that was my job the entire tour. I was on the team. We set out comms in our area, and then we did rotations and shifts making sure comps stayed up and providing whatever communicational support that anybody needed pretty much on the base.

	F:	So, during that deployment you didn’t directly see combat?



	Y:	Not, during that one. Besides being mortared, it wasn’t too bad. F:	So, you actually got hit by mortar fire on the base?

	Y:	Yes, there was mortar fire on the base, but it was never so bad that I really thought I would be in too much danger. I mean, it’s always a little off putting. It’s always a little scary whenever it gets close to you, but we didn’t lose anybody when I was there. It was a pretty good deployment.

	F:	You didn’t lose anyone in your unit either? Y:	No.

	F:	That’s good. Do you have any really memorable experiences about that deployment?

	Y:	It was good deployment for my team because we kind of became closer. We spent a lot of time with each other. We did whatever we could to support the unit that we were attached to and I don’t know. I can’t really explain it. It was just a good time for us.

	F:	A good bonding experience pretty much? Y:	Yeah.

	F:	Did you get any medals, rewards, or citations for that deployment?





	Y:	I don’t think so. Well, I did receive the army commendation medal after I got back. That wasn’t specifically related directly with that deployment. That was mostly for all of my years of service, because after that deployment I got out of the military.

	F:	You worked in comms. Did you ever participate in any sort of signing for missions, or engagements, or anything like that?

	Y:	No, basically we just set up the comms for the forces to be able to communicate between themselves. The guys were going out and guys would stay back making, I guess, the command decisions, but I was there for a lot of those decisions. Whether it was direct briefings for those who were going out, or it were for just the command to be able to kind of survey the land to make sure everybody was in order and where they need to be.

	F:	We’re gonna to move on to some questions that are more directly related to your life in general while you’re in service. How did you stay in touch while you were serving in the U.S. army with your family?

	Y:	Well, when I was not deployed it was easy. I would just call my mom whenever I got time, usually on the weekends or after work. Facebook came out shortly after, I joined, so did MySpace, those type of social media avenues and things that allowed me to keep in touch with friends from high school and people that I had met in the military, then they went to a different base and I went to—so, it was pretty—I mean it’s not different than regular civilians how they keep in contact. I call my mom when I got off, you know my family, everyday if I wanted to. It’s not really that different.





	F:	While deployed, you used a lot of Facebook and the phones that you carried. Y:	Right. Well, luckily because I was comms, I always had access to a phone.

	F:	That’s true.



	Y:	So, I could call my family everyday if I really needed to. I always had a phone and a computer. That’s just one of the perks of being a comms guy. I was able to steadily stay in contact with them, but I know every soldier doesn’t get that opportunity.

	F:	What was the food like in the army? I know a lot of people hear the food is bad.



Can you tell us about what it was like for you?



	Y:	I can’t say the food is bad per say, if I could use that comment, but it depends on where you are and what you’re doing. And we all know MRE’s aren’t the most— well anyone who is in the service anyway knows that MRE’s aren’t the best food, and we definitely ate MRE’s when we were in the field or when we weren’t back in garrison. But, the chow hall food I very rarely ate because of my unit and how much we deployed. I got separate racks, which means they gave me an additional amount of money to pay for food. So, I pretty much bought food wherever I went to. I really never had to go to the chow hall.

	F:	How about supplies for your unit? Did you ever run low? How were they? Were they quality supplies? Just in general.

	Y:	Yeah, my unit was pretty well funded. We had what we needed for the most part.



Definitely, every type of communications equipment that you could need to support anyone, we had almost. I can’t say that we ever really needed anything





that we didn’t get. I can say another thing, I was fortunate to be in a unit where we didn’t struggle for supplies or to get the things that we needed.

	F:	While you were serving, did you feel a lot of pressure or stress in general? Or just related to the job?

	Y:	Well, I did sometimes only because my unit was very fast paced. We supported ourselves when we deployed. So, that means a company would go out when a company came back. One of the other companies in our battalion would just roll out where that company was, or if there was another meet missing they would go and support that mission. But, somebody was always constantly deployed in my battalion, so it was like a rotation thing. So, it was very—we were always training. We moved fast. So, that type of lifestyle where you know that you could deploy in a couple of months, or you might not or it’s just kind of taxing on your body. And then, just the training constantly can be a little strenuous, but then again it’s almost like any job where it’s fast paced or very demanding.

	F:	Did you have anything you did that was special to you or unique to you to relieve stress? Or, as a good luck charm, or anything like that while you were serving?

	Y:	Not really, just talking to my family. I am very close with my immediate family. My brothers and I talk all the time. They pretty much provide that stress relief for me. I told them about what happened to me today, if I have a heart problem, or if I have a rough day. I can call one of those guys and just like, hey what do you think about this? And they provide that support that I needed. And, plus, my brother was also in the military, John, when I was in and we were stationed on the same post. So, we would hang out a lot after work.





	F:	How did people entertain themselves while they were in the unit?



	Y:	There’s various ways. The posts have different areas for entertainment. They have different venues such as, the NTL club, which I’d never actually been to personally, but I had friends that went. You can go off post. There’s all types of things off post, bowling allies, clubs, things like that, that you can go to just to have a good time. Bars, there are just so many ways to just kind of hang out and—sometimes we would just stay at the barracks and play video games.

	F:	What about deployed?



	Y:	Deployed? That was a little more challenging because you’re in this one area.



Even if you go out in the area and maybe run a mission with one of the guys, it’s still so much down time, if you’re not out there or if you’re not on shift watching the equipment or monitoring the equipment. So, you can bring video games. We had video games when I was in Iraq, and I also read a lot. Just things like that. If you’re not doing something, you’re either really—either doing something all the time or you’re doing nothing. So, that’s how that works.

	F:	Did you get—were there any entertainers provided to you? Like USO shows, or anything like that while you were there?

	Y:	No. Where I was deployed, it was kind of a secluded area. We were by ourselves. The post was a very small post. So, we didn’t have those types of attractions coming through because there are so few of us. And, I never really got to go to one of the larger posts to participate in those entertainment functions.

	F:	What would you do when you were allowed to go on leave? Where would you go typically?





	Y:	Like R&R leave? Like from deployment? F:	Or just in general.

	Y:	Or just in general? Well, most of the time when I go on leave I would go home. Then, I’d just go visit my family. I did take a four day pass and go visit one of the friends that I made when I was stationed on Fort Bragg in North Carolina, and I went to New York. I visited her family and we kind of hung out for a little bit, but for the most part I went home. And, just spend a couple of days with my mom and dad, and my younger brother, who was still home at the time.

	F:	So, you didn’t do too much traveling out of the country or anything like that on leave?

	Y:	Not on leave. All the countries that I got to see were directly related with deployment. Like when I went to Iraq on that last deployment, we stopped in Germany on the way to Iraq and then we stopped in Spain coming back.

	F:	Do you remember anything particularly funny or unusual during your experiences while serving?

	Y:	I think the funniest story I have from basic training was when we first got there, the drill sergeants lined us all up in the line. And, they had a specific way that they wanted us to line up our year, so they can inspect and we can move to the different platoon that we’re assigned to and to the different barracks that we were staying in. And, during this event, all the drill sergeants are running around yelling at everybody, and we’re trying to do this impossible test that they gave us. Beause we came over on the bus and then they brought all of our gear over on a separate truck. So, all of our bags when we got there were in a pile, and they





gave us one minute to get out of formation, to get our bags out of the pile, we had no idea which bag was ours. We had one minute to get our bags and get back in formation. So, this is impossible. With ten seconds left, everyone is scattering through everything trying to find their bag. But, one soldier, who ended up being my battle buddy later on—battle buddy is the person that they assign you that you’re with all the time to kind of learn that you’re part of a team, to teach you that lesson—he ran straight up to the pile and was lucky and found his bag. Found his bag, got back out in formation, while everybody else was still running around looking for their bag. So, the drill sergeant walks up to him and he says to him, hey private what’s wrong with your bag? And he looks down at his bag and it’s in perfect condition, it’s just stacked just the way the drill sergeants told him to. And, he looks down and he inspects it to make sure it’s in order. He looks at the drill sergeant and he says, nothing drill sergeant. So, the drill sergeant picks up his bag, this is his bag with all his clothes and all his toiletries and those things, he opens the bag and dumps it on the ground, all over the place. He takes his bag and flings it about 20 yards. He turns to the soldier and he says, well, there is now. Pick up your stuff and get back in formation. And, it was so bad that after everyone had lined up in formation and the drill sergeants were giving their introductions and introducing themselves, and all of that stuff.

He was still picking up his stuff. I mean clothes, toothbrush, everything was all over the place. Like I said earlier, that soldier became by battle buddy throughout basic training. I used to give him a hard time, like every so often I would go up to





him and say, hey, what’s wrong with your bag? His name was Woods. He was like, you need to stop playing around, man. It was just so funny.

	F:	Did you ever take part or witness any pranks while you were in the military?



	Y:	Not really, I was never a prankster myself. So, whenever guys did those types of things, I kind of steered cleared of them because I’m not susceptible to having pranks pulled on me, so I don’t participate on pulling pranks on other people.

	F:	Okay. Did you get any good photographs while you were in? Y:	No, not really.

	F:	What were your thoughts about fellow soldiers or officers?



	Y:	The military is, to me, is just on a micro level the United States. It has some of everybody, every race, every type of personality, everything in it. So, of course there were people that I got along with very well. My best friend in the whole friend, I didn’t meet him until I got into the Army. We went to AIT together and ended up going to the same unit. He was in a different company, but we got to see each other every day and we became really close. So, as far as that’s concerned, the army, that’s how it is. Every type of personality, every type of gender, every type of race, is in it. So, you’re going to definitely agree with some people, you’re going to definitely disagree with some people, and you just have to learn how to manage that or mitigate it even.

	F:	Did you keep a diary while you were in service? Y:	No, I didn’t keep a diary.

	F:	We’re going to move on to some questions related to your experiences after your service, if that’s alright.





	Y:	Uh-huh.



	F:	When did your service end?



	Y:	I got out of the military in—well my ETS date, which means that’s the date that your active duty service ends, was September 3, 2007, but I used terminal leave, which is basically regular leave but leave that you use to exit the military earlier than when you would normally get out. So, I exited in July of 2007. I don’t remember the specific day.

	F:	Where were you when you got out of the service? Where did you go?



	Y:	I moved in to High Springs. I have a sister that lives in High Springs. She knew that I wanted to go to school in Gainesville, so she told me to come live with her while I was in school and help me save money so I could do things like go to grad school.

	F:	What did you want to do with school? What did you have in mind for that?



	Y:	Well, I knew I wanted to study politics only because I feel like the main thing I got out of the military was learning how to lead. I felt like I was a pretty decent leader and studying politics would teach me how to lead in a different capacity, which I would like to do one day.

	F:	And after you got out, can you describe like a typical day or your average week?



What were you doing after you got out?



	Y:	After or before I started school? F:	Either or both.

	Y:	Well, before school it was pretty laid back a lot of down time, but because of the time I got out there wasn’t much time between me actually moving back to





Florida and the time school was about to start. I moved back, I remember, maybe a week or two before I had to take all of my assessments and things like that to get into college. So, I might’ve had one day where I didn’t have anything to do, but that day you know I was studying to take the CPT, so I could get into college so I can enroll for that upcoming semester. And, that was like a week later the semester started.

	F:	Did you use your G.I. Bill for the beginning part of your education? Y:	I did. I used the G.I. Bill to fund my entire education.

	F:	Okay and that was your bachelors and you also ended up doing your masters, right?

	Y:	Yes.



	F:	Did you use your G.I. Bill for that too?



	Y:	I did. I used—I got a bachelors in Political Science and then I just finished a masters in Business, and I used the G.I. Bill to complete both of those degrees.

	F:	And you said you had a really good buddy while you were in the service. Do you still talk to him on a regular basis?

	Y:	I do. His birthday was actually last month, and I called him but he was in Afghanistan, so I didn’t get to talk to him. But, he just recently got back about two or three weeks ago. I talk to him, not as much as I would like, but I do still keep in contact with him. I’ll talk to him on Facebook, send him emails, or comment on his page and joke around with different things that he says, but we still very much keep in contact.

	F:	Did you join any veteran organizations when you left?





	Y:	I did. When I was in school, I joined the Collegiate Veterans Society, and the purpose of that society is just to: one, create a social network for veterans to have other veterans that they can spend time with that relates to their experiences and just kind of makes them feel more comfortable while they’re in school. Because the average veteran is typically older than the average student, so it’s just easier for them to relate to each other. The second function of the club is to do the best that it can to spread veterans’ awareness about different things that veterans struggle with, while they’re in school.

	F:	What kind of work have you done since you left service? What would you like to do in the future?

	Y:	What do you mean by work?



	F:	Like what have you done for jobs, if any?



	Y:	Well, I recently graduated this past May. Other than that, I’ve been staying in school. I did an internship with Walt Disney World, about six to nine months ago. Other than that, I worked at the VA office at Santa Fe and here, at the University of Florida, just as kind of a veteran’s counselor and data entry personal. So, those are my main jobs I have since I’ve gotten out.

	F:	Like specifically, what kind of work do you do at the VA?



	Y:	Well, like I said, I counsel veterans more specifically on the G.I Bill, and their educational benefits. I let them know what they’re eligible for, which benefit, which chapter of the bill they will be receiving benefits under, and I explain to them how they can use it to reach their educational goals, what it’ll pay for, what it won’t pay for, and then I also have an admin function. I enter data into the





computer; I make sure that they’re certified for the right courses and things like that.

	F:	So, how do you think veterans in our society are viewed today? Based on your experiences with both work and as yourself?

	Y:	I feel as though the view of veterans is continuously changing. Only because I feel that the country, after Vietnam, felt like they did veterans a disservice, and then after Desert Storm in our current wars, they’re starting to understand that it’s not the veteran’s or the soldiers’ idea to go to war, it’s just their job. And now, they’re realizing that there’s so many things that veterans bring not only to jobs, but to campuses, and their experiences are invaluable especially when it comes to leadership.

	F:	What about the military and war in general? How has being a veteran shaped your view on those things?

	Y:	Well, like I just said, it makes you understand that sometimes you sign up for a certain purpose, but you may not even really know what the overall purpose is to why you’re doing something, because in the military you’re taught as a soldier to follow orders. So, they give you orders and you carry them out, and I think that’s important for this war because some people will say that they don’t know why we are going or whatever, but that’s not what the soldier is concerned with. They’re concerned with they joined to serve the country, they joined to make sure their families are safe, and that things like 9/11 don’t happen again. And then, once they’re in they show that concern, they show that loyalty to duty by following orders and doing what their superiors expect of them.





F:  How do you think your service, in your experiences while serving, affected your life after service? Did you end up picking up on a lot of that discipline going into the service and stuff like that?

	Y:	Well, it definitely changed me as an individual because, like I said earlier, I was pretty undisciplined and the military definitely changed that. It made me understand that there’s always a need to plan, you need to understand that you need to go a certain way. In order to be successful you have to come up with, like I said, a plan that will help you reach your goals, and when I was young I didn’t come up with plans I just did it. But, the military showed me, especially from meeting other soldiers, that you have to have a plan and that plan has to have different parts that are reasonable and achievable.

	F:	Has your service led you to any opportunities that you don’t feel you would have had if you were not a veteran?

	Y:	I think, just because of the perception of a soldier, there are many different companies as far as jobs and universities that are looking for veterans to lead their organizations. I feel like that now that is slowly starting to be a part of how we see veterans and how the country wants to accept them, once they get out of the military and try to reintegrate into the civilian world. Especially with the President pushing to do different things with veterans, I feel like there are a lot of opportunities out there for all veterans. They just need to put themselves in a position and take advantage of them.

	F:	On the flip side of the questions I just asked, do you feel like being—your service has ever limited you from any opportunities?





	Y:	Not really. I don’t think so. I think that if anything it has opened more doors. I don’t think I’ve been limited in any way. Everyone I talked to that finds out I’m a veteran, they think it’s amazing that someone my age can be an actual combat veteran. They wanted you—when they think of that term they think of the older generation, probably the Vietnam era veterans and that’s when you think of when you think of veteran. You don’t think of a young 27 year old guy or even a 23 year old, a 24 year old guy being a veteran.

	F:	Looking back at your service and everything that’s come from it, if you’re given a choice whether or not you could relive everything, would you still go down that path?

	Y:	I would. I think the experiences, the information, the knowledge that I received from the military is invaluable, especially the leadership aspect. I wouldn’t have ever thought of myself as a leader if it wasn’t for the military, and I would have never been pushed into a situation where I had to lead others, and knowing that they depended on me to make the decision that would affect their lives. So, it was just—it was neat going through that maturation process and I don’t think I would have gotten that through anything else in life, especially straight out of high school trying to find a job or even going to college.

	F:	I wanted to ask you, if it’s ok, about your experiences being an African American in post—well, I don’t want to say post, but after so many civil rights transformations this country has had. I just wanted to gather your experiences, if any, that you felt have been related to your race or resulted from your race?

What did your immediate family and culture think of your plans to serve?





	Y:	Well, my dad suggested it to me so he was definitely in favor of it. My mom, a little reluctant to see me go only because I had two older brothers who by the time I went in, both had served in combat, and I know she was just scared that something was going to happen to one of us, eventually. You had so many kids go over there, it’s bound for something to happen. It’s just not in your favor. The more people you send over there, but we were blessed to have all us deployed, even my younger brother, and all come back and be fine. So, they were very supportive, and they knew what it would do for me to trying to start my life, potentially. Giving me a stepping stone to just do different things that I may not have been able to do and just opened doors that wouldn’t have been there. So, they weren’t against it. I didn’t have my dad say, no I don’t want you to go in, like I said, he suggested it. And my mom never told me, no I don’t want you to go in, but she was definitely reluctant to see me go.

	F:	How do you feel service is represented in your culture?



	Y:	I don’t think that it’s indirectly—I don’t think that it is directly related more like indirectly. I don’t know really, to be honest, how African Americans, the aggregate feels about serving. I don’t know. I can’t really tell you—

	F:	Well, I wouldn’t ask about an aggregate. I was just asking based of anything you may have experienced on your level. Did your families—you said it was mostly viewed as a positive by your family. Did their opinion of service change while your family was serving?

	Y:	No. I’m sure it would have changed drastically if something had happened to one of us. But, since we all came back fairly injury free— my brother was disabled.





He has a disability rating, but he’s not—there’s nothing stringent on him. He could still do everything that he does, or that he did before he went in. He can still get around. It’s not like he’s incapable of doing certain actions, but it was positive, like I said, because we were blessed to send everyone over there and everybody come back. So, I’m sure if something happened to one of us the perception, or whatever we thought about the military, would have drastically changed if something would’ve happened to one of us.

	F:	Did you or your family ever experience any discrimination in service that you thought that was related to your race.

	Y:	No, I never did. If my brothers had, they never told me about it. It’s like I said, it’s some of everybody in the military. I’m not gonna sit here and tell you that, or be naïve, and say that there’s no discrimination in the military at all, even today. I’m sure there is, but as far as me, as far as I’m concerned, I never really had to deal with it and if they were being discriminative against me, I didn’t notice it because I was too busy and focused on what I was trying to do.

	F:	Do you still have family that is in the military?



	Y:	Yes. I have a younger brother who is in the Marines.



	F:	So, you kind of touched on how they felt in the beginning and during the service for most of your family. Now looking back that most of your service that most of your family is out of the service, has their opinion changed at that point? Or is it still kind of the same constant theme?

	Y:	No, it’s still the same. Like I said, because we’re all fine still and even Jared, who just recently got back from Afghanistan, he was safe. The Lord watched over him





and kept him safe. I have a religious family, we pray, and every time someone goes over, we keep them in our prayers and things like that. We believe that god watches over us and brings us back safely. So, the perception is still the same. I don’t want my brother going back over, if I can help it. Nobody in my family does, but if he does go back over we understand that that’s what he signed up for when he decided to join the military.

	F:	It’s one of the last questions related to this area. How do you think perception has changed of being an African American in our society during your lifetime?

	Y:	I think that it’s getting better, only because I just feel like there’s different things that African Americans are able to do. Even in my day, that probably would’ve been very frowned upon whenever maybe ten fifteen twenty thirty years ago, especially—So, I don’t know. That’s just how it works. I feel as though society has become more accepting, very slowly, but surely have become more accepting and realizing that we’re all just people. I know it sounds a little naïve, but I feel like we’re moving in that direction. I feel like we are. I know that there is still bigotry out there. I know that there is still racism out there. But, I feel like, on the most part, people are becoming more accepting.

	F:	Do you feel like there is anything you would like to express? We are pretty much wrapped up with the direct questioning phase. Do you feel like there is anything you want to express now at the end of the interview that you haven’t already?

	Y:	No, not really. Like I said my favorite—my life has been changed dramatically because I served. I mean I loved every minute I was in the military. Well, maybe not every minute. But, I definitely enjoyed my time in the service. I enjoyed





serving my country, and I think that it helped me develop my character to be a more disciplined and a stronger individual. It just helped me to believe that I could do certain things that maybe I thought I never could accomplish, and then it allowed me to do different things like go to school and just participate in all types of activities I don’t think I would have gotten the opportunity to do. So, it was just the first chapter of my life and I believe that the military will continue to do that for young people, especially those who don’t have a drive, or have any focus really, on what they want to do.

	F:	Well, thank you very much for taking out your time to tell me about your experiences. I’m glad we could have done this. The date is 19th of July 2012. If you don’t have anything else to add, you’re free to go.

	Y:	I’m good. Thank you. F:	Thank you.

[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Cindy Bobadilla, September 6, 2012 Audit-edited by:	Kamal Gray, October 31, 2012 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 22, 2019