AAHP 628; Jones; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 628 Victoria Jones 1-19-2009 Interviewed by Marna Weston on January 19, 2009

36 Pages



Abstract:

Keywords: [African American History; Gainesville, Florida]



AAHP 628

Interviewee: Victoria Jones Interviewee: Marna Weston Date: January 19, 2009



	W:	This is Marna Weston recording for the Oral History Project at the University of Florida on January 19, 2009. I’m speaking with Ms. Victoria Jones at her home in Gainesville, Florida. Good afternoon, Ms. Jones.

	J:	Good afternoon.



	W:	May I ask you first just a little bit about yourself? Could you please spell your maiden name as it was when you were born, your full name, and then your name now?

	J:	Victoria Washington. Victoria, you know how you spell it… W:	V-I-C-T-O-R-I-A. Yes Ma’am.

	J:	Washigton. W-A-S-H-I-G-T-O-N.



	W:	You are now Victoria Jones? J:	I’m Jones now.

	W:	What is your date of birth? J:	The first day of March, 1922.

	W:	March 1, 1922. My mother was also born on March 1, 1944. J:	Sure enough?

	W:	Yes, Ma’am.





	J:	That’s good. Tell her she ought to live a long time, because I’m going on up there, child. I’m eighty-seven years… yeah, I will be eighty-seven in March.

	W:	Yes, ma’am. And where were you born, Ms. Jones?



	J:	I was born in La Crosse, Florida, out there in the country. W:	Were you born at home?

	J:	Yes, I guess so. Because back then, you know, there wasn’t no… no… W:	[laughter]

	J:	Anyway, my mama and daddy was living out there on the farm. Mama and my daddy, they farmed a lot. I didn’t do too much of that. I did a lot… mess around with the White folks, you know, in the house and things like that. When I left La Crosse, I came to Gainesville and I worked a while. I worked a while for the Wises and I left the Wise’s and went to Camp Blanding. I worked Camp Blanding three or four years. After they closed Camp Blanding down, I came back and I went to Sunland. I worked out there until I made my thirty years. [Clarify Sunland.]

	W:	The Wise’s, you mean Wise Drugs, downtown? J:	Yes.

	W:	I just rode by there and the place is full of people today. I was really surprised. J:	Sure enough?





W:  Yes, ma’am. I saw Perry McGriff over at the Trophy Shop a little bit earlier. He told me he was going to lunch over at Wise Drugs, so I came down University just to see and it was full of people.

	J:	Yeah, they been running that place since that boy’s daddy fell dead in that place thirty, forty years ago.

	W:	Now, could you tell me a little bit about your parents. Who are your mom and dad?

	J:	My daddy was from South Carolina and he did farm work. He got killed at an early age in an automobile. My mama, she did, what you call it, where you go washing clothes for these White folks and things. What do you…

	W:	A laundress?



	J:	Yeah. She was a laundress. But now, where she was born… her mama died… it was three of them. It was Uncle Bertie, Aunt Grinner, and my mama. Their mama died in childbirth so my granddaddy raised all three of them children. I mean, he raised them, too. That’s the way they came up, raising they children by they self. Uncle Bertie raise his by hisself because his wife died in childbirth. I don’t know why that family was dying in childbirth, but they died in childbirth.

They still had the babies and got up, you know how they get up the four, five days or something, she got up and sit up in a chair and fell out the chair with the baby in her arms and died. She hadn’t been sick or nothing, she just died like that. I think my grandmother died like that to. Well, anyway, my mama, she





came out… I was over here, so she had to come over here and live with me. I took care of her.

	W:	Was that here in Gainesville or in La Crosse? J:	Yeah, here in Gainesville.

	W:	Okay. Let me back up for just a minute. I didn’t get your dad’s name. J:	He was Tom Washigton.

	W:	Okay and he was from South Carolina? J:	Yes.

	W:	Do you remember his date of birth? J:	No. I can’t remember that.

	W:	Do you remember what part of South Carolina he was from?



	J:	No. I think in Flat Rock, South Carolina or Flat Rock, North Carolina. One of the two. I just always wished he could have lived longer for me to know really where he came from. See, he died when I was young. I didn’t know… I was too young to know all of that.

	W:	How about your mother? Her full name, please? J:	Her name was Christian.

	W:	And what was her maiden name?





	J:	Simmons. Chestina Simmons. W:	Would you spell that please?

	J:	C-H-E-S-T-I-N-A.



	W:	And where was she from originally? J:	Out in Brooker.

	W:	Okay, so Brooker. I’ve gone through there many times. Do you recall her date of birth?

	J:	No. I don’t know it right now.



W:  You mentioned your mother’s mother. Your grandmother. J:  My mama’s mother. My mama’s mother died at childbirth. W:  And what was her name?

	J:	I didn’t know her name. I didn’t know my mama’s mama. See, because I was very young. I don’t think I was born. No, I wasn’t even born when that happened. When all that happened, I wasn’t born.

	W:	What about your mother’s brothers and sisters. You mentioned Uncle Bertie. J:	Uncle Eugene Simmons. And Adrana Simmons.

	W:	Could you spell that first name, please? J:	A-D-R-A-N-A.





	W:	There were four? J:	Three of them.

	W:	Three of them, total? J:	Yes.

	W:	Did your dad have any brothers and sisters? J:	No. He had no brothers and neither no sisters. W;	How long did your family stay in La Crosse?

	J:	All his days… My father stayed there all his days until he died, I guess. My mama stayed there until she had all her children. They were grown when she left.

	W:	How did you end up coming to Gainesville from La Crosse?



	J:	How did I end up coming? Well, I came to Gainesville to get a job. That’s what… somebody had offered me a job. I came and got to Gainesville and got the job, got me a room. I stayed up there on Church Street with Ms. Nancy. Her name was Nancy Gaston. She’s dead too. All them folks are dead.

	W:	Gaston or Gadson? J:	Gaston.

	W:	Okay, G-A-S-T-O-N?



	J:	Yes.





	W:	She rented to you? J:	Yes.

	W:	Why did you end up at her place? How did you find out about her?



	J:	Somebody told me about it. I don’t know now how I got it, but I know somebody told me about it. I stayed there a long time. A long time. But, now, she dead too. All these people that I’m talking about is dead and gone, been dead and gone. So, that’s just it. I can’t think of too much because I’m old myself.

	W:	What year was it that you came to Gainesville to get the job? J:	I don’t know.

	W:	How old were you?



	J:	I wasn’t but nineteen years old. W:	Nineteen and off on your own! J:	Yes.

	W:	You had left your family in La Crosse and you came to Gainesville all by yourself. J:	Yes.

	W:	Did you know anybody else here?



	J:	Oh, yeah. I had a lot of kinfolks here. W:	Okay.





	J:	Cousins. A lot of cousins. They still, some of them still here. The one I came to really to live with, she’s up north. She’s still living. But I knew a lot of peoples in Gainesville. See, back then, people wasn’t as plentiful [Inaudible] as they is now. We mostly know everybody around, just like you do out in the country. So it’s not like that now, though.

	W:	Oh yeah. When I grew up, I knew everybody on my street and now I don’t know the people living next door to my house.

	J:	I know you don’t! No, because I don’t know them people that live next door to me.

	W:	And they just sixty, what are they, forty yards away? Not even? J:	I don’t know them people.

	W:	Why do you think this changed like that?



	J:	I don’t know why, why it changed like that but it really changed. It used to be a time [that] you knowed everybody. You go to church and you walk five miles and still, you know all them peoples [that] you done passed they house. But you don’t do that no more. You don’t do that no more. There’s people that stay right around the corner there. I don’t know them.

	W:	… don’t even speak.



	J:	I speak to them if I go outside.





	W:	Of course, you do! [laughter] I mean, but if you didn’t speak to them, they wouldn’t speak to you.

	J:	That’s true.



	W:	I’d like to come back to that but I forgot to ask you about your education. Where did you first go to school?

	J:	I first went to school in La Crosse. It was a school in La Crosse. My teacher was Mr. Gaddy. He’s dead too.

	W:	Did Mr. Gaddy teach all the subjects?



	J:	No, him and Ms. Selma. Thelma. Thelma something. Anyway, I think she’s still living, but she’s sick, worse than ever, she is.

	W:	I’m sorry to hear that.



	J:		Mr. Gaddy was my Bible and teacher. I always liked to help. I really did. He was a good teacher.

	W:	How many students went to the school that you went to?



	J:	Oh, there wasn’t but about five or six of them. You know, back then it wasn’t that many.

	W:	Was it an elementary school or an elementary and high school all together? J:	It was an elementary and high school all together, back then, you know.

	W:	What was the name of the school?





	J:	What was that? La Crosse High School or La Crosse Elementary School or something like that.

	W:	Where was it in La Crosse? If I went to La Crosse today and I looked around, how could I find it?

	J:	You couldn’t find it.



	W:	I couldn’t find it! [laughter]



	J:	No, you couldn’t find it because people done built out there so much now that they, you know, they build something there just like they do in Gainesville. All out in the country is just like in Gainesville.

		W:		How long did you got to school there? Did you go until you graduated? J:	No, I went to ninth grade.

	W:	Ninth grade. Was that it for you or did you go to high school after?



	J:	That was it. I went over and I worked at Camp Blanding and I worked the Sunland with it. I was supervisor at Sunland with it.

	W:	Did you all have some land that you worked? You know, you have some…



	J:	They did. I ain’t never worked too much in it. I always worked in the private home or either got a big job like I did. I ain’t ever worked too much in no field.

	W:	What kind of work did you do in private homes? J:	Well, just do home work, that’s all I know.





	W:	You mean, cleaning the house and stuff like that? J:	Yeah cleaning and… cleaning and cooking.

	W:	Who did you work for?



	J:	Well, I worked for the Wises a while and I worked for the Williams. Williams. Charlie William that used to run William’s Funeral Home… I mean… William…

	W:	Williams-Thomas?



	J:	No. It wasn’t William Thomas. Beasley William. It was Beasley William. They ran a furniture store downtown.

	W:	These were White people? J:	Yeah!

	W:	How did you end up working for them? Did you ask for the job or they came by and said we need somebody to work and…?

	J:	Yeah, that’s the way they did.



W:  So they can just come up and say, we need somebody to work a house and we want this young lady to come work for us.

J:  I should say…Somebody else I worked…I worked for a boarding house where they had, I think it was twelve students going to school and I would go up there and fix breakfast for them and that was all I did.

W:   What was the name of that boarding house?





	J:	I can’t think of the name of that boarding house. I tell you where it’s at. It’s Seventh Building… what is it? Seventh Siegel Building up there across from the hospital. It used to be right out in front of that building.

	W:	Was it the Siegel Building or it was next to the Siegel Building? J:	No, it was next to the Siegel Building.

	W:	Do you remember what the Siegel Building [was]? Was it the Dixie Hotel? J:	Yes.

	W:	Did you ever work there?



	J:	I ain’t ever worked at no hotel!



	W:	[laughter] Okay. What was Gainesville like when you were growing up? You came here at nineteen. You were on your own living at Ms. Nancy’s place.

	J:	Gainesville was a nice place to live. It was such a nice place to live back then.



You know, people wasn’t like they is now. I couldn’t go out there and live like I did when I was young like that now. I wouldn’t task myself like that. No. Time ain’t like it used to be. No.

	W:	The people were friendlier; you think? J:	Yeah. Much friendlier.

	W:	Now, even though it was segregated, though? Wasn’t it? J:	Yeah, it was segregated. Sure it was.





	W:	So there were places you couldn’t go, and places that you did go. What was that like?

	J:	That’s right. It was just one of those things.



	W:	Did you have any problems with White people?



	J:	No, I didn’t have no problem with them. No, I didn’t have no problems.



	W:	So it was mostly just separate. The people you dealt with was Black people. J:	Yes.

	W:	Well, so what would you do…



	J:	Now, you know I had some few White that was real, real nice and then some of them… you know, White folks was much better back then than they is now, because I don’t go out like I used to. I don’t be around too many peoples like that no more. But I used to be around them and they was good. They was all right.

Wasn’t nothing wrong with them.



	W:	What was one of the…



	J:	I had one that teached me how to cook.



	W:	Really? What kind of stuff did you cook with them? J:	Every kind of… anything you wanted, cracker!

	W:	What was that person’s name? J:	Elsa Harris.





	W:	Okay and she was a…



	J:	She was old when she died. She been dead. But I’ll never forget her though.



	W:	What was something that… probably the most exciting thing that happened when you were growing up in Gainesville, you know, the thing that most people knew about. It was something that everybody knew about, Black and White. What would that have been?

	J:	I’ve always gone to church. Always go to church. I was close to the church ever since I was… I got religious when I was seventeen years old. I got it… I mean, I’ve been going ever since. I don’t hardly miss… I don’t know when the last time I missed a Sunday. I go if I’m sick. But I go to church.

	W:	What church did you join when you came to Gainesville? J:	Mount Carmel.

	W:	Mount Carmel. And are you still a member at Mount Carmel today? Who was the minister at Mount Carmel when you first joined?

	J:	I’m trying to think now. Who was it? The man that built that church was who?



I’m trying to think who he was. He was a smart man, because he worked out too just knew. He want pastors/walked pastures to build that church. He’s dead. His wife’s dead. All them folks is dead. I can’t think of his name. But when I joined… Reverend Robinson. When I joined Mount Carmel Reverend Robinson was there. That’s who it was. He built the church and, you know, I





never was the type of person to fight the church. I don’t have nothing to do with it. They’re fighting down there in that… I don’t have nothing to do with them.

	W:	What are they fighting about?



	J:	Trying to get a preacher. [laughter]



	W:	[laughter] Don’t they have a preacher?



	J:	No, they ain’t got no pastor down there. Pastor retired. He comes to church but he’s not the pastor of that church no more.

	W:	What was his name? J:	Reverend Wright.

		W:	Reverend T.A. Wright? J:		Yeah.

	W:	Okay, I know Reverend Wright very… You’re talking about Mount Carmel over on Eighth Avenue. The big church.

	J:	Yeah! Yeah.



	W:	Who was your favorite pastor, you know, somebody you remember over the years at Mount Carmel since you’ve been there?

	J:	Well, I would say Reverend Wright.



	W:	So the first one and the last one that you dealt with… [laughter]







J:

Yes.



W:



Okay! [laughter] Do you remember when Pearl Harbor came?

J:

Hmmm… what year was that?



W:



That was December 7, 1941.



J:



I had to be! Because I ain’t been no member of no other church. Had to be!

W:

It was a Sunday morning, too, so you would have found out at church, probably.



J:



Yeah. I was there.

W:

Did a lot of the young men go off to the war?



J:



Yeah, I had two brothers that go.



W:



What were their names?

J:

One of them was Massey Washigton and the other was William Washigton.



W:



Are they still living with you?



J:



No, both of them dead. Both of them dead.

W:

But they didn’t die in the war?



J:

No! William worked for Florida, I think… I know, until he retired. Now Massey, I don’t know where he worked at because he wasn’t living here. He was living in Jersey. New Jersey.





	W:	So they came home from the war and, when they were there, did you write to them overseas? What was it like when they were gone?

	J:	Well, I’d write to them. My mama was living at that time, you know. She would



		. He would be together all the time. But I still would hear from them.



	W:	Do you have any of the letters that they sent you, or that you sent them? J:	I don’t have no letters from...

	W:	So they came back. What were you doing during World War II? Did you volunteer in the war industries or, you know, because it was different. It was rationing and all that stuff. What kind of things did you during the war?

	J:	Camp Blanding was here. I was working at Camp Blanding. W:	What did you do there?

	J:	Working in the mess hall. We were the first ones in. I worked in the baker’s shop in the mess hall and somewheres else I worked. Oh, two or three places.

Wherever they tell me to work, I worked.



	W:	Did you drive up there yourself or did you go in a group of people? J:	No, I drove with a group of people.

	W:	Now, but you did drive, at some point.



		J:		No, no! You know when I started driving? W:	No, ma’am.





	J:	I was thirty-three-years-old.



	W:	You didn’t have a driver’s license until you was thirty-three?



	J:	That’s right. Thirty-three-years-old when I started driving. My husband drove me… he carried me anywhere I wanted to go. When he passed, that time, I said, “Ah, I’ve got to get my license now.”

	W:	I’m sorry; I didn’t ask you about your husband. What was his name? J:	Willie Jones.

	W:	Where was he from?



	J:	He told me he was from Carolina? I think he did tell me he was from Carolina.



Yes, he was from some parts of Carolina.



	W:	When were you all married? What day and year?



	J:	We were married downtown, but now, what year? We was married over thirty years. I tell you that.

	W:	You were married here in Gainesville? J:	Yes.

	W;	You said downtown. Was that the church or you just went and had the judge…? J:	Just went and had the judge [Inaudible].

	W:	Do you remember which judge it was?







J:

No. No.



W:



Did he go to the service?

J:

Willie went to the service? I’m trying to think. Did he go? I don’t think so.



W:



Okay, but your sons went?



J:



Yes.

W:

Was that just the two boys or did you have girls as well?



J:

Yes. I had two girls. I got two. I got one that live out there in Hagues. Her and her husband’s got a church together. Now my son and his wife got a church. His wife preaches too. I got a son that’s doing that.

W:

Which son is that?



J:



That’s Elroy. He’s in Atlanta.



W:



So, Elroy Jones. What is his wife’s name?

J:

Who? Elroy? His wife’s name is Gloria.



W:



Do they have children as well?

J:

Yeah, they got grandchildren.



W:



How many grandchildren and great grands do you have?



J:



[laughter] Don’t ask me that!

W:

[laughter] You can’t count them?





	J:	Don’t ask me that.



	W:	More than ten grandchildren? J:	Yeah!

	W:	More than twenty?



	J:	I ain’t going to say that. No. I ain’t going to say that. W:	How about great grands?

	J:	I believe I’ve got more great grands than I have grands. Oh, I’m trying to count them one day and I said, “Lord, help me to remember how many grandchildren I got. “ I don’t know. No, them the type that you can’t hardly handle, you know?

	W:	[laughter] Yes, ma’am. How about great-greats?



	J:	Let me see. Elroy got… them grandchildren Elroy got. But them is… W:	That’s your great grands.

	J:	Yeah. They’re my great grands. But they’re Elroy’s grandchildren. They got one, two, three… they ain’t got but three grandchildren. That’s all. Daughter got two and son got one. That’s all.

	W:	So great-greats, soon, but not yet. J:	Not yet.

	W:	Do you remember when Emmett Till was killed in Mississippi?





	J:	I heard it.



	W:	What was that like?



	J:	Lord, I don’t know. I don’t know that. I don’t let... you know what? I pray so much, I’m telling you. I don’t let the death of people worry me. I don’t let that bother me. Because everybody came here to leave here, but you don’t know how. And when. But they going to leave here. So I don’t let that kind of stuff bother me.

You know what? Back when my mama got sick, my husband got sick, my daughter got sick, all them people, when they got sick, I started praying. I asked God to let me be able to stand what should never happen. Don’t let me worry, be sad… just let me be able to stand it. And do you know God helped me just like that? I don’t have to worry about nothing like that. Maybe if… you know I had a son that died with seizures.

	W:	No, ma’am. I didn’t know that.



J:  I looked at that boy. He had brain surgery and after he had the brain surgery, he had seizures. I said, “Well, that thing he’s having is going to carry him out of this world and sure enough,” that’s what happened.

W:   Which son was that?



J:  That was my oldest child. W:  What was his name?

J:   Eddy Moore.







W:

Eddy Moore. What year did Eddy pass?



J:



I don’t know. I got all that written down, but I can’t think of it right now.

W:

How about your husband? When did he pass?



J:



Would have been dead fifteen years.



W:



Was it just natural causes…?

J:

No, he had bone cancer. He had cancer.



W:



I’m so very sorry.

J:

Yeah, he had cancer. That’s something that’s killing everybody. [Yes.]



W:



Fifteen years. That’s not that long ago.



J:



No.

W:

Do you remember when Dr. King was assassinated?



J:



I remember when he was assassinated. I was getting ready to go to work.



W:



Where were you working then?

J:

At Sunland.



W:



At Sunland. Did you get to work that day or did you just decide to stay at home?

J:

No I worked. What was I going to stay home for? I couldn’t help him none.



W:

Well, I know in some places that it got bad. People couldn’t go to work because people were rioting. What was it like in Gainesville on the day he was killed?





	J:	It wasn’t that… [knock at the door] Who in the devil is that? W:	Let me pause this for you.

[break in interview]



	W:	Okay we’re re-continuing our interview with Ms. Victoria Jones. So, we were about to talk to about Dr. King. You said you went to work because what could you do? I asked what was it like in Gainesville. Were people calm about it or how were they talking about what was happening.

	J:	They was calm about it as far as I know. There wasn’t too much to say, but, I always say he said… I think he knew he was going to get killed, the way he talked. He knew he was going to get killed. But, what did you think about this?

	W:	Oh yeah! That’s the next thing. Are you talking about Barack Obama? J:	Yeah, what you think about him?

	W:	Oh yeah, well that’s really exciting. J:	What you think about him though?

	W:	Well, I believe that he is very capable and I believe that he has the best kind of plans for things to do and I think it’s just going to be a question of are they going to let him do what he has planned out? Because he will have some obstacles. I think also, because he is something different for people to deal with… I mean, here is a Black man. His family is together. He is very organized. He plans things out. He’s something that nobody expected, which is kind of a bad thing because





you should expect anybody to be able to present themselves and have a plan. But you know, it was supposed to be Hillary Clinton. It wasn’t supposed to be him. They put him up there kind of to make sure she didn’t get it and then he showed them that he was more than just a spoiler. You know, he kind of knows what he’s going to do, so I’m hopeful that he will get a chance to do the things that he is talking about. But, you know, things are just getting so bad, I don’t know if he’ll end up being able to finish what he started. What do you think?

	J:	What you talking about being bad? Who? What are you talking about?



	W:	Well, the talk about the economy and how the banks have failed.



	J:	Oh! Yeah, yeah, yeah. Everything’s so messed up now. I’m telling you too, I don’t see how he’s going get it out. But let me tell you something. I believe, I might be wrong, but Lord help me, I believe the man talked to the Lord before he got into that business. I really do believe because they could have done killed him. But I believe that he has talked to the Lord before he started that because… you know I have a grandson living in Tampa. That boy could tell me everything that he said he went through. I said, “What did you do? You got a book or something that belongs to him?” He said, “No, I got a book that, I know,” he read that book. And now let me tell you something. I’ve been praying for that man ever since he started on that road. I been praying for him and I think, if I’m not mistaken, I believe the Lord been talking to him. I believe the Lord talked to him. Because he don’t act scared of nothing. Nothing upsets him. You don’t find many people walking the road doing nothing that don’t nothing up set them. Don’t nothing





upset that boy. Don’t nothing upset him. You watch him now. He go along, I don’t care what nobody say to him or what they do, he don’t get upset.

	W:	I saw him on TV yesterday…



	J:	But, it’s in the Bible. I can’t say now where it’s at now. But it’s in the Bible that it would be a man, but it wasn’t going to be no White man and it wasn’t going to be no Black man that would come in and do the best job. I believe it’s him. I really do believe that’s him.

	W:	So what do you think is going to happen now that he’s the president? Tomorrow at noon, he gets sworn in. Tomorrow at noon.

	J:	He going to be the President. Period. He going to be the President. I don’t get happy or nothing about it, but I just could see him being the President. That’s all. Just like I did the rest of them, I’m going to see him doing it. It ain’t no color in there, so there ain’t no need in nobody saying Black man this and Black man… because he ain’t a Black man. He ain’t a White man. He’s the President. So that’s what he is.

		W:	What did you think about President Bush? This is his last day. J:	That he done 	.

	W:	[laughter] Okay. How about President Clinton?



	J:	Clinton was all right. He was all right. Because I say… that was our democratic president wasn’t it?





	W:	Yes, Ma’am.



	J:	He was good! [laughter] He… baby child… the thing went down after he put it down. I said “Lord, look at him,” a lot of people they ain’t got no job. They ain’t got nowhere to stay. I said, “Lord help them.” That’s all I can do.

	W:	So Barack Obama is going to be President at noon tomorrow. J:	Yep.

	W:	Do you think that is going to help the way people look at the United States? Is that going to make it better or is that going to, what do you think, make it worse?

	J:	I hope it make it better, with these young folks. You know, you can’t tell these young folks now, [I] say. I just hope and pray that it make it better. I sure do.

	W:	Do you think he is a good role model? J:	I think so. Don’t you?

	W:	Yes, Ma’am, I do. I was just trying to get it in your word. J:	Yeah.

	W:	How do you think it’s going to make it better that he’ll be the President from being a role model? What do you think that’s going to mean?

	J:		It’s going to mean some of everything, honey, because there are some people living so bad here now. They ain’t got no money, ain’t got no job, don’t want no





job. I don’t know what they going to do. Some of them don’t want no job. There’s a lot of people don’t want no job. You know that?

	W:	Yes, ma’am, I do.



	J:	Shoot. I can’t live with that. Of course, I think God I lived to see a Black man got any chance. I’m going to still pray for him. That’s all I can do.

	W:	Did you not think that was going to happen?



	J:	I ain’t thought about it until he got in the chair. I ain’t never thought about a Black man getting in the chair for a president.

	W:	Well, we had some people before. You know, Julian Bond, back in the [19]60s, he was interested in doing it.

	J:	They ran but they didn’t ran long enough for me to know who they was. I know that Black people ran for it but they didn’t… there’s some of them I didn’t even know about. I don’t know. But that’s the first Black man I ever really, really wanted to be a president.

	W:	What is your definition of leadership? What is it that makes a person a leader?



Makes you want to follow them and live by their example? What is a leader?



	J:	Honey, I want to live like a nice person lives, that know how to treat other people, know how to treat his children… get by with his children… take care of his family, you know? I always wanted to do what I see other people do like that, is take care of their family, teach them the right thing. Honey, you can’t raise no children without teaching them the right thing, you know that? You got to be honorable





and honest yourself. You got to do right yourself to teach a child how to do right. If you want to teach a child how to do right and you don’t do right, ain’t no days like that. Lady was telling me yesterday about, down there, she said people’s children walk the street all night long. I said, “Well [Inaudible], do you know who the people’s children is?” She said, “No, I don’t know who those people’s children is but they stay in the street all night. You can hear them children in the street.” I said, “Well they don’t come this way like that.” I hope not.

	W:	What do you think about Barack Obama and his family: his wife and his two girls, Sasha and Malia and….?

	J:	I think they’re nice peoples. They are very nice and I hope and pray they’ll come out all right. That’s all I… I just pray for them. That’s all.

	W:	What about her being the First Lady. You know, we haven’t really had a lot of really dynamic First Ladies. It was Jackie Kennedy and, then there was, you know, Hillary Clinton. People talked to her a little bit and people talk about Lady Bird Johnson. What do you think that, in the end, Michelle Obama will make a good First Lady?

	J:	I think Michelle will make a good First Lady. She done been to school. She got a good education. I think she’ll make a good First Lady. I do. I think she’ll make a good First Lady.

W:  Barbara Bush championed literacy when her husband was the President. What do you think Michelle Obama’s signature program is going to be as First Lady? What would you think she would do?





	J:	She might work with the children. I don’t know. She might work with the children.



I don’t know.



	W:	What do you think about her mama coming to live with them? J:	That’s what I thought about! [laughter]

	W:	[laughter]



	J:	I didn’t want to say too much about that. But she must be planning to do something! Why would she bring her in like that?

	W:	She needs the free time. Her mama’s going to be watching the girls, so she’s going to be doing something big.

	J:	Yeah. She going to be doing something big. Why would she tell her mama any of that and not do nothing. I’m sure she going to do something because she’s already a lawyer, eh?

	W:	Yes, ma’am, she is. A good lawyer. Barack Obama thought she was a good lawyer.

	J:	Yes. So, they’ll make it. They’ll make it.



	W:	Do you think he’ll run again. Will he get two terms?



	J:	I thought about that before you came. He was on TV. I said, “You know, that man might run another term.” Oh Lord…they might keep him in that chair for a while. I don’t know. They might be glad to have him there, you know? We don’t know. I ain’t going to be able to see it, but he might make a good President,





child. We never know. This country need somebody like that. Yes, they do. So he might make a good President. I believe he’s good now, you know, because he don’t get mad. You don’t catch him getting mad and upset by nothing. He goes on and that’s all he do.

	W:	They said this morning that he has an 80 percent approval rating. J:	Yeah, he do.

	W:	Now that means that people that didn’t vote for him like him now. Why do you think that would be that people in the beginning that didn’t vote for him, now they look at him and say, well, he might do a good job? Why do you think that is?

	J:	He just as well say it. Ain’t no need to change it. Just as well to say it. It’s something what they can get and be satisfied. And if you don’t like it, just pray and ask God to take care of it. That’s all.

	W:	What about his opponents? He had John McCain and Sarah Palin. What… J:	John McCain?

	W:	He’s the man that ran against him. J:	Oh! Yeah! Oh man. [laughter]

	W:	And then his vice presidential running mate was the woman from Alaska, Sarah Palin. You think she might try to run against Barack Obama in four years?





J:  She might try it, but she won’t make it, though. I don’t think. I hope not. I don’t think she’ll make it though, because a lot of these White women don’t care for her.

W:  Why do you think that was, that she was so popular at first and then she gave a couple of speeches and then people didn’t like her anymore.

J:   No, they didn’t like her no more. Sure didn’t.



	W:	What did you think about the Gators winning this football championship they just won? Do you follow them at all?

	J:	I don’t see them that much. I talk to my son-in-law a lot about it. He loved that. He loved that game. Yeah, I look at it, but I’m not that crazy about games. I’m not as crazy about it. But I looked at it and I am glad the other folks love it. I’m glad. I am. I’m glad who love it love it, because I just don’t. I sit there sometime and look at it… good [Inaudible]. Find out what the scores is and go on by somewheres else.

	W:	So you just get a little bit and you can move on? Why do you think the people… it’s so big for so many people that they wake and go to sleep on it. They just live the whole day, the whole year, waiting for it to happen. They’re already talking about the Spring game. You get started…

	J:	They do that in church, child.



	W:	Do they? [laughter] Why do you think that is?





	J:	I don’t know. They just love it. They just love it. But they do that in church. They talk about and say, you know, so and so and so is happening and such and such and… we won’t be here. I say, y’all go ahead on and look at the game because I don’t care for it. I don’t care for it.

	W:	What do you think is the biggest issue for young people today? If you could look back on how it was when you grew up and how it is now, how young people acted when you grew up and how they act now, what is the biggest issue for young people? Something they need to address for themselves?

	J:	You know what? I fault the parents for that. I fault the children’s parents for a lot of things they do because Obama done told them boys to stop wearing them old britches down like they do. Some of them doing it right on. They ain’t going quit. And they come out with their parents looking like that! Ain’t no child of mine would do nothing like that. I got one that finished college. Once, he came home, came by here and came. I looked at him and I said, “Son, I didn’t know you had sugar in your blood.” Oh that seemed to hurt that boy so bad. I ain’t seen with nothing like that no more. He don’t dress no any kind of way. He don’t wear no jewelry. Not that kind that he had on. He had, what did he have on? Earrings. I said, “Child, you is a man. You ain’t supposed to wear nothing like that!” I ain’t seen none of them dressed like that no more. I got one went to [Inaudible] in Washington DC. I’ve got two or three in DC. Two grandchildren in DC and I was wondering did I have a niece in DC. I haven’t heard from her. She lived in Jacksonville. I don’t know whether she is or not. I say, I’ll call her later and check to see if she in there. But these children just don’t… my children don’t go





out looking like that. None of my children… my grandchildren… I don’t have no grandchildren that I know of that go out looking like that. My husband used to tell them quick, put your shirt in your britches. Put your belt on your pants. Don’t come out here with no shirt hanging out your coat. Put your shirt in your pants and put you a belt on. You know, the way the children dress now, I think the Lord took my husband on account of that because some of these children would have done killed him. He don’t like to see how people dress. He didn’t like that. I said, that’s why the Lord took him. Lord took him to keep these children from killing because some of these children I believe will kill you for something like that.

	W:	Do you think it’s the rap and the gangs and stuff, because you know, we kind of have gangs in Gainesville a little bit now.

	J:	You have?



	W:	We didn’t used to have stuff like that but we’ve got kids talking about how they the Eighth Avenue Gang and the Northeast Fifteenth Street Gang. So, some of that is coming into town a little bit.

	J:	Hush your mouth.



	W:	Yes, ma’am. Do you think that’s something that… How do you see that?



	J:	If that is what they’re doing… yeah, that’s what they….they’re coming into town with…. Honey… in the past scared of them.

	W:	Yes, ma’am.





	J:	[laughter] You know Horace is old. He ain’t no baby. He going on sixty-one years old and I’m not afraid of him, you know that?

	W:	[laughter] No, ma’am, I’m sure.



	J:	I’m not afraid of him. Talk all that talk to y’all but not to me. No. I ain’t scared of none of my children. No, honey.

	W:	What do you think is the biggest problem facing Black America today? We’ve got Barack Obama…

	J:	The parents. I think it’s the parents. W:	The parents.

	J:	If the parents were bearing on these children, these children wouldn’t do what they do. It’s the way they raised them. People don’t raise children like they used to. Not like your family raised you and my family raised me and I raised my children. They don’t raise them like that no more. No. They’re scared of them too. They’re scared of their own children. And that’s sad. Yes it is. It ain’t only Black. It’s Black and White scared of their children. Sure enough.

	W:	You think that’s because they took some of the tools away? I mean, you can’t spank your kids anymore.

	J:	That’s one of them. That’s one of them. You didn’t kill them when you spanked them. You didn’t kill them.





	W:		I know I wish I had gotten maybe a few more whippings. Maybe I would have ended up at Harvard instead of University of Florida. [laughter]

	J:	Why? You don’t like University of Florida?



	W:	Oh, no! I love it, but maybe I would have studied a little bit harder! [laughter] Them whippings tended to get your attention.

	J:	They do. They get your attention, honey. Sure enough! My goodness. It’s sad, though. Yeah, it’s sad.

	W:	Ms. Jones, I’ve really enjoyed this interview so much and I would love to be able to come back and talk to you again sometime.

	J:	All right.



	W:		I always like to end the interview letting the person that I talked to talk about what’s on their mind because there may be some things that I didn’t bring up or we didn’t talk about while we had our conversation. So, to conclude our interview, I’m going to leave it to you to make whatever comments you choose to. When you decide that you’ve said all that you want to say, that will be the end of the interview today.

	J:	Ah, well, there ain’t much for me to day. I done said what I was going to say. Ain’t much more for me to say. Just you just go ahead on and get your education and do the best you can. Don’t let nobody fool you. Don’t let them scare you. Do like Obama. Don’t go act like you don’t know. That’s the way he does when they start dragging at him. [laughter] He already said something to them one day in





the run and you know she told him she wasn’t running for no vice president. She was running for President. You remember that?

	W:	Yes, ma’am, I do.



	J:	You remember that? W:	Yes.

	J:	I said, “Lord, listen there. Listen there. White folks didn’t want her in there. They didn’t want her right now. They didn’t want her right now. That’s just like getting a preacher.” A lot of people don’t want no woman preacher just like they don’t want no woman president. So it’s just one of those things. She’s got that job though, didn’t she?

	W:	Yes ma’am.



	J:	That’s all right. That’s good. But I just hope and pray everything will work out all right because I know I ain’t going to be here to see it all. Diabetes is something other. It ain’t nothing but a money-eating disease. It will eat you up with your money. That’s all it is. You just have to stay on medication all the time. It’s just something other, I just… I ain’t got no more to say. I ain’t got nothing to say. I’m up.

[End of interview]



	Audit-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, January 22, 2021 Final-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, January 29, 2021