AAHP 138A; Coleman; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 138A Cranford Ronald Coleman Jr.

Interviewed by Ryan Morini on September 4, 2010 57 minutes | 24 pages





Abstract: In this interview, Cranford Ronald Coleman Jr. talks a little about growing up in Ocala during integration. He also discusses his years at the University of Florida in the late 1960s and early 1970s. He was the first Black student athlete on scholarship, and he shares his experiences on the track and field team and in the classroom at that time. He describes the Civil Rights protests that took place on campus while he was there. He also gives examples of racism he experienced while traveling through the South for track events.



Keywords: University of Florida; Civil Rights; Integration; track team; Tuscaloosa





















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 138A

Interviewee: Cranford Ronald Coleman, Jr. Interviewer: Ryan Morini

Date: September 4, 2010



	M:	This is Ryan Morini, and I’m interviewing Ron Coleman here at the 2010 Black Alumni Weekend. Let’s begin with some basic background. Where were you born?

	C:	1950, Ryan.



	M:	1950. What was the date? C:	April 3rd.

	M:	April 3rd,1950. Where were you born?



	C:	I was born right down the road in Ocala, Florida. M:	Ocala?

	C:	Yeah, about thirty miles from here. M:	Is that where you grew up, too?

	C:	Yes I grew up right there in Ocala. I went to school there and graduated from Ocala High School in 1968.

	M:	Very nice, very nice. Did you live in a particular neighborhood down there?



C:  Yes as a matter of fact I lived on the “westside,” as we called it. I later found out that the proper name for it was Poinsettia Heights. It was just a large community of African-Americans. Practically every Black family during that time lived on the west side of Ocala.

M:   I see. Was it difficult to grow up Black in Ocala?



	C:	I wouldn’t say it was difficult, Ryan. It was different and it may have been difficult prior to my years as a child. But that part of it was unknown to me. The difficulty was trying to assimilate in the integration of the city. As we grew older and the





Civil Rights Movement took on some headway, there was some difficulty with that. However, I would say life growing up for us was rather pleasant. It wasn’t easy. We grew up as a middle class family as it were. My father was a tonsorialist. For those that don’t know that word, I throw it out there simply because it’s not a commonly used word, but my father was a barber. My mom was an elementary school teacher. They both raised us in the church, my father being a Baptist, my mother a Methodist. We got a good dose of both; hallelujah good times. We just lived a, moderately I could call it, pleasant lifestyle.

	M:	Okay. That’s good to know. How many siblings did you have?



	C:	I have one older brother who’s four years older than I am and one sister who is six years younger than I.

	M:	Very nice. If you graduated in [19]68 just as far as integration when did the high school integrate there? It must have been close to that time.

	C:	Yeah, the schools integrated in 1965. I was among the first group to go and integrate the local school. This was in the tenth grade. Prior to that time of course, all Blacks went to the same school. I went from grades one through nine in all-Black schools, then ten through twelfth were in the newly integrated schools in Marion County.

	M:	Did you have any relation to Fessenden Academy, is it?



	C:	Yeah. In fact, Fessenden Academy was right there in Marion County. It was one of the public schools within the Marion County School System. I knew many people who were in school at Fessenden. As a matter of fact, my brother in his later years was a teacher at Fessenden. It was coincidental that some of the





folks that were from Fessenden chose to go miles away from their community; it was a rural community outside of Ocala, to attend Ocala High School. They knew the quality of education was going to be worth that effort.

	M:	Was that your experience too? That going to Ocala High was—?



	C:	Having a mom as an educator was a huge benefit because she knew the differences, the very subtle sometimes unknown, sometimes not discussed nuances and differences that were in the divided systems. So she knew all about that stuff. She knew it would be a better education for me to go across the tracks as it were. Unfortunately when I was in the ninth grade—finishing the ninth grade—she had some major surgery and she died as a result. In the ninth grade, as I finished the ninth grade, I’m thinking to myself, “Oh boy, now what?” Because my dad was opposed to the idea. It was remarkable that I used my mom’s influence even in her death to sway him that I should go over there. It was I guess just a blessing that he acquiesced and said, “Yeah, your mom was probably right, so I’m going to let you go over there.” As a matter of fact, he carried us over there every single day. He carried us to school.

	M:	Wow, that’s interesting. Did you always plan on going to college?



	C:	Absolutely. Again I think it’s one of those benefits partly of having a parent who is an educator and partly of having family, extended family, whose background many of them were educated in college. It was just a matter of course. It wasn’t something that you gave it second thought. There are many folks here today who are first-generation college folks. That was not the case in my family. We had those examples and those mentors already ahead of us who had already paved





the way and who already set that example. College was—oh yeah, the answer is yes; a long way to say yes.

	M:	A good way to say yes. Was your father politically involved at all? I know that barbershops sometimes are an institution within the community.

	C:	In that sense, absolutely. He was politically involved with all the other folks who were in the barbershop who were politically involved, at least within the confines of that barbershop for sure. But he was not an activist as it were. However, my father was one of the folks who were fortunate enough to be asked to participate in the 1965 March on Washington. I guess his role in that March on Washington was to represent our local community: the Black folks in Ocala, Florida. That was one of his proudest moments. He decided that he was not going to be deterred. He was not gonna to be afraid. He did his bid to serve the community and the nation as it were in the March on Washington. That was the highlight of his political career, if you would.

	M:	That’s a pretty good highlight.



	C:	Otherwise it was confined to the barbershop.



	M:	Fair enough. How did you decide on going to UF? First, I should ask: what years did you attend UF?

	C:	1968 until March of 1973. I got started in September of 1968, but that goes back to the family tree and the family influence. Being a part of that college-educated group, again, it was not even a second thought; “Yes, you will go to college.” But the college that we’re thinking would be Florida A&M University or Bethune Cookman University, because most of my family graduated either from Florida





A&M University or Bethune Cookman University. That was where we were going to go; at least I was going to go. But in 1966, maybe [19]67, one of my physical education coaches discovered that I can run, jump and excel better than my classmates that led to me joining the track team. It led to me being better and better. It culminated in a state championship in track and field. As a result of that I was recruited by the University of Florida and several other Southeastern Conference schools, and several outside of the conference as a track and field athlete. That was really the beginning of the trek to the University of Florida despite my dad’s protest. Again, he reminded me of that time back in 1965 when he said, “No, I don’t think you should go over there, because you guys are going to get hammered,” so to speak. But as we continued to discuss this, my father and I, he realized, with the influence of family members and friends, that it would be a great opportunity for me to get a quality education and to get it at no cost.

Although he was very reluctant, and with very good reason, he decided to let me attend the University of Florida. I can tell you this, Ryan: during those years, he was instrumental in calming my fears despite being eighteen years old with no fears at all. He was just amazed that I received so many different threats, literal threats to my life, simply because I was offered a scholarship as the first Black athlete here at the University of Florida. They were death threats, threats of our demise the entire family. ‘I’ll never make it to Gainesville.’

	M:	Were these threats coming from Gainesville or in Ocala?



	C:	They might have come some from Gainesville, and I can probably discuss some of those too. But the local folks took the lead in making those threats. Although





it’s been documented that even some of the state legislators during that time were against the University of Florida awarding a scholarship to a Black athlete. Which surprises me; I didn’t realize that until many years later. Again, being eighteen years, no fear.

	M:	Understandable. When did the threat start to appear? Was it when you were first offered the scholarship?

	C:	Uh-huh. Immediately, and therefore my father was very reluctant. He goes, “I’m not going to let you go over there and die. You’re not going to go over there and let someone harm you. Why? You can get your college education somewhere else where people like you and accept you.” So I’m thinking, “Okay, University of Tennessee.” UT offered me one, and they had a great track and field program.

There were two considerations: quality education being number one, and then a great track and field program being number two. Of course they kind of flip- flopped depending on how good a week I had out on the track. But if I had to do it all over again, I’d do the same thing.

	M:	No regrets?



	C:	None whatsoever. I mean, that prejudice actually extended up to Gainesville into my days of my first year at the University of Florida. It was not without some consternation, a little bit of angst on my part. Again, the eighteen-year-old mentality overcame all of that. “Oh well, so what? Big deal, I’m stronger than any of that.” At the athletic dormitory, Yon Hall, was where I discovered this thing had permeated throughout the system, because some of the athletes were also obviously prejudiced. They had some dissatisfaction or disagreement with the





fact that I was there eating at the same training table with the rest of them. It was Jack Youngblood—many of us know who Jack Youngblood was, but you may not. He was a local sports hero here at the University of Florida as a defensive lineman. Jack Youngblood was the guy who ended all of that within several weeks of my arrival. I would sit there at the training table alone, and you may have one or two of my track buddies to join me because they just felt like they should. [Laughter] But if they weren’t in the training room, I would probably sit alone. Until one day, Jack Youngblood walked up to me and said, “Why are you sitting by yourself, boy?” Then I’m thinking, “Oh God, my dad was right. I’m going to die right here and right now!” So I stood up and thought, “At least I’m going to die standing up.” He looked at me, and I kept looking up at this big guy, and he said, “Is there something wrong with you?” He looked over at them, looked over at me, and shrugged his shoulders. I’m like, “No.” I was about to get in my defensive posture now; “Nothing is wrong with me.” He said, “Can I sit with you?” I was literally just flabbergasted. I’m going, “Yeah, if you want to.” [Laughter] That right there put an end to any type of prejudice from within the athletic side of the house as it were. That was a story that I’ll always remember for the rest of my life.

	M:	I can imagine. He had that much sway even outside of his sport.



	C:	Yeah, he’s a natural-born leader, Jack was. Plus he excelled on the football field as well, and they didn’t want to disrespect him. He was a head-basher. [Laughter]





	M:	A good guy to have on your side there. With that kind of youth I guess you sort of do and don’t understand the whole context of your situation. Did you feel like a pioneer like someone who is kind of breaking through and enabling other people to follow in your footsteps? Or were you mainly just thinking about surviving at that time?

	C:	I guess there were some thoughts of pioneering. It didn’t pervade my thoughts. It was not a primary thought. It didn’t have any significance as far as yes I’m leading the way here. It was just a matter of fact to me. I just happened to be the first Black scholarship athlete here at the University of Florida. I say “scholarship athlete” because I need to tell this part: despite the fact that I was the first Black student athlete awarded a scholarship here I was not the first Black athlete to compete here. My roommate’s name was Johnny Farrell Brown. Johnny was a cross-country runner. Cross-country season starts before the track season starts. He was the first one to compete as a Black athlete here at the University of Florida. That’s a part of the story that’s not widely known. That’s sometime untold. A lot of folks go, “Yeah, Ronald Coleman was the first Black athlete here at the University of Florida,” and that automatically includes competing at the University of Florida. Well. that little known tidbit needs to be out there, because I want to make sure Johnny gets the credit for that. A well deserved credit, at that. He came on his own without the benefit of a scholarship and was subsequently awarded a scholarship because he excelled in his sport as well.

	M:	Did you ever sense any resentment from the fact that you were funded and he was on his own? You guys got along well?





	C:	No. Absolutely yes, there was never any of that. He had financial aid. It’s not like he was digging in his pocket and going to work every day. We were taken care of financially, so there was no resentment at all.

	M:	Well so, was that kind of your support network? Who were your friends at the school when you needed to talk?

	C:	There were several hundred Black students here at the university in 1968; upwards of a thousand but not quite. That group of students pretty much knew each other, literally. We knew each other and socialized together. Of course the athletes throughout the athletic complex were a good group of friends, a support base as well once we got passed that initial episode.

	M:	That’s the nice thing about sports it establishes those bonds a lot of times. C:	Absolutely it does, it truly does.

	M:	Did other Black athletes come in the succeeding years while you were there?



	C:	The very next year, in 1969, I was a part of recruiting Willie Jackson and Leonard George as the first two Black football athletes here at the University of Florida.

Leonard is from Tampa, Florida, and Willie Jackson was from Sarasota, Florida. We were all great friends. It was good to be in the process of recruiting them, because now we had more inclusiveness in the athletic arena as it were. As opposed to just friends who were inside the university, now you got friends who were inside the dorm.

	M:	I’m sure that helps a lot. What did you do when you got sick? Did you go to the infirmary? I guess athletes had their own set up.





	C:	We did kind of have our own set up. However for common ailments rather we would go to the infirmary. They’d just truck us over there. But for athletic or sports related injuries or treatment that type of stuff, of course, we went down to the trainers.

	M:	What about for fun. Where did you go, what did you do, if you wanted to go out?



Did you stay on campus or off-campus?



	C:	Normally we would have social events right here on campus. We’d find a place, even if it was a dorm common area; we’d have parties and just have a good time. Occasionally later on as we got to meet other Black friends out in the community, we would join them out in the community. As people moved off campus into apartments and the like, we’d join them as well. So it was a good social atmosphere, a great social atmosphere. Then, having so many athletic friends, it just goes without saying that we socialized with them as well.

	M:	Where’d you get your hair cut?



	C:	I didn’t get many haircuts back then. That’s because the afro was in vogue at those times, despite the fact that it may have been a detriment to my track career.

	M:	[Laughter] I was thinking that.



	C:	I didn’t have a gigantic afro. I let it grow during the off-season for those several months. Generally speaking I only needed a haircut occasionally. I would get those haircuts in Ocala in my dad’s barbershop. It was really easy because it’s close enough. You could make that trip thirty-five miles away. He was so busy, so busy working and trying to make a living so that he could send my sister who’s





behind me to college. He didn’t have a lot of time to come up here and see me or watch the track meets and that kind of stuff. So I was quite often back down there, or maybe not so often; whenever I needed a haircut or some groceries.

That always counts. He was able to come up occasionally. During those occasions, back to the haircut question, he’d bring his clippers.

	M:	Fair enough. After all those threats and things initially, what was it like going back home? Did the community welcome you or was it just uneventful?

	C:	It was rather uneventful after that point. It died out like many things die out after people get accustomed to them. It’s after the change has been made, despite their protest and them not wanting to change. Once that change occurs, people learn to live with it. They pretty much know it’s the right thing to do anyway, but it’s just a matter of them not wanting it to happen. That small minority of people disappeared; literally, no more threats after that first year. Maybe for a year they continued for a short while, but after that it was a walk in the park.

	M:	I guess your father became more supportive of the decision as time went on, too?

	C:	He did. He really did.



	M:	So, well, you mentioned the local community. Did you go out to 5th Avenue very often? Did you get out to any of the other spots off-campus or was it mostly on campus?

	C:	For me and several of the athletes, it was mostly on campus simply because it was what we needed to do. If we wanted to excel at our sports we needed to be on a particular regimen that would lend to that. We couldn’t go out and party





during the week. We couldn’t miss a practice. On the weekends we were away or traveling or having local meets. I wouldn’t call that a detriment because quite often during the week, whenever I had extra money, I would go down to 5th Avenue to Mom’s Kitchen and get a good meal. That was one of the best meals in Gainesville. We knew a couple of barbeque places around. Every once in a while we’d do that, and have cookouts with friends either on campus or right off campus. It was a good social atmosphere for us, although somewhat restricted by our athletic requirements or restrictions as it were.

	M:	It’s a commitment.



	C:	It’s a commitment, yes, absolutely; and that’s a much better word for it: athletic commitment.

	M:	I try. So when you moved off campus or your friends did, where did they move to usually?

	C:	Most people moved within, I’d say, walking distance from the campus, within a half mile radius. There were several who either grew up or lived in Gainesville for some amount of time. They either had homes or they moved to places that were further away. As the years passed, folks would get further and further outside the box that surrounds campus as it were.

	M:	Let’s say you were going to Mom’s; Did you get in the car, was it the bus system, or did you just walk?

	C:	Quite often, we just walked because it’s only a few blocks away. The luxury was to find somebody, anybody, with a car, and pile in and go. You just piled in and went. Occasionally the coach would let me use his car; it was a 1968 Bonneville.





A big long, white Bonneville. I remember it well. He’d say, “Be sure to bring my car back.” We’d all pile in that thing, because it was big enough to hold like ten people—literally. We’d all pile in that thing and just go. So whatever method of convenience we could contrive, that’s what we used. Quite often we walked.

	M:	So on campus did you have any mentors? Any particular people you could go to and say what you were stressed about or just wanted advice about that kind of thing?

	C:	The coach was my primary stress reliever. Coach Jimmy Carnes. Jimmy Carnes is the guy who came to Ocala in 1968 to pluck me out of the weeds as it were, to bring me to the grass. He was instrumental in making sure that I was okay. He indeed had some of the same concerns that my father had. He couldn’t just ignore those being a reasonable person. He also was concerned about my welfare as a student athlete. In the early days when my grades began to suffer, he would call me in and say, “Look, this is what you need to do.” He sent me to one specific person, and I can’t for the life of me remember this person’s name at this minute. I’m sure I’ll think of it later. There was one person up in the academic counseling center that I could go to and he would counsel, guide, and direct me to do the right things. So there was some counseling involved. I was glad to be able to have that available because it was essential to me sometimes.

	M:	We haven’t got into it yet but what did you major in?



	C:	Journalism and Communications. As a matter of fact, that was my third major. When I arrived here in 1968, my major was Sociology simply because that was my brother’s major. I didn’t really have something in mind that I wanted to do,





believe it or not. Most folks when they’re coming out of high school, they know, “I’m going to go and I’m going to major in this, this, and this.” I felt that sociology was where I wanted to go because of following his college career he had graduated in the same year. I’m thinking that sounds interesting. I think I’ll do that too. That’s what I did for a year and a half, maybe. Then, I decided I was pretty good at this PE stuff; I was going to change my major, you know? “I can do that real well.” After I did that for a year and a half, or two years, I’m thinking, “I don’t want to do this.” The third change to Journalism and Communications, I stuck with that to the end.

	M:	Was that a class that hooked you?



	C:	Yeah, in talking with some of my classmates and friends. I found it very interesting where that could lead you, and some of the things that they do. It was much to my liking. I thought that’s really interesting. For the very first time I chose a major with a purpose, for a reason with a long term goal. I could see something in the future with this major. Not just because my brother did it or just because I was good at track and field.

	M:	Fair enough. I forgot to ask this, sorry to backtrack. You faced some threats and people didn’t want you to come here. As far as your coach, do you know if any pressure was put on him because he made the decision to bring you here? Was that mostly directed at you or did he have any difficulties?

	C:	I know for a fact that he had pressures directed at him, as well. A part of that pressure I mentioned earlier was not just from the local community. It extended outside of the local community specifically from Tallahassee. The legislature—





well I shouldn’t say legislature. There were several legislators who specifically did not want that to happen, and they let him know it in no uncertain terms. He was under the gun as well. He was quite the pioneer himself: Jimmy Carnes. I really admire him not only as a mentor, not only as a coach but as a real man who stood up and knew the possible consequences of bringing on the first Black athlete here at the University of Florida. Not only physical harm that could potentially happen to him as the result of some extreme behavior, but the literal consequences of his career as well. He could have been ostracized by the track and field community, the athletic community. Fortunately, he chose to ignore those threats, those challenges, and accept the challenge rather in bringing me on board. So did his athletic director, who was also in somewhat of a similar situation: Ray Graves. Ray Graves and Coach Jimmy Carnes both came to Ocala, Florida and signed me to that scholarship despite the challenges, objections, and threats and all that went with it.

	M:	On that topic, when you were here in Gainesville, did you experience any adversity or discrimination? I guess it was taken care of within the athletic group. But outside of that, it’s a big campus and a town that has its own history. Are there any experiences you would like to share about that?

	C:	There are no particular experiences that challenged me outside of the campus. However that was still 1968 through 1972. The same things that were happening in communities across the nation were still happening here in Gainesville as well. There were places that you probably could not go without being challenged.

There were things that you couldn’t do without crossing the line, literally, because





that line was a color barrier. There were things that were common to many communities throughout the nation during those times. There were challenges here on campus, as well. The Black Student Union would take part in asking for, requesting, and demanding in some cases for changes on campus. As a result protests were instituted, protests were led, protests were held. Again, that put me in somewhat of a quandary. Here I am Mr. Scholarship Athlete with certain requirements and obligations regarding that athletic commitment. Yes, I could participate, but only to an extent. When the police show up and pull out the handcuffs, I’m out the back door. That’s if I wanted to maintain that scholarship. It was a bit of a quandary to be able to participate in some of those protests, some of those things that were necessary to further the cause of Black Studies and Black pride here on this campus. However, to not be able to fully involve one’s self was a bit of a quandary. It left you feeling a little empty. When you knew things were going down and the heat was on, you had to get back to practice. “Sorry guys, I’ll see you in the morning, but I got to get back to practice.”

	M:	Did that cause any tension or did people understand?



	C:	None whatsoever. They respected that and admired the fact that we were willing to participate to the extent that we could.

	M:	Did any of your close friends experience any difficult stuff around that time?



	C:	[Laughter] Oh yeah, absolutely. As a matter of fact, the walk-in or sit-in at Tigert Hall, I was right there. I was a part of it right up until the buses drove up to herd everyone up and cart them off to jail. As a matter of fact, I stood in the background and watched it all happen. “Sorry I’m not on the bus with you, but I





got to go to practice.” But many of them were a part of that. Many of them who are in this room today were a part of that. They got handcuffed and led off to jail.

	M:	Serious stuff.



	C:	Yeah, it was serious stuff. Again, a part of what was happening in communities throughout the nation. It just happened to be particular to this campus and this city. There was a Civil Rights Movement going on off campus in the city of Gainesville. Several of us participated in that as well.

	M:	Do you have any particular memories of those off campus events?



	C:	None that stood out. To us at the time they had become commonplace. Having grown up in that environment, having done picketing, and sit-ins, and protests for years and years, it all became just a part of the scenery. There was no particular event nothing that stood out outside of the campus in my memory. I can imagine some of my friends may have some because again, I’m off to practice while they were out there. [Laughter]

	M:	Understandable. Do you have any memories of other protests? Women’s rights?



That was a time of a lot of protesting.



	C:	Absolutely. Women’s rights were huge, but not as huge as the Anti-Vietnam Movement at the time. Those rallies were larger than the pro-women’s rights rallies. Those are the two that stand out the most. The Vietnam protests were probably more significant as far as a memory item because of the intensity of it all. The Women’s Right Movement was rather peaceful, for lack of a better word, in comparison to the rallies. You’d have the supporters and the protestors for Vietnam, and they’d clash right out there on campus. Again, I’m on the periphery.





M:  Were a lot of Black students involved with the Vietnam protests or the women’s protests?

C:  More so with both, actually. I think it was more as a moral issue as opposed to a personal issue. It was more of a challenge for us during those times to study and stay in school. That was primarily important.

M:  Did a lot of your Black friends end up dropping out? Did you know a lot of people who struggled?

	C:	Oh yeah, absolutely. There were many cases of people taking a semester off or a couple of semesters off and then coming back, or the following semester when the school started they just wouldn’t be there, and they just kind of lose—. I knew quite a few.

	M:	Do you know why? Was it usually financial?



	C:	There were various reasons for that. Several involved finances of course, if you can’t get the financial aid. It’s not a free school. Some were for grades. Some were for situations regarding family. Either they had to go back and take care of family, or go back to work to support the family. There were various issues like that. Some moved and some went to other schools. There are many, many reasons for that. You’d see students come and go.

	M:	I guess you didn’t have much time for it but were any of your friends involved with other leadership organizations. You mentioned Black Student Union, maybe Greek organizations?

	C:	I was not personally involved with Greek organizations. There were no Black, per se, fraternities here during my tenor. I think the first fraternity came on campus





sometime during the early [19]70s. There was a quasi-fraternal organization here on campus by the time I left.

	M:	What was that?



	C:	I think it was Kappa Alpha Psi, but I’m not sure. M:	Okay. It gives us something to go on.

	C:	Yeah it was either the Kappas or Omegas. M:	So it was not official?

	C:	It was just forming.



	M:	Good to know. Did you attend other sporting events besides your meets? Were you at football games or baseball games?

	C:	Oh yeah. I fully supported the entire athletic arena all of them. That was one of the pleasures of being here. Being able to get into those venues and see the other athletes that you live with, eat with, just do everything with on a daily basis, to see them at their best on their field of play. I definitely attended as many events as I could during my off time whenever I was not engaged.

	M:	I guess that was a reciprocal kind of feeling.



	C:	Oh yeah. They’d come down and give us grief. [Laughter] They’d show up yell and scream and do all the things cheerleaders do.

	M:	Naturally. I guess I didn’t ask but I guess I should: did you experience any particularly racially-motivated adversity at away games?

	C:	Oh gosh, yes. That was relatively common, especially throughout the southeast.



Once we got out of the southeast, I didn’t notice it much. It might have been because we were too engaged in logistics of getting back and forth, and you just





don’t have time to notice that stuff. When you drive to an area in the southeast you’re driving through areas that you’ve lived in, figuratively speaking, all of your life. I remember one specific example in Tuscaloosa, Alabama. We arrived in Tuscaloosa, checked into the hotel, and decided it’s time to go get something to eat. There were two carloads of us, and we pulled up into this restaurant and went inside. I noticed right away that conversation became hushed immediately after we walked in. They didn’t think anything of it, my teammates were all White so I’m the only Black guy there. I’m thinking, “Oh boy, I wonder why they got quiet all of a sudden.” Actually, I didn’t wonder; I already knew. Now it’s just about completely quiet. We’re just sitting around having a good time. I’m being very observant listening and looking. All of a sudden we hear from behind the counter—a bar-type counter where people would sit and eat. There were tables out in the area. We heard, “We don’t serve niggers in here.” My teammates kind of stopped and said, “What did he say?” He said it a little bit louder so that it was clear: “We don’t serve niggers in here.” One of my teammates, who’s from Chicago—I don’t know where this came from or how he thought of it—he says, “That’s okay, because we don’t eat them.”

	R:	[Laughter]



	C:	I’m thinking, “We’re in trouble!” Now, I’m facing the kitchen area, and I see a head pop out. It’s either one of the servers or somebody who works there, a Black guy, and he’s gesturing to—“Come here, come here.” I’m telling him, “Hold on.” I’m talking to my teammates, and I tell them, “Why don’t you guys order me this, and I’m going back to the car. Let’s get back to the hotel. You guys eat here





and I’ll be fine. Just order me this, and bring it back to the car when you’re done. I need to get out of here.” They’re thinking no. Now they’re getting a little boisterous, a little bit louder—“We’re not going anywhere, you’re going to serve us—.” In the meantime, I already notice this one guy walk out, giving us the eye. Within a minute, this guy is walking back in, literally with a rifle held across his chest. He walks back in and props himself against the bar, he’s facing us, and he said, “The man says, we don’t serve nigras”—he didn’t quite say ‘nigras’ [Laughter]—in this place. Okay. So, by this time we’re all getting up from the table, with the exception of my one trackmate from Chicago. He was adamant: “We’re not going anywhere!” So of course, they snatched him up. You’re fighting a rifle, dude? [Laughter] We all just got out of that place without getting anything to eat. Now everyone’s afraid, we didn’t get anything to eat and there—literally, two cars followed us all the way back to the hotel. That was probably one of the scariest moments, being literally threatened with a weapon. Other than that one occasion with the weapon in sight, it was all verbal threats and insinuations.

Things like, “We don’t want you here,” “Go home, nigger,” as it were. Things were coming out of the stands. It was a bit to deal with. However having grown up with that, it was not new to me. Being eighteen, nineteen, twenty years old, “Oh well, you’re the ignorant one. I’m having a great time. I’m going to the University of Florida.”

	M:	Do you think the team just tried to ignore it or did it fuel your passion to win?



	C:	Well that could actually fuel a person’s passion to excel. It’s kind of one of those I’ll show you kind of things. But more so than that it was just something you





brushed under the table and you just carried it on. The way I grew up and the way I was taught: despite adversity, you excelled, you achieved, you compensate. Just do it.

	M:	Did Gainesville fans support you through your time here? C:	Oh, yeah.

	M:	So they were all behind you.



	C:	Uh-huh, yeah, there was no question about that. The town kind of grew on us, and of course we grew fond of being a part of it all.

	M:	While you were here, did you go to church or anything?



	C:	Yeah but not regularly. It just was not a part of our weekly routine. Quite often, we’d be travelling on Sundays. For the most part when we were here I would occasionally go to church, but not as often as I did before I came to Gainesville.

	M:	Was there a particular church you went to?



	C:	No, not really. There was not a favorite church or a particular church that I went to.

	M:	Just go with someone who was going. Fair enough. Is there anything else about your experience at UF you would like to add before we move on to today?

	C:	No, not particularly. I think the story has probably been told from the perspective of many of my friends, classmates and teammates as well. I wish that more of them were here to share and relate their experiences. I’m personally going to work on that to try and get more of them to participate in future weekends like this so that we can get their stories as well, because I’m sure they remember details that I don’t remember. They had similar experiences that have their own





unique differences. I’m going to try and work on getting them to share their stories, as well. I think most of the stories are being told here this weekend. Future weekends, I hope that we can get all of these stories down because they’re all relevant, they’re all particular, and they’re all unique.

	M:	Well put. I couldn’t have put it better myself. I guess as a final question: what was your experience like academically? Did you encounter any adversity in the classroom? Was it just a simple matter of trying to keep your GPA up? I mean, that’s more than a full-time job. It’s about two full-time jobs.

	C:	I don’t think that there was any particular adversity. I don’t think I ever encountered an instructor, an advisor, or student aid that was particularly prejudiced or discriminatory for any particular reason, especially because I was Black. I don’t think I ever encountered that.

	M:	What’s it like to come back to an event like this now? You said there were a number of attendees at this meeting that’s at least a third of the number of Black students on campus when you were going to school.

	C:	That’s right. It is truly wonderful to revisit and see some of the people who were here when I was here. That’s a very special memory and fond memory. A very special time for many of us—of all of us, I would think. Then to have the younger folk who are here now who love to hear of these different experiences that we had when we were here. They cherish these moments together. It’s like they want to hear some of the things that happened then so that they can relate to how, when, and why they were able to come here and become students. It’s particularly encouraging and enlightening. It’s a highlight of this time of year, the





beginning of football season. I know I’m going to be able to get back there and see some of the folks that I used to live and play with. I get to meet some of the younger folks who are here now and serve as inspiration to us to continue to do this type of thing. To have reunions, and to get people involved, to establish and support the endowment, to present scholarships all of those things. It’s just a wonderful time of year as it were.

	M:	Fair enough. I guess that covers most of the remaining questions. Do you have any final thoughts to add?

	C:	No, nothing in particular. I just hope, as I mentioned, that we’re able to get more folks involved, especially those who for whatever reason have not returned. To get their perspectives, get their highlights, get their stories and get them to share in this, because it truly is a wonderful sharing experience.

	M:	It’s been wonderful sharing with you. Thank you very much. C:	Thank you too, Ryan. I really appreciate it. Thanks a lot.

	M:	A pleasure. [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Andre Everette, March 2014 Audit-edited by:	Anna Jimenez, June 2014

	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 19, 2019