AAHP 035, Mickle, Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 035 Evelyn Moore Mickle African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by on February 7, 2009 9 minutes | 6 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Evelyn Moore Mickle reflects on her time at the University of Florida at the Celebrate the Firsts Weekend Gala. Mrs. Mickle was the first African American graduate of the College of Nursing at UF, and was offered a scholarship to study there. She defined her time at UF as a struggle to prove her worth as an African American student. She also discusses the importance of Mt. Carmel Baptist Church in her life, as well as its longtime pastor Rev. T.A. Wright.





Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida; Celebrate the Firsts; Integration]



















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 035

Interviewee: Evelyn Mickle Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: February 7, 2009



	W:	We’re having an interview with Mrs. Evelyn Mickle here at the Celebrate the Firsts Weekend Gala here at the University of Florida, in Emerson Hall. Thank you for being here with us to talk about your experiences at the University of Florida.

	M:	Thank you for having me.



		W:	What is your first reflection of your time spent here at the University of Florida? M:		Well, my first reflection would be the first day that I came on campus, and going down the hill, and coming up to J. Hillis Miller Health Center. I remember

thinking: how would I ever find my way around in this huge building? That was my first impression. I was excited, because, you know, I was going to get to do what I really wanted to do, and that is become a nurse.

W:  So, you got your degree in nursing here at the University of Florida in 1965? M:  1967.

W:   1967.



M:   August 1967.



	W:	And when did you start?



	M:	I started in September of 1965. I transferred from a community college, Hampton Junior College, in Ocala, so I already had an Associate of Arts degree.

	W:	Why did you choose the University of Florida?



	M:	Well, I chose the University of Florida—the main reason was because I was extended an invitation to come. And so, when I came and was interviewed, the result was that I was accepted, and they were offering me the necessary





finances that I needed to continue my education. And so, I did accept because not only that, but several of my friends were coming as well, and so I felt like I’d have a support system.

	W:	With this year being the University of Florida’s fifty-year anniversary of integration with Celebrate the Firsts, what do you think has happened over those fifty years that’s important to you?

	M:	Over those fifty years that’s important to me, students do not have to really prove themselves because they are African-American students. I felt a burden to have to prove myself as an African-American, and also as just a student.

	W:	So that struggle defined your experience here at the University of Florida? M:	It most definitely defined my sojourn at the University of Florida.

	W:	Do you feel that struggle continues today?



	M:	I would imagine that to a small extent it might, but nothing to the extent that the first of us experienced. I just don’t believe that students are still being rejected by faculty and other students, and refusing to work with them on any scale. You know, there may be one here and there, but this was a commonplace for me.

The faculty tolerated me for the most part, but very few embraced me as a student learning the art that they was teaching, and that they lived.

	W:	How do you feel being back here tonight with another invitation, since we’re all so honored to have you here—in the time that’s passed until now, how does being invited to something like this make you feel about your overall University of Florida experience?





	M:	Well first of all, I have to tell you that I was invited to serve on the fifty-year commemoration of integration at the University of Florida committee for the planning and culminating of tonight. And I’m very grateful. I’m very thankful. And I am really elated to be here tonight, to see some of the Firsts that were here when I was here, and just the coming together, I think, is—it’s a healing. It’s something that we really need to do for our own personal well-being, as well as the well- being of the university.

	W:	How do you feel about today’s students at the University of Florida? In comparison to your experience, how is their experience going to be different?

	M:	They just won’t have the kind of struggles that we had. They won’t. There’s more of them. There’s more support for them. There are organizations that they can become involved in—not just African American organizations, but college organizations in general. They are across the board. And more faculty—the administration embraces them with a different attitude and atmosphere. And so, I just feel it’s much better for them. There has been a change. And the change needs to continue. I would say that I think most of the students that are here in 2009 do not have any idea as to what we went through for them to be here.

	W:	Do you feel that you also stand on the shoulders of pioneers, people that were here supporting you in the community when you went to school?

	M:	Yes, I didn’t know anyone when I came to Gainesville, but I immediately connected with Mount Carmel Baptist Church. Reverend Wright was the pastor, and you know Reverend Wright received the first honorary doctorate of an African American, and so he’s Dr. Thomas A. Wright. I would say that if there





was one person who contributed more than anyone else in this area to integration and equal rights for people in general, it would be him. And so, I would say that because I became a part of that extended family, they became my family and my support group.

	W:	What are your wishes towards students and the community for the next fifty years?

	M:	Nursing provides care for people until they’re able to provide care for themselves. So, my wish is that they would do as President Obama has encouraged all of us to do, and that is to give back, to effect change with your abilities, your gifts, whatever you can do. You make a difference where you are. And that’s what I would like to see in our young people. I would like to see that enlarged upon as we go through the next fifty years, so that at the end of the next fifty years, it won’t be necessary to have these kind of gatherings. All of the gatherings will be just, you know, the ordinary. It would be the norm, as opposed to something that’s exceptional and different.

	W:	Is that your definition of leadership? M:	Yes. That’s my definition of leadership.

	W:	Well, I have to ask you, because we have this campaign this year—someone else will probably ask you tonight as well—but, when did you first become a Gator?

	M:	I—you know, I really don’t know when I first became a Gator, because for a long time, I could not say that I was a Gator. Not really. But, in the late [19]70s and the early [19]80s, I worked with another group of African Americans who were





affiliated with the University of Florida: Dr. Bill Simmons—he was the first director of the Institute of Black Culture. We did bring together graduates—African American graduates—to celebrate and to be a part of the network of the University of Florida. So I think I’ve always been a Gator since I walked on campus, because we went to the football games, and we did the parade. But after that, there really wasn’t much that we did. However, I do know that without a shadow of a doubt, I am a graduate of the University of Florida. And, go Gators!

	W:	Thank you very much. We really appreciate the interview. Evelyn Mickle, graduate of the University of Florida in 1967, in Nursing. Thank you so much.

	M:	Yes. The name is Evelyn Moore Mickle. W:	Evelyn Moore.

	M:	For history purposes. W:	Yes, of course.

	M:	For history purposes. Evelyn Moore Mickle. W:	Thank you.

	M:	Thank you. Thank you so much.



	W:	Now, is there anything that we didn’t touch on that you would like to add just in your own words? We could do a little quick thing, maybe—

	M:	No, I think that’s enough, because you have other persons that you’ve got to interview.

	W:	Okay.



	M:	Okay?





	W:	All right. Thank you so much. And I hope to hear from you on Monday, and I hope that you will be able to accept our invitation for March 17th.

	M:	Okay. Yes, all right. [End of interview.]







	Audit edited by:	Venetia ponds, April 3, 2017



	Ryan Morini, April 17, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019