AAHP 199; Griffin; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 199 Clara Griffin

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Ayana Flewellen on October 26, 2011 55 minutes | 31 pages



Abstract: Clara Griffin reflects on her more than fifty years of serving as a hairdresser in Gainesville, Florida in the 5th Avenue neighborhood, and the current state of Black beauty aesthetics and hair fashions. She also talks from her years of experience about different hairstyling techniques, products, and practices, and talks about the monetary aspects of her profession. She also talks about studying in Atlanta to become a beautician, and of competing in fashion shows as a hairstylist. Mrs. Griffin shares some of her memories also of the Black businesses on 5th Avenue, and the changes she has seen in the community.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Beauticians]





















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 199

Interviewee: Clara Griffin Interviewer: Ayana Flewellen Date: October 26, 2011



	F:	I know Joel, he interviewed you in the [19]80s. I wanted to just have an updated interview, see how things are now, and definitely I wanted to get your opinion on, you know, fashion and hairstyles and how you see young people wearing their hair, and especially the prices that are skyrocketing these days. [Laughter] So, if you can just tell me, how long were you doing hair?

	G:	Okay. When you get ready to start, I’ll start. You have it on now? F:	Mhmm.

	G:	Okay. I’m Clara Griffin and being interviewed today by one of the University of Florida students. And it’s a pleasure to talk with her—

	F:	Thank you.



	G:	I miss all the young, college girls who coming over to my salon, but I retired in [20]08. But I opened my business up in 1962. I finished cosmetology in 1946. Then I came to Gainesville and opened a shop right here, on the corner of 7th Ave and 8th Street. And I worked in my community here over 50 years before I retired in [20]08. And it was a joy and a pleasure of doing the students –one would come and the other would go back to campus and say, “Well who did your hair?” And they said, “Clara, over at Clara’s Beauty, and it’s not far from campus,” which it’s not. I’m over on the northwest side of town. Come off of 13th Street, right down 7th Avenue from campus. So it was just a joy to meet the students coming in from different cities and communicating with them. They wasn’t too picky about a lot of fancy styles. The most they wanted that hair permed and healthy -looking, which I tried to do my best to do that and keep the





clients coming back. But today, fashion of hairstyles—. [Laughter] It’s just unbelievable. It’s not—some of ‘em not healthy. They putting glue in their hair and sticking hair on, and everybody want long hair; and everybody wasn’t born to have long hair. And if you treat it right, it will get long. But I think we’re—in the Black race—we’re just overdoing it. The White has been wearing extensions for years and years, but we always thought that was their hair ‘cause their hair grows fast because they have more oil in their scalp than we do. And what make hair grow is just like a garden—you gotta keep it fertilized. So, therefore, they all made their hair grow faster than ours where we had to put oil and cream on our scalp to keep it fertilized I would say, to make it grow. It was just a joy to go to the different shows, see the different styles and learn more about hair and chemicals because we started dealing with chemicals. The state law, we had to go and take classes and learn more about chemicals ‘cause we working with chemicals. And if you know anything about chemicals, if you don’t know what you doing with them, you can really, really get messed up and get sued. But like I said, today’s styles, the young kids, I—the natural looks is nice: the twists, the braids. But I just don’t go for all the weave they’re putting in their hair now. I like to see them look natural and be themselves. Certain occasions, yes, you might have to go high fashion. But, I see so many high fashions every day, which is not appropriate to be wearing every day for hairdos. I think if we would just think about it, say “Well I am gonna just go to nature and let this hair grow and get natural.” We used to wear the afros, and the hair was nice when it was kept shampooed and trimmed and shaped. I think we need to kinda get back into that a little more than so much





chemicals because cancer is a problem. It takes the hair out. And then you using chemicals and you don’t know what it’s doing to the body or the hair shaft. I think we need to go more back to the straightening comb—I’ll call it straightening comb because that’s the old fashion way it was that was straight curl and press. And that—People hair was more healthier, to me, as it is today with all this chemicals cause you do get damage if you don’t know what you’re doing. And if you get a relaxer in your hair, and don’t keep up with your beautician, you know, you gonna have some problems.

	F:	Do you think that the change in technology, like the use of more chemicals, it makes, its making taking care of your hair worse? Or do you think it’s making it easier? Because I know back in my—when I was younger, for church, my aunt would always put the hot comb on the stove, run it straight through my hair. And even though it was painful. [Laughter] I liked it a lot more than when she started giving me relaxers.

	G:	Yes, cause it burn.



	F:	And my hair was a lot longer way before she started— G:	Oh yeah.

	F:	Giving me relaxers.



	G:	Right, right. Yeah, like I say, the old fashioned way really need to come back.



Well, it’s back, but it’s called flat iron. They doing a lot of flat iron, blow drying, flat iron. And that’s not too good either cause you can flat iron that hair so much, you can’t even get a curl to hold in your hair. So, it’s all really coming back to the old fashion way. And like you said, straightening was the hot comb, but then you get





the relaxer and get the strength you not supposed to have, like you have the mild, regular and super. And some people can take a mild; some can take a regular; some can take super. But if you don’t prepare that scalp before you use that chemical, you gonna burn then [Laughter] badly. It’s like the straightening comb, if you straightening hair, and touch that scalp, well you might can just kinda get by that a little bit and put a little oil on there. It’ll heal up, but chemicals doesn’t heal as fast as—

	F:	No. [Laughter] G:	Just touch ‘em.

	F:	I remember getting chemical— G:	Oh my God.

	F:	Sores from getting—yeah—from when I got, when I used to get relaxers. G:	Mhmm. Oh yeah.

	F:	Those were not— G:	That’s right.

	F:	Fun. Especially if they were like near the front. G:	Right.

	F:	But those were the beauticians I went to when I was younger. I don’t think they were as skilled [Laughter] with it.

	G:	Yes.



	E:	Do you think—cause I know you mentioned, you know, taking it back to the old fashion, do you think that’s why you see more people with natural hair or afros





and things like that? That they’re just trying to get back to taking care of their hair themselves or—

	G:	I think a lot of it is. And then, it’s, like I say, the prices is gone so sky high— F:	[Laughter]

	G:	With the chemicals— E:	Yes.

	G:	People just, I think gone eventually go back natural. Yeah, see that every day.



But, it might take a little time. But I think it will soon come back—natural.



	F:	Yeah. [Laughter] I know, as I mentioned to you, my relaxers would cost me $100.



When you first started doing hair, I know you mentioned to Joel Buchanan that you would charge fifty cents—

	G:	That’s right



	F:	When you first started doing hair. Now you see the prices are about 100.



	G:	Oh yes, yes. Yeah, I did hair [Laughter] starting out at, before I was licensed to do hair, I would charge fifty cents. They would have to shampoo their hair, and I’d straighten it, curl it and go out just like they’d been to a real beautician. Well I thought I was a real beautician because I feel like this was my calling to do hair. And I knew how to click the little tin irons before I learned how to use the Marcel irons, the heavy irons. So, then I went to seventy-five cents. And when I came out of school in 1946, hairdos was like $3.50—For straightening and curling.

$3.50



	F:	$3.50. [Says in Unison]





	G:	Yes. So when I graduated and came on up, up, up, up, up and when I start making $20 and $25, I thought I was really doing it up then. And I was saying “How long have I been doing this for $.50 and $.75?” But like I say, today’s time is—I think it’s a highway robbery. Products is high; Products cost a lot of money.

	F:	Yes they do.



	G:	But when you buying in bulks, you can give your customers a lil break, I think, you know. You can get three or four relaxers outta one jar, if you use it right. So hey, you not really losing. Overhead is, I’m quite sure, with some people, is high, but I was fortunate enough to the city let me build onto my home here, so I didn’t have a lot of overhead. So that made it—me—I would say could drop my prices a little. Yeah, stayed busy, but I didn’t try rob anybody.

	F:	[Laughter]



	G:	Yeah.



F:  Can you tell me a little bit ‘cause I know you mentioned that when you went to beauty school in Atlanta. I just wanted to get just a sense of how it was during that time when you were—

G:  Okay, back in the [19]40s, in Atlanta Georgia, on Albion Avenue, we had an Apex Beauty School, and we had a Mademoiselle Beauty Salon on that same street.

And it was just a joy to be there, to go to classes—went to classes just like everyday school. We had to be there every day from eight until five and on Saturdays sometimes all day ‘cause we would do clients that just walk in. But during the school day, we would work on mannequins. And when we got through with mannequins, we’d move on up to real people. She would let us start there. It





was a joy. I got a kick out of it ‘cause I met a lot of friends and like I said, when I came home, I was ready to roll.

F:   [Laughter] What did you guys do in your free time—



G:  And right now, the school I went to in Atlanta, Martin Luther King Center is on that street. And it’s not the same Albion Avenue, but it was very popular in the [19]40s. And for recreation, that’s what you just asked me?

F:   Mhmm. [Laughter]



	G:	We would go to movies. Friends invite you to their homes, and we’d have parties.



So it was fun. Yeah. School would put on little functions like fashion shows for certain, you know, the schools and what have you. But I enjoyed it.

	F:	And how was it coming back to Gainesville?



	G:	It was fine ‘cause I was coming back home. I was coming back home. Although I met a lot of nice people, but it was not like home. And I’ve come back to say I accomplished something that my community could enjoy and have somewhere to come and not have to go across town, downtown, to get a hairdo. So I think I kinda brought something back to Gainesville. And I tried to be in a lot of social clubs and always was giving to this organization and that organization, and I don’t know why they would play on beauticians and business. Every little thing, they would come by with a ticket to sell. I add a something, you know. So I guess they just felt like business people had money and wanted to advertise. But I always let my work do my advertisement. I never did advertise in the papers or nothing like that. I just let my work speak for itself.

	F:	‘Cause the community knew.





	G:	Yeah.



	F:	Yeah.



	G:	“That’s the little girl used to do my hair!” [Laughter] Back then, they tell me in the kitchen. Yes, so, it was a pleasure coming back home, and I enjoyed every minute of it. I educated four children, five children outta here. So, was married, and then, a second marriage…the Good Lord took him so. Other than that, I’ve been a single mother, and they will call me and say “Can’t you just come back in here and do my hair one more time?” [Laughter]

	F:	[Laughter]



	G:	And I say, “Nooo, if I do you, I got to do the other.” So I don’t have anything to work with in here. My little stash—I got my little stash, and I do my own hair ‘cause I wear a lot of hair pieces. But, other than that, no—If I had to do it all over again, I would ‘cause it was something I liked to do.

	F	I know you mentioned that your daughter is a beautician



	G:	Yes, she took after—She went to barbering school. And now she worked with me for bout twenty years, and then she wanted to go out on her own. And I told her she left to early because time I got ready to retire, she had gone. So we didn’t try to encourage her to come back. Let her make a name for herself.

	F:	Where did she go? G:	To school?

	F:	Mhmm.



	G:	In Miami.



	F:	Is she still there?





	G:	She’s here.



	F:	Oh she’s—



	G:	Yeah. She’s over on Sixth Street. And the shop is Connie’s. F:	Connie’s?

	G:	Uh huh. Connie’s Beauty Salon. Yeah, she went—she holds two license: barber and cosmetology license. Mhmm.

	F:	And your other? Your other children?



	G:	Okay. Ronald, that’s my son, he works at Shands over here. He’s managing a lot over there. And then I had a daughter to teach school in Atlanta. That’s my oldest daughter, and Charles, my son, he was a CNA in nursing. Then I had another daughter, Loretta went to the service and did 23 years—

	F:	Wow.



	G:	And now she’s working for the government. So they all out and busy. F:	[Laughter]

	G:	All out and busy, yeah. F:	So, you retired in [20]08? G:	Yes.

	F:	Is there a reason why? Or you felt like it was time.



	G:	The only—Yes, yes, No. Well I had a problem with a sciatic nerve in my leg. So recovering from that, I decided, and the kids had been warning me all the time, “It’s time, Mom, it’s time to give it up.” And, I laid in the bed and thought about it and I say, “Well, my leg hurt me this bad, and I had to go to a hospital, I don’t think I ‘m going back in that shop.





	F:	[Laughter]



	G:	So the morning my daughter came in she said, I said, “Well, Connie, I’m not going back in the shop.” And oh, they were so happy. She got on the phone and called all of the rest of ‘em, “Mother says she’s not going back in that shop.” And they was so happy about it. Yeah, but other than—that’s the only—I imagine I’d be working now. I’m eighty-five, but I feel good. Like I say, I feel like I can come in here and do at least four or five heads. [Laughter] Although I don’t need to cause I can’t stand long now like I used to, on account of that arthritis that set in. But other than that…that’s why I retired.

	F:	It seems as if you have a lasting legacy here in the community. G:	Yeah.

	F:	And that’s nice. I remember I read a book by Tiffany Gill and she—it’s called Beauty Shop Politics, and she talks about how the beauty shop was more than just a place where women came to get their hair done—

	G:	That’s right.



	F:	It was a community center, as well. Could you talk about just—



	G:	Oh yea, now I’ll tell you what, my kids—By living right here in the home here, and customers come in and say, “I’m so hungry. You got anything over there to eat?” I’d go stop and go and make ‘em sandwich and bring em—I’d sell drinks in here, sodas. And they would come. We would—they would bring food; we would socialize in here and have fun! Yeah, they wanted to come to Lil’ Clare—most people called me “Little Clare” [Laughter]—-but right back in the sitting room, where the dryers was, we’ve had many days of good times. And I always would





invite them to come and have tea on my day off or coffee. Yeah, so it was joyful time. And my daughter said, “Oh yeah, she like to entertain and do hair. [Laughter] She’ll feed ya now. She’ll feed ya.” But it was a pleasure.

F:   So can you tell me ‘cause I know you’ve been here, because you’ve been here for quite some time, you’ve seen the Pleasant Street change; you’ve seen Fifth Ave. change; could you talk a little bit about that?

		G:	Yes! I remember Pleasant Street. That’s the street my church is on. And it used to be a theater, Metts Theatre there. It used to be a doctor’s office there. It used to be a dentist office there, Dr. DuBose. And what else? Black Pressing Club, where we carried out clothes to the cleaners and have ‘em—owned by Black— and Fifth Avenue, it was the place—that’s the only place we had to go like for theater, restaurants, dance hall, which is the Walbash Hall down there now—it’s all boarded up, Sarah McKnight—we’d go there on the weekends for jazz night. All of this—Oscar Gilbert’s shoe shop—We had Oscar and the barbershop; all that was on Fifth Avenue. Had once church on the corner down there. Then we had a grocery store across the street on the corner there. Then we had a little— they called it a little juke joint, right back—Duncan Brothers now. But it was a very popular street. That was the main street everybody would come over from cross town from Porter’s side to this area cause everything was on Fifth Avenue	Yes, it was lit up, and the soldiers used to come—that’s where I met

my husband. On the weekends, they would come over and just walk from one end of Fifth Avenue to the other cause it was either a bar or restaurant on each





side. They had somewhere to go. But I’ve—It was a grand time back in those days. [Laughter]

	F:	Every time I heard about it, it sounds amazing.



	G:	Uh- huh. Yeah. It was. Yeah, and we had a lady who had a restaurant, and she did chitlins’. And that lady stayed busy cause she had the best chitlins in town. It’s just amazing to walk down Fifth Avenue now and what it used to be, ya know? Yes, it is and Pleasant Street. Pleasant Street, during my mother’s time back in the eighteens, nineteens, there was a school right now where the police department is up there. They got some kind of office there now. It used to be the Recreational—the Rosa B Recreation Center there. And we had a dentist on that street, well dentists—on that end and there was a dentist on this end from my church there. So, we actually had three Black dentists, and I know of three Black doctors, postmans, Black postmans—Mr. Welch, Mr. Tom Hayes, Mr. Merrill—all these was Black postmans during those days. So we had, you know, a lot of Blacks moving around and getting around in the area. And everybody knew everybody. [Laughter]

	F:	Was there ever like a sense of competition between the beauty shops or the barber shops? Or was there enough business to go around?

	G:	It was enough. It was enough to go around. I will say that. Yes, it’s not like it is now cause I was on this corner; one was on the corner down there; one was right on this corner. One was on Fifth Avenue, one, two, three was on Fifth Avenue, I know. But we stayed busy. Stayed busy.

	F:	That’s nice.





	G:	Yeah



	F:	We were talking earlier about the connection that UF has with the community. Could you go in a little bit about your personal experience? Do you feel like the school is connected with its surrounding community, especially with its surrounding, historic Black community?

	G:	I don’t think they come in as much as they should into the Black community. And I don’t know what’s happening, but they don’t fraternize, to me, like they should. I don’t know whether it’s because a lot of stuff is out on campus or…it’s more convenient for them to go to the mall now. But during that time, we didn’t have a lot of Black students, out there. So, the University of Florida just began to bloom with Blacks, but I still say that they need to come into the area more than they do because I know they read the paper and see what’s going on in the community. [Laughter]

	F:	Back in the [19]70s and [19]80s, even though there were very few Black students, do you think that they were able to find a place of comfort? You know, on this side of town? Or…?

	G:	Well, maybe the type that they would like, they probably didn’t. They didn’t have really a lot of stuff that young people would like to go to.

	F:	[Laughter]



	G:	You know. That’s another thing. Gainesville need to put more things here for younger people, you know? It’s not enough. Not at all, so I feel like that’s why they didn’t come back in that time over here—because it wasn’t anything for them to come like theater. We still would need a theater; when I was coming up,





they had theaters all on there—had two! But—Ice cream parlors or places to sit down and entertain, we don’t have it over here. It’s all on campus around, you know, so that’s where they go. So we can’t be faulted about that, the Black community. We just need to get behind somebody and get ‘em to build something so that they can come over in our area. Yeah.

	F:	Now I wanted—I wanted to just—I know it’s kinda going backwards because we’re going to—I keep hopping back and forth between the present and the past, but can you just give me your first memory of your hair or how you remembered you hair, how you first—Cause I know you mentioned to Buchanan that you started doing you because your sister at first was doing it, and you didn’t like the styles that she was doing. So could you just tell me your first memory of doing your own hair? And what styles you tested? Tried out?

	G:	Yes ma’am! I can tell you just as good as 1-2-3! [Laughter] That’s used to be our front porch right out there, closer then. And, A. Quinn Jones, right down here, that’s where I went to school, Lincoln High, at that time. It’s A. Quinn now. But I had long thick hair, and my mother worked. So, she would do our hair at night and put a stocking cap on it so it wouldn’t be fuzzy the next morning cause we didn’t have good hair. [Laughter] So, that night, she was tired; she didn’t comb my hair. And I got up looking like a wooly-wooly. And my sister, she could do, but she so busy getting ready getting outta here going to school too, so I stayed home that day. The lady in the back, she came by, she say, “What are you sitting out there on that porch like that crying?” I say, “Cause nobody wouldn’t do my hair!” And she said, “Well if that’s keeping you from going to school, I’ll come and





comb your hair and plait it.” So she did! But she parted my hair down the middle, and she put two big braids on each side and two big braids in the back. [Laughter] I remember it just as good—I think that’s what made me wanna do hair. And I cried more cause I looked in the mirror I say, “Mama I aint going to school with my hair looking like this”—my grandmother, my mother had gone to work. My grandmother practically raised us. So I stayed home that day, ‘til when my mother came from work. And my grandmother told her what had happened, so I got a whipping for that. She said, “But I will not miss combing your hair again, okay.” So then I went, we had a branch back then, you know the grass grows, and I pulled it up by the root as big bunches. And I learned how to braid hair on the bushes.

	F:	Wow.



	G:	And that taught me to start doing my own hair. I started from plaiting grass. I said “Well, I got it now.” [Laughter] I got it now! So they don’t have to worry about combing my hair no more. [Laughter] So, I think that’s really to what got me in the mood of doing hair. I even had, in the seventh and eighth grade, my teachers—I had two teachers didn’t believe that I would do my hair and they say, “Well we coming to let you do ours.” And I did.

	F:	Wow.



	G:	They couldn’t believe it. But I said—Like I said, I give the credit to God cause it was my gift, and everybody have a talent and a gift. And that was my gift, doing hair, yeah.





	F:	That’s nice. You also mention to Buchanan how you used to change ‘bout three or four times—

	G:	Oh yes!



	F:	Before [Laughter]. Could you just tell me—who were a couple of the idols that you kind of looked up to for like—

	G:	Nobody! Really! It was a matter that I’d take something out I was gonna wear, and being, living a block from the school, I thought I had plenty of time to get ready and get on time. And I’d put that outfit on and look at myself and—that don’t look right. And I’d go get another one. I had at least about four or five, but I never—I think every day I had a new hairstyle. I fixed my hair different.

	F:	So you were very fashion forward, trendsetter?



	G:	Yeah. I just wasn’t, didn’t take—I’d say pick nobody that I wanted to really be like, you know. I think it was just, this was me. [Laughter] I wanted to be like this, and up until today, I think I’m still fashionable. [Laughter]

	F:	You look very fashionable to me. [Laughter]



	G:	I’m still a little fashion. You know, I like to put stuff together and put it, you know, how it’s supposed to be. And it’s a funny thing, even doing hair, my customers would always say, “Well, if something happens to me, I want you to make sure you come and help my family pick out what I’m gonna wear and do my hair!” And I’ve had to do it now.

	F:	[Laughter] Wow.



	G:	Mhmm. I sure have, yeah. But I’ve just always been like that, yeah. My sister was a little different. She was—she was fashionable but not as fashionable as I was.





[Laughter] She would buy a blouse, a skirt and a jacket, and that’s fine for her. But I had to have it all together. [Laughter] Had to have it all together, yeah. But anyway, I enjoyed it.

	F:	Can you tell me—I know you mentioned a couple of the trophies that you got from going to different hair shows. Could you mention a couple? Well, first could you mention like your first hair show experience?

	G:	Okay.



	F:	Cause I’ve only seen them. They look so entertaining.



	G:	Okay. I went to Jacksonville, which—we had a association called Orange Blossom Cosmetology. So that was made up of the state of Florida beauticians in Florida. And each city had a group of beauticians, which my unit was like unit 27,

26. And there’d be a group of beauticians, and we would meet on Mondays. And when it’s time for state convention, wherever it would be, we would go. And my first taking a part in the competition was in Jacksonville. And I did Sandra Kindle’s hair; she was a beautician. She was in the club too. And I did her hair, and I came home with two trophies.

	F:	Wow. What style did you do?



	G:	I did her—she had auburn hair. And it was—wasn’t a fantastic, drastic style, but I curl rolled it all over, and I combed it all out, combed it all back and just started pushing, pushing and shaping it the way I wanted it to look. And I wish I had some of those pictures; I got ‘em somewhere, but I don’t know where they are right now. But that was my first trophy in Jacksonville, Florida. And after that, I took—every time they would have a show—I would take a part and usually come





back home with a trophy. You can see them out there. And there are a lot of plaques I’ve gotten too ‘cause in some of our meetings, I taught wig class, learned the beauticians how to do wigs. I used to like to do those too. So I got a plaque into that. And, like I said, hair was just my thing! But I never was bashful or not to say I’m not gonna take a part in this fashion show tonight and do a head. I’d go grab me somebody, “Girl you want your hair did? You wanna be in the show tonight?” [Laughter] And they would come on in. We had workshops; You’d do the hair, and then that night was the grand finale. Yes, and we would be judged by judges. They had judges, so I enjoyed that too. I remember in Atlanta, Red Foxx was there that night I won a trophy. He was on one of the shows then. We had drivers from all around New York, New Jersey, Atlanta, Orlando, Jacksonville, Ocala. People be from everywhere. It would be a big convention.

	Bronner Brothers, I don’t know whether you’ve ever heard of them or not— F:	Yes! [Laughter]

	G:	They would put the show on in Atlanta. And one year they brought it down to Orlando, but I never would miss a show! I would be to all of ‘em.

	F:	How long had you been going? Do you still attend? G:	I sure do!

	F:	Oh, wow! [Laughter]



	G:	[Laughter] I sure do, getting ready for one next month over in Jacksonville.



Dudley, they have a show there, least once a year, yeah. So I like to keep up and know the new products right on, you know. Like I say, I still do my own hair. And just to meet some of the older beauticians, you know, we been around for a long





time together. It’s a joy. And then, I don’t try taking a part—they don’t have competitions at these. They be demonstrating the products they working with. So they have they own models and they own techs that they bring in with them. So we sit and watch how they do it and what to do and what not to do, yeah.

	F:	So how have the shows changed throughout time? G:	Still going on—

	F:	Still going on.



	G:	Not as strong as they used to be, yeah. ‘Cause right now—



	F:	It seems before, it used to be this kind of congregation where you could meet beauticians from all over the state—

	G:	All over, that’s right!



	F:	Or all over the country.



	G:	State of Florida, Georgia, all the way from—Chicago. Yeah, New Jersey, yes, mhmm. So, like I say, it’s not as powerful as it used to be ‘cause we got so many young beauticians now that they don’t really care about it. [Laughter] Going, you know? Seeing things, you know. They tell me you can go online now and find a lot of stuff.

	F:	You can, like YouTube. YouTube you’re able to look for anything—I remember. G:	Yeah!

	F:	When I was looking up different styles and everything, I could just with the click of a button find as style, have someone show me how to do it—

	G:	Yeah!





	F:	And even thought I’d see it, I still can’t do, which is why I’ll still go to a beautician to have it done properly. But I might try one or two times. [Laughter]

	G:	Yeah, Mhmm. Right, get you a mannequin like that. Get you a wig and practice on it. Do it that way.

	F:	That’s true.



	G:	Mhmm. You’d be surprised. I say, “Well do Jesus, this is too much—look at modern technician for me.” Yeah. It’s best to, I say, see hands on hands. It helps you a lot. It gives you the chance to ask questions, and you get a lot of, you know, how to get in customers and how to approach ‘em and—it’s a lot, its education when you can go and sit in a class than being online. Mhmm.

	F:	What do you think is one of the main differences between younger beauticians these days versus older ones?

	G:	What’s the difference?



	F:	Yeah. Or do you see any differences?



	G:	Well the only difference I can see is that they’re more, like I said, into high fashion.

	F:	I remember, I saw one, I’m not sure what the name of it was, it was one beauty show, and the hair—it was completely extravagant. There was no way you could see someone walking down the street with that. But, I know my cousin, she whenever she wears different weave, she’ll either have like half her head shaved and then have something on the side with like some highlight that’s blue or purple.





	G:	Oh yeah. I can’t stand that! [Laughter] Mm-mm. And everybody trying to put a little pink in their hair. I mean, you know, hey be real! Like I said, if it’s a show, a contest or something, and you can go out like that. But not no every day. That’s not a everyday wear to me. So I think the beauticians, the older ones now, they’re just not for all that like the young, I call them daredevils [Laughter] wearing all this stuff! Oh boy! Yeah, and some of the colors, it’s just not right for us. Some of them the darkest one, you see with the loudest colors! I say no, I don’t think so. I don’t think so.

	F:	Why do you think they do? You think it’s just what’s in style? G:	It’s a fad! That’s all it is!

	F:	It’s the trend of the time.



	G:	It’s a fad. They see it in these magazines, like I used to tell ‘em and they’d come in here “I want my hair just like that.” I’d say is that your face in that book? [Laughter] That is not your face, and that is not your texture of hair, okay! So let’s not go there now. Let’s do what we have to work with here. But, yeah, that’s just a fad, fashion. I seen a little girl that was going to the doctor today. Her hair was so long, and she just steady doing this, Black girl. I said “Oh Lord, have mercy!” But like I said, they don’t know any better. They see the fashions and look in the books, and they feel like they can wear that. But they not thinking about the health of their hair. And like I said, bonding hair in, if you don’t know what you are doing –it’s nice to put it in, but you need how to take it out cause you’ll end up snatching it out, not putting oil on it, just let it sit overnight and take it out and let it





slide on out. And they losing hair. But you can’ tell ‘em nothing, til it’s too late and then they “Can you get my hair to grow back?” Yeah shave it all off darling.

	F:	Start anew.



	G:	And they start all over again. Start all over again. Yes, goodness.



	F:	Well I know, I ‘m just thinking from personal experience because my mother, with our hair, she had natural hair, then she did locs. Then she cut it, and she had a short fro then she relaxed it. Now she actually has a fro again because she is going natural. What hairstyles did you, or what phases or trends did you, go through? Have you always just been—

	G:	I went through the afro, a little bit, not too long, not too long. But I like a short haircut. I went with that mostly. But other than that, no.

	F:	I know there’s a lot of talk with like the new documentary that Chris Rock did. I think it was like a year or two ago called “Good Hair.”

	G:	Mhmm. I saw that.



	F:	Can you just give me a couple of your thoughts on it as a beautician? I just wanted to hear your opinion.

	G:	I’m trying to think what Chris Rock was talking about the chemicals?



	F:	Cause he was talking about the chemicals. He was saying where the actual weaves were coming from…And then he also gave various explanations as to why women might relax their hair, which…

	G:	Wanna look like, I believe, the Caucasians, a lot of it. But like I said, I don’t have anything against the relaxers, not a thing. But I do believe in if you’re going to have it, then have a healthy head of hair and not try to go too extreme, you know,





relaxing that hair where its gonna break, break, break, break. And probably that’s what Chris was trying to talk about. Some of these chemicals is just not right for our hair. And if you don’t know what you’re doing, you know you gone get messed up! And I’m just trying to think some of the stuff he was talking about the Black hair. I did look at the video. I just remember some of the stuff he was saying about it. But I, to me, I don’t think he should have exposed the beauticians like he did. I mean you know, hey, his thing is his thing, and his comedian part is his, but don’t go down on the hairdressers, the beauticians, you know. Cause either way Black go, they look good to me! Even the braids, the natural, and if it’s did right, it’s beautiful.

	F:	And if you take care of it! Cause I ‘ve seen a lot of girls who have natural hair who do not take care of their hair—

	G:	That’s what I’m saying! F:	Who don’t oil their hair—

	G:	Dancing with the Stars, I don’t know if you look at it, but last night, this guy, I wanted to go on the stage myself and get him and give him a haircut. His hair was so bad and up there dancing with the stars! Oohh! That was a terrible looking head of hair. And he was all natural. All natural. See if you are going to wear it, do it right.

	F:	But I think what you said about Chris Rock, because he isn’t, he isn’t a beautician. He isn’t in that. He isn’t in that field.

	G:	No, he’s not.



	F:	So then—





	G:	He don’t know what’s going on. He don’t know a thing about it, no more than what his little girl or whoever come home and say happened to their hair. [Laughter]

	F:	So you retired in [20]08, so what have you been doing since? Or how has it been?

	G:	Well, it gets boring cause I miss my clients. But part time stuff, I try to do little trips, short trips and go to church and if I’m invited to a bag pitter party or something, I try to go. But other than that, mostly I didn’t know I was as tired as I was [Laughter] until I retired. So now, I kinda just do what I want to do and get up when I get ready and just relax. I don’t try to get too bored. But it’s been a pleasure of being retired. I’ve gone to Savannah on a three-day trip with a church and went down to Hollywood to the casino down there for two days. Its been joy, relaxed, still meeting people and my friends, being with them. So try not to get, died out too quick. [Laughter] Yeah, but other than that, I like to go visit the nursing homes and sit, and I work with an AIDS class at my church. We do free AIDS testing. That’s on a Wednesday. We go up there. So I try to stay busy.

	F:	Do you want to add anything before we end?



	G:	Well, it has just been a joy to talk with a student. And I ‘m sorry I didn’t get a chance to give her service before she got into natural hair, and I retired, to show her what a nice shop she could be coming to and enjoying it studying her lessons. And I just wished her the best of luck in her graduation this year. And that she will do well. Cause if you have it, you can achieve it.





	F:	Thank you so much! Thank you so much for being here and taking time out of your day to sit here and speak me.

	G:	Yeah, okay! I just hope you get a good grade [Laughter] on it, yeah. And I’m quite sure you will.

	F:	Thank you!



	G:	So you’ll be going back to Miami?



	F:	My mother, she actually, she moved because I was born in Atlanta, and then she moved to Maryland; then we moved to New Mexico, yeah, [Laughter]. Then she decided “Okay, I’m done moving. I wanna go back to school now.” So then she went back to school in Miami. And she went to Florida International University down there. So, she went all the way through and got her PhD in Psychology.

	G:	Bless her heart!



	F:	So now, she lives in Michigan, which was extreme difference from hot to cold. So she teaches at the university up there now, so that is where I’ll be going after graduation.

	G:	Okay, okay!



	F:	It’ll be interesting because it’ll be so cold! G:	Oh it’s gonna be cold!

	F:	It’ll be so cold.



	G:	You’ll have to put on two or three layers— F:	Yes! [Laughter]

	G:	Till you get used to it.



	F:	Yes. So, it’ll—I’m excited for the change! I’m excited for the change





	G:	I know! I know. I know.



	F:	It’ll be interesting because you’ve been here at this house for, it seems, like forever. And have never had a place I can call home like this.

	G:	Well she just liked to travel. F:	Yeah.

	G:	Okay. I was going to mention was your father or somebody in the military.



	F:	We moved around, it seemed as if [Laughter]… No, it was all her. [Laughter]



	G:	Okay, all right. Seems like she made some good decisions. She got a daughter here fixing to graduate! Do you have any sisters and brothers?

	F:	I have five, five other half brothers and sisters who are actually staying in Atlanta with their mothers.

	G:	Okay. Bless your heart. Great! Yes, my daughter, she’s back at home now, the one who went to the military. And she loves Atlanta. Well it’s nice, like I said, I stayed there for two years in Macon, Georgia, that’s where Homebound was at the time cause my husband was from there. But other than that, it’s a little fast now. A little too fast for me. I said “Loretta, I’d have to come up there and learn the way from your Peach Street back to your house.” [Laughter] And getting in that traffic out there? I don’t think so! Naw, no, no, no, no. I guess once they get used to it, it’s nothing to it. Well, I‘m going to give you one of my cards—

	F:	Yes, please!



	G:	So when you get where you going and doing what you doing, let me hear from you!

[End of interview]











	Transcribed by:	Randi Gill-Sadler, May 21, 2015 Audit-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, January 11, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 20, 2019