AAHP 222; Washington; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu





AAHP 222 George Washington African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview Conducted by Natalia Pacula on November 28, 2011 24 minutes | 8 pages



Abstract: In this interview, former PE teacher George Washington gives an overview of his childhood in a segregated northern Florida, his experiences in the military during Vietnam and his years at FAMU. He refers to his work on tobacco farms where he picked and rolled tobacco with his family before and during his time at school. He appreciates his education and credits both his parents and the teachers for allowing him to pursue a higher education at FAMU. He later lived through desegregation when his three younger sisters were able to attend an integrated high school and went to FSU. He notes that the shared community aspects he felt both in his hometown and at FAMU made him feel included and protected. After being drafted into the Vietnam War, he talks about the brotherhood that he felt amongst the soldiers. His religious values and patience were key aspects that he felt helped him live through segregation and that the Black community was constantly helping each other achieve the most with the best education available. He shares a lot of pride that he has for FAMU with the interviewer and really focuses on small communities and how taking the time to get to know someone personally defines his teaching style as well. The legacy he left and the impact he made on the childhoods of others is what brought him joy. It’s something he brought from his own personal experience growing up into the lives of those around him.



Keywords: [African American History; North Florida; Vietnam War; Tobacco Farming; Segregated Schools; Alachua County, Florida; Newberry High School; Florida A&M University]





































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 222

Interviewee: George Washington Interviewer: Natalia Paguaga Date: November 28, 2011



	P:	Alright. Umm, so if you would like to introduce yourself.



	W:	Okay, I’m George Washington. I’ve lived here in Gainesville for forty some odd years. I was born and raised in Madison County, Florida. It’s up in North Florida. I was born June 25th, 1945. I am sixty-six years of age.

	P:	What was it like growing up in Madison County?



	W:	Madison County, I came from a segregated school system. I was, like I said I was born in 1945 and at six years of age I start working on the tobacco farm. We had to work tobacco farm and sorta just move up. I loved tobacco. I picked up tobacco and then as you get older you get more experience in tobacco, tobacco field. There’s shade tobacco and then you move on up to sun tobacco where there was a different type of tobacco. But I thank God my father—it’s ten of us in the family—my father was able to make sure that we had an education. We went to a segregated school, it was Madison County Training school. I started school when I was six years of age. I finished high school in 1963. I attended Junior College, Suwanee River Junior College, at the time but now it’s North Florida Community College in Madison, Florida. In 1963 I completed two years; [19]65 I went to Florida A&M University; [19]66 unfortunately I was in my senior year and I end up going to the military. I was drafted in the military; I spent my basic training at Fort Benning, Georgia in 1968 January and February. The end of January I had a tour of Vietnam. In Vietnam in [19]69, January I got out December [19]69. I completed my education at Florida A&M University. I did my student teacher here in Alachua County in Hawthorne in [19]71. Then I start





teaching at Little Wood Elementary School here in Gainesville in 1971. I taught 17 years of P.E., Elementary P.E. at Little Wood Elementary School. I taught—I was a dean of students at Lincoln Middle School in here in Alachua County three years. Then I went to Newberry High school as Driver’s Ed instructor there for 10 years at, Newberry High School. I retired in 2000, and I said well I’m retired then I’ll just sit around for a while but that didn’t work. They called me to the Job Corp and I taught Driver’s Ed at the Job Corp here in Gainesville for 2 years, and I continued to teach at the driver’s traffic safety center in Gainesville for 10 years. I retired July the 14th this year [2011]. And after forty years of teaching, I did not renew my teaching certificate. So that mean I wasn’t gonna be teaching.

	P:	You weren’t going to go back. W:	No, I wasn’t going back.

	P:	How was it like teaching Driver’s Ed?



	W:	Driver’s Ed is very exciting and a good experience. Especially if you want to teach the kids the right way; and I was one of those none nonsense instructors. I didn’t take nothing off from nobody, parents or students. But I was a good teacher, they all tell me that. Matter of fact if you, the young lady back there, Jessica, she was one of my students at Little Wood.

	P:	Ohh, okay! [Laughter]



W:  And that you know that Mr. Washington would give you his rules, you’d listen and follow direction and everything, assume responsibility. Marna [Weston] would tell you the same thing, I was a no nonsense teacher. Either you’d do what I told you to do we’d get along fine, if you did not do I would always tell them I would do it. I





would always tell them that I was in Vietnam you don’t want me to have a flashback, and that’d get them a little bit. [Laughter]

	P:	Then they’d stop [Laughing].



	W:	Yes they stopped, but they respected me no matter what I did. Whether it was elementary P.E. or whether as the dean of students. I love to hear my students come back and say, “you were a good dean, Mr.Washington”; “you were a fair dean.” I walk a lot down 39th avenue I walk during the day. My kids blow at me, they wave at me. They stop and talk, I say “you’re gonna hold up traffic.” They say, “Mr.Washington, hey that’s you.” I have enjoyed best in my life experiences every day. So I enjoyed being a teacher for 40 years.

	P:	You really enjoyed teaching, yes?



	W:	I enjoyed it, it was, it was a living legend. I was always patient with the students, and their parents, everybody anybody you would be I taught with. You go to Little Wood Elementary School you know Mr. Washington, Dean Washington or Coach Washington; they would tell you, you know Mr. Washington.

	P:	That’s good. What was it like working in the tobacco fields? My family owns a tobacco company so I kind of know a little bit about tobacco and growing.

	W:	Oh, okay. Into tobacco, actually in shade tobacco they’d call what they call priming it very delicate very dark tobacco. They make the cigar out of that type of tobacco. The cigars are made out of that tobacco. Now, the sun tobacco they make cigarettes out of it, cigarettes, you know you just put it on a carrier, a bar, and take it to the barn and you’d string it and hang it up until it dries, and then they’d sell it—





	P:	Yes.



	W:	Okay to different companies. You would have a big tobacco shed where the companies come and bid for the tobacco, the sun tobacco.

	P:	Where you involved in just the picking of tobacco or rolling it as well?



	W:	Picking, I didn’t roll too much strain. I did most of the picking and then I would hang it off the bars for it to dry. They used to use coals but then they went to gas to cure the tobacco with. So that’s what it was all about.

	P:	Did you work long hours? Was it a bit tedious?



	W:	We would work, we would get out of school at three, and we would work till six or seven o’clock—whenever the sun is out during that time. Basically it was May, June, and July, and August—we would work part of August. Again when school was out you’d work six and a half to seven or eight hours a day.

	P:	And would you work, did you work with a lot of friends in the tobacco field?



	W:	Yes I worked with a lot of friends, and relatives; cause it was a small community.



Yeah this is very a small population with about 15,000 people. So everybody knew each other. Everybody raised each other, that’s the way it was.

	P:	It was a very close knit community. W:	Uh-huh, yes.

	P:	What was it like going to a segregated school?



	W:	In a segregated school, well you had different everything. The books were different. We had second handed materials. That’s what you got everything was second handed. We were fortunate enough to be able to obtain—what the goal of the teacher’s wanted us to obtain—we really did well. Cause, when I look at





Madison County there are a lot of teachers, there are a lot of professional football players that come out of Madison County. We have really produced. Now it’s 10 of us in the family and the first 6 of us went to the all-Black school. After 1968 when integration started 3 or 4 of my sisters went to an integrated school, Madison High School.

	P:	Was there a difference when they went to schools? Did they tell you about it? W:	No we didn’t talk about this because I was much older than them. I was gone. When my baby sister graduated high school I had gone to Vietnam and back,

and finished college and everything. I was teaching when she had just finished. The four of us finished college at Florida A&M University. My brother and I and two sisters finished at FAMU. The other finished at FSU.

	P:	Was it hard to get an education? Did other people make it hard for you?



	W:	No it was not hard getting an education because that was your goal. Everybody would work with you in the community. All the teachers were real good teachers. They taught you; they were teachers. They either went to school at Florida A&M University or Bethune Cook College. They were teachers that taught you and there were no excuses. You would get a pallet in the hand if you didn’t do what you were told. Then you’d get a pallet at home if they had anything to say about you. Like I say everybody knew everybody so that’s what happened. It was good living, good living. And we all got a good education, as you can see after 40 years of teaching.

	P:	Do you think patience is key, it’s kind of what helped you? W:	Patient?





	P:	Patience.



	W:	Yes patience that’s all you need. Patience to teach, patience and be willing to understand the boys and girls. Patience has always been a part of my life.

Everybody tell me you’re very patient because you teach kids and you did this and that. Patience has always been in my heart; so that has helped being patient. You just don’t let nothing get you down when you’re patient. Just keep praising the lord and doing that.

	P:	Was religion a big part of your background?



	W:	Oh yes religion always. My dad there was no question, we would go to Sunday School and church no matter what. We was going to do those things. Then the pastor would tell us, wherever you go whatever you do find church. So I found a church here when I got here in [19]71 and I married in [19]72. I was Baptist but now I’m a United Methodist person, Christian now. Church is my pleasure; the United Methodist Church on 2dn Street and 7th Avenue. I’ve been there for 40 some odd years. That’s what my parents taught us, that you always go to church. Not only did it pay off for all of us, but it paid off for my Mom and Dad. My dad when he passed away in [19]98 he was 82 years old and he had worked really hard. And my mom passed away in 2009 and she was 89 years old. They lived good long lives [inaudible 11:48] and seventy years that was promised, they went over. That comes from good living and being patient.

	P:	Do you think that kind of helped you in interactions with other people during that time, especially in segregated communities? Do you think it was a quality that helped you?





	W:	Yes, it was a great quality because what you do when you’re in a small setting schools people notice you. They can tell what you want, and who’s going to be this and going to be that. They notice that. They can look at students—but I can’t—and they could tell the students that were going to be in the criminal justice system, and tell the students who are going to advance and do well. I know because they have an eye-level field from students. All the teachers knew that I was going to achieve my goals. That was the purpose everybody was there to help you. You knew once you finished high school you were going to the junior college. Once you finished your junior college you was either going onto Florida A&M University in Tallahassee or you was going to Bethune-Cookman. Most of us ended up in FAMU because it was a State supported school.

	P:	And what was it like serving in Vietnam with other White men? W:	You had no problems in the military.

	P:	No?



	W:	No. When we got into basic training everybody was the same. We didn’t see no color then. It was easy for me because basically I was a college man and so I knew what to do, and what they told me to do. I followed instructions. I listened and I followed instructions. And what they told me to do that’s what I did. No more, no less. When I was in Vietnam I was a cook, you know when you were riding you’d see people getting killed over there. I didn’t have any fear, it brought me back, it brought a lot of us back. I enjoyed my military. I was a spec 5 which is equivalent to a sergeant. In the 22 months I was in the military I was made





sergeant. For Vietnam the pay rate was good. Unfortunately I became diabetic. I’m a diabetic now and I still get benefits from that.

	P:	So the military was kind of like a brotherhood? W:	Yes.

	P:	Would you say that?



	W:	Yes, it was different. Everybody had to look out for each other. You know you in the bunker over there I’m over here, I’m in the kitchen, but we had each other’s backs.

	P:	And what was your perspective on UF? What did you think about UF when you were growing up here? Was UF kind of like this segregated school or was it—

	W:	I didn’t know much about UF except for watching it on TV for football. Only school I could talk about was FAMU. I knew a little bit about FSU but that was it, because we were close to Tallahassee. I got to know more about Florida when I moved down here.

	P:	Are you a gator fan or a Seminole?



	W:	I will always be a Florida A&M University rattle. I support the gators but I will always be—that’s my alma mater, that’s my school; I will always be a rattle.

	P:	I heard they have an amazing marching band.



	W:	Yes the band is super. Since I retired I go to—they have a big classic like the Georgia-Florida game, they have it in Atlanta, Georgia. There’s 50 to 60,000 people in there so that’s full. But Cookman-Florida A&M game in Atlanta, that’s 56,000 people that’s support. So two predominant Black schools, the turnout is





good, and it’s good that people support. But no I will always be a rattle. Just like you will always be a gator?

	P:	Yes.



	W:	You will always be a gator, I will always be a rattle snake no matter what. And I got my master’s degree from Nova University.

	P:	So you’ve been to Miami?



	W:	No. We had what you call Saturday classes; we got it here. They don’t offer it anymore, but I got out there so it was really good.

	P:	That’s awesome. As a physical education teacher what’s kind of like your perspective now on physical education in schools?

	W:	My perspective is this way, physical education is not what the Florida [inaudible17:20]. I taught physical education the whole body mind and soul. People used to tell me, “Coach why you out there running and jumping and exercising.” And I’d say that’s what they taught me in school so that’s what I do.

[GW gets phone call from his sister during the interview] Sorry that was my older sister.

	P:	Are you the middle child?



	W:	I am the fourth oldest. My oldest brother, he died in [19]98 before my dad and I have my sisters who are older than me than I’m next. I’m the fourth oldest child.

	P:	Did you have a lot of sisters?



	W:	I have 7 sisters living and I had 2 bothers. P:	What was it like growing up?

	W:	Fun big family, there’s nothing like a big family.





	P:	I agree.



	W:	You get to knock each other out, and you get to love each other. And you know family is family.

	P:	I know, how were holidays?



	W:	Holidays were great, all holidays were great. Christmas, Thanksgiving. We always had plenty of food because we growed a lot of food. My dad growed a lot of food, vegetables and stuff. We had animals: cows and hogs. Everybody shared, shared the chickens and everything. We grew up farming, we didn’t have any problems with food.

	P:	Because you grew it? W:	Yeah.

	P:	And what were some of the things that you always grew? Did your father teach you how to grow food as well?

	W:	How to grow?



	P:	Yes, how to grow certain vegetables.



	W:	Yes we worked the gardens, we fed the hogs and kept the chickens and find their eggs. He taught us everything. Everything he knew he taught us. He wasn’t a very educated man, he went to second grade. My mom finished high school. He could not even count money, he had what they call common sense, what I have. Something that takes you a step farther is common sense.

	P:	Yes, it’s not too common now-a-days.



	W:	I tell my grandson, “You smart but you don’t have any common sense.” He’s not a leader, I’ve always been a leader.





	P:	Do you think that was important back then to be a leader?



	W:	Yes very, very important. Like I said people can see what you want to be in life. They knew I was gonna make it, most likely to succeed I was voted that in the class. And I have, I have succeeded. And when I go home everybody tell me, my sister always tell me, “you remember everything.” We always have school reunions from our all-Black school that goes back to nineteen twenty-something up to 1968 when integration started. And they always say, “who is such” and I could tell them that person’s name and family. They would say, “You have a mind like your daddy, you can remember all those names.” Like my students, I remember all their names.

	P:	From a young age, did you know that what you wanted was to work with people?



That you wanted to be a teacher?



	W:	I didn’t have that at the time, but like I said a small community everybody was going into education. Most of my classmates, we went up to Florida A&M after Junior College. Physical education majors or they became nurses. Nurse or educator, that’s what you was going to be. And now what, now we have some who are doctors, lawyers, everything.

	P:	Do you regret anything?



	W:	No, I regret nothing. I was able to be blessed to live 68 years; to see grand kids; to see my kids grow up; and to know people, everybody in Gainesville basically. As I said I taught forty years, it seems like I taught 40,000 students. It seemed like it, and I have over the years. My job as a physical education teacher is to work with all those kids from kindergarten to fifth grade. And the middle school





from sixth grade to eighth grade. So, I reached a whole lot of students at the majority of the schools. High school the same thing, even though I was the Driver’s Ed, I saw most of the students one way or another; in the classroom or in the driver safety center.

	P:	So you were part of many people’s childhood? W:	Yes.

	P:	That’s fantastic.



	W:	Like I say I came from FAMU, it taught me how to be a teacher. How to be a person, how to work with people. It gave me that. Like when I went up to the first game and they have [inaudible 22:33] so I was talking with professors and I raised my hand and I asked if he knew my son. He said, “who was your son?” And I said my son was Derek Washington. They said, “Well! We know Derek.” See the thing different he was telling was the truth. They know you by names at Florida A&M University. At Florida, they know you by numbers.

	P:	Yeah.



	W:	Okay, so that’s what I liked about it. They know Derek and they know me, a lot of the teachers—a lot are deceased now—but they know me as coach, I would see them at the game and they remember. They know me just like me I know students by their names.

	P:	And it’s not just a number you really get to know your students. W:	Yes, you really get to know them.

	P:	Is there any one experience that you think helped mold who you are today?





	W:	Yes, the experience that helped me the most was believing. Believing, having patience and having faith. Whatever you do, you got to be patient and have faith. And believe you got to believe. You have to keep working and showing others what you can do. I thank God for so many things, I truly regret nothing. It’s been good. I can say that it’s been well with my soul. [Laughter]

	P:	Well thank you very much for this interview, I really appreciate it.



	W:	Okay, and I have a book of one of my schoolmates he wrote, and if you want to look at it. It would give you some more things from the time we were in school up until in Miami when the hurricane came. I brought it if you want to look at it.

	P:	That would be fantastic.



	W:	If you want to look at it take it if you want. P:	Thank you very much.

	W:	All right, we going to bless the food now. [End of interview]





Transcribed by:



	Audit-edited by:	Juanita Duque, January 10th, 2018 Final edited by:	Ryan Morini, February 21, 2019