AAHP 814; Alvarez; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 814 Carlos Alvarez

Interviewed by Alana Gomez on December 27, 2020 43 minutes | 17 pages



Abstract: As another UF focused interview, Carlos Alvarez talked about his interactions with President O’Connell, including a dispute and heated letter from the president.

Alvarez was the youngest consensus All-American football player in two decades as a sophomore, and he saw the introduction of Black players to the team and the departure of Coach Ray Graves. Alvarez was also involved in Vietnam War protests and rallies, and he recalls the Black student walk out in 1970. According to him, the encounter with O’Connell that day was uncivil, and he threatened the students with punishment. He also talks about racist encounters he observed on campus.



Keywords: [University of Florida; Oral History; Student Activism; African American Studies; Civil Rights; Antiwar and the Vietnam War]



AAHP 814

Interviewee: Carlos Alvarez Interviewer: Alana Gomez Date: December 27, 2020



	G:	So just to start off, just so I have some more background, what years did you attend UF?

	A:	I attended UF 1968 through 1972.



	G:	And can you just tell me a little bit about what UF was like at that time?



	A:	The University of Florid was, and I still think it is, it certainly was the best university in the state back then from an academic stand point. And really, it’s such a university town and certainly by the mid [19]60s to the early [19]70s, so many universities across the nation were in such in turmoil because of racial issues, war issues, you know, generational issues. University towns, like Gainesville, were just a hot bed of idea, protests and it was ongoing. That’s really what Gainesville was like for those four years. When you look at a time period where we go to the moon, we have the death of Martin Luther King, the assassination of Martin Luther King, and Robert Kennedy, and Woodstock, and Nixon in office, which was one of the most troubling presidencies, certainly in the twentieth century. It was exciting in terms of being in college because if you were bored at University of Florida in the four years I was there, you were not going outside. There was always something going on, whether it was protests, a meeting some place, planning for something else. There was always something going on during the four years I was there.

	G:	Okay, and correct me if I’m wrong, but you are Cuban American, correct?



	A:	Right. I was born in Cuba, and I came to the United States in 1960, was born in Cuba 1950 and came to the United States 1960 with my family. I have two





brothers, who also were attending the University of Florida at the time with me. Both of them were older. One was two years and the other three years older than me, and they were finishing undergraduate because one of them got a Master’s degree and then they were going to law school there. Then I have a sister that’s five years younger than me, and she was still not in college. But yes, I’m Cuban American. And in fact, when I went to the University of Florida, I was still Cuban. I was not an American citizen. I became an American citizen after my sophomore year.

	G:	And can you tell me what it was like to attend UF, which was predominantly a white institution back then and now as a Cuban American and what the culture was like?

	A:	Yeah. It was for a White Cuban American like me, not very difficult because outside of the name, by that point and time, I had learned English, and I think I speak it with little or no accent. Really, by that time—because when we went to Miami, we moved to an American neighborhood because my dad wanted us to be become Americans. He didn’t want us to think of the idea of going back to Cuba because he said he would never go back. He had gone to law school with Fidel Castro, and not that they were friends or anything, but he knew where this was all headed. So we left Cuba in [19]60, which is a year and a half after Castro came. He knew where it was headed, and he thought Cuba will have years of turmoil. He made the choice that we would lose everything financially but we would have a fresh start. It was a race to become an American and learn the language and all of that. So by the time I got to the University of Florida, that’s





the way it was for me. So I didn’t see any of the discrimination, say towards me, but what I did see, which really surprised me, was discrimination against African Americans, which I didn’t even realize because I’m coming from Miami area, which is a much more urban area to an area which is more North Florida, southern area. I didn’t realize and never even checked that the football team, for example, when I came didn’t have a single African American player, not one. And it wasn’t until the year after I got recruited where the first two African American football players came, one from Georgia and one from Jacksonville, but I didn’t realize that. I had a roommate; I’ll just leave it at that because I don’t want to mention his name because I certainly don’t want to embarrass his family because that’s just the way things were back then. But I went to a town near Gainesville, I was invited by his family to go visit, and they were a professional family. And I went through their office, and they had a colored only bathroom and a colored only water fountain, and it just shocked me that you had these things. I hadn’t traveled enough around as a child to realize that a lot of The South had those kinds of things. But again, for me, given that unless somebody knew my name it was not a big deal about being Hispanic. Back then, really if you were Hispanic, there wasn’t, you know I think nowadays in some areas of the country, there is more of a prejudice about that because it’s threatening to some people. That’s usually what a prejudice is all about, it’s really you’re threatening and they’re afraid. And here, we were not threatening because there wasn’t enough of us to be threatening. We weren’t taking people’s jobs away or anything like that. We weren’t threatening financially or economically, and there had never been a





history of us being enslaved or being looked at different in any way than another White person, so we didn’t experience—I’d experience it here and there, but certainly not at the University of Florida did I experience any problems that, say African Americans, had to face.

G:  Mmhm. And could you tell me more about the problems African Americans had to face? Anything you experienced or just something you recognized; what was the general atmosphere like?

	A:	For the African Americans at the University of Florida, it was challenging. I think very challenging. And not that I recognized it back then, I recognized it somewhat, but since then, I have recognized it even anymore given talks that I’ve had with friends of mine, they’re African Americans. Don’t hold me to these numbers, and you could probably check, but in a population of about 20,000 students at the University of Florida, you had something like 150-200 African American students. That was just unacceptable. After Brown V. Board of Education in 1954, staying separate but equal is unconstitutional. And these institutions had to integrate, and so here we are fifteen years later, a decade and a half later, and you only have that many students at an over 20,000 college student population. So when you saw an African American student, they stood out because there just weren’t that many of them. From situations where I have learned, and actually are recorded in the student newspaper The Alligator, I remember reading about this where an African American student was walking down fraternity row, and one of the fraternities is very tied—and I forget their name—very tied to The South, a couple of African American students walking





down that road, and these white students came with a car and pulled out a gun and didn’t shoot it and just went “bang bang” with their voice. That kind of intimidation was happening. It doesn’t take more than one for a person at that age to be seriously intimidated and feel afraid because of something like that happening and something that could affect them for the rest of their lives. That situation happened. It wasn’t a friendly atmosphere. Now, a lot of white students that were there will tell you “Well, I never saw anything,” but you never saw anything because there weren’t that many African Americans for you to see and see how they were treated, but if you talk to, I think, most African American students at the university, they didn’t go through a four year, or however long they were there without something happened to them that showed racial injustice. I certainly have not talked to any one of them, and I talked to a number of them, that didn’t have some incident that happened during that time period that created a problem. Since you’re doing kind of a history of that era, you know about the African American student walk-out. I think it was in 1970 and that affected all of them, whether they walked out or not, it affected all of them because they had to make a choice. So for example, the African American football players had to make a choice, what were they going to do, and now they chose that they were not going to walk out, but that was a very difficult choice for them. They knew about the injustice, but they also knew that they were the—do you know who Jackie Robinson is? Jackie Robinson was the first African American baseball player. They were the Jackie Robinsons of University of Florida, and so, they were looked at with a higher standard, with a magnifying





glass, and they knew they had to be the very best. Walking out may be okay for them to let out their emotions, but they were there for a bigger purpose, and because of that they stayed, but they were affected by it. That was just the state of things during my stay there, at the University of Florida.

	G:	Yeah, I’ve been reading a lot about similar circumstances. And all this is happening under President O’Connell, so you could you tell me a little bit about him if you ever had contact with him, if you ever had any opinion about him, how he was handling all of this?

	A:	Yes. I met President O’Connell in-person in 1969. 1968 had not been a great year for University of Florida football, and so the fan support and the student support, because of the [1968] year but also just because of the general nature of the culture at the time. When we began this question and answer by you, I mentioned the culture of the late [19]60s, early [19]70s, you know, all the things that were happening. Morale was down, really, in terms of college sports.

President O’Connell was fairly popular in the sense of he was energetic. He had been a boxer, an amateur boxer, so he liked sports, and he had that kind of personality. He was a fighter, not only literally but figuratively. He had decided that he would walk to the middle of the field before every Florida game at Florida field to get the fan support. So he would walk into the middle of the field with the captains of the game and for the coin toss. And so, he became very popular with the team for doing that, and so that’s how I got to meet him. In [19]69, we had a great year. All of that was a wonderful thing, and so we all liked him, and all that. What happened with him and I is we went to a ball game, the Gator ball in





Jacksonville, and right before the game, like three days before the game, there were rumors that there was going to be a coaching change at Florida. The coaches at Florida were very popular with the team and had had a great run.

Obviously, in [19]69, we had had the best season ever for Florida football and very popular. We were playing Tennessee. And so these rumors circulated, and President O’Connell addressed the rumors in front of the team two days, I think it was two days, it could’ve been one day, but I think it was two days before we played before we played Tennessee in the Gator Bowl. And this is where there is a difference of opinion. What I heard, and I thought I heard clearly, is that there was not going to be a coaching change, and that these were just rumors, and if there was any coaching change, the team would be told before anybody else would be told. I took it as the absolute truth and trusted what was said. I remember it being said, and that was it. We played the game; we beat Tennessee. This was in late December, and then I go to my home in Miami between semesters. And then, on the radio, I hear there had been a coaching change on the radio. It just shocked me. The coaching change, strangely enough, we were changing coaches with the Tennessee coaches that we had just defeated, so the Tennessee coaches were now going to become the Florida coaches and that was it. We hadn’t been told. I heard it on the radio, and about a day or two later, I got a call from somebody from the University Athletic Department telling me that that was the case. They were calling all the football players. Well, I was very in sense to what happened because I really did consider the coaches my family. Football teams and sports, you get this family





talk, and some of it is not really true, but some of it is true. You get so close, and I was very close with my teammates and coaches. I felt betrayed. I felt that the coaches who had just had this incredible season, who had fought as hard as we had fought, that they were being thrown out, and I was not happy. And so, I got interviewed because I had just become consensus All-American, I had sort of a soap box, and I was interviewed by a reporter to get my feelings regarding this, and I told them I was not happy with what had been done and we had been lied to by President O’Connell about this. I was not happy, and I thought it was a terrible thing that had been done to our coaching staff that we all loved. Of course, that got publicized and made headlines. So O’Connell wasn’t happy with me, and it resulted in a letter that I got when I got back to the university in January that was delivered to my dorm. It was, I think, a three or four page letter in which he was not happy with me for what I had said. Not unexpectedly, but it did shock me, the nature of the letter. That the university president would say some of the things he said, and in particular, that he thought I was trying to just make a name for myself by doing the interview, which I could care less. Really, I had been a consensus All-American, and nobody had ever done that in two decades in anywhere, in any university as a sophomore, any university in the United States. I had broken all these Southeastern Conference records, catching records, and all of that. I had more publicity than I would ever want. I wasn’t looking for it, and in fact, I was looking for peace and quiet to be able to go out with my girlfriend and be happy and not be stopped everywhere. It was crazy, really. I certainly was not looking for publicity, but he claimed that I was and that





he had heard that I had marched and attended some of the antiwar protests and that I was trying to create a name for myself. I had been at peace rallies and marched and even talked at the Plaza at the Americas regarding that but mine was a minor talk compared to some of the others. But regardless, who was he to object me to the Vietnam War? And I wasn’t doing it for publicity. Heck, again, I didn’t need that. But it was coming from the university president, saying how basically he was disappointed in me. And so, that was it. We never talked again.

	G:	So you didn’t respond with another letter or meet with him at all?



	A:	Yeah, no I did not respond. I saved the letter. I didn’t think about, but I didn’t know you really had to respond. Again, remember I’m a sophomore. You know, I’m a 19-year-old kid. And by the way, I had just become an American citizen because right after that football season in [19]68 in Miami, I became an American citizen. And so, I didn’t really know how to respond and decided not to respond, and he didn’t convince me that he was right, and I certainly was not going to apologize, and he never apologized. I told you he was a fighter. I had an admiration for that part of him, but I felt he did not tell us the truth. Since then, I have become an attorney. [Laughter] Now I see what he probably did, although I’m not certain of this, but I can see what he probably did. He put his words very carefully probably in that discussion and never said that it wasn’t gonna happen, but he probably walked a very thin line. I can tell you all my teammates and I, we thought it was not going to happen and that we would be told ahead of time and all of us have a bit of a say regarding it. So maybe that’s what happened, but we really never discussed it after that, and I never really talked to him about it. That





was it. I never talked to him about it since the time I was at the University of Florida or afterwards. We just pretty much parted ways. That was it. He never walked on the football field again with the team, and he told me in the letter that he would not because if the team didn’t want it and stuff like that, and he was never invited back to walk with the team to the middle of the field. Now, I did run into him one more time. And that was actually during the—because I think you’ll probably find this relevant—that the one other time was during the Black student protest about the number of students in 1970, the number of students and the walk out and all of that, when they went into his office and all of that. And I have forgotten all of the facts on that, but what happened it was a meeting with kind of the leadership of the African American group that was heading all of that. And I don’t know who invited me, but somebody invited me to be at that meeting. And so, I went to that meeting, and I didn’t speak at that meeting or anything like that, but I sat in the meeting, and I saw the interaction between President O’Connell and a couple of other people in the administration with the African American students. It was not good. It was not good; it was very antagonistic. Nothing was, in any way, resolved or discussed in a fashion that would lead to a resolution. It was basically “do as I say or consequences will happen.” Obviously, I feel you can’t resolve problems that way when it’s that kind of an emotional setting, and I thought that it was handled—that he handled it the wrong way. That was my only other interaction.

	G:	Mmhm. Was there anything specific from that meeting you remember or just the general atmosphere like you said?





	A:	Just the way the general discussion went and basically, the general discussion going in the “You need to do what I’m telling you or consequences will happen. People will be dismissed from school and consequences will happen unless you do what the university is telling you to do. And that a walk out is just wrong; it’s the wrong way to handle this and certainly, trying to do a sit down at the administration building. You can’t do that. Period.” And remember, this comes at a time where a lot of university presidents had no idea how to handle this, they had no idea how to handle the Vietnam Protest. They had no idea how to handle the racial injustice issues that were going on because there was no, it never happened, so they didn’t know how to handle it. Many of them handled it in a fashion that, looking back, was wrong. Instead of trying to get really good people in the middle, like for example, there was a professor who was a Catholic priest, Father Michael Gannon, who you may or may have not run into in terms of researching your paper. He was a professor, but he was also the parish priest for the university. Now, I was a Catholic; I was, but I’m not anymore. I mean I was brought up Catholic, and I became friends with Father Gannon because he was sort of the spiritual advisor of the football team, and I really like him, and he was very involved with the students, and he was very involved with protests and stuff like that because he wanted to make sure everyone kept the peace, and the students had their say. He would’ve been a wonderful person to be the intermediator to this issue if he had been brought in. But he wasn’t. And really, it was the direct talks that, I think, were so harshly done that ultimately were really unsuccessful in trying to placate the students and the grievances that they had.





And remember, the stuff that was going on was a lot of marches and things like that. In fact, I can’t remember if there was any violence in Gainesville, but if there was it was minimal. It went all the way to Penn State where students were killed by shots from the National Guard. These things could escalate, and everybody was on edge during this time period, and it seemed to be coming all the time.

There was some other protest about it. I think it overwhelmed a lot of university presidents, and it may have overwhelmed President O’Connell.

G:  Mmhm. And in your experience there, do you remember any certain initiatives or do you even think yourself that O’Connell and the administration was putting in a large effort to help these students even before the protests?

	A:	I don’t. I don’t remember any initiatives. I mean, obviously, just the fact that we in [19]69, we had the first African American football players. They came in in 1969. The fact that that happened, that had to be probably cleared by President O’Connell because I doubt that the football program would have just done that. It wasn’t the first ones in the Southeast Conference, but it was certainly the first ones in Florida. I think Kentucky had the first ones a couple of years earlier, and so that was maybe a bit of an initiative. But I don’t know no great initiative in terms of this happening. And you gotta remember, my memory is a bit faulty on this, so make sure you check the facts on it, but in the 1950s, O’Connell was Supreme Court justice, and I think you probably know that about him. There was a decision that he was part of that decision, because all Supreme Court justices were all part of any decision that was made. It was a decision, and I forget the name of the case—





	G:	Virgil Hawkins?



	A:	Yeah. Hawkins, yeah. Where they basically kept them out of University of Florida Law School. And basically, I think the gist of it was that the University of Florida or a governmental body has a right a keep ‘em out, even though separate but equal is now the law of the land if they feel that there is going to be turmoil created by this integration of an institution. Well, on [inaudible 33:30] that’s ridiculous because if any time you try to enforce your constitutional rights, there is going to be violence, and then therefore, your constitutional rights are taken away from you because of the possibility of violence. You can imagine what that does to freedom of speech, freedom of association and all that. The Law can always come in and say “Hey, we think that there is going to be violence, and you can’t protest here.” But anyway, it was ridiculous. Mr. Hawkins kept a lawsuit for a long time under these crazy decisions, where ultimately, I think the courts said “Enough is enough,” and he was allowed at the University of Florida law school. But he was part of that decision. I don’t think he wrote it, although, whether he wrote it or not, he was on the side that supported the decision. As you know, those appellate decisions have dissents, and they have the judges that agree with the decision, and then they have dissents, and he didn’t dissent from that opinion. But I don’t know if he wrote it. I don’t think he wrote it, but he certainly was on the side that affirmed it. And so, that didn’t sit well with some of the African American students at the time. That was brought up a number of times in my discussions with African American students. The reason it was brought up is because whether correct or not, it tended to undermine President





O’Connell’s credibility. He had this decision. Well, just how much do you care for African Americans, if you can issue this decision? So that tended to undermine his credibility with them.

	G:	Yes. And do you remember anything after the protest, how his next couple of years were?

	A:	The next couple of years after [19]70? G:	Yes.

	A:	No, protests continued. It’s such a long time ago. It’s hard to separate the years. [Laughter] I’m sure you’ll find this out once you’re older. It’s hard to separate basically fifty years ago how the years went. I do remember the 1970 because that was a crucial year for many things. In fact, I kind of remember [19]69 and [19]70 from my football playing because I know what each season looks like. But as far as protests and things like that, they kind of merge together. Going forward after [19]70, it was kind of like the same kind of protests. You still had students that were protesting Vietnam and students that were protesting here and there racial injustice. Although it seemed to me like the Vietnam protests seemed to gain more attention than the issues of racial justice. I think during that time period, and again I’m not sure, there was a push to have Black history studies and things like that that I think were ultimately successful in terms of at least having the student African American community see that at least there was some progress being done to try to make things better.

	G:	Mmhm. Okay. I think those are all my questions. Thank you, that was very helpful.





	A:	Good. Okay. If you need something else, if you think of it, just give me a call. Bear with me because sometimes it does take a few [inaudible 38:36] to get a hold of. But just leave me your name and stuff, but I’ll get back to you, and, you know, wish you luck. Actually, I was thinking when you told me about your thesis. When I was at the University of Florida, I ended up in the honors program in political science, and you had to do a paper, and I did this paper that it was my theory that Dade County, South Florida, which was very liberal, progressive at the time would eventually become much more conservative, would have a really conservative push because of the Cuban community down there. So it was done through this—I found these questions that you could ask young students in high school about your thoughts about politics and all of that that showed a more authoritarian lean versus a more liberal, democratic lean, and I was able to get a bunch of professors, I mean a bunch of teachers at high schools to pass em out these questions that were just very generic questions. You didn’t think you were being asked anything about that. Low and behold, and each questionnaire had like fifty questions, so it took some time, but putting it in one of the only main frame computers that used to be in the center of campus with the cards when you put in all the data, and it took me about two or three times to do it correctly, and it clearly showed that the Hispanic students were much more conservative. Now, this was the first wave really of the Cuban Americans that left Cuba, and they were much more conservative than the other students, and so, therefore it was quite likely that going into the future, you would have a Hispanic community in South Florida be much more conservative and make that area conservative,





and it all turned out to be true. [Laughter] So I was kind of proud of that research, although I don’t think it ever made it anywhere. But I was glad to see that—I don’t know I was just thinking about it when you put this together. You never know what you’re doing now will have an impact in some fashion. So, good luck with it.

G:  Yes, thank you. That’s a good point, and I certainly hope so. I was going to ask actually, is there anywhere I could have access to the letter to read like with the university archives or I don’t know if you keep that to yourself, that’s also fine of course.

	A:	I actually have a copy of it. The problem is, I don’t have the copy with me, but I will try—recently, there was a documentary done about me by ESPN, and the producer/director has got that copy because I gave it to him, and I think it did actually make it into the documentary because I saw a page of it. The documentary has been out for about two months. It did make it there, and ill try to get it back from him. I didn’t give it to him, I mean he just borrowed it to do the documentary. The letter at the end says, O’Connell says “I’m not giving this to anyone.” And that’s it. But I did get a letter, and I don’t know if he said “I don’t care what you do or not,” but it sounded like I shouldn’t do it either or give it to anybody else. But I got a letter from him, from somebody at the university later while I was there saying that they were having to dispose the letter, so I free to do with the letter whatever I wanted to, which I always thought I was free to do with the letter anything I wanted, but of all the things, I did keep that letter.

Actually, when you called, I thought you may want the letter, and I went to my computer to see if I had in some fashion done a digital file on it, and it surprised





me that I did not. But I’m going to try to get it and send it to you, and some of this will be clear.

	G:	Okay.





[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	 Katie Delk, September 15, 2021 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, September 15, 2021 Final edited by:	Sandra Romero, September 16, 2021