AAHP 129; Nickie; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 129 Rachael Nickie African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Allen Rocky Cusseaux on September 3, 2010 10 minutes | 6 pages



Abstract: This interview was conducted at the 2010 Black Alumni Weekend at the University of Florida. After AAHP team member Anna Brodrecht coached the two on the nature of the interview, alum Rocky Cusseaux conducted the interview with Ms. Nickie. She explains her reasons for attending UF, and what her experience was like. She also discusses how she navigated the sheer size of the university and her classes, including participation in student organizations, and offers some hopes for the future of UF.





Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida]





















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 129

Interviewee: Rachael Nickie Interviewer: Allen Rocky Cusseaux Date: September 3, 2010



	C:	This is Allen Rocky Cusseaux Jr. interviewing Ms. Rachael Nickie. Rachael, what brought you to the University of Florida?

	N:	When I was deciding on what university I would attend, it was basically between the University of Florida and the University of Miami. I grew up in Miami. I knew when I was growing up there that I didn’t necessarily want to stay around the family so I was hoping to get away but still have a great experience. I was still willing to stay ‘cause Coral Gables is far from Hialeah, Miami Lakes, where I grew up. My decision was basically financial. I could go to the University of Florida and go there for free or go to UM and not be able to stay on campus, that means I would have stay home. I came to the University of Florida, free education.

	C:	Excellent. Tell us about what your impression of UF was before you got here and then what the reality was once you actually saw it.

	N:	My focus when deciding on a college was basically what will my degree be worth once I graduate. That’s how I looked at my education. I was basically here to get my education in order to seek out the jobs that I really I wanted. I knew it was a great school and that was the bottom line. I wanted to go to a good, quality university.

	C:	Once you got here, did it meet your expectations? Were there some surprises? N:	No, everything that I experienced here, as far as my education, everything was up to par with the classes, the instructors, all the organizations that were





available to Black students. I was pretty happy my time that I was here. My four years.

	C:	Usually when a student is starting here and they’re doing their general education at the time we were students, sometimes those classes were pretty big. Did you have any of those big stadium classes?

	N:	The bulk of mu classes—I chose my major. I was in Journalism all throughout high school. I was involved in television production. I would either be a television news anchor or on the back end, the production side. Everything in the J School, there’s a lot of people that are in the J School. All those classes are pretty big.

You really didn’t get to know some of the students in your classes because it’s just so big. When you have your breakout sessions you get to have some more one-on-one and get to interact. As far as Black students were concerned in the J School, there were very few. I would say probably three or four out of six hundred students, some of my classes.

	C:	UF is a big university. Were there some things you did in particular or some groups that you were a part of that helped make it seem like it wasn’t so big? How did you manage it?

	N:	Most definitely. When I came on campus, basically, I didn’t live on campus like most students. I lived off-campus so I didn’t get to get involve as much my first year. My second year, just going to some of the events like the Black Student Union had some shows. Getting more active in those, I was really happy to get involved, I got more involved from my sophomore year on. Highly involved in the Caribbean Student Association, that’s like my baby. I was all about the





Caribbean Student Association. Still to this day, there’s a bigger group: Florida Caribbean Student Association, we have alumni that do a lot of work in communities throughout the state of Florida and so forth. I did a lot of work with them. I was their historian. I was a dance choreographer. Participated a lot with the Black Female Extravaganza, VISA. Rocky talked about the VISA: Volunteers for International Student Affairs. We did a lot of great things. SGP Productions.

We brought a lot of, I know—the Caribbean Student Association, we would have a reunion every year. We’d have this big conference. We brought in big artists that catered to our needs in the Caribbean Student Association. We had Beenie Man and everybody else. It was good times.

	C:	Excellent. Did you live off campus the entirety of your stay at UF?



	N:	Yes, I lived off-campus. My first year I lived in Oakbrook Walk, which is kind of like you’re living on campus ‘cause I had to share a room with someone. I shared a room with someone, shared a bathroom with the same young lady, and we shared a common area, kitchen. It’s kind of like the same vibe as living on campus. I stayed there for two years and then I stayed at University Commons for my final two years. Where I had my own room at least.

	C:	Living off-campus how did you manage to get back and forth?



	N:	At the time we had a really good system here in Gainesville. As long as you had a Gator 1 you get on that bus and you’re good to go. I did not have a car my first three years. I actually got a car my senior year. It really wasn’t a necessity. Some friends might have had cars and it wasn’t a problem. Gainesville really caters to University students.





	C:	You grew up in the Miami area. Did you have a chance to make it home a lot? Or did you pretty much stay up here once you got up here?

	N:	We were out of town quite a bit every chance we got. It didn’t have to be a long weekend. All the different organizations that I belonged to, we would find a party. We’d go over to Embry-Riddle, if they had a party we’ll drive over for a night and come back. It’s been good times inside and outside of Gainesville. Did a lot of little trips to Atlanta sometimes, we did even go out of state.

	C:	Being off-campus, being involved in all these organizations sounds wonderful.



Were there some people in your life here on campus like some mentors who had helped you to navigate this wonderful university?

	N:	Before coming to the university, they had a session—I believed they had them in the major cities in Florida for the bright African American students. They have a special meeting just for us. I remember Mike Powell. Mike Powell was a great asset here at the university. He is still here at the university. He has been instrumental in making sure I know where to go for anything. You could always get with Mike Powell.

	C:	I know you were in the J School, so what was your final degree in? N:	I have my Bachelor’s of Science degree in Telecommunications.

	C:	What’s it like for you now to come back to the university?



	N:	It is great to come back to the university. It’s amazing to see all the changes that have been made. The University of Florida has a ton of money because of alumni support. There’s a lot of quality programming that they have university- wide, as far as Black students go. I currently work for a non-profit organization





and they work with young people. I’m here trying to promote the Gator Nation. I ask, “What school you are going to go to?” I hear UCF, University of South Florida. I’m like, “How about the University of Florida?” “Oh, it’s too hard to get into the University of Florida,” or, “They’re not going to accept me, I haven’t done so and so.” It’s unfortunate that that is the case. I think the university needs to do a better job of targeting minority students. I think it’ll be an asset to the university as a whole to have a more diverse culture, diverse population.

	C:	Sounds like overall you had a pretty good experience at the University of Florida.



Did you have any regrets?



	N:	In general I don’t really regret, I’m not one to have any regrets. No I wouldn’t say I have any regrets. I should’ve gone to some more parties. No, kidding.

	C:	Well Rachael, thank you very much for your time. It has been a pleasure to interview you.

	N:	Thank you, sir.



	C:	Would you say it’s great to be a Florida Gator?



	N:	It is definitely great to be a Florida Gator. I hope that my two little girls will become Florida Gators as well.

[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Andre Everette



	Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, October 18, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 19, 2019