AAHP 446; Harvey; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 446 Trevor D. Harvey African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Vickie Oldham on November 20, 2015 34 minutes | 18 pages



Abstract: Mr. Trevor D. Harvey reflects on his upbringing in Newtown, Florida. A fire in his home when he was a small child had a great impact on him. He describes the businesses he and his grandparents used to frequent for their groceries and other needs in Newtown. He also shares in great detail his education in grade school and the teachers who mentored him. He graduated early and was offered a job as account manager at a Rent to Own company, so instead of attending Florida A&M University on a ROTC scholarship, he remained home and worked. He later attended Eckerd College. He reflects on his time serving as the president of the local chapter of the NAACP and the organization’s role in his community. He concludes the interview sharing his vision and hope for Newtown.



Keywords: [Newtown, Florida; NAACP; Black Businesses; African American History]



Standards:

1. SS.912.A.5.7 National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP)

































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 446

Interviewer: Vickie Oldham Interviewee: Trevor D. Harvey Date: November 20, 2015



	O:	It is November the 20th. What is your name? H:	Trevor D. Harvey.

	O:	And Trevor, where were you raised? Give us the addresses or locales.



	H:	I may be able to give you the locales. Obviously I was reared in Sarasota, FL, particularly in the Newtown community. When I was born we stayed with my grandparents, Nathaniel and Mary Lee Harvey, off of Links Ave 2101, North Links Avenue. We stayed there for a short time after my birth. From there, we moved to an apartment on Church and MLK and there was a fire. It burnt down. We lost all of our belongings. And I’m a very young child at this point in time, but I remember the fire like it was yesterday. It was horrific. Being three, four years old going through that process was a horrific event in my life. From there, we went to Buchholz and we were there for several years until we could do better. Then we moved from there to 12th and Central Avenue. We stayed at a house right at the corner of 12th and Central, just a little bit south of the park there that’s off of Central Avenue. And then we moved to Newtown Estates around 1976. And my mom has owned a house in Newtown Estates ever since. That’s where I finished out my growing up process for middle, high school until young adulthood.

	O:	Tell me more about that fire. Were you all there? How did it start?



	H:	I can’t remember how it started. I was a little bit too young to remember how it was started. But we were there. I do know from stories that my mom told us, that they had to bust out windows and stuff. Get us out of the house. Thank God my mom and my two older sisters, we all got out alive. We lost everything. So a lot of





historical pictures that my mom had in her possessions was lost. So a lot of that stuff we had to re-get from my grandparents. Thank God that my grandparents had some of that stuff. And then we had to rebuild a lot of those memories because we lost a lot of stuff in the fire.

	O:	How did that fire impact you as a little boy?



	H:	Just as any little kid going through a horrific event, “Am I gonna survive?” “What’s gonna happen to– are we gonna get out of this thing alive?” So I think it impacted not only my mom, but definitely me and sisters greatly. Because we didn’t know what was going to happen, or we wasn’t in charge of our life at that point in time. But again thank God, through the strength of my mom and others that was around at the time of the fire, we were able to get out safely and we’re here today.

	O:	Wow, thank God for that testimony. Now tell me about your remembrances of Newtown growing up as a little boy, and maybe you have teenage memories of some indelible moments, unforgettable moments.

	H:	Well, I can remember coming up in the late [19]60s, in the [19]70s, and the [19]80s in the Newtown community, we had a very thriving community. My generation came in on the tail end of that. I remember the can store, the Jenkins store, the Moore’s groceries, the Humphries drug store, the bicycle, Mr. Joe, the bike man, Mr. Shaw, the shoeshine man. I remember all of that. I was a product of all of that. And a lot of times I dream for our community to go back to all of that one day.





	O:	Did you actually go along with your parents and grandparents to the grocery store?

	H:	Absolutely, not only did I go but obviously when I got old enough, they would send us to the store, especially when we stayed at my grandparents, again, who is off of Links Avenue. My grandmother, granddaddy would say “Hey, could you run around to Jenkins grocery store, can store? Grab me this or grab me that.” So that was enjoyable, to not only go to the community stores with them but to also be able to venture out to those stores. I even remember the dentist’s office that was on the other end of Can’s store. So I just remember that as a young kid coming up in the Newtown community.

	O:	Do you remember some items that you would shop for in the grocery store?



	H:	Well when we were going to the grocery store, especially after Sunday school, I think all the community kids after Sunday school no matter what church you went to we all ended up at one of the grocery stores. Whether it was Humphries or Can’s. And we would get the little coconut bar, cookies, Now-and-Laters, that was the thing that we would get. That was our time to be able to catch up with each other. Walking to the store after Sunday school, before morning service started. So those are the kind of things that I remember that was really fun growing up as a kid. ‘Cause it was like clockwork. We were all gonna meet at one of those stores after Sunday school on Sunday.

	O:	And you said something about nine layers? H:	Now-and-Laters.

	O:	Now-and-Laters. Oh okay. Oh yes. That’s like kind of a taffy.





	H:	Taffy. Little taffy thing that we all used to do growing up. O:	Where did you go to school?

	H:	I started off at Helen Payne Day Nursery. I think if you were a product of the Newtown Community, you sat in front of Ms. Helen and Ms. Payne. I don’t think too many people who have not in our generation, I should say, that came up in this community. So I was there.

	O:	Who were the people that taught there?



	H:	Ms. Helen and Ms. Payne. It was named after Helen– I’m sorry it’s Ms. Helen and—

	O:	I had Ethel Hayes as a sister—



	H:	I’m sorry, it was Ms. Helen and I think Ms. Ethel was still there if I I’m not mistaken. But that was just– as a matter of fact on one of my vision boards is actually my graduation picture from Helen Payne R Day Nursery. On my vision board in my little white cap and gown, my front teeth missing. But that’s one of the pictures that I had on my vision board because that’s where I got that foundation from. And it reminded me of where I came from.

	O:	You gotta take us through a day in the life of a kid at Helen Payne.



	H:	Oh my goodness. First of all, the ladies there, Ms. Ethel and Ms. Helen, they were just passionate women. And they wanted to make sure that every single boy and girl in this community succeeded. They had an invested interest in our wellbeing. They were like our second parents. They were our parents away from parents. They knew how to chastise us and didn’t have to worry about mom or dad getting upset if we got out of line. They had the authority to deal with it. But





not only did they instill those morals and values in us or continued those morals and values in us that our parents and our grandparents did, but they also allowed us to be who we are too. They allowed us to have that fun. When it was time to get back to business, we got down to business. When it was time to play, they allowed us to do those things that kids do at that age.

	O:	So they taught you the fundamentals. The ABCs. The 123s—



	H:	The ABCs. The 123s. The 2 + 4s. They taught the circles, the basic colors. That’s where we got that foundation from.

	O:	What about playtime there?



	H:	Playtime was fun. Especially for boys. When it came to playtime, we were always ready to go outside and get on the little circle thing that turns around.

	O:	[Laughter] The carousel.



	H:	The carousel, the little horses, and the little seesaw. The swings and all of that.



That was fun for us as kids. And I think sometimes as bigger kids some of us kind of enjoyed– because I enjoyed going to the park with my kids and now my grandkids because it reminds me of the upbringing that I had at that same age.

	O:	Right. Do you remember some the friends that you had at that time? H:	Oh man.

	O:	That would run around on the seesaw with you?



H:  The list just goes on and on with the friends, the space, the bat tease, the red wings, the list kind of just goes on and on and on with the friends that I had at Helen Payne.

O:   Now from Helen Payne, take me through elementary and—





	H:	Ended up elementary– because of moving and location, because some schools you was a district kid. I went to Brentwood for a short period. And then after Brentwood, I ended up at Booker Bay Haven Basics Plus at that point in time.

And then when we moved over to Newtown Estates, I ended up at Gocio Elementary School. So I finished– I think I got to Gocio around the third grade, if I can remember. So I finished third through sixth grade at Gocio Elementary. And then from Gocio, I ended up at McIntosh because that was our district school.

But here’s the funny thing about that, my class—I graduated in the class of 1986 from Sarasota High School—my class was the class that actually changed the current format as it is now. We went to junior high school. Junior high school was back then 7th, 8th, and 9th. Well I only went to junior high school for 7th, and 8th grade. Because it was my class that changed the 9th grade being moved to high school. So I went to elementary school for six years, junior high school for two years, and then ended up at high school for four years.

	O:	Help me to understand the environment at the elementary schools and the junior high schools. Do you remember your teachers?

	H:	Well at the elementary school level, most of my teachers, not all of them, some names stick out. Obviously at Gocio Elementary, I came up under Mrs. Mary Watts, who is one of the greatest educators that has probably come through the Sarasota area. And Mrs. Watts played the radio. And it was that continued mode from what we got from Helen Payne Day Nursery. She had a vested interest. She lived at this community. We saw her at church. We saw her in the grocery store.





She had an invested interest in our wellbeing. And Mrs. Jones, one of my favorite teachers who still lives in this—

	O:	Doris Jones?



	H:	Mrs. Doris Jones was one of my teachers at Gocio Elementary. So I remember those teachers that had the invested interest in us because they lived in our community. So not only did we see them at school, we also saw them in the community and we couldn’t get away with anything because they’ll show up at Mom’s house or grandma and grandpa’s house and say, “Trevor wasn’t the best today.” But those were the kind of relationships that we had back then in the community. When I went to junior high school at McIntosh Middle, there wasn’t any African American educators at McIntosh Junior High when I was there. I think we had some custodians there, but as far as educators, we didn’t have any. I do remember our principal Mr. Haygood, very strict disciplinary principal.

	O:	Was he African American? H:	No he wasn’t.

	O:	Oh okay.



	H:	Mr. Haygood was not African American. And then when I shifted over to Sarasota High School then I had Peggy Wiggins. Ms. Peggy Wiggins hadn’t quite gotten to the district level yet. So she was still there. Mrs. Donna Timmons was one of my teachers at Sarasota High School. And again, these were educators that had an invested interest in us because they saw us every day. In and outside of school.

	O:	It’s interested that the ones that you named are yes, from the community. Do you remember any of the other teachers that you had?





	H:	I mean I do remember some of the other teachers. I remember some of them like Mrs. Erikson, and Mrs. Brantly at Gocio Elementary School. So I do remember some those other teachers and I appreciate what those other teachers gave us as well. But it was a sense of– when I mentioned Donna Timmons and Peggy Williams and Doris Jones and Mrs. Mary Watts. It was a sense of community with those individuals because they knew what the expectations coming from home were. And we might have not have directly been in their particular classroom on a particular given day, but they knew what time it was. And they had the authority to do what was necessary to make sure that we stayed in line and that’s why I think that they’re more ingrained in my psyche than some of the other teachers are.

	O:	I see. Now what about high school and college?



	H:	High school again I spent all four years at Sarasota High School, graduated in the top ten percent of my high school. Graduated early, I knew that I wasn’t gonna be that star athlete. I did play football, I played Redskins, I played Newtown little league, I played high school football but I knew I wasn’t gonna be that star athlete. So I think after my sophomore year of high school, I quit the football team ‘cause I knew I wasn’t gonna get a scholarship. That just wasn’t gonna be me. And I began to just really focus on my academics. So to the point that even back then we were allowed to go to summer school, back then, and just kind of take classes. So my mom would schedule our vacation time for the summer around me having the opportunity to go to high school. So by the time I got to my senior year in high school I only needed one credit to graduate from





high school. And it was just an English credit. So when I got to into my senior year, I sat down with my mom, I said, “Mom, it doesn’t make sense for me to go to school for nine months for one credit. We go to figure out something. It doesn’t make sense to me.” So we met with my guidance counselor and the assistant principals at the schools in that point in time and basically they allowed me to take two English classes the first half of the school year. I had took a regular English and then an Honors English and at the end of the year, I was done. I got a job because I had all of this time on my hands six or seven months before graduation on my hands. So I got a job and waited for graduation to occur and then I participated in all those senior stuff, grad night, senior prom, and all that kind of stuff. But I was done though. So I had a great high school career. Mr.

Raynone was our principal, great principal. Mr. Dan Perret, great assistant principal. The late Eddie Howe. All of these gentlemen really instilled a lot of manhood in us as well back in those days.

	O:	Where’d you get the job?



	H:	I started off at a friend of mine who had graduated maybe three or four years prior to me was the manager of a local rent-to-own company called Champion

T.V. It was the third largest rent-to-own company in the world. And I was getting ready to go to– had already signed the deal to go to Florida A&M University in Tallahassee on a ROTC scholarship because I spent five years in ROTC in high school. So I started working for him just until graduation. Got ready to go off to college and I got into that business and learnt that business so fast that even before I graduated from high school they were promoting me to an account





manager. Here it is I’m at the age of seventeen, eighteen years old. I was the head account manager for this company and when I graduated from high school they wanted to promote me to a store manager. They were transferring my friend to a store up in Bradenton and they offered me to Sarasota store. And I had to make a decision. Go off to college or do I go into this management position? I’m a young man at the age of eighteen, nineteen years old making over thirty, thirty- five thousand dollars without a college education. And I actually took the decision and I stayed. And ran the company. It was very beneficial to me. And after leaving there, I got into the insurance industry, worker’s comp specialist. Got my certifications in the worker’s compensation industry. But I always had a passion for college. Always mentoring and speaking to young people about the importance of education and even with my own when I started having children, preaching that to my own children and I had a sense that I was missing something because I had not finished college. So because of the message that I was given, I made the decision that if you’re going to give this message, if you’re gonna preach and teach this message, then you need to live this message as well. So I finally decided to go back to college and completed my college degree at Eckerd over in St. Pete in business administration and management.

O:  What kind of changes did you see in the community during those high school years and when you were a manager and so forth? ‘Cause those were years when the community really started to change, right?

H:  Yeah, it was. The community, again, going back to those early years community thriving, we had our own business, our own cleaners, our own drugstores. I mean





we just had everything. But then, as I started getting into middle and high school and then coming out of high school, the community just took a paradigm shift.

And I always relate to desegregation. I think that at that point in time, I understand the whole concept of integration and all of that. And I think it was a vital piece of our community, but I think when we began to start integrating, our community lost a lot of stuff. Money started going out of our community.

Businesses started getting shut down and started getting boarded up, and I think to a certain degree that hurt us to a perspective. I understood the concept and there’s nothing we can do about it right now, I just don’t think we were ready.

Because when that full integration happened, we just lost a lot. And we’re still trying to recover from it even today in the year 2015.

	O:	Right. Did you see the changes when more drugs came into the community, too?



	H:	I think drugs not only hurt, because the drug epidemic came around in the eighties and stuff and I think the drug epidemic not only hurt the Newtown community but I think it just hurt all communities across this country. It was just a bad thing. Crack just destroyed a lot of communities. And yes, to a certain degree, a lot of the minority communities were impacted the greatest by the drug epidemic because of just our pocket. Because we were so small and it was just the pockets that we were in that it just really hurt us. And then I think it set us back years, and again we’re still recovering from a lot of that stuff.

	O:	Exactly. Now, where does the NAACP come into your story? Like how did this happen? You’re president.





	H:	Vicky, around the age of twenty, twenty-one years old– me and a close friend of mine, Mr. Richard Redding, who lives in the Atlanta area now. Great, great friend of mine. We kinda assessed the community and we were like, where were the young men our age. Where were they? What were they doing? Because we were looking up to the Mr. John Rivers, the Dr. Ed James. The Fred Atkins, the Mr.

Rainey, we were looking at those individuals but that middle group was missing. We was like, “Where is that middle group at?” So I decided at that point in time, that I wanted to get involved in the community. I wanted to do something. I had no interest in the NAACP, only knew very little about the NAACP by just what I studied and what it meant to our country and the significant contributions that it made in our communities across the country. But I started off teaching t-ball at Newtown Little League. Mr. Hank got us involved and I just started coaching Newtown Little League and it kinda from there it just took off. From Newtown Little League, I ended up getting involved in Ringling Redskins. Then all of a sudden, I got involved in the NAACP. Got involved in the grassroots organization. I served up under Larry Lovejoy. I served up under Tony Cornish, Dr.

Reverend—



	O:	Tony Cornish was president?



	H:	Matter of fact, I took over from Tony Cornish. Tony was in the middle of his term when him and his wife got a transfer to the Philadelphia area. And that’s how I became president because I was the immediate vice president. And the way the structure works is, the immediate vice president automatically becomes the president. And then from there every two years we have an election cycle. I’ve





been voted back into the office. So that’s how the NAACP got involved. Just me starting off with Newtown Little League just wanting to make a difference in the community. Ended up getting involved in the oldest and biggest civil rights organization in the world. And ultimately became the president. And I’m an area director for the Florida State Conferences of the NAACP. I oversee seven other branches in the state of Florida for the NAACP as well.

	O:	How many terms have you be voted in?



	H:	Well, I’m coming out of probable my fifth term, I think. I think I’m concluding about ten years now. The end of this year. But I have a succession plan in place because I never wanted to be in the presidency for life. I didn’t want to be a lifer. I just wanted to make a difference. And I always believe that our seasons come and go. And I believe that my season is going to be up soon. I don’t know when that’s going to be but I do believe that it is going to be up soon and I have a succession plan. It could be in two years, it could be in four years, but I’m laying the groundwork to make sure that the work can continue. I will never leave the organization even if I’m not the president because I’m just passionate about the organization and what the organization stands for. So I’m gonna always work for the organization, but the mantle is gonna be passed pretty soon.

	O:	What will you say are some great accomplishments under your leadership as NAACP president?

	H:	A couple of things that come to mind. One of the things that come to mind was when I became president, I reactivated our leadership academy and our youth branch because our youth branch had sat dormant for a number of years. And by





being involved in youth activities and mentoring youth, I felt that that’s one of the things that NAACP could make a strong difference is continuing to help develop our young people and give them a sense of why it’s important to be involved in the community. A lot of our young people don’t understand what the NAACP is and what the NAACP does. And a lot of times, we have to get our young people to understand that every civil liberty that we enjoy today had came on the backs of the NAACP. So we have to teach our young people those. So that was a very passionate initiative that I needed to get started back. And it’s been very, very successful. We got some great youth workers and our youth workers are doing some big things in the community as well.

	O:	I’m glad you mentioned that because I’m thinking about Sheila Sanders Brown and she talked about being so active as a youth. As a youth in this organization and yes, I’m glad that you’re training up these new leaders to emerge and take the mantle.

	H:	Well, you think about Ed James III. He’s a product of the NAACP Youth Council. He was the youth council president and look at what this young man has done. Obviously, his dad is his dad, so he had it in him but as a result of some of the training that he got through the NAACP Youth Council, this young man is going to be somebody that we need to watch out for. But you’re right, and there’s others besides Ed III as we call him. Raven Cokley that I can just think about that just graduated from the University of Georgia with her Master’s of Psychology degree. And now she’s teaching over at Booker Middle School. There’s many





that has come through that leadership academy and is doing great things in our community now.

	O:	How can we attract other young leaders like these two, to come back and give to our community? Because you know, we know, that people leave and say I’m never coming back except to visit my family for the holidays.

	H:	And that’s very valid because I know growing up, that was what was in my mind.



That when I graduated from high school, I’m leaving, I’m not coming back. But then as I begin to reassess myself and assess the community, I was like, “Why go to another community and make an impact when my own community needs me to make an impact?” And I think that’s what we have to get our younger individuals to understand, that those that are here now, that are getting ready to go off to college. Yes, we want you to go off to college. We want you to go sow those roots and learn from different communities but we need you to come back home. Because we need you more here in our communities than Atlanta. Atlanta is gonna take care of itself. It’s the Mecca. Charlotte’s gonna take care of itself.

Chicago is gonna take care of itself. We need you to come back home and make a difference in our community. So I think that’s the message. We have to get them to understand the importance of making a difference because many of them want to come back and retire. What are you gonna come and retire to if you don’t come make a difference?

O:  Right. And I found in going back, and going away, that communities away are just like our community is. New people they don’t accept readily, you’ve got to establish some roots. You can’t just jump up and do what you want to do.





	H:	Because it’s like you don’t belong here. Who are you? So those are the things you have to battle with.

	O:	Well, we’re going to end this. I just want to know. How has this community impacted you as one and where do you envision Newtown going from here on?

	H:	Well, the Newtown community impacted me in a great way. It made out of the man that I am today because the Newtown community is a big family community. I could remember growing up, we could leave our front doors open. Didn’t have to worry about anything. If I got out of line, Mrs. Smith next door could check me, went home, told Mom, Mom checked me again, or grandparents checked me again. And I think because of that true sense of it takes a village to raise a child, that’s what we had when I was growing up and I’m hoping one day, that this community actually can get back to that village ‘cause I think it takes all of us.

Just because I belong to a Betty Harvey and Nathaniel and Mary Lee Harvey, that doesn’t mean Mr. Rainey is not a dad as well. Or Dr. James is not a dad as well, or Mr. Rivers is not a dad as well. Or Mrs. Jones is not a mom as well. ‘Cause I think we all play a vital role in the upbringing of our children. That’s how they impacted me. It is those individuals that cause me to do what I do now. They gave it to me and want to give it back to the next generation that’s coming up behind me.

	O:	Oh, that’s good. Sends chills through my spine here. Anything you’d like to add?



H:  You know, you talk about the vision. The vision that I would like to see this community is we’re on to something right now. We have a lot of economic revitalization going on in our community. We have three schools in our





community. There’s not many schools that has three schools in their community. We have Booker Elementary, Booker Middle, Booker High School. We have two state of the art gymnasiums. We have a library. We have a lot of stuff in this community where we can be one of the greatest communities, I believe, in the United States of America. And that’s where I want to see the Newtown community. I want to see cleaners back. I want to see stores that are owned back by us and not some individuals that don’t look like us. And I’m not against anybody owning a business but I think that we need to own our own. We need to invest in our own. And those are some of the divisions and goals that I have set for the Newtown community.

	O:	One absolutely last– how do we get there with business ownership and African Americans owning more businesses? And homes for that matter.

	H:	One of the things– we have to be ready. Meaning we have to get our credits in order. And if our credit is not in order, we need to go to the right financial planner and we need to get those things put into place so we can be able to go to banks and we can begin to get involved in home ownership. Even if it’s the lease option to own, we need to start that process. So we need to get ourselves together.

When we come to businesses we need to make sure that we have a vital business plans together. We need to get mentors. We need to get into business incubators. We need to do all of our homework and all of the research that we need to do to make sure that when we go to those that hold the financial power, that we’re ready. Oftentimes, we’re not ready. So we need to just make sure that we’re ready and I think that we’ll be able to accomplish what it is we want to





accomplish. We’ll get home ownership, we’ll get those businesses, but we have to be ready first.

	O:	Got it. Thank you, Trevor. [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Krystal Dixon, June 2017



	Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, October 22, 2018 Final edit by:	Sandra Romero, November 5, 2020