AAHP 169; Harris; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 169 Emory Harris

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Marna Weston on April 6, 2011 29 minutes | 18 pages



Abstract: In this 2011 telephone interview, Emory Harris (born October 5, 1943) discusses his early life and education in Albany, GA, but focuses on his experience in the civil rights movement, especially as a freedom singer for the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee and the Southern Christian Leadership Council. Harris stresses the importance of singing and faith to the movement, and talks about integration strategies and the movement in the Albany, GA which he underscores was successful. He talks about the importance of setting up markers for remembering the movement as well as the need to educate children to continue in the legacy of the civil rights movement.

[Keywords: African American History; Monroe High School; Dougherty County, Georgia] SS.912.A.7.5 Social activism

SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts,

artifacts, literature, education, and publications.









































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 169

Interviewee: Emory Harris Interviewer: Marna Weston Date of Interview: April 6, 2011



	H:	Hello?



	W:	Hey, Mr. Harris, this is Marna Weston again. I wanted to let you know we’re on, it’s all running, so I’ll start out just by saying on behalf of myself and the Sam Proctor Oral History Program at the University of Florida it is a great pleasure to speak with you, Mr. Emory Harris, in Albany, Georgia. Could you just start out by telling a little bit about yourself? When and where were you born?

	H:	My name is Emory Leon Harris. I was born October 5, 1943, in Albany, Georgia. I went to school at Monroe High School, which was the only Black school in Dougherty County, at the time, back in the [19]60s.

	W:	Who are your mother and father?



	H:	Mother and father’s name is Katie Bea Harris and my father was named Reverend Isaiah Andrew Harris.

	W:	Who was your dad’s mother and father?



	H:	My dad’s mother was named Annie Lou Harris and his dad was named Isaiah Harris.

	W:	Okay. Do you have any memories of their parents?



	H:	No. Well, my mother’s mother was living during the time. I think they parents both died but my mother’s mother was still living. I think when I was born she was something like 65 or 67, something like that.

	W:	Okay, well then who are your mother’s mother and father then?



	H:	My mother’s mother, she was named Ms. Annie Douglas. She was a Douglas.



Momma’s maiden name, it was Douglas.







	W:	And your grandfather?



	H:	My grandfather was named, I think, Butler. I think Butler Douglas.



	W:	Were they from the same area that you live in now or did your grandparents on both sides come from somewhere else?

	H:	Well my grandparents come from down in Jacksonville, around Jacksonville, Florida. And my father’s parents come from Calhoun County, up in southwest Georgia.

	W:	What brought your mom’s people from Jacksonville to the Albany area? H:	She married my daddy, and he brought her from Jacksonville to Cordele,

Georgia where he was minister at this church there, down in Cordele, Georgia.



	W:	Do you recall the name of the church?



	H:	I think it was Mt. Cavalry Baptist Church, I think it was the name of it. W:	What brought him to Florida where he met your mother?

	H:	He left Calhoun County, and I guess his parents—you know, I’ve never had a chance, ‘cause he died when I was seven years old, so I didn’t get a chance, really, to get a lot of information. Most all the information that I got on my daddy was after he passed, ‘cause he passed when I was seven years old.

	W:	Okay, so you don’t really know why he was in Jacksonville and had the chance to meet your mother?

	H:	No, I don’t know the whole story on that.



	W:	Okay. How about on your dad’s side of the family? How did they come to go from Calhoun to Albany?







	H:	Well, I actually don’t know that. Like I said, I was young then, I was like seven years old when papa died, so I really don’t know that much information. I goes down to Dawson, Georgia, where my father have some kinfolk down there. They just tell me how he grew up there and then he moved to Jacksonville, then he came back to Albany, ‘cause he was preaching here in Albany at several churches throughout Albany: Moultrie, Cordele, you know. But for a lot of history on daddy’s side, I really don’t know a lot of history. On my mother’s side there’s a lot of history. Like eight sets of families were born on my mother’s side.

	W:	Do you have other brothers and sisters?



	H:	I have two sisters. One named Rutha Harris. She was one of the original Freedom Singers. Then I got another sister named Juanita Harris, I mean Juanita Gardner Harris.

	W:	How about your own personal family? Are you married? Do you have children?



	H:	Oh, yeah. I got twenty-seven kids. I’m not married at the time. I did get married through one of those affairs that I had but the rest of the time, I haven’t been since then. I got married back in 1966.

	W:	And you say you have twenty-seven children? H:	Twenty-seven kids.

	W:	Is that from children who have come into your life through your opening your family through adoption or you have twenty-seven natural children?

	H:	Oh, I have twenty-seven natural kids.







W:  That is such an incredible story. We’re not going to be able to get all that today, but how did that come about that you would be so prolific to have twenty-seven children?

	H:	During the time I was coming up, I was pretty popular. I always could sing and was a pretty nice-looking fellow then, and girls just flocked to me. I played football, first string, quarterback. I played basketball, first string guard and I was real good at it, real good. Played good football, played good basketball, so all the girls just flocked to me, you know? And then after I got into the Civil Rights Movement and started traveling all over country, I just met a lot of people. So I’ve just been doing a lot of things. Lot of singing through the Civil Rights Movement. And then, after the Civil Rights Movement, I got with—this I was doing with the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee—I sung with them some seven, eight years and then after they broke up I went with SCLC, so I was with SCLC for about two, three years.

	W:	What is your earliest memory of formal education? Where did first you go to school?

	H:	I went at Carver Junior High School and I went to Monroe Elementary School. W:	Who was the first teacher that really impressed you in your life?

	H:	Her name was Bragg, Ms. Annie Braggs. She had a lot of influence on me. She always tried to get me to keep cool, be smart, do what you have to do. She’s kind of teacher that would come. Somebody could call her say, “Hey, one of your favorite students down there acting up a little bit.” And they could go get her and whatever I’m doing is bad, I would stop, ‘cause she would grab you by your ears,







pin you, you know for a fact she’s coming. So all that kind of helped me. She passed some years ago, but I think about her, I think she’s one of the teachers that really influenced my life.

	W:	Well, now you’ve talked about being involved in SCLC and SNCC and I haven’t yet asked you any questions about those, but I would like to ask you first about your definition of leadership. Because being involved in those organizations I’m sure required a great deal of talking to other people, inspiring, learning to follow, moving toward a cause. Do you have a personal definition of what leadership is to you?

	H:	Well, leadership is to me, is honesty and be truthful, not try to fool me to do things, always be straight with me, let me know if I’m going into a dangerous place. I’d like you to tell me that I’m going into danger, not just lead me in and wait ‘til I get there and tell me, “Oh, I should have told you, but you’re going into the lion’s den.” I like the person to just be honest with me. If I’m going somewhere, risking my life, just let me know. ‘Cause I did that several times, you know, during my travel.

	W:	Now you were introduced and described to me by Margaret Block, who is a freedom fighter and activist in Cleveland, Mississippi. And I’d like to ask you, what it is about yourself that brought you into Margaret’s life and led you to your involvement in activism?

	H:	Well, I got involved with her through the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee. We started out a movement here in Albany and then we traveled. So we was the Freedom Singers. And so what they would do, when they would have







some crisis, in all the places, they would call us to come down, we’ll sing, demonstrate, go to jail, and do it all. So during the time, I was working down in Alabama and Mississippi I got a chance to meet her whole family, so that’s how we got involved with each other through the Civil Rights movement, through the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee.

	W:	Why would singing be important to the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee?

	H:	Singing was the most important thing in terms of the whole Civil Rights Movement. I think without singing in the movement, it wouldn’t have been a movement. Just imagine you walking downtown, knowing you’re going in front of the Ku Klux Klan, the police got all the guns, you have nothing. You just couldn’t be silent and do all the things that we did. We began to march, we began to sing. And people—after we began to sing, people would come out the building to see what we doing and what’s going on. They would join in the lines. And then they find out after they join the line what’s happening. A lot of them went to jail and got upset when they got in there, “I didn’t know y’all were going to jail.” And they’d know for a fact that if you’re going up against the primal structure during the [19]60s, youse going to jail. ‘Cause you was fighting the same one now, that daresay, “Protect your life.”

	W:	How did you decide what songs to sing?



	H:	We were real spiritual, most of the people that head all of SNCC and SCLC were just spiritual people. So what we did, we took old songs and began to sing. And most of the people in the church knew the song, most of the people on the line







knew the song, so all we had to do was just strike out on a song, most everybody in Albany, Alabama, wherever, they knew the song. So we just start singing. And through those songs, it gave you more energy, gave you more spirit to do what you need to do. Just like I say, without the song, I don’t figure there would have been a demonstration. I just couldn’t see it.

	W:	A lot of people have tried to talk about and define what the Albany movement was. And a lot of the traditional accounts talk about how it began in the fall of [19]61 and entered into [19]62 and it was the first mass meeting of the modern civil rights era. But people have also said that the Albany movement has failed, or did fail. And I wanted to get your reaction. How would you respond and define your own way what the Albany movement was all about and whether or not it was a failure?

	H:	A lot of people just don’t have the right count. You have a lot of people who just come in and take things and then they really don’t get all the firsthand information. I was in it from day one when it started, I know what’s happening. When we got in to start demonstration down here in the [19]60s, we broke the bus station, we broke the Trailway buses, we went to lunch counters, closed down a lot of counters, you know, and I can’t understand what they can get this thing of we failed. When I see that, it upsets me, ‘cause I don’t understand what they’re talking about the failure. But then, you look every time on King Day they say, “Well King came to Albany and he failed.” And they don’t try to find out what he mean ‘cause they never say that. They always strike out on King says it was a failure in Albany. We had already broke Dougherty County before Dr. King came







to town. Dr. King was ordered to come to town here because we wanted to bring more news press into Albany, but in terms of getting everything that we needed that did everything we need to do, we had broke everything in this city. We went into bus stations, jumped in the pools, we did every kind of action that we needed in Albany. And Albany was successful in the Civil Rights Movement. In any book that you can find, Albany gonna be in the book, and we had a successful Civil Rights Movement. But at just that point, news always come up to say King failed in Albany. But just like I told you the other day, the only failure was, he as a minister knowing, in terms of when you read the bible they tell you, you already pulled the talk against another minister. He couldn’t come out there in the home and tell the whole press that he didn’t have the whole support of the ministers of Albany, Georgia. He didn’t, you know? But he just didn’t want to come out and say it. But that’s the only failure that happened in Dougherty County. Other than that, we had totally set up even before King came.

	W:	Do you think that there should be more visible symbols to represent the struggles and the history that took place in Albany or is it possible through a statue or a picture or a memorial to even capture what happened there? What are your thoughts on having more visible symbols to depict what occurred there?

	H:	I think in all cities where you had a great Civil Rights Movement, it should be a statue. Even in Birmingham with those four kids, I think somewhere around that church, it should be four statues of these four kids got killed. Even down in Mississippi a person got killed, it should be a statue, somewhere. It should be a notification even in Washington, about these people that got killed just trying to







give civil rights or even came down to just help people get their rights. I think it should be a statue in all these cities for these people. They got parks here, but no statues. All you do is go in these parks and read names. I went to a city, I think it was up in Philadelphia or Cleveland, where they got pictures of people that was in the Civil Rights Movement that got framed. They got pictures of these people and I think all this should happen all across the country. So when people go to these places, they can see these faces. You hear names but you don’t see faces. So I think it should be notification somewhere that there should be some pictures that can you can see those people that were slaves. Even Miss Laruzzo, Larizzo—I can’t pronounce her name real good, the one that got killed on the road just outside of Selma, Alabama—

	W:	Ms. Liuzzo.



	H:	Liuzzo, yeah. It should be a picture her. The curse that this lady had coming down to help with the civil rights, when she didn’t have to do it. And she left her family to do this.

	W:	What do you think is the value of having these pictures and you just mentioned one person if it was possible for you to be the person, just said, “Let it be done.” Whose pictures would you put up?

	H:	I would go ‘round in the cities and put up those people that did the most work.



You couldn’t put up all of them but what you do is you come up with some pictures—say put up three, four people in all those cities—I would definitely put pictures up of those four kids that got killed in Birmingham.







W:  Let me give you some names and just get some reactions. Tell me what you think of these people or how these names impact with you. Bernice Johnson Reagon.

	H:	Powerful lady. Powerful lady that been in the struggle all her life. You know, she’s from my area. She’s from Albany, Georgia, too. Bernice Reagon and Ruther Harris, they were in the first group of the Freedom Singers.

	W:	How about Reverend Samuel B. Wells?



	H:	Oh, one of the greatest ministers that ever been through Albany, Georgia that lost his job, had been on the job up to a marine base for some 26 years but just decide when the Civil Rights Movement started that he wanted to be a freedom fighter. So he got suspended from his job because of the Civil Rights Movement. One of the men that name should be put up. Now that’s one name should be put up, too.

W:  What can we do to transfer the knowledge of a generation that is slowly getting older without their story being told to younger people? What can we do to pass the torch to the next generation?

	H:	Well, what we gonna have to do is we gonna have to find some young people that was in the mindset of our mind during that time. It’s going to be hard to do, but we need to find some young kids that wanna take the torch, that wanna start going ‘round telling the history of what happened in Albany, Georgia, Dawson, Leesburg, Alabama, Birmingham, Tuscaloosa, Selma, Alabama, Mississippi.

Need to let them know. But you got to have some young people now to take the torch and take them to different places. Because you see, what is happening







now, most of older people have told the story so long until kids don’t even wanna listen. But if you got young people going ‘round telling these stories, they will listen. Kids have a tendency to like to listen to kids, so it’s going to have to be a new strategy now. You’re going to have to get kids involved and let them tell the story. That’s the only way I see really you can keep the story going. Now we keep going because we can sing and they like to hear our music. So that’s how we keep going after all these years from the [19]60s all up to now, we’re still singing. And we do it because we sing good and they like to hear the music and they like the words. The words are so powerful for all these songs that we do.

And we just keep moving.



	W:	Is there an example of a song that you can share a small portion of for this interview? Something that you would feel good about sharing.

	H:	Yeah, yeah. To my singing? W:	Yes, sir.

	H:	Okay. [Starts singing], “We’ve been beaten, we’ve been strong. We’ve been tough to beat [inaudible 18:38] but we’ll never turn back.” That was a song there about Herbert Lee, you know when he got killed. We put music to it, you know, let people know about the killing. So songs like that they just inspire people.

Medgar Evers, “This Little Light of Mine,” “Ain’t Gonna Let Nobody Turn Me Round”—all these songs was meaningful back in those days. Strong words, and people just sung them so strong people just had to listen. But like I was telling you, without the songs, things just wouldn’t have been right in terms of the Civil Rights Movement, not in terms of direct demonstration.







	W:	You know a lot of people look at the movement as things that happened in Mississippi, things that happened in Alabama, things that happened in Georgia, things that happened in Florida, as separate. Do you see the movement separately in that way or do you think it’s connected at a different level, and if so, what is that connection?

	H:	I really don’t see that much difference in terms of the direct action. We was doing the same thing. Our movement started earlier than a lot of those movements but the demonstration was the same: you’re sitting in, laying in, jumping in the pools, just demonstrating, going to the court house. So most all your demonstrations really were doing the same. Down in St. Pete when they beat those people down there really was a tough Civil Rights Movement. I just don’t see the difference in terms of the strategy of the Civil Rights Movement back then. ‘Cause you had the sit in, you had to lay in, you had to kneel down, and so your strategy almost was the same in all these cities. ‘Cause you got beat in all of them and killed, too.

	W:	As the years have gone one, I’m sure that you’ve remained in contact with people that were in the movement, Black and White.

	H:	Oh, yeah.



	W:	I’m curious, have you maintained or established contact with people that were on the other side? Because I’m sure you still recognize some of them, in the same community that you were in. Have any bridges or opportunities for communication or talking about the past come about with those people who were on the other side of the movement, who were saying no or weren’t saying anything at all?







	H:	There’s a lot of people here in Albany that have really changed. They come out saying things that the Civil Rights Movement gave. You have a lot of people who back then was pretty tough on Black people now realize that we human just like anybody else. So yeah, I kept contact with a lot of people. Even when I go out of town, I meet a lot people who say, “Well I was back in the day, and it wasn’t just me, it was my family.” So there’s a lot of people wanting to do some things, good things back then but they was just following the leader of what their parents was telling them to do, you know?

	W:	Did you ever have any conversation at the time or later on with Sheriff Pritchett, who has been cast as this figure throughout history? “Oh, Lorry Pritchett, he was a smart one. He knew how to pray with them and then take them to jail.”

	H:	Yes. Well you see, Pritchett was slick, you know what I’m saying? Pritchett was the kind of fella he always come around after every done happened, after everybody’s done been beat, everybody put in jail, then he’ll come around, you know to the cells and talk to you. Like my sister had a song, “Oh, Pritchett, Oh Kelly, Oh, Pritchett open them cells. Oh, Pritchett, Oh Kelly, Oh Pritchett Open,” and then at first when we started singing he stopped us. But then the songs got, I guess it got good so he used to come back and tell my sister, say, “Won’t you sing that song: Oh Kelly, Oh, Pritchett.” So he used to come back there and just have fun. But in terms of when everybody been getting beaten and all that kind of stuff, he would never be around. He just let his posse do things and he stand ‘round. That’s why we call him Slick Pritchett.







	W:	There’s some physical locations in Albany that have been identified with the movement. Mt. Zion Church, for example. But there’s a church directly across the street almost from Mt. Zion, isn’t there?

	H:	Shiloh.



	W:	That church is not talked about as much. Why do you think there’s so much focus on Mt. Zion and not on Shiloh?

	H:	I really don’t know. ‘Cause we had the first mass meeting was held at Shiloh, so I really don’t know why it’s not talked about as much. And they got a museum sign, First Mass Meeting, even when King came to town. It should be recognized there because when King came to town, he had to preach at both of the churches, same night. He preach across the street same time, then he would come across the street at Shiloh and preach three times so I don’t know why they don’t recognize that church like they do the other churches.

	W:	Do you recall the name of the minister at Shiloh during those times? H:	Yeah. Reverend Boyd.

	W:	Is Reverend Boyd still living or has he passed?



	H:	He’s still living. He’s kind of old but he’s still living and still pastor of that church.



He been in that church some 57 years. Yeah, he’s still there.



	W:	And would you say that based on the fact that there were equal numbers of sermons taking place in both churches in close proximity by Dr. King that they both contributed to the movement?

	H:	Oh yeah, oh yeah. Cause see, we would march from both of the churches. You know, we would march from Shiloh, then we would march from Mt. Zion. We







would march from both of the churches. That’s how many people was involved in the Civil Rights Movement. One church couldn’t even hold them all, so that’s why we was using two churches.

	W:	What can young people today learn from the movement and from people like yourself that were there at the time and are still willing to sing during a telephone interview and talk and to share the message? Outside of just our individual context, what can more people learn from that?

	H:	More people could learn, really how to—The Civil Rights Movement taught you obedience, taught you courage, taught you faith. Number one, it taught you faith, ‘cause we was running up against a lot of things. So you had to have faith and courage and belief, and trust in God. So I would say the kids now, “To just hold on to your faith, stay in your churches. Whatever church you go to, stay in there and get you some good knowledge and learn about your history. See, you need to know your history,’ cause there’s so much history about us, and you need to know your history, so you can tell your kids.” See that’s what’s happening with the word of the Civil Rights Movement now. Young kids having kids so they not teaching their kids now about the civil rights, and they need to know their history. They need to know where they come from. Who their parents were. Who the poor parents was. They need to know the history. So this is what I would tell the kids, “Just have faith, and belief, trust in God and do the best that you can do with your life. Definitely stay in school and finish school. Definitely do that.”

	W:	Well since you’ve offered a message for the students and the children, let me also give you an opportunity to offer a message to the historians who study this







period and who are trying to bring the message to the broader world. I’ll be attending a conference in Pensacola starting on April 7 with public historians, people trying to preserve public memory and one of the focuses will be the Albany movement. What message would you give to those individuals?

	H:	Well I would tell them to try to find out all about all the information that you can get from the Albany movement, not just the Albany movement, the Birmingham movement to Selma, the Jackson movement. You need to find out about all the Civil Rights Movements so you combine them all together. But in terms of the Albany movement, forget about talking ‘bout we failed in Albany because we didn’t fail in Albany. It’s a myth. We had broke this town before King had even come to town. So I say to them, find out the true history of the Albany Civil Rights Movement. The true history. And if some people here, like my sister Rutha Harris could tell you the true history of Albany. Because we didn’t fail in this town. We had torn this town up, even before SCLC came into town. So I say to them to get the right information.

	W:	Mr. Emory Harris, on behalf of the Sam Proctor Oral History Program, I want to thank you so much for taking the time to speak with me. On a personal level, I’m so honored, I’m glad that my friendship with Margaret allowed us to get a chance make a connection. I always like to close my interviews by asking the person who has been gracious enough to speak with me to feel free to comment on anything. Something on the interview, something we didn’t get to talk about. But at the end of those comments, that will conclude our interview. Thank you again.

	H:	Okay.







	W:	Is there something you’d like to offer?



	H:	Oh yeah, I just want to say thank you for inviting me to speak on the Albany Civil Rights Movement and I’m flattered to go anywhere in the country and talk about the Civil Rights Movement in Albany cause I know the success of the Albany movement and I’m proud that you gave me the opportunity to talk about it and I’m really blessed to be able to talk about this Civil Rights Movement.

	W:	Okay, thank you very much, that was terrific. I can’t tell you how much I appreciate your time, this will give me a lot more to talk about at the conference and I just I really appreciate your service, your courage, your longevity, your wisdom. Just all the ways you can think about, and also your talented voice. Very much appreciate that as well.

	H:	Well, thank you. [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Jessica Lancia, August 3, 2011



	Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, November 15, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 20, 2019