AAHP 710; Ransom; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 710 Ben Ransom Jr. 8-4-2019

Interviewed by Megan Pitt and Aanchel Shah on August 4, 2019 41 minutes | 17 pages



Abstract: In this interview, University of Florida students Megan Pitt and Aanchel Shah join Vietnam veteran Ben Ransom Jr at the VFW Center in Monticello, Florida, to recount his life story. Ransom grew up in Monticello, Florida, where he worked on his family’s farm and attended Howard Academy High School. After graduation, Ransom studied history and political science at Florida A&M University for two years before joining the Marine Corps in 1970. Ransom was initially deployed to Okinawa, Japan, then spent time in Vietnam before finishing his tour of duty in Parris Island, South Carolina. While in Vietnam, Ransom worked as a mechanized supply administrator. He reflects that he enjoyed his time in the service because it gave him the opportunity to see the world, traveling to the Philippines, Japan, Thailand, Vietnam, Singapore, and British Hong Kong. Although the war gave him the opportunity to travel, Ransom concedes that he remains haunted by events he witnessed in Vietnam, including the attempted suicide of one of his platoon members. In addition to mental trauma, Ransom also suffers from Parkinson’s as a result of Agent Orange poisoning. Ransom left the Marines in 1973, finishing his degree before going to work as a high school teacher. He returned to Florida A&M University to earn a master’s degree before going to work for the university as an agricultural technician. Then, he went to work for the Florida Department of Children and Families, a subsect of the Department of Health and Rehabilitative services, where he stayed for thirty-three years investigating child abuse and working with delinquent youth. At the time of this interview, Ransom remains involved in the local Veterans of Foreign Wars chapter in Monticello, Florida, where he is surrounded by a community of veterans with similar experiences.





Keywords: [Tallahassee, Florida, Vietnam War, VFW, Black history, military, Marine Corps, Florida A&M University, Agent Orange, education, teacher, advocate]



AAHP 710

Interviewee: Ben Ransom Jr. Interviewer: Megan Pitt, Aanchel Shah Date: August 4, 2019



	P:	So my name is Megan, I go to UF and— S:	My name in Aanchel I also go to UF.

	P:	Yeah so we’ll be doing the interview right now, let me start. First— okay sorry so we have these forms here that say you agree to participate in this interview and that it will be posted on the drive that people can access and view it, researchers or as he said the library of congress for veteran affairs so if you could just fill this out that way we do it before the interview and then we don’t have to do it after. I have a better pen. So if you could write down your name right there. So write down your name here, print it and then your signature here. Thank you. That should be it, thank you. Perfect okay so we’ll begin kind of reintroduce ourselves. My name is Megan Pitt with the Oral History— Samuel Proctor Oral History Program.

	S:	My name is Aanchel Shah with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program.



	P:	And today is August 4, 2019 and I am interviewing Mr. Ben Ransom Jr. Ransom Jr. at the veteran foreign— the veteran— what is the name of this center?

	R:	Foreign war.



	P:	Veteran Foreign War Center. And we will begin by asking: could you tell us when and where you were born?

	R:	I was born in 1949 here in Monticello, Jefferson County. P:	Okay so right here in Monticello?

	R:	Yeah in this county, yeah.



	P:	Okay, could you tell us a bit of how you grew up? What it was like growing up?





	R:	I was born and raised on a farm that’s basically what we did, farmed, during my growing up here. When I became a teenager we went to work in Tallahassee on summer job, but basically just that cycle of working in agriculture and maybe go to Tallahassee to get something to do better from time to time.

	P:	Okay, did you have family in Tallahassee?



	R:	No, well I have family scattered all over the place but none that I could’ve stayed with when I had family in no place.

	P:	Okay, and then when did your military service begin?



	R:	My military service began in 1970. I went to high school here in Jefferson County at Howard Academy High School, that’s the old Black high school and from that I got out of school in 1968 and from that I went to Florida A&M for two years and the I joined the Marine Corps after two years of college and I served in Okinawa and ended up in Vietnam where I was just about to finish my tour of duty over there and then I came back to states and I was station at Parris Island, South Carolina.

	P:	Okay.



	S:	Yeah, I was just going to ask what did you end up studying in college?



	R:	Social sciences, social studies. I got an undergrad degree in history and political science and in [19]78 I think I got a graduate degree in applied social science.

	S:	Very cool.



	P:	What made you originally join the Marine Corps?



	R:	Well I wasn’t doing so good in school and every Friday I think we would get these draft notices in the mail saying it had gone to a lottery system then saying your





number is coming up and rather than go through that every week I decided just to join up. I thought I wanted to be in the Marines instead of the Army or the Air Force or the Navy and I joined up and I enjoyed my tour and my service and the Marines.

	P:	Could you tell us a little more about those first years in the Marines?



	R:	They were rough. I spent some time when I first got out of boot camp, we went to Camp Lejeune in North Carolina where we did advanced infantry training and advanced training and that basically prepared you for Vietnam cause prior to [19]70— prior to the [19]70s we had no idea when we were getting out so they prepared us for it and most of us did that did go, that went in from [19]70, [19]75 and then they kind of stopped Marines from going over there. As being in combat goes. And I served just about a year— not a year but a little six months in Okinawa, Japan. I did a lot of travel with the Navy, Marines are transported by the Navy, on their ships so I did a lot of traveling in Asia. In Vietnam I was a supply administrator, mechanized supply administrator and we went on patrol from time to time but we didn’t have a combat role and stood guard duty. That was [inaudible 7:00].

	S:	What was your experience like travelling through Asia, you were just talking about earlier?

	R:	I loved it because we had spent little time in the Philippines and Japan and Thailand and Hong Kong and I believe Singapore if I’m not mistaken. We spent most of that time in those ports. Maybe a couple of weeks to a month but we





spent most of that time when it was down south in the Philippines. Down south I mean in Vietnam we came back to the Philippines.

	P:	Where there any culture shocks you experienced?



	R:	Oh yeah, in Okinawa, Japan that’s what it’s called now, most of the people are little people. Of course, I would say that anyway because I’m six feet, most of them never seen someone over six feet, most of them were and it caught you by surprise because they were small people compared to American.

	S:	How did you feel? Did you experience any racism there in Asia during this time or did they—?

	R:	Not really, you had groups of soldiers, of Marines went to particular bar, one particular club and you had Blacks and others would go to different clubs. That’s the way they worked there. I go in certain places and I just don’t go in another place cause you’re likely to get in a fight. That’s basically all the racism you went through where there’s certain clubs that Blacks frequented and certain clubs that White frequented.

	P:	What about the local people, did they react to having Americans stationed nearby/

	R:	Not really, it was just a normal thing for them. Now when we went to [Inaudible at 9:41] Hong Kong it was different because they could tell if you’re Black with light skin you could go almost any place but if you were Black with dark skin a lot of them kind of turned on you, kind of shunned you and then I noticed that.

	P:	So you noticed you were treated differently than—





	R:	Yeah I could have had a buddy— I had a couple of buddies that were darker skin that was [inaudible at 10:17] when they passed by certain folk do a frown and I passed by and laughing hey hey hey. I kind of understood what that was all about but that was the only kind of racism we faced and Hong Kong is still— was a British colony at that time and you find a lot of Brits there and I think they probably conveyed that idea and notion more than anybody else.

	S:	So they were colonizing at the time you were there? R:	Yeah, I think they were still under British rule.

	S:	That would make a lot of sense with colorism.



	P:	So while they’re in these different countries what specific role were you playing in the military? What the direct tasks you were completing?

	R:	Making sure that administer, I mean supplies were properly sent out or properly received in. It’s called— it’s not just in supply but it’s called supply mechanization, mechanized supply administrator and that’s basically what we did. Made sure everything was where it was supposed to be and ordered supplies and sent out supplies, dispersed out supplies. Materials, not the whole tanks and guns but other stuff.

	P:	Were there any instances when something went wrong?



	R:	Oh yeah, in boot camp we had a guy who his wife had wrote a letter that she had left, she was going to leave him and that he might as well not come back. In boot camp, this guy shot part of his liver off in the bunks next to me. That really took us for a loop. And in Vietnam, not in Vietnam, but in Okinawa while I was serving there a guy got both of his legs chopped off with a supply— I mean with one of





the big machines while I was sitting on the back of a truck. Both of his legs was cut off. And we in Vietnam you see a lot of bodies come in in body bags and go out. You try to tune that out as best you could but it affects you, even now. I find myself running through the jungle and wake up with cold sweat.

	P:	How did you mentally process all that trauma at the time? How did you deal with that?

	R:	You just try to tune it out as much as you could. I never turned to drugs but a lot of the guys turned to drugs to kind of tune it out but I basically tried to just tried to tune it out and thought I was doing a good job at it until about a year or so ago.

Then I came out with Parkinson’s, early stage of Parkinson’s and high blood pressure, not a diabetic yet but I’m anchoring on it and anxiety attacks from time to time. Up until a couple years ago I thought I was one of the ones that came out lucky but I said Agent Orange still grabbed us from time to time.

	P:	Could you share a little more about Agent Orange and what everyone thought about Agent Orange at the time?

	R:	We didn’t think it was a big deal because they sprayed and defoliated the jungle and made it easier for you to see the enemy from the air or even from the ground and we didn’t really see any effects on it until after the war was over then folks began to— before the war ended they didn’t take it serious as it was. Folks were saying that they were sick, getting sick because of being involved in it, they didn’t take it serious until after the war. Then they began to really focus in on it and find out that it did have an effect on our nervous system primarily.

	P:	So what did being in the military teach you about yourself?





	R:	I’ll tell you one thing, it makes you grow up fast. I would recommend it for any kid other than wartime to get an experience such as that because when I went in I was a wild young man and when I came out I was a disciplined young man. It teaches a lot of discipline, I have to give it to the military, it teaches a lot of discipline.

	P:	What did you do after you came back and do you know what year that was as well?

	R:	I came out in [19]73. I finished my two years of college that are before I went in and I graduated and interned at the local high school and I was hired by the local high school. II worked for about a year and went back to school and got my masters in [19]78 I think and I went to work at Florida A&M for a year as an agricultural technician. I left there and went to the state of Florida department of children and families. It was the department of health and rehabilitative services at that time and I ended up staying there for thirty-three years. I investigated child abuse, I’ve seen some terrible things that— post traumatic stress syndrome also is one of my ailments. I saw a lot of terrible things that people did to children during the time and also I served as a family service counselor, children delinquency counselor. Prepared kids for court and I also did that for dependent kids as well as the delinquent kids and the last ten years of work I worked with adults. Adult abuse investigation and [inaudible at 17:44] in checking abuse cases in the community with adults and aging people.

	P:	How do you think your experience in the military helped you in your career in the department of children and families?





	R:	Oh yeah, it taught discipline and a lot of these places you have to be disciplined. You have to see things and become numb to them and that I guess I picked up that from the military. To be numb when I see certain things, like a baby getting his thigh broken by a disgruntled mother, mad because her boyfriend left her with the baby and I saw a kid with the toes burned off because of a disgruntled mother. I guess that probably have some negative effect on me as well, seeing children die and those kinds of things. But the military helped me cope with it. I guess I learned that from the military, coping skills.

	S:	When you came back, were you treated differently than before you left? Do you think such as like the way you were treated or the respect you were given or any of that in terms of like here Florida?

	R:	No you didn’t get any respect when you came back from Vietnam. Came back from any part of the services any place during that era. It was just negativity everywhere but I guess the hippies and the other folks were on the right track, protesting to get us out of the war and we eventually got out of it. I think it kind of leveled out.

	P:	Did you have a support system when you came back or during your time in the military?

	R:	No I was basically a support system. I’m a minister. I was basically a support system for a lot of other guys. A lot of them came to me crying, I don’t know what I’m going to do I need to get home and see my wife. I need to get home and see my children and I kind of supported them and kind of let them lean on me as a crutch and kind of helped them out I think.





	P:	Yeah, could you talk a little more about that, any specific instances?



	R:	One buddy I had when we came back from Vietnam— well before I went over he was in Okinawa he was married. I didn’t get married until I got out of the service all together. But he would often come to me crying and saying he doesn’t know what’s gonna happen at home. He doesn’t know when he’d get home and a lot of— ladies should not write their husbands or boyfriends and tell them they’re getting another man and a lot of that was going on during that period and it’s hurtful. It’s harmful. Now because you talking about guys going facing a bullet on the other end of the spectrum and he’s got other things on his mind, anything is likely to happen.

	P:	What do you think made you serve as a minister to your friends?



	R:	Well it was actually a conscientious objective when I went in but I went on. I didn’t want to go to Vietnam but I finally decided to go and not as an infantry person but as a supply administrator and I didn’t mind going in. I think every place I went I had welcome arms. When I served in Okinawa and Vietnam my executive officer was a Florida State alumni and when I came back and went to Perris station in Perris Island, South Carolina my executive officer was a FAMU alumni so I— and every place I went I had— I guess they found out I was a minister. I had folks with open arms to support in any way they could. And my Master Sergeant told me when I was thinking of heading out to Vietnam, said “Ransom you don’t have to go, you don’t have to, if you don’t want to go you don’t have to go. I won’t make you go.” I said, “No top I’ll do what I can,” and from there we left.





	P:	What training did it take to become a minister and when did you receive that training?

	R:	I just became a minister; I was a minister before I went in or right at the time of going in I was a minister. No particular training other than a few courses in religion but I was just a called minister.

	P:	Was your family religious growing up?



	R:	About normal, they’d send us to Sunday school and church just like bout any other family that did.

	S:	What was your denomination, if you had one? R:	Missionary Baptist or Baptist you might say.

	S:	Is there a big community in this area or at least was there one? A big Baptist community in the area you grew up in?

	R:	Yeah, primarily. I would say Baptist and Methodist was probably the biggest two denominations that we attended, that the community was involved in.

	P:	And then going back to your family, did they raise you with any encouragements to go into military service?

	R:	No.



	P:	No, they were against it or—?



	R:	Yeah, yeah my father was adamant about it, “You’re not going to the military,” he said “You’re going over there and get killed son I don’t want you to do that.” But I just felt I had to be a man. I needed to get out in order to be a man. When I first got there I was hoping they would send me back for some kind of disqualification but they didn’t. I went on in and went on through the three years.





	P:	What was the journey like? Staying with the military for three years? R:	What was it like?

	P:	Yeah just continuing on even when it was hard.



	R:	After the boot camp and after the stint in Vietnam that I stood, everything was okay. They began to get back to spit and shine. Everything had to be shined and when you’re over there you were scuzzy looking, never got a haircut, never got a shave unless you wanted to but when we got back to the stateside you had to.

You had to shine your boots every day. You had to have your hair groomed and that’s probably, most of the reason I just got out and decided not to make it a career. I was supposed to go to officer training school but I didn’t and I’m glad I didn’t I just can’t imagine going back [inaudible at 26:04]

	S:	After having gone through the experience is there anything that you would’ve done maybe differently or perhaps if you were in the same situation or if someone else was in the situation you were in when you first started what advice would you give them?

	R:	I think I would’ve gone through officer training course before I went in, which was offered but I didn’t I decided to go on in and do that later. If I had gone in in officer training I probably would’ve been a general by now. Been out by now, I know I’d been out by now and that’s one of the— but the thing about that, you had to go to Vietnam in order to be a company commander or a company executive officer. You almost had to go to Vietnam and it’s a saying went around saying the most dangerous thing in the Marine Corps were the second Lieutenant with a .45 pistol because he was fresh out of school and he didn’t





know his head from a hole in the ground and if he didn’t have a master sergeant or a gunnery sergeant to lead him around, to show him the ropes, he wouldn’t know anything and with a .45 if he’s in the bushes he shoot at anything.

Sometimes his own men get close to being shot. I’ve never seen one shoot anybody but that’s one of the sayings they have, he’s the most dangerous thing in the Marine Corps, second lieutenant and .45.

	P:	Do you remember what made you choose not to do officer training? Since it was offered at the beginning?

	R:	I was just tired of it like I said it was spit and shine and you saw so much stuff going on. It was a dog eat dog world. Everybody trying to step on everybody to get ahead and I just, being a minister, I just couldn’t handle that too much longer. I thought I handled it well until all these things began to come in only in the last three or four years.

	S:	Did being in the military give you a different perspective on politics or government?

	R:	I always had a fairly middle of the road perspective in politics. You see some of the folks not standing up for the national anthem like the ball player. I can’t handle that because this old glory flying in a foreign land was the most beautiful thing you could ever see and I just don’t see where not standing up for the flag as the national anthem would— it should be a written to protest. They have the right to protest but they shouldn’t do it on the flag and the national anthem. Those are the most beautiful things in a foreign land you could come upon.

	P:	What are the ideals of America that you appreciate the most?





	R:	Freedom just to do anything you want to do. It’s up to you. I think that freedom extent goes for everyone, extends out to anybody who is willing to work hard for it.

	S:	Do you believe going in the military helped kind of strengthen those beliefs that you have?

	R:	Oh yeah, oh yeah, oh yeah. It helped me keep a very positive view of America and what America stand for and you can’t pick that up if you never been out of the country. been in a foreign war, associated with a foreign war, you can’t pick those things up but once you’ve been in those kind of situations you can pick those kind of things up. You understand why the soldiers cried when they— national anthem is played, when the flag is held.

	P:	Is there a good community of veterans now, has that kept you grounded with these ideals?

	R:	Yeah I think this group here, veterans foreign war chapter that we serve with here in Jefferson County you find that there are few— well the most people in them is Vietnam vets and we pretty much have strong views about America. Strong views about the flag and strong views about the national anthem.

	S:	So obviously you didn’t serve in like the more recent wars but do you think more or less the ideas are still the same [inaudible at 31:52]?

	R:	What do you mean by that now?



	S:	As in like I don’t know how to phrase this question. I guess the reason for fighting and the way people come out of the war from those kinds of things— kind of emotional sentimental emotions.





	R:	Yeah all the guys always said that you’re fighting to keep yourself alive and that’s basically what you’re doing when you’re going to the jungle or going in a war zone. Your trying to stay alive yourself even with the wars that are going on now, you’re trying to stay alive for yourself. And my views are basically still strong pro- America.

	S:	I guess if you maybe have any contrast from the wars that you have served? R:	Any what now?

	S:	Any contrast? Any differences? With anything has changed from you know the [19]60s, [19]70s to 2000s in terms of war?

	R:	Oh yeah things have changed drastically since I came out of the war. People’s ideas are different. They don’t feel that they should serve America as we did during our time. They don’t feel that way. Should be obligated to sign up for the draft or sign up at the local board, local military board at eighteen, young males are forgetting to sign up for the military or sign up for the local draft board. I don’t think young ladies are yet but the young men are.

	P:	Yeah not yet, so you said in 1973 that was when you left the military? R:	Yes.

	P:	What year did you enter the military? R:	[19]70.

	P:	[19]70 okay. Did the Civil Rights Movement like start in the [19]60s to the [19]70s have any impact on you?

	R:	Oh yeah, oh yeah. I held high views of civil rights and folks often say, “you in the military how can you hold high views of civils rights?” They’re both intertwined,





we were there to protect civil rights and others felt that they didn’t need that type of protection but that’s what we were there for, protecting their right. Their rights. Not only trying to stay alive but we were there protecting their rights to protest.

Their rights to choose whatever they want to do.



	P:	Were you involved in anything after you came back in 1973? Civil rights related?



	R:	In community civil rights activity, I was involved in it. I’ve been involved in those kind of activities most of my days since the military. Community development, community leadership and the various organizations, civil as well, church organizations.

	P:	Could you explain a little about community development, what it meant to you?



	R:	Going through to help people take pride in their community, take pride in their community activities. Joining clean up and joining— learning how to sign up for voting activities and these kind of things. Participating in political campaigns and helping others participate in political campaigns such as getting registered and these type of things. I’ve been very active in the community activities, church activities, civic activities, such as Veteran’s Foreign War, the American Legion, and I’ve been involved in certain other civic activities that help the community grow. That helps support the community, various activities to help folks when they can’t afford to bury their family members or something of that nature, we’ve been involved in that activity that support that.

	S:	So like along those lines what did the election of President Barrack Obama mean to you and your community here?





	R:	Okay, what his coming into office meant was a dream fulfilled to me and we never expected it, not in my life time. I expected it maybe in my children’s lifetime but not in my lifetime. And it was a dream come true and it just showed that anybody from anywhere can accomplish unmeasurable goals if they try hard enough at it.

	S:	Did the community here organize for him?



	R:	Oh yeah, that grassroots was all over the community, all over the state, all over the nation really.

	P:	Has that generated more community activism since Obama’s election?



	R:	Yeah, I think it did but the last election we probably didn’t use it but the mechanism is out there to get different folks elected but we just have to use it. We have to get back on folks and teach them how to and show them how to use it and I think that’s where we fell short in the last election. I’m a democrat of course.

	P:	Do you engage in these political discourse or conversations with other veterans here?

	R:	Do I engage in them?



	P:	Yeah do you have a lot of conversations about politics here?



	R:	We sometimes have talks about certain issues but we don’t get too political in our organization, especially the American Legion and Veterans of Foreign War. We talk about ideals and trying to get folks to vote no matter who they vote for. Just trying to encourage them to get registered and vote. Not so much along party lines that much.





	S:	Is this county overall pretty red? Pretty Republican? R:	It has what now?

	S:	Is Jefferson County more Republican leaning?



	R:	No I think we have more Democrats here than we do Republican. Probably like 50—40.

	S:	And what is the racial demographics here if you happen to know?



	R:	We probably got about fifty percent maybe [inaudible at 40:21] Whites, thirty percent Black and twenty percent other.

	P:	I think that brings an end to our questions, is there anything we didn’t touch upon that you would like to add or talk about?

	R:	No I think y’all have went over things pretty well.



	S:	Well on behalf of the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program we thank you so much for taking the time to tell us your story, we really appreciate it.

	R:	I hope I helped a little bit. S:	Yeah, thank you so much.





[End of interview]





		Transcribed by:	Amanda Lorenzo, November 7, 2019 Audit-Edited by:	Sandra Romero	March 31, 2020 Final edited by:	Sandra Romero	August 18, 2021