AAHP 093; Walker; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 093 Willette “Jackie” Chisholm Walker African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Anna Brodrecht on August 7, 2010 57 minutes | 43 pages



Abstract: Willette Walker was born and raised in Gainesville, Florida, and attended Lincoln High School. Her parents got married at the ages of sixteen and twelve; her father worked as a plumber and owned land out of town that the family kept cattle and goats on, and she talks about their overall family dynamic in the household. Ms. Walker relates that she had been selected to integrate Gainesville High School, but she decided she didn’t want to do it and eloped instead, getting her GED later. She talks about her experiences with education, and the differences that she sees in the school system today. She also discusses the role of religion in her life growing up, which mandated a particularly strict code of conduct. She reflects on the ways that some things which were prohibited by the community years ago may now be unfairly stigmatized out of context. Ms. Walker describes what it was like to live under segregation in Gainesville, and talks about her involvement in the Civil Rights Movement, the lack of knowledge among current generations of icons like Fannie Lou Hamer or songs like the Negro National Anthem, and the persistence of racism. She also relates more information about her family, and her connections to other people at the family reunion where the interview takes place.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Lincoln High School]





























For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 093

Interviewee: Willette “Jackie” Chisolm Walker Interviewer: Anna Brodrecht

Date: August 7, 2010



	B:	So you’ve got a little list of questions, but I’ll kinda—I’ll use it as a general guide of things that we’ll make sure we get asked, but mostly it’s just a conversation. Just tell me—if there’s anything you touch on, even if it seems like it’s off the subject, you can—

	W:	Just go for it, huh? B:	Oh, yeah.

	W:	Okay



	B:	And so, what we’re mostly interested in is just what it was like growing up African American in Florida.

	W:	Oh, boy!



	B:	Are you from Florida? W:	Mmhm, Gainesville.

	B:	Oh, good! Okay, cool! Yeah, so where do you wanna start? Describe your house, that’s a great—

	W:	Where do I start? Well, we lived on NE 3rd Avenue, off of 15th Street. In our house, I don’t think we had as hard a time as some Black people did in the area. We weren’t rich or anything, but we were pretty comfortable, and I wasn’t hungry. I’m the youngest of nine children, and my father was a preacher and a plumber, and my mother was a nurse. So, we had—you know, we were kind of okay. We lived in a house that—we had two houses, actually. We called it old house and the big house; it was two next to each other. It was kind of a shotgun house, I suppose. Kinda straight through, big rooms—and it was dark in the back; I





remember that, I don’t know why it was so dark in the back. But the house next door, I remember my father built it, because my mother had an old folk home. That’s what she did, she was a nurse at Alachua General Hospital, but she also had an old folk home, that’s what we called them. And she had maybe—

	B:	Was it an all-Black facility? Or was it Black and White? W:	All-Black.

	B:	Okay.



	W:	Oh God, no! It couldn’t have been all Black and White, baby! [Laughter] No! B:	Because this would have been before segregation really—?

	W:	Yeah. Well, I’m sixty-one. I’ll be sixty-one in September. So, it’s been fifty years ago at least. And she had maybe ten or twelve patients at a time. And they were usually, I guess what we would call Medicaid patients now. You know, they just were subsidized from the state or whatever. But it was a nice neighborhood to grow up in. 15th Street was kind of the line. Because my father’s best friend was an old White guy, his name was John Ward. He was a judge. And he would come to our house almost every morning for coffee. And it was so embarrassing to me, because my father would take us to high school, and some days when he was late, Judge Ward would take us. And this old White man would take us to school in a truck. And it was embarrassing, for to see the kids, you know, let them see you get out of the truck with this old White man. But— [Laughter]

	B:	Would they talk about it at school and talk about—?



	W:	They would tease you sometimes about it, your old White grandpa or something, you know, something like that. But actually, growing up wasn’t bad. I went to





Duval Elementary School which is down 8th Avenue. We had to walk through the woods to get there. It’s a wonder we didn’t—because we had to cross a, like a canal, and we had planks that we would walk across to get to the other side. And it’s a wonder we didn’t get killed, because it had to be snakes in there and stuff. But it was fun. You know, it was all in growing up. And then I went to—at that time was the new Lincoln High School. The one out on Waldo Road, they’d just built that. I can remember, though, the Woolworth store downtown, the Five and Dime.

	B:	I didn’t know there was a Woolworth’s in Gainesville.



	W:	Mmhm, it was right on the corner of University and Main Street. And we couldn’t eat at the counter, I do remember that. And there was a store that was called Wilson’s Department Store. And the only kind of stockings that Black people could wear were called red fox stockings, that was the only color—like, nylon hose? And my mother would go to Wilson’s to get red fox stockings. We’d have to buy them, like, by the half dozen. They’d be folded very nicely in a little box and stuff, and we’d go downtown. Going downtown was a big thing. We walked from out East Gainesville to downtown on Saturday mornings.

	B:	How far was that?



	W:	Let’s see: from Main Street—we were on NE 15th Street and 3rd Avenue, so maybe twenty blocks or so.

	B:	That’s a long way. W:	It was hot. [Laughter]

	B:	Especially in the heat!





	W:	It was hot. Yeah. And we’d—



	B:	Because was public transport available then in Gainesville?



	W:	I don’t know, because I never really relied on public transportation—I guess it was. I’m sure it was. But we always had cars. Although my mother would leave home driving and come home walking a lot. She ran into the back of the highway patrolman one year; she was the worst driver in the world. [Laughter] But my father would tell us not to get in the car with her. But most of the time, we had transportation, so we didn’t rely on the buses.

	B:	And now your mom driving, would that have been normal for a woman to drive back in the day, or—?

	W:	Yeah. Well my mother was a little bit different. I always think that my mother was way before her time. She was a very innovative woman. She was a fantastic seamstress, and she would make all of her clothes—I mean really gorgeous clothes, and hats, and purses. And she played piano, she played guitar; she’d do anything. We’d come home, and the whole house would be rearranged. Might be a grand piano in the front room. [Laughter] And she—I remember, my father would sit on the side of the bed at night and say, “I’ll give you a quarter if you go in there and tell her to put that thing down.” She’d be playing the guitar. She just was weird, my mother was eccentric. Extremely eccentric. But a very smart woman, a very bright woman.

	B:	Did she finish school? Did she get the chance to finish high school?



	W:	My mother got married when she was twelve years old. She married my father when she was twelve years old.





	B:	Really?



	W:	And they were married—



	B:	How did that happen? Was it arranged by the family, or—?



	W:	No, I don’t think it was arranged. Kids just got married young. She married him when she was twelve, and my father fell dead two days before their fiftieth wedding anniversary. Yeah, so they raised nine children, and I understand that she had a couple miscarriages and stillbirths and that kind of thing. But my father raised my mother, literally, and spoiled her quite a bit.

	B:	How much older was he?



	W:	Not that much. He was—she was born in 1910, he was born in 1906. Yeah, so just a few years older. My father was a plumber, and he was one of the first, if not the first, Black plumber in the state of Florida. Yeah. So like I said, we didn’t do too bad. I remember when they were going to integrate Gainesville High School, and a girl named Sandra Williams, and Marcus somebody, and Joyce Kirkland, and I were chosen to integrate the school, but I decided I didn’t want to do it. I got married when I was sixteen. I kind of ran away and got married. But—

	B:	And never finished high school. Did you ever finish high school?



	W:	I finished—no, I didn’t finish high school. I eventually got a GED. Then I got a nursing degree, I’m a registered nurse now. I was a little bit of a black sheep in my family, I was the wild one. It was interesting being raised in a small town, and the daughter of a preacher; and having had so many siblings who came before me, and people expected a lot from me, that I didn’t want to be good.

	B:	Right, I think that’s—





	W:	You know?



	B:	I think that’s a common feeling of children that are—especially as a young— W:	Yeah. I didn’t want to be good, I was definitely a rebel.

	B:	Want to create your own path.



	W:	Yeah, for a long time I was quite a rebel, but I kind of went full circle. I think I’m pretty much settled now. [Laughter] And what else you want to know? What else you want to talk about?

B:  Let’s see. Well, we can go back to before integration. And tell us about food, and where did your food come from? Because you grew up in Gainesville, so did you have a farm?

	W:	We grew up in Gainesville. No, we didn’t farm. My father had cattle, and he always owned property up in Alachua and High Springs, and he had cattle up there, and goats, stinking goats. And we would go up there—in Copeland, he originally came from Copeland, you know where Copeland is?

	B:	I don’t, no.



	W:	Copeland is, like, out 39th Street, like going to—I’m trying to think of the little town now. If you went off Waldo—you know where the sheriff’s department is on Waldo Road, on 39th? If you go down Waldo Road to 39th and make a left turn— depends on which direction, right turn—it’s past the sheriff’s department. There’s a little settlement out there where we all basically came from; it’s called Copeland. There’s an old family cemetery there. And it was basically Patricks, McKnights, Williamses, Chisholms—which, I’m a Chisholm, and who else was out there? I don’t think any Chestnuts are out there. Might be one.





	B:	There were some Williams here earlier with the Watts party.



	W:	They all kind of intermingle, that’s who’s out in Copeland too, the Watts. Yeah.



They didn’t—that graveyard would be interesting, too, for you guys to look at. It’s more or less still a family graveyard. My brother, we just buried my brother out there about three weeks ago, and my son, I had one son that I lost twenty-two years ago. And my parents are buried there, my siblings are buried there. But they come from out in what was called Copeland. And, so my father didn’t farm, he just had cattle. He did go see about his cattle lands, and—

	B:	Okay, and it, was that to raise and sell, or was that the family would save them? W:	To raise and sell.

	B:	Okay.



	W:	Yeah. We—



	B:	So, most of your food would have come from a grocery store, or a market, or—?



	W:	Yeah, we’d have a little garden. You know, grow some collard greens or something in the backyard, but not really to make a living. No. Like I said, he was an old country preacher. And at that time, preachers didn’t get paid. They go something called “pounds.” You know what that is?

	B:	No, I don’t.



	W:	It’s where the people who farmed would bring you—instead of taking money home on Sunday from church, you’d take a couple of chickens or whatever they raised. That’s what they would bring. That would be their offering. So whatever they brought, it might be ham, or vegetables—they canned vegetables and stuff—and that’s what you got instead of money back then for preaching.





	B:	And so, that was enough to feed the family, though.



	W:	Oh, yeah. Well, I’m sure that was an enormous help. And my mother would can stuff and, you know, I guess all old folk did that, I don’t know how to do that. But that was basically it. I remember having to walk to school. Bussing wasn’t a big thing then, I wish it wasn’t now. But I think bussing’s been terrible for the Black community if I can add that.

	B:	Oh, please do! And explain.



	W:	Because when I was growing up, the teachers in the Black community had a vested interest in the children. And you knew them. And if you didn’t behave in school, they’d tell your momma. Probably by the time you got home, your momma would know. And they just—they had a real vested interest in it. And then we started shipping kids all over the place; nobody knows the teachers, the teachers don’t know the community. I’ve all always felt like if education was poor in an area they should’ve bussed the teachers, to send in better teachers, rather than taking the kids all the way across town. Look at how expensive bussing is, and that stuff!

	B:	You know that’s a good point. I’ve never thought about that. W:	So I’ve just never—

	B:	Because that’s the way it was in the old days, wasn’t it? That a teacher would come from across the city or somewhere into Gainesville and live in the community, and so she would have tied living in the home of the student almost.

	W:	Right. She knew the community, yeah. When I started going to school I can guarantee you that three out of every five teachers I had, they had either taught





one of my siblings, and they knew my parents. And it was just—the school was a part of the community. It was the community. And I think that made a big difference in children, I really do.

	B:	And I’ve heard people say it wasn’t schooling, it was education. So— W:	It was education.

	B:	It wasn’t just teaching mathematics or reading. W:	Taught you how to behave.

	B:	Exactly.



	W:	Exactly. I think kids now are just growing up; they’re not being raised. They just grow up, get older every year, but they’re not being raised. And it was a big deal, because, you know, how you were taught to say, “Yes ma’am,” and, you know, whatever. I can remember this old lady lived on the corner from us, Mrs. Forster. And she lived in a two-story house, she could see everything. So we were behind my neighbor’s house smoking when I was a kid, and boy, here came my momma around the corner! Because Mrs. Forster had seen us down there, and she told my momma. But people looked out for you in the community. And everything.

Now if you do it, the parent wants to shoot you for coming and telling them something. But I think the whole, I think the schools were very much a part of the community, a very strong factor, influence, in the community. And now you send them over to wherever. I mean, kids from East Gainesville going way over here, nobody knows anybody, teacher doesn’t know anybody, and doesn’t care! And not that I don’t think that teachers are not good people, because they already have a very hard job. I would not deal with children. I would do old people, I don’t





do children. [Laughter] But, their job is really cut out for them, you know? It really is hard work to be a teacher now, because you don’t have that connection with the family and the community. So.

	B:	And now, as growing up as rebel child, do you see a little bit of that happening— like, you know, you were one of a kind in your family. Then, do you see a little bit of that rebelliousness in kids today? Is it—would you call it the same kind of rebelliousness, or is it just a lack of the same kind of infrastructure that you had growing up?

	W:	I don’t think it’s the same kind of rebelliousness. We wanted to party. We just wanted to go out and have a good time, you know? Smoke a little marijuana. And kids now want to kill you! Good lord! [Laughter]

	B:	[Laughter] Different kind of illegality, huh?



	W:	We just wanted to fight and beat you up a little bit, they want to shoot you! But no, it wasn’t any heavy drugs. I guess older people would’ve said then that the marijuana was heavy drugs, you know. But no, it wasn’t—it’s vicious now. These kids carry guns, and—

	B:	Is it really? Because you always hear that on the news and things, but I didn’t— I’d like to hear the voice from the community-

	W:	The community?



	B:	Is that true that there are murders and—



	W:	But it’s kind of all over. I live in St. Petersburg now, and it just blows my mind that, here recently for the last month, there’s been several police shootings, where the two policeman, they got killed down there recently. Policemen just got





shot the other day. Everybody has a gun. Everybody has a gun! You know, you used to have a good fist fight, a little rumble in the street, and dust yourself off and move on. But now, there’s a good chance you going lose some blood when you walk away now. I think kids are angry. I think they’re very angry.

	B:	At what?



	W:	I don’t know. I don’t know at what.



	B:	It seems like the last generation has a lot more to be angry about, you know? I mean maybe it’s the legacy that, the legacy of thinking things should be good now, but there’s still a lot of that racism and things.

	W:	But I think they have a responsibility to make them good. And racism is very much alive and well, it’s very much alive and well. But I also think that—let me back up a little bit: I left home when I was sixteen, I got married when I was sixteen. I made some very bad choices, but they were my choices. And I don’t hold anybody responsible for that. And in the end it turned out pretty good. I came out pretty good. But the kids now want to blame, somebody want to blame the White man for where they are, and that’s not true. And racism is still very alive, but they have to take some responsibility, too, for their own outcome.

	U1:	I definitely think they’re looking for someone to blame for where they are.



	W:	Exactly. And there are some legitimate reasons. But, again, you just have to make a choice. You have to make decisions about what you’re going to do, and you have to make plans to do that, and take responsibility for that. And I think a lot of them are just waiting for somebody to give them something.





	B:	Do you think there’s something that can be done? Like a leader that can take hold, or some think—do you think Obama’s election is going to change things, or—

	W:	No.



	B:	—give a good example, or—?



	W:	No, because Obama’s not a Black president, and we don’t look at him that way in the Black community. He just happens—he’s the president of the United States and happens to be a Black man. I don’t think anybody—I haven’t felt like because if we put a Black president in the office, that all of a sudden life is going to be wonderful for Black people. No. It’s just a president who happens to be Black. I don’t expect any more from him for Black people than I expect—matter of fact, I expected more from Bill Clinton; he’s blacker than Obama! [Laughter] Oh, my friend John says—we on our way to drive cross-country, he say, “We’re going to go to the first Black president’s library.” And I say, “Bill Clinton’s library?” He says, “Yeah.” [Laughter] So, I don’t expect any more. I thinks there were some Black people who did, who thought, “Oh, the whole world’s going to change for Black people now.” But I never thought about that now. It just was time for a Black man to run for president, but he’s not a Black president, he’s president who happens to be a Black man. And that’s—

	B:	Okay, well what’s the difference? How is Bill Clinton more of a Black president than [inaudible 16:36].

	W:	Oh, Bubba’s my boy, I love him dearly! Trust him, I—but we just kid about that. He’s just a down-home boy, you know? And if he could run for president again,





I’d vote for him. I knew he was a snake in the beginning, so when he bites me again, what can I say, you know? I just, I love him.

	B:	[Laughter] So, there’s a feeling that he’s a Southern guy, he understands— W:	He’s a Southern guy—

	B:	But not your traditional redneck, like, yeah, “Confederate Flag, yeah—”



	W:	No. But I think he knows Black people in a different way, and knows the culture of Black people in a different way than a Bush would. He’s just a down-home— and maybe that’s due to being a Southern boy. Maybe it does have to do with that. But trust me, Bill Clinton’s blacker than Obama. Yeah. So.

B:  That’s something to ask in future interviews. I’ll keep researching this. You know, you get kind of a different—I’ve heard this opinion before, that it’s like, “Well, you know, he’s a president that happens to be Black,” and then other people are like, “No, he’s going to change the world.” So—

U1:  I think it’s more than just him.



	W:	But I think he’ll make a major contribution. I think it’ll be years we realize what a good president he is. But I think he’s going to make a major contribution to changing the world, but I still don’t think it’s because he’s a Black president. I think he’s a fair man; he knows politics; he’s diplomatic; he’s articulate. And I think he’s looking in the long run for what may be best for the country. And some of the changes seem very difficult right now, but I think he’s trying to look far enough ahead to see the outcome. And I think he will make a major impact. He’s just going to be one of those guys that we’re going to look back in history and see what a major impact he made on history. I’m surprised they haven’t killed





him; I’m surprised nobody’s killed him. Yeah. That surprises me. Because I really thought that, even after the election, I personally thought there would be rioting in the streets. But I hope he’ll be okay.

B:   I hope so, too.



W:  And I’m sure he knew that that was a chance he took. B:  Yeah, taking risks?

W:   Yeah. When he did it.



	B:	But he’s just got such a lovely family, you know? I think even people that were kind of skeptical in the beginning are falling in love with the family. Yeah, he just seems to have so much fun with them.

	W:	He’s a smart fellow; he’s a smart young man. You know? So, we’ll give him a chance.

	B:	Yeah. Well, tell me more about what you—as far as religious affiliation, or—yeah, I know you’ve got a lot of history of religion, being a preacher’s daughter, so—

	W:	Oh Lord, I was born with the Holy Ghost, trust me! [Laughter]



	B:	What’s the importance of religion to your family, or the African American community [inaudible 18:56].

	W:	Oh, to my family in particular, we come from a extremely strong religious background, extremely strong. Which can be a good thing, and can not be a good thing. For me, as I grew older, there was a lot of guilt involved because of things that I was taught. I know better now. A lot of things I know better now. But I was raised Pentecostal background, and it was—we were very limited as kids. I think that’s why I left home so early, because we couldn’t do anything, you know?





And you couldn’t go any place; you couldn’t go to football games. Or actually, you couldn’t listen to the radio. But my sister who was away to college bought me and my niece a little transistor radio, and we’d hide it under the bed. And late at night, there was a station called Randy’s out of Nashville, Tennessee, that would play the blues real late at night. And we’d turn the transistor on and hang over the edge of the bed and listen to it. And another station—The Big Eight, in Jacksonville—that would play rock-and-roll, Elvis Presley and stuff, and we would sneak and listen to that.

	B:	Why were you not allowed to listen to it? What about it was secular, too secular? W:	It was of the Devil!

	B:	Oh, okay.



	W:	God, didn’t you know that? B:	Was it the lyrics?

	W:	I mean, no, it was of the Devil, and we were going to have— B:	—or the establishment that it was founded in, or—?

	W:	Well, it was—well, when it came to Elvis, it was the bumpin’ and the grindin’.



Okay?



	B:	B.B. King?



	W:	It was just music of the Devil, you know? They just—it just wasn’t the thing to do.



You know, and I love the blues till this day. But it was sacrilegious, and just the way it was. That’s just the way you were brought up. You didn’t do that. We, Sundays was just—we couldn’t—my mother would cook dinner on Saturday nights, because most of the time we were in church all day Sunday, anyway. And





if you any cleaning, ironing, and whatever you had to do, you had to do it on Saturday. Couldn’t do it on Sundays. And we’d go to Sunday School, and chances are somebody—we had church at eleven, somebody somewhere had something at three o’clock, and then there was YPWW at six. And then there was a night service after that.

	B:	What is YPWW?



	W:	Young People’s Willing Workers. It was a—I think Baptist people call it BYO—B- Y-something. But it’s geared to teenagers and stuff like that, and pre-teens and stuff.

	B:	Oh, okay! Like youth groups.



	W:	Like a youth group, right. Right. And I think my father, as a preacher, didn’t believe everything he preached, in the sense that a lot of rituals and stuff—like the music: he didn’t think I was going to go to Hell for listening to the music. But that’s what they said in the church and all that, and—

	B:	And his family was the example for the congregation.



	W:	Yeah. And he—I mean, I can remember my mother would not wear her clothes above her elbow. No slingbacks, you couldn’t wear your toes and your feet out to church and stuff. And to this day, I won’t wear sleeveless clothes to work or church. But my daddy knew. And people—oh, God forbid you colored your hair or you put lipstick on, or paint your fingernails! But, like I said, my daddy knew you weren’t going go to Hell for that, but it was just kind of the way you did things, you know? And it was hard. I think, again, a lot of people are still—have a lot of guilt when it comes to doing right and wrong and that kind of thing. I think





that’s one of the biggest things that, in the Black community, that the church does, is instill a lot of guilt in people. Yeah.

	B:	Do you think that—has that waned in the more recent years? W:	Definitely. Definitely so.

	B:	So you think maybe the guilt might have been helpful in keeping the people friendly to each other, and—

	W:	I think a lot of it came out of ignorance. And today people don’t necessarily read the scriptures, they study them. And they study them sometimes from a historical perspective. And a lot of things were just rituals and things in the community—we couldn’t go to the ballgame. Okay? And people learned that it wasn’t a—there’s nothing wrong with a ballgame. It was just back at that time, the atmosphere at a ballgame in the Black community was an event. You had the gamblers there, and the guys that were selling moonshine. It was the atmosphere, it was the environment there; it wasn’t the ballgame. You know, and people would say, “Oh, it’s a sin to go to a ballgame.” Wasn’t a sin to go to a ballgame. Like shooting pools, “Don’t go to a pool hall.” There’s nothing wrong with shooting pool. But there were a lot of shady people in the pool hall. So, I think people have learned now, it’s nothing wrong with these things. I mean, you can find shady people in a restaurant, anywhere. So, I think people have learned better that a lot of it was just because people were ignorant and didn’t know better. And they had these circuit preachers that would come in and teach Hell and brimstone. And a lot of people couldn’t read, so they didn’t know how to go study for themselves. I think about Jim Jones and all those people he took and drank that stuff. But people





didn’t know how to study for themselves and to understand things. And they listened to somebody who passed a bunch of old traditions down through the years. But I think the guilt factor is not as bad as it was, because we don’t teach kids the same thing. Our kids go to ballgames, go to movies. We couldn’t go to the movies; what’s wrong with going to movies? You look at the movie on TV, you know? What’s the difference? So we don’t hold all that stuff over people’s heads anymore. So, I think the guilt factor is a little bit better. And not only that, kids speak up now. I wouldn’t dare speak up then, you know. They’ll say, you can say, “Don’t do this,” and they’ll say, “What’s wrong with that?” I wouldn’t dare ask my momma what was wrong with that. Just, “Yes, ma’am,” and move right along!

	B:	So what changed? What makes it so that kids today are more vocal, more willing to speak up?

	W:	And I don’t know if it’s a good thing, though. But I think it changed because when I came along, my mom wouldn’t let me say anything back. I said, “Gee, if I have kids, I’m going listen to my kids.” So it kind of eased up through the generation, you know? And it got better. A lot of it—I don’t know, I don’t know if it’s gone too far or what, you know? You don’t know where to draw the line. You don’t know where to draw the line. Because kids now just outrageous, too. But again, my grandma probably said that about me.

	B:	I know. I know. The previous generation will always say— W:	Yeah, probably outrageous. Right. Always says something.





	U1:	Do you think when you rebelled when you were sixteen, did you still go to church in the same way? Every Sunday, spend the whole day at church? Or did you view, like, religion differently?

	B:	Yeah, was it about religion or the social scene? Because—



	W:	I’ve always been—and some of my friends remind me of that now, some friends that I’ve had for thirty, forty years—my faith has always been a very strong part of my life. Extremely, extremely part of my life. Even when I was bad, you know, somehow I knew there was a God somewhere. And I certainly hold Him responsible for getting me through some things that I went through. But no, I didn’t go to church all the time. And I do enjoy going to church. I still love to go to church. But I didn’t go like I did; we went to church all day Sunday, we went to church Tuesday night, we went to church Friday night, and anything in between that came up, yeah. But I still go to church, I think it’s a very strong foundation in any culture, I really do.

	B:	And community.



W:  Any community. And I don’t care what your faith is, you need to have something to believe in; it may not be the same thing that I believe, but somebody needs to be grounded by something. So I still enjoy going to church. But no, I got married, married a real, live cowboy. A roping cowboy.

B:   [Laughter] Where did you meet him?



	W:	He was from Marion County. I met him in church, believe it or not. But the boys would hang around the church because that’s where, you know, the good girls were.





	B:	Oh, okay!



	W:	And I married him when I was sixteen. Moved to a little place called Boardman.



You know where Boardman is? It’s just across the county line, just past Micanopy, the county line into Marion County. And boy, that was a totally new experience for me. I’d been exposed to things, I just had never been exposed to the real world.

	B:	Like, rural stuff, or, you know—?



	W:	It was, Boardman was a little town that had maybe four paved streets, and maybe six juke joints. Okay? And from Friday night ‘til before day Monday morning, you could barely drive through there. You’d have to walk the streets, there’d be nowhere to park. Because the juke joints were open twenty-four hours a day from Friday night to Monday morning. And it was like Hell. It was like, I finally got there! Yea! [Laughter]

	B:	[Laughter] This is what [inaudible 27:46]!



	W:	And we would party, and party, and party, and party! And I married this cowboy who’d get drunk all weekend, work like a dog all week. It just was a totally different life for me. It was, “Oh my God, this is what people do in the real world, where you can come out the house on Saturday night,” you know? Because I couldn’t do that. And it just was a new experience. And I had my son right before my eighteenth birthday. Everybody thought I was pregnant when I got married, but I wasn’t, I had been married almost a year before I got pregnant. And I wound up being divorced at twenty-one. Re-married the same man when I was thirty- eight. Hm. We had the one son. My son, we lost our son—





B: Your firstborn. W:  My only child. B:  Okay.

	W:	Uh-huh. And then I remarried his father, and when I got through grieving my son’s death and realized that I married that man again. Although we were together longer divorced than we were married, and we were always good friends; we’ve known each other since I was in fifth grade, and his family’s still very much my family. He’s died, he’s passed on now, too. What else? But it took me—I was, I said I was a wild child, because nobody knew where I was half the time. I’d call home when I’d be in New York, or I’d be in Detroit, or I’d be somewhere. Anywhere.

	B:	Did you have family in all those places that you went to visit, or you just wanted to go?

	W:	Mmhm, somebody said, “Let’s go!” Allrighty! [Laughter] U1:	How did your parents react to that?

	W:	Oh, God! I think my mother was glad I was gone! [Laughter] But my father kind of prepared me for life, and I really appreciated that. My father never told me what to do. He always listened to what I had to say, and he would say, “So, what are you going to do?” You know what I’m saying? He never tried to think for me; he taught me how to think for myself. I’d call him in the middle of the night slinging snot and crying, and he’d listen. He said, “Well what you going to do?” You know, “What you think you should do next?” So, I appreciate that. He taught me how to solve my own problems, because he knew that he would not always be there. He





was a wonderful father, wonderful father, but he knew he wasn’t going to always be there, and I needed to know how to make decisions for myself. But my mother, my mother and I didn’t have the best relationship. That’s a whole ‘nother thing; I need to lay down on the couch to tell you that story. [Laughter] But, my mother and I did not have a very close relationship at all, not at all. My sisters, we laugh about it now, but when we talk about it, people would think we had a totally different set of parents.

	B:	Really?



	W:	Mmhm. Very different set of parents. Because I was so much younger. My— between the brothers and I, my sisters have children older than me; but the closest sibling older to me is eleven years older than me. And by the time I came along, there was nobody in the house. And I didn’t like my mother, and she didn’t like me. And we just didn’t have a relationship. Now my older sisters would talk very differently about her, but I just didn’t know that person. And, you know, we sat down one day, and I told them I didn’t like her, and “I don’t know who you talking about.” And it’s all out on the table; and we laugh about it now. We do.

But, I didn’t like her. [Laughter]



	B:	Okay. So. Interesting. But your other friends would have had pretty close relationships with their moms, or—did you form relationships with other people’s moms because your mom wasn’t so close to you?

	W:	No. My sisters, my oldest sister’s eighty-two. My sister here is eighty. And the next one is seventy-four, I think. So my two oldest sisters, especially the one was here, was more like a mom to me, although she didn’t live around us, but she





was more like a mom. But to be honest, I kind of felt like I grew up without a mother, almost. My mom and I were in the same house. I don’t ever remember having a conversation with my mother. I don’t remember having one conversation with my mother. I can remember her fussing about stuff. I do not remember having one conversation with my mother. But my father—I was such a baby’s girl, I slept in the bed with my daddy until I was maybe nine years old. And my father would go to preach at churches, and I would lay down in the back seat of the car like I was hiding. And it was a long time before I realized that when I jumped up and said, “Boo,” he always had a suitcase for me, so I think he kinda knew I was in there, in the back of the car, you know? [Laughter] But I was definitely a daddy’s girl. My daddy would comb my hair and put my little bows in there. And I can remember him taking me to churches, and I would have to sit in the pulpit with him. But—and I used to make excuses for her, that she was through having babies and blah, blah, and along I came, and I just got over it. I’m over it, I don’t—you know, I’m not hung up about it. Took a psychologist to do that, but I’m not hung up about it. But that’s just the way it was, you know? She did the best she knew how to do.

	B:	Well what did your dad teach you about growing up Black? Did he teach you tolerance or, you know, in the time of segregation did you ever—

	W:	The only thing I really remember—my daddy, one time he worked for the department of transportation, and I can remember the story—boy, I haven’t thought about this in a long time! But he had said he’d gone to work and he spoke to these White people, and they done speak something. And he said, “I’ll





never speak to White people again as long as I live.” And just a few minutes later this White guy came in and said, “Hey Jim, you know, how you doing?” And he said it kind of taught him not to judge people overall. I can remember a time, though, when my father died, that my sister and I were going to the airport to pick up my brother from Baltimore—had to go to Jacksonville then—and our car broke down. And this White couple stopped to help us. And we needed water for the car. So, I got in the car with the guy to go to the service station—we were out in the country road—someplace to get water, and I remember a man asking him, was it for me. And he said, “No.” And he said, “Well, good,” because he wasn’t going to give him water if it was for me. I remember that. And actually, we were— we grew up, like I said, 15th Street was kind of cut off. And White people lived over there. But we played with White kids in the street; you know, hopscotch, and marbles, and that kind of thing. I don’t ever—I think that thing about the water was the first time that I personally experienced anything that made me stop and think about it.

	B:	What year was that? The water incident?



	W:	My daddy died in [19]73, so that’s when it was. I can remember where I live now, St. Petersburg, in Gulfport, there was a sign that said: “Niggers read and run; if you can’t read, run anyway.” I remember that sign.

	B:	Wow. Do you know whose sign it was, or—?



	W:	No. I do, I can still remember going to the doctor’s office and having to go around the back, the Colored [inaudible 34:49].

	B:	When you were a child, or—?





	W:	Oh, yeah, when I was a child.



	B:	Do you remember, like, the state of the office that you were in? Or was it, did it look dilapidated, or did it seem pretty state-of-the-art?

	W:	It was pretty state-of-the-art. I can remember this doctor would always give us pills. He’d have these big bottles of pills. He didn’t give prescriptions; didn’t know what the hell he was giving; he’d just pour something in a little envelope and say, “Take this.” [Laughter] And we had no idea what it was. But that’s what we had, this big bottles of pills on the shelf, and whatever was wrong with you, he’d give you the pills. But we would have to go around the back door to go to the doctor. And everybody can remember—my age can remember—the water fountain thing, that was—.

	B:	Right. Was it a Black or a White doctor that you would see? W:	It was a White doctor.

	B:	Always a man?



	W:	It was a man, mmhm. B:	Okay.

	W:	The only Black doctor at that time was Dr. Banks. He was the only Black doctor.



And he’d make house calls, he’d—they’d come to your house.



	B:	And he was in Gainesville? W:	Uh-huh.

	B:	Yeah, were house calls more common, or did you go more commonly go to the office?





	W:	If you were sick, house—I guess for a routine thing you’d go to the office, but if you were sick, house calls. They’d come to your house. And midwives. I can remember the midwife coming when my sister-in-law was having a baby, yeah. I remember that.

	B:	Was she a White or a Black lady?



	W:	She was Black. Her name was Rosa McKnight.



	B:	Okay. One of the McKnights from the smaller town?



	W:	Yeah. From out in Copeland. What else what growing up Black like?



	B:	What about voting? Did you ever—well, do you remember the first time you voted, or who for, that you can remember?

	W:	I remember we had this kind of underground movement here in Gainesville. I remember that, because I remember—do you know the book, the, Kahlil Gibran, the—oh God, what’s that book? I can’t think of the name of it. I want to say Passages, but that’s not the name of it. But there was kind of an underground movement in Gainesville with the Civil Rights Movement. And I can remember doing that. We wore long dresses and had afros, and smoked a little marijuana. And somebody had a little printing shop somewhere here. It was like—it was near the university. Boy, that’s so vague to me! But we would write, make these little flyers and stuff, and put them out. And—

	B:	Like little, like origami flowers? W:	Flyers!

	B:	Flyers? Oh!





	W:	Like “peace” or something and, something like that, you know, some weird stuff.



We would—



	B:	Okay. And they’d give ‘em out on the street, or did you have to be kind of quiet about—

	W:	We would just leave them out on the streets somewhere, didn’t hand them and pass them out, you know, stand there and pass them out. But I can remember doing that. Gainesville—and I think it had to do a lot with the university though, too. Because I still feel like had not White Americans not gotten involved in the Civil Rights Movement, that we may still been where we were. If it were not for White college students—it wasn’t until White college students started getting killed that people started paying attention to what was going on in the Civil Rights Movement. Same thing with AIDS. As long as it was homosexuals; it wasn’t ‘til some White housewife in Minnesota got AIDS that someone started paying attention to it. So I think because of the culture in Gainesville, the overall culture with the college students, I think it made the whole Movement a little bit easier for everybody.

	B:	Okay. And were you aware of that during the Movement? That you knew you needed White students? Or was it something you realized later?

	W:	I think with some of the early incidents, I was aware of it. I was aware of it. It was rough. We were not as involved as some other states, although we were. It was hard to look at on television. And you still had people who would say ugly things, but you still got people who’ll say ugly things to you, you know? I’m a nurse. I work at a nursing home, a director of a nursing home; I still get called a nigger.





All the time. And, you know, it’s what I do for a living, so I just said, “Thank you ma’am, hope you have a nice day.” And you move on.

	B:	And these are patients that would call you an “n.” W:	Oh, yeah. They still can be quite abusive.

	B:	How do you handle—you just say, I’m just not going to ever help you again!



	W:	[Laughter] You can’t—you have to handle it. Because you can’t—it just will wear you down. You know, you have to do it. A lot of patients have family members. You know, people just ugly. There are just ugly people in the world. And it’s something, my boss is twenty-eight old, and never been exposed to anything.

And I’m trying to help him learn that—you know he’s the one, “Well, there’s no racism”; there is racism! You may never experience it. It’s still very much alive.

	B:	Is this a Black guy or a White guy? W:	White guy.

	B:	Okay.



	W:	And, you know, tell him about the nurses’ assistants sometimes. “You don’t realize how much abuse these people go through every day.” And it’s hard to clean somebody’s behind while they calling you a nigger.

	B:	Yeah.



	W:	It’s hard to do. But you do it, and you chalk it up, and you just move on. You know, go to the next one.

	B:	You chalk it up to who? How do you rationalize it in your head? I can’t imagine—



	W:	You know, years ago, I was taking care of a lady, and all she would ever say was, “My daddy hung a lot of niggers! He killed a bunch of niggers!” And she was





this little dried-up thing, you know? And I can remember one day—I don’t know what it was—but I said something really ugly to her, and it bothered me. And I know she was senile, and really didn’t understand. But I went back the next day and I apologized to her. I mean, but she didn’t understand my apology. She was too crazy to know that I apologized; but I needed to. To do that. But, a lot of them today, they do understand. I had a guy come to my office and would talk about another nurse: “I just went down there and told him he was a nigger!” And I’m looking at him, “Oh, did you?” [Laughter] “I’m so sorry you’re having a hard time; there something I can help you with?” You just do it; and that’s what I do for a living. Now, do that on the street, it might be a different story; we might need to have a little conversation. But that’s what I do for a living. And it comes with the territory, you know? So.

	U1:	Especially with the generation you’re working with right now. That’s the way they were raised.

	W:	Exactly. Yeah, that’s what they remember.



	B:	Yeah. That’s why I was wondering, if that was part of the rationalization, was just this was the way they were raised, and they’re too ignorant to understand—

	W:	Well you’ve got some, though, that—the youngest person in my facility is twenty- four years old. And the other’s a hundred and four, the oldest one. So you get anywhere in between. I mean, I’ve been called names just about by—I tell you what: I was going to K-Mart’s about two years ago, and I was going in the store. And this guy, a little White guy and his little kid, they were coming out. And they got into a pickup truck. And by the time—before I get to the store, they were





circling the parking lot. And the little kid—who must’ve been three, four—was hanging out of the window. His father got near me twice before I got in the store: “Nigger!” So, he was teaching him to do that.

	B:	Yeah, that’s disgusting!



	W:	He was teaching him to do that. So it’s still—it’s just very much—it’ll go away. But it’s going to take a long time. It’s going to take a long time for it to go away.

	B:	Yeah, we’re fifty years in the making now.



	W:	And I tell you what: I would rather deal with the kid hanging out the window calling me a name than somebody sitting next to me at work with this undercover thing. Even if you hate me, tell me you hate me, and let’s get it over with. You know what I’m saying? I know who I’m dealing with, and what I’m dealing with.

So. I’d rather deal with a straight out racist than an undercover racist. You know? So.

	U2:	Baby, I’m going go sit in the car and run that air. W:	Okay.

	B:	[Laughter] He’s like, I’ve had enough! W:	That heat getting to you? Okay.

	U2:	Yeah, you can stay as long as you want. And when you come, I’ll be there. W:	Okay. Alright, I won’t be long. Yeah.

	B:	Yeah, let me pause this real quick and then I’ll— [Break in recording]

	W:	But I just think it’s something to deal with on an individual basis, you know? B:	Mmhm, okay.





	W:	Some of my best friends are White! [Laughter] B:	And goodness, we’ve come a long way, huh?

	W:	Yeah, we have. John and I have been friends since 1973. And it’s just—I tell him he’s my best girlfriend, just happens to be a man. It’s a totally platonic relationship, but he’s the best friend I have in the world. And, like I said, since 1973. He came from Las Vegas to my family reunion; does every time.

	B:	Wow!



	W:	Yeah, so. You know, I know some Black people I don’t like. So I just take people for who they are.

	B:	And so, and voting? Do you remember the first time you voted?



	W:	First time I voted. I don’t remember the first time I voted. I know I was an early voter, though. As soon as I found out I could do it, I did it. Because when I think about how many sacrifices were made so that I could do it—that people died so I could go and—and early on, as soon as I was old enough and could vote, I did vote. And it amazes me. We just had, in February, this Black History Week— Month or whatever. But, it amazed me on my job. I tried to talk to kids about how much they don’t know about Blacks in America today, and the sacrifices that were made. So I try to pass that on to people. And it just blows my mind! They have no idea. They take a lot for granted now, you know? “You couldn’t do that, and it wasn’t so long ago.” We’re talking fifty years! That’s not a very long time. A fantastic time to live in history. Somebody went to the moon, the Berlin Wall came down, we can vote, and so many things happened in the last fifty years.

Cell phones, my God! But I don’t think kids know about their history.





	B:	Because it’s just one little—in the history books, its one chapter in a twenty- chapter book.

	W:	George Washington Carver and a peanut and something else, and— B:	And then Civil Rights all together, as if that’s—summarizes—

	W:	As a matter of fact, John and I are leaving tomorrow. We’re going to Birmingham, we’re going to Little Rock, because we want to go to the Bill Clinton Museum and to where those girls got bombed in the church years ago. And then, we’re going to go to Oklahoma City to that thing, too. But there is so much history. I’ll tell you what I’d like to do, what I’m trying to do: I’d like to work on a book—just a little handbook, more or less, nothing—no big reading. Just some facts. I’ll tell you what came up: I asked somebody if they knew who Fanny Lou Hamer is. You know who Fanny Lou Hammer is?

	B:	Mm-mm. [Laughter]



	W:	You ever heard, “I’m tired of being tired?” You ever heard of that phrase? B:	I don’t think so.

	W:	During the—I say [19]68 Convention, but I don’t think it was—when they wouldn’t let the Democrats be seated, the Black Democrats from Mississippi or somewhere, and they wouldn’t let them be seated at the Democratic National Convention, and she wanted seats. And they tried to compromise and give her one or two seats, and she addressed the Convention. And that term people say, “I’m tired of being tired?” That was what she said: “I’m tired of being tired.” She was very articulate; you look at a heavyset dark woman, you never think she— but she was very articulate when she addressed the Convention. And they still





didn’t give them the seats, however. But, you know, we started talking about people and I say, “Well, do you know who So-and-so?” And they go, “Who? No, blah, blah, blah.” And then I say, “Do know what the Black National Anthem is?” “No.” It just amazes me. Do you know?

	B:	I don’t.



	W:	Got to educate everybody. U3:	“Lift ev’ry voice and sing.”

	W:	There you go! That’s it! “Lift ev’ry voice and sing.” Yeah. But it amazes me that the kids—yeah, right! They take so much for granted; they just really don’t understand the sacrifices that were made for them to do just the least little thing!

	B:	Yeah, and speaking from this generation, I know what I learned in classes. And it’s the same thing you’d learn every class: “Oh, there was the 16th Street Baptist Church bombing, the bus boycotts in Montgomery, the sit- ins in Greensboro; you learn these, like, factors, they’re little facts, you know?

	W:	Yeah.



	B:	But it really is; it’s one chapter in a whole big long book on American History.



	W:	That’s it. But I’m just, I’m slowly trying to gather some facts and some dates, like the first one that did this, that; went to a college and did this. We have a cousin in Virginia who was the first Black woman—I think woman, period—postal driver.

So, you know, it’s a lot of little stuff.



	B:	We have a DVD called “Remembering the First” that one of our—have you met Marna back at the post?

	W:	No.





	B:	He’s been working on this project for a long time, and he did a whole series called “Remembering the First”, and it’s all about the first Black person to do this, the first Black person to do this.

	W:	That’s what I would like to do, that’s what I’m trying to gather facts together to do that!

	B:	Let us give you a copy of that DVD so that you can— W:	Oh I would love to!

	B:	Yeah!



	W:	But I think that’s such—just a, nothing big, just a little handbook, some quick reference that people can see. I think it’s so important. I think it’s so—somebody had to be the first to everything, you have to realize that.

	B:	Uh-huh. And they’re often not recognized. We did an interview with the first—I think she was the first Black student admitted to the nursing program at UF, and she had some, like, just intense crazy stories that you would not believe.

	W:	My sister was the first Black nurse that that they hired—at that time it was J. Hillis Miller Medical Center.

	B:	Okay. Which was before Shands. W:	Before it was Shands.

	B:	Yeah. What was her name?



	W:	Edna Blake. She was the RN that they hired there. B:	Is she still around?

	W:	She’s in St. Petersburg, uh-huh. But there’s just so many firsts; and somebody had to





	U3:	Do you know Verdell Robinson?



	W:	Verdell Robinson. That sounds very familiar.



	U3:	Verdell Robionson. She’s in the Black Nurses’ Association. She was a—I think she worked at Alachua General, but I’m not sure.

	W:	Yeah, my mom worked at Alachua General years ago, she was a nurse too.



Yeah, Verdell Johnson?



	U3:	Verdell Robinson is her first and last name. W:	My sisters know everybody, I’ll ask them.

	U3:	She was a Washington. She came to from Bland, up by Alachua. Bland area, where the [inaudible 48:41] lived.

	W:	Okay. I’ll ask my sister, she knows—you know Whoopi comes from out there, too.

	U3:	Right! Whoopi’s one of her relatives! B:	Oh really!

	U3:	Because Whoopi is a Washington. W:	From out in those woods.

	U3:	Well we were-we put a state historical marker out there, and I actually wrote to Whoopi Goldberg, and I said, “Do you mind if you put your name on our marker, because that could bring her unwanted publicity, or maybe she didn’t want to— and she never wrote back.

	W:	Oh!



	U3:	So we put it on there! Silence implies consent, right? [Laughter] W:	Exactly!





	U3:	If she was against it she’d say something!



	W:	Come on, ask me some more. I gotta go. I guess John’s hot and ready to go.



	B:	Okay. Actually we’ve gone through so many of these things; do you care to share your—do you know anything about your family roots as further back than your parents?

	W:	Well I know Ned Chisholm was one of the people that supposedly put a roof on this place. That was my father’s grandfather. We were raised as Williamses. My grandmother was married to this man, James Williams, but she was kind of fooling around with Ned Chisholm.

	B:	Okay.



	W:	So, that’s how I got to be a Chisholm. [Laughter] Somebody said, “One night of pleasure,” and I said, “No, just a couple minutes in the corn patch!” That’s how! [Laughter] Didn’t take a whole night! So we’re Chisholms. And like I said, Ned Chisholm is probably one of the people that did the roof here. I think his mother’s name is Bridget. And that’s about as far as I go off the top of my head. Isaiah just goes crazy, and—

	B:	Oh yeah, I know.



	W:	Oh Lord! You can’t stop him! Let him tell it, everybody in Alachua County’s some kin! So.

	B:	Yeah.



	W:	But—



	B:	Well, what does it feel like being under the roof that—





	W:	It’s fantastic; I’ll tell you what’s even more mind-boggling, I suppose: I think it’s Dudley Farm where they have the old fence and stuff. And I think Elizabeth Chisholm was a babysitter or something, there’s a plaque out there. But to actually touch some of that stuff and know there’s a good possibility that my granddaddy, or my great granddaddy, or somebody—especially, like, the old rail fences and stuff? You know that was hard work. We talking about sweat and tears—

	B:	In that Florida sun?



	W:	Yeah. And to know that, there’s really a spiritual connection to that. Very much a spiritual connection.

	B:	And you feel that when you go to these places?



	W:	Oh, yeah. Definitely so. It is great. I mean, we’ve come—this is my third year here, I think. And it’s just a phenomenal experience, it really is. I wish everybody—I have a cousin in Delaware who can really trace our lineage back to slavery, actually. She has papers where my grandma Bridget and somebody, and her two boys, and old Black somebody were sold for x amount of money, and—it just blows your mind, you know?

	B:	You need to get Isaiah in contact with her; he would love that, wouldn’t he?



	W:	Yeah, they do. They know. They know each other, yeah. And she just has—a lot of things Isaiah has are word-of-mouth from his grandmother. She has a lot of documentation, a lot of paperwork, and a lot—we have a uncle who was hung— the Ku Klux Klan hang him as a matter of fact—in Palatka. Oh, this was where a granduncle somebody—she has a newspaper clipping from that. Somehow, she





got in touch with an old newspaper guy in the area, and he gave her a lot of things from the archives and stuff. So, it really is a spiritual connection. It makes you know where you came from, it kind of hooks you up with somebody, you know?

	B:	Yeah.



	W:	So—



	B:	And especially when so much African American history has been lost, and it’s just because of the slave trades and things like that, and—

	W:	Exactly.



	B:	It gives you something to, like, document. W:	Yeah; it does.

	U3:	And people didn’t want to talk about it. W:	Mm-mm

	U3:	They didn’t want to talk about it. Because the Black history museum that Mrs.



Griffin donated her house for? They were progressive. They Smith-Griffin family; they were looking forward; they didn’t look backward.

	W:	Right; nobody wanted to talk about it! U3:	Nobody wanted to talk about it.

	W:	And see—and that’s a whole ‘nother story. Somewhere along the line, Black people were encouraged to forget they were Black.

	B:	Right.





	W:	You know, you wanted to get into a melting pot, and a this and that, and we start perming our hair, and everybody just want not to be Black anymore. And then the whole Black Pride thing came along, you know?

	B:	Yeah, along came Malcom X. Yeah. W:	But, um—

	U3:	But by then, a lot of history was already gone. W:	Exactly.

	U3:	Nobody knew it.



	W:	Exactly.



	U3:	Nobody talked about it. Just like the Holocaust victims, they don’t talk about the—

	W:	Right.



	U3:	—persecution in Germany. Their grandchildren might see the tattoo, but they say “I don’t want to talk about it.” So, they know nothing.

	B:	Do you remember Roots; do you remember when Roots came out? Did it influence your life at all?

	W:	I don’t—a lot of people got pretty angry! B:	Got angry, eh? Okay.

	W:	Oh yeah, a lot of people got angry! You know, when you think—a lot did. Again, the kids didn’t realize what people had gone through. And these were—you know, I don’t know how factual the book was, but it was a good account of what happened.

	B:	Got angry about what—





	W:	Yeah what happened. And then, but still, you can’t go blaming somebody. I can’t—I’m not going to go blaming your great-grandmomma because my great- grandmomma was a slave; you didn’t do it. The only thing I can hold you responsible for is the way you treat me now.

	B:	Right.



	W:	So a lot of people got angry and, “Oh, the White people did such, such-and- such.” Crap.

	U1:	They just need to break the cycle. W:	Yeah.

	B:	Yeah, and starts with this generation— W:	You know, get over it.

	B:	—if we haven’t already broken out of this.



	W:	You know, and just move on. You know my brother—just buried my brother three weeks ago. And my family now is so blended, until you—I don’t think about it. I had, my grandnephew came out today, he has two kids. His first wife was White. And you look at the kids, and they’re just kids, they’re just family.

	B:	Uh-huh.



	W:	So, you know, I don’t—it doesn’t bother me at all.



	U3:	You know what? When I go to Waldo Road Walmart? Every time I go, I see White and Black kids. White parent, Black parent, and little kids that are mixed.

	W:	Yeah. You don’t know who’s who anymore.



	U3:	Every time I go to Walmart; mixed, mixed, mixed. W:	Yeah.





	U3:	That’s the way they—look at President Obama!



	W:	And people used to do a second look. See, I don’t even do a second look anymore. You see somebody with a White person or a Black person and turn around and look; I don’t even pay attention anymore. Now I know, John and I are leaving and we’re going to Mississippi, Alabama, blah blah blah. So I told him I would lay down in the car if we need to get through Alabama! [Laughter]

	B:	Oh, no! Oh goodness! Oh, goodness!



	W:	Whatever. Whatever. I’m going to go get him. U3:	Are you going to the banquet tonight?

	W:	Yeah.



	U3:	Okay. But do you live in Gainesville? W:	No, I live in St. Petersburg.

	U3:	Oh, okay. Well, the Black history museum, Mrs. Griffin was a teacher in St.



Petersburg.



	W:	What [inaudible 54:52]?



	U3:	At Dixie Hollins? Her name was—well, it’s going to be on 8th Avenue. Claronelle Smith-Griffin.

	W:	What was her first name? U3:	Claronelle Smith-Griffin.

	W:	Claronelle Smith-Griffin. Okay.



	U3:	She taught in St. Petersburg for twenty-five years. W:	Oh really? Oh, I’ll ask my sisters.

	U3:	Dixie Hollins was one of the schools.





	W:	Yeah, Dixie Hollins, yeah.



	U3:	And then somewhere else. I don’t—I can’t completely remember.



	W:	Okay. Well my sister who lived in St. Petersburg for fifty years probably knew her.

	U3:	Okay. I think her students would be interested in coming to this house in Gainesville, and maybe making donations, because we need donations desperately. Because it doesn’t have any foaming, wiring, heating; it doesn’t—it was built as a house, and we have to meet codes for a museum—

	W:	Was she originally from Gainesville?



	U3:	She was originally from Gainesville, and she lives on the site that her parents— her great-grandfather bought in the 1870s. And they built the house originally in the late [18]70s, and kept adding to it. And now it’s a two-story, has a lot of additions.

	W:	We’ll have to finish this tonight. U3:	It’s in bad condition—

	B:	Yeah. Let me get you to—this is a release to say that it’s okay we put it in the archives at Florida; but that doesn’t—we don’t have the exclusive rights to it. If you ever want to use it and if you’re ever going to write a memoir, write your pamphlet like you want to, then you’re, you know—obviously you’re welcome to use it. It’s not just exclusively University of Florida’s, so.

	W:	Okay.



	B:	All right, cool! Thank you!



	W:	Thank you guys, that was kind of fun.





	B:	And what was your name? I missed it. W:	Jackie, say Jackie. My name is Willette. B:	Okay.

	U3:	Williamson



	W:	But nobody knows Willette, they know Jackie. B:	Willette Jackie—

	W:	Walker.



	B:	Oh…



	W:	Oh, Williams—Chisholm-Williams. B:	How do you spell Chisholm?

	U3:	It’s right there on the shirt….C-H-I-S…



	B:	Chisholm! Okay, yeah. I keep hearing an extra “L” in there. U3:	It is an “L”.

	W:	It’s spelled kind of weird—



	B:	Chis—I keep hearing Chis-something extra.



	W:	And sometimes this extra’s not in there, either. Well, I’m gone. B:	Okay.

[End of interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, September 26, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 18, 2019