AAHP 563A; Lewis; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 563A Earsel Lewis Interviewed by Ray Jones on May 26, 2017

50 minutes | 28 pages



Abstract: Earsel Lewis grew up near Philadelphia, Mississippi, and in this interview shares some memories of his father’s life as a sharecropper, but focuses primarily on his military service during the Korean War. That service includes combat experiences in Korea, for which he won several medals including a Purple Heart, and also experiences with racism and segregation stateside and in daily life in the military. He closes the interview with stories from his work in ministry, to which he was called later in life.





Keywords: [African American History; Philadelphia, Mississippi; Segregation; Jim Crow; Alachua County, Florida; Gainesville, Florida; Ocala, Florida; Marion County, Florida; U.S. Military Service; U.S. Army; Korean War]



AAHP 563A

Interviewee: Earsel Lewis Interviewer: Ray Jones Date: May 26, 2017



	J:	So, Earsel, thank you for being willing to participate in this program. It’s to develop an oral history of the veterans who come to Altrusa House.

	L:	Thank you, sir.



	J:	Would you tell us when and where you were born?



	L:	I was born in Kemper County, Mississippi. That’s sixteen miles north of Philadelphia, Mississippi. I grew up until I was about seven-years old, then I moved a little south of Philadelphia, Mississippi; fifteen miles south. Let me explain that, now: my mother’s is sixteen miles north of Philadelphia, my daddy is sixteen miles south of Philadelphia; and half of Philadelphia, White and Black, on that side is my mother’s peoples. Other half right here my father’s peoples. Both of them have—my grandmother was a White Jew on my mother’s side. And on my father’s side, all his people was White, period, see. My grandmother married a Black man, that’s why I got a little bit Black. We don’t have very much Black, because she here, she was White, and then all them on this side was White. I got a love my father had—let me show you something: my father had fifteen sisters and brothers, and all of them have a lot of children. My mother had seven, I think, brothers and sisters, and they all have a lot of children. So, I come from a large family, see?

	J:	A large extended family! Well, you told us about your parents. What were their occupations?

	L:	Farmers! My mother and my father started off as farmers, see. And now, there’s something strange about my mother. My mother was educated, and back there





then, she explained it all to me—us. Back then, children could only go to eighth grade. You couldn’t go no further, see. First, you didn’t have the money. Very simple, you didn’t have money. Now, some people had girls go, but the boys had to stay in the field. We lived in the middle of a cotton field. Old raggedy house in the middle of a cotton field. Our house, you would walk in the front door and see all the way out the back door.

	J:	Now, did you have many brothers and sisters?



	L:	I’m the second in the pecking order of the family. I have a brother older than me, I have a sister and brother younger than me, but I’m the second one.

	J:	How many are there of you? L:	There three boys and one girl.

	J:	And so on. What were you doing before you entered the Service?



	L:	In the cotton fields. See, I grew up, we grew up farmers, worked the cotton fields. J:	In which branch of Service did you enter?

	L:	United States Army.



	J:	And, did you enlist or were you drafted? L:	I was drafted.

	J:	What happened when you departed for the training camp, and during your early days of training? Were they different?

	L:	Yes, I take my basic training at Fort Sill, Oklahoma. J:	Did you receive any specialized training?

	L:	Yes, sir. They were training us to go to Korea, and we had to have all the training, you know, to go to Korea. We had to know a whole lot of things about





Korea, because our platoon sergeant there, he trained us hard. So I asked, “You going kill us before we leave here?” They said, “No. I just come from there.” Can I say what he said? He said, “They kicking ass and taking names. I’mma make sure when you all leave here, I can sleep. I’m going teach y’all everything I ran into, going teach you everything about the book. But when you leave here, I won’t be able to sleep.” Let me tell you something: we had some hard training.

We trained day and night.



	J:	Did you have bayonet training?



	L:	We had a whole lot of training. I said we take the whole lot of training. J:	How did you adapt to military life? Was it easy?

	L:	No, sir. Well now, see, I was drafted; I did it like that, see? My mother and daddy, they sent me a little card, says, “You hereby drafted by your friends and neighbors.” I asked my mother what kind of friends and neighbors I got. But then, I was drafted.

	J:	All right. Did you enjoy barracks life?



	L:	Whew! Let me tell you something. When I first got there, my first night there, they had beds up and beds down—double, you know what I mean. My first night there, I was on that top bunk, and I rolled out the middle and hit that wooden floor down there. I tell you the truth, the boy down below, he jumped up and grabbed me, he say, “You crazy!” I said, “I’m not used to it.” He said, “You take my bunk. I’m going take yours, because you will kill yourself!” I fell on that floor, from way up down on that hard floor! It didn’t hurt, but I was surprised.





	J:	Where did you serve? You served many places, I’m sure. Korea was the major one.

	L:	Right, now let me tell you something, let me tell you this first: I take my training in Fort Sill, Oklahoma. They trained us to go to Korea—for Korea. I went to Korea, spent my time there, and I left there and come back to Fort Carlson, Colorado. In Korea I got—let me explain about Korea, though. In Korea, I got messed up in Korea. Man, you know how I told about, I said when I got there, “Since I’m not going back,” I said, “I’m going send a whole lot of people ahead of me. When I die I’m going take a whole lot of people with me.” I’m not sure, one day I woke up down in the ground, way down in the ground there. I got buried alive, see? And, when I come to down there, the sergeant who taught training my platoons, he said, “If you ever get buried, do this here. See if you can wiggle your fingers. If you can wiggle your finger, all your tendons, only thing is intact, see. Maybe you’re just messed up.” He said another thing, “Wiggle your toes. Don’t worry about it. Ain’t no bone broken.” And then he said, “Pray like hell,” he say, “Because you only have four minutes oxygen down there, that’s all. Just four minutes. Breathe as slow as you can. Try to slow down, try to save oxygen, somebody dig your body; because after four minutes, you become a vegetable. All your brains are dead.” So, I was down there, and here’s what I learned about this here: I told about what I’m going take with me? I woke up down there, nobody down there but me! I said, “Lord have Mercy! I’ve gotten buried! I’ve trained till I [inaudible 6:54], I didn’t take nobody with me!” By myself down there, see? So I’s got quit saying what I’m going do.





	J:	Well, you were in the front lines. So, what sort of combat action did you see? L:	Well, listen now. I was in the field artillery. In front of us, you’ve got the infantry.

You got infantry in front, we sit right back, and we had to report to infantry. We supported them. So all this time, we’d have to come in contact with enemies when they’d overrun the infantry. Then we’d got on operators to stop them. But now, I never had no, what you call, “battle.” We had a lot of incoming rounds on us. They’d drop all that artillery on us. That’s what we had. And they dropped a lot on us, I guess.

	J:	Did you see the Chinese and their invasion?



	L:	I got a chance to see. We called it North Korea; I got a chance to go up on the front up there, and look through those goggles—they had set up a little thing. And I got the chance to fire, work some of the fire from up there. We dropped rounds on them, yeah. We had what you call, this air burst. We had some of that. And I got a chance to see them coming, call for the count, then they dropped the round and just chop them up. Yes.

	J:	What kind of friendships and camaraderie did you find when serving, and with whom?

	L:	Well, let me tell you something: I’m going have to go back a little bit. When I come in the ship, I was in the Black army. That’s how far back I was. You had White on this side the post, and Black on this side the post. We didn’t mix up with them no way. Onliest time I mixed up with somebody was after I got to Korea—I mean, on my way to Korea. It was a little strange for me. First of all, I had never been around White. I had been around all Black. And let me tell you what I said:





when I go through all that hard training, I said, “If we ever get to have a Black president, I’m going leave the country.” There was Black sergeants that were hard on us! Oh, they were hard! And so, my wife asked me after we got the Black president, “What you going to say now?” I said, “Imm’a apologize for that.” [Laughter] But in combat, you worked together, period. You got to work together. You got to be like all brothers, and we were like that. Because, you couldn’t be no other way! You in a combat zone, you had to have someone with you at all times. That’s what had to be done. Somebody’s got to be there. One night, I got to the [inaudible 9:39]. I was a field first. I got thrown in there. I was a field first, so one night, I was in charge of the final bearings. I was a field first. And so what I did, one night—I’d go around and check out, stuff like that, check them out like that. So one night, I went out to check one of these final bearings position, and I went down to his bunk—and you had full guard until they come in and change the guard. You have side guard, and also the guard come in and take people, so the guard puts the men on guard and lets his men go. And I’d just laid down on the bunk, I said, “You mind rushing thus?” I don’t know who all had the rifle. Click! I know what that meant! Somebody loaded a rifle, see? And I jumped down there, say, “What’s the matter?” They said, “This man here refused to go on guard.” So I said, “Why do you refuse to go?” He said, “Look outside, that stuff falling like rain.” Rounds coming in just like rain. He said, “I’m not ready to die.” Here what shocked me: this was a Black man. A White fellow come down off a bunk, put his steel part on, got a ribbon, put his armor on and then said, “Let’s go die together.” That’s the first time they see each other. Messed me up. I’d





never seen that before. I know you supposed to be close; I was surprised. He told him, “Let’s go die together!” They walked him out, that stuff dropping like rain. I was surprised.

	J:	Well now, after you’ve finished in Korea and you came back, the Army was not segregated any longer.

	L:	No, no, no no; let me tell you what happened on my way there. You mind if I tell? J:	Surely.

	L:	Okay, now first of all, Texas: let me tell you something, Texas was a crazy place. Just a mean place and crazy! A lot of time you go to the bus station traveling, that you couldn’t go inside, you had to go around the back. They had a hole in the back where you call in, then they wouldn’t wait on you till they already deal with everybody White, take their meal first. Then, “I want some hamburger,” hand it to you out the hole. So I’m on my way, and let me tell you something: I said, “That’s strange. I’m leaving a country don’t want me, and I’m going to a country I don’t know about, and don’t want me either.” So up ahead, we cross Texas. Tell you what: I went in. I’m dressed; I got all my stuff done. I went in, went around the back got me something. Come back, on my way back, I just stopped in the middle way of the bus and sat down. I don’t know why it didn’t dawn on me, because I know I’m supposed to be in the back. But anyhow, I sat on back there. My mind was somewhere. People kept coming in, coming in, coming in. I didn’t [inaudible 12:17], because I didn’t realize it. So, that’s when the bus filled up with White and Black. And in the Black, you only had two rows back there is all you had. Two. And you had some people standing, peoples sitting on peoples, all like





that to get them all in! But anyhow, I’m sitting there and the bus fill up. They had one more seat left. I’m sitting next to the window. Here a seat right here next to me and nobody in it. So a White lady come back there, she looked to be about her age, and she looked at me, and turned up like that, go on back up front, told the driver. She wanted to make me move in the back, see. The driver come back there, he say—I say, “Before you open your mouth, where I’m going, they don’t picking on them seats. You get back there.” I pulled the thing up. I had a .38 special. I carried it with me all through the military. I said, “You go back there, and you drive this bus. They ain’t picking on seats where I’m going.” He went back up, and I seen the woman out there, and close the door. I wondered why he drive so fast. Oh! [Inaudible 13:16] “Aw, I showed my gun. I’m going be killed. He going die, too!” [Laughter] He drove like that till he got out of Texas! Oh, because he was scared, and I was too, see? Because them people walked around in the state with high-powered rifles like that, all of them. Who would let no Blacks on, see? But they let them on, you had to go around the back, see? But anyhow, I said, “Lord have mercy. I’m going get him killed. I going die and he going die.” But by the grace of God, I didn’t get no—but that’s why, let me tell you something. When I left that and got off the bus, I said, “I’ll never sit in the back no more! I ain’t going never ride the bus and sit in the back.” I didn’t! When I come here, I rode just like all White. I’m with them. I ain’t going back in the back no more. If I can go fight for you, I can ride with you, see? Don’t get me started talking, now.





	J:	And when you came back into the Service in the U.S., the Army certainly wasn’t segregated was it?

	L:	Look here! It supposed to be the Service was segregated still, but White people would mistreat us, and of course then we’d mistreat them. That’s military for you, see. You find a lot of places where a Black didn’t get promoted when he should get promoted, stuff like that. They’d pick—you go through that, I know I went through that. Second time I went to the board and passed it, I was over and passed. One of the master sargent told me one day, said, about a week later, “When you going put your stripes on?” I said, “Man told me I didn’t make it.” He cussed and he said, “I told—you the onliest one passed the board! I ain’t never going through it no more. They pick who they want to put on board.” This is [inaudible 14:50] told me that. “Sergeant, I can’t wear them. I ain’t got them yet.” He said, “Okay.” A lot of Black got missed over like that.

	J:	Did some of these incidents really make you feel terrible?



	L:	I’d feel bad. Real bad. But, there was nothing you could do about it. Because first of all, see, after I was drafted, I reenlisted each time, see. So I had go ahead, would’ve been a good bit of time tied up in there.

	J:	How did you stay, Earsel, stay in touch with your family while you were in service?

	L:	Well you see, overseas, I couldn’t take them. In the states, I could bring them with me, see. The only one place I brought them and had to take them back, I came back to Fort Carlson. Got [inaudible 15:41], and I got out. When I got me a good job working, messing around, on account of my head messing my feeling





in part of the poison dust, we’d make a dust to pour on these trees. And when I went there, I went in the hospital, they call out and come, say it again: “What’s wrong with him is in his head. We can’t do nothing. He got that in the military.” Next morning, I volunteered, come right back in. I left there, I come back to Fort Jackson, South Carolina. I stayed in South Carolina two weeks. Then one morning, they called me, said, “You going to Fort Lewis, Washington.” I got to go from the East coast to the West coast. Now, they give you money for first class, you fly. I’m a cheap man. I’m very cheap. But anyhow, I went out to the airport. They told me how much it cost. I went to the bus station and train station. So, I take the bus. It was cheaper on the bus. And the man told me, he said, “I can put you in Fort Lewis, Washington in four and a half days. I’ll put you on post.” I went and bought me a ticket, and I rode the bus. I rode the bus four and a half days.

Because I could save a little money. I used to be real steady and [inaudible 16:48], I don’t know where I got this from. My daddy and mother weren’t like that. I don’t know where I got it from. But anyhow, I did all my traveling by bus.

	J:	Well, we know you have character, Earsel. You have character. [Laughing] What did you do for recreation while you were off duty?

	L:	Well see, when you off duty, we had a place where you could play different games. Baseball and stuff like that. We had games you could play there, see. Or you could go to town on a pass. I went a few times, but I didn’t go to many times. Because each time I’d bring my family. But I want to tell you about, I brought my family to Fort Bragg, North Carolina. That’s the 82nd Airborne there. By the last orders, which was coordinator of heavy equipment, repairman. We had to





support them. And they were like this here: if somebody sneeze in another state, they’d take a whole thing down there. Somebody call somebody, we’d take a whole thing. I got so tired of that mess! Some more, I’d just send me every now and then. Then, here another thing: when I come out of Korea the second time, I came to Fort Bragg. I got there the first, guy said, “Throw your bag up on that truck over there.” He had all those trucks were lined up, all them bags and peoples. I said, “Where do you want me—” He say “We work now, while we’re boarding, go on and get up, just come back, I’m about to throw your bag up there. So, three weeks we sat waiting. At the end of three weeks, they called, told, “Look, y’all too slow getting ready. Got a unit out of Hawaii somewhere, sent them overseas. So, y’all don’t worry about it.” The next day, we sitting down, eating breakfast. And all at once, there were guards around all over the place. “They’re not our guards.” First off, he say, “I don’t know they’re not ours,” by the time the whistle blows. We went to load up and went to Needles, California. Dust was about that thick. No water there. It don’t rain there. We got out there in all that dust, we trained and trained in all that dust! Dust, and these spiders and rattlesnakes, and all that stuff out there! And then, what’s that bad spider they got—I can’t think of the name. You leave your shoe around down there, they would get in your shoes. So, what’d you had to do? Had to put your shoes on your bed, and to the side, because they didn’t get in them. And had snakes like here and everything, too, dust! We stayed out there. Then we got orders to come back to Fort Bragg. Another time, we’re eating breakfast, and some guards came around. At first, I said, “What he’s—” “Don’t ask me, I don’t know.” But that time,





whistle blowed again. We had to load up and go down to Pope Air Force Base, that’s on Fort Bragg. Went out on Pope Air Force Base, loaded on them big C130s. We still didn’t know where we was going. Didn’t tell. We got way in the air, we going along, and the Captain say, “Now, hear this: this your captain speaking. You on your way to Dominican Republic.” “Dominican Republic?” “They got a coup going on, or uprising. We got to go down and help with that uprising.” I said, “But I don’t care about no uprising down there.” It’s not our business or nothing. But anyhow, we went on down there, landed that night. Got up the next morning, 21,000 troops there overnight. Let me tell you another thing: in my part, I had to support that 82nd. I had also a Mortuary Section and that, like. I’d get [inaudible 20:25] down there. My buddy the next evening say, “Come on, let me show you something.” Them people hitting them boys right here [between the eyes] and here [side of the head]. He say, “They ain’t mess with the body at all!” They was killing them down there! And then we supposed to, he talking about when we go down, you going go down maybe thirty days, and maybe not. I was down there a whole year and left him down there. A whole year, and I left him down there. Now, let me show you something else, too. One of the majors— one of the majors or colonels. Anyhow, it was a major or colonel, can’t think now. I think it was a major. Major, lieutenant colonel, one—come by, hold the word down, and when he left, he said—I said, “How the hell is it I come—you come and see me?” I—because I was just ready to go stand in the meeting. So he come to see me. He say, “Let me show you why I come to see you. You the onliest one out of all these peoples here that went down have a meeting.





Everybody else says ‘yes, sir, yes.’ You know what? You tell me something, you like to tell me why. I respect you. I’m on my way to the Pentagon. Anything you want me to do for you?” “Yes,” I said. He say, “Where you going?” I say, “I’m going to Fort Benning, Georgia. I don’t want to go there, period.” He said, “Don’t worry about it. I’ll take care of it.” Let me tell you something: I left there, went to Fort Benning, Georgia. I was there two months and seven days. And I had one of the best jobs there. I got my wife there; we all went there. I worked at night at the quartermaster laundry for the whole post there, see. I reorganized it so everything worked fine. Got it running just right. I got back in one morning early, went to bed—took a shower and went to bed. My wife woke me up a few minutes later and said, “You got to get up to the First Sergeant. You got to be in his office now. You a day late.” I said, “A day late for what?” She say, “I don’t know, but you better go.” I went to that First Sergeant, he told me, “Look here: you a day late.” I said, “A day late for what?” He said, “You’ve been transferred out.” I say, “What you mean? I just got here.” He said, “That’s right! But, why you a day late? Myself, our company commander, lieutenant commander, and all of them people trying to find out how could they transfer you out and you just got here? We couldn’t find out. The post commander couldn’t find out.” Couldn’t nobody find out where my orders was coming from, how it was taken—it was set up where nobody could stop it, see. They ask me, “Who do you know?” I said, “I don’t know nobody.” I had to say that. I said, “I don’t know nobody. So, where am I going?” “You going to Fort Knox, Kentucky. And you a day late now. You got to take your wife, take her back home.” I had to bring her back to Florida. So I came back, I





had to process out the next day. All them peoples was waiting for me when I got there.

	J:	You had to be flexible, didn’t you?



	L:	Oh, yes sir, you had to be! But there’s something that happened on my way there. I had bought me the Renault Dauphine, few of them cars they sent over from Germany somewhere. I bought one. I liked it because you get 42 miles a gallon. I filled my tank, I’m driving and driving. Now, it shakes sometime, but I’m, “Where’d he come from?” Anyhow, I left from Fort Benning, Georgia. I had to go to Fort Knox, Kentucky I come off one of them turnpike, hit one one of them curves where you come off. And I used to be a fast driver, oh, I mean a fast driver! I come off that hill, woow, here come a curve! And it curve this way, and that way, and curve this—you ought’ve saw me. I stick my head out my car this way, my knees sticking out this—and people behind me, and people coming, all watching me calm down and slow down! I was so scared, I had to go—woo!

Finally, I got down to the bottom of the hill, I got out, I sit like this here. Then people come out real slow, like. I was so scared I was going wreck. And peoples scared I was going wreck, too. Because that car was top-heavy. I was scared.

Lord have mercy! I was scared.



	J:	Well, I know, you finished in the Service as a master sergeant. But here, you collected all these letters of recommendation, that tell you how well you performed all of your duties and so on. But here, you have all of these medals. Could you tell us—I know you said there’s a list of them. But could you at least tell us what some of them are before we end?





	L:	Yes, let me show you this here. This one right there? That’s a bronze star with a V, that’s for “victory.” That’s above and beyond the call of duty. See, let me show what happened. See, that supposed to be a combat medal over there. But me being the color I was, I didn’t get it. I did this in Korea one night; we was firing this way. All at once, rounds coming from this way. Them big rounds, and here they come; big holes in the ground. Then, I was real crazy. I went and told my—they have [inaudible 25:36] I said, “Can’t y’all do something with sll these rounds coming? Can’t you tell us what to do?” He told me, say, “Look here: we need the ordnance; where all these rounds coming from? You go out there and give me the coordinates. I’ll zero in and inform our pilot watch what’s coming.” And he said, “I want you to go and get me this: first, if I’m going to do the ordnance, what angle are they coming in on? I want you to see if they delay or long range.” Long range like here, take the round in. Delay, they come right over here like this here. Long range, hit the sky like this. I said okay. He said, “You got to be careful.” All them be firing; we have to stop firing and get in them foxes, in them bunkers and things, because they throwing a lot of rounds. But see, I’m crazy. So, I say, “I’ll give you what you want.” He say, “I want you to give me what angle they coming on at. Zero in, give me what angle, and I want to know it’s long-range or high angle, okay? I did this here. I got my aim, and so started to approach them. First thing—see, when them people fired a round, they’d never fire two in the same place. We could put one behind in the same spot. So, I’d take my aim and run out there, and every time I run, here it come, and I drop down in they hole. Went like this. I kept dropping down like that until I got [inaudible 26:57]. And then I had





to get on them quick. One time, I was a little slow getting out, and [inaudible 27:03]. That didn’t do it, unh-uh. But I had it down like this. And when I got out there, what I wanted to find, one, just lay it like that. I shut that thing up, had to drop back down again, and hit the owner of the thing. Bam! Bam! Bam! But then I stopped. I had to get up quick, and zeroed in, and I had to get back down in them holes again, when I got it zeroed in, then I turned, went around, come back out, what angle it’s coming on. So I got the two things he needed. I started back, had to jump down again. I had [inaudible 27:33], I looked; then my officer standing there, because he praying for me, too, and I’m praying too. So he say—couldn’t believe that, he say, “I thought you’d be killed before you got back here!” I said, “I almost did!” [Laughter] So I gave it to him. When I gave the information they needed to hear, I went out there and two of them [inaudible 27:50]. Turn the thing on back that direction. And I said, “By the time you get through all this running through your machine and all that, we’ll be ready.” Sure enough, when he got through, and I called them two guns, set them up, and gave fire? Oh, observer tested far for effects. I was dead on target. He said, “Fire for effect.” We fired for effect for a while. We just keep shooting, scouted all around there, now. So then, he say, “I’m set to fly in.” So we came and transferred the gun back to where it was. And we never did get no more of that big stuff. He said, “You all destroyed what we we shoot it at.” He told them we destroyed it. See, we had air observer. Anc he said, “You destroyed one. Don’t worry about it. If you need me, call me.” He went on down to find out some more, and get them going.

	J:	So, you got this medal for—





	L:	So I got the medal for that. I should have got a Medal of Honor for it. See, because White people get it for saving two or three, or something like that. I done saved the whole firing battery. And, oh, how much money all them artillery guns, all them big trucks, all that stuff, I saved all that. And that’s what they give me.

Black.



	J:	Is there another one you want to tell us about?



	L:	I got that Purple Heart for getting messed up down there. When I went there; see, I got my eyes messed up, my arm, shoulder; that’s why she gave down here. I got a bad shoulder, I got a bad head and all that, from over there. This one, tell you—oh, Lord! Now see, some of them, not going remember some of them.

	J:	Why? But not about this one. You—



	L:	That’s when you get hurt. You get hurt, you get a Purple Heart, see? J:	Right. All right, and so on. Now, you had all these in Service?

	L:	All in Service. All different Service.



	J:	And how long were totally in the Service? L:	A little over twenty years.

	J:	Let me ask you: afterwards, after you got out of the Service, what did you do?



	L:	Let me tell you something: first when I got out, I threw all the paperwork away. I had all kinds of since taking all that stuff down. See, I want to tell with you: I put in over twenty years, had never been court marshalled; had never had Article 15; I never been late. Never been. Because my father, when we little; I was four years old, he get you out of bed. Let me tell, he could get up, get you some fresh





air, so I was used to getting up early, see. So I’d get up early [inaudible 30:27]. But okay, now: when I got out of there, I did this—I first got out, my wife and I would go fishing all up and down Florida here. Because she liked fishing and I liked fishing. But anyhow, I got so tired of fishing! We’d go out there, find a place, catch a lot, bring them in, and just, I’d give them to peoples. Then one day, I told her, I say, “I’m just too tired to go fishing anymore!” When I saw my buddy, I got a job working. Used to work at Florida Industrial School for Girls, in Ocala down there. I worked there a while, and boy came in one night; he had the books. He say, “I go to school during the day.” I said, “Look here: I’m going go out there, too.” He say, “You get into class. You military.” He wasn’t military. He say, “You military, you get into class.” I went out there and saw my counselor in the program out there in Ocala. He say, “Yeah, you get in, government pay for all of that. Your schooling. You got two years of school coming.” So, I put in for school, I got school, and they paid for all my books, everything. They pay for everything. Then they paid me, I got $300 a month for going to that. But you had to make good grades, though. When I finished at school, I dropped the job that I had. I went to work, and I started me a construction company—my own. Before I knew it, I had everything I needed; trucks and everything I needed for this. Had my crew and all. And let me tell you something: I was working hard. Oh, that’s hard work! But then another thing: I always said I was going build me a home. “I’m going build me a home.” You know something? I built and repaired, built and repaired homes all them years. Never even built myself nothing. I built a garage; it ain’t been nothing else for me, myself. You remember when the interest rate





went way up so high. All the lost their jobs, committed suicide, killed peoples? Remember when they had that back there then? Well they done sent me, someone had did that. I got caught in it, too; had eighty apartments to build and all that stuff like that. Lost everything. So then, I went to school; I come back, I went to school again. I done been to school for masonry, carpentry, and all that stuff like that. And I take some advanced stuff, like, learn how to read blueprints and plumbing, all that stuff like that. So I come back and went to school, and made good grades in school.

	J:	What kind of school is this? L:	Agrobusiness.

	J:	Agrobusiness?



	L:	Yeah. Something I see about it, because it’s something I’m not supposed to say about it. But anyhow, I’ll tell you agrobusiness. But let me tell you what I find out something: if I were to listen to my father years ago, the way he teaching us, oh, we should all go to the farm? See, my father moved one place, and my father was a sharecropper. When we moved, he’d take out there, when he found what land he going use, he’d say, “Look here, son: we got to get a sample from this here ground here.” But he’d tell us what you grow all—he just tell you what you grow in all them places. And so, when I got in school, we had to go to them farms, we had to get samples, and take it in so they could tell what kind of soil you had, what you could grow, what kind of fertilizer you need. I thought to myself, “If I had listened to my father and quit raising so much sand about being on the farm—.” We worked hard on the farm; you work hard. But now, here I’m





going through the same thing that my father taught us. But anyhow, I went on and I got through the first part of the agrobusiness. Then I quit because my job got so I got so large, with so many jobs, I had to drop out. And then God call me. In the middle of all that, God call me. And when He called me here, I was two years behind on jobs. I had jobs for two years—I had homes build. Some of them I didn’t have blueprint to, and some I did. But I did this here. When God called me—let me show what God—God work in mysterious ways. God called me to minister, I was up there in Philadelphia, Mississippi. My aunt had died. She and my mother looked like twins, and she go out looking like my mother. So I drove hard and went up to be with my cousin at the funeral. Because I hadn’t seen him since we graduated from school. All them years, I ain’t see him. So anyhow, we stay there. We got there, and then next morning he said, “Why don’t you go take over to the pastor down here?” I said, “What you mean, take over?” “You going take over. Get in that pulpit. You take over.” So I did. Got up there, I ran the thing, I went all the way down it. And I’m praying, “Lord, send that preacher, please!” I never did nothing like that. “Please send him.” All at once, hit me like a ton of bricks; I looked around, here he was. I say, “Lord, I thank You. I thank you!” But then I knew that He gave me [inaudible 35:39]. He called me right then. I went through a change up in that place! And so, when you get through that thing, and come down, get ready to go to the cemetery? I told my cousin, I said, “I can’t go with you. I got to go home.” He went—! I say, “I can’t go with you.” So my wife says to me, “What happened to you in that pulpit?” I said, “Honey, that’s why.” She said, “You had a gold crown around the top of your head.” I said, “God





called me to be a minister. We going home now.” And that’s seven hundred and some miles coming back to down here. She gets in, says, “I’m with you, now.” We come back down; we left there around probably 3 o’clock. Twelve o’clock midnight, we sit in Ocala. At twelve o’clock, I’m knocking on the pastor’s door, ringing the door, beat on the—. He come, he say, “What, are you crazy?” I say, “I ain’t got time now. See, God called me to preach.” He say, “Well, don’t tear down my door!” So he went out, told my wife, “Come with me,” he say—him and I went in there. He says, I couldn’t be still; I was all over the place, just like a wild hog. I said, “Call the district superintendent right now!” He say, “That don’t [inaudible 36:45].” I say, “I ain’t got time right. God know where [36:49] call me.” He say, “Sit down!” Oh, man, let me tell you something: I was like a crazy person. But then, he finally sit me down. So, I went there, then I had to go to out to my church, he had to go to my church and check with PPR committee. And they examining the—well, I didn’t realize they had already set me aside. I didn’t know. That’s why they had me doing so many things. I didn’t realize. So, it passed out there. So, when it got to district, it passed there. And district asked me, said, “What you want to do?” “I’m going preach here.” “What, y’all part time, or—?” I say, “I ain’t going no part time with God, I’m going full time!” Send me down to conference down there, and they interviewed me down there. And I told them— they said, “Look here: we going to let you go to seminary, we going pay for seminary for you, and pay for you to get there. That will be all.” I said, “Good.” They said, “What you want to go to?” They had a whole lot of Black seminaries, and a whole lot of White seminaries. I said, “I want none of those.” “What you





mean?” I say, “I want to go to Emory University in Atlanta, Georgia. That’s the best one. I want to go there.”

	J:	The home of Methodism!



	L:	That’s right. And let me tell you something: oh, my goodness! It’s hard. But I did this here; before I went to that one, I had a chance—a friend of mine, Memorial out of Miami, Florida had an extension thing was up in Ocala there. So he, “I ain’t—you ain’t got to go there.” I said, “I don’t mind it. I’ll sit, because I’m going to the Emory one.” Let me tell you something: that school there? Oh, they taught so hard! Water be running down our eyes, and everybody like that, running down ours, too. You could hear a pin fall in the great, big room full of young preachers, old preachers, retired people. And they had—oh, let me tell you something. They taught so good, one day—I’d been there a good while—and one day, I come in, I needed to work. I worked, I went to school, and I worked at night. I’d come off work at 5 o’clock, be home, eat, take a shower, and lay down. My wife [inaudible 38:55] time. Because the job I had would call me in. Someone who wasn’t there; I was so tired, when I see it, I say, “Y’all don’t come; look here: all you do, call me, why you—?” Say, “They all don’t come to work like you come to work, so we not. And so they not going come, we need somebody to be here.” I say, “Okay, but y’all going kill me.” Anyhow, went on to work like that. And then, later on down, one day I come and work like that and my wife said, “This going to be your last seminary class.” I say, “What you mean? I’m getting to like it now because the teacher.” She said, “I got all this down on paper right. Emory University in Atlanta Georgia. All this here. Hand you a check and everything, pay your way,





all this stuff. I’m with you, whatever you want to do.” Because I done got tired of in this [inaudible 39:56], see. I was tired of [inaudible 39:58]. But anyhow, I told them while I was looking out, this was going be my last time here. They say, “What? Where you going off to?” And they say, “Well, okay, we going pray for you.” I told them like this: “Look here, make up your mind. Once they you to take, don’t you—what do y’all do?” And I did. I decided to go. But when I got to Emory University, let me tell you something: that’s only place I seen where every night when you come out of class, you eat, come back, you have people all over the floor working on them things. All upside the board. When the last part of the day, be all out there in the hallway and all in bathrooms, all that stuff, crying, getting all this stuff together. That place is hard! And during the day, you come out of one class, you running to the next class over there. You see people crying. Nobody [inaudible 40:42] them; those come to you crying, too! That place is hard! And I see people writing like this here. Get out there, go on, put stuff in the car and leave. I say, “If you going leave, who called you? God didn’t call you to—.

Once you started, you supposed to—.” They say, “I done got tired of this stuff here. I can’t put up with it anymore.” I said, “Look, I’m going to stay.” I did. But it was hard.

	J:	Well, will you tell us; we probably need to end the interview. But tell us, did—how your service experience affect your ministry?

	L:	Let me tell you something: the same thing I [inaudible 41:29]. One day I was sitting there, and I told an old lady, said, “Why in the world God wait this time to call me?” She says, “Son, He called you when your heart got right.” I said, “I’m





afraid I’m like Paul. I’m unfit, I’m unworthy! Oh, I’m terrible!” She say, “That’s why he called you. You’ve been down the road. You can tell peoples.” Hit me like a ton of bricks. I done experienced all this stuff! I could tell somebody. Because I’d been there for myself. I knew. And that hit me like a ton of—. I said, look here, and sure enough, I’d run into problems that I’d already had, that I could help people, see? But let me tell you one other thing: you reading the Bible. Bible say He told, Christ told them whenever he got through talking to one of them, He said, “Let’s get on the boat and go across to the other side.” And when it got on the boat and got ready to cross to the other side, He was out sleeping there. And a big storm and wind hit him. And the boat was really rocking like that, and the boats was getting full up, that they were throwing some stuff off the boat. And they woke him up, and He say, talking about, “You people of little faith.” He sit up, He said, “Peace. Be Still.” The waves calm down just as quiet as could be.

Now, let me tell you this about the storm: on my way to Korea, we riding on a two-stacker ship. We were way out in the ocean out there, a long ways out. We sit there when the sun shine so pretty right when we sit up on the starboard side.

Yeah, they were fixed it for us to have a movie. We got a great big movie, got the troops all—all the tall people had set against the rail, and the younger people sit in front so everybody can see. All at once out there, that ship rocked like that. I mean, like that! Oh, that scared us! Practically all them people in front fell back on us like this here, and we had to catch all them so they don’t slide through. He say, “Now hear this! Now hear this: everybody below deck, last come to lock up the portholes.” Boy, we had a time trying to get there, because it rock like this, it





rock like that. But anyway, we went down there, and we got down in there and then closed it up like that. He start, “Everybody get on the bunk and lay flat on your stomach. Reach up under your bunk, lock up as tight as you can. We got a storm to ride out. We got to face the storm.” Let me tell you, the waves are hitting like this; the ship would roll like this and come back down, go under one, you hit it, right back up. Go over one way, come up over the other one. I said, “Do a prayer?” It was a lot of prayers, good people praying there. So when it stop, he say “Look now, we got to get back on course now. We got to make up some time we done lost.” So then we come back on, got to make up time. But we headed north. We had two stacks; all the north go ru-ru-ru-ru-ru. That water weighed all the time. When we got in Japan, we got off there, we had to go to places and change, get different clothes, pick up [inaudible 44:30] and all that stuff like that. Because our clothes were unfit for there. It so cold in Korea, they had to come up with special kind of clothes. And that did help, too, but we had nothing. We left Japan. The next day, we going up that water, had all that noise and all that stuff like that. And all at once, you could hear a pin fall. Everybody don’t have an idea, wondering what’s the matter. Wasn’t no noise at all! And let me tell you something, I got scared. Because, we all [inaudible 45:01] that ships supposed to, that water still going. But it was calm; you couldn’t hear nothing. I say, “Lord have Mercy!” I remembered then what my mother used to tell me about that, and she used to read that to us, what happened. Here, I got a chance to experience it. I experiencing it, the calm, like Christ told her, say, “Peace, be still!” I say, “Lord Have Mercy!” Hit me like a ton of bricks. God trying to show us something.





	J:	Well, the experiences that you’ve had--so many—that you could really apply them in your ministry.

	L:	Yes, that’s what I did. I could comfort somebody, I could tell them that I’ve been there. Told them, “This the experience that I had.” And I was like Paul. Paul told us, say, “Look here: when God called me, I was unfit.” Because he say he persecute the church. I done perpetrated a whole lot of stuff. But I could tell them I been there, see.

	J:	Did you enjoy your pastoring? L:	Oh, yes. Yes.

	J:	And did you have—whereabouts did you pastor?



	L:	I pastored first on the East Coast, my first job was on the East Coast. First church. In Fort Pierce, Florida. I had St. John’s United Methodist Church there. But here’s what I didn’t do: my wife had organized, we set up a choir there. And she had organized a choir. And we had a musician to come there. And he was trained on the piano, and all that stuff like that. So he and my wife—my first wife, this is my first wife—oh, she could sing! She’d [inaudible 46:41] the school, all that; she could sing. And we’d go round, I know my district superintendent, when he got ready to go somewhere, he’d come get us. I wonder, “Why he coming to me all the time?” He was taking me down so I been to a lot of Whites and so on, because we’d have the two of them back there that, the White preacher had me—“Oh, you can try your trainings with this—.” I said, “Oh, what are you training me for?” But it wasn’t there, see? Because they’d ask the question. Like I say, I’d been down the road. I tell them all the time I been through storm and rain.





And I could go to the White church, I could tell a lot of things, there was a lot of stuff they didn’t know. I could tell you my wife hear so much about that, too.

Then, my wife helping the choir; she got to show them how to do it like that there. And so, one night we went out to Port Saint Lucie down here, Stuart; for anyone that wasn’t no church down—. He came and take us to all the big churches! So we were there like that. So he asked my wife, say, “Come on, I want you to help me.” Well, he had—I didn’t know what he was talking about. I mean, [inaudible 47:50]. He say, “Look here.” And here a megachurch, one of them big churches. [Inaudible 47:55]. He said, “I got all these people there, I got a choir just don’t know what to do. I want you to help me. I found out you help a lot of them big churches. Help me!” My wife went in, got on them choir members of the church. She got on them so, showed them how to do this, how to do this, and how to do—. How to do that. And a few weeks later he comes over, he says, “Let me thank you.” He did that choir going do what they supposed to do like that, and he was excited about it, and my wife was too. And I don’t know what’s going on. But let me show you something: when my wife died—that was, again, in Ocala. One night at midnight, my doorbell rang. My doorbell rang, I said, “Who ringing my doorbell in the middle of the night?” You know? I opened the door. The one that she had helped down there, those singers at that church down there? That’s him. I say, “Boy, what are you doing here this time?” He say, “I been driving all day.” I say, “You have? Well, what can I do? Come on in.” He said, “I come to pay your wife’ hospital bill.” I said, “What?” He said, “I drove this far to pay it. When I needed her, needed help, she was there for me. I’m here for you.”





	J:	Well, it just shows how we have learned that when you serve, you will be served also. And Earsel, thank you a most interesting and stimulating—you have had some marvelous experiences! And we appreciate it. And I know you’ve enjoyed your experiences too, haven’t you?

	L:	Oh, yes. Oh, yes!



	J:	And we may, later on, ask you to expand on some of these experiences and the like, if you would be willing to.

	L:	Yes. I don’t mind.



	J:	Thank you very much again. I’ll close the— [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	?



	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, May 6, 2020 Final edit by:	Sandra Romero, May 19, 2020