AAHP 776; Roberts; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 776 Michael Roberts 2-29-2020 Interviewed by Paul Ortiz on February 29, 2020 56 minutes | 38 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Dr. Paul Ortiz sits down with Pensacola native Michael Roberts, who recalls his life and education in Pensacola, Florida. Michael remembers attending segregated schools for first and second grade, and then transitioning to integrated schooling at CA Weis Elementary School. Roberts attended Brentwood Middle School, an integrated institution, and then went on to Escambia High School. He graduated from Florida State University in 1980 and went on to attend graduate school at the same institution. He went on to receive a doctoral degree from the University of West Florida in Pensacola. Roberts remembers the painstaking efforts that his mother endured to raise him alone after the death of his father when Roberts was still in elementary school. He also remembers the hardship brought on by his brother’s death in a motorcycle accident, which left his remaining brother as his only male role model.

Roberts discusses his current work as the principal of Booker T. Washington High School, a historically Black institution in Pensacola. Roberts explains some of the significance of Washington High School in the local community, remembering how the school’s name—and therefore, legacy—was almost lost during integration. Roberts then goes on to recall the turmoil he experienced as a student during the integration of Escambia High School. Particularly, Roberts recalls the successful effort to change the school’s mascot from the “Rebels,” to discontinue the use of Dixie-inspired fight songs, and to remove Confederate flags from the school campus. Roberts concludes with his philosophies on education as the principal of Booker T. Washington High School.



Keywords: [Pensacola, Florida, Black community, education, segregation, integration, Booker T. Washington High School, Escambia High School, educator]



AAHP 776

Interviewee: Michael Roberts Interviewer: Paul Ortiz

Date: February 29, 2020

	O:	So we are here at the Branch Library of Pensacola, Mr. Roberts is with us—Mr. Michael Roberts—thank you so much for coming in and taking time out of your day—

	R:	You are welcome. I am honored to be here.



	O:	Thank you sir. And my name is Dr. Paul Ortiz, also with Sebastiano, so Mr.



Roberts I was wondering before we start if you could tell me kind of about around the time you were born, growing up, what life was like as a young boy growing up in the area.

	R:	Okay. I’m a native Pensacolian, I grew up, was born, and raised here. Born at— I’m trying to think of the name of the hospital, when I was born there was segregation, so it was a hospital for African Americans which was—oh gosh, it escapes me—Ladies of Angels Hospital, which is still a clinic now owned and operated by the Catholic Diocese. I was born in 1957 right here in Pensacola Florida. I am one of four siblings. I am a product of—and I say it with pride, public education. My first grade was at Golen Elementary, which was a segregated elementary school. Second grade was at Olive Elementary, which is now Lincoln Park Elementary. And then all of my other years were in integrated schools. I did the rest of my elementary schooling at C. A. Wise, which was where I went third, fourth, and fifth.

	O:	And that was integrated?



	R:	Integrated. Yes, yes, integrated. Sixth, seventh and eighth, Brentwood Middle School. Integrated. I did high school ninth, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth at Escambia High School, graduated in 1976, left here and went to several colleges





but I graduated from Florida State University in 1980. Started graduate school there, got a masters from there as well, political science in history with a focus on going to law school, so it was a pre-law degree. Tragedy happened and I came home, went back, finished up that and started in the doctoral program there.

Finished my doctoral degree here at the University of West Florida, and I have been in education ever since.

	O:	Very cool. Wow. So, Dr. Roberts, can you tell me, when you were growing up here what some of your earliest memories were in terms of—Who were the role models and people you really looked up to growing up as a kid?

	R:	As a kid, my mom. My dad died first day of first grade; I was six years old. It has been so long ago, but my mom has been my rock and still is to this day. She’s ninety-three and just became weak but she’s still at home and uses a walker, her mind is still alert. I had two older brothers, Nathaniel and Armstrong. Armstrong was killed at age twenty-nine by a drunk driver on his motorcycle, so Nathaniel, who has been my father figure, who’s now retired, he and his wife were basically taking care of my mom. I have a younger sister who lives in Texas, but my role model, the person that I have always aspired to be like, was my mom. But those people outside of the family circle would be people such as Mr. Henry MacMillan, who is long deceased but there is a school named after him. He was very instrumental back in the [19]60s and early [19]70s with many things that many people benefitted from. Very active in integrating the schools and doing things that better the humanitarian for all. Very active in the NAACP, he was the person





that I first talked to about his education for me. I’m a principal at a local high school here and I’ve been a principal at that high school for thirteen years now—

	O:	What high school?



	R:	Booker T. Washington High School. O:	Okay, wow.

	R:	And prior to that I was the principal at Woodham High School, then they converted Woodham to a middle school, so I was the AP for two years, principal for three years. But Mr. Macmillan was someone whom I used as a reference to enter into the Escambia County School District.

	O:	So, he was an educator?



R:  Yes, he was. Educator, principal, all of that as well as served on the school board for several years prior to his demise.

O:   Okay.



R:  So, I’d say Mr. Henry Macmillan and then other educators that I met along the way. But I one of the two—I don’t want to say fictitious—but bigger than life to me—would be Martin Luther King and Booker T. Washington himself.

O:   Why?



	R:	Why? First of all, I believe both were put here on the Earth for a short period of time to do a phenomenal job. To me., those are two individuals I aspire to be like. They made a difference, not for a race of people, but for the human race. And I think what they did for African Americans benefitted globally, the world. I think what they did made the world a much better place. I’m honored that I’m the principal at a school that bears his name and so before when I went there





thirteen years ago, I thought you got to know more about this person. And what he championed for, his cause, it wasn’t for selfish reasons, it was to promote a more humanitarian society. One in which all people could live and be free. And I think that’s something that I want to be. And I don’t know, I’ll never be of the caliber or quality, but I align my morals and values with what was instilled in me with those two characters, those two people, Martin Luther King and Booker T. Washington High School.

	O:	Dr. Roberts, what’s the history of Booker T. Washington High School? I’m assuming it’s an older school.

	R:	We are the oldest Booker T. Washington High School in the nation. O:	Wow.

	R:	Yes. Originally the school was located on Texar Drive and now we’re on 6000 College Parkway, which is a rock’s throw from here. If you go out and drive, you’ll be there in less than a minute unless the traffic slows you up. You asked me, it is historically speaking in Escambia County, Pensacola, Florida, because it was the only African American school back in the [19]30s, [19]40s, [19]50s, and [19]60s. So, every African American person who is of prominence, who has made a profound impact, graduated from the school.

O:   Wow. And it was always named Booker T. Washington?



R:  Yes. Yes, yes. Up until when they moved over in [19]80 when they built the new school, there was a big upheaval because there were those that wanted it to be called Cordova High School.

O:   Changing the name?





	R:	From Booker T. to Cordova High School. O:	Why would you do that?

	R:	Well, that was the mindset. But people fought against it and the old school, the original Booker T. name followed it over to the new location.

	O:	I see. Oh, so they were trying, you mean there were certain White individuals who didn’t want to association with Booker T. Washington—?

	R:	Exactly. Exactly.



	O:	Which is interesting if you think about it because Booker T. Washington was very much a mainstream educational figure, as you’re saying, who wanted education for all people.

	R:	Exactly, exactly, exactly. When you talk about school, my four years at Escambia, which were—it wasn’t—there were a lot of racial issues—

	O:	When you were in high school?



	R:	When I was in high school. If I remember correctly, we were the first high school where there was actually a shooting on campus in the state of Florida. My ninth- grade year, Escambia had over 3,300 kids. This is me reflecting on forty- something years ago. There were 3,300, probably 3,000 White and 300 African Americans and the majority of those were bussed in. I happened to live in the attendance zone of Escambia High School. I did ride a bus, but I would have ridden a bus because that is my districted school, but trials and tribulations.

There were many, many, many challenges. Many challenges.



	O:	Because people were really opposing?





	R:	Not so much race. Well, the school name was Rebels. Escambia High School Rebels, and the school fight song was Dixie and the flag was the Confederate flag. So, we went through all of that to the point that the school was closed down for a few weeks. But we rose above it and the school will be forever scorned, but it’s still a good school.

	O:	But it has the same name?



	R:	No, it is not. While I was there, we went from Rebels, Raiders, and they are now the Gators.

	O:	Okay, wow well good for them.



	R:	They are the Gators! Orange and green and orange and blue.



	O:	Wow, okay. Wow that’s amazing. Well, we just talked to Mr. Grier. Wonderful career as a firefighter, he talked about the struggles within the fire department with integrating that department and what an epic story that he had. And in your story in education, equally epic, as you’ve seen a lot of changes.

	R:	Yes, I have.



	O:	And you’ve been part of those changes. R:	I would like to think so.

	O:	What have been the changes you’ve been most proud of that you’ve been able to affect as a leading educator in the region?

	R:	Good question. The changes I’m the most proudest of that I feel that I’ve affected—Showing that—now I’ve been at this school thirteen years, wonderful experience. The experience of Woodham, wonderful, at Tate as a dean, wonderful. All my journey has been great. Not just because of who I am, but my





beliefs. And whose I am. But we still struggle in Escambia County with minority representation. Kids of color, kids that look like me, are the least likely—lead the population of dropouts, fights, violence. And I attribute the majority of that to upbringing and home and environment and all that sort of stuff. But I truly believe the kids can’t be that which they cannot see. And we struggle with not having enough minority representation. I truly believe that there are things that I can say to a kid—

	O:	Well in terms of teaching—



	R:	Teachers, administrators, janitors across the gambit. We do fine with janitors and bus drivers. We do find those areas traditions, those minds, there’s a perception that’s where we need to be. But to answer your question, what we need more of are people of color in education to turn education around. At my school, which is fifty-fifty, my school has almost 1,900 students, 1,872 the last count, which was yesterday. We’re 45 percent African American, 47 percent and the other is other. The other percentages. And I would say most of those 1,800 kids, a thousand of those kids still come. We probably have five hundred that come from well-to-do, another three hundred middle class, the other, poverty. But there’s a good mixture. My kids interact, intermingle, socialize based on interest, not race, not socioeconomics. Football players tend to gravitate to football players, baseball, track, clubs, that’s how they cluster. They don’t cluster because “You’re Black, you’re White” “You’re poor, you’re rich,” any of that. But my kids don’t see enough of—I have one hundred ten teachers and I only have eleven African American teachers.





	O:	Really?



	R:	And it’s not a design of a system of anything. There are many things that come into play. People lower their appreciation and competency and we’re one of the lowest paid in the district. But we’ve got to do a better job of reaching out and trying to recruit more African Americans, Hispanic, Asians, across the board.

	O:	Because the studies show now—the recent studies—now this is not my field, bear with me, but from what I understand form colleagues in the college of education, it used to be thought that African Americans students or Asian American students or Hispanic students would perform better if they saw more teachers of their background—

	R:	I agree.



	O:	The newer studies even go a step further and say that even White students would do better if they had more diversity among their teachers, right? Is that correct?

	R:	I totally agree with that. I think if education reflected society, reflected the world in which we live, everybody would have to adjust and learn how to live in the world with each other. But my journey has been—I attribute it to the success that I had first of all, to God, who is the head of my life, and then secondly, even at Escambia, I was the only African American in every class except for PE and home room. So, for four years, I was the only Black in all my classes. Even in middle school at Brentwood Middle School. Don’t know if that’s because how we were tracked or how we performed on a test or whatever, but I’ve always been perceived as the “token.” So, my journey is a little different because I’ve always





been at the right place at the right time and met the needs of others. For whatever reason that is. But there are challenges that still exist because I can see it from other schools and other counterparts. We have a long way to go. We have a long way to go. Did I answer your question at all?

	O:	Yes, yes. So, Dr. Roberts, the other thing I was going to ask you about, because you mentioned your high school experience and so what types of classes were you taking in high school?

	R:	Today they would’ve be considered advanced classes. Back when I was in school, we didn’t have AP, didn’t have dual enrollment. But I took algebra, geometry, and all the classes that I had, that’s where the top ten, the valedictorian, the salutatorian, all of those.

	O:	And you were the only African American student— R:	For four years. In every class except for—

	O:	What was that like?



	R:	Well, it was normal. I mean, for middle school, that’s how it was. I can’t remember now at Golden, which is predominately—Golden was 100 percent that was before integration, my first grade, the second grade. So of course, I had people that looked like me in all of my classes. And when I went to C.A. Wise which, segregation, for third fourth and fifth, I can’t remember if I was the only— but high school, middle school and high school, every class except for homeroom at PE. And I don’t know if it’s because I just— I did well in school. I did well in school. School came easy to me. And even when the school was asked by the NAACP and the NCLC to boycott, I went to school. There were days I was the





only African American not only—and my two cousins, Randy and Carol--so there were days we were the only three on the whole campus.

	O:	The entire campus. Wow.



	R:	For two weeks as a matter of fact. For two weeks. That’s how important my mom thought education was. That’s what she instilled into us: you go to school, you mind your business, do what you’re supposed to do, you’re gonna be okay. And we were. But that was norm, so I didn’t realize until after I graduated from high school that hm, that wasn’t normal. That wasn’t normal. But I didn’t question it at the time. I just went to school, did what I needed to do, and graduated.

	O:	When you were in high school did your elders start to implicate the idea of a career or did you begin to think in high school about the next steps in your life, college?

	R:	The four of us always knew that after you graduated, the next thing was college.



That was just the natural progression in our lives. You graduate, you go off to college. Yeah, that summer, and two of us did go to summer school and off to college, but the rest, we get the summer off, you started school at some institution that fall. That was just how we were raised to believe life progressed. But what led me into education was happenstance—When I finished up, I thought, “What am I gonna do with my life?” My goal was to go to law school, and my brother was killed while at FSU in law school, so I started to re-evaluate life. “Is it worth it? Do you want to do this?” And I just could not focus on education and sitting in a classroom and doing those things. So, I went back and finished graduate school and came home, worked two full time jobs for twenty years, I





taught during the day and I was a juvenile correction officer from four to midnight. But I only worked the two jobs back-to-back three days during the week because I worked doing JPO on Saturdays and Sundays. So, I worked every day, every day for twenty years. And then I fell in love with education. I’ve done kindergarten, fourth grade, middle school, high school, crisis intervention, dean, and all of that. I just love being around the kids, trying to make a difference with kids, and for thirty-five years now that’s what I’ve done.

	O:	Tough to be an educator in the state of Florida. Lowest paid in the nation—



	R:	Which is one of the reasons I moved up. I just could not do the two jobs and I thought, “Okay, let’s get certified,” because I already had a master’s. So I worked on the certification and became a dean, then became an assistant principal, which put me at a different pay bracket all together. I could not have stayed in a classroom. My wife is a teacher as well. We could not do—two jobs and she was working part time and I thought, “I’ll go this route” and it’s been rewarding, very rewarding.

	O:	Wow and you mentioned the struggle for resources, and I believe you were saying at your school you really have to deal with trying to figure out where to get resources.

	R:	Well, we, we receive a budget, now we’re a Title I school based on the number— the large number of students—who qualify for free or reduced lunch. My school gets all kids are fed free, regardless if you’re a millionaire or poverty-stricken.

Two meals, breakfast and lunch is provided for free. The resources that we have as far as the operations of the school, the school pays the bills and all of that but





we’re given a budget that we manage and we do okay. Now I don’t have anything to do with teacher’s salary, we’re not a site-based school in a sense of, “I’m gonna pay you this amount, I’m gonna pay you this amount” all of it is handled by personnel based on the credentials, the experience and all of that. But we do okay. What I was alluding to was that which we cannot affect, home environment.

	O:	I see, okay. I see. What have been, when you think, Dr. Roberts, you were alluding also to some of the role models that you kind of grew up around, but when you begin to go to the side of education, as a career, what were some of the really kind of influential role models or theories or maybe in education literature that you began to think, “This is really something I need to teach or something I need to learn from.”

	R:	Well you know I can look back—there’s a quote that my son, who is now twenty and Florida State, Michael said in his yearbook and I really didn’t even realize that he was really paying attention to me. And Mr. Tatong retired, military admiral, was my geometry teacher. Every Monday we had a quiz. Every Friday we had a test. And in unison we’d always go, “Ah, not another test!” Mr. T would always say to us, “Pay now, play later, or play now, pay later.” And he would always say that, it didn’t mean a lot when I was sixteen, but when I got older it all fell into place. So, I taught my son that at an early age.

	O:	Deferred gratification.



	R:	Yes, yes, yes. Because you’re going to pay one way or the other, pay now so that you can play later. But Mr. Tatong is one that—one I did struggle with, is law school for me and this, that, and the other—seeing him teach, and he didn’t have





to, that was a second career for him, with a passion, and the difference that he made in my life just knowing that—having good work ethics will pay off in the end. And I thought, maybe education is for me. And so I would have to say that’s one of the pivotal things that turned me towards education, but then what kept me there was the professors, other instructors, that encouraged—even principals that I worked for—when I was only working the two jobs to go back to law school, the goal was to save money, go to law school—that’s why I did the two jobs. It encouraged me because “Mike this may be where you need to be, it’s not always about the money.” And then I also met a very prominent, successful lawyer whose law school bears his name on it at your school. Who wrote me a letter of recommendation and said, “Well, Michael, don’t do it for the money. Don’t do it for the money, do it for what’s in here.” And so I had Mr. Fred Levin himself, not as a mentor or anything, that was just when I was a JBO his daughter was one of the judges, she said, “You need to meet my dad.” So he’s one that also helped me put things in proper perspective. And then along the way you meet other people who encourage or discourage you, so I choose to go with those who encourage me. And there were many, many, many of those people along the way.

	O:	Dr. Roberts did you, over this time you’re working two jobs and you’re beginning to really center on a new career path, what was happening in Pensacola during those years in terms of like economics, the politics, the social?

	R:	Now this is, you’re asking as I’m traveling my journey or after I graduated and?





	O:	Right, because you’ll leave for a time to work on your degrees, you’ll come back and you know, you talked earlier about the boycotts early on during high school but now we’re getting to the [19]80s and [19]90s, and I guess, it’s a vague question but it’s kind of like what are the big changes you’re seeing at the time in the county, in the city?

	R:	More acceptance of people. More opportunities. Not as fast as it could have been, the plants such as Champion which went through several different names and Mont Santo, which went through— African Americans could get good-paying jobs here that paid more than minimum wages. But you begin to see more professional jobs such as Gulf Power hiring people of color. You see more and more people of color—still a lot leaving because of the few opportunities—but at the same time you see an increase in those who have gone off, graduated, coming back home, getting professional jobs. You see growth for all people, you see greater opportunities. Not as fast as I or we would love to have seen it, but we do see the change in mindset. You begin to see people begin to accept people for who they are, their character, the good qualities, not just, “Oh this is a person that looks different form me so therefore they cannot do this job.” See that, see that, along with—

	O:	What were some of the important—you had mentioned a coupled of individuals and you did mention the NAACP, and in addition or maybe in including, what were some of the important organizations or individual that helped promote those changes?





	R:	NAACP, SCLC, a lot of the churches, a lot of the churches. And there were other people that came in to—I wouldn’t even say the president or the CEOs of the different companies who were not rooted here but promoted here, who came—

	O:	So they’re outsiders, in a way?



	R:	Yes. Yeah. Yes. Yes. Change in the culture, the climate.



	O:	Right. You will appreciate this, so yesterday I was with Fred Levin, we were over and we’ve been doing some interviews with him and our program, UF Oral History, is named after Samuel Proctor and Mark Proctor’s son--

	R:	—that’s his dad?



	O:	Yeah, that’s his dad. So Mark is the president now of the firm, I’ve known Mark for many years, and it’s interesting because his father had such a struggle at the University of Florida because when Sam Proctor was a professor at UF at the turn of the [19]50s he was one of the very few Jewish faculty members. A lot of anti-Semitism at UF, a lot of racism that he had to deal with. So, as you were talking, I was just thinking about how much you have had to struggle and people before and then after have had to struggle in those institutions—but the other thing you were saying was that there were a certain number of progressive Black churches—can you talk about that an d the role they play?

	R:	Yes. Oh yeah, I’ll talk about Nathaniel Smith, who was at Antioch Baptist Church, a man before his time. He has three daughters that graduated from the University of Florida. He led the champion of, “We’ve got to make a change and we’ve got to work with a sense of urgency.” I can remember him from the pulpit—now I am a member of Zion Hill Primitive Baptist church, but at that time I was a member of





Mount Pilgrim Baptist Church, where I was baptized. I was a member there because my mom and my siblings—I grew up in that church. But I can remember when I was sixteen and driving, going to hear him speak on, “This is what we’ve got to do.” And he modeled a lot of what he did after Martin Luther King.

Nonviolent approach. “We’ve got to just make our voices heard, we’re gonna show through our actions that we are good people, we are deserving of the same rights that you are deserving of.” So. his church was very active, his church had a large following. They followed him—there was Brooks, Reverend Brooks, who was—I cannot think of the same of his church but it will come to me—he was very active as was H.K. Matthews, Reverend Matthews was a minister at the time and I was a little boy so I can’t remember a whole lot but he was very, very active. I know more now because he’s still alive and he still does public speaking, even to move because it was so bad for him, he moved to Atmore. So, he’s living in Atmore. But those people, and my pastor, who is long been deceased, Reverend Nester Jones, those are some guys that were, as a little boy I could look up and see they were champions for a cause and they didn’t always play the race card, it was the people card. We’re human beings, we need the rights that all human beings have. So those guys operated from that philosophy and belief, so I look up to those people. But very instrumental in us being able to—for me to even be able to enter this library through the front door today. And the list goes on, and I feel bad. There was many—Reverend Gooden from Tallahassee— there were many outsiders because they met together to plan and strategize, and I know that from Channel 3 News and seeing that. The news media, I can





remember when Sue Strong was the only African American that you saw on the news, for ever and ever. And they’ve made some in-roads there, there’s some additional ones. Long way to go, but we’ve come a long way.

	O:	Yeah. Dr. Roberts can you talk about your graduate training, your thesis work, kind of what you did for that?

	R:	I’d be happy to. I started at FSU—it was a PhD, did not finish at FSU, did not finish there, transferred those credits to UWF and it became and ED, as opposed to—because UWF does not offer PhDs. My thesis was done on the correlations between at-risk students and juvenile delinquency. And I did that because I’d worked two jobs for many, many years. One being a probation officer, and for six of those years working with the juvenile justice department, I worked at Pensacola Boy’s Space on Correy Station, which is a residential treatment facility for delinquent boys. So I was always interested in, “What can we look at? What are some of the predictors of this young man getting into trouble?” So, I looked at attendance, grades, discipline, all of those things. It took me four solid years to get my doctoral degree from UWF. And what I found out there is truly a correlation between kids that don’t do well in school, kids that come from economically deprived backgrounds, kids that have absent dad or no dad at all whether its due to incarceration or just born out of wedlock or whatever—and there were five things that I came up with and I could say, “Yes, the 95 percent percent of these young men all had this in common. This is an indicator that Johnny will be in trouble or drop out of school and not finish school.” So, we





know that, but what can we do on the other side? What can we do to be proactive and to prevent? And that’s where my study went.

	O:	Wow. So in your study did you talk about what we can do? R:	Yes.

	O:	Okay, so what was your argument and your—?



	R:	Growing the family. You’ve got to touch those who truly touch the child. Taking them out of the environment for seven and a half, eight hours a day, which I call school, sending them back into all those at-risk factors, doesn’t fix it. Until you can educate—whether it’s grandma, the guardian, but who’s feeding, clothing, and sheltering that child until you can draw them into what you’re trying to do, very little success. Very little. Even when I was at Jim Allen elementary, I took a leave of absence from the school district because I was writing a grant that we got five million dollars for. So, the principal contracted me, which doubled my salary, for five years we did a study. We took thirty kids that were all at-risk, and anything that money could buy to make those kids whole, we bought a bus, we bought a van, we got them dental work, eyeglasses, we made sure that they had three meals a day, we bought them clothes, we bought them everything that you would buy your child to help your child be successful. Thirty kids, first grade, second grade, third grade, fourth grade, fifth grade, we required those kids parents or someone, I did STEP which was Systematic Training for Effective Parenting, every Tuesday night for one hour. I flew to California, became certified as a STEP trainer, met with those parents, met with them, met with them. Part of it—If Johnny’s gonna do this, you must do that. For five intensive years, we went





to dinner, I mean, we spent and spent and spent. Well, that worked well for five years. Now they’re moving on to middle school, of those thirty kids, two graduated. What happened? There was no monitoring, we couldn’t force the parents to stay involved, we couldn’t keep that protective haven that we had created. So it’s not about the money, if you can’t get someone that’s bathing, clothing, someone that’s disciplining, someone that’s loving on the child outside of school. You’re gonna reach some—don’t get me wrong—you’re gonna reach some. But the greatest success is made with those that you impact the home.

	O:	And that’s ironic in the sense that if you follow American politics, at least as long as I can remember as a fellow educator, the attention has been put on the teacher.

	R:	Yes.



	O:	And the blame has been put on the teacher and principal. And then to say, in fact, when my wife and I moved to Florida in 2008 and I taught University of California Sant Cruz for about seven years, coming back here I remember almost the first day at the state legislature opening and hearing representative after representative get up and just chastise and criticize and attack teachers and public educators.

	R:	Even today.



	O:	And what kind of example does that set? Because everyone sees, wow these people are being attacked and attacked and attacked and it’s just so odd to me—

	R:	And that sends a message to the parents and everyone, “It’s their fault, it’s their fault.” And that’s the mindset, that’s the mindset.





	O:	How do we change that? [Laughter] It’s another dissertation, right?



	R:	Or we just keep preaching, you don’t give up. But you know, politically speaking, no one wants to attack and blame mom and dad. That’s just not politically correct, but until we do now my wife does—My wife chose to stay in the classroom. She’s phenomenal. She’s been encouraged by many people to become an administrator, now my wife is twelve years younger than I am, she’s not yet even fifty, but she’s very outspoken so when she has her parent conferences, she does not allow a parent to say, “Mrs. Roberts, you, you, you.” She lays it down. “Johnny had homework, homework is the operative word there ma’am. It should be done at home.” And she’s loved by and she chooses to work with the kids that I did studies. On. She’s chosen to go to a school that has wayward kids because that’s where she feels that her strength lies. But now she’s in the minority as far as being able to say to parents what parents need to hear. No one wants their son’s superintendent that wants to stand with the mic before on the news saying, “Mom and dads, you all have got to do a better job of parenting. You need to make sure that when Johnny enters high school, he or she knows how to read.” When we get kids in ninth grade that can’t read—we can’t fix them in high school. That’s irreversible. Why are we promoting them?

That’s a conversation all within itself, but what are parents doing to prepare their children? I did kindergarten intersession intercity school for ten years.

Intersession you come six weeks, you’re off ten days, you come six weeks, so no one wanted to do remediation with kindergarteners during those ten days. I chose it for more reasons than one. It was good money, and I love





kindergarteners. We would get kindergarteners who had never seen a writing utensil until they showed up at school. We would get kindergarteners who don’t know how to use a fork or a spoon, you know, they stabbed at stuff. When you say, Line up!” stampede. These are kids that hadn’t been taught to scoot back and wait your turn. That’s how far behind we are. When kids come to school that far behind, that’s a deficit. That’s a handicap. That’s a handicap. There’s a marked difference between the ones that are prepared and not prepared, so where I was going with that is, I took it upon myself during those ten days to have those parents come to school, to come to school. Now, parents were young. I had five-year-old who had parents that were not yet twenty. And that’s another whole conversation, these grandparents were not yet forty. You know, it’s generational. But educating the parents alongside the kids is what we’re not doing. When you have a population of students that don’t know, then there’s parents there to help us teach. But that’s not anything that’s gonna win anyone an election, to say that. But how do we get them to parent? We have to be truthful early on. Middle school, high school, [groans].

	O:	Probably too late.



	R:	Yes, yes, yes, yes. Early on, I mean, you can go from one side of this county to the other side and one side your C school you’ll see becoming a D as you travel, B+, A school, “Okay, what are they doing?” Parents are investing in their kids before we get them, and that’s not necessarily money. The Blackburns, four boys that went to Jim Allan, mom didn’t work, dad worked the paper mill, they brought their sandwiches and stuff in a syrup bucket. Every one of those boys graduated





Valedictorian. They lived in a log cabin but they valued the basic things you can teach children, do not require you being a millionaire. And I used them as a case study, great kids, discipline, love, nurtured, Steven wore what Johnny wore, the hand-me-downs, because I was there long enough to see them go through elementary and just wonderful kids, but they were loved. And until we can say to parents, “You’ve got to teach your child the very basics before they walk onto a school campus.” Because that whole year, guess what that teacher is doing if they come not trained or taught?

	O:	Remediation.



	R:	And they’re already a year behind.



	O:	Right, exactly. Well one of the things, I mean, I could listen to you all day talking about educational theory, Teniade does wants us to talk about other issues as well, can you talk about neighborhoods and maybe how neighborhoods have changed? I guess that also does relate to education.

R:  There is more integration. With employment, and jobs, and education, all of that being used to the transformation. But we are more blended, much more so, but now we still have that side of town and that side of town.

	O:	What are some of the keywords when you say that? See, in Gainesville, when you say the term, “East Gainesville” you’re talking Black people. So what are some of the key words here?

R:  Westside. Would be eastside in Gainesville. Now when you hear North Hill, East Hill, affluent, money. But we’re having more and more of us—we’re having more and more of us to move into those neighborhoods because we’re beginning to





have more and more of us that have been given opportunities for better jobs and to get a quality education so you can afford the 300, 400-thousand-dollar house. Segregation, this is my opinion and its not a widely accepted opinion, has done more help than harm. I think it’s enabled people to learn how to live together, therefore moving into neighborhoods and everything. We as a people are becoming for accepting of each other. And its happening, its happening more and more and more. There’s a huge migration to the north end of the county and the belief is that’s the other people getting away from those people.

	O:	We’re doing some interviews up in—what’s the name of—it starts with a “C” R:	Cantonment.

	O:	We’ve got a team up there right now.



	R:	That’s the north end, which is where my wife and I built twelve years together. O:	Okay, so you live there.

	R:	Yeah, I live in Cantonment. Yes, sir, I do, simply because Tate High School, I was a dean there. Tate is a large high school, almost three thousand kids, I was the dean there and I said, “This is where my child will go to school” So we bought some property, paid for it in forty-five years and built a house before he got into high school. Because it’s the last of how—I worked at Woodham, I worked at Booker T. Washington High School, Tate has the last of the two-parent, the grandparents, the great-grandparent, all graduated from there. Generational.

When you call, 99 percent of the time when you make a phone call, someone’s going to answer. If mom can’t come, grandmother can. And I loved what I saw. That’s where the boys all hunt, you know, it’s a big deal when a calf is gonna





have a cattle, that’s an excused absence, it’s just all the boys drive the big trucks, but you can walk to campus and say, “Go to class, go to class” and 99 percent of them—

O:   Go to class.



	R:	Because that’s what they know. And I wanted my son to be a part of that. So, a lot of people that can afford it are migrating to the north end. They’re bursting at the seams, I’ll put it that way. So when you interview out there, it’s gonna be interesting.

	O:	Yes we’ve had a team there starting, well, yesterday and then today until six p.m. so they’re, yeah. What impact has—I know in our area charter schools have made a real impact, big impact, what kind of impact have they made to this area?

	R:	I’m not gonna say a great impact because there’s so few of them. We had the Escambia Charter School which was a high school for troubled kids and it’s closed. We have the Jacqueline Harris Preparatory, which is a charter school but its operated and ran more like a private school. They’re making a huge impact with the small population of students that they have. Then we have the S.O. Jones Christian Academy, which is perceived as a charter school, I don’t know the impact or the difference that they’re making. Then we have another one, A.A. Dixon I believe it’s called, and they’re making an impact but it’s an elementary.

Elementary. Now we do have Camelot, which is a charter school, and they are making a difference in that it’s a second, alternative school for kids. It gives them a second chance. “Ah, you messed up here—drugs, weapons, fighting and that sort of stuff, but you can still get a quality education, we’re placing you here.” And





that’s a hearing, a removal hearing. But I think public education, I think what we’re doing and what we’re dealing with, we’re doing a phenomenal job. I’m an advocate of our education system.

	O:	Right, it’s good to hear, it’s refreshing to us. In Florida, it’s a real struggle, I know we, you know, among the faculty and I know this is true of my colleagues in Florida A&M and FSU, sometimes you feel that public education is not valued in the state of Florida the way it should be, but at the same time as you mentioned earlier, like we take the blame for if things go wrong. If things go right, other people get the credit. Which is fine, we’re not here to be, you know, but at the same time, yeah. Well, I know I’ve already taken a lot of your time, Dr. Roberts, but if you don’t mind just two or three more questions.

	R:	Sure I’m fine.



	O:	So, one of the questions, you were walking about, you know, you had started graduate studies at FUS and then it matriculated to University of West Florida, can you talk about the role the University of West Florida and maybe even other higher education institutions have made upon Escambia County?

	R:	Excellent question. Being that it’s the only university here in the area, they’ve had a profound impact but not to the level that it needs to be. The bridge is not there. We need to have a liaison or better working relationship. One of the reasons I say that is because we’re not getting the teachers that we need, and I think if we were working together they would know what our needs are and could help us meet those needs. Now, it could be that folks are not going into teaching. That could be it—





	O:	UWF has education program?



	R:	Yes, they do, they have a College of Education.



	O:	Okay, they have graduate, and they have undergraduate.,



	R:	Yes, yes they do. but we’re not getting the number of teachers—I would like to see UWF being a bank deposit, I would like to see it being a primary resource, lets grow our own. Here’s what we need. We need elementary, we need secondary, we need a science, math, we need that, that’s not happening and I’m not blaming them. It could be that we are not at the table like we are now with them. I think there’s a need for open communication, for them to know what our needs are. And we’re talking a projected, we’re talking a down-the-road plan. It’s not gonna happen next year, but what’s’ our four-year plan? How can we help Escambia County school system get certified quality teachers to fill these schools in Escambia County and educate? So I’d love to see that, but now, I’m a product of UWF. What they provide is total quality. I have no regrets of going there because everything that I learned has helped me to do my job better, and I’m a better person. But what I’d like to see is a better working relationship between the Escambia County School District and the University of West Florida.

	O:	Okay. So currently, many of the—it sounds like what you’re saying is in the college of education, lots of people are getting their four-year credentials, teaching credentials at UWF go elsewhere or they?

	R:	Or are not teaching. O:	Or not teaching.





	R:	Now, the majority of our teachers, I would venture to say, are from out-of-town or elsewhere.

	O:	Elsewhere, okay.



	R:	Now, I just don’t know if UWF has had a decline in the number of students who are interested in teaching, which could very well be the case.

	O:	Okay. That’s a very good question. At UF, I’m not even sure. I give lectures at the College of Education periodically and in the oral history program we do a lot of teacher’s workshops around issues of like social studies, civic engagement, and so forth. But I don’t know what the numbers are like at UF. The perception is the numbers are down, but again, I don’t know for sure.

	R:	I understand, I understand. And that may be very well the case at UWF. They may just not have the numbers. But they do have a College of Education, and one of the things that they no longer do that I know that they don’t do is they don’t do year-long internships where teachers would mentor, shadow, work in a school under a teacher. They used to require a year-long internship.

	O:	Wow. And that would ideally be a local, with the county.



R:  Yes, yes, yes. We used to get a letter saying, “Are you willing to accept five people to do English, math class, social studies, or whatever?” All of that no longer exists. And if it is, it’s for a short period of time, six weeks.

	O:	At least more time than that— R:	Oh yeah, yes, yes yes.

	O:	Wow, well Dr. Roberts are there other thoughts? S:	I had a question.





	R:	Yeah.



	S:	So yesterday I was talking to some folks that you know, I guess earlier you were talking about in schools were completely segregated at Booker T. Washington was the Black high school and so I forgot his name but I believe he was born in the [19]40s and so he went all the way up to high school to Booker T. Washington, senior, was the Black high school, and then junior and then back down at least two other schools. And its—I forgot the neighborhood—it might have been here still, but I don’t know it was far back but they said, for sure they said that all of them are walking distance from where you grew up.

	R:	Neighborhood schools.



	S:	Neighborhood schools. And so my background is I’m from a rural town, so for me it was normal walking to school but then I come to big city, Fort Meyers Florida, and there’s kids that I know that went to high school with that would get on the bus at 5:50, 6:00 AM and you only get to school until 7:20, I mean, that’s a big deal. But I never experienced it because I was able to walk to school. But you know in your experience I guess obviously given your knowledge do you think that the disappearance of neighborhood schools and the fact that people get bussed from all over, does that affect?

	R;	Oh without a doubt. Now that’s my mom’s conversation and all of that, the doing away with neighborhood schools has hurt what we call “The village.” You know, when you have neighborhood schools and my sister lives in Sugarland, and Texas, and they have an elementary, middle, but its, not everybody can live in Sugarland, it’s beautifully designed so you don’t have to leave the neighborhood





unless you want to. That fosters family. So, in African Americans, in our neighborhoods, when you had the elementary, middle, and high school, everybody was your mom. There was very little damage to the schools because that’s my school. That was my school. So when you start bussing them forty-five minutes across town, there’s that loss of connectedness. Even back in the day, your church was generally in your neighborhood.

	S:	And that’s where you say was the first school?



	R:	And that was a village. So, yes, that has hurt in that sense. Because there’s a huge disconnect. But that wasn’t the case with me, I just happened to live in my district area so the bus ride was fifteen minutes. Fifteen, twenty minutes. Then I drove for my last two years.

	S:	My high school, it was a charter school, and so you have—I don’t know exactly how the zoning worked, but the really good public high schools you can only go to if you live in a certain area and so there would be kids that would be forced to go to our school. By car it takes you at least thirty minutes. And then the school itself was very corporate, very standardized quote unquote so you have kids from all kinds of backgrounds, and I think what you said bout family makes a huge deal because I know one of the folks that was close to you know one of the most educated people I’ve ever met his mind was just then but then you go through certain issues in the community, you just feel like, “Hey, you know, my cousin, I lost him to gun violence two days ago” and that wouldn’t get tackled at the school level. No educators would be from that background, so they couldn’t really





understand what was going on. And I think it’s very tough to think about how that can of stuff can get address, but I feel like a lot of kids get lost.

	R:	Sure, I agree, I agree. Have I helped? Have I contributed?



	O:	Wonderful, incredibly educational, pun intended. Thank you, thank you sir. R:	A pleasure. Nice meeting you young man.





[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Abby Lovett



	Audit Edited by:	Kasamba Kokayi April 21, 2021, Sandra Romero June 2, 2021 Final-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, June 2, 2021