AAHP 026; Washington; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 026 Brenda Washington African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Monique Williams on June 7, 2010 1 hour, 5 minutes | 27 pages



Abstract: Brenda Washington describes her career as a retired juvenile delinquency counselor. She is a member of the last graduating class (1969) of Lincoln High School in Gainesville Florida. Ms. Washington went on to receive an Associate of Arts degree from Santa Fe Community College, and a Bachelor’s in Sociology with a minor in Social Welfare from Florida A&M University. Reflecting on her time growing up, Ms.

Washington describes her experiences growing up in a segregated Gainesville and attending Lincoln High, and talks about her continued involvement in the Lincoln Alumni Association.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County; Education; Lincoln High School; Integration]













































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 026

Interviewee: Brenda Washington Interviewer: Monique Williams Date of interview: June 7, 2010



	MW:	This is Monique Williams interviewing Brenda Washington on this seventh day of June, 2010. So, how are you today?

	BW:	Oh, I'm fine. Really, I’m great! I'm not in any pain. I am doing fine on a hot day. [Laughter]

	MW:	Can you tell me a little bit about your family?



	BW:	Well, my family is consist of, right at this time, I have two sisters, and I have five brothers. And I have one brother in Italy. He live in Italy. And, all the other four are here in Gainesville. And a sister here in Gainesville. The only person that I have is a sister that’s—well, it really is two of us; we don't have any kids. The sister behind me, she and I, we don't have any kids at all, so we—we're not so much of a big family when it comes to nieces and nephews, because the only persons that have children is my baby brother—and as far as that go, he have one son—and my baby sister, she just have one daughter. She had a son, but he passed in 2007. I helped raise my baby sister’ children which consists of a daughter and the son that passed. The daughter, she’s attending Florida at this time. The son, he was attending Santa Fe College at the time of his death, so I felt good that we got him through high school and we got him started on the right way. They was good children. And I, myself, my mother she wasn't with us—she was with us when I graduated from high school and I graduated from Florida A&M. So, she was with me then. And my grandmother was also; my grandmother helped raise us. We have what we call a close-knit family, and we have the background of my grandmother who helped us out a whole lots. My









father, he just passed last year. My father, he passed in my birth month, which is October, and we buried him the day right after my birthday. And my mother died in my birth month, and her sister died on my birthday, so I say it's just strange, and I'm just close to my family. Real close, like I said, -knit family. We was raised in the church. My grandmother, she was a minister, and matter of fact, I come from a family of ministry. I, myself, I've just retired last year, so it’ll be a year this year in April from working with juvenile detention center, that’s where I worked with. So, I been mostly here all my life in Gainesville, raised up. The only time I left Gainesville was when I graduated from Lincoln High School here in Gainesville, which was in the year of 1969. We considered ourself the last marching class—in the halls that is. Had to correct that for the 1970 class. But, I just feel good about being a part of Lincoln, because Lincoln was just a school where the teachers was close, and the parents. And at that time, the parents really cared about us as well as the teachers did. If we did anything wrong, even the neighbors had the right to chastise us, and then they told our parents, and then it was another. So, when we came up, we had what you call respect for our elders, and was taught that. And so, by us having that for our elders, we also pass that on to our children. And I always told my niece and nephew that I helped raise to always have respect for your elders, and to help them and spend time with them. Because that’s where our knowledge and history. You learn a lots from the elders, and I thank God that they was that amenable. They the kind of children that were amenable. And attending Lincoln High School, that was some of the best years. I started off first from the little elementary school. Was, at that









time was segregated. Wasn't integrated. When we left, it was from kindergarten to sixth grade. Then, you started at Lincoln, then it was a middle school and senior high. It was from seventh to twelfth. And so, I had good teachers that I really loved, that we was close there also, as well. Right today, I meet with the teachers; we, some of us, we’re real close. I have one that I'm real close to, like a family we are. Like I say, with the teachers there at the time, even the principal we had was principal Nealy at that time. He really held us—well you know, some people probably would say it was strict, but it wasn't strict. I believe in just what he believed in. At that time, if you got pregnant, you didn't march! And so, that was the difference. And therefore, that mean that you buckled down and you got your work. And, that’s the difference. Today, I think that it’s too many distraction of material things that is taking over the kids today compared to when I was coming up. We were taken care of. We didn't go to school, that didn't mean that you played like the kids do now, hooky. We had to either be sick or we had to work. So, therefore, you didn't want to stay home! They didn't play that game, whatever. You went to school! And like I say, we had respect for the teachers.

You didn't do anything—like today, the kids—. My heart goes out to the teachers now. And those who become teachers, my heart goes out to you. But, right now, I, when I was coming up, I don’t think wanted to be a teacher! [Laughter] Even though, I'm kind of volunteering to help people at academy at this time, but I got to be really strong doing that. But, back in the days when I was growing up, it was easy. I helped raise some of the neighborhood kids. I would do their hair for the young ladies, as well as my mother and grandmother. Do they hair. And I









enjoyed doing it. I enjoyed teaching the young ladies when they was coming up at that time. And I try to do that now with those that will allow me to help them and listen. It goes also with the parents. Kids today can make it and be more mannerable, but it’s hard as parents to just send them to school and think that the teacher’s supposed to teach them everything to get there. We got to work together; parents and the teachers. Also, family members who will help their loved ones. The parents got to be on the same, because if you’re not on the same, then the kids won’t be able to stand up and learn because you got too many distraction from peer pressure. If I can help any kids—even when I was working at the juvenile detention, I would talk with the young ladies and the young men, and try to steer them in the right way. And that they could get their lives together and turn around. So, going to Lincoln High School and growing up, that helped a lots right there. Having the good teachers when we were coming up, that’s a good background. Today, I thank God for having that. And that’s what encouraged me to make it on my own, because today, you have people to help you fill out application and all of that. When I was coming up, my mother wasn't the one to help me fill out applications, like, say, if I wanted to continue on to college. That's something that came about with me knowing how to read and everything, and then filling out the right application and getting them on time to school. And I thank God for the jobs I was able to have; like, say, G.E. was a big help to me. While I was working on the midnight shift, and then I would get off and I was going to Santa Fe College: I would get off from work and go straight to Santa Fe College in the morning. Class started at seven, and we had what we









called the "block classes" then. And so, by me being able to get paid for the classes that I passed through G.E., I always said that G.E. was the reason how I got started. But, then, opportunities, when they come—that’s what I look at it as, a opportunity—when an opportunity come, we need to take it. So there was a opportunity for me, so I taken that opportunity to go to Santa Fe College. When I got my classes and passed them, I take them to G.E. and they paid for them.

And that’s one thing we got to be strong about today as young ladies and young men. Do not pay attention when somebody tell you, “Oh, they won't pay for that and that.” If I’d’ve listened to somebody, I would have lost out an opportunity. But I didn't listen, and I went on. That’s the kind of person I am. I’m a strong person. I stand fast. I believe that if it something that you really want, and this is a little saying: “God will give you the desires of your heart.” And, so since the desire to my heart was to finish school—I never thought about going to college. I only thought it was, ohh! The smartest kids. I didn’t consider myself as being so smart, but I guess, when it’s perseverance, that you can do anything. Then, I had one of my teachers that I had taken a tailoring class, his name was Mr. Mickle; he was one of my best teachers. And it was a word that he say: "It’s no such word as 'can't'.” And I never forgot it. So, I set out with whatever my heart desire; that’s what I went for. So, when I finished at Santa Fe in [19]76, I was bound for FAMU. I went on campus—I went on Bethune’ campus, but for some reason I wasn't impressed. But when I went to FAMU, I was so impressed how it looked like family. So, I said, “That's the school.” But before that—I think it was, yeah, it was right then, because I don’t think anything else happened. What happened









when I was graduating from Santa Fe in [19]76, I was ready to go that summer, right away. But then I talked with some students, so I changed my mind and came back, and went back to work at G.E. And then I went back in the fall, start the school. And also, at that time, with money, I didn't know too much about how I was going make it. But I was determined to go. So what I did, I was getting a grant; and they had BEOG then, and the Florida Assistant Grant. So I just politely wrote to one of them, and told them how I was going do, and could they help me. And, lo and behold, the money was there for me. So, it’s a little saying: “You have not if you don’t ask.” So, that’s what we got to do: learn to ask, or you'll never know. You see, another door was opened for me. So I went on there, and I got involved while I was at FAMU in what you call the Sociology Club there, and the Baptist Campus Ministry on campus there. And behold, one of the directors there was from Newberry. His name was Mr. Larry Hunt. I really enjoyed my years going to FAMU. We had at that time, we had the best team—like we had at Lincoln. Lincoln had the best coaches, and we had the best team during that year. And our coach is Mr. Jesse Heard, and he is a nice gentleman. And he also became Buchholz’ coach here. And he’s a very nice gentleman, and all the coaches were. They taught the mens to be men, and to have respect with the young ladies. And, that’s what was missing a lots nowadays. I guess not enough mens is teaching our young mens coming up to be gentlemens. Besides some of the churches, they going to church to get it. We got to start in the homes, as well as when they go to school. So, if you had that kind of coach like what we had back in them days—and also, the PE teachers, the ladies, we had good lady P.E.









teacher I enjoyed at Lincoln. I say, we can have those good teachers that we had back in them days, hey: everything would be all right. But it just that, I know as the time passes, things change. The generation out there, a lot of things that is out there, fast things. So, that’s what’s happening. But, I really, truly believe that those that we can save, we can save. We’ll save them. Like I say, I loved my teachers and my school when I was going to Lincoln, and the closeness that we had.

	MW:	What was your favorite class while you were going there?



	BW:	Oh, my! That’s a good question. My favorite class? I was thinking when I was coming up, I guess—I loved, I guess I shouldn't say, but I loved the P.E. One of my favorite classes. I loved to tumble. I don’t know why I didn’t take up anything like gymnastics. But I guess it wasn't meant to. Sometime I think back; I think I would've did good in track. I guess it come from when I was raised up mostly in the church and everything, I didn't dare ask my parents to be in no organization or anything. So, I wasn't, but I was thinking about one of my classed I loved, because I loved my teacher. So, good. I guess English was one, and I was trying to think of some other class that I loved my teacher, which was so good. Ms.

West, she taught. Back in the day, maybe math class was pretty good, but I know reading class was one of the classes that I loved real good. I guess math, I tackled it; that was a good one. And English. Classes that I really loved. But most of all was P.E. I guess my P.E. class, besides my reading class, and my English.

	MW:	What did you and your friends do outside of school to hang out?









	BW:	Okay, what I did outside of the school, because—since I was raised up the background I was raised up in, religion-like background—I went home, so I wasn't into anything. What I did and I thought was real good: when I was coming up, we had what we called a "springbowl" and back in them days it was a real thick bowl. And all we had to do was put it on a block, so we’d jump it, what we call springbowl. I mean, we had good times! I enjoyed that! And, I think about it now; I guess you can call me what they probably say a tomboy. [Laughter] Because I would climb the trees, I would shoot marbles, and I would beat them guys out of they marbles! So, I was good in shooting marbles. So, my pastime, that’s what I did: I shot marbles, did springbowl, and coming up I played even football with my brothers, yeah! And then play, I guess, softball—I don’t know what they called it then, because in that time, we had to use some broom handles We was good on playing ball in our neighborhood! [Laughter] We had it good. So, those the things I did when I come up. Then my parents, they also had what we call a boiler where we mixed syrup, so we had our own. So therefore, that time of the year that we boiled syrup, so I helped with that. And I enjoyed that, and we had that cane juice, so we had that our own self, on our property. So that’s one of the things I did with the church. And then, before the school year was to begin, our church family, some of the—we had some relatives, they would get they truck, load us, and take us to take us to Silver Springs. That’s the pastime for us! We had a good time, and they'd take us up there during the year before school take back in. And we have a picnic. That was some of the other things we did for pass time in the neighborhood. We’d get together and play; like









I say, we play games: baseball; back in the day, had what they call little go-carts. You made the stuff then. Slingshot. Hey, I did it all! BB gun, shoot birds? Oh, I was good! [Laughter] Mmhm, I used to shoot them. And I can name them too. I ain’t say I shot the bluebird, but the, what you call them? But we had the robins, I remember. And, the mocking birds. Some birds you didn’t shoot, but I remember seeing them around. But them days, but that was the good old days. I was good. Whenever I started out to do something? I could shoot them birds. I could do it. And slingshots, like I said, we had. And shoot and use. And other than that, had the household duties we had to do. There was no playing ‘til you got your housework done! So. But like I say, pass the time, that was what we did. And I also, back in that time, we had—in my house we had a fireplace. So, I enjoyed it. People might think that it—but I enjoyed it, cutting up the wood. I made sure we had plenty of wood. That was something I—and I know a lot of people probably can't say they enjoyed it, but I was one person, I think about that now: I enjoyed chopping up that wood, and providing for my family so we have heat. So. That was the past things we had to, that I did when we got out of school. And taking care of my homework and whatever. That was the time I had a friend, like I say, come over, and, I don’t know.

	MW:	I hear there was some sort of rivalry between A.L. Mebane High School in Alachua and Lincoln High School. Was there any type of rivalry between the two schools?

	BW:	If you heard it, I’m quite sure it was! I was trying to think if it was with one of the other schools or not, but the ones that I knew when we used to play ball and









everything would be, I thought was the school in Ocala. There’s a possibility that it was a rival, but I couldn’t say that I remember what the rivalry was about, because I wasn't—. The only thing I know was the rivalry that we had that I know was in the communities that were close together. That we called the Springhill, and now it’s one called Sugar Hill—my area. So, that’s the only little rivalry that I used to know that the guys had. And, they would say our guys wasn’t allowed in they area, and their guys wasn't allowed in our area. Then I know it’s a certain group of young men. Boy, they would chase you! Because I went, me and my sister, we went out for Halloween. We go out, come across them boys: took off! Nuh-unh! No. That family, you didn’t want to come ‘cross them! That’s the only I can think of, but it’s possible that it was one. But I didn’t get into it, so that was me. Like I said, I was raised up in the church, so a lot of that stuff I didn’t get myself involved in.

	MW:	Well, tell me about what stuff you have—the stuff you brought with you.



	BW:	Well, this is my diploma, what I had when I was going to Lincoln. This is how it look; this is our book. We were called the “Terriers.”

	MW:	The Terriers



	BW:	Yeah, that's what we were. Our colors were red and white. And our teachers. I was in—one association that I was in was called, at that time at Lincoln, was called the Paramedic. I would go at the hospital; back them days, we was called “candy stripe girls.” And, we would work at the hospital, volunteer work, so that was one of my things that I did. But I wasn’t one that say, I did not become a nurse, but I think about, I say I guess I do something—when I help taking care of









family members and things, from my granddaddy, grandmother, and mother, all that. I feel like I had some of that part of the background even though I didn't go into nursing; didn’t take it up. And that’s me, there.

MW:  I can tell; it looks just like you!



	BW:	Yeah. This was our principal’s wife, Mrs. Nealy. She was one of our advisors, and that’s one of the teachers, Ms. Jones. So, I really had a nice time. I enjoyed being a part of this. She went to be a nurse, Ms. Hattie Burnett. This is another; my picture’s not with them; I was in this club, too. And this is Tailoring. But, it was called the Vocational-Industrial Club of America. So, I was a part of this club. And that’s the teacher there, Mr. Mickle, and he taught—what do you call it?

Hairdresser? She wanted me to take up cosmetology. And that’s the Cosmetology teacher. So, all of this comes together. It was coming from this organization. So, I was a part of that, but my picture, I didn’t—I was the that didn’t care about taking pictures. So, I wasn’t there, but I went on the trips that we had and—had good teachers. Ms. Owens was her name, Magnolia Owens. She taught cosmetology, and she was a good teacher. This is Mr. Mickle, who was our tailoring teacher. He taught tennis also, and swimming. And so, that’s what our pool that we have now, one of the pools we have in the community, named after him. And that was the only guy we had in my tailoring class. He was my husband—my ex-husband. But like I say, that was the days, that was the good days, back in them days. And I did see one of my homeroom teachers that I had. His name Mr. Sterritt. He’s really good; that’s a classmate there. That’s our principal at that time, Mr. Dukes. He had a message, and his message was, it









was a school. But it was intended to be a school where teachers could teach, and students who wanted to learn could learn. And we never forgot that motto, and we remember that today, and we carry it on. Because that’s what we are about. It’s those that want to learn. It’s a good motto to carry on any school, because that’s what the school’s supposed to be. The teacher should be able to teach, and no other students should distract or take away that from teacher wanting to teach and the other students there that want to learn. That’s what they didn’t believe in is—. If you went off somewhere on campus, you were had permission only your break. Do not go off campus, and didn’t believe him, police were coming back with you in handcuff. That’s what it was meant. And so, I applaud that. And this is one of our, this is Ms. Daphne Duval. She was a really nice—we had nice assistant principal and the deans. So, they’re both—she just passed, not too long ago. It’s been about two weeks. And this was one of my— that’s Ms. Nealy again, that was over our Paramedic Club. And that was our principal that we used to have, her husband used to be Mr. Nealy. And that’s one of my friends, there. She’s the president of our class right now, [19]69.

Somebody probably already interviewed with her: Barbara Watson Andrews.



	MW:	So, does the class of [19]69 still get together and do stuff?



	BW:	Oh, definitely we do! Fortieth anniversary was last year, but we, due to certain illness, we wasn't able. So what we did, since Lincoln was having our reunion, that whole Lincoln, we said that would be because people’d be all over come, and we had to treat that as our anniversary, so we didn’t have anything our 40th. But the 35th anniversary, we did have. We get together ever year, and we meet









mostly at a restaurants. Mostly, restaurant we been meeting during Christmastime—close to Christmas, before Christmas—is at the Red Lobster. So, a group of us get to meet. And we have meetings, also, and we support organizations also; we give money to different organizations, and we have a fellow classmate that is real sick, and they just taken a trip to go see him. I had gone just before they did. When my niece was on break, she and I went and we visited, so I plan to visit him again. He was one of our football players. He's real sick at this time. I was teaching, see a good picture of him. Mr. Mickle. That’s one of my classmates. [Inaudible 30:48]

	MW:	So, at Lincoln you had White teachers too?



	BW:	Oh, yes. At that time, yes! And hey, we were close. That one of my close teacher there, Mrs. Alexander. And she’s right now part of the the FAMU association, and we work close together. Yes, we definitely had—now, they was real nice too. My home room teacher happened to be one. I had just saw his picture before I came; Mr. Stewart was his name. Thinking of one of the other teachers we had, Mr. Bridge. This is [inaudible 31:32] I called her “Ms. Fine.” [Laughter] Mrs.

Hightower; her husband just passed not long ago.



	MW:	So, it wasn't uncommon to have White schoolteachers at Black high schools?



	BW:	That—well, I never had given it thought that it was uncommon. I guess it seems kind of strange, but we never had gave it a thought. Because when you look at it, I guess when you think about that, because it was an all-Black school, so it was all Black students—not that White students couldn't have come, but I guess they for some reason they chose not to. A lot of time, it be the parents and things, the









adults and things, because children, when they get together, they’ll play and have a nice time. But, that is a good question! I never thought of that. [Laughter] We got along fine! We never saw any colors. And he came to our—James Brown came that year for us.

	MW:	James Brown came to your school?



	BW:	Yeah, we had him for our senior year. So, that's one thing, a blessing. Yes, he did.

	MW:	What was that quote he said?



	BW:	“Stay cool. Stay in school. And stay Black and proud.” That was the name of his record back in the day:

	[In unison]:	“Say it Loud, I'm Black and I'm Proud.”



	BW:	Yes, he was. This was our staff. Pleasant, she's in Tallahassee, young lady there. She was teaching. That was this one, too, my teacher right here, Mr. Stewart. My homeroom teacher. That’s my friend right here today, and her husband’s the one I say taught tailoring. So, they my good friends, close friends, today. And she was a good friend, but she passed. You believe it or not, this is Mr. Daniels. Albert Daniels. He was one of my teachers, political science at Lincoln High School; when I came to Santa Fe College, he was there, and that was my guidance counselor! [Laughter] So, he kept me on the right track to made sure that my grades, it went all, everything smooth. I had him. So, that was a good blessing. Yeah, to have a teacher from high school and be at Santa Fe.

	MW:	So, whenever you graduated from Lincoln, you went to Santa Fe and then to FAMU? Or did you go—









	BW:	Yeah, not right away. When I graduated, it was quite a few years before I started. Because I graduated in [19]69 from high school, and I went to Clearwater. And I lived in Clearwater. And I came back, should be about in probably [19]70s, I want to say [19]73; it was something—I came back from Clearwater. My dad was living in Clearwater, so I was staying with him and my stepmother. She was a short four, four foot seven. But she was so nice. So, I was staying with them, and then I came back to Gainesville. Then, I got me a job at the Holiday Inn, because I was working at Holiday Inn in Clearwater. And I worked at another community college, and then when I was in Clearwater, I‘d taken a class—back in them days, it was some kind of, we didn’t call it “computer,” really. It’s computer, but it’s some other name, I think, for computer. At that time, I was taking up this class, and as I was taking it up I didn't know right then—that "key punch," that’s the name of it. Key punch. In Clearwater I was going to St. Petersburg, catching the bus ‘til I found out they was teaching in Clearwater. So, that’s what I did. I started taking up key punch. Then, I was going to school—I was working, too. I was working at the Holiday Inn first there in Clearwater. And I loved it. It was really nice. Became real close to the head man; and he picked my friend and I— we did such good work that we was picked to go to work at his house. And, then from his house, we end up doing a party for, I guess it was some friends of his; I guess because we was good and we got picked. And then, the friends said they would love to have us travel with them. But we didn’t get to do that. But I just thought about that the reason we would be the only two that we would get picked for that. And then, I left there, and went on to the community hospital and starting









working there. And then, from the community hospital I end up back in Gainesville. I think that’s when my mother was ill. But when I came back, I got me a job at the Holiday Inn here. And, then from there, when I left the Holiday Inn, I went to G.E. And, that’s how I started going to school at Santa Fe. So, it was in the [19]70s before I started going to school. So, I had a little break there. So, when I finished at Santa Fe, I just kept straight on. I went on to FAMU.

	MW:	What was your major?



	BW:	It was Sociology, minor in Social Welfare. So I had a certificate in social welfare. And, I got another certificate while I was there at FAMU in—the College of Arts and Sciences, like I say, “Certificate in Social Welfare,” I got that. And, also, the other certificate was recognition for being in the Student Sociological Association at that time when I was at FAMU. I worked at the Bond while I was at FAMU. I worked at what they call the Bond Community Service Center. I had a teacher— boy, my teacher! That was one teacher that pushed you! We had to do a project, and the project end up getting bigger than I was looking for it, because of we had that teacher. And, what happened, I had a friend from Archer, we was roommates. She was on my team, and we end up starting a senior citizen thanksgiving dinner. So, it started from there, and started going on from year to year. And my mother, she came, and she baked potato pie. That was something, there! Like I say, it got to be big. We had the mayor of Tallahassee there. So, that was a big project while I was there at FAMU. And I loved my teachers there that I had. The head lady of the department, Sociology and Anthropology department, I worked in that area, and her name was Victoria Warner. She was real nice. So









working in that department, and the closeness that I had there. That helped a lots. I also had worked, I was there at the library, also. And, along with social services I did there. I had a close relationship with the lady that was over that department. I was really blessed; because I had the scholarship where you had to work for money. So, I was work study. And, I was working in those departments as a college work study to help. Then, I had a stipend by being in the social work area, had a stipend, so that helped me. So, a lot of times, I would come home on my break before school start; I might go back to Tallahassee broke. I wouldn't have anything, but I knew that I would have something coming in, so I didn't worry about it when I got back. [Laughter] So. But that’s one of the things that we—us that was raised up in the background I had, you learn to be contented and not want so much. And, I think that’s what’s going on today.

People just get too involved in material things, not being satisfied with what they got and what you are blessed with. Go ahead on and pay for it; then you own it. And stop getting in so much debt! And, then it seem to get them, like the state we’re in now. Because a lot of people don’t have to be in the state they’re in. I really, truly believe in that. So, I just thank the Lord for how far I have come.

When I graduated—which I did march with the class of [19]78—but I had to, well, my really actually graduating was [19]79. So, even though I did march with my class in [19]78, but for some reason, I had come for a job, and didn’t find something. So, I had to go back to the school, and I stayed with Dr. Warner. We worked out something. So, I didn't know, but my cousin had told me that I had cum laude. So, there won’t be no picture of me but in this one [indicates









yearbook], because this was the class that I was with. And I was proud to be with this class. I often wonder after some of my peoples here back in the day. Yeah, I went—[inaudible 42:55] because they call it “fro.” When I graduated from Lincoln, I had that straight hair. So, I have the pictures side by side. That’s Lincoln; that’s FAMU. But like I say, I enjoyed those days. When I graduated from FAM, I had a job, which was working with juveniles, waiting for me. So, I went to work, started off, and that was in Lancaster, working with juveniles. Even though I didn’t have to be there, because that was real lower, it didn’t call for no degree. The lady told me I could leave when I wanted to, but I really enjoyed it. And I say, “Well, I can stay there.” And I stayed there until they closed that down, and then I went to work in other various jobs. And like I say, I feel like I did good. [Indicates flyer] This was for our 35th anniversary.

	MW:	Since teachers had a big role in your success, do you feel like that might be an issue with today's society? That teachers don't care as much?

	BW:	Yeah, in some ways. A lot of us feel that if you went to Lincoln, even though it was segregated, that it was a difference. Now, with the teachers, even though we had teachers that was, as you pointed out, they was integrated; but we had a real closeness. There was real concern. Our Black teachers, they knew our parents, so most a lot of peoples knew your parents. It was different, because a lot of those good teachers—you have a few of those teachers, still, now; and you have some good teachers. But it’s too many distraction, and you got a different generation of children, too. That’s another thing. It’s more the children and they raising babies. This is what I say: "babies raising babies." So, they don't care









what they say or do. You can see that in the type of clothing they wear. Because there ain't no way we'd be wearing our clothes off our behind, and all exposed.

And I say a lot of stuff is Hollywood, too. Because back in them days, when you breastfeed your baby, you cover up! Back in them days, they covered they breast. These days, they don't care! Now, you got to where you pregnant, you can show yourself. And, that’s Hollywood’ mess. When we was coming up, we had decency. And they got now, them ladies don't care! It’s no imagination for the man. It’s out there, anybody can see it. I feel like if you married to somebody, that's behind your closed doors for him to see, not the whole public. So, that’s where it got—I can't say, there still some teachers that care. But what’s happening, some of the children. Too many things are happening about the children. They taking over a lots in the classroom, and it takes a lots from the teacher to try to deal with these problems. Therefore, sometimes, maybe the kids might be some don't like it. Because you got to have the teachers and the parents on the same page, and so, when you don't have the parents and the teachers on the same page—and like I say, the babies having babies? So they don’t know how to teach their kids what they need to be taught themselves how to work out things and problems. Therefore, the kids, what they say? We try not to let them get left behind, but they troubled kids, that some of them do. They destroy some of the teachers’ room. It’s kind of hard, if the parents and the teacher not working together. Parents going to the school, showing out, wanting to jump on the teachers, and believe everything they children say. That’s sad!









	MW:	Yes, ma'am. Did you find that it was better to be a Terrier as it was to be a Rattler? Like, what atmosphere did you like the better?

	BW:	They were both the same, because we had some of the same—we had good teachers. When I went there, FAMU was like family. So, that’s the same thing the Terriers; like family. We probably had some of the same teachers. Probably, I’m trying to figure out—because, like, Herb, he went to FAMU. So we have some like family, so it’s just like it’s family. To me, they have that principle, of being a family. It’s about the same as FAMU and Lincoln. Because I did have that, the teachers there, close.

	MW:	What does Barack Obama being elected as President of the United States mean to you?

	BW:	Well, one thing it means to me, that lets you know that it don't make no difference what color you are. You can be whatever you want to be. Even though, it may have surprised some people that it came this early. But then, it goes to show you that if there's a way—I mean, like they say, if it’s a will, the desires of the heart, things can happen! So, to me, it was a big step. And being in the society that we're in, not to say that a lot of changes going—it’s people be looking for things to take effect right away. It’s a little saying: “Rome wasn't built in one day.” So, it going take some time for certain things to take place. And we as peoples, we can’t always—like this, myself: I don't care what president is in office. They don't dictate how my outcome going to be. Because when you start thinking that this person is supposed to take precedent over what your outcome, then that means you putting man before God. So, as long as I keep God up front, and knowing









that anything I want and ask for, he will allow me to have it—if it’s for me to have. Because a lot of things that sometime we ask for, whatever, is not the will. And it’s a little saying say: “It'll be right on time, whatever you ask for.” Sometime, we be putting ourselves and doing to rush things. So, what we got to learn to do: whatever situation that’s going on, we got to pray about it. But, see what happen, people let that anger get in the way, and they forget about things can be, and happen. Even like the oil situation, I was thinking about that. I say, you know, “You people are getting so upset,” this and that. The most main thing what they got to do, we got to pray for God to direct them to take care of the problem. It’s human, human error. So, that’s what we got to learn. If we stay focused, and know that there is a God, and we pray, we’ll be on the same. But these things are just happening for a reason. President Obama being in the seat, whatever or however he got there, it was meant to be. So, that’s what the people got to understand. And, if they want him out of there—[Laughter] some of them feel like they want—hey! But I say, long as they go about the right way, voting. But this lashing out and a lot of stuff? People got to stop that, and just thank God that we have been a nation, we’ve been blessed. I look at even this town of Gainesville; a lot of people might not see it, but I thank God every day. We haven’t been having the storm that some people have had over the years. We’ve been blessed here in this city. And I say, “Well, it got to be the prayers.” And that’s the one thing I’d be scared of right there, is that that be taken away from us. Like some of the rural area. Prayer—where we won’t be able to have Bibles or whatever. It’s like the school; talking about take prayer and stuff out the school! That should never,









ever happen! So, I feel like him being in the seat, he have his time, and it was a real big step, I will say, by having a Black president at this time. Matter of fact, I worked on that campaign. [Laughter] [Shows certificate] I got that working on the campaign!

	MW:	You worked on the campaign that year? BW:	Here, locally.

	MW:	"Zone 3 Office Manager Award."



	BW:	And the lady that be in the paper who’s over it now, Ms. Pat McCullough? Yep, I was close to her. Yep, so. I would say, at least I got the chance to see it, this happen in my lifetime.

	MW:	Is there anything that you wanted to touch on that we didn't talk about?



	BW:	I'm here for you. [Laughter] It’s anything that you want to talk about, seem like I might have missed?

	MW:	So, you said your mom was a minister?



	BW:	No, my grandmother. My grandmother, my step-grandfather, I have cousins, nieces and nephews, that are ministers. So, that’s why I say I come from a family of ministers. [Laughter] Yeah, my grandmother, she was a—what did I do with [inaudible 54:36]? What we had this year, when we had our reunion, and I have a picture of her in it because I did a ad. Of my grandmother, and a picture of her and my mother. They’re two very important people in my life. And my aunt too.

Oh, this is the paper where we had our reunion this year, our Lincoln reunion that we had. And he’s a FAMU grad, he was our speaker here. And he’s a FAMU graduate.









	MW:	Is that Bill McRae?



	BW:	Yes. Yeah, so I helped with part of that. Only thing I can say is, I’m proud, even though sad that we had to close our school, but I was in Clearwater when that happened. That was my brother, that was they class. So, I didn't come. Then I heard about it, how they all had to come together somewhere, and they had they graduation. But I wish they could’ve had it at the school for them. But unfortunately, that didn’t happen. Yeah. So, I got to be one of the ones that was the last ones to be in halls of Lincoln. I go there when we have reunion; this year, we had breakfast there. So I been going, and participating in activities.

	MW:	Was it a bittersweet feeling to know that it was going to close?



	BW:	Yes, it was. When I graduated I left right away, and I went to live in Clearwater, but yes, it was a bittersweet. Because the fact that, like I said, we had the closeness that, I’m quite at that time, lot of people was wondering what was going to happen with our kids. And, you can see some changes, people say, because of the way our kids talk. We can tell that they got it from some of them other kids! [Laughter] All right? We didn't allow some of that stuff. Because we didn’t tell our kids to talk back at they parents; and we didn't have that when we was coming up. Like I say, it was respect. But after that, you could tell a whole of things happened, changed. Anyway, I had the fortune to talk with one of the principals there from the old Lincoln, before he passed, and I had a good talk with him. And I really enjoyed it. But the thing he was saying, he had to be in this building, and when they had the big administrative meeting, he’d be listening out the window. That’s sad. They integrate Lincoln, he couldn't be a part of them.









And, he need to be knowing what’s going on, but he had to listen out another window.

	MW:	So, you're saying whenever they integrated the high schools, whatever decisions that were being made about what would happen—

	BW:	That was the old Lincoln. The one before this one came. I got the chance to talk to that man. And that was a blessing to hear him say what he had to go through with, by it being segregated. So, I felt like—because you had to get books hand- me-down, too. So, I felt like, at the time, I guess integration come about, thought it would be much better because of that situation. Because, like, the kids had to be bused and whatever. Even though I think we could have managed, and it should’ve been where bussing, they didn't want to bus the White kids over the area. That’s what most people say it was. Now, they got the school in here, pretty much took it, but they didn't want to mix. Wasn't to say that we carried on and stuff; it was more the others. And that’s like it is today; certain things, people, whatever should be should be, because that’s what God said. It’s not going to be any segregating in his kingdom. You know, all come together as one. So, that’s the way it should be. It make some little time for that to happen, but that’s the way it should be. We should be integrated. Because if we go back to segregation, what’s going happen? We’re going to be lacking. Be same it was, or worse. Like books and whatever, and funds. And that’s what happen; lack of getting funds and whatever. So, they keep our school open; then, when they didn't want to integrate, and bus them from over to come—that’s what happened. But, when that big mess came about, it was so strange. Because Eastside, in a









way, almost you could say segregated. When they had them, because when it came time for them to have they prom, they had a White and they had a Black. [Laughter] And so, that’s about the biggest mess I could ever hear! But as time went on, it’s gotten better. So I think that it’d be good if our school could’ve stayed kept open, and they would bus the students like they should’ve been. And had the good teachers that we did have. Because we definitely can use those strong teachers that know our kids and can work with our kids.

	MW:	Is there any life regrets that you have? Something you wish you would have did that you didn’t, or—?

	BW:	The only thing I thought about when I think about it: wondered what it would be like if I would have ran track or something like that. [Laughter] I felt like I was a good runner. But I really felt like track or gymnastics, that was two things. About the only things that I can see that I kind of missed. I think to try it out would’ve been.

	MW:	Well, thank you so much for coming in to talk with me.



	BW:	Well, I hope I been able to help you out in whatever; kind of going on rambling. I thought it about it: “I should’ve wait until you ask me!” [Laughter]

[Break in recording]



	BW:	See, that’s what I have them, who had the most of they classmate there for the reunion? And we had the most, so we, our [19]69 class, we got the spirit award. So, a new class—I brought this paper for you; let’s see. This part on Lincoln—I think it started on this page. Let’s see; it doesn’t mention anything there.

	MW:	Says “Class of [19]69 was the most spirited.”









	BW:	Oh, you see it? Oh, okay! [Break in recording]

	BW:	But the guys—he was our teacher. He missing—he had a ring on his finger, and the girl say, “Can I look at it?” He mess around and took the ring off his finger, and the girl put it in her bosom. He couldn’t get it now; and he married, and he couldn’t get his ring back. So that’s why I was thinking that those teachers, you got to be very careful of all kinds of stuff; especially, I was thinking about our guys. I wish somebody can talk with them, so they ought to know; might be some role-making that y’all might need to do. Something that you can bring up when you all do to help teachers though, when they come out and be teaching. Mens need to be aware of these things and tricks that young ladies are doing. And now they got they cell phones in the classroom; and they provoke and do stuff so they get the teacher fired. That’s—I just don’t understand that. So, my heart is out to any y’all that becoming teachers. That’s what I’m talking about, because you got your work cut out for you. I know I got a sister that’s a teacher, and she had a special list of kids that have behavioral problems. And that’s why I mention, I kind of, I had to be careful about mentioning that. Because we got some parents are teaching their children to act out to get—where somebody ask me, “What is that?” “A crazy chick,” they call it. And I say to somebody, “You know what going happen.” Suppose that child want to go to the Service. He done played and act crazy, won’t be able to go to the Service. I say, these young, able Black people need to work! And if you can get some of them to working, fine. So it’ll be some money for you, because I ain’t, you ain’t getting my money. I done worked all









these years; I’m getting my money. But these other people that’ll come, I feel sorry, I say, because you got a lot of people don’t want to work, young people; we all got them in our family.

[End of interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, July 17, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019