AAHP 478; Threat; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 478 Sophia Loren Threat Interviewed by Deidre Houchen on January 19, 2017

1 hour and 9 minutes | 35 pages



Abstract: Ms. Sophia Threat shares her family history and life experiences growing up in Groveland, Florida. She shares her memories attending integrated schools. Her family worked in the citrus groves in the surrounding areas and she would work after school to help her family. She discusses how she was the niece of Samuel Shepherd and Walter Irvin who were part of the Groveland Four case. She recalls how her mother told her that they were sentenced and would not speak of it again. She reflects how it was something no one would talk about but everyone would know about. She discusses her over two-decade career as a corrections officer in Groveland. She reflects on the violence she witnessed against Black inmates.



Keywords: [Groveland, Florida; Groveland Four Case; Correctional Officer; African American History]



AAHP 478

Interviewee: Sophia Threat Interviewer: Deidre Houchen

Date of Interview: January 19, 2017



	H:	Good afternoon, I’m Deidre Houchen, it is January 19 and I am here with Ms.



Sophia Threat at her home conducting an interview related to the Groveland Four project. Thank you, Ms. Sophia for having me.

	T:	You’re welcome.



	H:	Could we start by you telling me your full—first, middle, and last—name and your date of birth?

	T:	Sophia Loren Threat, 8-12-1964. H:	How do we spell Loren?

	T:	L-O-R-E-N.



	H:	Okay, great. Where were you born, Ms. Sophia? T:	I was born in Groveland.

	H:	You were born in Groveland. T:	Born and raised in Groveland. H:	And who did you live with?

	T:	My mom, Louise Threat and E.T. Threat, my dad. H:	And does E.T .stand for anything?

	T:	No, just E.T.



	H:	The initials E and the initials T. Periods between ‘em?



	T:	Yeah, periods between ‘em. That’s the way he writes it. E.-T. H:	Do you have brothers and sisters?

	T:	Yes.



	H:	How many brothers and sisters?







T:

I have three brothers and two sisters and they have passed—

H:

All of them have passed?—

T:

I’m the only girl left. Um-hm.

H:

Would you tell me all of their names? Would you mind?

T:

Sure. I’ll start with the oldest first. Aricia Broxen.

H:

And how do I spell Aricia?

T:

A-R-I-C-I-A. And Gerald Threat, he’s the next.

H:

G-E-R-A-L-D?

T:

Yes. Voliazzl, V-O-L-I-A-Z-Z-L. And her last name was Hester ‘cause she was



married at the time. Myself, Sophia Threat. Floyd Threat, and Miguel Threat.

H:

And the first one I noticed their last name was Broxen—

T:

She was married.

H:

Okay, so these are all children of both your mother and father.

T:

Yes, well Aricia is my dad’s. But, we’re all family—

H:

I understand.

T:

I mean she’s still my sister, so, you know.

H:

Where did you live in Groveland? Where did your parents live, do you remember



the address?

T:

Yes, 240 Beverly Dr in Groveland.

H:

Who were your neighbors?

T:

Oh wow, we had George Thompson, they lived right next door. We also had the



Webbs—the Wells I’m sorry, W-E-L-L-S. And we also had the Webbs, Harris; we





used to call her Ms. Bot. We also had Ms. Alice, that was it on that side then it started going around the corner.

	H:	When we took that photo tour in Groveland, were we around where your parents- where you lived growing up?

	T:	No. Now if we would have made a left, you know when we were coming down the dirt road going out to the graveyard.

	H:	Yes.



	T:	If we would’ve made a right on that other dirt road that would’ve took you down to my house.

	H:	So if I’m correct, that area was kinda around that, near the train depot where we took that—

	T:	We took the left and then hit the dirt road, yeah.



	H:	Okay. All right, great. And was that an all-African American area? Were all your neighbors African American?

	T:	Yes. And still are. [laughter]



	H:	So that area, is it still all predominantly African American? T:	Yes.

	H:	And there are people still living in that area? T:	Yes.

	H:	Are any of the people who you just mentioned, their families, still over there?



T:  The Webbs are still there, Ms. Alice, she’s in a nursing home, but her home is still there. The Wells, they’ve moved. That’s pretty much it. Mr. Griffin, Johnny Griffin, he’s still there. He was there during that time.







H:

When did your family leave that area?

T:

We’re still there.

H:

So you still have your family home there?

T:

Um-hm, we actually just tore it down, our family home, we just tore it down. And



we’re building a brand new home there.

H:

Wow, wonderful! And that’s on the same land?

T:

Yes.

H:

Oh we’ve got to go there one day Ms. Sophia.

T:

Okay, okay.

H:

That’s wonderful.

T:

It’s a clean lot right now ‘cause they just tore it down and leveled everything and



we’re getting ready to build a new house, yeah. Actually my brother’s gonna be—



Miguel, the baby— he’s building and it’s gonna be still the family home.

H:

That’s wonderful. Was there a church, did you attend church as a child?

T:

Oh yes.

H:

What church did you attend?

T:

Greater Harmony Missionary Baptist Church. And I still attend today.

H:

You do? Is that church in the Groveland community?

T:

Yes. It’s actually in Parkwood.

H:

And tell me what Parkwood is.

T:

It’s another Black, African American neighborhood.

H:

Close? Real close?





	T:	Actually it’s behind— you know where my grandmother’s house was?— right there, where we turned in on that land?

	H:	Yes.



	T:	If you take that road straight down and make a left, you’re in Parkwood. And then you go around the corner, our church is on the right side.

	H:	By that land you’re talking about, you’re talking about— T:	Where my grandmother’s house was, on fifty.

	H:	I think I know where we’re talking about, I just want to make sure, but we all parked our cars right there on the side and got out and walked around and this was across from Earnest Thomas’s house?

	T:	Right, yes.



	H:	Yes, okay all right.



	T:	So if you take that road straight down to the stop sign and make a left, you’re on Parkwood loop.

	H:	What I’m coming to understand is Groveland, Stuckey Loop, Mascot, now Parkwood, these were all— sounds like Groveland might have been the biggest— but there were all small, African American communities in Lake County around that area. Did Parkwood have its own government? Was it an actual town or just an area?

	T:	No, it’s just a neighborhood.



	H:	How long were your parents- were your grandparents I think I want to ask, members of that church as well?

	T:	No. My grandmother was a member of the—





	H:	That’s fine. I’m gonna pause it for one moment. [Break in recording] We were talking about your grandmother attending— you said the name of the church again is Greater Beth—

	T:	No that was my church. Her church was Church of God by Faith. H:	So that’s the church—

	T:	My grandmother and my grandfather was a member of. H:	Those were your father’s parents or?

	T:	My mother’s parents. H:	What are their names?

	T:	Delilah Irvin and Cleveland Irvin. H:	Where was that church located?

	T:	At the time it was located across the Branch, which is another little community. H:	When you say across the Branch is the name of the community Branch, or?

	T:	No, it’s just what we call it ‘cause it was ‘cross town.



	H:	Tell me how you are related to one of the members of the Groveland Four and which member.

	T:	I am the niece of Shepherd and Irvin.



	H:	So you’re the niece of Samuel Shepherd and Walter Irvin because one’s brother married the other’s—

	T:	Sister.



	H:	Sister. So Delilah— T:	Delilah Irvin.







H:

Irvin was—your grandmother—was the mother of Walter Irvin. Where did you go



to school?

T:

Groveland High School.

H:

What elementary school?

T:

Groveland Middle School and Groveland Elementary. [laughter]

H:

When you went to those three schools were they integrated?

T:

Yes ma’am.

H:

All of them?—

T:

By the time.

H:

By the time—

T:

By the time I got there yes. Yes, ‘cause I was born in 1964.

H:

Okay, so the schools had integrated prior to that.

T:

Yes.

H:

That’s not the case in all of places in Florida. [laughter]

T:

I know, I know.

H:

That’s good.

T:

My brother—the older, Gerald—he wasn’t, and then it became integrated.

H:

What stories, if any, did you hear growing up about Walter and Samuel’s life and



what had happened to them in the Groveland case?

T:

All I knew was they didn’t do it, and it was a big trial and he was sentenced—he



was found guilty—and he served like eighteen years.

H:

And by he you’re talking about Walter.

T:

Walter, um-hm, my uncle.





	H:	I’m interested to know. Do you remember or did you hear anything about your churches, the response of Black churches to this going on?

	T:	No.



	H:	No they had no response; you didn’t hear anyone ever talk about it?



	T:	I didn’t hear anybody talk about it, ever. Even my mom, she never talked about it. I know it was hurting her inside, but she never talked about it. She didn’t want to talk about it. It just was too painful for her.

	H:	Do you know of any response that places like Black churches had when it happened in 1949, you know, as a response?

	T:	No I hadn’t heard of anybody. Any response on that. H:	I can’t imagine—

	T:	People was just scared to talk about it, back then.



	H:	I hear you, it does sound particularly with the facts of the case and the riot that happened in Groveland that people—

	T:	People just scared to talk about it, you know, you bring that up and their eyes get big and “I don’t want to talk about it.” It’s like a plague or something.

	H:	What about your church’s response to the city ordinance that happened last year?

	T:	No.



	H:	So there’s been no official response from any pulpit on any of this? T:	Unh-uh, none.

	H:	Has there been any support, response from any Black officials? T:	No.





	H:	So it sounds like there hasn’t been like a kind of united community— T:	No.

	H:	Yes. So all the work has been largely your family’s? T:	Yes. The Shepherd and the Irvin’s families.

	H:	All right, I’ma leave that line of questioning and go back to your life growing up.



What did your father and mother do for work?



	T:	My dad, well, his earlier years he worked for Dick Watson and he drove trucks.



He also worked in fields, in the orange fields.



	H:	Who’s Dick Watson?



	T:	It was a big company, mechanic-type company, that at the time was in Claremont.

	H:	Was that the first job you know of him having even before you were born? T:	Um-hm.

	H:	For the majority of his adult career while he was raising kids, he was working for this person Dick Watson and also working in the groves.

	T:	Yeah, and then after that he started driving trucks. H:	And what about your mom? Did she work?

	T:	My mom she worked at the hospital. H:	What did she do at the hospital?

	T:	She was a maid, in housekeeping. H:	And which hospital was that?

	T:	South Lake.



	H:	As I told you—





	T:	And she worked also at the Lake Highlands nursing facility. H:	As a caregiver there?

	T:	She worked as a, I guess you could call it now, CNAs?



	H:	Okay, that’s what I thought. Where did your parents shop? What grocery stores were around when you were a child in Groveland?

	T:	[laughter] Sewell’s and, oh my goodness I can’t think of his name, but the store’s still there.

	H:	And these are integrated grocery stores. T:	Um-hm, yeah.

	H:	Prior to that, when Groveland was more of a segregated community, what was the Black grocery store?

	T:	It was the only place, that’s where you went.



	H:	Same store. Did the practices change of how you were able to get groceries? T:	Unh-uh, no.

	H:	As I told you, I had some questions; I’m interested in the experience of the groves of working with the groves. What stories do you remember of how that was, of working in the groves?

	T:	Are you talking about the fruit groves? H:	Yes, the fruit groves.

	T:	Oh, wow. [laughter]



	H:	And whatever other groves, but I’m interested in farm work. T:	Well we did a lot of that. [laughter]

	H:	When we say fruit groves are we talking about citrus groves?





	T:	Citrus groves.



	H:	Do you remember the names, particularly of any of the citrus groves? T:	Oh my goodness no.

	H:	Not one!



	T:	No, but there was so many- we went to so many. No I don’t remember the names.

	H:	[coughing] Excuse me. When you say “we went to so many” who’s the “we”? T:	My family, I mean the whole family went. It was like a family thing.

	H:	Mom, dad—



	T:	Mom, dad, all the kids, yes— H:	Went to work in the groves. T:	Went to work in the groves. H:	What’d you wear?

	T:	Old clothes. No school clothes. You get out of school clothes, change into your work clothes, which is old clothes that you could throw away: long pants, long sleeves, old tennis shoes that got holes in ‘em that’s what you wore ‘cause you were out in the dirt all the time.

	H:	So you went and did this? You worked in the groves? T:	Yes, yes.

	H:	How old were you?



	T:	Oh wow, I’d say seven, eight, I can remember.



	H:	These were the groves in Groveland and the surrounding area? T:	Yeah Groveland and the surrounding areas.





	H:	You’ve gotta paint me a picture of that. How would- your whole family would drive up to whatever the grove was—

	T:	Um-hm.



	H:	Do you remember talking to anybody, the farm manager, your parents? T:	No my parents did that.

	H:	Then you—



	T:	We’d get out and we’d be fussing you know, we didn’t want to be there but we were there so. If you had boxes or if you had buckets or even if you had a sack— a fruit sack— that’s what you’d use. The bigger kids had the sacks, and the grown people, and we had the boxes or the buckets. We’d either pick ‘em up off the ground ‘cause they’d been dropping ‘em all day long. After school they’d come and get us, we’d change and go out and we’d pick up what they’d dropped all day. Or, we’d start picking off the tree while they’re starting to drop; we’d pick off the bottom half, what we could reach. And we’d take it to the bin and dump it.

	H:	Did you see other families out there doing this? T:	Yeah. There was other families, other people.

	H:	Who else worked in the groves at that time? So we’re talking about late 1960s.



	T:	Wow, um probably the 70s by the time we got there. Oh wow, there were quite a few families out there.

	H:	Quite a few families. Was it all African American workers? T:	Mostly.

	H:	Mostly, and those who were not, what were they? What race and where did they come from?





	T:	Mexicans.



	H:	So African American and Mexican workers. Do you remember the people working on the grove at that time being folks who lived in the Groveland area?—

	T:	Um-hm.



	H:	Or was anybody migrant, coming in from someplace else?



	T:	There were some migrants that were coming in because of the work. H:	African American migrants or?

	T:	African American migrants.



	H:	Okay so both. What about Mexican migrants? T:	There were a few, but not very many.

	H:	How long would you stay out there and work? T:	Oh my god, seemed like forever. [laughter]

	H:	Too long?



	T:	Yes, but I mean, back then it was—I figured, say we get out of school at 3:00. So 4:00 we’re at the field, and we stay there until we get it all up. And if it’s dark, we’re getting them all up. I remember some days- some evenings, it’s pitch black out there and we gotta use the goat lights to see, vehicle lights to see where the fruit is so you can get ‘em up off the ground. We wouldn’t leave until we get ‘em all up. That was the way of life back then, that’s the way the parents made the money to feed us, clothe us, pay bills.

	H:	Did your parents ever talk about their relationship to the managers and the people who ran the groves?

	T:	No.





	H:	Did they mention anything about how they were treated as workers in the groves?

	T:	No, I never heard anything like that.



	H:	As an adult, do you have any sense of how African Americans were treated working in the groves?

	T:	Yes. As an adult, I have my own opinion. [laughter] H:	And what’s your opinion?

	T:	My opinion is they were robbed. They didn’t make any money. And, as kids you really don’t know ‘cause they’re the adults and my parents never really talked about any of that stuff around us. As I became an adult, I’m like “oh my god, you guys worked for free.” ‘Cause you know sometimes they didn’t take social security out, you know, and they were workin’ hard back then. So all those years were like for nothing, they were robbed because there was no social security taken out so those years are like wasted years. And now, they’re livin’ on maybe a thousand dollars a month, maybe, for social security. And all those years…

	H:	So how were they paid, if the farm manager wasn’t paying social security? T:	They paid cash.

	H:	They paid cash, okay.



	T:	Later in years they started doing the check thing, but when it first started everybody got paid cash.

	H:	When you say “when it first started,” can you tell me about what year your dad started workin’ in those fields?

	T:	Oh, wow. As long as I can remember. . . When I was a little bitty thing.





	H:	I’m asking about even before you were born. T:	I’m sure.

	H:	You’re sure?



	T:	Yeah, I’m sure.



	H:	I might call you back and ask you to see if we can try to figure out. Was it 1940?



Was it, around what year he started that work?



	T:	Ok, well my dad was in the military, too so.



	H:	Do you know what year he came out of the military?



	T:	No I do not but my dad is 93 he was in World War II. Thank god I still have him. H:	Yes! What year was he born?

	T:	1923. May 8.



	H:	May 8, 1923. And what year was your mother born? T:	March 30, 1930.

	H:	So your dad would have been around 20 something in the [19]40s when the groves were definitely booming in Groveland and folks, many African Americans were working. He would’ve been in his thirties, right around turning thirty, when Sheriff McCall picked up all the Groveland men. Well, except for Earnest Thomas, who wouldn’t have been able to be picked up. But part of the story, at least the story that’s documented in the Devil in the Grove book and some of the FBI papers, is that Sheriff McCall was not too happy that these two men returning from military service wouldn’t work in the grove.

	T:	Right.





	H:	And that you’re family, Walter Irvin was really targeted because he was still wearin’ his military uniform and refused to go work in the grove. Have you heard that view of what happened before?

	T:	Yeah, I’ve heard that.



	H:	What are your thoughts?



	T:	I think that they thought Walter and Samuel was too good to have that uniform on. Well, I wouldn’t say too good. Should not have that uniform on because of their skin color, even though they did fight in the war. They were in the military. And they should be in the groves, doin’ fieldwork, like the rest of the Black people. And that’s not what they wanted to do.

	H:	Why were so many. . . I’m trying to understand how and why so many Black folks in Groveland ended up workin’ in the grove.

	T:	Because that’s all they had.



	H:	That was the only job that was available. T:	That was it.

	H:	And do you know how Blacks were recruited to work in the groves? T:	No.

	H:	No? Okay. When did your family stop doing that work? T:	I was in high school.

	H:	Really? You were in high school? T:	Yes. [laughter]

	H:	Do you know how much money as children you all made? T:	I do not.





	H:	So it’s not like you were handed a paycheck; your whole family was—



	T:	Yeah, it was given to my mom or my dad and that took care of everything. H:	Yes, they paid the bills from—

	T:	Yeah, they fed us, clothe us, we had everything that we needed. Not what we wanted, but what we needed.

	H:	Did all your brothers and sisters work in the groves as well?



	T:	Sure did. Well, until my brother left to go to the military. And he went to the military and he’s still there I said “don’t leave, don’t leave.” [laughter]

	H:	What year did you graduate high school? T:	[19]82.

	H:	Up through all the [19]70s. Were there other African American families- children, like you, teenagers workin’ in the groves in the [19]70s as well?

	T:	Not really. I didn’t like that, it’s like why do we gotta go? But that’s the way it was.



	H:	And you said you don’t remember any of the names of those groves that you worked.

	T:	Unh-uh, no.



	H:	But could you show me where one of them was if we went out to Groveland and looked?

	T:	I think so, I think so.



	H:	Are there other families around now that you know that have this history? Is there anyone else I could speak to who could tell me more about the experience of working in the groves? Particularly way back, but also up through the [19]70s.

	T:	Wow. I think my uncle and them, they were also workin’ the groves.







H:

Which uncle?

T:

Eddy.

H:

Oh, okay I’ll talk with him about it then.

T:

I’m trying to think of another. . . I know there were other families, but I’m trying to



recall. . . I can’t think of any right now.

H:

That’s okay. Growing up you did not hear really much at all about the—

T:

No.

H:

Did you—

T:

I knew because my mom told me.

H:

What did she tell you?

T:

That her brother was sentenced to life, well actually on death row and then they



committed it to life. But, for supposedly rapin’ a White lady.

H:

Do you remember about how old you were when she told you?

T:

Oh, wow. Maybe eight.

H:

Really?

T:

Maybe eight, yeah.

H:

Did you meet Walter Irvin?

T:

Um-hm. I was a little bitty thing but yeah, I remember him.

H:

So you met him after he was released?

T:

Yes.

H:

Do you remember your mom going to visit him? Did she go visit him?

T:

She went to visit but I don’t remember.







H:

What about between your brothers and sisters? Did you all talk about? No. And



did you not talk about it—

T:

It was like a non-talking subject in our house.

H:

Like off limits, taboo this is not something we talk about.

T:

Right, you know, she’d say what she said and that was it. She just didn’t want to



talk about it and if we’d bring it up, it’s like “I’m not talkin’ about that.”

H:

So you were clear this was off limits?

T:

Yeah, if you knew my mom you knew it was off limits when she said “that’s it.”

H:

Were you close with your brothers and sisters?

T:

Oh yeah, oh yeah.

H:

And your mom and dad?

T:

Yeah. That’s my mom and that’s my dad.

H:

Yes. I’m looking at pictures.

T:

That’s me, I’m really close with my mom.

H:

What year did she pass?

T:

2011.

H:

Recently. I’m sorry to hear that.

T:

Yeah. . .

H:

What are your memories of growing up in Groveland other than workin’ in the



groves?

T:

For me it was good. We were back in the [19]70s, but for me it was good.

H:

And by good, you mean you enjoyed your childhood you have happy memories?

T:

Oh yeah, oh yeah. Happy memories.





	H:	What did you do after you graduated high school?



	T:	I started working at Walt Disney. I worked there for a while and then I worked at McDonald’s also and Lake County Sheriff’s Office, that’s where I retired from.

	H:	What did you do at Lake County Sheriff’s Office? T:	I was a correction officer.

	H:	Okay. Where? You were a correction officer at what facility? T:	At the Lake County Sheriff’s Office.

	H:	At the sheriff’s office?



	T:	Um-hm. At the Lake County Jail. I worked for the sheriff but I worked the jail side. H:	And how many years did you work there?

	T:	Twenty-six and a half. H:	That’s a long time.

	T:	Yes.



	H:	Congratulations on retiring. T:	Thank you, I’m enjoyin’ it.

	H:	Good for you. How was that? Working for Lake County Sheriff’s Office, which is at the heart of the Groveland case.

	T:	Um-hm. But he was no longer there. McCall was no longer there. But, you know, you still have that atmosphere a little bit.

	H:	And when you say atmosphere, what kind of atmosphere?



	T:	Like you still knew your place and don’t step out of it, you know, just do your job and that was it. But that was when I first started, it was like that. And then it





shifted a little bit because times was changing a little bit. It shifted a little bit, but you could still tell. I mean, even today.

	H:	So it was a predominantly White, or definitely White-run sheriff’s office when you started?

	T:	Um-hm. Well there was a few— H:	A few Blacks—

	T:	They were startin’ to hire a few Blacks when I started. H:	But the folks running- the sheriff was still White?

	T:	Oh yeah, yes.



	H:	And the deputies? T:	Um-hm.

	H:	I would assume that’s the tier right under the sheriff? T:	Yes.

	H:	Those are still majority White? T:	Yes. Even today.

	H:	Even today?



	T:	Even today. I don’t think they have any out there, maybe one or two, in the whole department out there on the road right now.

	H:	One or two Blacks?



	T:	Um-hm. That’s why I said it really hasn’t changed.



	H:	Yeah, so this kind of prevalence of White folks running it, that’s what you’re talking about.

	T:	Yes.





	H:	It kind of—



	T:	Now the jail part, it’s a little different. H:	How is the jail part different?

	T:	Because there’s more Blacks working there, on the hiring part yes.



	H:	When you say on the hiring part you mean there are more Blacks hired? T:	Um-hm.

	H:	In the jail side?



	T:	In the jail side.



	H:	What about the way people are treated by the sheriff’s department now? T:	The jail side? Or, on the road side?

	H:	Let’s talk about the jail side first.



	T:	Yeah ‘cause that’s more of what I know about. It depends on who’s working.



	H:	What’s the best case scenario? On the jail side. So when you say it depends I’m trying to figure out the variation. Some people are treated—

	T:	Some are treated fairly and some are not treated fairly.



	H:	What stands out in your mind? I know something must stand out in your mind when you say some are not treated fairly. Do you want to tell me more about that?

	T:	No.



	H:	Okay, I understand that you might not want to. The reason I’m asking is based on the Groveland story and how terribly those four were mistreated. Do you still see that kind of treatment going on?

	T:	Not as in your face, but it still happens.





	H:	And by it—



	T:	Not on a large scale.



	H:	When you say it still happens. There are many things that happened in that Groveland case I mean there was outright beating. Would you say that kind of behavior still happens?

	T:	When I first started, yes. But then it subsided. At the beginning of my career it was like that.

	H:	It was still like that? T:	Yeah.

	H:	Was it only Blacks who were beaten when you first started? T:	The majority, yes.

	H:	How’d you deal with that?



	T:	I had to look deep and say “Hey, you can’t do that around me. It’s not right, please don’t do that.” It’s hard because I know my job and that’s not part of my job. Care control and custody is my job. If the situation warrants where you have to go in on someone, then yes ‘cause I’m not getting hurt I don’t want you to get hurt and I don’t my other officers to get hurt. So it kind of depends—if I see someone that’s getting out of control I stop ‘em—things like that.

	H:	I’m hearing you saying you had to walk a fine line between making sure that you, fellow officers, et cetera were safe and protected by inmates who might be potentially violent.

	T:	Oh yeah. Well that’s what it’s all about pretty much.



	H:	But then there was also an awareness that police brutality was not okay.





	T:	Yes. And because of what my uncle went through. And I was working for the sheriff department, the same sheriff department that did that. So I had to be careful of what I said and how I said it. And my momma always told me she said “Don’t say anything. They don’t know, they don’t need to know unless they asked you.”

	H:	Who you are?



	T:	Um-hm ‘cause no one knew. I mean, even, well they know now, but even until I retired. No one knew.

	H:	Really?



	T:	No one knew.



	H:	And that was on purpose? You kept—



T:  I never said anything. I never had a reason to say anything. H:   Why do you think your mom told you not to tell them?

T:  ‘Cause she was scared for me. H:  Scared of what might happen? T:   Yeah, of what might happen?

H:   And I’m askin’ what do you think she thought could possibly happen?



	T:	The same thing that happened to my uncle. If I opened my mouth and said something or. . . She knows I can get very voicetreous on certain things and stuff so she’d always tell me “Don’t say anything, just do your job. They don’t need to know just be careful what you say.” And that’s what I did. I always went to work with that awareness.

	H:	And that awareness kept you safe?





	T:	Yeah. It did keep me safe. And being able to talk to people and communicate with the ones who were in there kept me safe.

	H:	When you say talk to people and communicate with the ones that are in there you’re talking about the inmates?

	T:	The inmates, yes.



	H:	And talk to ‘em and communicate with ‘em—



	T:	As a person, not as an inmate. They already know they’re and inmate so you talk to them just like you’d talk to anybody else. They have problems, we all got problems. It’s communicatin’ and talking to ‘em and treatin’ ‘em like a human being, which they are. And that keeps you safe. But you’re still aware of where you’re at too and you’re still aware that they are an inmate, but you treat ‘em like a human being. You don’t degrade ‘em or things like that ‘cause they already feel bad ‘cause they’re locked up, they’re away from their families and stuff, the kids they don’t need that. So it makes it better for you and better for them.

	H:	What are those twenty six years of working at the jail and we said it’s the Lake County Sheriff’s office?

	T:	Um-hm.



	H:	What did that show you about White and Black life in Groveland in that area?



	T:	You can get along. There’s no difference. We all go through the same thing, we all have problems. [telephone ringing]

	H:	That’s ok, I’ll pause it for one moment. [pause in recording] So you were saying that your time at the jail taught you that Blacks and Whites have similar issues.





	T:	Um-hm. We go through the same thing, we have to deal with the same thing, there’s no difference. It’s just our skin color.

	H:	Did you see any difference in why folks were being arrested in the community? T:	Um-hm, later.

	H:	What was the difference, what’d you see?



	T:	They were havin’ the same issues the Black ones have, even when being arrested. Drugs, alcohol, you know. Same thing.

	H:	Same issues. I’m gonna move forward a little bit then and ask about your family, the Irvins, and the Shepherds when you started to be more vocal about the Groveland case. What was that like? What made you make the decision to move forward, do something?

	T:	Gary Corsair.



	H:	Okay. And that’s the author of the first book, The Sad Saga of Legal Lynching. T:	Yeah, he contacted us and we got to know him and he started writing a book. H:	How did that feel to have someone asking questions about your family?

	T:	I thought it was time. I really did. I thought it was time that nobody thought that that was wrong or even said anything that it was wrong besides my family.

	H:	So he was the first one that you know of who said it was wrong? T:	Yes.

	H:	Now, before that- so you were born after it all happened, but definitely the NAACP before that and Thurgood Marshall and Harry T. Moore. So there was a generation back then saying it was wrong, but where this incident happened there was no kind of public memory that this was wrong.





	T:	No.



	H:	Within White Groveland was it ever talked about? T:	No, I never heard it ever being talked about.

	H:	I know that there’s a museum of Groveland—small little Groveland museum—I found it when I was doing some research online.

	T:	Really?



	H:	Yes.



	T:	Where’s it at?



	H:	I don’t know the location, it’s like Groveland Historical Archives or Historical Preservation, you’re not familiar with what I’m?–

	T:	No, ma’am.



	H:	And when I looked at it—



T:   I’ll have to check it out, maybe it’s in there somewhere.



H:  From the online site, there was no mention of the Groveland Four case at all, within this museum or historical society. And it seemed predominantly White, whoever was preserving this history.

T:   So it’s not history, well maybe that history maybe not all of Groveland’s history.



It’s the history that they want to put in there, that everybody can remember. They don’t want to remember this history.

H:  That’s what I was getting’ at, here’s the website. It’s 243 South Lake Avenue in Groveland, Florida. “Welcome to the Groveland Historical Museum.” And if you go online you can look at albums and et cetera, but there’s no mention of the





Groveland case. Which seems to be one of the most nationally renowned incidents that happened in Groveland ever. Seems important. [laughter]

	T:	I would think so. That’s why I say, you know people just want to forget that. Not talk about it, just forget it.

	H:	Do you think it would be helpful, for people to remember?



	T:	I think so. Maybe people could see that it was wrong and what happened ‘cause, you know, kinda like all you hear is what people say or don’t say and if there was something in the history of Groveland that they could actually go and look at and see it and it’s in writing and it actually happened. That they could say “wow, that was wrong.”

	H:	I mentioned to you before we started that one of the ways that could possibly happen is some kind of public marker like what happened in the Rosewood community, there’s a public marker there that says what happened with regard to the Rosewood massacre that the community argued for, but the city eventually put up and now it’s a Florida historical landmark. I’m gonna revisit that conversation. Do you think that that would be appropriate in Groveland?

	T:	That would be appropriate, but I don’t see it happening.



	H:	Yes, that’s what you said. Why don’t you see that happening?



	T:	Because you still have animosity from this trial that happened so long ago. H:	Who has animosity?

	T:	People in Groveland. They don’t want to remember that. They don’t want to bring that up because of what happened and how it happened.

	H:	Do you think that’s Whites and Blacks alike?





	T:	Both.



	H:	Really? Both communities?



	T:	Both. Because it was just a tragedy. Groveland was on fire, they were burnin’ everything. That included the Ku Klux Klan so that was off-limits to talk about.

	H:	When you say Groveland was on fire, tell me more about what you know about that and they were burning everything. What was burning?

	T:	My mom told me.



	H:	What did she pass down to you through her memories about that?



	T:	Ku Klux Klan came in and just started burning houses, except for my grandmother’s house.

	H:	And why not her house?



	T:	Because Mr. Eddy told them “You don’t touch that house. That’s my house.”



	H:	Now the FBI reports say that only two houses were shot up by the Ku Klux Klan. Now I don’t mean only, forgive me for that, but it indicates that two houses were shot up. But when I spoke with Mr. Eddy, he said, just like you said, “Groveland was on fire,” the entire community was effected, that violence was far more widespread. So that’s your understanding as well?

	T:	Yes.



	H:	Do you know of people or places that were damaged during that time? People who lived in homes, I don’t mean people who were beaten et cetera. I’m asking you, are there people I can talk with?

	T:	I don’t know she didn’t tell me that, but she did say that they were burning everything except for my grandmother’s house.





H:   The story that I heard was that a lot of people left.



T:  Um-hm, a lot of people left Groveland after that, or during that time. They were trying to get away from the fires and the Ku Klux Klan and the shooting so they just loaded up their car and took off or caught the bus out or walked out.

H:   Where did they go?



	T:	Away from Groveland. I don’t know they just left, they just getting’ away from that.

	H:	I remember when we were on the photo tour, I believe it was Mr. Eddy, it might’ve been one of the Shepherd nieces, talking about a house in Stuckey Loop that somebody went to go stay at in 1949 when all of this happened. Do you know anything about that house? In other words, when they were burning some of Groveland proper, or maybe one particular street, this family went to go kinda hide out in Stuckey Loop.

T:   That must’ve been the Shepherds.



	H:	When we were talking about those neighborhoods—the different Black neighborhoods in that time—do you know where was under mob violence?

	T:	Across the Branch, the Blue Flame. Right there, where my grandmother lives, that whole area. Yeah, that area.

	H:	Did it affect any churches?



	T:	Across the Branch they had the Baptist church there. H:	But no churches were vandalized that you know of? T:	No. Not that I know of. She never mentioned that.

	H:	But your family didn’t leave?





	T:	No.



	H:	And your family was safe? T:	Somewhat.

	H:	When you say somewhat. T:	Somewhat, yes.

	H:	Your mother and father, I’m asking, particularly. And your grandmother and grandfather. So Walter Irvin was definitely not safe, you know, he was in jail by this time. And I’ve heard stories that say that their parents, your grandparents, were also beaten. Did you hear that growing up?

	T:	I heard that.



	H:	Did you hear that as a kid or through the court? T:	Through the grapevine.

	H:	Have you ever asked your parents? T:	I don’t want to know that.

	H:	I understand.



	T:	No, I don’t want to know that.



	H:	Do you know how they protected themselves at that time? T:	They hid.

	H:	Where’d they hide? T:	Just hidin’.

	H:	Any other thoughts about that time and all that violence that happened before we move past it?





	T:	Just brings up those times, I don’t know if I could survive that. I really don’t know if I could survive that because that’s hard, even thinkin’ about it now.

	H:	How do you think they survived it Ms. Sophia?



	T:	Prayer. Prayer and God watching over them and hiding.



	H:	What would you want to see come about from my work, thinking about Groveland. The interest that’s happening now. What’s the best case scenario for the attention we’re focusing on Groveland now?

	T:	That they acknowledge that it happened. Even putting a plaque or some wall that states what happened and then renouncing that it was wrong. Public acknowledgement. For everyone to see, not just the ones in Groveland.

	H:	When you say not just the ones in Groveland, you’re alluding to that the city ordinance. I’m not sure that’s the right word, but there was a city ordinance and they gave a nice little plaque to you and your family.

	T:	Yeah they did that. I can’t even think of what it was now, but they gave us the— H:	Proclamation, that’s what it was.

	T:	Proclamation, yes.



	H:	But you are interested in something that might stand the test of time? T:	Yes. Something that people can go and see and read and look at.

	H:	In terms of local schools and what have you, you guys—



	T:	Most people don’t even know what happened ‘cause nobody talks about it, so it’s not in the history, but that could be something they could be teaching. That actually happened in Lake County that they can discuss, which is history.

	H:	So kids who are growing up today.





	T:	No idea. No clue that anything like that ever happened in Lake County.



	H:	I know that Mr. Eddy said that Gary Corsair came to a huge family reunion. Were you there, at that family reunion?

	T:	Yes.



	H:	At that time, did most people know what had happened in Groveland? T:	No.

	H:	No, so a lot of people were there, that’s how they found out. T:	Yes. Yep, that’s how they found out.

	H:	Have you had anyone say to you “y’all shouldn’t be talking about this”? T:	No.

	H:	No one directly has said that at all? T:	No.

	H:	Neither Black or White? T:	No.

	H:	Good. I can’t think of any other questions I had specifically, is there anything else you can think of you want to add? So I told you this was about your story, and we caught your story up to retirement basically. Are there any other parts of just your particular story, not even necessarily related to the case of the Groveland Four, that you would want added to this tape? ‘Cause remember your daughter can get a copy of it, this is your story. [laughter]

	T:	No, not really. Things have relaxed a little bit in Lake County, but it has not changed a great deal ‘cause you still have the racism, but it’s a different racism.

	H:	How is it different?





	T:	It’s not as prevalent as it was. It’s still there but they do it a different way, to try and keep you down.

	H:	We gotta probe that a little more, Ms. Sophia. So give me an example of what that would be like now? Just what makes you feel that way about the way things are now?

	T:	Because I can still see it even in my job I could see it. The way they talk to you, still, little things they say or do that you can see. They still try to degrade you, but in a different way like a nice-nasty way. It has not changed that much.

	H:	This community you live in now is integrated? T:	Yes.

	H:	And it is comfortable to live here?



	T:	Oh my god I love it. I love this area. My little community, I love it. H:	This is Tavares. Am I saying it right?

	T:	Tavares.



	H:	Tavares. But your neighbors and such they have no idea about the family history?

	T:	Unh-uh, no. Not unless they read it in the paper and my name was mentioned in there.

	H:	It’s not discussed though? T:	Yeah, it’s not discussed.

	H:	Well, I think that’s all I have for now. Thank you so much for talking with—





	T:	But I do want things to change because my grandkids are interracial, so it really really needs to change. I tell my grandson, “You still have to be careful, Tarius, ‘cause your skin is darker it’s not whiter.” And he goes, “I know, granny, I know.”

	H:	Does he know? The story, the family story?



T:  We’ve be telling him yeah. He’s fifteen so, I think he can handle it now ‘cause he’s in high school and he’s able to grasp things a lot better. Yeah, he knows, he’s been reading the book and things we tell him.

	H:	Do you feel like you’re worried for his safety in the same way your mom was worried for—

	T:	Yes. Because he is Black. His skin is darker, so he’s considered Black. Some places he go, things he say, he has to be careful still because there is racism. It’s still racism.

	H:	I’m gonna stop right there, thank you so much. T:	You’re welcome.





[End of interview]



	Transcribed by:	Cristina Rodriguez, February 21, 2017 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero November 29, 2018 Final edit by:	Sandra Romero, October 21, 2020