AAHP 019; Warren; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 019 Atkins Warren

African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston and Alicia Antone on March 10, 2010 1 hour, 26 minutes | 48 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Atkins Warren talks about his experience growing up in Missouri. He also discusses his time in the Coast Guard in the 1940s, and his employment with the Department of Justice in Kansas City. He describes his experience on a ship facing a Japanese attack during World War II. He also tells the story of how he came to Gainesville to serve as the city’s first African American Chief of Police.



Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Law Enforcement]



























































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 019

Interviewee: Atkins Wilbert Warren Interviewer: Marna Weston; Alicia Antone Date: March 10, 2010



	A:	Hm, ok. Thank you, and we can get a copy of this for you too.



	MW:	Oh, terrific. Thank you very much. Okay, so if everyone is comfortable, we can go ahead and began. This is Marna Weston, with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program at the University of Florida, with Alicia Antone of the UF Foundation and University of Florida Libraries in the home of Chief Atkins Wilbert Warren in southeast Gainesville, near Lincoln Middle School. Chief Warren, thank you so very much for having us in your home today.

	W:	My pleasure.



	MW:	Thank you. And the date is March 10, 2010. The purpose of this interview is to have a conversation with Chief Warren, who has the distinction of being the city of Gainesville's first African American Chief of Police, to talk to him today about family and about his early career. Chief, could you please state and spell your full name please.

	W:	My full name is Atkins Wilbert Warren. And my mother was Janelle Warren.



Cora was her maiden name. And that's where I started out from, Gainesville— not Gainesville, but Tennessee. Henning, Tennessee.

	MW:	Is that were you were born? W:	That's where I was born.

	MW:	And what is the date of your birth? W:	June the 30th, 1925.

	MW:	Okay. Now, you mentioned your mom. Was she also from Tennessee? W:	Yes, she was from Tennessee.





	MW:	And are you aware of where she was born?



W:  Yes, she was born in that, in Henning, Tennessee, or in that county, at that time. And that's how we were kind of split up that way. But in that county is where she was born.

MW: Okay, and how about your dad? W:  Same place. Preston Warren.

MW: Mmhm, do you recall either of their dates of birth, when they were born, your mom and dad?

W: Now that's a good question. MW: Oh.

	W:	Maybe if I’d sit down and review my mind on some of that you know, I would remember. But no, not off the top. But in those days, the families were always close. As you were born and you grew into the communities where you were. Come vacation time, they would leave and, where they would be and come back and, that sort of thing. Every summer, all of those of us who lived other places would come back. We would ride on the Greyhound buses in those days. Some on the train, but mainly Greyhound buses, because in these smaller cities, where minorities usually live, this kinda gave them an outing to everybody in the community they that knew. So it turned into a real glorious day for us back in those days.

	MW:	How much do you recall of your mother's mother and father? What were their names, and where were they from?





	W:	They were, they were all from that area. When you start pressing on the memory bank, but… It's kinda hard to remember exactly, particularly when you think about the years that have gone by since I started out in 1925. But you learn to live with that. But you maintain your acquaintance with your families, because they have to gather every summer. Sometimes on holidays as well, Thanksgiving and Christmas. But every summer, you usually found a week where all of the family would take off and be there together. And then of course, when you start going back again, trying to remember about my grandmother. She’s there. I see her picture and I speak to it a little bit, but I did not have the closeness that they may have had earlier, simply because of the distance involved, you know, and that—

	MW:	Do you recall her name? W:	Not even that right now.

	MW:	How about on your dad’s side?



	W:	Yeah, well, my father’s name was Preston. And, Preston… was, I was his only son. However, he and my mom separated early. And he moved to Saint Louis. My mother moved to Saint Louis, same, right about the same time. And he had the family. But the family, we were all close just for years. And when I think some of the things that happened during my early childhood, and being a grown man working in the same community where my father lived in Saint Louis, with the new family that he started up with, and how my relations with him and his other family came along, the different things, the fun that we had together with them.

So, you know, all of these things were good memories. And again, they were all





family being together, and I was always the big brother to his second family. And of course, I was a policeman at the time. And they was my little brothers and sisters, and so that was the closeness. So, it didn’t hurt us, but—it didn’t hurt, maybe it hurt them. But to me at the time, it was pleasant. The way it all came about and things that happened after that and for the years after this.

	MW:	Well, the reason that we ask these questions is from a scholar’s point of view.



Alicia and I imagine, and our Center imagine, that people who might be listening to this recording one hundred years from now, it would be fascinating to understand the ties of family members. So we’re asking these questions to try to understand and identify as many members of your family as we can, so other people might cross reference.

	W:	Yes.



	MW:	You mentioned that you were the, you’re the only son of your mother and father.



Did you have sisters?



	W:	No.



	MW:	Okay, so you’re the only child of your mother and father? W:	The only child.

	MW:	Now it, with his second family, the family that your father started in Saint Louis, who was his wife?

	W:	I don’t remember her, her name again. But I was always reminded of her by my present brothers and sisters. They were half, but they were, we were all so very close. And I had the duties when I was working as a foot officer, foot patrolman. I used to come along the streets during the school days, and they would be on the,





uh, going to lunch, or on the way to school in the morning, and they’d look up, and there I’d be out in front of their house. [Laughter] And, they all loved it, my being there. And to be able to, or, I’d brag with the other kids in the neighborhood that I was their brother and I was there to see them. And so it made it very pleasant for me. You know, even though the marriage was one that, his second marriage, and his second family, but, it never interfered with in a manner that had bothered me.

	MW:	Just more brothers and sisters.



	W:	Just more brothers and more sisters. MW:	To play with and take care of. [Laughter] W:	That’s right. That’s right.

	MW:	Now about some of their names, those brothers and sisters?



	W:	They had family names. Like in his other family that he had, the oldest one was named Preston.

	MW:	Okay.



	W:	You see, Preston was my father’s name, too, see? So they, they conjoined in, they kept that going and then the next one was, they were brothers, and sisters with family names of previous family members.

	MW:	Mmhm.



	W:	I did not know their names, and, well, I knew their names then. But, there was a closeness again where they used to, used to brag on their brother, would come by here and make you be good boys and girls, you know, this kinda thing. And the only person that resisted that kind of conversation was his present wife. And





after a time she—I guess I made it pass the road blockage, if there was one, by putting out the matter of all of them being a part of my programming. In other words, when they see me coming, they’ll open the door, “Come on in.” They’ll save some lunch for me or something. This thing, so that that closeness was there. My other members of the family, of my family, and that was my mother and so forth, they lived in the area. And then there was a tightness that they had, even. You know so that was a closeness that I haven’t seen since then. Now that maybe the—you know, but in those days that was then, and that was a good feeling for me, and I didn’t want to lose that relationship. And so I went out of my way to make sure that that was a comfort zone that I could help develop to be a part of that. And so that worked out good me, up to the whole time that until my mother passed away, and, the kids that right now they’re in Saint Louis. We’re going to be getting together. Before or around the holidays, I think Thanksgiving, Christmas, and so I’ll be there. We’ll have Carrie, she’ll be there with me, to maintain this. And then I got three children myself, two daughters and a son. All of them live in California. And I’m looking forward to that.

	MW:	So what are their names, your children?



	W:	My children. Well my oldest son. I’ve got a son and two daughters. The son is John Warren. And John is about—gee, this makes this kind of scary. John is about sixty-two now.

	MW:	Do you recall his birth date? W:	What’s that?

	MW:	His date of birth?





	W:	His date of birth is November the 18th. And the, now—I’ll be guessing on the year right now.

	MW:	That’s quite alright. W:	November the 18th.

	MW:	Okay. That’s good, you’ve got the day and the month. Your wife will be happy. [Laughter]

	MW:	Okay, so that’s John. How about your other two children?



	W:	The other two children. My oldest girl, her birthday is in April. And she’s Antoinette, that’s her name. Antoinette’s… what is Antoinette now? Antoinette’s about fifty-five, fifty-six. Somewhere right around in there. As they’re younger you keep up with their age better than when they get older, so you try to figure them in. And then my youngest daughter, her birthday is in December, December the 22nd.

	MW:	Christmas baby.



W: Yeah, Christmas baby. MW: And what’s her name? W:  And that’s Carlotta.

	MW:	Okay. Now how about grands, and great-grands. You don’t have to mention them all by name, but just generally how many are there? How many grand-children, how many great-grandchildren?

	W:	Okay. My grandchildren, I’ve got about three…three, three grandchildren. And my great, and the great-grandchildren I’ve got is, I got seven, seven or eight, somewhere around there, right now. I’ve got a couple of great-great-grand-





children. And the closeness is still there. However, the being available to squeeze and pat, you know, you don’t have that. And when you get around the kids after you haven’t seen them for a while, you wanna do something. I think you almost want to, just before you get to where you’re going, you’re going to go buy something that you can give them, you see? And, so that’s very interesting that we do that. But, that’s all part of it.

MW: These kids today, they love cash. That’s what they love—a pre-paid Visa card. [Laughter] Could you talk about your earliest education? Do you remember the first school that you went to?

W:  Yes. Yes I do. Because that was shortly after my mother, after they migrated from—

MW: Tennessee to Saint Louis? W: Tennessee to Saint Louis. MW: Okay.

	W:	And in Saint Louis I went to kindergarten, and a few of the other things. And my mother even helped out at a school. And they brought them in with the—they didn’t have to have their bachelor’s degree. They may have, but it was downplayed. And so when they went there, they were usually just a staff assistant, or helped in the kitchen, or whatever the thing that they did. But it wasn’t really prominent to us, but just to know there was a school that part of St. Louis, definitely. And then we moved to Kirkwood, Missouri.

	MW:	Do you remember the name of the school you attended in Saint Louis? W:	Yes, in Saint Louis. Banneker was the school.





	MW:	Banneker like Benjamin Banneker? W:	Yeah.

	MW:	Okay.



W:  Yeah. So that was something that every now and then, I used to think about it. But, still on occasion, I still drive to the neighborhood sometimes, and look at it and smile.

MW:  The school is still there?



W:   Yeah, the school is still there.



	MW:	Oh, that’s marvelous. Is it still an elementary school? Or has it been changed? W:	It’s an elementary. Yeah, it’s an elementary. I think about the schools there in

Saint Louis, because one of the basketball players on the basketball team in the Saint Louis high school. And also—pardon me—a member of the University of Florida’s basketball team is the basketball player. And I haven’t had a chance to meet him before he leaves school and go to the professional.

	MW:	What is his name?



	W:	I can’t think of his name right now MW:	One of the current players?

	W:	Yeah, one of the current players.



	MW:	Okay, we’ll see who’s from Saint Louis on the roster.



	W:	Yeah, my plans were to grab him and introduce myself to him. You know that kind of acquaintance from home, let him know, I’m going to let him know that Saint Louis was my area, my home base for the—you know, just speak to him [inaudible 15:33]. You see this is my second time in Saint Louis. My first time was





when the—not in Saint Louis but in Gainesville. I was the police chief here for four years, in 1980 to 1984. And then I left here and we went to Gainesville, Florida as the police chief here. Well anyway, that kind of meshes together. But anyway, I’m doing that to make sure that I have a picture I can share with some of the people in Saint Louis, that here’s one of your players, you know, that came down here in Gainesville and that I got a chance to meet him and so forth. And you know how that culture, whether you know them well or not, just from the same place and they kind of happen to be famous too, famous [inaudible 16:23] or whatever it is that makes him different, that you kind of put your arms around him and just smile and then go ahead. And so normally what I would do, and the people you are with, put a cloak over you to a certain degree where you want to act or stay within that range. Under normal conditions for me, I wouldn’t have to have anybody around me to make myself known to him. You know, I just go there, and here I am.

	MW:	Well, because you were the chief of police. W:	That’s right.

	MW:	You can walk down wherever you—I know what you mean, the UAA is a little bit different, you know? You’ve got passes, and—

	MW:	Well, they still do, but you see there—I don’t know, maybe this would be a bad word—but there’s certain privilege that one has.

	W:	Of course



	MW:	And it comes to you. You don’t even think about it. Because you’re usually welcome. You’ll usually welcome if you’re just a minority policeman. If you’re a





policeman period, you know. But all these things together kinda create the idea of wanting to uh, let everybody know you’re here. And see I think about the days when I was police chief here in Gainesville—wasn’t no Black police chief. I mean I was the first one, and I did a number of things. They were always looking for the people that were different, to make a point forward or against, whatever it was.

And usually if you have anything on ball, you wanted to make sure that performance, whatever that time period was, was the tops. And you make sure the people didn’t think you were scared or anything. So you know you’re one step different. What you’re doing you—the matter of putting your performance in a position where others could review, smile and laugh, and do different things, and then you’re one of those actors in it, sure. Couldn’t hurt anything. And I’m up to this day when you look and watch television we see these things happening everyday on television, don’t we?

	MW:	Mmhm. W:	Ok.

	MW:	Well we definitely want to ask you about your career in Gainesville. If I could move us back just a little bit more to talk about the background of your education. Do you recall having a favorite teacher in school, and if so, who was that person and how did they inspire you?

	W:	Yeah, yeah. Well at Banneker there were several number of teachers. One was my grade school teacher. Black lady, last name was Brown, very sharp.

Teachers were light-skinned teachers, good hair, excellent English. She was just an example, that she’d ask you to do something, you want to make sure it was





perfect. I still go back and remember those days and how you’d be questioned by others in the class, about how you like, you know, and what you’re doing and so forth. And then I would share with the others what she does when she comes by and looks at my work and says this, what about yours? You know, you exchange that, and so you find out that she was a perfectionist, where one really went out of their way to have that level of her being the one pointing to you, speaking and congratulating you. So in that she was good. And the other teachers, I never forget another teacher in grade school claimed that basketball was harder than our university. I didn’t know anything about our university then, but that was where he was from, and so I still remember those things.

	MW:	And what was his name?



	W:	What was his name? I think it was Louis. I think it was Louis. Tall, sharp guy, basketball player. And so those little things come to you, you still remember. I remembered his name to think about it, but now later probably in the night it’ll come to me that that wasn’t his name. [Laughter]

	MW:	My mom and my grandma and my dad told me that when they were in school, there was a lot of emphasis on memorization and recitation of your poetry or statements, things like that in class.

	W:	Yeah, yeah, yeah.



	MW:	Can you remember anything, maybe a poem or something that you had to remember in school that you had to stand up and recite?

	W:	I had, not, not really recall. It seems to me that I was just buried in so many things and I know the visual. I was Boy Scout too. And the same teacher that I





was telling you about, the first teacher named Brown, she was an English teacher at the school. My Boy Scout class would participate in the major Boy Scout meeting room, function that they were holding. And so they had Black high school students and White high school students. These Boy Scouts would kinda mixed them up. But that was my first, really first mixture, I think in a performance level with others where the races were different, because if you were Black you stayed in the Black lane. But now if you happened to be a boy scout and we didn’t have that many scouts and so forth, they were all there and then you can remember the thing that you went through with them. And so I’ve always remember that and it was most embarrassing time that happened. I got up there to give my speech and couldn’t remember a word, of course [Laughter]. And I was standing there I was trying to remember. And everybody was looking at me.

	A:	I could put this behind your back.



	W:	It was kinda scary, but still those are things that that you know being in uh, the— we knew the inferiority they wanted to place on Blacks. And at that level—was I about eleven, twelve, something like that.

	MW:	So 5th or 6th grade?



	W:	Yeah, and they had me giving a speech, and the words just wouldn’t come out of my mouth. My scout master, he did. [Laughter] And I’ll never forget that, and I had to do it. That was the end of it. I mean end of that particular day, as far as the presentations were concerned. But see that’s an oddity that that, just had never occurred to me, not recently, that I was always conscious of. And the matter of learning to speak then, for audience purposes, portrayed itself almost





without not even thinking about it. I learned to read in school like crazy. I mean, just how the words just stuck with you. Behind some of the teachers when they did things for you, and I had some things that happened where all of a sudden in the church, and even in high school, they always used me to kinda give the professional talk, you know. Kid, Atkins, and so forth. So I did that. So but, still, the teachers themselves even then, as some of them do now, they kinda pressed to get the best out of you, and how you drove with the humps on the roads. But [inaudible 24:10] going to school and then going to church, turn in very important time and now didn’t stick with a lot of us. Cause we had so many things happening through where minorities, where Black kids were concerned. And of course your parents—my mother used to preach to me every day, that she wouldn’t tolerate my going out and being a fool, and tell me what a fool meant, you know. You kinda learn to live with it, that kind of atmosphere, because for minority kids, they were the—tough things happened to you, if not by the police in those days, by the community people. So the thing was that we all tried to stay prepared. And those kids and families that were loose, they had so many problems. That was a way of my mother telling me that this is what’s happening, don’t do this, don’t do that. When she got ready to spank my butt, you know. That she didn’t back away from that, and I run. [Laughter]. She tried to catch me. I climbed a tree. [Laughter].

	MW:	You had to come back eventually.



	A:	[Laughter] Yes, exactly, oh that’s great.



	MW:	It was waiting for you when you got down. [Laughter]





	W:	You see my mother would stand down, and she’s start laughing. And she said, “okay.” She said, “you got to come down. I’ll see you later.” [Laughter].

	A:	Are you comfortable? Do you want me to— W:	I’m fine.

	A:	Are you sure?



	W:	Yeah.



	A:	Alright.



	MW:	Now what was the name of your middle school and the name of your high school?

	W:	The middle school was Milton Turner. MW:	Ok.

	W:	Milton Turner. And I went to two high schools. I went to three high schools. I went to, uh, Douglas, well I went to Sumner High School. That was a grade school there for the school system. And what they did, they didn’t have Black high schools for Black kids. So you had to live in Kirkwood, Missouri, and then after going to high school, you catch a bus in Saint Louis County and going to school each morning. And that’s how we worked that out in the graduation classes where we still lived in Kirk. Graduation classes where one where you would graduate and then later go up to college or wherever you went, another location. But they paid your—all your expenses were paid by the city that you stayed at.

But you had to go to the Black schools, in order to pay school. So having that and then the—for high school I went to Douglas high school. That was Webster Groves, Missouri. And that was a Black school. Now that was, they had a grade





school in there and high school, all together. So that’s where we handled that that way. And then I went into the military. I went into the military on my eighteenth birthday, eighteen years old.

	MW:	Now what was the name of the high school that you actually graduated from? W:	Douglass High School.

	MW:	Ok, so you went into the military. What year was that?



	W:	Uh, that was in 1942. No, no, no—that was 1948. I’m sorry. MW:	1948.

	W:	1948 was when I first started the high school, and then came out of there and went into the military right after my eighteenth birthday. I had to go in and, see those days when you get to 18, that meant you had to register. And when you register, they tell you that you have to go to high school. You’ve got to go to high school, and then of course, you’ve got to go in the military too. So make sure you know to notify everyone where you are, and that sort of thing. So we all came out knowing that. This was something the entire school would do. I was a vocalist. I used to sing in high school. So on graduation day, I had a role with singing with the baritone. And I was singing soloist and also had a member of the high school choir. So that was where that came through and then also the end of that time Duke Ellington came in town, and Count Basie came in town. And what they would, do they would go to the high schools who had the singers and get information from the high school principal and other few people as to who they were and so forth. And then you had auditions.

	MW:	Yep, seeing if anybody was there. That’s a good idea





	W:	They would give auditions and then—see all this was something that I was doing, but never placing anything of major importance to it. So I had an opportunity to sing, being interviewed, ready to go, and then they came, and see in those days I played a little football too. And I had a good chance of getting a scholarship from two different schools. Wilberforce. And another school. Wilberforce and another one. I can’t think of a name right now. And then they came in. I had with Duke Ellington; they gave in. [Laughter]. And that was fun now, but I didn’t get anything. But the point was they have an opportunity to do that. They had a piano player and somebody there. And I had to also participate in a Saint Louis theater, where they had amateur night on every Friday or first of every month or something. They had put it out. So I won a local radio station. I won. I had a cigarette holder.

	MW:	Do you know remember what radio station it was?



	W:	Uh, I think it’s county theater, county theater. It was in downtown Saint Louis. So it was kind of—I haven’t talked about that and I don’t know what’s all of it was, but the anyway the—after that in high school, then I went to Detroit, Michigan.

That’s where part of my family had migrated from Tennessee up to Detroit. And so as part of that process, and after winning the big ashtray, and then going up to Saint Louis and then going to Detroit. And I was going to the military in Detroit.

	MW:	So where did you do your training? What— W:	Training in Kirsway, Maryland.

	MW:	Kirsway, Maryland, ok. W:	Kirsway, Maryland.





	MW:	And what was your job? W:	I was a steward.

	MW:	Ok.



	W:	You see, in those days in the military in the—I was a member of the Coast Guard. What they have the process of where you—they had assignments for you. Blacks listed and go, have a regular spots in the military. But you see, these were some of the things you were used to already, and you know if you had any common sense wise, that yeah, it would be good if we go back and do something else. However this is what they going in, and if your parents were on the charter, they would be working to do what they could. That kind of a mixture that was going on that you learned to live through and live with if you come along at that age. And what, fifteen year or sixteen-year-old boy or girl, how do they treat these kind of things? Well, you better treat it right, if you don’t, you’ll be pushed into a corner someplace and you’ll be paying for it the rest of your life. Because if you didn’t, you’d certainly be reported to the police and all of those other things. But anyway, for our claim, I went and signed with them on this other thing, but then I went into the military when I went in the around the same time the World War II was heavy on the thing and I was up to the South and Southwest Pacific.

	MW:	Ok, now when did you first go to the Pacific?



	W:	That was the—right after the military and I went into the military for my boot camp services. Uh, that was in 1982, [19]82.

	MW:	[19]42?



	W:	No, [19]82. I’m sorry, yep [19]42, [19]42.





	MW:	Mmhm.



	W:	In the military and went to back up that boot chain in Maryland, and then went to San Francisco. Stayed in San Francisco for about for about a month, a month and a half, something like that. And then went aboard ship to San Francisco—not San Francisco—aboard ship to Hawaii. Hawaii, Hawaii.

	MW:	Now what ship were you assigned to? W:	Uh, U.S.S. Sterope. S-T-E-R-O-P-E.

	MW:	And what kind of a ship was that? W:	That was a troop transport.

	MW:	Ok, so you were—the base, I guess they had you working in the galley with meals and things like that.

	W:	Right, right.



MW: Did you work for any officers, like did you cut the captain’s hair, or anything like that?

W:  No, one too funny thing happened there. I haven’t seen an assignment to work the cafeteria. I’ve officers’ cafeterias. And stayed there until—in the mean time we were traveling around the ocean. Abroad the ship U.S.S. Sterope. S-T-E-R- O-P-E.

	MW:	From San Francisco to Hawaii, kinda back and forth? W:	Well they, no. It didn’t come all the way back.

	MW:	Okay.



	W:	We got on, we got on in Hawaii. And then went to a particular island, where troops transport went over there with them, and this particular islands we—well





going back, it was a memory bank. I can’t think of the name of it right now. It’ll come to me in a moment.

	MW:	Was it in the Solomons? I’m thinking [19]42, probably the Solomons



	W:	It wasn’t the Solomons then, but we did get to the Solomons, but it was the uh, uh. Anyway, stayed on board this particular ship for about a year and a half, about a year and a half. And another person from Saint Louis was a member of a sister ship. We lost his life over there, you know. I kinda remember that. And it was one of the things where you—he was from Saint Louis too. It’s all about the guy, and we lost his life after that. Really what brought the reality into what we were all looking at, vividly.

	MW:	Do you recall his name?



	W:	I forgot, I was trying to remember it. I can’t think of his name. But it will pop up on me, on occasion. But he—we would bump into one another when the ships happened to be in the same port. He was with the steward board; he was a steward too, for his ship. You see, that was the thing, they just were reluctant to reach out to you, to the Blacks. It happened. But, I made a change, made a change on this thing unconsciously and got an assignment on the ship and the— again, think about how some of you, some Whites now would reach out and do things. This particular time with this guy, he told me that he says, “you are assign to me.” What that means is that, you know, he’s the captain. And everybody else knows that [inaudible 38:29]—you know how the word gets out. He said as long as you take care and you make sure that I’m satisfied and handle things, and work all good. Any other assignments you want on this ship, you can have, and





this sort of thing. So it worked out good for me and then I made friends with a number of the White officers. It was a thing of acceptance, more than anything else. I stayed with him until almost before I came back here. I had an assignment with a gunnery officer on the ship. My regular assignment though was with the captain.

	MW:	Chief, we’ve gone for about fifty minutes. I want to know is it all right? W:	Really?

	MW:	Yes, it goes by quick, doesn’t it? I want to know if we might take a ten minute break.

	W:	Oh sure.



	MW:	Terrific, we’ll take a pause and we’ll take ten.



	MW:	Yeah, I was going to ask I was going to ask after we moved away from your time in the military about how your family life started, you were married and all that.

	W:	Well she was my high school sweetheart. MW:	Oh really. Now what was her name?

	W:	Olivette.



	MW:	And this is your first wife? W:	First wife.

	MW:	And where was she born?



	W:	She was born in Saint Louis. St. Louis. We lived in St. Louis County where I was going to high school, but still the Saint Louis area. She was born in mainly a Black hospital there in St. Louis. See in those days, if you were Black, you





carried that around and it was a harness. You found others that didn’t have any problems and some did.

	MW:	What was the name of that hospital she was born at? W:	People’s Hospital.

	MW:	So you were high school sweethearts. Do you remember how you met? W:	Yeah I do, the same way, graduated with her.

	MW:	So you were paying less attention to the lesson and more paying attention to the girl.

	W:	That’s right MW:	[Laughter].

	W:	That’s true. [Laughter]



	MW:	Of course we all had, we all had big days, you know holiday days. The good times have been, I think are very important to all of us. Has a lot to do with our future. You know but, what do they trying to do later, your kids, like my daughters and my son, they were having ‘em for the mom and dads out there. I was fortunate enough as I talk to, to go through when I was in the military, to meet these people, whom without them I may not have been able to be successful as I’ve been. Because they give you an opportunity to compete at a level that that requires a little work, a little imagination. And we were talking about some of the people there. I remember we were talking. The good thing that came from the military, this captain of the ship. He put his arms around me, and gave me directions, and then you get the respect that I got from the White sailors.





	MW:	So that mentoring and direction from that White officer assisted you in developing your leadership skills?

	W:	That’s right.



	MW:	How do you define leadership?



	W:	I got enough information, I think should share with a little bit with my lady here, or our lady here. And it has to do with, I was just planning to do war with the president, and I’m done. I just backed away. And I backed away because it has nothing with, with more heaviness to the trying to meet or get other people involved and things with his guidance. Not resisting his guidance or anything he says, but knowing that once you joined that line, you were kind of a weight on the party, W-E-I-G-H-T. And you don’t want to hurt the person. And all of a sudden if he’s gonna have to monitor for me and keep me busy to keep him happy, that’s an additional thing on what he’s doing right now. He’s got it to himself, to make the decisions on how he wants to go. And without that pressure, that I would clue in. That’s what I felt. And so I stopped, I backed away, just backed away from the continuance of trying to get to him. But it wasn’t necessary. And you know, I got to go—I’ll show you the photo you’ll believe, might have today or next time you’re here. It’s the information to show you that he sent me.

	A:	Oh okay.



	W:	And just to say hello. Let’s do this and that, you know. It’s fine, I was getting ready to get all into it, and then I said, I saw all the other people piling in. I said, he don’t no pressure from me. I said, I’ll try to fish, and come up with what I think





he wants, and lay it out. And so that’s what I did. I came up on occasion and I had a couple of memorandums that kinda speak to that.

	A:	Oh, that’d be great, if we can see that after.



	W:	I’m thinking about going to—haven’t told Carrie about it yet—but going to Philadelphia. Is it next month? Not too far away, and having a chance to maybe see him. But I’ll get a chance to see some of the other people and be with him in at a meeting in Philadelphia. So, I said I was going up there and if I don’t get a chance to see the president, I’ll see the vice president, and then tell them to make sure you tell the president that you and I met and talked. You know that’s the kind of communications I’ve had. Nothing visible, but something that—when you’re carrying a weight—again, W-E-I-G-H-T—and I know you need clearance to do whatever it is you need to do, and the way is to keep you up, not to keep you down. Because, as I said, you feel obligated, when you get pretty close, that you gotta do something for [inaudible 45:34].

	MW:	Well now you gave me some good examples of good concepts but I was just wondering if you’ll just put into words where you summarize. I understand how you’re saying that’s leadership to not put weight on a person, to be a help, to give advice behind the scenes. But what is your personal definition, then, of leadership?

	W:	Self-satisfaction. I can be self-satisfied with you, and you’re part of my operation, that’s it. That means that I don’t have to tell you anything. And that’s a lot of weight you know, and certainly the key person, even though you don’t have to tell me anything. But to keep—I don’t have to tell you anything, but what you hope is





that the respect that’s there, when there’s something he’s got to know about, he’s got to know it. But you know, you’re not putting pressure on him to make a decision. Because you know this person is gonna make the same decision you gonna make, or make it even better. And I’m here to support you. I mean he knows that. I mean so right now for instance, either of you have been involved in something, and you were within my reign. I’ve said reign, I mean an area, not pinning you down. [Laughter] But I’ve still got enough pressure in my mouth when I open, where I give you respect, just because of him. I mean, so that shows what you’re able to do, and it shows you also the principles involved in the structure of having you as number one or number two, speaks for itself. Like I was in a meeting with a chief here around yesterday—

	MW:	Tony Jones?



	W:	Tony Jones. Yeah, Tony Jones. I said Tony, “you feel there’s any self-satisfaction here?” He smiled. Hey. You—self-satisfaction doesn’t have to say a word. And the person knows if he’s a key. He knows that whatever he does, you support, you work within that area. In fact he was at the school or the newspaper. The editor or whoever’s responsible for the print, knows that when the paper that you present, ready to go, he know he don’t even have to read it. He knows it’s gonna cover the four corners that you have on that sheet of paper. Why does he know? Because you’ve done it for him before, and he knows that if he’s done it right, that you gonna remember that as you move forward, as you move along. So those key things.





MW: Yep, when Tony is that kind of leader. I mean he was the interim chief, and they did a search. They said, “We want you to be the chief.” So they basically drafted him to be the chief.

W:   Yeah, yeah. So anyway, that’s important, self-satisfaction. That’s my keyword.



I’m always asked to share a few words to White officers and Black officers about self-satisfaction. As long as you got self-satisfaction, you’re on my team.

	MW:	Terrific. Well we’re almost ready to talk about your career, but I want to just ask you just maybe one or two more questions about your family life.

	W:	Okay.



	MW:	Olivette, your late wife, has passed away. What year was that?



	W:	That was 19—I was working out of Kansas City. I was the regional director for the Department of Justice. And what I did that—my wife did not wanna move. I did not wanna come back and be pinned in. When I had the world in my hands, that’s the word to use. But as a chance to do what I felt needed to be done, and because I was assigned to the office in Kansas City, if night time be done, you would think I was working right here in Gainesville, But when you pull through in town I might be here, maybe or not. But I mean, it just wasn’t no barriers. And I had this thing going with all the people. I mean it was just a—see, once you’ve been given an opportunity to present your work, and you know what’s you’re responsible for, the key people could be a thousand miles away. And they know they pick up their phone and say a few words and you tell them something you’ve been doing. Ok, just like you were there with them. When you have that kind of help, you’re satisfied. I don’t mean that means you can do anything you want. But





I mean it showed that the confidence is where you need it to be. And it couldn’t be better if you worked at some other place. And because see the competition comes from the other people in the location that would be critical or could be critical when they didn’t have to be. See that’s the kind of respect you’re looking for. And I’ve said that in a braggadocious thought, just a comfort zone. The director, who had handled his operation, if he’s comfortable, then I ask him if he tied up last night, at the meeting. I says, “How do you feel”? The guy looked at me, he says—he’s captain you know. He says, “every time I look at you I smile.” So that’s the kind of response you like. But you see what you do, you have to prompt, you keep prompting, you never back away. You know that satisfactory, but General Tony knows that you’re doing things certain way. And that’s all you need to know. But you have to assure him time to time that you’re still seated to the things that you did.

	MW:	How did you meet your current wife? Carrie. How did you all meet?



	W:	Ah, Carrie. I was visiting the—I seen Carry before. But I was visiting the doctor’s office here. It’s home, I’m sorry, it’s home here. And, I met, I talked to her, when I first came to Kansas City as their Chief of Police. And it was a good meet. And so every time I would come back in to Saint Louis—come back to Gainesville--I’ll always be in my business suit and come by to see—

	A:	Who was that, Dr. Banks? W:	Who?

	A:	Was it Dr. Banks? W:	No.





A:   Who was it?



W:   It was—



A:  It was Dr. Banks? W:  It was Dr. Banks. A:  Okay.

W:  And I would always bringing my business to—knock on the door and say hello, and go home, every time I come back.

A:   Wonderful.



	W:	And one of my meetings with him they had a—this is after my wife has passed. I came here to Gainesville, and was invited to come down to a little reception, and she was all in that area at the Court House. So you know, usually I did the [inaudible 53:33]. They were also the first couple I met when I came here. So I went by their house and I met her. And you know, I was joking, “where’d you meet this beautiful lady you know?”. And, I says okay, she don’t mind me speaking to her. She’s not married, is she?

	A:	Sure.



	W:	You gotta check. [Laughter] You gotta check. You don’t want no problems [Laughter]. And our relationship kinda grew from that. But that was the warmness that she shared. And brought her presence at their home, was where I really got to talk to her, and then later she came up to Detroit, not Detroit, Washington D.C. That happened, visit, and she came to Kansas City, and the word came out that I wanted to know what she thought of marriage. And I also recognized that I didn’t have fifty years that I could wait on the side. [Laughter]





	MW:	You needed a quick answer. [Laughter] “I’m not trying to rush you on this, but uh, yeah.”

	W:	So anyway, that was--Gainesville just happened to be the place where I anchored. But now I was ready to stay in Kansas City. Cause I had kind of openings for a pretty good spot.

	A:	Now let me ask you a question. Is this her house? Is this Carrie’s house? And you moved into here, or you all brought this house together?

	W:	We’ve really brought the house together, but, the matter came in with—she had brought it, she had moved out, but I actually came in and took over the things and so forth. And there’s no more if you’re married, and you got a husband and a wife, and the husband has a job, you know, you step up to the plate.

	MW:	What’s mine is yours, what’s yours is mine. W:	Yeah, yeah.

	MW:	I understand.



	W:	So I was able to do that, and then I felt comfortable. Of course, Carrie’s no, what do you call it, no yes-person. But that’s all right, with due respect I just talked about a moment ago. My key thing, it could be a marriage, or whatever the terminology is, as long as you have that, that’s enough. Certainly one has to have other responsibilities as well, so he has to maintain the other responsibilities. If they’re there, they’re there.

	MW:	Well it’s a good joint decision though. This a beautiful home and a wonderful location. Well, I guess we’ve finally come to the point where we can talk about Gainesville. And I guess I’m curious.





	W:	You see the—a couple of things I mentioned, not in your presence, but in a friend’s presence, the matter of my relations with other people and aboard the ship. When I was there in the Southwest Pacific, the Japanese raided. They came and attacked the U.S. ships, parked in the ocean, and how the personnel deployed on the ship, or fighting purposes, where I was standing with the Japanese and fighter planes coming in, and laid an attack on the gunnery spot, guns. And I was on the—what was that 3 inch, I think it was 3 inch—I’m on the 3 inches, where they had on the ship, blockaded on the different spots and then they come in to porch, while they protect the porch bombers.. And they were bombing the ships in the harbor when I was coming out of the hatch with breakfast, with sandwiches and so forth. And as I was approaching and walking across the deck, the Japanese planes were coming in, shooting, and the people aboard the ships were firing back. On this particular day—I had no regular bases—but this particular day, I was coming across the board in front, from the galley, with a sandwich and some milk. And as I was coming across, the plane was coming in, and you could see the fire coming from the wings, and it was being hit by the American guns. And it each time it was hit it kinda jarred, it’s main frame slopes down a little bit. Cause he was hitting right through the deck where I was standing.

	MW:	So it was a kamikaze attack? W:	Yeah.

	MW:	He was planning on running his plane into the ship?





	W:	That’s right. In fact they have the—what you call ‘em—the lines drawn up, for unloading and unloading through the elevation and so forth that they had for that purpose. And they’ve come across, the plane is coming in to hit, and they start on high, because as they come in high, they’re being hit by the planes that are trying to keep them away. So you see them dropping. We hit and they drop and drop and drop, rather than exploding.

	A:	Right.



	W:	And so I was on the deck walking across the deck with a sandwich and something to drink.

	MW:	What kind of sandwich was it?



	W:	Oh, bacon and eggs, you know. [Laughter] A:	[Laughter]

	MW:	Everybody, always remembers what kind of sandwich. I was about to eat the bacon and egg sandwich. [Laughter]

	W:	And all you see the fire coming out and it freezes you. If I keep walking I’m going to step into it or whatever. But anyway, during the course of this thing, the plane got hit and came on down and hit another ship before it got right back down to ours.

	A:	Wow.



W:  But it was headed for us. And then they were hitting them, that was the end of it. And then when it came over, I hit it from my position. I was the second loader on the gun, ‘cause each of you carry you have a fire arms power [inaudible 1:00:13].





	MW:	Was this like a fifty caliber machine gun, or was it a shells you know, like one of those—

	W:	It was a shell. They had the big ones.



	MW:	Ok. So did you have to put the powder and the shell and everything in, and then close it?

	W:	Right, right. Right MW:	Okay.

	W:	And then so, anyway, having that, I was flattered about the incident itself. ‘Cause it was a good thing to be a part of and see something happen. Because you need to know what—even though I said they were not being proper at all, period, through the leadership. But then that comes from people who are behind. Like their admirals. This is what you’re going to do. So a captain does what the admiral tells him to do. But you didn’t see the other adjunct that I was mentioning, how this captain made me, his top person. And I was a second-class waiter.

	A:	How old where you then Atkins, do you remember?



	W:	About twenty. Nineteen, twenty. Just young. And I’m glad I took those steps because when I was ready to get out of the service, I was mostly welcome back. And that was in Webster Grove, Missouri. Right out by the school where I was. But anyway, I know I told you about them but I didn’t think that you told him.

	A:	It’s ok, yeah, no. That’s good.



	W:	But it’s good with the different things, and we had assignments that were accommodating, and we had fights that every time they went out on leave. It was





about six of us, these five White guys and myself going out. And we’d go into this town and have a beer and some—what kind of drink you could be. But anyway, we had this, and so we had chance to stay close like that. Then as we got close to the shore the first time, the military was able to do certain things and then we just stayed close. And then getting into Kansas City, before I found out the war was ending, you know, and all these kinda things. And so this was, basically, that was it. I had a chance to come with the military support that one receives from being in the military. And it worked out well for me.

	MW:	What were you doing when you found out the war was ending?



	W:	Uh, not much of anything other than just following the lead. No special requests.



Had a little son then, my son John, had him, and we worked together. Always had that level of friendship we develop from school. Usually the group that we’ve been with and good parents. They put their arms around me. Most of us were at an age where were all the first of our kind, but then he looked like people next door. He looked like three boys, three of our sons living with their…

	A:	Grown-up sons? W:	Yeah.

	A:	Oh, okay.



	W:	Grown-up sons.



	MW:	Do you stay in touch, or did you stay in touch with people that you knew from the service after you got out? Did you write letters? Or uh—

	W:	Tried to, tried to, tried to. But see, the contrary, if you want to use that term, it’s what you do away from the job that keeps you involved in what you feel is





cultural development or whatever it might be. You see, you maintain that relationship. I know some of the people that I’ve met in the military, I never saw them again. And not that they were bad or anything, they just weren’t available.

	MW:	Different direction. W:	Yeah.

	MW:	So you left the military. You had leadership experience, you had life experience, you had education, you had your family experience. How did you decide to get involved in law enforcement? How did that come about?

	W:	Well again, I was—it came about just through my knowing, or saying, I need a job.

	MW:	[Laughter]



	A:	That’s honest, yeah [Laughter]. MW:	Sounds familiar [Laughter].

	W:	I need a job. I needed the street car in Saint-Louis. I had a job at the post office. But it was a temporary job. I found out that they had openings in the post office, but it wasn’t permanent. And so I got a job, but anyway—I’ve got the job, and so that was working out well. And I was reading the newspaper, and it says that the post office is hiring such and such number of people. And so, I’m looking for something permanent to do. And being clean, that’s a pretty good job for a Black guy.

	A:	Sure.



	MW:	So, I went and I said okay, I’ve got an application, got the job, went into the line, told a good lie, they get it.





	MW:	You always tell that first lie. To get that first job is always a little not quite so true. [Laughter]. Then you build a resume from that. There was story on NPR about that yesterday…

	A:	Is that right? [Laughter]



	W:	Made all this up and then just a few steps it took to get me into that office door where they were doing the hiring.

	A:	Wow.



	W:	And when I walked in, knocked on the door, the man said, moved back, he said “Can I help you?” I said, “yes sir.” I said, “you told me to come back and see about a job when I spoke to you last week.”

	MW:	But you’ve been telling the truth ever since. So it’s okay. [Laughter]



	W:	But you see, the point was, listen, he mentioned that I wasn’t fooling this guy when I told him he told me last week. And after it was over, he told me, he said, “If you wanted to lie to me, that’s not a lie I would tell.”

	MW:	[Laughter] A:	Okay.

	W:	And so I got the job, just that way again. And stayed there with him for about a year-and-a-half on a regular basis. And that’s when I got the—and also put my application in for the police department. And I got the job there and then and, we had a chance to go through that process, and I guess, the most vivid thing when I think about my beginning as a young policeman, along with the other thing, but one where as a brand new policeman, I’m riding in the backseat of a police car that’s driven by a White policeman. And for me to arrive at that scene, I think it





was on the Lake Watch, I got this call on the red blinking light you see on the street, red police call. And the thing was for me to stand by the police car. The sergeant needed a man over at a certain location, and he was going to pick me up. And when the car pulled up to pick me up, they opened the front seat for me, the driver opened the door. And the, you know how the seats open, and seats back, what do they call them, two seaters?

	A:	Yes.



	W:	Okay. The officer pushed the front seat down. That meant, get in and sit in the back. He didn’t say a word. He told me I wasn’t going to sit beside him. And so then he drove down and he then got out, he dropped me off and then left me. But the thing that it showed me, regardless of my military experience, or whatever, it was still the same. Now, how should I greet that? Now the White officers, I mean the White sailors that I was working with, they treated me like a brother, you know, put their arms around me. I’m coming where these people, they accepted me but they showed me what they think of me. And so that was it, that’s the way I started out. And what happened since then was one memory I always think of this. Well not always, but I think about when I need to fresh things and then I’ll think about it. The matter of self-reservation, if you’re sharp, is always looking, is telling you not to, or you don’t know what self-reservation is. And so I was fortunate enough to stop any militant action or thoughts because of that.

Recognizing, well they’re stupid, I’m not. Not that vividly, but I mean, that’s where—whoever it was that trained us or brought us up, showed us when to get out of the fire, man. And they did that, and so I’ve been able to walk a tight rope





ever since. As far as vividly understanding what and what not to do. And to follow that, and when I was pressed, and I really pressed on that, I was always saved, you know. And so that’s a key thing, because it covers a lot of barriers when you place it like that. What not to do and what’s best to do.

	MW:	Judgment.



	W:	Judgment, judgment. And so this worked for me. And I never looked at it as anything other than survival. And I’ve seen some people that you hoped that they would learn after time, and some have and some haven’t.

	MW:	What made you decide that applying for the Gainesville job was a good job for you at that time?

	W:	Ok, well, I was in this line-up row of selection. First, I recognized the fact that the chief of police in Saint Louis did not wanna leave, and so that means it was indefinite whether he was gonna leave or not. And so I said well, the thing to do is take this and move to something else. And anyway, I decided I wanted to be a chief. I had an offer for several places that—oh, I had four different places here in Florida that were ready to hire me. But you know they had to go through a process, and when the offer comes, you take one or the other. And so the offer came to me when I was visiting the—what city was it? About four to five cities.

	MW:	The Ocala Star Banner article in August 1980 indicated that you had just applied—or you were a finalist in West Palm Beach.

	W:	Yes. MW:	So was—

	W:	Yeah, that was offered to me.





	MW:	Okay.



	W:	That was offered to me. I was young again and naïve, and as far as grew up in a rigid strong urban area. But I felt that the—if I wanted to be a chief, here’s my chance. And whatever else I needed to do after that, I’d do it. And the person says ok. He says, “you’re gonna be my chief.” I said well, I said, “but I got a person with me we need to contact about a job first.” And I said, “the city manager in Gainesville, Florida wants me to be police chief there.” And he says, “well, can you get him to think about it a little bit?” I said ok. So I picked up the phone and called Gainesville to find out if the city manager was available. And I told him that—they said, “no, he’s not.” I said. “well this is Atkins Warren. I’m calling you from the city. Could you have him call me back right away, the city manager?” “Yes sir.” Phone called, I hung up, the phone call came back. And it was the city manager. He said, “what’s this about you coming to this other city? You know I wanted you to come to Gainesville.” I said, “well, I really didn’t know.” I said, “I had this thing come up. They wanted to hire me right away.” And so he said, “well, no I want you to come and stay here.” So anyway I said, “no I can’t, can’t do that. I have to check and say no to the others.” And so then he changed. And it was the right thing to do.

	MW:	Do you feel that that decision to come to Gainesville shaped the rest of your life in some way?

	W:	Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, it did. And then of course the matter of it not being the clean, sharp looking area that was I looking for. And I said, “well no, I’m not gonna let that bother me.”





	MW:	I saw in one of the mementos that you have in your study that Gainesville was looked at as a small town but had big crime. But I also note that Nat Tillman, who wrote the departing article for you in the Gainesville Sun in September [19]84, commended you on the concentration that you used in the east side of Gainesville. That you were really concerned about Duval area, and Porters area, and that you spent a lot time making sure that the police communicated with the people in those areas. You think that that helped to change some of that reputation that Gainesville was a small town with a big crime problem?

	W:	Yeah, yeah. But you see, my wife came [inaudible 1:15:38-1:15:46] looking for the sharp, looking for the improvements to make things better, and to be able to identify quickly what the needs are. And those are almost natural things for you to do if you’re geared to what you’re looking to do, what you’d like to do. And you don’t bite your tongue, and then when they ask—they have key questions that they ask, you know what I’m talking about. And when they do, you give them an answer. You give them that thing of the well prepared person, and deal with the issues. Cause I’m the city manager, let me run the city, you run the police corp. See that’s what they were looking at. And we have to be proud of them and their thoughts and we do that, when something like that happen. That’s the way it came about.

	MW:	This is probably a good place for a break, wouldn’t you think Alicia? A:	Yes, I do.

	MW:	Chief I can’t tell you how much we have both appreciated this opportunity to have a conversation with you and it’s in my tradition, not Alicia’s, this is our first joint





effort, but to close the interview by allowing you to make any comments that you’d like to make. So, whether it’s a point that we didn’t address, or something that you want to close the interview with, or thoughts on the interview, and when you conclude those comments, that’ll conclude the interview.

	W:	Well, first of all, I think that what we’ve done, improving what certain actions, steps, are available to find what you’re looking for, and also to help you in resolving the critical issues of today. And if you follow those, and don’t be thrown about, or out range, because of something that looks strange and peculiar to you. If you’re keyed in to what steps to take in running an organization, or an operation, or you’re developing a crew of men and women to work together, you’ve got to keep in mind, it’s got to be unity. They’ve got to think like others.

Now if you think personally, in the course of your activities, if you think you have your hands on target in what to do and what not to do, take a shot at it, that’s what you’ve been training for. Now if you’re not, don’t even go in there unsure of yourself, whether you’re right or wrong. You’ve got to know exactly what you got to face into. And so that’s was the main—those are my thoughts, those are my feelings, I recognize the risk involved, and family. Hope one day to reach a level that would be secure. I’ve never failed to this point, so that gave me the confidence I needed for me to say that. But that’s the way I felt and that’s the way I feel today. And it showed me and told me something, then, and I proved since then that there are other avenues available. That all those twenty years of being a duty person in other cities in the country itself has proven that to me. You could say that there might be a question about things, and certainly I’m still





questioned about things. But that gives you the confidence you need. If you’re just a single guy out there, you’re braving the weather for the people that trust you and give you a shot. They’re at risk, so there it is, so both of you are at risk. But he’s looking, he’s hiring you, he’s in better shape than you are. [Laughter]. Because, you know, he knows he thinks he’s backed you [inaudible 1:19:57]. You see, that’s the thing, to level it off that way, and it’s out there for all of us. It’s out there for you guys too. They look for talent, they look for talent, and the people that have been successful, they visualize what you can do, what we can do, and the expectations are there. Now you’ve got to, you’ve got brood it up.

They’re giving you the brake, now it’s time for you to take a risk, that’s not a risk. If you’re questioned why, you say, “yeah, this is why I did”. And then, it’s never failed to me. But you got to know the steps to take and when to take them. If you take them out of the ordinary time, you’ve done something wrong. Better correct it quick. And as you’re talking, you’ve been involved in things, as you’re talking, you say, “I’ve turned the wrong way,” and you just gently smooth it, turn it, and you get back right were you wanted to be. And see, the person that’s interviewing you, it’s increased his help. His appreciation would, because you recognized that this was wrong, because you were looking for the right way. I said, oh those things are just. You got the boss up there at the university. I got him cornered up there in his office one day, and two of my [inaudible 1:21:28] felt about things and I gave it to him. Didn’t see no body running behind me or coming to support me or anything. I gave it to him like it was—he could make his own decision. And I practically told him in the same words, this decision might be





different from mine. I said, “but when you think about it,” I said, “you’d be scared to death.” Give up on him, you know I’ve told the man you know right away, at a certain level, who you report to, appreciate your being straight and diplomatic with them. Yeah, you’re my boss, but this is what I would do, under these circumstances, and this is why I would do. I’m a winner. I’m a little nut. I did, I told them I don’t lose. Cause if I don’t win when I get this shot, I come back the next day. I’m not gonna give you a reason to say no so badly that I won’t come back. [Laughter]. You know, you follow what I’m saying. So you’re tested back when you put your foot on hot water. You did it. Do the same thing. Don’t be stupid.

What are you proving? But those are my thoughts and it’s always been that way. And believe me, I worked for some good people, some good people. And I’m quick to tongue person, I’m quick to tongue. But look now, you may not agree with me, but this is it. This is what I do. You should see them, they’ll be asking themselves the question as you looking at them, and they want to get out running because it’s too hot for ‘em. And if they can’t hire you, they don’t want to be embarrassed. You know, but anyway, that’s it, and it’s appreciated, and we each know people that have been in our corners. And we’ll continue to be, but you know it’s up to us. And I backed away and I got another thing that I’m worried about too, and that, up listed props, going around, only, also think, oh good for you, you’ll find out more. But what I’m doing, I know the rationale for it, reasoning. And I still lack, if I can make my memory hold on for [Laughter] give me another twenty-four hours, or a twenty hour a week, whatever term you want to use. But then you know, if there another person that you can relate to in your





operation, that you could put under your arm. You tell him, yeah, come on. I want you to be with me, but now I want you to do it because of this. Now when you get better you’re ready to take my spot, we’ll work on it together. ‘Cause I’ll fix it up for you, if know that’s what you want. But right now, this is what we have to do.

We. ‘Cause you never want either party to think differently than that. ‘Cause if you’re not, then they’re suspecting into that person that you got as replacement. But that’s all you develop when you get into that leadership role, and you got the ammo. But it’s really nice to hear. ‘Cause you know the, person who aren’t authentic in what they’re trying to do, they can’t teach you. And they just can’t beat you. And it’s too bad though, but whatever, just he can’t beat you. This thing, again look [inaudible 1:25:31-125:32]. Thanks to that you have more with the Saint Louis PD. I had people in the Saint Louis department that got angry with me because I left. I had good things that happened since then. They all haven’t been peaceful and calm, but that’s what you find.

	A:	Wonderful.



	W:	Thank you. [End of recording]





	Audit edited by:	Anupa Kotipoyina, March 30, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 16, 2019