AAHP 629; Booth; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 629 John Booth

Interviewed by Marna Weston on January 13, 2009 27 minutes | 22 pages



Abstract: In this interview, John Booth discusses his experience working with the Airmark Food Corporation with the University of Florida. Mr. Booth also recounts his time attending Lincoln High School during the era of segregation and how different attending school was during his time. Mr. Booth then goes into detail about how different the city of Gainesville was during the era of segregation.





Keywords: [Gainesville, Florida, Black Community, Family History, segregation, Airmark, Integration ]



AAHP 629

Interviewee: John Booth Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: January 13, 2009



	W:	Alright, this is Marna Weston on Tuesday, January 13th 2009. Interviewing for the Sam Proctor Oral History Project at the University of Florida. I’m at the Gator Dining facility and this interview is with Mr. John Booth, who has been lead cook here at the University of Florida for some time and also been on the campus for some. And we’re just gonna be here to talk. Thank you Mr. Booth for allowing us to do the interview.

	B:	No problem.



	W:	Would you please spell your complete name please?



	B:	My name is John H. Booth. J-O-H-N, H. — which is Henry— B-O-O-T-H. W:	And what’s your date of birth?

	B:	March 28, [19]46.



	W:	My birthday’s March 21. How long have you been employed with the University of Florida?

	B:	Since 1978.



	W:	What was your first job here?



	B:	First job was taking care of athletes at Yon Hall. I worked for two previous food service companies from [19]78 to [19]82. Then I went to work for the university athletic association from [19]82 up to [19]96. And at that time when Airmark Corporation came in and the private dining room was phased out we been in this building since 1996.

	W:	I’ve actually eaten in this building before my Kiwanis club. We used to do the seven o’ clock breakfast.





	B:	Right.



	W:	So it was either this room or the room under the sign, we ate at seven o’ clock.



	B:	Okay, well we had nice food diners. The facility here was built 1996. And with the direction of the Airmark Corporation, which in charge of all food service on campus, we got forty or better food services on this campus, and everyone is related to the Airmark Corporation. Which they branch out to the students’ needs, because if time goes on the student needs changes. So, they are the one with the most updated company that I have been working for since I’ve been here. So it’s not a bad place to work, the Airmark Corporation.

[ Break in recording]



	B:	We get to see a lot of people come and go. And all the students, every four years we have new batch of student that comes in, but we enjoy all of them so no problem.

	W:	So you work with all the students to help those needs but you mentioned something about —

	B:	I’m mainly in the food service. W:	Okay.

	B:	So I just do the food service and during the athlete’s season, during the fall season we run summer camps. So we involved with students and athletes in at some point in time but mainly mostly athletes.

	W:	Where were you born Mr. Booth?



	B:	I was born in Gainesville, Florida in 1946.



	W:	Would you tell us about your parents please?





B:  My parents were born in south Florida and who had me in their early ages. They were raised around the Lake Cross area which is near Alachua. And my mother deceased, my daddy deceased but I have eight brothers and four sisters. So we was raised all in this area generally.

W:   Could you tell me your brothers and sisters names please?



	B:	One’s brothers name James, Walter, Vilter, Isaiah, Willy, Davis, Jerimiah, and James Arthur. And I had four sisters: Ines, Martha, Pearl, and Felicia.

	W:	And what was your dad’s full name? B:	John Henry Booth Jr.

	W:	And your mother?



	B:	Sadie Booth Dickinson.



	W:	Okay, what was her maiden name? B:	Sadie Dickinson.

	W:	Sadie Dickinson, and were they also from Gainesville —? B:	Gainesville uh-huh.

	W:	And whole life here? B:	Whole life here.

	W:	Do you remember your grandparents?



	B:	My grandparents were raised but they was passed at the time I was becoming of age. So I don’t really remember.

	W:	Do you recall their names?



	B:	Yeah, my grandmother’s name was Daisy Pearl Dickenson. Now, grandfather I’m not familiar with.





	W:	Is that your mother — B:	Mother.

	W:	— or on your moms side--- B:	On my mom’s side.

	W:	Or your dad’s side? B:	On my mom’s side.

	W:	How about on the other side?



	B:	Other side I don’t remember those. My daddy passed at the early age also.



When I was like twelve years old. So his parents are from Birmingham, Alabama in that area somewhere I’m not familiar with those.

	W:	So you’ve lived primarily in the south? B:	South, mmhm.

	W:	What is your earliest memory of school? Where did you go to elementary school? B:	I went to school at Williams Elementary school. Finished school at Lincoln High

School in 1963.



	W:	Okay. I just met the assistant principal at Lincoln the other day. Mr. Lawson Brown Jr.

	B:	Right.



	W:	Very proud of the history at Lincoln — B:	Lincoln High, oh yeah.

	W:	That might be a great source of fond memories for you now.



	B:	Right because at the time we were going, it was not integrated. It was a segregated school. So, we was in there two primarily: Gainesville High, and





Lincoln High for the Black kids. And the Gainesville was for the White kids. But now things have changed. I’ve seen a lot of things change. It’s better, for the better.

	W:	The Lincoln High was where A. Quinn Jones is now correct?



	B:	The original Lincoln high, but the new Lincoln High is over there where the Lincoln Middle School is now. But majority in people Gainesville went to the old Lincoln High School where A. Quinn Jones building is now. So yeah.

	W:	Do you think that it was better going to school? And I ask not just for total judgment, but you know now a lot of teachers don’t even know the kids. They don’t write their names, they’re just been problems but I’ve talked to my dad and he talks how well everybody graduated, everybody was prepared with a trade, the teacher they knew your name you know? Anybody could correct and offer some discipline and some love to the kids in the school but it’s not the same now. Do you see kinda that same thing or?

	B:	It’s better in a way. It’s better for the kid because they can kinda interact with other kids and learn from it. At that time we come up we didn’t the opportunity the kids have now. So I think it’s much better now than we were here.

	W:	When you say you didn’t have any opportunity, what do you mean by that?



	B:	Resources wasn’t there for the kids, they ain’t like it is now. So have made it more available for the kids nowadays than the world then.

	W:	You mean the books?



	W:	Books, and the parents, a little more money than they did then, and the books are more freely distributed money kids than they were then. At the time we were





in the school we got the used books that the old other schools hand down. Now things are different, so you pretty much better than they were before.

	B:	Did you have a favorite teacher in school?



	W:	Oh yeah. Mrs. Nealy, Mrs. Jackson. They were nice teachers. They could have took up time with you, which was nice.

	B:	I was meeting with someone from Lincoln a couple weeks ago, and they told me that one of their teachers has breakfast at Shoney’s every Sunday morning.

	W:	Okay.



	B:	Might it be Mr. Jackson if he’s still living? W:	Mmhm. Lenard Jackson.

	B:	Okay. And what subject did he teach? W:	He was like an English teacher.

	B:	And that was it?



	W:	Well some of the teachers had a dual role. So they taught two different subjects.



But it was good, you learned a lot. Because like I said, then the teachers had more time with you because the classes was smaller. But with the amount of kids they got going to school today it’s kinda hard.

	B:	What was your favorite subject? W:	Oh, math, English.

	B:	Wow, why math?



	W:	Because I like numbers. I like figuring out numbers, I like counting and writing and it was nice. It was a good learning

	B:	Is that something that served you throughout your career —





	W:	Oh yeah it helped out a lot because the kind of work I’m doing now you got to have numbers. You got to be able to read the menus, and the recipes that you be getting. So it helps out a lot. Oh yeah.

	B:	So did you go to Lincoln from one to twelve? W:	No, at the time we went from seven to twelve. B:	Okay from seven to twelve —

	W:	At Duval Elementary, from one to six. And then Lincoln was seven to twelve. But now we didn’t have the middle schools it was: school one through six, six through twelve.

	B:	Elementary school, secondary school.



	W:	Secondary yeah. There was no such things as a middle school at time.



	B:	What kind of activities and clubs were you involved in at school? What you’d like to do?

	W:	Mainly basketball. B:	Okay.

	W:	Mainly basketball, it was my main subject. I loved basketball. B:	What position did you play?

	W:	Point-guard.



	B:	You’re a point guard? So you —



	W:	I wasn’t good but I loved it. I was on a team, I showed up, I was there. B:	Did you like to shoot or did you liked to pass?

	B:	I liked shooting. [Laughter]





	W:	All point guards like to shoot.



	B:	Yeah, that was back then. There were some good times. W:	Did you have a strong team?

	B:	Yea, very good team. Though I did — W:	Who was the coach?

	B:	It’s been so long I don’t remember. Oh, Mr. T.B McFerrison. W:	T.B McFerrison?

	B:	Yah, yep.



	W:	Wow, that’s the real name in the community.



	B:	Yeah because we got a recreational center that named after him. Up on southeast Gainesville and he was a great teacher. And he didn’t do strict, but he made sure you got the work done. It worked out.

	W:	What was his theory of being a coach? What do you remember about him that made him a good coach?

	B:	He wanted to make sure that you clean, you was on time, and you participated in all the activities that was there for you. He was a strong leader he wanted to make sure that you did what you supposed to do. He worked out great.

	W:	Did y’all have study hall?



	B:	Oh yes, study hall was first period sometimes. Yes, we had mainly all the subjects — all the things they have now just on different scales. Most scales back… that version of it. But we had pretty much all the same things they had now.

	W:	Who was your strongest rival in sports?





	B:	Was no Eastside so it had to GH. Let’s see, Lincoln was mostly the school in the area. I’m not familiar, I’m not sure.

	W:	Did y’all play vanguard? B:	Vangaurd…?

	W:	It’s an Ocala school.



	B:	Ocala school? Possibly, I’m not quite sure about that. But I know we played a lot of the — well see at that time the Black schools were playing the Black schools, so you could pretty much figure out who you was playing. But there was no Gainesville High against Lincoln High at that time.

	W:	Because it was segregated. B:	Segregated, mmhm.

	W:	Would y’all have beaten them if you played them?



	B:	Most likely, probably. We would’ve tried our best anyway.



	W:	Well back to the University of Florida, what would you say has been the biggest change that’s occurred since you’ve been here?

	B:	I’ve seen more Black kids on campus than I seen when I first came here which is great thing for the school. I’ve seen a lot of changes when I came the O dome wasn’t there. We had bleachers in the south end zone. And I seen the whole atmosphere on campus had changed since. It’s a more better place. And it’s a more friendly place and it’s more open to all the students now. So it’s not bad.

	W:	Was Gainesville really big on segregation, you know downtown you couldn’t go to theaters and do stuff like that or— ?





	B:	Oh, pretty much like any other town. In the early days. They had a theater downtown and they had a theater on Fifth Avenue so we always had some place to go. It wasn’t like we didn’t have any place to go at all, but we had a place go that was a tool for yourself so, it wasn’t so bad. We survived.

	W:	Once there were more Black students on campus and in the community did they do most of their socializing in the Fifth Avenue area as well?

	B:	No, they started to mingle with all the other kids. So it wasn’t just one area, when they started getting more integrated, they all started blending together. They all going to clubs together. It wasn’t just like it was in the old days, no.

	W:	Did you have a lot of communication with the first Black students that came to campus? Did they —

	B:	No, I was mainly concentrating on food service, I didn’t get into no politics or nothing like that.

	W:	I mean just talking to them like “Hey, how you doing?”



	B:	Yes, because I was speaking to athletes. If I see a student on the street I will speak to him, and it didn’t matter who they were, whatever. But I didn’t get involved because I was mainly inside concentrating on food service. Because when you’re in Yon Hall you’re in the back of the stadium it really like a isolated area so you’re behind the stadium, behind the Hall so it’s behind the stage so you didn’t get changes to see the people there in the street all the time. But it was okay.

	W:	Did you know the first Black athletes that were here? B:	Oh yeah I know some of them.





	W:	Mr. Jackson?



	B:	I met Tyrone — oh, early days? W:	Mmhm.

	B:	We had a guy from Jacksonville… let’s see give me a minute. W:	Don Gaffney?

	B:	Gaffney, Lenny Gaffney and Tyrone Young came along and then we started— athletes— started getting more and more as the years go on by.

	W:	What were the crowds like for like a football game weekend? Was it something that you had experience with?

	B:	Oh yeah we had to work at football weekend anyway because we was doing food service for the athletes and their parents them on campus. So we ready to involved, we always worked football service anyway. That was just part of the work.

	W:	Walk us through a football Saturday. What would you get up? What would you do, how long would you be on campus? What kind of things happ —

	B:		We on campus from like six until the beginning of the game. Six in the morning ‘till whatever, if it’s a early game you come in a little early. If it’s a late game you come a little later. But you in there two or three hours prior to the game and a hour after the game start. So a typical day is six to seven hours on game days which is, you know, we just involved in getting food prepared for the people that you know coming in the dining room. So you there you have things ready for when the doors open.

	W:	The players, their parents the coaches —





	B:	No, the players and parents on game day we don’t see them. They live in the motel the night before so we don’t see them after Thursday, we don’t see them anymore. Till Monday, or Sunday.

	W:	But the players would come in?



	B:	No, the players don’t. They eat in motel. W:	Well then who are you preparing food for? B:	For the public.

	W:	Oh okay, for like people to buy at the stadium or something like that? B:	Mm-hmm.

	W:	So, you would cook for, well I guess was 45,000? 50,000? People when you first started?

	B:	No, no, no, no, no. We only cooked for the press people. W:	Oh, the special public.

	B:	Yes, not special just press. It for the press. And the public eats, probably want to eat that, but we didn’t take care of that. We just preparing food for the press box.

	W:	The President’s box and that kind of stuff?



	B:	Nope, Press box. We had nothing to do with the President box. That’s a separate part. It was the people that write to newspapers and we just do that, but we had nothing to do with the president. I did have another set another compliment that the outside they do that; we don’t do that thing there.

	W:	How long did you did you have that job? B:	Eighteen years. Yep.

	W:	And when you finished that, what did you go into?





	B:	I came back, and that was when we converted back to what we doing now, so I never left the job. That just was a surrogate thing, but it I’ve always been in athletes. Monday through Thursday that’s my job to feed the athletes. And then you get your day off, and then Saturday you do football days. And that’s it

	W:	Did you get to develop good relationships with the players and the coaches?



B:  Oh yeah, you always. Because you gonna see these guys everyday and you’re gonna see their coaches at some point in time. So, you try to get to know all the athletes and all the students. As many as you can anyway.

	W:	Have the athletes changed over time? Are they different now than they were when you first got here? And if so, how are they different?

	B:	They ain’t too much different. Young people pretty much the same no matter when. When they come in they all the same. Kida gonna be kids so you expect that out of them Some of them are more mature than others but you expect that out of kids anyway.

	W:	Who’s your favorite football coach since you’ve been here?



B:  Favorite football coach I been — how can I say that? [Laughter]I like them all. No way I won’t, you can’t do that.

	W:	No?



	B:	No. It’s not a thing to do.



	W:	Okay well, which favorite game since you been here? If you could pick one Florida football game that was really enjoyable for you. Like mine I don’t —

	B:	The game last Thursday. W:	The game last Thursday?





	B:	Mmhm. Championship game. Any championship game. W:	Okay.

	B:	When you get to that point that you know you done did the best you can to get to the high point.

	W:	So you take a lot of personal and institutional pride in the achievements of the team and the players?

	B:	Oh yeah, definitely. We want them to do good, not just football but all of athletes. So we want all of them to do good because they all work hard and all put in a lot of time. So we don’t pick just one team, we cater to all of our athletes because they all hard workers. They work hard. So we just don’t separate one. We never do that. So we treat them all the same.

	W:	Those basketball players that came through for the past couple of years, what were your impressions of them? I hear that they hung out here all the time together. If you saw one, you usually saw two or three of them together.

	B:	Which was good, it was a good thing. That way you know where they at, you know they’re not getting into trouble, so which was a good thing. It wasn’t bad. You want them to communicate with each other and get along well. Then they produce well. So it worked out all right.

	W:	How about Emmitt Smith?



	B:	Emmitt Smith was great. Enjoyed him the whole time he was here. Glad he did go with the Cowboys and glad he’s still doing good.

	W:	Kerwin Bell?



	B:	Same. Yup.





	W:	Neal Anderson.



	B:	Neal Anderson, yup. Sam Matthews, Chris Carlinworth, we all seen them go our ways. They all come through us first, so we see them first. We used to be involved in the recruiting process when they first get here. So we see the guys from the time they get here, hopefully— used to be a time you see them the whole four years. But time has changed, you might see them three. And if you lucky you see them four. So you always see those guys from day one until the time they leave.

	W:	Because they like to eat, so they – B:	Oh yeah, they love to eat.

	W:	What kind of things have you served them? What’s the kind of meal that the athletes would come in a recruiting trip? They’re here at Gator Dining, what do you throw at them?

	B:	We throws the basic foods: steak, chicken, fish, stuff like that. W:	It’s All you can eat?

	B:	All you can eat, oh yeah. W:	Yeah. They like that part. B:	Oh yeah, they like that part. [laughter]

	B:	Some of them they can eat. But they have nutrition, dietician on staff, she’d tell us what to fix them, what they should have, whatever. [inaudible 19:04]

	W:	Did they ever get to eat after hours? Somebody’s saying “I’m hungry” and they come in to get something in the middle of the night, or –





	B:	No. We closed at a certain time. So it would have to be in between the time they supposed to get here. They got a three-hour period to eat from 4:30 to 8:00.

Anytime between that period they could eat. But we don’t have no special time for them.

	W:	Which player over the years ate the most? If you could think of one who could really put it away.

	B:	Oh, let’s see. We have players like Lomas Brown. W:	Lomas, okay.

	B:	Even, believe it or not, Dock Luckie. W:	Really?

	B:	Yup. He used to be one of them big eaters. W:	Oh, Dock’s still around.

	B:	Dock’s still around.



	W:	With the police department.



	B:	He used to be out with them big eaters.



	W:	He does a lot of programs with kids and community stuff.



B:  He’s a great guy. Pretty much all of our big guys eat a lot anyway. And our swimming team guys, lot of them—We want them to eat and be happy and enjoying what they doing. So we don’t have no problem with that.

W:   Do you have children?



B:   Yes, I have one son and four grandsons.



	W:	What’s your son’s name and grandsons’ names?





	B:	My son’s name is Jarrell Booth. My grandsons’ is Jarrell—I mean John, Bobby, Cambrell, and Rob.

	W:	Okay, and what about their mom? B:	Their mom’s in South Carolina.

	W:	Okay. Did Jarrell go here to the University of Florida? B:	No, no. He went to a local school in the city.

	W:	Is he a Gator fan?



	B:	Oh yeah, definitely. Ain’t no doubt about that there.



	W:	How about the grandkids? You clothe them in orange and blue?



	B:	Yeah, well, they pretty much did it on their own. Even my three-year-old great grandson is a big Gator fan. So they pretty much growed into it because they was always involved. On Saturday they come to the game, look at the game, every game on TV over there. So they always involved. So no problem with that.

	W:	There’ve been a lot of moments over the course of your history and for the country, for the campus. What’s probably something that sticks out in your mind that was really significant that affected the campus since you’ve been here?

	B:	Let’s see... It’s the way that the kids get along on campus and the learning facilities they have for the kids now. And variety of places that the kids have on campus too, and they interact with each other than they didn’t have before. Used to be a time when the kid had to eat on campus, they had to go off campus to eat but the company that I work for could provide all these services pretty much on campus for the kids. The Moe’s, the Chili’s –





	W:	I went to Chili’s for the first time yesterday. And we didn’t have that when I was here. There was a Burger King.

	B:	Yeah, Burger King. Now they got these places on campus so the kids can kinda go there and eat and [inaudible 22:05] a variety of places, and we have Gator Corner and Fresh Food and they have two All-you-can-eat places.

	W:	Starbucks.



	B:	Starbucks. They got plenty of places, so yeah, the place is convenient for the kids. The service is convenient for the kids on campus, which is great now. Better than it had been in the past.

	W:	I had the buffalo chicken salad the other day. It was pretty good. B:	Yeah, it’s not bad.

	W:	A little expensive, though. It was $8.29. We need to talk to Aramark about that.



They need to cut back a little bit. It was good, it was big, it was a little much.



	B:	It’s good.



	W:	I’d like to ask you about some specific events, though, that happened with the campus. Just maybe a reflection, or how you felt, or anything you want to add. I was going to mention a couple of things. I guess the first one would be the student murders, when they happened.

	B:	I’d rather not get into that. ‘Cause I don’t speak of things I don’t know about or understand about, so I’d just rather not get into that.

	W:	Okay. How about the 1991 win over Florida State, the fourteen to nine game here on campus?

	B:	Any win over Florida State in any given year is great. So that’s fine.





	W:	Why is that?



	B:	Because we like beating Florida State anyway. It’s a good rivalry and it’s good anytime you can beat them. They’ve beaten us before, but we’ve beaten them more times than they have us. So we fine. We did a little beating on them anyway because they don’t like Florida, we don’t like them. So it works out good. Gives us something to think about every year, at the end of the year. Gives us something to work toward.

	W:	Who do you look at as the Gators’ biggest rival? B:	Florida State and Georgia.

	W:	Okay. And they’re equal? B:	Equal. Pretty much.

	W:	Why Georgia?



	B:	Georgia fans always pretty much like Florida State fans. They don’t like Florida fans. Anytime you can beat someone who don’t like you is great.

	W:	Did you go to the game that was here, when it rained at one time?



	B:	No, I outsmarted that and I stayed home when it rained. I go to the good games when it’s sunny. I don’t mind watching the games, I don’t like watching them in the rain.

	W:	Do you go to Jacksonville and see that game at either the landing or at the stadium?

	B:	I didn’t go this year but I went several times.



	W:	What did you think about the atmosphere of that game over in Jacksonville?





	B:	It’s not bad. You just got to watch what you’re doing and watch where you’re going. Actually there’s no worse in the city, just got to be in the right place at the right time. Just watch what you’re doing, that’s all.

	W:	So Florida State, Georgia. What about Auburn? We don’t play them every year anymore, but there used to be a big rivalry.

	B:	Yeah. It’s okay.



	W:	In fact, when you said your favorite game was last Thursday, I was thinking my favorite game was when Kerwin leaped into the end zone and scored that touchdown and then we got the two-point conversion and came back. We were down in the fourth quarter and came back and beat Auburn here, when Kerwin was quarterback.

	B:	Pretty much. But any time we do Auburn, Tennessee, Georgia, or Florida State, all of those bitter rivalries, they’re all teams you wanna beat. Anytime you can beat one of those it’s fine. We do not overlook them or nothing, but Auburn not as big as the Tennessee game and Georgia and Florida State games. To me. That’s just my opinion.

	W:	I agree. For me, it’s Georgia. Florida State is kind of like, it’s good to beat them but Georgia is the one that matters. It’s a bad year when we lose to Georgia.

	B:	Anyway, my time is about up. I gotta get up out of here.



	W:	Well, I tell you what. It’s always good to end an interview allowing the person I’ve spoken to— first I want to thank you, so much, for this opportunity and Mark’s sitting with us here as well. If you have any kind of reflection that you would like to offer, I would like to end the interview on your words. I’m going to just say





thank you for allowing it, and then when you get done saying it whatever it might be – your reflection on your time here at the University of Florida, on the future – I mean, we didn’t talk about Barack Obama. Anything that you’d like to offer, that’ll close the interview.

	B:	I just like to thank for you taking your time out to grant me this interview and try to find out what the history of the University of Florida, and again, I’m glad to know that we finally got there a Black president as of next Tuesday. I’m glad things changed and hope everything continue to be the same in the future. I wanna look at the best side, we’re looking for the better part. If the University of Florida keeps functioning the way they are and things keep churning, we’ll be fine. It’s always been a privilege to work with a company like Airmark that provides services for the students on campus, which is great. We enjoy it and it’s not bad, and they’re willing to be flexible with the kids. When the kids want something, they try to provide it for them. So it’s not a bad idea. I’ve seen a lot of changes on this campus and the ones I’ve seen are for the best. I just hope it continues to go in the way that it’s going. If it do that, we’ll be fine. Again, I thank you both for the opportunity to tell a little bit of history of the University of Florida from me, John Booth, which is fine. Thanks a lot.

	W:	Thank you, Mr. Booth.



	B:	All right. Appreciate it. Y’all take care. [End of interview]







	Transcribed by:	February 3, 2021





	Audit-edited by:	Kasamba Kokayi March 9, 2021 Sandra Romero May 20, 2021 Final edited by:	Sandra Romero, May 20, 2021