AAHP 567; Stevens; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 567 Betty Stevens

Interviewed by Quanisha Madison on January, 1, 2018 58 minutes | 42 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Ms. Stevens recounts her family’s experiences living in Southern Georgia, as well as her own experiences upon moving to New York. She discusses her career in nursing, as well as her adoption of children from foster care. Also covered is her role in church leadership, as well as her recollections of the Civil Rights Movement in both New York and the South, though she was not directly involved.



Keywords: [African American History; Georgia; New York; New York City; nursing; church; Civil Rights Movement; ]



Standards

	SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.

	SS.912.A.7.5 Civil rights tactics



AAHP 567

Interviewee: Betty Stevens Interviewer: Quanisha Madison Date: January 1, 2018



	M:	Hello, my name is Quanisha Madison. This interview was created on January 1st, 2018 for the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program for the African American History Project. We interview Betty Stevens, but her maiden name is Betty Madison, on this day. Calling to talk to Betty Madison?

	S:	You mean Betty Stevens. [Laughter] M:	Betty! Oh I’m sorry Betty—

	S:	Are you my brother’s daughter — or granddaughter? M:	Yes.

	S:	Hold on just a minute, let me get Dot off the phone, hold on just a minute. Dot.



Dot. Hello Dot? I guess she gone. You still there?



	M:	Yeah, I’m still here. S:	Yeah, okay.

	M:	Oh yeah, I just wanted to talk to you ‘cause I wanted to ask you some questions. S:	Uh-huh.

	M:	Okay. Are you able to ask— because I called not too long ago, well, this week, and I just wanted to ask you some questions. You know, to get to know our family and stuff.

	S:	Some of them, not all of them, though. M:	Yeah.





	S:	I know, which one are you looking for, the Madison or the—I don’t know a lot. I met my grandmother when I was four years old, I can’t remember her name, though. But I know my daddy and I never met my granddaddy, my granddaddy died before my daddy married my momma. But I know my momma’s daddy.

	M:	Okay, it’s okay for me to ask you some questions?



	S:	Yeah, if I can answer them, if I don’t I can’t. Go ahead.



	M:	Okay, so, what is your first and last name and your maiden name too? S:	My maiden name is Madison.

	M:	And what is your name now? S:	Stevens. S-T-E-V-E-N-S.

	M:	Okay. Can you tell me about your parents and your family background? So, like, where do they live, or just like who are your parents’ names?

	S:	My phone is a little bit low. Now what you say now?



	M:	I said can you tell me your family background? Who are your family’s names? S:	Oh like my mother?

	M:	Yeah like your mother and your father.



	S:	My mother was a Morgan. And her father was Ethlan Morgan. M:	Okay. And can you tell me their first names?





S:  His first name was Ethlan. You mean my mother’s first name? My mother’s first name was Carrie. C-A-R-R-I-E. ‘Cause she stayed with me for twenty-four years in New York.

M:   Oh wow. And so what do your parents do for a living?



	S:	You know about what everybody did down here in those days was sharecrop [Laughter].

M:   Oh yeah.



S:   Daddy and momma sharecropped.



	M:	Okay, so what are the duties of sharecropping? Is it mostly farming or—?



	S:	Yeah, farming, that’s what they called. You share land, you rent land from somebody. You called it “Sharecropping,” that’s what they called it then.

	M:	Oh okay. Can you tell me the things that you remember when you were a child growing up? It can be like any type of story.

	S:	Any type of what now?



	M:	Like, do you remember things when you were growing up?



	S:	I just remember I had a good time. I enjoyed my life when I was growing up. We had a, my mother and my father had a lot of kids, but, I don’t know how they stood it but I enjoyed it. I never did without food when I was growing up, I was always comfortable. I don’t know how they was though [Laughter]. Daddy and Momma they had thirteen kids. They had two died at birth. She had twins, the first set of kids she had was twins.





	M:	And, can you like, tell me the things that you remember about your mother when you were growing up?

	S:	When I was growing up when I was younger? M:	Yeah, when you were younger.

	S:	Well, she was a good momma and fought my Daddy out when I was seven. And my mother got married again and my step-father was Aaron Dyke She died in Dyke’s because she married again. They raised us and he died too, then after he died she came up to New York to live with me. I brought her up to New York, she was sixty-four then. She stayed with me and my kids and my husband until 1983, [19]84. Because I don’t think she lived down here after she lived with me for one year and then she had a stroke and then she passed away.

	M:	And can you tell me some of the things you remember about your father when he was alive?

	S:	Well there wasn’t too much because I was so young when he died. He was a good father and he run the farm and stuff like that but I can’t remember all that much about him because I was only seven when he passed away. I remember the night when he died, he had a heart attack a week before that then he went into the hospital. And then when he came home on a Friday night, he was playing with us like he’d never played with us before and then he went and laid down and we had all those beds, I don’t know if you know anything about it, your father probably, all those beds in one room, like two or three beds in one room. And they had, in my mother’s room, they had a—I guess now we call then four-





way beds, they small beds, and he went in there and laid down and after I laid down for about fifteen or twenty minutes Momma came to my bed and told me he had went to sleep but he was dead. And I can’t remember too much more because I was only seven years old, I know when he died it drove me crazy. I ran over to my brother’s house, the oldest brother, and I was out of my mind. And I know this White guy used to be, he was a sharecropper too, he worked on the same land, he had to run and get me and shake me to get me straightened out because I couldn’t believe my father had died. Other than that, I don’t too much more about him. I was so small or young I was just running around with the other kids there. But Momma stayed with me for years. She babysat for me while I worked up there. She had her own life too, she did some upholstery and stuff like that. You know she, when she came down here, they brought her down here because she had dementia. And she was doing things that she shouldn’t do. I mean, that was dangerous for her to be left by herself.

	M:	Oh, like what type of things did she do?



	S:	Like her mind would leave her and she went with people to New York. Now I lived sixty miles from New York City and she would go with people to church there. There was another, Plain Truth Church or whatever it was. But anyway, I didn’t go to that church, I went to the oldest church. But she was trying to walk from Newburgh, New York to New York City to church. And I was working but that day I was off and I came home and I went shopping and told the kids to watch her and she had left the house. So I came back and I saw her because we were there about to run over, and I almost lost my breath because I saw it was





my mother. I didn’t know she was like that, you know, and her mind was going like that. So I went and got her and brought her back to the store. It was a store just before my house. And I went to talk to the— I mean the guy knew me, he had been to my house and everything, but he didn’t know my momma. So he said everyday she would come down to the store and try to beat him and take a soda but she was diabetic. And I didn’t know that. He said “I didn’t know that was your mother, I would have gave her the sodas anyway.” But I said “No she didn’t need the sodas because she diabetic.” But he said she’d try to beat him with the bottle because her mind was going. And Helen and Jim Lee came up to stay the week with me to see how it was because he said it was only one of me in New York and that was too much to work with all the kids that I had. And, you know, my husband he was like sick off and on, too. So he came up there and we went to shopping and went in the shop right and while he and my sister-in-law were shopping she told me she had to go to the bathroom, so I went to get the key and my sister-in-law was waiting for me to come back and she sit down in the store and just pooped all in the store. Helen would say “I know her mind is gone now” because she said everybody was in— all my sisters and things and brothers were down south. They took her back to they house and then Leroy and his wife came and got her and took her back, I’d say Evelien was keeping her. Evelien keep her for a while then Katherine— I don’t know if you remember my sister Katherine, she passed when she was sixty-two.

	M:	Oh, yeah because I think— S:	You don’t remember her?





	M:	Yeah, I don’t.



	S:	About how old are you, twenty-four? No you probably wasn’t around then, you wasn’t even born then [Laughter]. Because that was a long time ago.

	M:	So how many siblings do you have, or just like how many sisters? S:	How many sisters now? Alive?

	M:	Either alive or now.



	S:	It was six girls and five boys. M:	Okay.

	S:	Alive. But now, we only got three sisters and I think it’s three brothers. Leroy, Arthur Lee, and Jim Lee is the three brothers and me and Jolene and Dorothy is the three girls. One passed when I was in the hospital. Two years ago I was in the hospital for a year and when I was in the hospital she passed and I didn’t go to the funeral because I was so sick they wouldn’t let me out the hospital in Savannah.

	M:	Can you tell me some stuff about the things that you remember about your sister Katherine? When she was living?

	S:	Well, it’s hard. She had a lot of kids [Laughter]. I helped raise three of her kids.



Willy James and Ernestine. Ernestine got shot and killed by some guy. The other one I didn’t take care of. I think she had about eleven kids. I’m not sure, I lost count. She stayed in New York with me for a while then her and her husband came back to Georgia.





	M:	Have you ever met her husband?



	S:	Oh yeah, he stayed in New York with us until they got a place. He got a job and they stayed there for about seven or eight years then they came back to Georgia. Ed died not that long ago, I didn’t get to go to his funeral too because I think I was in the hospital when he died. They lived in Albany, his two daughters. She had a daughter and a son for him and they lived in Albany. Let me see, she had two for him and I got to see how many others she had because she had a lot of them. She had two sets of twins and that was four. And then she had two other boys, five, six, seven, eight, nine. She had ten kids. One of her sons lived in— can’t remember the name of the city, it’s in Florida up there by Daytona.

	M:	Is it…?



	S:	It’s up above you all from Gainesville, you must know the name because we used to come down to your house all the time. He brought us down there a couple of times but that’s been so long. Not even that. You was probably a little child then.

	M:	Yeah around the time when he used to come over.



	S:	She had ten kids, and I think Jolene had eight. I think Bee, she had eight, seven. Bee must have had seven. I think Donna had— I think she had about seven, too.

	M:	All right. Do you at all remember some of the kids’ names?



	S:	Well some of them I figure I could remember. Now Dorothy’s kids I could remember I think. I don’t really, from that marriage I don’t know the last names. I





probably can’t pronounce Michelle’s husband’s name [Laughter]. But, Michelle and Anthony and David and one was named after my husband Jacob. And let me see, I can’t remember the other ones’ names that lives in Atlanta. She got one that live in Atlanta and then she got a daughter named Joann and one named Bea Lewis, she only got three daughters.

	M:	Okay. And, what are their last names?



	S:	Some of them are Jones, I don’t know who Anthony and Joann, I mean, not Joann Michelle. They were different fathers so I don’t know, I never met they fathers before. But Joann, Bea Lewis, and David and Jacob and— can’t remember the other one’s name that lives in Atlanta, they all were Jones. J-O-N- E-S.

	M:	Do you remember some things about your sister Beatrice when she was alive?



	S:	Oh yeah, she was a great lady, she kept everybody, she was a good lady. She was a missionary, she kept everybody at the house. Preachers, people that didn’t have a place to stay. We used to come and stay with her. She had a big house in Moultrie but they burned it down because they wanted to buy. They started to burn it down but she sued them. But she bought her another house, but she had three. Wait, one, two, three, four daughters. And a kid in New Jersey. And then she got—

	M:	Oh, sorry. What was the reason why they burned down the house?



	S:	Well they wanted to buy that property for the clinic there and she wouldn’t sell it. We spoke to her because my niece Jolene son was in the fire department and he





said they literally let it burn. He don’t know who set the fire but they literally stood there and let it burn down. He was a little late coming and he was upset and he left the fire department for Moultrie and went to Atlanta because he said he couldn’t take that because they let his aunt’s house burn down. But they wanted to buy it before that, and I think the lawyer, he sued them. Because they think they had somebody burn it down, I don’t know how the case went but they did sue them. But they still built the clinic there.

	M:	Oh, wow. What is the name of the clinic?



	S:	I don’t know the name of the clinic because I don’t never lived in Moultrie before.



Yeah, that’s one part of Georgia. We grew up in like Summer, Ty Ty, and all them was kind of tempting different places like that. When I was here they didn’t live in Moultrie. When I got married and moved away to New York, then they moved to Moultrie, because I was in New York most of my life after I got married. I was nineteen when I went to New York. But the rest of them lived in Moultrie. I don’t know too much about Moultrie. I think, Norman, I don’t know all of his kid’s names either, I know some of them. But not all them, they all nicknames.

	M:	But, who was the person that you were most close to out of your siblings? S:	Out of my family?

	M:	Yeah, just out of your family who are you most close to?



	S:	Well really I was close to Beatrice. And I was close to Jimmy. Well, I was close to most of my sisters but I was more closer to Jimmy because I lived around him most of my life in New York, so we were really closer.





	M:	Could you tell me more about him? Like, just like —



	S:	Well, he was a [Inaudible 17:05]. He still evangelizing, I shouldn’t say that. He run a lot of restaurants in New York. I don’t know the name of them, I can’t remember them, but he had a restaurant in New York. And he worked for a Firestone tire company. And he got married, he was married before he went to New York but he divorced his wife to go with her then he came to New York and married again. I think he had three kids for his wife and she lives in Tallahassee. She had one when she married him, his wife from New York Helen. She passed away a few years ago. And his daughter she still lives in Charlotte where he at. And his step-son is in Charlotte. And she runs a big hair company and she has you know, barber shops, she got a lot of business. She a running little lady [Laughter]. But he out there, her name is Jackie, I know her name because she— we get up there with them in New York. And Randy’s his step-son.

	M:	Okay. And, can you tell me about your experiences of life in New York City and how did it change when you were living up there?

	S:	How was I living up there?



	M:	Yeah, or just like, when you were living in New York what are your experiences from it?

	S:	Well, it was [Laughter]. I have to say when we first went up there it was a little rough because his sister was up there and he was up there with his sister when we first got married. And I went up there later, didn’t know it was that hard in New York. But we lived there then we had a few kids and he took him a few months to





get a job, the right kind of job. He was shoveling shit while we was trying to make it and we did as much as we could with what we had. And then he got a good job and things started to move on. We bought a car. It was an old car, but it was a car, it took us where we wanted to go. And I had one kid in Georgia and I had the second kid in New York. Shirley, I don’t know if you’ve met. You did meet Shirley because we went to funerals and stuff and y’all with us right? Because we went to some funerals in Albany and y’all came, when your car was robbed.

Remember that? Did you come with them?



	M:	I think so. I think I did.



	S:	Yeah, Shirley was with me, then. I don’t know if you officially met her, we ate down in [Inaudible 19:35]. But anyway, she was my second child. I had had one in Georgia, the first one, she’s sixty-one I think now, something like that. She will be sixty-one. He got a good job. And we moved out of our apartment and moved to the next apartment and the next apartment. Then finally I had four kids, and we bought a house. Christmas was a little rougher that time and we were all up there. And then, after we bought the house and I had one kid, I brought Momma up there with me. Because she came up in nineteen— let’s see now. She was up there for twenty-four years so, it must been 1958 I guess, no [19]62. She came up in [19]62 because I just the one I thought was my last child. And fourteen years, thirteen years later I had another one. After when I’d just came back from St. Augustine but she lives in New York. And my son-in-law, she’s works in a hospital, she’s a general practitioner, and then he’s a counselor for the state. You know, for [Inaudible 20:52]. And I have, two daughters in Charlotte. One is a





nurse and one work for building for ten hospitals. And then I got one daughter here, she a department manager at Walmart. And I got a son in New York. He works for IBM.

	M:	Oh, wow.



	S:	And I have another son, he’s in New York. Adopted son. I adopted seven kids after that. Five boys and two girls. One of my daughters died in 2011, and she was twenty-five. And I had, that’s the one I have her daughter, I’m raising her daughter now. I have five other boys, they have kids. They only have one kid, each. And then, my last daughter is twenty-seven, she got two kids. The one I adopted. I adopted seven, they from forty-three to twenty-seven. And my baby biological daughter, is forty-three.

	M:	So from those experiences adopting, how was the adoption process when you adopted your kids around that time?

	S:	How was the process? M:	Yeah.

	S:	When I went to the hospital I was a nurse at the hospital so I had worked in the oral for fourteen years then I went to peds [pediatrics] that’s what I really loved working on peds though I couldn’t get it when I got out of school so after fourteen years I went down to peds and in my mind I never thought of adopting kids but I saw things were so bad with so many kids. Parents were treating them so bad and they were taking them away, they had no home to go to, putting them like in these orphan homes, houses, and stuff. And I had one home down where I lived





before I bought my house on Graham Street and I used to take all of the kids from the home like holidays and stuff and I would have at my house feed them and stuff like that and they got to know my husband and then they left us. So I never thought of adopting them but when I went to work and I saw younger kids were treated so badly we adopted one that— my daughter was home by herself, I adopted a boy her same age. That was the one in Gainesville. And then when I was in peds I decided that I wanted to adopt kids because they were treated so bad I felt so sorry for them, my heart went out for those kids. But when I wanted to adopt them they wouldn’t let me adopt them because they don’t want you to get too close to kids on the floor. When you working on the floor with them, and they don’t want you to adopt them. But after I retired and I left, and I adopted a sick baby from New York City. She was really sick and they wanted somebody that had medical background to take care of her so I wasn’t gonna adopt her I was gonna foster care her. Because they took them two years to find out where she was and they never—we took care of her for two years and then they finally find out where she was and then they start — [break in recording]. You still there?

	M:	Yeah, I’m still here. [Break in recording] Yeah, I was just listening.



	S:	She’ll have to call me back, I’ll call her back later. She have to keep beeping because I call her back later. But then I adopted her. Then after I left the hospital I adopted him first, the boy, that’s forty-three, and I had him for a while. Then I adopted the girl from New York, Kyara, the one that passed away? She had a lot of medical problems. And the one I adopted from Albany Medical Center. She





was supposed to have died at ten months but she didn’t. Well, God kept her, that’s what he did. But anyway I adopted another boy, he’s married, he’s in Jessup, Tyrell. He’s thirty-three, I think he’s thirty-three. Then I adopted three brothers. And, one of the brothers is thirty-three, one is thirty-one, and the other, right now, not when I got them they was younger, one is twenty-nine. But they were all three brothers that was mistreated and everything so. Me and my husband, we kept them for a while. We were supposed to keep them until somebody else wanted to adopt them but then we started to f ell in love with them and we adopted them and we brought them down to Georgia. Not that they all turned out good. Some of them turned out good and some didn’t, but you can’t win them all. As long as you help some of them. I mean they doing better now, but they got in trouble before they did better [Laughter]. I had twelve in all, I had twelve kids in all, with seven adopted, had five on my own.

	M:	Oh. Oh, wow. Can you tell me about how many years have you did nursing?



	S:	Well I only worked there twenty-three years. I worked in the OR for fourteen years and I floated for one year like ICU, you know, from different places, down in emergency room and I think it was wound care I worked at for a little while.

And I worked in surgery for a while. For surgery. And then I went to peds, I worked for peds, I left peds, I worked peds for seven years and then I retired after that and started to take kids.

	M:	Can you tell me about what was it like when you went to school? Like what subjects did you like the most and—?





	S:	You mean what, public school or . . . ? M:	Yeah, it can be public school.

	S:	Well I went to public school down here. When I went to public school down here I went up to eleventh grade and they didn’t have no school to graduate for Black kids. It was just you went to eleventh grade and that was it. And then I guess when the school burned down they built the next school they went up to the twelfth grade. And then when I went to New York I got my GED and I went back to school. I went to college twice. Not college, I went to the hospital nursing program. And then I went to college later on and I went for business management but I didn’t finish that because my kids were too small. But I was punishing them by neglecting them to go to school [Laughter]. But then I went a year and dropped out of that but I went for nursing for twenty, almost twenty-four years, really, I went to nursing.

	M:	If you were to continue on the path of starting your own business, which business would wanted to start?

	S:	You mean now or then? Then I wanted to be a nurse all my life [Laughter]. M:	Oh, wow.

	S:	I always wanted to be a nurse when I was younger but then I got a little afraid when I saw somebody lay on the stretcher I thought they were dead but when I when I got married and I went to New York I had the opportunity to go to get my nursing degree and then go to do whatever I wanted then because I was making money. Because they paid you when you went to nursing school in the hospital.





It was a school, not a college. They had interns there and they had nursing, you know, they trained in the hospital.

	M:	Oh, okay. Do you remember the hospital’s name?



	S:	And then after that they closed it down and then you had to go to college after that. Because that was a long time ago. Because some of the nurses would get their degree, they didn’t have to go to school. They just worked in the hospital for a while and some of the girls that was like doing nursing in the service, they would give them they license for nursing when they came back to the states. But I didn’t do that, I didn’t go to no service. Some of the nurses did that I worked with. And all they had to do was take a test.

	M:	Oh, okay. So it was like a certification test that you take. I know they still have the CNA, it’s like a certification test for nurses.

	S:	The what now?



	M:	I know here, now, we have like CNA, so that’s like the certification test for, you know.

	S:	For nurse’s aides? M:	Yeah, nurse’s aides.

	S:	Yeah, they had PNs too, but I don’t think. I think they sort of done away with that. M:	Yeah, I think so.

	S:	Because I think aides here, in this city where I am now, they used to have to go that long. Used to go six months. Now they have to go a year.





	M:	Oh.



	S:	You get certified. I guess the ones that six months didn’t get certified like the ones are now. They almost like LPNs. They used to cut out the LPNs, they start train them and certify them, but they can do things a little— “PNA,” they call them in New York, and they can do more things than a regular aide.

	M:	Okay. Does your family have any heirlooms or just like memorabilia like photo albums that you keep?

	S:	No, they didn’t take pictures in my family time. I mean, my time, I have some pictures. But when I was younger we didn’t have cameras and stuff like we got now. What we did, I don’t know if you remember, your daddy can tell you if he— I know he remembers. We used to take pictures in a ten cents store, they had a booth that you go in and put a quarter in and take three black pictures, and that’s all the pictures I remember them taking at the time, when I was coming up.

Because see I’m eighty-two years old now, so.



	M:	Oh, yeah.



	S:	I’m talking with Leroy, Jim. You got to go to the bathroom? That’s my daughter coming in here. [Inaudible 30:36] granddaughter.

	SS:	Oh, tell her I said “Hi.”



	S:	That’s my daughter, she said hi, she just come here from work. M:	Oh, okay. Tell her I said “Hey.”





	S:	She said hey, Shirley. She had to run to the bathroom [Laughter]. Yeah, I don’t know, I lived in New York for fifty-three years I think it was.

	M:	Oh, wow. So, do you remember any historical moments that happened in New York? Or do you remember the actual city? Could you just describe it for me? Was it always busy, or . . .

	S:	It always busy, I mean busy, busy. That’s why I left, when you get old you can’t take it. But I couldn’t take the snow up there, there was too much snow, and when you get old you can’t stand all that cold weather.

	M:	Oh, yeah.



S:   And my husband got sick, too. He had, he worked at a place that has asbestos in it, and he — it messed up his lungs so we had to move out of that place because he kept getting pneumonia the doctors suggest that we go to a warmer climate.

So that’s why we came to Jessup because Dot live here. We were going to move to Moultrie but we couldn’t find a place that was big enough for us and the kids. So it was, the house that we want. I don’t know if you ever — I don’t know, you might have. Did you came with your father to a funeral in Jessup? My husband’s funeral?

	M:	Yeah, I think so.



	S:	Because you twenty-four so you probably was— M:	Yeah, I probably came.





	S:	That’s, it’s been twelve years ago so you would have at least like eleven or twelve, you had to be twelve years old, then. You came with your grandfather?

	M:	Yeah, I think I remember that funeral when I went.



	S:	Yeah, the two houses that were on the hill on North Plum Street. We ain’t in there now, I sold them two houses when he died and I bought a mobile home. And I live different here, I live in the country now. Everybody thought that was the country, it looked like the country, but I am in the country now [Laughter]. Yeah.

	M:	Yeah, but which place did you like the most? Did you like Georgia or did you like New York?

	S:	Well I like Georgia down here now but when I was in New York and I was younger I really loved it in New York because you got more things to do when you younger up there. More places to go, you know? And when we lived in Newburgh, New York, so that was where George Washington live, and not too far from Roosevelt place, too. Where he used to live as a president. And we did, we had a lot of historical places around there. And I really enjoyed going to go to New York City. We went to ball games, Mets games. We got to know the Mets so well they was giving us tickets to go to the games. They knew my son very well and they were giving him balls and stuff like that because they got they, you know, [Inaudible 33:10] the ball day, I think they call it. Some kind of day. I didn’t go around there but my son, my husband— we all went to the ball game but we didn’t go on that day to get them going and associate with the ball players. But, it was a lot of things to do in New York. And my kids had a lot of things to do, but





we had to move when he got sick. But it was a good thing because it’s too cold up there.

	M:	Definitely.



	S:	Oh, go ahead.



	M:	Oh, I’m sorry. What was your favorite music? Or did you like to sing when you were in New York or did you . . .?

	S:	When I was in New York I got saved when I was thirty-two. M:	Okay.

	S:	And I start working for TVN and the prime minister, head of the prime minister, and I became a superintendent of the synagogue churches, a big church. I used to—what do they call it? I got my license for ministry in 1992 I think it was. And I did women ministry in New York in different places in different churches, you know, Methodist, Baptist, whatever church that wanted me, I would do ministry there. I never did anything like, you know like in the streets, I went with my husband. But when I got thirty-two I started to take a little sip of drink and then I quit that after a couple years. I started smoking too when I worked at the hospital, I quit that too. But I was mostly a church person, a God person. I shouldn’t say church. A God person. I love the Lord, I like. When I was eight years old I was in the Baptist church and my mother and my father, my father was a deacon and my mother was, I don’t know what they call them, missionaries or something. But anyway, I was the head of the young people’s [Inaudible 35:13] board. And they would have, like, the first Sunday they would go away for some they would call it,





I don’t remember. But I wrote an essay that won first prize in the church and at that time ten dollars was a lot of money. They gave me ten dollars and a Bible, and I got my bible and I would read it every day, all the time. I used to love to read the Bible. Didn’t understand really what it mean but I read it. And my mother told me one time that I read, she was upset— not upset, there was a word that I was reading so much that she said: “You know, I know this girl. She read so much and ‘til one night her eyes fell out” [Laughter]. She thought I was eight years old I was too young to sit and read all the time. I used to love to read. And then, one night, I was in the house. You know we used to have those kerosene lamps and those windows you couldn’t see out of, those wooden windows? We had to light them at night. So I woke up one night and felt a tear coming out of my eye and I thought my eyes were falling out [Laughter]. And Momma almost dropped the kerosene lamp while she was trying to light it because she thought it was really happening then she told me the truth after that: “I did that because I didn’t want you to read so much.” But I had won that Bible I wanted to read that Bible, I used to read it through every year. And I don’t know if [Inaudible 36:34] but I did a few things I shouldn’t have when I went up to New York, you know you get a little wild and you get out and then you come back in [Laughter]. But I enjoyed it most in the church, though, I really do. Because then I go back down there now and I do some speaking. I stay with my daughter all summer. When my granddaughter get out of school in April I go down to her and stay until August then I come back up here. I don’t stay here like I did before that’s why I





didn’t make it to the family reunion this year because she couldn’t bring me back up.

	M:	Oh, okay. Oh, that’s why. Yeah, like —



	S:	That’s why I didn’t show up there this year. Because she had brought me down but she was gonna bring me back and she didn’t know they were having the family reunion. Did they tell y’all they were gonna have one this year?

	M:	They actually messaged us. They sent us a text message. But, like, it was a shock, yeah they told us they were having a family reunion.

	S:	But they ain’t send no letters out because they told me too but my daughter, she just left. She said they weren’t sure of the note because she wanted to have her time when she could come down at the time. Because they like going on vacation for they anniversary, different stuff like that, but she wanted to have that time planned but I don’t think— Michelle was supposed to have it. But I don’t know if she’s having it or not because I ain’t heard nothing about it.

	M:	Oh. Yeah, I wonder. Like, hopefully they’ll have family reunions this year.



	S:	I hope so because my daughter would have come back down to it. But, she went to the ones that we had in Valdosta but she didn’t come to this one. She said she gotta get a time when she can come because she can’t just leave a patient at any time. She gotta make a plan when she gonna work at the hospital or either at the office so she gonna make a plan. But she wouldn’t, I told her: “Michelle let me know.”





	M:	Definitely.



	S:	I mean, I’m enjoying Jessup, I love it because it’s quiet. I had enough fast life [Laughter]. But it’s really nice here, the people are nice, too. And the church I go to is nice. I think you went to the church, because that was Unity Church of God. That’s where they had my husband’s funeral at when y’all came down, I don’t know if you remember it. But you was twelve, you should remember the church, because it was a big church with a gym, and everything they fit us in the back.

	M:	Oh yeah, I remember it, it was nice. S:	That was a long—I beg your pardon? M:	It was a really nice church.

	S:	Yeah. We have the new part now. That was just the old part. We build a bigger part now that may hold about two thousand. The other one hold nine hundred. But they built another— they were building it before my husband died but he didn’t live to see it finished, he had started it off but he didn’t live. You know, they find out he had cancer of the pancreas, and he died right away. He didn’t live that long afterwards.

	M:	What were your hobbies and what stuff did you enjoy doing? Were you a part of any groups or clubs?

	S:	Well I enjoyed doing a lot of things. I was growing flowers. I used to grow flowers that used to be in the magazines up there in where I was in the city I was in. [Inaudible 39:56] would take pictures of my house, especially at Christmas time. I





don’t do it now, but I had flowers. They loved my flowers, they would come by and take pictures and some of the people would put them in the magazines. But I still love flowers. I like planting, I like working outside. And then I used to like taking care of older people. Like, certain days I would go out and take them food or baskets or stuff like at the senior citizen building. I used to love that, too. I love going to the hospital to visit patients. When I was in New York, when I left the hospital, they assigned me to go in to the hospital to help out with the patients that needed their church and stuff like that. I enjoyed all that stuff. And prison, I taught in prison for a few years in Napanoch, New York. And I taught the [unintelligible 40:47] in the prison Tuesday and on Thursday I taught the prison Bible study. And I had two foster kids that I took them in there and they let me go in there with them kids. They could have took them kids and me for hostage but I guess they really wanted to know about the Lord so — I didn’t think about that until the kids got grown [Laughter]. But I enjoyed doing that, too. And that camping, I enjoyed camping with the kids, we used to camp all the time.

	M:	Oh that’s cool! Yeah, I always wanted to go camping —



	S:	We have a place around that valley in New York so we — we had an RV when we moved here but I sold — I got rid of it after my husband died because I couldn’t handle that. So we used to take it down to New York and go back to the resort that we had bought into. So we just stayed down there anytime we wanted to. With the RV we didn’t have to pay, all we had to pay for was the — because we bought in all we had to pay for was the cable bill, that’s it. And we took all the





kids down there and they slept in tents and we slept in the RV. They could have slept in the RV but they liked tents [Laughter].

	M:	And did you, oh I’m sorry, did you — were you a part, or like, do you remember anything from when the Civil Rights Movement was going on around that time?

	S:	Well they didn’t have too much of that up there in the area I was in. Everybody was very close and they didn’t have — when things started to break — when people started thinking about stuff like that they didn’t do they self it was out in, you know, in the area I was in. In New York City they had a lot of marching but I wasn’t involved in that. And they had it in the South, because the people in the North wasn’t that bad, but it was the South. And I was up here, I was in New York when Martin Luther King was doing the march. I mean, people left there and went down there but they mostly White people went down to the march because they mostly got killed, they didn’t get back there. But I remember that march, and I was up there when they were going to march in 19 — in the sixties they were doing the marching up there. And I was up there when Martin Luther King got killed, because I had my fourth child then, I think it was the fourth child. [Unintelligible 43:03] got killed I was in New York. But a lot of people went down, mostly White people went down and marched, in the South when that civil rights group was marching. They used to take busloads down there.

	M:	Oh, wow. And, what family traditions did you establish or was passed down in your family? It could be food, recipes, or —

	S:	Say what now?





	M:	What family traditions did you make or was it passed down from your mother?



Like it could be cooking recipes or just anything.



	S:	Oh yeah, I do have some recipes, not too many. Momma didn’t make out no recipes, she just do it by pinch, by pinch [Laughter]. But one thing I know my mother, I don’t know if I have the recipe or not, but they — the rolls. She used to make the best yeast rolls. She made them every weekend at my house and they would smell so good. And Momma could cook possum, they smell so good but I wouldn’t eat them. She would cook them and they smelled so good with potatoes around them. Momma was a good cook, though. But she never wrote out anything what I’m trying to say. Like recipes, I got recipes but they wasn’t — because I put some of my recipes like black-eyed pea soup in the school recipe book when one of my adopted sons was going to school, but my mother never wrote down any recipes. She did it by memory, you know, pinch by pinch [Laughter]. You know, that kind of cooking, everything came out good, though.

	M:	Yeah, definitely. Because Granddaddy, he always cooked, like, he carried on in his tradition. Because he said his mom taught him the recipe, making the blueberry doobie.

	S:	The blueberry what now? M:	The blueberry doobie.

	S:	Blueberry boobies?



	M:	Yeah, that’s what he calls it, it’s like a blueberry doobie. It’s something like a peach cobbler, but it’s made with blueberries.





	S:	Oh yeah, she taught us to make it but she didn’t give us the recipe [Laughter]. M:	Oh yeah.

	S:	She never had a recipe, Momma never had the recipes. But I know Momma used to make one, she did a blueberry one, mulberry one, she was a New Yorker, a peach one. Peach [unintelligible 45:15] whatever it was. She used to make that all the time.

	M:	Did your mom ever talk about her childhood when she was living with you? I know she —

	S:	No, because my mother’s mother died when she was four. M:	Okay.

	S:	Momma, she said her mother was combing her hair, when she was four, and she was standing around the fireplace and her robe caught on fire and she ran away, you know, and people couldn’t catch her. And then, I guess the smoke inhalation, whatever it was, killed her. That’s when her father married, after that. She only had one brother, and unfortunately he was younger than her. And [unintelligible 45:58] and them father, he was younger than her. So, my grandfather got married, he had another daughter, but the thing of it is she left home when she was sixteen and they never saw her again. She went to Chicago. And they never found out where she was, probably she dead now, but they never found out where she was.

	M:	Oh wow, do you know her name?





	S:	I think Momma said her name was Beatrice.



	M:	Okay. Did she have — what was her last name? Morgan?



	S:	Morgan, yes. Because she had her father, but she didn’t have her mother. They had the same father but not the same mother. Because my grandmother that I know of, my mother’s — I mean it was her step-mother, but we called her Grandma Bueller and she was a great lady, she was so sweet. I remember when I was young and they used to call her Grandma Bueller.

	M:	Oh, okay. Do you remember —



	S:	I knew her sister, they stayed in New York where we were. M:	Oh okay, cool.

	S:	I guess, this is not their real name, this is all we ever called them: Missy and Sug [abbreviation of sugar] [Laughter]. That was, they lived in New York, and her sister missy — not Missy, Sug lived until she was a hundred, because I went to her funeral up there in New York. And Missy, I don’t know how old she lived because I left before she died. Because she was a younger one.

	M:	And, do you remember anything about your father? Did he ever talk about his childhood?

	S:	My father was young when he died, but I know he married my mother. He had two kids before he married my mother. He had been married before. So, my mother was seventeen and he was thirty-two when he got married to her. But we never met our other brothers because they were by another woman and we





never saw them. We only saw his — my father had three brothers, my Aunt Josie said, I never saw them. She said two went to New Jersey and they not Madison, they took they slave name.

	M:	Oh.



	S:	But she didn’t know it, she couldn’t tell me what the slave name was. And then he had a brother in Jacksonville. That one was a Madison. But his first name we never knew, we only saw him once when he came to my daddy’s funeral. And he was a very funny man. Somebody throwed a rock at his car and he laughed, laughed at a funeral [Laughter]. And Daddy’s sister used to be have a relationship with him. Daddy bought a house in Morgan, which they left to his children, to his mother, and his sister lived in Morgan. And he got one niece who live up there now. And that one sister Aunt Josie, she — I don’t know her married name, I know she was a Madison but I don’t know her married name, she died at a hundred and ten.

	M:	Oh, wow.



	S:	And that was when we were having a reunion at my sister’s house. That year, instead, we went to her funeral. I did. They had the reunion but we came back, me and Leroy and Betty and Dorothy and all us and my husband, we went to the funeral in Morgan. But he don’t have any sisters left now, or brothers or anything. Just nieces.

	M:	Yeah, do you know —





	S:	And I don’t know about nephews. Because I think they said the last nephew was the one died a couple of years ago.

	M:	Oh.



	S:	In Morgan, he was living up there with Rachel. Because the other — Aunt Josie’s daughter is named Rachel.

	M:	Do you remember if your father, like, when your father, did your father talk about when he was in slavery? Or like his parents was in slavery?

	S:	Their service?



	M:	Yeah, or just like anything.



	S:	I mean, that time they wasn’t putting them in the service unless it was the civil war [Laughter]. So he was — I mean my mother would’ve been a hundred and probably fifteen [unintelligible 49:45] she had to live. And my father would’ve been a lot older than that, I don’t know how old but a lot older than that. Sowhen his age, they took him when my brother was ninety-four, they would’ve took him at his age. The one that died last year, remember, I think, you and Leroy — I wanted you to come with your grandfather to that funeral but your grandfather then was dead. And last year, my older brother that passed away, he was ninety- four. They got the wrong age in that thing, he was ninety-four because my sister would’ve been ninety-six. The one that died, she was older than him. And my next oldest sister would’ve been ninety-one. And, he actually, she’s eighty-nine, would’ve been eighty-nine now, talking [unintelligible 50:25]. But, and my sister in Moultrie is eighty-seven. She’s older than your father, your father’s next to her,





as a child. And Jimmy is next to your father and I’m next to Jimmy. And then my brother that died, Collier, he was next to me and Dorothy she was next to him and my baby brother Leroy. He’s the baby, he’s seventy-five.

	M:	Oh, wow.



	S:	We all getting old, honey [Laughter].



	M:	That’s why I think it’s important to get to know your family. Because — S:	Yeah. If I find any, if I can think of any more information I’ll —

	M:	Definitely.



	S:	I’ll probably — when I think about it I have to write it down because when I talk to people sometimes you forget what you know [Laughter].

	M:	Definitely.



	S:	Because sometimes, I have to, like you going to the doctor, you get to the doctor you forget what you gonna tell him [Laughter]. So if I remember anything, maybe my sister Jolene could help me out, too. Because she remember a lot of stuff because she’s older than. And if anybody tells me anything, and my brother, if they tell me — because he knew a lot too. If I get anything out of him I’ll just write it down and let you know.

	M:	Okay. But do you have —



	S:	And I got your number, I’ve got your father’s number, so I can call your house. M:	Definitely. Do you have —





	S:	Yeah, I’ll write it down on paper and I can tell you, you know, in order, in sequence.

	M:	Do you have Jolene’s number? S:	Yeah, it’s, you got a pen?

	M:	Yes.



	S:	It’s, the area code is nine — one — nine. M:	Mmhm.

	S:	You got that?



	M:	Yep.



	S:	Eight — three — two. Oh [zero] — four — four — six. He might be able to tell you a lot more than me because he’s older than me, too. He was older when his father died, because I think he got married after his father died, him and Arthur Lee. They both got married I think almost the same time. And they married two cousins.

	M:	Yeah, because Granddaddy was telling me that when he got married to my great-grandmother, and then Jimmy Lee he got married to his wife. And then when —

	S:	Amalie, yeah Amalie the one that live in Tallahassee, yeah. M:	Amalie, yeah.





	S:	They almost right at the same time, yep. Yep, well if I get any more information I’ll let you know, okay?

	M:	Okay.



	S:	Okay, I hope I helped you out some but I might — you know, sometimes you can’t think of everything at one time but when I get walking around and think of something I’ll write it down.

	M:	Definitely. But, write down my number and I’ll definitely — S:	Oh you got a different number from your daddy?

	M:	Yeah. This is my cellphone number.



	S:	Oh your cellphone number. Hold on just a minute, let me get a pen and a piece of paper.

	M:	Okay.



	S:	I gotta get your name too, you gotta spell it for me. When you get old you can’t — I can spell, I can spell good, sometimes you just have to think before you can spell now [Laughter]. I still do a lot of things, I mean, people tell me: “You do good for your age, I wish I was that way.” But, I don’t know how many things I’m doing but I don’t feel like I’m doing that much [Laughter].

	M:	I think you’re doing a lot of stuff, though. S:	Huh?

	M:	I said I think you’re doing a lot of stuff, so, like.





	S:	Well, I guess so. God is best. I mean, I shouldn’t complain because some people done gone on and they never got to this age. I should thank God that I’m still here because I was supposed to be dead. Hell, three hospitals told me put me in a nursing home and let me die. But God said: “No, she gonna stay here because I got something for her to do.” I don’t know what it is, but I’m gonna do it whatever it is [Laughter]. Okay, what’s your name now?

	M:	My name is Quanisha. It’s Q — U — A — S:	Q?

	M:	Yep.



	S:	Q — U?



	M:	A.



	S:	A.



	M:	N.



	S:	C.



	M:	N.



	S:	N?



	M:	Yep.



	S:	E or N?



	M:	N.





	S:	Oh, okay.



	M:	I.



	S:	Uh-huh.



	M:	S.



	S:	Uh-huh.



	M:	H.



	S:	H?



	M:	Yep. And A.



	S:	Yeah, that’s different. That’s a different name. M:	[Laughter].

	S:	Now whenever you get the phone up — M:	I get that a lot.

	S:	I beg your pardon?



	M:	I get that a lot when people say my name.



	[Ms. Stevens’ granddaughter speaks in background, unintelligible.] S:	Wait Monique, on the phone.

	M:	And my last name.



	S:	That’s my granddaughter. Now what’s your telephone number?







M:

Okay, it’s 3-5-2.

S:

3-5-2.

M:

2-1-9.

S:

Wait now, I didn’t have the phone to my ear. What now?

M:

It’s 3-5-2.

S:

I got that.

M:

2-9-1.

S:

2-0-9?

M:

Yeah, 2-1-9.

S:

2-1— nine or two? 0-9??

M:

2-1-9.

S:

Oh, the two— nine, okay. What’s the other part?

M:

2-8-8-2.

S:

2-8-8— what?

M:

82.

S:

Oh, mine are 2-1-8-2. You’re almost like mine.

M:

Yeah.

S:

And now is your last name, is it Madison or —





	M:	Madison.



	S:	Okay. I [unintelligible 55:27] have thanks [Laughter]. I don’t know [Laughter]. M:	True [Laughter].

	S:	Well you take care of yourself and I find anything else I’ll give you a call, I got your number now.

	M:	Okay, thank you, have a —



	S:	And tell everybody I said hello and I love them. M:	Okay. I definitely will —

	S:	And I hope one day to come up there. One time Leroy said he was gonna come down and take me there, he said he hope he know where he still live but he used to fish down there with your father.

	M:	Oh, they probably went to Nunu’s Lake, now that I’m thinking about it, it’s really close.

	S:	Say what now?



	M:	They probably went to Nunu’s Lake, I think. That’s where — we live really close to Nunu’s Lake. But like, yeah, I can definitely give you the address once you get ready to visit here.

	S:	Um-hm.



	M:	Yeah.



	S:	And that’s up in Gainesville?







M:

Yeah, Gainesville.

S:

Okay. Alright then, well you take care of yourself now and tell your father I said



hello.

M:

Okay.

S:

I talked to him Christmas [Laughter]. And tell him I love him so much.

M:

Okay, I’ll tell him.

S:

And your momma, too.

M:

Okay, I’ll tell her too.

S:

Huh?

M:

I said I will tell her, too.

S:

Oh, okay then. Alright then. I love you, y’all take care now.

M:

I love you too, have a —

S:

You — one time y’all stayed at my house? I forgot that, y’all stayed at — We had



something then I got a hotel room. I don’t know if you were with them or not.

M:

Huh…

S:

Know one time we had a reunion after your Uncle Jacob died? And y’all came to



my house, I got y’all a room down at the hotel?

M:

Yeah, I remember that, because didn’t we take a —

S:

Yeah, and your father and the boys stayed at my house.





M:   Oh.



S:   And my brother. Because I let out the sofa for them. I think he had, one boy or two boys, I can’t remember too much then. But, that was a long time ago. But I enjoyed y’all.

M:  Definitely. Because I think we have a group family picture. S:   Huh? You want to have a group family picture?

M:   Yeah. I mean —



	S:	You know, that would be good, to have everybody in there. You gotta get everybody in there at the same time —

	M:	Time, yeah. Because I think the last family reunion we did the, not the—



	S:	Yeah, we did. I got pictures of that from Earl. Early always send me pictures. He sent me another one but I already had one. But he sent me another one, he thought I didn’t get one at the family reunion. Because I was up in New York, because I was talking to his brother that hadn’t come either. I was up there and he was up there in New York too, his brother. But he was sick at the time, because I talked to him a lot on the phone. Yep. So okay then, I love you and you take care of yourself now.

	M:	I love you too.



	S:	It’s been very nice talking to you. M:	It was very nice talking to you, too.





	S:	Yeah, you take care, now. I love you. M:	I love you, too.

	S:	Bye-bye.



	M:	Bye.



[End of interview]









Transcribed by: Elery Ostertag, May 31, 2019



	Audio-edited by: Sandra Romero, November 2, 2020 Final edit by:	Sandra Romero, April 22, 2021