AAHP 197B; Myrick; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 197B Mary Lee Myrick African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Michelle Williamson on November 4, 2011 1 hour, 18 minutes | 37 pages



Abstract: Mary Lee Myrick continues from her previous interview by explaining what she meant in telling the interviewer that “children were children” when she was growing up. She talks about working as a child, including farm work, and the wages that she could collect. She also talks about her parents’ differing approaches to parenting, and what her household was like growing up. She also talks about her pastor in Gainesville, Rev. Thomas A. Wright of Mt. Carmel Baptist Church, and her role in the church over the years. Mrs. Myrick discusses the values that she was raised with, and their continued importance in her life today. She talks about learning to drive for the first time when she was already an adult, and what the experience was like for her.





Keywords: [African American History; Barnwell County, South Carolina; Alachua County, Florida]















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 197B

Interviewee: Mary Lee Myrick Interviewer: Michelle O’Brien Williamson Date: November 4, 2011



	MW:	Hi, this is Mary Myrick’s second interview with Michelle Williamson and we’re here to start our second interview. So you were saying how “children were children” and how you didn’t grow up knowing the rules at first. But what kind of rules were there that were specific?

	MM:	Your parents down and then didn’t talk out public like they talk now for sure.



Nobody’s children are. Children was children then until they got grown and left. Maybe some of them were smart, but my parents were slow. Cause my daddy had children older than my momma, cause he was married for the second time after his first wife died, and married a young girl or whatever. And we weren’t learnt—they didn’t talk in front of children. We didn’t learn nothing. We only be learnt by go do this and go do that. When they asked you to go do something, we didn’t learn nothing. But the little bit we went to school at the time, we learned from that. After I got married, my husband he lent me a lot of cotton money. I could clean house, I could cook, I could do all that stuff. But coming down to things like that, we didn’t know nothing about that.

	MW:	Can you tell me more about your parents, about what they did for a living or what kind of history they shared with you about your family?

	MM:	My daddy, he never did learn how to read and write ‘cause he got… My mom was older. My daddy’s first children was older than my momma, and at that rate she was just a child herself under him like we were. And we had, as far as I can say, we had a good life, and that’s all I knew about then. It’s not like it is now, but we had a good life.





	MW:	Did they share… Do you know what kind of careers they took on while you grew up?

	MM:	Nothing but farming. That’s all I can think of.



	MW:	Did they own their own land in South Carolina or did they have to rent it? MM:	No we didn’t rent it. Well now how we lived in South Carolina, if you had, as a

Black people we didn’t have anything. We had to wait for the other man and that’s how most of it come up learnt. It’s like my father and my mother all will, what we learnt, we learn it from the other person, cause I never heard nothing about college until after I got out of high school. I didn’t go to the first school we went to. I didn’t go higher than the 8th grade, and if your parent’s weren’t able to send you to a college—I had never heard nothing about college. I can’t remember it. All I used to know is boarding school. If they were able to that’s where you would go, get out of high school and they would have to take you someplace where there was a school. And you had to live with somebody else to get to school.

	MW:	Yeah, you mentioned that your sister went to boarding school.



	MM:	Yeah, I mentioned that, yeah. But if you was at home, if you weren’t able to go, you was at home, you had to work in the fields, work in the fields. And, and we didn’t work mostly for money. If this…well I’m going to say it like this… If the White guy didn’t have enough farming for you to… they’d pay you days. If you work by the day, that’s how you got your living. And to me that was a good living because that’s all I knew.





	MW:	Yeah, did your parents feel like they got paid fairly when they would go up to him?

	MM:	I know that’s one thing, we never got paid fairly. Cause we worked in the field and you did a day’s work and maybe they give you about fifty cents cause for each person for the day. We worked it and some work we would do in the field, they’d give us maybe twenty cent or something. But we had everything we had to eat; we raised it and that wasn’t hard.

	MW:	Yeah.



	MM:	To me it wasn’t. MW:	Yeah.

	MM:	‘Cause we got whatever they said we got paid for whatever we did, but it wasn’t much.

	MW:	Yeah.



	MM:	It just was a little. But we had—Cause we didn’t have much to buy, cause we growed it.

	MW:	You mention that your dad, your mom and dad, were very strict morally with you. MM:	Yes, they was very, very strict.

	MW:	Yeah, and I was wondering what kind of…Do you know why they were strict?



Why they kept such a close tie with you to make sure they knew where you were and where you were going? What kind of worries did they have for you as you were growing up? What kind of things were they constantly saying “make sure you don’t do this” and “make sure you don’t do that.” And what kind of things did you learn from them?





	MM:	[Laughter]. Yes.



	MW:	And what kind of things did you learn from them?



	MM:	Ah, well . . . oh boy have mercy. It was always “don’t do this and don’t do that.” It was always that way. Because children didn’t grow up and got grown fast like they do now. Children didn’t grow up fast real… thirteen, fourteen years old and all that kind of stuff. But that’s how because if you got out of line and got to where they couldn’t rule you, they sent you away to live with somebody.

	MW:	They would send you to an aunt? Did you get sent to an aunt before or an uncle? MM:	No.

	MW:	Did you do anything as child to misbehave or? MM:	No. I can’t remember. I can’t remember.

	MW:	What kind of morals did they teach you that has stuck with you throughout your life to always abide and always to follow up? What kind of things did you learn before they died?

	MM:	Well I… I’m kind of puzzled here because children back then didn’t disobey their parents like they do now. I can say that much. They was careful of what they did because you knew if you did something. A family didn’t raise their children just by themselves. Everybody helped. If you did something, and my momma didn’t see me, by the time I got home she knew… and it took more than one parent to raise children. We weren’t like now. I don’t know how to even say this, but one thing: If you had children and I had children, and if my child was unruly, he couldn’t associate with your child. And it takes more than one family to raise your children, but now I don’t want you to touch my child cause I’ll go to school and





say I want the teacher. And back then if you did anything that you shouldn’t have did, then by the time if she didn’t know it that, she’d sure know it the next couple of days. And then you would get chastised again. But people don’t do that now. I know that I can know for sure—I don’t know how to say it. For sure, children was good children long and then.

	MW:	What kind of things did you learn when you grew up? What kind of morals and beliefs were you brought up on? Instead of just the basics of “stay out of trouble, make sure you don’t do this, make sure you don’t do that.” What kind of things did your parents or your community taught you about how to live a good moral life or how to understand certain society factors? Or anything you learned in South Carolina before you moved?

	MM:	I can’t remember a thing that I—the best I knew how to do it. Because children stayed children, all I can say, for a long time before they got out on their own. Because their parents teach you how to carry yourself through your life, and if you disobeyed that then you’d get punished for it by your parents.

	MW:	You mentioned your siblings and how you were the youngest.



	MM:	No, I wasn’t the youngest. There was ten of us and I was the fourth child. MW:	There was ten of you?

	MM:	There was ten but there are two of us living, me and my youngest brother. The last one. I’m not the oldest. I’m the fourth child. It looked like I was depended on because my oldest sister, we all were good, but she had her own way of doing what she wanted to do. She was the one that spoke out, and she didn’t want to do a thing. She didn’t want to whatever and she did it anyway. That’s why I





couldn’t do that because—that’s why I said—did I tell you I used to thought my momma—I used to thought they didn’t like me. I ever tell you that?

	MW:	No, but why’d you feel like that?



	MM:	I never said nothing about it till after we got to Florida. And I was down here just about a year, and I mentioned it to my momma, but my dad died before we came to Florida. I mentioned it to my mom one day. I don’t know why I wanted to do it, because I was afraid to mention it. And I didn’t, so one day I had come in from work and she was on the porch and I went by there that evening before I came home. And I sat at the edge of the porch and we were just sitting there. And it hit me again and I said, “Mom, I wanna ask you and I’ve been wanting to ask you for a long time.” And she said, “Well what is it?” I said, “I’ve been wanting to ask you something, but I didn’t because I was afraid.” She asked why, and I told her why. And she’s wanting to know, “Why you thought that? No, that wasn’t it.” And I said, “Well that’s what I thought the way I was treated from the older ones, older than I was, and I was not knowing.” And she told me, “No, I never know. You should of been mention that to me a long time ago. No it’s not that.” And I said, “Well I sure been thinking it for a long time ever since I was child coming up.” And she said, “No, it wasn’t that. We knew we could depend on you. To do what you was asked to do and you didn’t grumble about it. And if we sent you to the store, you didn’t go around to see your other friends. You would go to the store and come back.” She said my oldest sister, she’d have to go all around the whole friends before she come back home. And I said, “Well I thought that.” She said, “Well no, it’s not that, we knowed we could depend on you to do what we asked





you to do. Send you to go, you’d go and come back or whatever. And that’s why we would always send you, because we knew that you would go and do what we asked you and come on back home.” But my older sister, she’d have to go around see her friend girls before she.

	MW:	What kind of relationship did you have with your siblings as you grew up?



	MM:	Oh, well, there was ten head of us and we’ve never had an argument, cause we wasn’t allowed to—we weren’t allowed to tell one another you’re telling a story. We could say you’re telling something untrue. But like children “you’re lying or you do that”. No, we couldn’t. We weren’t allowed to call each other a story. You could say you’re telling something untrue if they got to talking. We was raised very strict. From doing, and going.

	MW:	Were you guys close? Did you guys hang out a lot together?



	MM:	We all was together. Ain’t but two of us, and we still are. That’s all I got.



	MW:	What kind of things would you do with your brothers and sisters as you grew up?



What kind of hobbies or what kind of play would you do with your brothers and sisters?

	MM:	Oh we had a lot of old school plays. We had one story we used to play at night with my mom. She would always play, but daddy wouldn’t play. My daddy, everybody I knew looked up to him because he was an older man. All of us, we just got a long good, and we never had no argument. We never had a fight.

When we would argue we had nothing to hide behind my daddy’s back because he wouldn’t allow it. We wouldn’t each call each other, “Oh you’re telling a story, you aren’t telling the truth.” You can say you’re telling something untrue, if one





was telling something. But calling each other a story or a liar. Oh, boy, boy, boy. Some words I learned after I came to Florida, I had never heard before. And it was grown people’s boys, but I never heard the word sex. I never heard my daddy telling momma “you lying” or “you’re telling a story.” I never heard that. I had a very strict family but they was good from what we learnt and what we knew.

	MW:	So when you were growing up and what would you or your brothers and sisters do for fun? What kind of activities would you do?

	MM:	Oh, we had our own plays. My mom used to play with us at night telling different, working different—oh we had a lot of old time plays. My mom would get on the floor with us at night after she done taught us of a lesson for the next day if we was got to do school. We didn’t get to go to school every day and regular like it is now. If there was something to do in the field, we had to stay home and do that. Maybe go to school the next day.

	MW:	So your mom would spend time with you doing school work with you?



	MM:	Yeah, well my momma, she could read and write very well cause she, long in those days—well I know they’d go to school if a teacher was missing or something like that. They would put a higher student there to teach in that teacher place. But they don’t do that now. They used to do that. Because if the teacher was ill and couldn’t come to school or whatever, he’d take the highest student to take their place for that day. So my momma, she used to tell us she was good at that when she was going to school. The teacher didn’t show up, why they would all grab her for that. But what we was learning, it wasn’t at that time.





So would always help us with the lesson and we’d play a game plays, we’d play ball together, we played basketball. No it wasn’t basketball. It was… um—oh well. And we’d make our own balls to play and hit any old stick. We didn’t have no bat. And my momma used to play with us. And we used to run, and we’d run and we was going to get out or whatever you call it. We made our own balls out of—Used to get bags of this big cord and we’d make our own ball, make our own bat. You just get a piece of ball big enough to hold it and you bat. We’d run and we called it “keep from getting out.” You’re running, you’re catching the ball. And we would run and we couldn’t get to the base, we would run all around the house to keep the other guy from catching us with the ball. [Inaudible 19:22-19:24].

	MW:	So you mostly played your games at home together?



MLM: We would play games at home with my momma. My daddy never would play with us, but my mom would. She’d always take that time. She’d play ball with us, and we had game we called it “limber lock” and all like that. We had a lot of old home games.

	MW:	Did you play with the neighborhood kids too? Or was it just you and your family? MM:	No, unless it was at school.

	MW:	So you only had interactions with other kids while at school? Or would you go out and play with the other kids sometimes?

	MM:	Well now, can I tell you a joke? Well, it ain’t no joke, but I really joke something about myself. When I was a child coming up, and my brother was talking about it yesterday. He mention it, but he don’t remember. He hear us talk about it so much that he think he remember. That’s what I tell him. When I was child coming





up, oh here I go, telling all my secret. When I was child coming up, I used to couldn’t talked and I remember that well.

	MW:	You couldn’t talk?



	MM:	I stuttered. What you call it like this? MW:	Stuttered? I do too.

	MM:	I couldn’t say, “Hi.” I’d always see somebody and I would do that. And a guy at school used to tease me about it, so I never been in a fight in my life going to school. And I couldn’t talk, I stumbled so bad. They didn’t try to do nothing about it. Maybe couldn’t have. But when I got married, my momma married for me. I couldn’t talk. She went and she’d answer the questions. I remember that. And children used to tease me about it in school just to hear me try to talk. And didn’t like it, but I never fought nobody about it. I’d always dismiss it and leave to come home. I’d always try to be the first one out the door because the children used to tease me about it. I used to tell mom about it. And momma say, “don’t pay no attention, don’t pay no attention.” And she didn’t try to do nothing about, maybe she thought she couldn’t. I don’t know. I just stopped that when… I’m gonna say about twenty years ago. I stammered so bad I couldn’t say “good morning.” I’d always speak to people. My teachers at school tried to break me out of it but they couldn’t do nothing about it. So I don’t know what happened. So that’s why I used to stand back and I think my mom felt like they could depend on me or something. She told me that but I don’t know. And I used to didn’t like it, but I didn’t never fight nobody about it. And the children at school used to pick at me about it, tried to make me talk or say something. I used to didn’t like children,





because they would tease me about it, laugh at me about it, and I couldn’t do nothing about it. But now they say I talk too much. [Laughter]. So anyway, that’s why my momma said they could depend on me because I wouldn’t with other children or look for no cotton nickels. I couldn’t speak. I couldn’t say “good morning.” I’d redo that when I speak to somebody. I could talk and say some things, but I used to stammer so bad. I don’t know how I got out of it. I didn’t get out of it in about maybe twenty years ago, or thirty maybe, somewhere like that.

	MW:	Yeah, I understand. I stammer myself.



	MM:	Oh no, really? When at the school, I used to have to do all my talking and trying to write on they had a board on the wall. We used to call them blackboards. I don’t know what they call them now. I used to have to write most of my lesson on the board, cause I couldn’t explain it. I couldn’t….

	MW:	You couldn’t pronounce it.



	MM:	But they tell me now I talk too much. And I don’t know what happened. After I came to Florida, I got this job working in a sandwich shop. And I think the world of those people and I think they do me too. They called me “boss-tess.” And I wish we had a sandwich shop. Now I got a job there, first job I got I came to Florida.

	MW:	You mentioned that your first job was working for a family. But your first job was a sandwich shop?

	MM:	Yeah, I had Movin after I left the sandwich shop, then I went to taking care, after I left there I went to Shands. And I retired from Shands.





	MW:	You mentioned the sandwich shop. Where was it located? And what would you do there when you first worked there?

	MM:	Well, I made sandwiches. First I started working at the house. They open up a sandwich shop and I did that too. I did it all.

	MW:	What kind of customers would come to sandwich shop?



	MM:	Oh, they would make them take out. We would go to work like five o’clock in the morning to have them ready at least by eight o’clock. And they would deliver them and after that I would just stay on the day and do the work. All the work. I did it, and I worked with them for a long time. Until I went to Shands.

	MW:	You mentioned that you also worked for a family and you took care of their children and you did their house work.

	MM:	Well that’s the same people I’m talking about now.



	MW:	The sandwich shop? The sandwich shop was with them?



	MM:	Yeah, I worked with them for twenty something odd years before I left and went to Shands. They talked about closing it down because they getting tired of it.

Now when I was looking for a job at Shands, I wasn’t looking for a job. I had never been there; I was just going around that day and I stopped. And the lady asked me. So I worked at nights, and I got a job there and I worked there until I retired.

	MW:	How did you get the job at Shands?



	MM:	See they had to close down the sandwich shop, because she had to stop and take care of her mom. I was about to get payed my gas bill that morning, that day, and I was way out there on Archer Road beyond Shands. And I got into my





car and went out there. And I said “I never been there and I’m going to stop there and come back by.” Just like that. I went on to pay my bill, and went followed up the road. And I came back and I said, “I’m going to stop. I have never been here.” And I stopped and went in, and one of the supervisors was standing there out in the lobby at Shands. And I was just looking and she said, “Can I help you?” I said, “No, I’m just looking. I just stopped to look.” And she said, “Well if you’re looking for work, do you think you would like to have a job here?” I said, “I don’t know, I’m just looking.” So she kept talking to me she wanted to show me around in Shands and I went with her. And she said, “If you ain’t working, if you want to get a job, now is a good time to get it.” I said, “I ain’t looking for no job now.” But anyway, I knew the girl and she kept calling me. And I said, “I ain’t looking for a job yet.” So she said, “Well, we got some openings.” And she talked me into it and I said, “Okay.” And she put me on the roll and they called me if I wanted the job and I worked there till I retired.

	MW:	What kind of position were you working?



	MM:	I was working in housekeeping. I worked there in the housekeeping department. I worked there most off and on backs and files.

	MW:	You were doing the house keeping of the hospital rooms? MM:	Yes. At Shands.

	MW:	How did you liked that job?



	MM:	Well, I didn’t mind it but I liked it. I guess working there for awhile but then I end up working in for recovery before I retired. I was working in recovery for about six years I think before retired.





	MW:	Before you retired, six years before you were doing? MM:	I said I worked in the recovery for about six years.

	MW:	Recover?



	MM:	Yeah, just messing around cleaning, keeping things in order, getting things, bringing them in or whatever. So I got tired of that, and that’s when I retired. I haven’t worked there for—I was sixty-five years old. I had done working, and I mean, twenty-eight years in all and I thought it was time to quit after I got that age and I just retired.

	MW:	So overall you enjoyed your job there? MM:	I did. I just got tired.

	MW:	I wanted to also talk about.



	MM:	Anything you want to ask me just say it, because my mind don’t go way out there.

	MW:	I was wondering when you lived in South Carolina, did you and your family attend church?

	MM:	Oh yes, yes. And I miss it now because I can’t get to go every Sunday. My son was home and went to the VA for his checkup and my pastor was there, Reverend Thomas A. Wright. He retired now, got another pastor, but still he is it. And he was talking about me, and he saw my son. And when he came home he said, “Mommy, you can’t guess who I saw today.” I said, “No.” “I saw Reverend Thomas A. Wright.” And I said, “You did?” “Yeah.” He said, “Momma, he talked about you the whole time. About what kind of person you is, how he can call you when they built this new church out here on the 8th Avenue across the Waldo





Road. Big church. This was our church, but we didn’t have no parking place, we had to go. And he said, “He talked about you the whole time I was sitting there. Telling me what kind of women you was.” And I said, “Well thank him.”

	MW:	How long have you known your preacher for? MM:	Preacher?

	MW:	I mean, your pastor. How long have you known him? MM:	He was with us forty-four years.

	MW:	Forty-four years?



	MM:	Yes ma’am. He just retired last year, Reverend Thomas A. Wright.



	MW:	Do you remember when you first moved in here and you met him, what attracted you to his church?

	MM:	His family, he didn’t just come to preach. He came there and he started to work on the church because the church was going down. I didn’t help build the church, but I helped there because I helped carry it in what I could carry. A big brick church. We had to move from there because it grew so big we didn’t have nowhere to park. And I don’t know that church spot was picked, but that’s where it was. And it got so big so it had nowhere to park. So we went back east on 8th Avenue across the Waldo Road right back up in a big church.

	MW:	So when the church moved and you followed it to the new place, what kind of activities would you guys do as a community?

	MM:	I was an usher, I was the head usher. I enjoyed it. I just loved it. I was one of the head ushers of my church. We had two or three groups and I was the second.





And number one usher boy and number two usher boy and number three, down to the children. It was good.

	MW:	Did your church do any outside activities when you first attended there? MM:	Yes.

	MW:	What kind of activities would you do?



	MM:	They would go to the prisons. They would go out to the state prison, to Starks. They would go out there, I think it was once every two weeks. We would go out there and have service with them.

	MW:	With the prisoners?



	MM:	The prisoners, yes. And every year during the holiday time, we would fix up baskets for the elderly. We would do this and do that. We would fix up baskets to take to the prisoners. And we would take up our collection to send to the soldiers. We did a lot of different little things for them. And we would send them a basket if we know the birthdays of the prisoners, if we knew. We fixed up baskets for them and send them. We did a lot for them. Some things like soap and papers for letters and writing. We would send them, and they all order different things. We would start that from year to year to get it ready.

	MW:	So you just mentioned that you would help the soldiers out, by soldiers do you mean the soldiers from World War II or from the Vietnam War? What war did your church support?

	MM:	We would say the men in Service. I don’t where they were stationed. I don’t know.

	MW:	So just in general, not just during a specific time?





	MM:	We would do that every year and I know they’re doing it now, but nobody yet came by and asked me for anything. We would send them like soap, different little gifts and things like that, that we knew they could use. We would send them most anything they can use, we didn’t send them no clothing or nothing like that. Like little gifts. It wouldn’t be a little bit money or check, just any little thing that they think they would like. I know they getting it ready now and I’m not there, maybe somebody come around.

	MW:	You mentioned from the previous interview that you had a group of girlfriends that would hang out with and that you took a trip to Miami and I believe the other trip was to Philadelphia. Can you tell me more about your friends?

	MM:	Yeah, well I don’t have much friends now; I just have family. I don’t have a lot of friends.

	MW:	But you mentioned the girls that you would travel with.



	MM:	Yeah. We went to Miami a couple of times to the ball game, basketball—no, not basketball; football. That’s been a couple of years back. And I’ve been to Hawaii. My son took me to Hawaii. He got a trip from the Kennedy Space, he worked down there and they gave him for two. Instead of taking his girlfriend, he took me.

	MW:	When was that?



	MM:	That’s been a good while, that’s a good while before I stopped work. That was in the year of the [19]80’s, something like that. We stayed over there five days and I enjoyed that. I like fun, but I don’t go out no ways just to be going. Like out on Saturday nights and the weekends, I don’t do that.





	MW:	Did you do any hobbies or activities when you were younger? When you first moved here to Gainesville, did you have any things that you would do on a regular basis? Like go to theater or go to this place or that place with somebody?

	MM:	I never went to the shows, movies. I don’t go to those. I went when my son was a child. But after he got grown enough to go by himself, I don’t go anymore.

	MW:	Did you have any hobbies or have any hobbies now that you do?



	MM:	No, I’m not that kind of person. I do it if you ask me to help to do something like that. But just to take up something on my own, I used to go to the nursing home. I would always buy me a bag of mint—what do you call them? I would always take it with me or something like that. I’d buy bananas. I’d always take something with me. Every time I would go and I walk in the door, they would ask for the candy. I did things like that. I’d go visit the sick and do their housework, do their washing. That’s after I retired. I didn’t do that when I was—I did that and I’d always carry them something. When I was there, I’d go around and ask them what they would like for me to bring them the next time I come. They would always name candy or they’d want me to cook something and bring them. But I’d always check before I do that. And some of them would say, “It’s okay. Okay, you can bring it.” Or something like that. I loved that. I loved to do that.

	MW:	So you did that kind of community work after you retired? MM:	Yes, after I retired.

	MW:	What kind of things did you do before you retired? What kind of things did you do in your twenties and thirties?

	MM:	What twenties and thirties? My age? I don’t know. [Laughter].





	MW:	In your twenties and thirties. Do you remember what kind of things you would do for fun?

	MM:	Well I’m not that fun kind. I’d find something else like I’d like to do instead. Or stay home or whatever. But I think I was—see, I’m not a talker, that’s why I didn’t have… Just like I used to tell my son, “Momma, why don’t you go out sometime?” I says, “Why?” I said, “Well I don’t like going out because I don’t have nobody I can just talk to.” I don’t drink. I don’t smoke. And a lot of things I just don’t do.

And I just don’t sit down and talk to somebody. But if you can’t sit down and talk—you can’t sit down and do nothing with your friends, you’ll be talking about somebody. And I used to tell them, “Look, y’all, this isn’t going to work.” And I would have to go in the locker room or something when they’re around. I haven’t heard them say, “Hey, hey here come Ms. Myrick. Here come Ms. Myrick” Because whatever they were talking about, they changed the topic. I could hear them before I got there. Some of them saw me. “Here come Ms. Myrick. Hey, hey, here come Ms. Myrick out here.” And they’d be talking; you can’t talk about somebody unless you talking about somebody. And I don’t talk about people.

And I used to tell, “Just like y’all talk about whoever you’re talking about, you remember I bet you somebody out there talking about you the same way.” I said, “That’s not nice.”

	MW:	Did that happen while you were working?



MM: On the job, yes. Maybe some two or three girls standing up in the hall or in the locker room. And I’d go in there and those two will not open the door. “Hey, here Ms. Myrick right here.”





	MW:	So was this just because you were quiet, you didn’t have a lot of social— MM:	Just because I was quiet I guess.

	MW:	So you didn’t have a lot of social interaction to want to go out and do things in your twenties.

	MM:	I don’t have a friend that I can go out and say, “Hey, let’s go out to dinner today.” I don’t know why. My son always asked me about it. Because I’m not a talker just like I tell you long years ago. I just couldn’t talk; I’m not a talker. And I don’t love to hear somebody always back-biting somebody else, you know? They used to tell the other group, “Here Ms. Myrick come.” And I’d pretend I didn’t hear them.

	MW:	So you mention your son a couple of times. I want to know more about him. Did you raise him here in Gainesville?

	MM:	Well when I came to Gainesville, he was about three years old. MW:	So he was mostly raised in Gainesville?

	MM:	Yeah. He doesn’t remember he stayed in South Carolina. He is sixty something years old now.

	MW:	Do you remember what schools he went to when he was growing up in Gainesville?

	MM:	Right here? MW:	Yes.

	MM:	He went to—Lord have mercy! I think he went to about every one. I can say that.



Sure enough, he went to the school up here on University Avenue as you’re going out, it’s on the left. What that school name? I forgot what it is. He went to





GHS, he went to Lincoln, and he graduated in 1955, my son, from Lincoln High School.

	MW:	Lincoln? So that was before the school was integrated? Because Lincoln shut down.

	MM:	Yeah, that was before. He was going to Lincoln, the all-Negro school, Black school. That’s where he graduated from; he never went to a mixed school because he graduated before that.

	MW:	How did he like going to school?



	MM:	He liked it, and he graduated. I tried to get him to go to college, and long and then you could work and help pay your way in college. And he wouldn’t that, he didn’t want to go, so he went to the Navy instead and stayed there for five years after 1955. He went in [19]55 and he graduated from high school and he went into the service and stayed five years. I could ring his neck for it now, because he could’ve done better than that. Because he was following a friend and that, oh, well. He went in service but he got out, he got a job. And looking for a job, and the Cape had just opened. Cape Kennedy, where they make the missiles and all that stuff. South from Orlando. He went down there, he got a job, and he worked there till he retired. So he did very well. He bought a home, so he did good.

	MW:	Did you raise him as strict as your parents did? MM:	I tried to. [Laughter]

	MW:	What kind of things were you were always telling him?



	MM:	I would never let him forget what I’ve told him before. And I got him to the top.



That’s where when I went when I wasn’t home last year. I went and stayed with





him. And that’s his little girl and he got married. And he’s doing well. He was in Philadelphia. I went up there and stayed a while. And he’s staying in a place called Dover, Dover somewhere out from Philly. He moved out of the city and moved out in the country. Bought him a house and had it built. And he’s out there now; this is his little girl. He’s doing great. And he was home—one of his school friends died and he was home last Wednesday. They had the funeral this past Saturday. And he came, drove down, for the funeral and went right back. He’s doing good. That’s my family up there. That’s me with the light suit on, and that’s my brother standing over me. He’s Saul. And the other one is Lucius. He died about three ago. And the little one with shades on, that’s Charlie, that’s my nurse. Held my coat and everything. And that’s my mom’s picture right there. All them other ones up there is her children and grandchildren.

	MW:	Did you teach your son the same lessons that your—?



	MM:	I tried to and I used to see my pastor. And I raised that boy, the top, his baby.



He was three months old when I got him. And I raised him.



	MW:	Where’d he come from? You said, “You got him.” Did you adopt him?



	MM:	Yeah, he was my son’s son. He was going with this girl and she got pregnant. And then she had the baby and she did something that put her in prison, so I raised him. There was nobody. He was just three months. I had to get him in three months or else they’d put him up for adoption. And I took him. And I had four. He had two twins and that one and another one. And I raised them. And he laugh about it now. It was hard, what I did. He said he thought I was the meanest





grandmamma he ever saw. I said, “No, I wasn’t mean. I just was trying to keep you out of government.”

	MW:	What kind of things would you always tell him? What were always saying to him that had to do with his moral ability or if he did something wrong? What was something always reinstated with him that he needs to know and he needs to learn? Did you say, well, “You need to make good grades” or “You need to do this.”

	MM:	Yeah, yeah, I did. He told me after he graduated, he said, “Momma, I thought sure I wasn’t going to graduate, so you kept me so nervous when I was going to school.” I said, “Why are you telling me?” He said, “You just laid on me and laid on me and laid on me.” He said, “I was scared. I didn’t know whether I was going to pass. I know if I didn’t pass you’d kill me.” We laugh about it now. I said, “No, I just meant business.” I was working too hard by myself. My husband was there. He died in, [19]83 I think it was.

	MW:	So did you want him to get an education because you didn’t get an education? MM:	Maybe so. Maybe so. But he made it. And he tell me now, he laugh at me now.

Every time he come home, he’d tell his friends, “Lord, doesn’t mess with her. Woman goes mad and she’ll kill you.” [Laughter]. But I think I was good. Right now he says, “Momma, I appreciate every minute of it. Because if you hadn’t have tighten up on me, I might have went the other way too.” But that’s my grandson, that’s my son’s son up there.

	MW:	What age was your son when his son was born?





	MM:	Oh lord… My son is seventy something years. He was about back then—Truth about it, I don’t rightly know. But he was grown. Now he has going with a girl at the time, my son. His picture is up on that wall up there. And she got pregnant and she had twins. And that didn’t do. She went back and got him, and I could have—She didn’t want him, and she told me I could have him. And I said, “Really?” And she said, “Yes.” And I took him when he was three months old, and I raised him from that. So I am satisfied with him. They didn’t give me no problem. I raised four children, his children. Two twins and two extra boys.

	MW:	You mentioned that when you were born you were brought in by a midwife. MM:	Yes ma’am.

	MW:	I was wondering when you were growing up and when you got to Gainesville, what kind of health care did you receive as a child? Was it just a neighborhood doctor?

	MM:	There was no doctor; midwives is what you would call them long in those days.



	MW:	Did you guys have your own doctors that would come in if you and your brothers and sisters would get sick?

	MM:	No, they might, no, because there was nothing around. We lived out in the country and my momma didn’t have any doctor with her children. Her mother’s sister was a midwife, and she would always come. I am saying what I think, because we didn’t see any of this. Honest to the lord, do you want me to tell you the truth?

	MW:	Yes.



	MM:	I didn’t used to know where babies come from and I was a grown woman.





	MW:	What did your mom and dad do when one of you would get sick? MM:	When I get sick?

	MW:	Yes, what would you mom and dad do when you or the other children got sick?



	MM:	[Inaudible: 52:15]. I guess, I don’t remember nothing about no doctor. I know what you’re talking about, but I don’t know.

	MW:	Did they try to cure you themselves? What kind of things did they use?



	MM:	If that’s what you call it. My momma would go out in the woods. I’m not lying, God knows I’m here. Lord you hear me. My momma would go out in the woods, in there, wherever. And she’d have a sack, a bag. And she’d carry her things or whatever. And she used to go out in the woods and come back with a bag of stuff. And my momma would boil it and jar it up in jars. And save it. She used to call it “tea,” whatever it was. I never seen a doctor in my life.

	MW:	So those teas were your cold medicines?



	MM:	And she would buy like things from the store, like you call it Epsom salts. She would buy all kind of stuff. Liniment and turpentine. And all that kind of stuff. She kept it all the time. I never gone to a doctor in my life till I came to Florida. None of us.

	MW:	So her knowledge about the teas and those remedies, she just knew about? MM:	I guess.

	MW:	Do you know where she learned that from?



	MM:	I don’t know. From her parents, I guess, from way back then when she was a child I guess.

	MW:	Did she speak about her parents a lot?





	MM:	Not much. I never hear my daddy talk about his mom. I knew my mamma’s mother because I used to live with her when it wasn’t school time and wasn’t no work in the field. She’d want me to come and stay with her and help her. I used to do that a lot.

	MW:	You would help your grandmother? MM:	Yeah.

	MW:	What kind of things would you do with her?



	MM:	Cleaned the house, washing. People used to iron then. They don’t iron now, do they?

	MW:	I don’t think so.



	MM:	You don’t know what an iron is? [Laughter]. MW:	No, I do. My mother irons my clothes.

	MM:	Help cleaning the house. Help do the cooking and all like that. I used to go out and I was the one that did all these things. She wanted me to come with her.

	MW:	Did your grandmother share anything with you about herself? MM:	They didn’t have nothing to share.

	MW:	No? She didn’t tell you about like how she grew up? MM:	If she did, I can’t remember.

	MW:	What was health care like when you got down to Gainesville? When your son or his son got sick, what kind health care… Since your mother was your health care system in South Carolina, what kind of health care system did you have here in Gainesville?





	MM:	My momma lived here before I was. She was here before I was and she would just keep on doing the same thing. But after she got here for a while, we knewed about a doctor. But didn’t ever have no doctors or attendants. [Phone rings].

	MW:	Do you want to pick that up? I can stop it. Okay. MM:	So that was all of my life.

	MW:	If you had to tell me what life lessons you’ve learned. MM:	Anything you want to know, just ask me and I can fill it in.

	MW:	What kind of lessons have you learned from growing up? You’ve lived a long ninety-four years and I want to know what morals and lessons you’ve learned from not just the last couple of years, but all of your life. Something that you’ve always abided by and always believed in.

	MM:	Oh boy, the truth about it. We didn’t have no life of our own. We lived by my momma and my daddy. Whatever they say do or go or don’t or do. I think it was good. I think my life was good. I didn’t know what things was about, but we lived by their life. What they said do or don’t, that was it.

	MW:	When you grew up and you were learning about—I mean, as I’m growing up, I’m learning different things about myself and what I should do that is morally right to me. What are some things that you’ve learned throughout your lifetime that you feel that is important to share with other people or people from my generation?

What kind of life lessons have you learned through out all these years of wisdom that you can pass down?

	MM:	I’m trying to think. Truth about it, I don’t think when we was children, we didn’t have a life of our own. Why I said that, we lived by what we were told to do and





what we was told not to do. And what to do and when, and how to carry our lives, to try to be somebody. My daddy didn’t talk much; my momma did most of the talking. I can’t—. I know it’s harder after we get grown and get out from under them, trying to be our own person. Trying to do what we thought was right, and once we left them, I think we all did that. And I don’t know.

	MW:	What did you find that was right? What kind of things?



	MM:	Once you get grown and look out for your own life because they be through taking care of us when we got grown or thought we were grown at least. Not until then that we was allowed to do anything but do what they say do.

	MW:	What kind of life lessons did you learn after you left your house and started to live your own life?

	MM:	Well it wasn’t easy. It is not easy. None of us left home until we got grown and got out. None of us. Never. Never had no problems with that. Not now. And a lot of people can’t see how that happened. But I guess that’s listening to what your parents tried to teach you while they have you.

	MW:	Do you remember the specific things that they would teach you of how to stay out of trouble?

	MM:	Probably yeah, we did that.



	MW:	What rules did they said you had to abide by to stay out of trouble?



	MM:	Well, things you can do to stay out of trouble. Just don’t do the things—you have to make up your own mind. You can’t live by what you see somebody else do.

You can’t live by that. You have to make your own, make your own—.



	MW:	Decisions?





	MM:	Yes. Decisions. What to do and what not to do. And another thing they used to tell us, “Everybody you think your friend, is not your friend.” Oh they’ll laugh and talk with you, all the time they now. Everybody you think your friend, is not your friend. That’s it. I guess it’s been like this all the time. And that’s one thing we didn’t do. They didn’t allow us to go out from house to house and see the other children. My daddy had older children, older than my momma, because his wife died. They said that they fell in love. My momma and daddy, they was good friends and that’s how they got together. They taught us to be ourselves and be as truthful as you can. That’s one thing; I try to be as truthful as I can. And I don’t try to make something sound like it’s true when it is not. And that’s how a lot of us get in trouble, listening to our friends. I never heard of so much of trouble in my life as it is now.

	MW:	Well what you friends do to get into trouble?



	MM:	Can I say something? I didn’t have them. I didn’t have those kinds of friends. I don’t have—my son used to tell me after he got grown, “Momma, why don’t you go out sometime and get your friends and go out?” I said, “I have no friends, not them kind of friends.”

	MW:	What kind of trouble did you see that you knew that was wrong?



	MM:	You could go out there and—children not obeying their parents, that’s wrong.



Parents might not be see who they will all the time the same thing. But I say when somebody older than you are, and been here longer than you are, when they tell you something and you don’t listen to it, I think that’s when you get in





trouble. Just like it is now. I’ve never heard so much trouble going on in my life as it is now. Every time you pick up the paper, something happen. Some children.

MW: What’s the difference between the trouble that you saw as you were growing up compared to the trouble that you see now? What’s that difference you think?

MM: Honest, I never heard about killing. I’ve never heard all this about stealing. I’ve never heard of—in yesterday paper, two mens went into a woman’s house and tied her up and stole from her. You didn’t hear all of that.

MW:  That wasn’t in your community when you were growing up?



	MM:	No, no, no. The only thing I knew when I grew up, I knowed about moonshine. I knew people who would get it. But now there is so much stuff going on now. That moonshine been around and I used to hear that. But all of us liked beer; I never heard talk of beer when I was a child. I never heard those things. I didn’t know about drugs. I never heard of all of that. I think things right now is what about so much murdering, stealing, and robbing. Good lord.

	MW:	Do you think the community in Gainesville when you first moved here is different from it is now?

	MM:	It’s different than it is right now. When I first moved in here, I didn’t hear talk all this.

	MW:	What was the community like in Gainesville when you first moved here?



MM: When I first moved here, it was a lot of working going on. A lot of jobs. You didn’t find people sitting around like they doing now. You didn’t find them walking in the street like you do now.

MW:  There was more work ethic in the people than there is now?





	MM:	I don’t know whether it was more work out there or it was more people out there doing the work. They tell you in a minute, “I ain’t working for that.” I heard some boy, a guy, tell a lady that right up town in the courthouse. She stopped by and the boys was—I think I’ve mentioned this before when you were here—and that hurt me. And she stopped looking for somebody to do a day’s work. She was out of her car and they were sitting on the courthouse steps on the back over on that far side. I walked to the post office that morning. And she drove up in a car and stopped in the street and asked, “Is anybody sitting there would like to do a day’s work?” And two of them jumped up and went to the car from the old courthouse. And first thing they asked her was, “What you paying?” And when she was telling them, “Man, I ain’t working for that.” And went back and sat on the steps. Looking for work and somebody come by and offers for them to work and they ain’t got nothing and they ain’t working and they telling her they not working for that. Now does that woman work?

	MW:	Excuse me?



	MM:	Do you want to work? If I want to work, if you ain’t giving me but fifty cents, I’d work ten cents an hour. I have done it in my life. I know I have did it. Twenty-five cents. You work a half a day. I was working in the field now and getting it ready. And you don’t want to work?

	MW:	So you found it confusing? MM:	That hurts me.





	MW:	Yeah, because you grew up learning about a day’s work in the crops and for someone not wanting work in the city in Gainesville. Why is that so upsetting to you?

	MM:	Right now if I was able to work right now, and somebody come and offer me to work, I wouldn’t think of asking what are you going to pay me. I ain’t never asked nobody that. Just ask me to work, I work. Whatever they decide they want to give me, that’s what they will give me. And they ain’t got nothing. Stealing, and killing, and robbing, and they ain’t got nothing and don’t want to work?

	MW:	Yeah. I understand.



	MM:	That hurts me. I don’t mind working. I don’t. I wish I was able to work now. I do.



Do something.



	MW:	Well I got one more question. You mentioned how the first car you bought was for your son. And I wanted to know how you felt when you first bought that car. It must have been a huge deal for you to one, come up with the money for it, two, to even just give the first car you owned to your son. How did you feel?

	MM:	Well long and then I think he wanted a car because his friend had a car. I didn’t like that. I wasn’t able to buy him a car. I wouldn’t know about it myself. My husband was gone by that time. Most of my life, since we got married, he wasn’t able to work, so he died. It was just me and him. He wanted a car, but he wanted a car for the wrong thing. He wanted the car cause his friend had a car. He didn’t—And then I find out the guy he met as a friend, he bought him an Oldsmobile. That guy had his mom and his dad. And he wanted him a car too.

And he didn’t want nothing but an Oldsmobile.





	MW:	So did you wait for him to have a different reason why he wanted to a car? MM:	No, no he stopped mentioning the car after I told him I wasn’t buying no

Oldsmobile. He stopped mentioning it. He stopped talking about it at all.



	MW:	You mentioned you did get him one for graduation.



	MM:	So one day he was going to school and it was just about to get ready to close, in June I think it was. And his old Lincoln High School—you know where the old Lincoln High School at? Back over here, big old red brick not far from—that was the school. And that’s where they had the school clothes and everything. They used to have everything there, but now they’ve got to go [inaudible: 1:10:23] to do everything. So I was coming from work that week, walking from work, coming down. And I said, “I’m going to stop by and look at some cars.” I told him I wouldn’t buy him no car until he graduated. And he was graduating, but still I wasn’t talking about a car. I stopped by there and walked by there and I was looking at the cars. And they had a little Plymouth, nice looking little [19]50 Plymouth. It was real good, beautiful body, dark and red. Anyway, I stopped there and I was talking to the man. And he kept bringing it down until he say, “It’s a nice car.” And it was. Never had no problems. And I said, “I’ll take it, I’ll take it.” And I put a hold on it, and I say, “Let me think about it.” And I come home and I thought about it. He graduating that day. He will be graduating. And I put a hold on it until I paid out enough to I could get it. And I paid for that little Plymouth; it was a beautiful little car. I wasn’t driving then. I couldn’t drive. I said, “Well, he graduating, and maybe by the time he graduated I would have enough on it that I can bring it home.” So when he graduated, I got my friend, my friend Guy, I





called him and told him I wanted to see and I told him what had happened and what I did. And he said, “Well that boy needs a car.” And I said, “He don’t need one, he just wants one.” So I made the payment down on it and I got him to bring it home for me the day he graduated. And he went on to the schoolhouse and kept the car here. He still didn’t know I had it. And he said, “Mamma, you coming out to the schoolhouse at night?” And I said, “Yeah, I’ll be out there.” And so sure enough I went and the guy drove me out there. And he said, “Who’s going to carry you out there?” And I said, “Would you be able to drive me out to the schoolhouse at night?” And he said, “Yeah I’ll take you.” So of course he knew Cedric would want a car when he was a little boy. Not Cedric, Wymen.

	MW:	So did you feel happy even though it wasn’t a car for yourself? The first car you ever bought wasn’t for yourself. You felt happy giving it to your son?

	MM:	I never bought a car for myself. MW:	Never?

	MM:	Never.



	MW:	Why is that? Why haven’t you ever bought a car?



	MM:	I never had any money to put in it. Not the money I wanted to put in it. And I just got—. And so when I went to the schoolhouse that evening for his graduation at night, I went in and I waited. And so when he came out, he came up to me and said, “Momma, how you going home?” And I said, “I guess I have to call a cab.” And I kept walking around, and I said, “I’ll be ready in a little while.” And then when the guy came up that drove me out there and I was ready to come home,





we went to the car. “What are we going to do?” And boy was he just like, “Wow.” And I said, “Yeah, that’s your graduation present right here.”

	MW:	I bet he was very appreciative.



	MM:	Oh, he couldn’t believe it. He couldn’t believe. MW:	So you never bought a car after that?

	MM:	I never bought another car. That was in [19]55.



	MW:	So how have you gotten around all these years without a car?



	MM:	I had a car, but after that—so when I bought the car for him, as I thought he wanted, coming up in school the next year, in June or May, he wanted to go into the army. He wanted to go into the service. He had a friend boy, best buddies, and the boy went and he wanted to go too. I said, “You mean to tell me I got my money tied up in a car. And you, ‘I think I’d rather go into the Service.’” And that left me with the car. And I kept that car for how many months. I never thought about wanting to drive. And one day I had to go to work and it was stalling that morning almost. I stood in the door and I looked over and I said, “I’ve got to get to work. I’ve got to get to work.” So I took myself and I said, “I got a car sitting out there and I can’t drive it and I can’t get to work.” And I made up my mind that day that I was going to drive. I learned how to drive then and kept the car. Even when he went to the service.

	MW:	Why were you so reluctant before to learn how to drive?



	MM:	Because I was going to drive and its sitting out there and I got to go to work. Just like that and the car is sitting out there and I got to go to work and I can’t drive. I said, “I want to learn how to drive, and that car sitting right out there parked.” I





said, “I’m going to learn how to drive.” And from that day I started trying to learn how to drive. I’d get in and sit and I got the guy I’m talking about now. He asked me, “You ain’t driving that car?” I said, “I can’t drive.” He said, “Well I’m going to take time to try to learn you how to drive.” And he get off from work in the evening and he come and he carry out the moms and then we’d go out there as you’re going to Lake Cross to a big old dirt road then in the evening. And I kept that up and I tried.

	MW:	When you finally did learn how to drive, did you like it? Did you find a new sense of freedom?

	MM:	I liked it, but I didn’t drive it every day. I was riding the bus to work, and I kept on riding the bus. Because the people was paying my bus ride to come to work. And finally I learned how to drive. I said, “I’m going to learn how to drive.”

	MW:	Did you like driving better than taking the bus?



	MM:	Oh yeah, it was more convent. I could stay home and do something a little longer instead of going out there and standing there waiting on the bus. And it may be already gone if you wasn’t there on time. I’ve been right at the bus to go out to the street right up there. If I’m not standing there, it goes. It don’t wait on you.

And I’d just keep walking; I’d just walk and keep on walking to work.



	MW:	So the car gave you more of a freedom and—?



	MM:	And I learned how to drive a little [19]55 Plymouth. I bought it in [19]55 and it was good. I never had no trouble with it. I’ve been driving it from that day up to this day. And I’ve never had a wreck. I’ve bumped it a couple times, but I’ve





never had a wreck. Never had a ticket. Never had a ticket. I don’t know you got what you want, but you got what I think I knew for real.

	MW:	Yes ma’am, you did a great job. [End of interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Anupa Kotipoyina March 15, 2018 Final edit by:	 Ryan Morini, February 20, 2019