AAHP-086; Burks; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 086 Myrtle Burks

African American History Program (AAHP) Interviewed by Marna Weston on June 12, 2010 7 minutes | 7 pages





Abstract: Ms. Burks begins the interview with stating where she and her family are from. She says that her great grandfather was involved in Florida’s Rosewood incident. She tells the interviewer that her family avidly went to church and the interview concludes with Ms. Burks listing the names of her siblings.



Keywords[ African-American History; Rosewood; Joel Buchanan Archives;]



























































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 086

Interviewee: Myrtle Burks Interviewer: Marna Weston

	Date of Interview: June 12, 2010 B:	Third grade.



	W:	How did you all meet?



	B:	We are just classmates; we met in the classroom. W:	Uh-huh.

	B:	And the teachers introduced us to each other.



	W:	Mmhm. And would you please state your full name? B:	Myrtle Maceethan Burks.

	W:	Okay and when and where were you born?



	B:	I was born the 22 of June. I’ve got a birthday coming up. W:	Uh-huh.

	B:	1946.



	W:	And who were your mom and dad?



B:  George and Myrtle Maceethan— both of them are dead now. W:  Okay and who was your dad’s mother and father?

B:  Betty Almans Bonds and his name was John Allen Maceethan. I don’t know when his birthrate was but my grandma was still living. She died in 1996. My mother died in 1994.





	W:	Mmhm.



	B:	Mmhm.



	W:	Do you know anything about your dad’s mother and father?



	B:	Yeah my grandma- her father went and had that Roseburn or something in Florida.

	W:	Rosewood?



	B:	Yeah. He brought them to Sampson County. He left his wife because his wife- my grandmother’s mother- had gone off to help somebody clean house or something. Anyway he left and so he came here to Clinton and a little place called- I can’t think of it now- Bear Creek.

	W:	Okay.



	B:	Uh-huh.



	W:	Well let me make sure I understand- your daddy’s daddy came from Rosewood, Florida.

	B:	My grandmother’s daddy. W:	Your grandmother’s daddy? B:	Uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh.

	W:	Okay now how about on your momma’s side? How much do you know about her parents?





	B:	Grandma died in 1961. W:	And what was her name? B:	Ravenna Robinson.

	W:	Okay.



	B:	Uh-huh. She had got married again but she raised her children. Momma and them were- they had- even because they were black they still had a lot and grandma gave it to them. Mmhm and she was just a beautiful lady. Back then when old people did things with their lives- and not necessarily were right- but they had to, I guess. [laughter] That’s how I knew Dorothy Beclan- Ms. McKinn- because her granddaddy had four kids from my grandma from him.

	W:	Now you said when she got married again, who was she married to the first time?

	B:	Oh she wasn’t married the first time. W:	Okay.

	B:	Uh-huh.



	W:	Well how about when she did get married?



	B:	She married James R. Robinson; he’s dead now too. And he’s the only granddaddy I knew anything about.

	W:	Uh-huh.





	B:	Uh-huh.



	W:	And where was he from? B:	Rosewood, I think.

	W:	Okay.



	B:	Uh-huh.



	W:	And do you know anything about his parents? B:	Nope.

	W:	Okay.



	B:	But I know he had a brother, Uncle May. Uncle May was blind and we all went to church together at Sandy Grove Free Baptist Church in Wade. And granddaddy was the superintendent of all and all- everything [laughter] at the church and we were brought up in church. We were brought up in church and I guess that’s why I’m the way I am. Because when I got out of school I wanted to go to Philadelphia where my aunt was and my mom wouldn’t let me but I am so glad.

	W:	Why did you want to go to Philadelphia?



B:   Because it would get out of town and we thought that everybody from New York or Philadelphia, we thought that they were high-rise people. Because they came by here in such beautiful cars and didn’t know they rented them. [Laughter]





	W:	Well I’m going to let you actually pose for one of them. I hear you taking them and catching fun at yourself. You have a very pretty smile, it’s all that.

	B:	Thank you. [Laughter]



	W:	That’s what I was looking for. [Laughter] B:	Alright.

	W:	Now I caught you crazy a couple times. B:	[Laughter]

	W:	I won’t use those.



	B:	Alright don’t you dare.



	W:	I won’t. So do you have brothers and sisters?



	B:	Yeah I have a- it was ten of us and I’m the oldest girl. My mother adopted my oldest brother because she didn’t think she could have kids and it was two years after she adopted him that I was born and so she spit out eight more. [Laughter]

	W:	Do you remember their birthdays or the years that they were born? B:	No, no because I’ve had two aneurisms. Uh-huh. And—

	W:	Do you remember their names? B:	Yeah I know their names.

	W:	Can you tell me some of the names of you older brothers and sisters?





	B:	Okay. Mac Ray is the oldest one; he’s the one of them adopted. And then I was next, Myrtle Joyce Maceethan Burks, and my sister Ester King, and my brother George Edmund Maceethan. And then my sister Victoria Jiles and my brother Colton Maceethan, he’s very high up in the air force. He retired now. [laughter] He was a gem [laughter] alright, alright. James Daniel Maceethan, Michael Anthony Maceethan, and Kenneth Maceethan. Kenneth is the baby.

	W:	Okay.



	B:	Uh-huh. And—



	W:	What is your- oh go ahead. B:	And my daddy died in 2006. W:	Uh-huh.

	B:	Uh-huh and Daddy and Ken stay together. And daddy didn’t want Ken to do nothing to the house but Ken kept doing it every now and so daddy would put ashes on the floor and stuff. [laugher] That’s over; things are different. Things are just different.

[Passing of microphone]



U: This has been one of the greatest activities of all times, this 1964 class reunion. And all of the former students- all of the alumnus- have shown our standard progress for the last forty-six years. And we are so appreciative of the fact that they have done well and you can tell that they have instilled the fame in





their children. And hopefully their children will instill the same in their children. And we’ve come a long way by faith. We walk by faith and not by sight. Okay?

	W:	Alright I got just one more last question for you what is your definition of leadership?

	U:	The ability to go out front, and although there is great criticism, to press on and get the people- direct and guide the people- in the right way without respect to glory. But this is a service that you render to mankind. You try to make the world a little better than it was before through words and encouragement of people.

Thank you.



	W:	Thank you.









[End of Interview]



	Transcribed by:	Liz Gray, May 1, 2013



	Audit edited by:	 Anna Jimenez, June 13,2013. Final-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, June 22, 2021