AAHP 338; Durrant and Franklin; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 338 Angenetta Durrant and Viola Franklin African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Deniann Grant on May 17, 2014 54 minutes | 27 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 338

Interviewee: Angenetta Durrant and Viola Franklin Interviewer: Deniann Grant

Date: May 17, 2014



	G:	My name is Deniann Grant. Today is May 17, 2014. Would you please state your name, starting with you, and where you were born, and the year you joined Macedonia.

	F:	Okay. My name is Viola Brown Franklin. And I was born in Pansey, Alabama. But I was quickly shuttled off to Jacksonville. And that’s where I grew up, in Jacksonville, Florida. And that’s where I met my husband. I went to Edward Waters College and that’s where I met my husband in 1954 or [19]55.

	G:	Okay. And what year did you join Macedonia? F:	We joined Macedonia in 1956.

	G:	Okay.



	D:	I’m Angenetta Durrant. I was born in Jacksonville. Moved to Melbourne under my parents, Jimmy and Viola Franklin, probably when I was two. I was born in 1955. I guess I came when they came. But my official joining of the church, myself, I’m think I was around nine when I got baptized. But I’ve been in the church all my days.

	G:	Very nice. Are you married? D:	Yes, I am to Ronald Durrant.

	G:	Ronald Durrant. And he’s also a member of Macedonia?



	D:	He attends Macedonia. Not a member yet, but he is a member as far as attending the church services.

	G:	Very nice. Okay. So, what initially brought you Melbourne?





	F:	My husband couldn’t find a job in Jacksonville. And they were hiring at the cape.



And upon my insistence, he came to finish up a job that another man had the Van Croix Theater here. And the man that worked there, Mr. Jackson, wanted him to take over his janitorial service, so he came here to work. And so we decided to go ahead and move here since we had work. So that’s what we did. We moved here in 1956, around that time. I was expecting my second child, Mr. Jimmy Junior. And so we’ve been here ever since. He went from that job to a Sears store downtown. And then he used to clean up the church and everything. That’s what he did.

	G:	Okay. Can you tell me a little bit about your experience in Jacksonville? What was it like being in Jacksonville in the [19]40s and the [19]50s when it was kind of Blacks were at odds with Whites during that time in America?

	F:	We weren’t really at odds. I didn’t know. I really didn’t know. I was living in a ghetto until then. I thought I was all right. [Laughter] But I remember I graduated from high school in 1954, which is the same year that the Brown versus legislation was passed. And so I said, “Oh, my children will get a chance to go to an integrated situation.” But as it turned out, by the time they started school, they had not done it. And that was in 1960—in the [19]60s. So Jacksonville was just like Melbourne. And in Melbourne where I told you about my husband came here to work at the Van Croix Theater, the Blacks had to sit upstairs and the Whites went around the front on US1. And we went around the back. We went upstairs. We would sit up there and throw out a little trash over the balcony. I guess that’s





how we took care of our frustrations. But we were in the best seats because we were up higher. I guess they didn’t know that.

	G:	So what was it like sitting in the balcony? What were you feeling at the time?



Was there any anger, any rage, was there contentment?



	F:	No. I don’t remember feeling that because I was with my peers. And we knew that’s what we had to do. And they used to have a little walk over bridge over the river. You been down US-1, and you come across that little creek. They call it Crane Creek. We would just walk across the swinging bridge and didn’t even realize how dangerous it was until a few years ago. A little girl got killed by a train trying to cross there.

	D:	Playing games.



	F:	Playing games but we didn’t do that. We looked to see if the train was coming before we decided to walk or run. But anyway, it was good.

	G:	It was good. So you mentioned earlier that you had hope that your children would be able to attend an integrated school.

	F:	Right.



	G:	And you said that didn’t end up happening for them.



	F:	No. It didn’t. Integration came, what? About almost ten years later was when integration started. And the way they did our community I don’t think that people remember that they divided up this community into sections. Some went on the beach side, some went out west, different places in this area. So you might have a cousin or somebody who lived right in your neighborhood and they went to a different school. And some schools are still like that because my great-





granddaughter, she goes over to Middle Lane, which is west Melbourne. And there are no schools, no Black kids going to Linford, Gemini. Those are the schools over on the beach side. Not that I know of. And there may be, I know there are some because some people have moved over there. That’s how they integrated the school: they just took pockets of kids and placed them in different schools.

	G:	Okay. So being that the Brown decision didn’t bring about immediate integration, did you at any time feel as though the government had failed you? As though the country had failed you and your children? What were your thoughts while you were waiting?

	D:	You were a teacher at that time, so.



	F:	No, I started teaching in [19]71, right? And my children started school in—what year you started school? In [19]60s?

	D:	I went to school [19]67, I think. Between [19]67, [19]68 school year. You wanted us to get a jump start on being in the environment of the integration. So I, being the oldest, I was put over into one of the schools. My brothers and siblings did not; they stayed. They were under me. So they stayed within the kindergarten with the Blacks. And I was the one who went to the White school but my brother went to University Park? Is that what he did?

	F:	Uh-huh.



	D:	Yeah. But she wanted me to get used to being with White kids, so my parents, my mom and dad, put me into the White school, which was Hoover Junior High School. By car, I got there. We didn’t have buses going on at that time. We got





car driven to the school. And it was five, maybe six of us at the time, Black kids being put into the school. It was an awkward position, an awkward time. But we made it. It wasn’t comfortable. Yeah. No, it wasn’t. But we had to make it work. And I was just telling them, while we were waiting, I was telling them about some of the scary times was that kids used to do terrible things to us. But to me, I can relate to what happened to me. Putting snakes in my locker, or pushing me around, and you didn’t have nobody. You really didn’t know if you could talk to a teacher because they were White, too. So, you kinda like had to deal with it.

	G:	Hm.



	D:	Yeah. And the next year was Central Junior High School, and it got better because we back with my own kind then. Because by that time integration really had them got in and they popped a lot of Blacks into the different schools because they closed down Stone School, which was an all-Black school and they were short-staffed. For the high schoolers, those that were in high school ended up going to Melbourne High School and the rest of the kids went to the various different elementary and junior high schools. So that was the late [19]60s, early [19]70s.

	G:	So when you first attended the White school, what was the common attitude of White students? Were they sympathetic or did they kind of act the way their parents did?

	D:	What they were taught? G:	Uh-huh.





	D:	Just like my mom was saying, you really don’t pay attention to that, until somebody asks you, or somebody do something to you, or say something to you because they did what they did and you do what you do. The only time there was an occurrence is like when something happens, like the snake in my locker.

	F:	Yeah.



	D:	They thought it was funny. And I was scared of them. But the teachers were supportive, the administration was supportive of what was going on because it was new to them too, I guess that’s why. Then after I got in high school, it happened again. Like in every level there was somebody. I think it’s kids just being mean, anyway. Kids just like to be mean. Yeah.

	F:	Or being funny.



	D:	Or think they funny. They’re not. F:	Trying to be.

	D:	Spitting on you and stuff like that. I know what Jesus went through. When they spit on you. They really spat on me.

	G:	So you actually had White kids that would spit?



D:  Actually spit on me. I had one that actually spit, coughed and spit on me. G:   Can you just explain the circumstance and maybe the year?

D:  It was my high school year. G:  It was her high school year. D:   My first year in high school.

G:   And were you just sort of walking in the hallway going to your—





	D:	Yeah. Was my minding my business and going to my class. And this White kid was up on the top backlight, because it’s a two-story high school, and I was walking underneath. And all the sudden, I’ve felt this [sound], rolling down my face. And was like, “Uh!” I saw who it was and so did others. At that time there was many other Blacks at the school. My uncle was a year ahead of me, him and some of his friends, they saw it happen. And they saw me cry and had time to figure it out. And they saw and they handled it for me, so I’m good. [Laughter]

	G:	How did they handle it?



	D:	I don’t remember exactly, but they handled it. They saw it. They saw the kid and they kinda like took it to another level. They didn’t kill him or hurt him but they just kinda shut in on him and told him don’t do that again. That’s a nice thing.

	G:	Did you always remain calm in those situations?



	D:	No! I was upset. What can I do other than tell somebody else that tells the others, tell kids that I teach every day, like be careful and people are not always for you. Sometimes people are against you. But you have to find a medium in trying to work past it, push past it, and keep it moving. Back then I didn’t feel like it. I was like ugh, l felt really nasty, of course. Washed my hair, my face, everything else. That was not a nice time.

	G:	Did you ever see those types of acts committed to other Blacks at school? D:	No. I’m quite sure it has. But we had a riot one year. What year was the riot? F:	That was when Jimmy was back.





	D:		My brother, they decided they wanted to boycott the school one year. The football team had sat out, didn’t go to class because they had an issue with the coaching staff or something, right?

	F:	Right. The couch told them that they were going to—as a matter of fact, that same coach’s son is the coach of Ayana’s softball team this year. Wasn’t it Mr. Sours?

	D:	Uhn-uh. How is that possible?



	F:	Who was that? Sours was the principal. So Brad is the son of— D:	—my principal. The principal of Melbourne High.

	F:	The principal, right.



	D:	This could be somebody else.



	F:	This coach that’s at Mel High School? They say that’s Mr. Sours son or grandson.

	D:	But that wasn’t the football coach. F:	Okay. Anyway.

	D:	He too young to be a football coach.



	F:	Anyway. Anyway. [Laughter] The year that my son, who was a year and a half under her.

	G:	What’s the name of the son? D:	Jimmy.

	F:	My son is Jimmy Junior. They had a football team and they had a good year. And that year the coach old them that they could select their MVP for the year. And





they selected one of their who they thought was the best player. But the coach didn’t like that player, so he didn’t—

	D:	Acknowledged him.



	F:	Didn’t acknowledge him, didn’t give him the credit. Now, I don’t know they found out what the count was with the voting. Because he let them vote. But he put up a White player in his place. And the kids went to him and asked him; they went to him fussing. So he wouldn’t back down on it, he wouldn’t change it, so they walked out. And caused a ruckus in the school till they called a meeting in the auditorium. And Dr. Wheeler was the superintendent, ended up coming there.

And my son, I guess he was—



	D:	Weren’t you teaching at the time? F:	Hm?

	D:	Weren’t you teaching at the time?



	F:	That was my third year in teaching. That was the year you get on continuing contract. And my third year teaching, I don’t know how I would have handled it if it hadn’t been happening. But anyway, they went. Dr. Wheeler say, he stood up after they talked and try to get it resolved by talking. And my son stood up and said, “Let’s go.” And the whole—

	D:	Team.



	F:	The whole school that was there got up and walked back. And Dr. Wheeler said, “Mrs. Franklin.” When he got it resolved, he wasn’t letting anybody else talk because they had a whole school and different people were talking to different parents. And he said, “Mrs. Franklin, your son is a leader. He turned down my





meeting because when he told the kids, ‘Let’s go,’, They all walked out. Now I don’t know what you going to do.” And he was sitting there, my son, and I don’t know. He had a Black secretary and he called her to come. So she called him out the room, and that was the one time I think he knew that, that I could talk to him. Because he said to my son, “If Mr. Sours asks you the next time to go to class”, because they walked out of class, “Would you go?” He looked at him, and he said, “No. I’m not going if I don’t think it’s right. No, I’m not going back.” I think all he wanted him to say was “Yes, I’m going.” But he would not back down so Dr.

Wheeler got up and left the room. I guess so I could talk to him in private and that’s when I did, I talked to him. And let him know that this man is holding a noose over my head because he knows that I work for the school board. And he knows that this is my time to get on continuing contact. But I put a few words in there that would make him listen to me. So, that’s how we resolved that issue.

	G:	So what was your position at the school?



	F:	At another school. I wasn’t at that school because that was high school. But I was over in an elementary school but the superintendent is over all of the schools.

	G:	What was the name of the elementary school? F:	Dr. W.J. Creel.

	G:	And what grade did you teach? F:	I was teaching first grade.

	G:	And you taught everything from English to science? F:	Oh yeah.





	G:	Okay. And what was the name of the high school that your son went to? F:	Melbourne High School.

	G:	Melbourne High school.



	F:	The same one she went to. But she had graduated that year. She was up in Jacksonville in school at the time.

	G:	So after your son had the lock out, strike, sit down, sit out. F:	Sit out.

	G:	Yeah. It’s sit out, right?



	V:	Yeah. It made the news. I think it made national news. D:	Mmhm.

	F:	Because they all walked out. I don’t know if any—we should have kept some of those papers.

	G:	Were you proud of your son for standing up for what he believed in?



	F:	No. I was proud of him. I was proud—I had mixed emotions about it. I don’t know how they should have handled it because I knew about prejudices myself and I believed them when they said that he didn’t do them right about the voting. I felt like the coach, if he wasn’t going to allow their vote to stand, he shouldn’t have promised them or shouldn’t have let them vote. He should have just gone ahead and selected the MVP himself. And let that been upfront, rather than letting them vote, then switching out like that. So I think they had a valid point and I was proud of him for that.

	G:	Did Macedonia take a stance on the issue? Were they backing you and your son?





	F:	Well, I don’t know if Macedonia because we didn’t bring it to the church but we had another lady here who is Mrs. Edna Jackson. I don’t know if you remember Charles Jackson who was here? It was his wife. She took a stance. And she called some meetings of the people in the city. And they got a lawyer and all to take the school to court and all of that. And she stood up with the kids and we had several meetings at old Macedonia. Yeah. So the church did stand with us, but the citizen, I think they call it the Citizens of South Brevard. I think that was the name of it. And that’s where they took up money and they did some little protest. I have to find out the details about it. But we didn’t go to court or anything but it was headed that way.

	G:	And what was it like for you dealing with segregation in Melbourne during the late [19]50s and early [19]60s?

	V:	It was terrible and we did marches and we tried to follow the same basic theory as they did with Martin Luther King. We would have practices, how you would do, because we had some marches on that same theater that we moved back here for. They were marching to integrate the theater. And we marched down there for that and I remember people standing on the street and yelling different obscenities. They didn’t have that many restaurants, but they did have one. And we marched downtown Melbourne in that same little bridge I was telling you about. And that’s all we had to march down because Melbourne was a small place. I remember marching there. I don’t remember us marching over. Why would we march over there anyway? But you know we should have. Show the people over that would have known. We did march downtown Elma. Yeah. We





marched down there several times about the theater. And that restaurant that where Meehans is. It’s a supply place now. But it was a restaurant.

	G:	Okay. So there’s a saying that children are innocent, right? And that they are likely to do what their parents do. But I guess my question to you is, being that you were a child once, innocent, without really being aware of the types of things that were happening, the tensions between Whites and Black, what was sort of a defining moment for you, where you realized that the line was sort of drawn in the sand? When you realized there was a tension between Blacks and Whites, where some Whites saw Blacks as unequal?

	F:	Oh. I realized it from birth, I guess. Very early on.



	G:	So you don’t agree with the saying that children are innocent and maybe they don’t sometimes pick up on certain things at a very early age?

	F:	They do pick up on it. I guess I understand your question. What you’re saying, do they not pick up on it? They have feelings about it.

	G:	You had feelings about it.



	F:	Yeah. As an infant, as a young child. Very young. Because I can even remember being very concerned about Emmett Till when he was murdered. And all the things that was happening. Yeah. I could internalize it. And I remember we used to ride the train and it was segregated. And the Blacks sit in one place and I remember every year we would ride from Jacksonville to Alabama. And I remember one year my momma was so upset. She met us because we would change trains when we’d cross Georgia. And one year when we got home to Jacksonville she said, “Them crackers stole my baby’s cap!” And I said, “Now,





how could a cracker—?” That’s how young I was. I’m trying to figure out how can a cracker steal a cap? [Laughter] And it took me a long time to understand what she was talking about because I hadn’t heard that term used before. That was my first time remembering hearing the word cracker.

	G:	So you thought she was talking about the biscuit, the food, cracker? F:	Yeah!

	G:	And not the term they use to refer to Caucasians.



	F:	Yeah. And that just puzzled me. That’s how young I was. G:	When exactly were you born?

	F:	In 1936.



	G:	1936. Do you know the month and the day? F:	Yeah. June 24th.

	G:	June 24th, 1936. Okay. So you knew from even back then even hearing your mother sort of reacting to the situations she was put in.

	F:	Yeah.



	G:	You kind of started, “Hmm, what is a cracker?”



	F:	No, I was trying to figure it out for a long time. So anyway, that’s stupid, but anyway it happened.

	G:	And for you, did you ever have sort of a moment that you remember that kinda told you that there were tensions between Whites and Blacks, where some Whites saw Blacks as unequal or saw you as unequal?

	D:	Like I said, not really, because the year before I got even introduced to the White school there was a young lady in my class, a young girl in my class, and I





thought she was already White so that’s why I didn’t ever know that was a different classification. Because, remember Barbara?

	F:	Yeah. Because I had thought they had integrated. She was in first grade.



	D:	She was a very high yellow girl, like you, and I thought she was a White girl. And I went home and I told my momma, “Ma! I got me a White girl in my class!” And she said, “That’s not a White girl. She’s a Black girl like you!” And, I’m like, “But she not White like me!” I didn’t understand it, so I never knew the difference, that it really branched off until I actually went to the White school and then I saw the different pigmentations and different characters and stuff. So, yeah. They did get better treatment than us, of course. Yeah.

	G:	Can you give some examples?



	D:	No particulars, but you could just tell. Their demeanor was like they looked down at you. You kinda like know which way to be and which way to not. You kinda disassociate yourself from being too close to them because their parents didn’t like you to talk to their kids, being in the same area with their kids, but I was always around Caucasians, so I didn’t know the difference because they got treated just like I did. Like I get dropped off to the White family and they fed me just like they fed their children. I guess because of my parents, my ancestors before me, like my cousin was the maid to the family so they knew us and knew how to treat us. So I didn’t really have that until I went to the school yard. Like I said, those two incidents at school. Other than that, I didn’t know the difference. I didn’t get treated no differently than they did. If I did, I didn’t really recognize it. It probably was there, but it wasn’t obvious. Not in my arena. Now there were





others that might have something different but I didn’t have any other than those couple of incidents I spoke to you earlier.

	G:	Was there like a common attitude in the Black community of just sort of minding your own business? Sort of like not trying to look for trouble? To look in the eyes of a White person and say, “Hey, are you treating me unfairly?” But kind of just get to where you’re going, the best way you know how. Was that kind of a common thing?

	D:	Mmhm.



	F:	Yeah. And I think the church helped. You just love them into integration, that’s it.



Because I was a maid too. And there was a little girl, she be talking in the morning when I get there, and her mother came up and she was just apologizing. And I said, “What did she say?” She said, “She called you nigger.” And so the next day, when I came back to work, the next time when I came back to work, the little girl was calling me, “bawaus.” But she was trying to say Viola. And I said to myself, “I’d rather you call me a nigger than to call me bawaus.” [Laughter] That must be what they were saying at home for her to say that, and for the mother to recognize that’s what she was saying, because I didn’t even understand what she was saying, because I guess her articulation, her speech was so bad. I don’t know. But I knew that’s what I had to do and I knew if I wanted some money, I had to work. So when I worked for them, that’s what I did. I’d just work.

	G:	How long were you a maid for? F:	Probably about ten years.





	G:	Did you experience any other types of prejudices being a maid in a White household?

	F:	You know that movie, The Help? That brings back a lot of memories. No, I just knew that’s what I was going to do. And I took pride in it because I don’t ever remember having no job that I didn’t like doing. I just did the best that I could and learn from each thing because that’s how I learned to iron and do all of that by being a maid. Because I remember the first maid job I had in Jacksonville, the lady taught me how to section off the shirts and which part you iron first, you know the back of the shirt and all this kind of stuff. So I just did it. I don’t remember.

	G:	Can you tell me a little bit about your parents? And some of the things that maybe they had to go through? Some of the stories that they passed on to you?

	F:	I know that my grandmother, they say that her parents, her father, who was a White man or something like that, because that side of the family, they are Caucasians, really. Some of my uncles, grand-uncles and stuff. No. I just remember the stories that they would tell us but they didn’t give us any names of how we could trace down our roots from that. But that’s one thing I wanted to do. If that was indeed possible.

	G:	And what was the name of your mother?



	F:	My mother was Willy Astea. She was a childress. She was born in Alabama and everything. Her parents died early on, before she got to be an adult. And her uncles and all that.

	G:	And your father’s name?





	F:	My father, he was Steven Brown. G:	Okay. And what did he do?

	F:	He was a merchant seaman. Mmhm. Yeah.



	G:	Okay, so given both of your experiences in Melbourne outside of the church, what was it about Macedonia that made you feel welcome? What is it about this church in particular that you think is special to you and others in the Black community?

	F:	What makes it special to me is that it’s innate. I feel like it’s my baby, you know?



When I came here it was just a lot of historical feelings in being here; this is where I belong. I don’t think, maybe I could, I don’t think I could be with another congregation where I felt the nurturing. I can remember when, because my first two children were born close, and when I joined this church my son was an infant. All I had to do was get to church. And I didn’t have to worry about a babysitter no more until I got back home because children at the church just took my babies and they kept them. I think we’ve always had a nursery here.

	D:	Yeah, pretty much.



	F:	And sometimes they would take them home and I wouldn’t see them until the afternoon. My daughter doesn’t live here. I have my youngest daughter; she lives down in Fort Lauderdale. And she’s always talking about, “I don’t have nobody to get my children,” when she get off work. So it’s just a good place to have; it’s just like a family. It’s like having people in the house with you. My kids went to kindergarten, but I never had to worry about a babysitter because somebody would always take care of them for me.





	G:	Very nice. And what about you? What makes the church special to you? D:	It’s the only place I’d ever been for worship, all the way back to being a tot.

Always been family, because I guess we always—around here we all grew up together, so we all knew each other and family was family whether you had a Smith name, Davis name, Franklin name, Taylor name. Whatever your name was, you still were family because everybody watched out for each other children. There was no children, like, “You better not talk to that child because their parents might cuss you out.” No. Where you cut up is where you got your butt taken care of because everybody, as they say, take a village to raise a family, to raise children. That’s what happen. But now, better not touch nobody’s children because you may get lynched. But even your own kind. But yeah, I think because of the family nucleus, it’s what we had. Everybody took care of each other. There was no outside, nobody felt like they were outside, even someone that was a cousin to somebody else’s cousin, you brought them in and it’s just always been family-oriented. It’s always been that way.

	F:	And then another thing, their father, my husband, Jimmy, he moved away from the church for a while, but when he came back he started the youth choir and I guess that’s the most strengthening part. They could sing and they were good at it. And they had so many things to involve the children. Go to conventions and all over.

	D:	The nation, pretty much. Yeah.



	F:	East coast. All the little children and their family was just like my children.





	D:	There were no strangers. They brought home children, just like children bring home cats, and dogs, and stuff. My parents bring home children. She brings them from the school house and they stay over the weekends. And my daddy used to be the youth director for the church and we had choir rehearsal, he followed the kids, made sure the kids got home. He was concerned enough to know that, look when you under my care, you’re under my watch, I took care of you. And made sure they got back home. If they got home, then went somewhere else, then that’s another story. But they can always look back and say, okay, he cared enough to saw that I got home safely and whatever. But we always had that nucleus at Macedonia that say that, yeah, they care.

	G:	Yeah. So what I’m hearing now is that the church has kinda been like a central place for the community. And I’m also hearing that it was also a safe haven and a place where Blacks could be leaders.

	D:	Right.



	F:	Uh-hm.



	G:	Kids could actually attend church service, and look and see people with their skin color in positions of power directing them in their lives, right? So that is also very profound. And it seems as though it’s a very meaningful experience to you both. So my next question is, in what ways does Macedonia currently impact the community?

	D:	Outreach. The same way. We still have all mix and types of kinds. They all come here and they get the same nurturing, family oriented, concern for each other.

And we do evangelism. Reverend Harris always stresses that we need to come





outside of the church, not always meet at the church. Sunday’s good, but during the week, whatcha doing? You go outside of the church and you don’t necessarily have to beat nobody down to come to Christ, but you do introduce Christ by your lifestyle. And you try to do things that would draw people to the church. Tell them about what do you have available at your church. We have GED classes, parenting classes, we have a nursery on Sundays for the ones that parent’ want to come and enjoy the service, there is a nursery available for them to bring their kids and they can sit while they enjoying. The TV is monitored and everything, so we have availabilities, we do have assets. And we try to reach out. And that’s what I like about it because they concerned about each other. They’re concerned about the community. That’s why they went into building houses around the church. We got affordable homes around the church for families that are trying to buy land and property around the church site. So that they can have affordable homes for people that needs homes. So that’s a good outreach. That’s very good. And we have a food pantry. Always giving out food during the week and weekends, whatever. It’s good.

	G:	That’s excellent. Okay, as we wind down our interview, do you have any last concerns, any comments that you would like to state, maybe going back to your childhood? Or within the church? Or your involvement in the community? Is there anything else that you would like to say, starting with you?

F:  All today I’ve been thinking that I’m a member of a sorority called Delta Sigma Theta, and we have a building over there. That the same lady I was telling you that helped my son when the school did the—





	G:	The sit-out.



	F:	The sit-out. Whatever. G:	Yeah. Strike.

	F:	And we got it from the city. We had said we were going to make it into a museum for Blacks about Melbourne. And that’s my next focus, is to see if we can work on getting a grant or figuring out a way to make that into a museum. It was burned down in 1953, I think. But they still have the cement structure that’s there and that had been a recreation center. But now Delta has it as a house. Delta. What is it?

	D:	Life center.



	F:	Life center. It’s Delta Life Center now. I was thinking of a way we can make that into a museum for this community because we have a lot of information and a lot of history just sitting around in people’s houses, that some people would enjoy. Reminiscing, like we did today, about what has happened, bring it back to the focus to let us know how blessed we are.

	D:	Sounds good.



	G:	That’s a great point. F:	Uh-huh.

	G:	You have any last thoughts?



	D:	Not really. I really was listening to her. That is a good thought.



	G:	Yeah. Well thank you ladies so, so much for allowing me to interview you. I have learned so much today. So I thank you for sharing your lives with me. And I thank





you for taking the time out of your day to actually allow me to sit here and interview you for around fifty minutes.

	F:	Aw. Thank you.



	G:	Oh, yeah. No Problem.



	F:	I enjoyed the opportunity to kind of express, as I think back over my seventy- seven years, there are a lot of things that I‘ve thought about and have forgotten and then they’d come back to me again. But I appreciate being able to talk to you. And think, how did I feel? I haven’t had a chance to talk about my feelings. And that’s something that I want to reminisce one day. I know I didn’t know that I came from a ghetto. And I used to stand out on the street in Jacksonville, people come by and take pictures, and I would just pose and carry on. And somebody told me, “They’re just taking that so they can go back and show those pictures.” I thought I was doing something wonderful. So I’m in somebody’s history book some place. [Laughter]

	G:	And now you’re in ours.



	F:	Well, I have enjoyed it. I’ve enjoyed—is that on? G:	It’s still recording. I’ll stop it whenever you say so. F:	Okay. Well you can stop it.

	G:	Alright, well thank you so much, again, both of you. F:	Okay.

	D:	Thank you.



	G:	I really appreciate it. I’m going to stop recording now. D:	Thank you.





	F:	I remember going to—my sister was being treated for scoliosis at the time and we were in the doctor’s office. And this little girl, she was a childish girl. And I was sitting in the chair in the waiting room, and my sister had gone back to her visit, everything. My mom and I was sitting in the waiting room and the little girl kept looking at me. She was sitting across from me. She was a little White girl. And I kept trying to—you know how you can feel uneasy but I was still in like junior high or whatever, and she kept looking at me. And I’m like, “Ma, why is she looking at me?” And so finally, she got up, she came over and she sat in my lap. Just pulled my legs apart, and sat in my lap, and start touch me. Feeling on my face and looking at me. And when she finished doing all that, she got up and she went back over and sat with her parents. From that day on I was like, okay what was going on? And then her parents got up and she came over. She said she never seen anybody of a different color. She was taking that to color pigmentation. I’m glad you didn’t get upset. I didn’t get upset because I just got like, okay, why is she? She didn’t hit me; she was just checking me out. And I didn’t know, trying to see. Then the parents explained to her, they said they explained to her. Then they came over and talked to me and told me what she was doing. I said, “Well, okay, as long as she can’t hit me, but that was fine.” But I didn’t know that there was a difference and she didn’t know that I was different from her. She just knew I had different color skin from her, and she was trying to figure out why, and checking me out, like, hm? But just like we were saying, just know that we are different, that we’re supposed to treat each other different, you don’t.

	G:	Yeah. That happened to be recently actually, for a little boy I baby sit.





	F:	Yeah? Was he checking you out?



	G:	We were watching cartoons. No he wasn’t checking me out. We were watching cartons and then finally he just turned to me and he said, “Why are you brown?”

	D:	Oh.



	G:	And then he just went back to watching like his cartoon. I was like “Well, people come in all different colors.” And he was just like, “Okay. Just wondering why you were brown.”

	F:	That’s good. [Laughter] D:	Yeah. Yeah.

	G:	[Laughter] So, I’m like, “Well there, you got your answer.” I have to give you ladies a hug before you go. This was so lovely. I really enjoyed being here.

	F:	Well, thank you. We can be here.



	G:	I get to see you guys. I love that sanctuary.



	F:	We really do enjoy company. And we enjoy you all because you’re good for us. D:	That was interesting.

	G:	Let me stop recording this. [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Juliette Barbera, September 13, 2017 Audit-edited by:	Anupa Kotipoyina, April 20, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 24, 2019