AAHP 061A; Buchanan; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 061A Joel Buchanan African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by John Wich on June 15, 2009 50 minutes | 23 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Joel Buchanan describes some of his family history and his experiences growing up in Gainesville, Florida, in the 5th Avenue neighborhood. Mr.

Buchanan was one of the first three Black students to integrate Gainesville High School, and he describes the experience that he shared with LaVon Wright and Sandra Williams. He describes it as an exceedingly lonely and difficult experience, though one he is glad to have had. Mr. Buchanan also describes what segregation was like in Gainesville and wider Florida, and some of the Civil Rights Movement activities that he was involved in. He also discusses his career as a librarian, and the Black history collections that he brought in to the UF Smathers Libraries Special Collections.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Integration; Education; Civil Rights Movement; Archiving]







































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 061A

Interviewee: Joel Buchanan Interviewer: John Wich Date: June 15, 2009



	W:	If I can just get you to state your name and also your job title here on campus.



	B:	I am Joel, Joseph Joel Marcus Buchanan, and I am working in the Smathers Library in Special Collections as an archivist for African American culture and history.

	W:	Okay. Before we go into what you do here at the University, can you tell me a little about your childhood, and, and your…how you were brought up?

	B:	Sure. I was born here in Gainesville, to—parents, my father’ name is Joseph Buchanan, he was called Joe Buchanan, and my mother’ name was Gussie Mae Williams, before she was married, then she became Gussie Mae Buchanan. And I’m one of four children. There was a brother, Broward, who was older, who was in the Air Force, who attended Lincoln High School and graduated early, and went into the Air Force when he was qualified agewise to go into the Air Force. And the next child was Unita Leanne Buchanan, my sister, who graduated from Lincoln High School as well, who did…went down to Hampton Community College and worked at Southern Bell for several years, and now she works for the Alachua County School System. Then there is me, Joel Buchanan. I’m the third of four children. I attended Lincoln High School, then I left Lincoln High School when the NAACP locally under the leadership of Thomas A. Wright, Rev. Wright, who was the president of the main branch of the NAACP with Charles Chestnut III, who was the president of the Youth Branch—and I was a member of the youth branch. And in 1964, the NAACP wanted to integrate the public school system, and he needed some children to test if we were able to go to school. And out of the children that he asked, I was one that said I’ll…my parents said they could use my name for the suit that was filed against the school board. And after taking a series of





tests—I think there was eight of us—there were three students selected, two girls and one boy. And I was the boy. And we integrated Gainesville High School in 1964. I graduated from Gainesville High School on time, and I got a scholarship to the new community college that was fixing to come into existence in Gainesville, Santa Fe Community College. I went there for one year, came to the University of Florida and graduated with a degree in English and Math, taught in the public school system for I forget now how many years, came back to get an advanced degree—and that was in education—went back and had more than twenty years in the public school system, and the community college, and now here at University of Florida. And the youngest child, who is my youngest brother, who is Gregory Kent, and he integrated the junior high school, and went to Gainesville High School, and graduated. And he now works in the Alachua County school system, in the supply—but his area of studies was in accounting, and he does the monitoring of supplies for the Alachua County school system. And those are the family traits, and that’s the background. And I’ve been here at Smathers Library for the last ten years, and I’m enjoying being there. And I’m enjoying being on campus.

	W:	Now while growing up, did you have a close, tight-knit family?



	B:	Yes, my mother and father lived with their four children, and we lived in the Northwest Fifth Avenue community, and we were close-knit. My father worked here at the University of Florida at the main cafeteria as the head cook. And my mother had finished school, and had some college, but she chose to work, it was—at that time, she was making more by working for a federal judge here in Gainesville, John A. Murphy.

And she worked there for years, And she only worked, I think, the first three days of the





week, and the rest of the time she was home. And all I remember is, we went to school. I was a member of the Boy Scouts, and all my social activity was with the Scouts, and then we were very heavily involved in the church where my great uncle, Henry Williams, was the pastor.

	W:	Now, saying that you were born here in Gainesville and still living in the area, how has the city changed over the years?

	B:	It has got—it is, I think, larger, because people are living in more diverse areas. I was raised in the North West Fifth Avenue area, but I’m living now in southeast Gainesville. When I was growing up, there was only one school for people of color in Gainesville, and that was Lincoln High School. But you have schools—now you have Eastside, you have Gainesville High, and you have the Lawton Center where you can go to either one of the schools. And I think the city has changed with the time. I don’t remember it coming up as a child, we would used to leave Gainesville and go to Jacksonville to shop. But now, you have so many different commercial places here to shop that is unique, and with the Oaks Mall in the location, and it has grown to a very large city and I think the University has enhanced that. But with the development of the community college here as well is that it’s very large compared to what it was. I pretty much stayed –most of my time, in growing up, was in the Northwest Fifth Avenue area that I lived, on Sixth Avenue. And my church is about four blocks from my home. And all I did was school, church, and then in the summer, being free, and I took activities with the Scouts.

	W:	Now, when you were integrated into Gainesville High School, what was that experience like?





	B:	It was a shocking experience—experiences—that I went through, and no one was able to tell us what it was like, because it had not been done in this city, or county, or state prior to. We were the first three. So, I pretty much knew it was going to be different, because I was going from an all-Black school to a predominantly all-White. And I was going to be the one to integrate it. I didn’t realize that there was such a resistance among the White community for an African American to come there until it happened. I saw a level of hate that I had never seen before. Because my mother worked for a prominent White family, the Murphys, and there were times we would go out to the home to activities. And I was here on campus, where there was exposure—well, being a student at Gainesville High School. There were people that did not speak, they did not communicate, and did not want to be in the environment that I was in. And I was just there to get an education. And there were three of us: the girl that preceded, that was ahead of me, was named LaVon Wright, who is now LaVon Wright Bracy in South Florida. And she was in twelfth grade. I was in eleventh grade, and Sandra Williams was in tenth grade. And we were the first three, that year, and we could not go to any activity after school. We went to school in a unmarked police car, and we only got out of the car, went straight to our designated class areas, and we left after school. We were not encouraged to participate in any activities or go to any activities, because they was concerned with the safety of the three of us. Something that I learned that year that I have not forgotten: I did not—we, the three students, along with the assistant principal from Lincoln High School that I attended previously, met with the chief of police downtown before we went to the school to discuss the safety of the three of us. And they discussed then that we could be assassinated. And I did not—had not registered in





my mind then because I was just in tenth grade, that if I was killed, I would be dead today. And they talked about that was a possibility of it happening. Fortunately, it didn’t happen. But it was a very tiring time, and I think—well I don’t think, I know—the three of us surprised the community because it was perceived that we were not prepared to be there, and we were prepared. LaVon graduated on time, and I think she was in the top five percent of the class. I graduated on time, and I was in the top ten percent of the class. And Sandra did, as well. So we all graduated on time, and the experience was a challenging experience, but I’m glad I had the experience.

	W:	Now, when they told you that you might have the possibility of getting assassinated, you said that it really just didn’t register. Did the girls have any feelings about that? Were they worrying?

	B:	I don’t know if they did, but I do know that we had a meeting in the first of the year, I think celebrating forty years, and Lavon mentioned then that she didn’t want to do it. She did it because her father needed someone to step up and say, “I’ll be one to go,” and she was the first one. That she said that she was beaten by a group of a students, and that she had to be hospitalized. And it was a very unpleasant experience for her, and when she spoke the first of the year, she said she was unhappy then. And she still is unhappy now. I don’t think—if I had to reflect back, we were not really prepared for what we went into. We were prepared professionally, academically; but the environment was more hostile than we thought it was going to be. But we were told that we were there to get an education, and that was the goal. And because it became known city- wide, the thing that was very important to me—then, and important now—is that when a task is started, it must be completed. And that I had got into the ball game and I had to





play the game fair. And so, I had the challenge of leaving, going back to where I came from, but we were not welcome there because of what we had done. And so, I think it was one of those situations where people felt they knew what was going to happen, but nobody knew, so they could not give us an open hand, and we had to deal with it as we dealt with it.

	W:	Now, looking back on it over the years, and having time to really reflect on it, what does it make you feel like when you sit back and think, “I was the first African American student integrated in Gainesville?” Or the first man?

	B:	Well because you’re doing the oral history, I guess it’s very important historically. And during the time I was going through the process, it was a very lonely process, and there were times that I found it very difficult. But I was told I had started the task and I had to complete it. I’m very glad I had that experience, and I’m glad I took the experience, because it proved that if a person is academically prepared, and they could have been denied certain privileges that, if they were given the opportunity, and had the resources presented to them, and they put their mind to it, they could be successful. And the three of us proved that just because we were darker skin color-wise, and from a different race of people, we had the ability to learn, and we wanted the chance to do that. And we proved that we could learn, and were successful. But I’m glad I had the experience.

	W:	Now, moving a little bit to your family, were there any hardships that your family had to face, you know, from segregation in the communities growing up?

	B:	I don’t know if it was hard. I just do remember that there were certain places that we couldn’t go, and I came up in a family where you didn’t go anywhere unless you was with someone else. So my going was very limited, and I only went to certain places. So I





guess we lived within what we had to do. I do remember that, if we did major shopping then, we did that in Jacksonville. And I do remember there were stores that I could not go in. And one of the places that I have a very pleasant memory of is, there was a restaurant on Thirteenth Street that was called Captain Louis Seafood. And I remember we had to go to the back door of the restaurant and stand outside to order the meal.

And the cook would come and take your order, and you would wait until he had a free time, and then he would cook it and bring it to you, you paid there. I said to myself that I was going to eventually be able to go in that restaurant to sit down, because I felt the only difference between the people that were in there and those outside was skin color. I had the resources, and I knew how to behave, and I had good table manners, so I was determined to go in there. And I had a chance to visit Captain Louis when they finally allowed students to come in, and the place that I was arrested from during the test of the—if we could go to restaurant was right across from Captain Louis, was a restaurant that was on the corner of University and Third, where Krispy Kreme doughnut shop sit today. That was called Humpty Dumpty restaurant. And six of us went in one day for lunch, and we were told—they locked the door after we got into the restaurant. It was a drive-in. A group of Blacks in a car drove in onto the parking lot, and the managers, and the whoever, went outside, and when they went outside to deal with the people in the car, the six of us walked into the restaurant. And we took a seat, and then he locked the door. We were told they were not going to serve us. And they took us to jail. And, when we went to court, all I remember saying to the judge is all we did was sit down and ask for lunch. And we were prepared to pay for it. We were not served, we were put on probation. My brother, Gregory, the youngest one, he participated in the desegregation





of the elementary/junior high school. And those times were pretty much, much different than the time that we were, because we had pretty much helped for theirs. So my parents and the family accepted what was happening, and I was the only one who was willing to try to make a difference. And I’m glad I made a difference. And the thing that they did is, when I was demonstrating the years at Gainesville High School, then when I came to University of Florida, they supported those things that I was in, and made sure that I had the necessary tools I needed to be successful in my effort, and to support what I was doing.

	W:	Now how did they feel when you were arrested for just simply going to eat?



	B:	I don’t know that. I don’t remember that. I remember when I went to court, the person who went with us—with me—was my mother. And when I had to be put on probation, and to go to the courthouse to visit the judge, I think it was weekly or bi-weekly. She supported that effort. But that was the first time and the last time. So I think they supported me there. My mother was very much into what I was doing, and supported what I was doing. My father did not really want me to do it because he feared for my life, but once I made the decision I was going to do it and my mother supported it, he pretty much gave me the support as well.

	W:	Now was that, was the whole being integrated into the high school, and not being able to shop, is that your first memory of segregation?

	B:	Yes and no. I do remember that everybody in my neighborhood where I lived was all Black, and I do remember that there was certain parts of town that I could not go in. And I remember when things began to change and we were picketing, I pretty much was the only one in the family that participated. My older brother had gone into the Air Force, so





he was not here. My sister, I don’t think I remember her demonstrating at all, and if the younger brother did it, he did it on a limited basis. So, pretty much it was a first experience, and they supported whatever was I was doing.

	W:	Now, growing up, you said you were part of the Boy Scouts and you were active in the church. Were there any other organizations that you were a part of growing up that had a positive impact in your life?

	B:	Yes, at Lincoln High School, where it was an all-Black enrollment, I was a member of the student government, and ran for student officer, and was appointed a position. And also, I was a monitor in my classes for many years. And I was in—I forget what the club was called—I think it was called I think it was called the Terrier’s Leaders—where I was a person that had done well academically. It was like a semi- honor society. So I was in the leadership role. But I took on leadership role in the Boy Scouts. But the one thing I did in the Boy Scouts that I was not encouraged to do, but I wanted to do it: I wanted to learn to cook. And one of the things I did, I learned to work—when we would have camping out, I would take duty to work with the cook, and learn what he was doing. And would make a point to make sure that the meals were served on time, and serve the young people. And that was definitely an inspiration to me then, and still is, because I enjoy cooking.

	W:	Now, did you ever face any segregation being a part of the Scouts? Or was it all open? B:	I don’t remember anything at all about the Scouts, because it was pretty much an all-

Black Boy Scout, and when we went, camping trips were all Blacks, and with the jamboree. The only thing I remember I dealt with segregation as a student at Gainesville, at Lincoln High, I had done a science project. And I had to be in eighth or





ninth grade, and I had gotten little white mice, and I did a project on the essentials of vitamins to the body. And I showed what vitamin A, E, and C, will do to the body, and the lack of. And I won the school project competition. And I went to the regional, I won that. And I went to the state. And I think the State was integrated. And I was not allowed. My project was entered into the competition. It had won. And the day when students are there to explain what they’ve done and why, I showed the importance of vitamins on the body and the lack of—what would happen to you. And I used rabbits to show what would happen to the body with lack of the vitamins. And it was there, and I wanted to go to my project, and I was told I couldn’t go. And I questioned why, and they said, because that was not my project. And it was my project. And I was told that it looked like a project that a White student would have done. And I didn’t understand that. I did a quality project, and I was not allowed to be seated with the project. And that did not happen. And I won the competition, but the award was given to me later. And I was determined that, if I did nothing else, I was going to see that that would never happen to a student again. And that changed. That was the only time that I remember having to deal with skin colors, into what I could do and what I could not do.

	W:	Now, while growing up—you know, obviously the Scouts had a positive impact, the church had a positive impact. Is there any one person that you would credit today for you being who and the way you are?

	B:	There are many role models in my life, but two that stand out quite prominent was— one, the person that I remember, doing a lot of talking about it was important for us to get an education; and we had to go to school; and we had to do very well in school academically; and we had to attend on a regular basis; was my mother. She was very,





very much for education and made sure we had the very best that we had. And whatever we needed to have, it was provided for us by her and my father. And the other person who became a mentor to me was the pastor of my church, who is my great uncle, Henry Williams, who then became Bishop Henry Williams. And he had gone to a theological seminary, and had his doctorate, and he was very much for education. And he became sort of like a surrogate father, and I’ve only seen him always dressed in a three-piece suit. And he was very proud of what I was doing, and he encouraged me to do what I was doing, and pretty much was one of the persons that I remember as being a leader. And the other person who influenced me a lot, and still does today, is Charles Chestnut III, who was president of the Youth Branch of the NAACP. I never wanted to work in a job where I would become dirty, and I never wanted to work in a job where I became a servant. And one of the persons I remember seeing all the time with a coat and tie on was Bishop Henry Williams, and Charles Chestnut III, and I was determined I was going to have a job like that. And so, those were people that pretty much left a major impact on my life. And then, my father, who was my mother’s husband, who was home, I was very impressed with living at home where there were both parents.

	W:	Now you say, you know, Charles Chestnut was a positive impact in your life in the NAACP. Did you ever work with him on any projects or anything?

	B:	Yes, well, Charles—my parents had one car. And when I was going to the NAACP meetings in the evening times, Charles would pick me up, and he would take me to the meetings. And one of the things I recall then—and this is back in the [19]60s, early [19]70s—that many time they would say that a meeting was going to be held at this church, and for safety purposes, the meeting would be changed to another church. And





then, he would take me there. So, pretty much a lot of my going to and from to the meetings, he was the one who did that for me. And then also, we had a test of a facility to see if it was integrated or not, I can always remember Charles Chestnut III being on the picket line. There’s a place on University Avenue that was called The College Inn during my days. I think it’s the Purple Porpoise now. And we were not allowed to go in there, but Mr. Chestnut had dressed that day in African motif outfit, and there was an African conference on campus. And he had gone into the restaurant, and we had a picket line outside. And he had said to us if he was in the restaurant, he would come back for us. And he left the restaurant, came out to get us to go back in. He was in, had received his meal, but when we came in, we could not be there. And so, his thing was, he and his group of friends would leave, if we could not be there. And that’s the only time I remember him doing something of that nature, but I do know he was on the picket line all the time, and he was very, very involved. And he is still very involved.

	W:	Now, skipping quite a few years: you’ve taught around, you said. Out of those years between beginning teaching after you earned your degree from the University of Florida and now, what would you think is your most prized memory that you have, over the years?

	B:	I think, if I have to review what I’ve been involved in, is that I have been a positive person for change. And I put myself in positions, and on boards, and in organizations, to show that you can have a positive effect if you partake. And many of the boards and organizations I was on, I was the first, and have been the only one, but I proved that if you really want to do something, and want to bring about change, and you’re sincere, you can work toward that goal. And it can take place. One of the things I did that I think





has been very important to the city of Gainesville, is when the city of Gainesville were getting ready to develop their Department of Cultural Affairs, and they needed a Board of Directors, I applied for that job. And was the first person of color appointed to the Cultural Affairs Board of Directors. And it was being organized into a department. And we interviewed the candidates that came down interview for the director of that position. And the first director of culture for the city of Gainesville was a gentleman of color, Lemuel B. Moore, and I was one of the persons that interviewed him for that job, and was there. And I don’t know if there is anyone of color on the board now, but I can say that if you put yourself in a situation to be involved, and you do attend the meetings on a regular basis and give substance, you can make a change, and you can be utilized. And at one point, I was on eight different boards. And, I would attend the meetings on a regular basis, and I would make a point to give my input, do my homework, would be very much—if we had an activity, would be there for that. And so, I proved that if you want to make a change, you can make a change. And Gainesville will allow that to happen. Because it happened to me.

	W:	So you have been quite a busy man.



	B:	I have been quite busy. For some reason, the first of the year, I was on the Board of Directors at the Florida Museum of Natural History. And I removed myself from that board. And so, I’m downsizing now. I’m taking care of just coming to work, doing some of the research, and spending more time taking it easy now, because at one point in my life, I was extremely busy. Very involved. But now I’m downsizing. [Laughter]

	W:	Now, tell me a little bit exactly what you do here at the University of Florida.





	B:	I was at a conference several years ago that was sponsored by the University of Florida, but I can’t remember now what the conference was about. But there was the Assistant Director of the Library there made a statement, publicly, that day, that the library had tried to hire a person of color in a key administrative position, and they were not able to do that. And he wanted to know the reason why. So I heard him make that statement, so I stood up in the affair—and I think it was a luncheon that day—and he looked me. He said, “Well, why are you standing?” I said, “May I answer your question?” And I said, “Because I don’t think you were hiring.” And he said, “What do you mean?” I said, “I’m qualified to be at the library. Hire me.” And he gave me a challenge. He said, “Come see me and we’ll talk about it.” And I went to see him. I was hired on a limited basis, half time because they didn’t have a slot for my position, and they created the slot for me. I’m a Archivist in the Smathers Library in Special Collections, and Special Collection is where we do special—have books that are categorized according to subject and author title, and when I came her,e I did not see any person of color in a professional role. And my role was—and I was told, and I’m still doing that—is to begin to collect and preserve Afro-American collections. And being in the library, I do a major exhibit, usually the end of January all the way through February and into March, and that has been dealing with the way of life of people of color. And, then I have also made a point to visit persons within the state to do oral histories, and to ask what they collect, and would they make a donation to the library. And I think we have, now, five very significant collections: one of the first Black dentist of Gainesville, Doctor E.A Cosby; the first African American mortician in Marion County, that is housed in Ocala, the A. Alde— Albert Alde—and James Cunningham’s funeral records from the [19]50s to the current;





and we have the Jim Haskins Collection at the Smathers Library; and we have the oldest social club for ladies of color in Florida, that was started I think in 1934 or [19]36—the Visionnaires, we have their collection. So I’ve been able to collect, display, and invite people from the community to the campus to see what is here, and I’m putting things in the library for research purposes, and for longevity, that deal with who we are, how we got where we are, and where we are. Because I’m working on now getting a collection from Ocala on one of the first Black administrators at the public junior colleges years ago, that became Marion County Community College [Central Florida Community College], Bill Jackson’s collection. So my thing is to get collections: what people collected, why they collected, and to study what that is. And so, that’s what I’m doing now, is making my presence visible, and make sure we are an intricate part of what’s going on in the library. And I had a very unpleasant illness the first of last year, so I had to downsize my activities. I was spending, I think, almost every day at the public desk in the Smathers Library where people come to do research. And now I’m only there three days a week, Monday, Wednesday, and Fridays that I’m at the desk. And I am the person at the library who is responsible for what goes on in the library at that hour, and at that time, and make sure that the presence and availability of a person of color is seen, and that I am involved in their activities.

	W:	Now, when you say that you have five major collections at the University, and that you put them on display every year in the beginning of January: when you invite the people out, what is the first thing you—If you had to take them on a tour, what would be the first thing you would show them? The most important thing there?





	B:	Well, the only time I’ve invited people here is to see what the University of Florida Library is. To see what we have in storage, from the collection, and talk about the need for the history of the people of color to be a part of that, because there is a void. And on the exhibits we’ve had, we’ve had as many as three to four hundred people attend those, because: one, they have a chance to come on a campus where many of them were not welcome, and have not been; two, they have a chance to see something that looks—about who they are; and three, that it’s happening at the University of Florida.

And now we’re getting ready to ask people to sponsor a book, and we hope that we will be able to get people to say, “I’m willing to purchase a book, and I want this book to be on Florida history. But I want it to be by a Black writer, and/or the subject matter is on people of color.” So, that’s the important part that I’m doing now.

	W:	So it’s going to be a book about Black Florida history? B:	Yes.

	W:	And any time frame do you think that…



	B:	No, we just talked with the local mortician—which is Charles Chestnut and Larry Saunders—about taking this on as their leadership, and hopefully this coming fall, I’ll be going around to organizations and individuals, talking about them purchasing a book, and having a list of what is out there, so they could tell us what they want to be purchased, and we hope to do this within a year’s time, and hopefully have between five hundred to a thousand of these books a part of this collection.

	W:	Now, is it difficult to get them to say that they want a part of these books?



	B:	What I have found is, the library is really aggressively trying to fill the gap that exists in the area of African American history and culture, and whatever they can do to help me





do that, they’ve encouraged me to do that. And my role is to go wherever I need to go to get the history, and to get the individuals, and to make sure that it’s part of the library, and to become a permanent part of it.

	W:	It’s got to be good feeling to know that they’re behind you so much.



	B:	It is a good feeling to know that they’re behind me, and, hopefully, what we do here, we will be able to expand it to other libraries across the state. And I’m going to make a call today or tomorrow to an African American librarian in Miami who called, and hopefully I’ll be making a visit there to speak about what we’re doing here, and to encourage them to do the same thing there. I think society has realized that there is a void, and there is a need to fill that void. And one of the best persons to do it is a person of color. And I’ve been given the privilege to be able to travel, and to bring these resources in. And of course, what substance of the material is important. And I realize I’m at a major university, so I realize I don’t need to get books that are in high school. So I have the resources to do that, and I’m able to go where I need to go. So I’m very pleased with the library, and the administration is supporting what I’m doing.

W:  That’s great. Now, can you tell me a little bit about your experiences in race relations on the campus over the years since you graduated? You know, you have two degrees from here, and now working here, that’s got to be a little bit different.

	B:	It is much different. And the one thing that is very pleasant to me is, that I do see students of color who are students of the University of Florida, who are currently enrolled at the University of Florida, and who have graduated from the University of Florida. And so that we have made some major steps from where we were in the early [19]70s to where we are today. I think we have a long ways to go, but something that I





have learned to appreciate and understand: that the University of Florida would never be a carbon copy of Florida A&M. This is a predominantly White institution, and it’s going to be a predominantly White institution. You have a few people of color on campus—I think we have about 2500 here now. I think we could get to maybe five thousand. It might be ten at the most, but that’s going to take a major effort. Many people want to go where they feel they are a major part of that, and so they’re going to predominantly Black institutions. So I think that the University has changed, and I’m doing the interview with you now because I think our history is significant, and persons on campus realize that, and they are trying to fill the gap that has existed. So I think things has changed—I don’t think, I know it has changed—and I think that we are seeing more people that want to be a part of the University of Florida because it’s not what it was. I was surprised this year that I think I talked to ten person who works that the library, but I found that they were not graduates of the library. And hopefully that will change over the years, that we would have people that have finished University of Florida, who can find employment here, and they could be in jobs that are not skilled jobs, or in professional jobs, and I think that is going to begin to take place.

	W:	Now, what do you think needs to happen to get those numbers to jump from 2500 to five thousand?

	B:	I don’t know. The way the question was asked, I think recruitment has to be improved, but I think it’s going to take a special kind of student to come here to see that they can be here and be successful. And I think the more programs we have, that would happen. And I think it’s just going to take more effort than it has been. At one point, it was a major effort. Then it became sort of like, minor, but I think we are going to see a cycle





turnaround, and it’s going to improve in the future. There are more students that were here than when I was here, and there are less now, but they are from different cultures. I think I heard one time we had more persons that were from the islands on campus.

But I think it’s going to have to be when the word is out that the University of Florida is not the hostile campus that you can perceive, you need to come and be a part of it. You can be successful here, if that’s your focus, and come and partake of the activities. Get involved. And I think that you will find that people will eventually begin to do that.

W:  Do you think that there’s any important events that have happened over the years to further the race relations on campus, that just get overlooked, and people just really don’t view them as important as they really are?

	B:	Yes, I think they don’t realize that we have a person of color in the University Relations Office; that’s a significant job. And we have had assistant deans on campus who retired. I think those persons’ positions need to be replaced with another person of color. And I think that we think that we don’t need to talk about bringing more people of color on campus. I think that’s going to have to change, and begin to deal with that issue more because we are getting less few here, and there are less people coming on campus getting jobs in that area. So I thinks it’s going to take a major effort from the administration to begin to discuss work and hire persons in key positions to help with recruitment for students on campus, and then also do job hiring outside of the skilled workers.

W:  So you believe that if more African Americans were hired to do different positions, and they became more predominant role in the University, you think that would help to get more African American students to come here?





	B:	I think so.



	W:	Is there anything else that you would like to add that I haven’t added?



	B:	I’m very pleased to be able to do this oral history for you, and I think the thing that is very significant: I took a class in oral history under the person who developed the oral history department, which was Dr. Sam Proctor. And he started the program, and I think I was one of his first students that did oral histories. Because something he said one day that he didn’t have but one of color, and there was nothing for them to say. And I did three, and brought them in to him, and he was surprised that they were people of color, and that spoke like he spoke, and they did not use a lot of substandard language. And I’m glad to see that the new director of the oral history department is opening up and venturing out more than has been done before, and I think that when people realize that he is out doing things in the community, and when they go to more programs that are sponsored by programs like the Oral History Program—when they had the open forum at the Smathers Library and brought back some former students—I think that will be very encouraging to the community to see what people have done on campus, where they are now, and where they are going. And I think when people read about people like Judge Mickle—who is a Federal Judge, and who is moving up to be the head of his circuit—was one of the first graduates of the University of Florida. And he talked about, yes, he was the only one in his class; yes, he graduated undergrad in law school; but he was able to do it, that you could do it as well. So I think we they begin to see those few that did come here, and have gone out, and made a major impact on society, you’ll have more come. And when people like the department that you are in,





the oral history department, do more outreach programs, I think it’s very encouraging to the community.

	W:	Now, what was it like taking a class with Samuel Proctor?



	B:	All I remember is, it was a class, and it was like all the classes I’ve been in: I was the only person of color. My undergrad years here, I’d never had a person of color in class with me, and didn’t have any in the graduate program. So at this point, I pretty much was the only one. But I think I was the only one in Dr. Proctor’s class. But then, it really never dawned on me that I was the only one. I was there to do a job, and I was getting the job done, so that was the most important thing. But I think students now do have one or two students in their classes that they see, unless you’re taking an unusual subject, and then you could might be the only one.

	W:	Now back when you were received your first degree, do you know about how many other African Americans there were on campus?

	B:	It was during the early [19]70s, and the major walkout was in [19]71. And if I recall correctly, I think that year, or within the first two or three years of the [19]70s, there were 200 of us that graduated. And it’s gone up to as many as more than 400. And when we have our Afro-American Alumni Association, the tendency of those students who came here, to come back, is significant. This year, February, we recognized the first African Americans who graduated from the colleges, and we recognized, I think, sixteen students, who finished from I think sixteen different programs here. They were the only one, but now in most of those programs there are at least two or three. So we are becoming enrolled. To some people, it might not be a large number, but, because the students are here, and they are graduating, and they are talking about the positive





environment they had here, that’s very good for the University of Florida. That sends a message.

	W:	When you were here, was there any problems on campus with race relations?



	B:	I don’t remember right now then, because the only thing I remember doing—I lived off campus for the first year and a half, and then I moved down from Tigert in an apartment complex. I came on campus for my classes, I attended classes, and I left campus. I worked at the President’s home. I worked for Steven C. O’Connell, and President E. T. York, and Dr. Robert Marston. And I did flowers at the President’s mansion, and I went to many of the social events on campus. So I got involved, and I would pretty much— many times was the only one there, but there were other ones that came. And I feel that if you come here, and if you want to sit and just go to classes, that’s what you can do.

But if you come here and want to get involved, I think all you have to do is simply show the interest that you have, and be sincere with that. The opportunities will come to you, and then you just have to fulfill them.

	W:	I agree with that 100 percent. B:	Yes, very much so.

	W:	There’s so much here for students, absolutely. B:	Yes, yes.

	W:	Well, thank you so much for sitting down today. It’s definitely going to help, and I know it’ll definitely help people in the future.

	B:	Thank you for asking me, and I’m very pleased to do this oral history. And I would encourage anyone to come and be a Gator. It’s good to be a Florida Gator. Thank you for having me this morning.





	W:	Absolutely, thank you. B:	I enjoyed it.

[End of recording]





	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, July 21, 2015 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019