AAHP 001; Williams; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 001 Rosa Williams

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Steve Davis on April 28, 2009 42 minutes | 23 pages



Abstract: In this interview, former Gainesville Women for Equal Rights (GWER) member Rosa B. Williams goes into depth of her life experiences in the Civil Rights Movement in Gainesville, Florida. She extends on the many activities she was involved in GWER and the programs she helped create to desegregate Gainesville. Mrs.

Williams explains the difficulty that certain cities like Palatka and Saint Augustine represented to the Civil Rights movement and how GWER helped overcome them. Additionally, she explains how Gainesville demographics worked during the Civil Rights movement and how post-integration the African American community became displaced around Gainesville. Finally, Mrs. Williams explains the difference she perceives in American society from the Civil Rights Movement to contemporary times, and her thoughts on Barack Obama’s election.





Keywords: [African American History; Civil Rights Movement; Alachua County]











































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 001

Interviewee: Rosa B. Williams Interviewer: Steve Davis Date: April 28, 2009



	D:	It’s Tuesday April 28, 2009. I’m Steve Davis, and I’m speaking with Rosa B. Williams. Ms. Williams, could you tell us a little bit about where you grew up?

	W:	Gainesville, Florida, until I was about eight years old, and my family moved to Bronson, Florida, but I was back over here on the weekends.

	D:	When were you born?



	W:	1933. I was born in Starke.



	D:	How did you become involved in politics?



	W:	I was working for a lady named Jane Storey, at that time babysitting for her, and she got me to join the Alachua County Democrat Club. And I did that. And from there on, I went to looking at lots of things there in the community, and I wanted to be involved, and, try to make things better for the Black community, doing things.

	D:	Which year did you start to get involved in all these activities?



	W:	Now, that’s a good question. It was in the fifties, I can’t tell you what year. D:	When did you become involved in desegregation efforts in Gainesville?

	W:	When it first began.



	D:	How did you become involved with GWER?



	W:	We was involved with desegregation in Gainesville, Florida, and a lots of those ladies was involved in that, also, with us down in the community. And they decided that we needed to form an organization, and they did. All of them was White. We had problems with all of the agencies here, the Boys and Girls Club, school board, and all. So these women’s formed a organization; they sat down





among Jean Chalmers, Joan Henry, who’s dead, and a bunch of them, and decided what they wanted to do. And then they asked Blacks to join that organization.

	D:	And how were you asked through—



	W:	Jean Chalmers was the first one who asked me. D:	Okay. And how did she know you?

	W:	From the Civil Rights movement days. We was working together on the Civil Rights movement. We had been together for a long time.

	D:	And what were some of the first activities that you worked on? W:	The Gainesville Boys and Girls Club.

	D:	And what was the situation with the Boys and Girls Club?



	W:	They had it separated out with the Blacks—they was back on the east side of town, and they didn’t have the same program that they had up on… they was up on the corner of 8th avenue and Waldo Road, and we didn’t have the same kinds of programs. We didn’t hardly have any programs at all. So, we kept at them until they finally integrated it. The Blacks could go up there to that club; but it was sitting almost right there in the Black community.

	D:	What sorts of strategies did you use to?



	W:	We kept messing with the meetings with the [inaudible 3:27], and the board of directors at the Boys’ club. And we kept hitting on them, and we started carving their funding what they was getting, like the United Way and all.

	D:	And what sort of tipped the balance? What made them change? W:	I think they got tired of us coming up there.





	D:	Really? Were there any tensions within GWER, between members?



	W:	No. The only tension there was at that time, uh, some of the Blacks which was school teachers did not feel like—myself and Barbara Higgins, who’s dead now— should have been asked first to come. Because at that time, if you was a Black and a schoolteacher or something, you didn’t mess around with nobody else. So the tension in there was that some of those teachers did not like the strong coalition that we had with the White womens.

	D:	Were you involved with desegregating schools at all?



	W:	Yes. But I was not attending, you know, going to one. Other groups was doing that. Each group had their own area. What they did was, if we had to picket, we went out there to do that. But the other groups, the education part group, was working on that part of it. Like when Joseph [Joel] Buchanan and all them was going, and Reverend Wright’s daughter.

	D:	Which areas did you work on?



	W:	The office at the 5th Avenue area, and all over town, we picketed all over town. We went to Ocala, we went to Palatka, everywhere we did. And went in different places to try to get served.

	D:	What were some of the pickets like outside of Gainesville? W:	You mean in other cities?

	D:	Yeah.



	W:	It wasn’t… The policemen wasn’t quite as good as the ones about this here was, you know. But they would’ve jumped on us or anything like that. Some areas we





could not go in. If we went in, we could not be open about it, because the peoples down there was scared for us and then scared for themselves.

	D:	What were some of the more difficult communities to work in?



	W:	I really think it was St. Augustine and Palatka at that time. They tried to get us to go to Pensacola, but we said, “Oh, no.” We wouldn’t go down in that area.

	D:	Now why was that?



	W:	Because things down there was too dangerous.



	D:	Did you run any personal risks for your involvement in GWER? Did you lose any jobs or anything like that?

	W:	No, because at that time there was a lady who I was working with; she was very supportive of it. And the community was very supportive of it. I was not scared or anything. I got a lots of phone calls, but after one or two phone calls, then I really laid an old-fashioned cussing on them. They didn’t called me no more, you know because I say then what’s going to happen is going to happen.

	D:	Did you discuss different types of tactics? I know GWER used mainly several protests and petitions.

	W:	We did that. We would have meetings and things to discuss what we was going to do, and who was going to do this. It’s like Jean Chalmers, when our duty was, um… I would go in and apply for a job somewhere, and they would tell me, “No.” And then ten or fifteen minutes later, Jean Chalmers would go in, see what they would say. And then we would go to different restaurants and see if they would serve. And one downtown was the funniest one. The man told Jean he had to serve me, but he damn sure wouldn’t serve her, because she was White.





	D:	So then—because she had brought you in. W:	Well, we came in together.

	D:	Yeah.



	W:	But we did things like that.



	D:	What were some of the more difficult public accommodations to desegregate in Gainesville?

	W:	All of ‘em.



	D:	Really?



	W:	Mm-hm.



	D:	Can you paint a picture for future historians—what kinds of things were segregated in Gainesville.

	W:	It was—at that time, it was the five-and-ten-cent stores, was the bathroom issues, and the cafeterias and things, eating places. And the bathrooms, Black and White, and the water fountains, Black and White.

	D:	How did GWER make decisions about what they were going to do. Was it a vote?

	W:	We’d sit down at a meeting, and the peoples voted on the most pressing one.



What they’d feel we need to be working on first.



	D:	When did GWER become involved in political campaigns?



	W:	Now, you have to ask someone else. I can’t—that’s a long time back, because I was not a member when they first started.

	D:	Ah, I see. When did you join?



	W:	That’s a long time back, because… [laughter]





	D:	[Laughter] Oh, okay.



	W:	Maybe somebody have some records of all of that, some of them ladies what kept records. Because I know they had secretaries.

	D:	Could you talk about Byron Winn’s election? [Byron Winn Jr. was elected mayor of Gainesville in 1963; see 1977 interview of him by Joyce Miller.]

	W:	Yeah, he was very supportive of the Civil Rights Movement, and he offered to integrate his café downtown first [presumably the Primrose Inn & Grill, which had been in the Winn family since 1924]. And of course the White bigots’ community did not like that, not one bit. And some of them told him that if they did, that they would lose their business and all, and he wouldn’t have any business downtown from the business community. He did integrate, and his business did go down.

But he also ran for a city commission seat. And by us getting out, getting people to vote, he won. But he was very helpful to us, working with us, but he lost his business. Because we didn’t have money to go downtown, you know, and patronize his restaurant. You know, we maybe could go—some of them could probably go about once a week, but at that time, I didn’t have money to go down there. But he was very supportive of us, working in the Black community, coming out to all our meetings. We used to meet down there at the Masonic hall quite a bit, and he would always be there.

	D:	Who were some other people who helped support the cause who might not get mentioned?

	W:	You mean White? D:	Anybody.





	W:	Thomas Cabot was very much involved—or do you mean the live ones? Peoples who was alive?

	D:	Yeah, sure.



	W:	Thomas Cabot was very much involved in it. Um… Reverend C.J. Johnson, and Reverend T.A. Wright. And Essie Lee Pecos… I’m trying to think of the ones who’s alive. And… Clara Griffin. That’s about the only ones who’s still alive.

	D:	GWER had a—



	W:	Oh, and Janie Williams, she lives over here. But she joined much later, you know.

	D:	GWER had a pretty impressive list of partnerships with other organizations. W:	Uh-huh.

	D:	I have the League of Women Voters, SCLC, CORE, Student Group for Equal Rights, ACLU, NAACP, Council on Human Relations… What made these partnerships so successful?

	W:	Because at that time, there was something what we all committed to be working on. I was the first Black person to get a library card. It taken me about three or four months for them to give me the library card. And if you needed help, just like now, everybody would go to that pull stand off the Red Cross, on Waldo Road.

But at that time, they had it working out Blacks could not go here to this place; they had a certain place set up where Blacks could go. If Blacks needed clothes or something, they could not go here; to get the bigger picture where they give out clothes, they had a little place set up over here. So everybody seen that Blacks was really being discriminated against bad. So that’s why come





everybody joined together. And with a group of peoples, different organizations, when they combine together to work together, then you get a lot of success in that part, because everybody is working on something. We may not be working on the same plane, but everybody is working on a different area. When it all come together, it’s for the benefit of the whole cause.

	D:	What was the most successful partnership in your opinion, between another organization and GWER?

	W:	Everybody meeting together at Old Mark Common Baptist Church every night, and deciding what area needed to be picked or what area needed to be worked on, and we would go from there. Every night, we met. And then they decided they wanted to integrate Turkey Creek Golf and Country Club. They had to use a guinea pig, and I said there that I didn’t think they was going to take no Blacks out there. Well, they accepted me in, and that was a problem because I didn’t want to go, so I only stayed with them about three or four months.

	D:	Really?



	W:	Uh-huh



	D:	What was it like?



	W:	It was something of the way it was an all-White place, you know, and Blacks, when we went, they looked at you kind of funny. I could take one other person with me. You know, they’d look at you kind of funny. I didn’t want to be there, but they just wanted to see whether they’d take Blacks in, because they was getting some kind of federal money.





	D:	Was it difficult to be the sort of test person for a lot of these different organizations and facilities?

	W:	No.



	D:	No?



	W:	Unh-uh. And the school board, when Head Start first started, that one was, um… It was discrimination a lot against Blacks a long time ago, and we’d file a suit against that, got that stopped. And when they started back up, they did it like they was supposed to.

	D:	What sort of discrimination was there with Head Start?



	W:	They was supposed to be taking all of the students, but they was asking the Black parents more questions and things than they was doing the White parents. At that time, we thought they was trying to make sure that they got in White kids, and very few Blacks. And we pointed that out. Then, we decided that we wanted to integrate Gold Head State Park. And a bunch of us, White and Black kids, went down there one Sunday. The policemen followed us all the way down there. They stayed down there. We wasn’t worried, now. Because we knew that when all the Whites seen us coming, Black and White, they would leave. So we had the whole place by ourselves.

	D:	In what ways did the police interfere with your efforts in Gainesville?



	W:	They did not interfere with the Blacks, but the White students from the University of Florida, they tried to run them back off of 5th Avenue so they wouldn’t come down to the meeting. They arrested some White students, you know, for nothing. One White student, they finally arrested her—parents was some rich parents in





Miami, and they filed a big suit against the Gainesville Police Department, and that stopped that.

	D:	Were there police abuses in the Black community at all? W:	Yeah, during that time, yes.

	D:	What sort of things were going on?



	W:	They would push peoples around, and hit peoples, you know, or arrest them for no reason at all. Some of that’s still going on, but it’s gone undercover; you have to find it.

	D:	To what degree do you think GWER got involved in economic issues?



W:  A lots, because they finally got a grant to do some programs to help the kids out, they was involved a lots in that part of it. The whole thing was an economic thing also all that was tied into it.

D:  Were you involved with Best Day of the Week? W:  Yes.

	D:	Could you tell us a little bit about that program?



W:  That was an education program what GWER had, I think. And they headed out to—let me remember it right, it was Lincoln… old Lincoln Middle School, I think that’s where they made that when they’d have students come in. They did—the part I know, they did tutorial working, working with the parents and all.

	D:	From what I read, it seemed like they were trying to get Black students and White students to mix together socially. Was that successful?

	W:	Yes, with the parents who wanted to, um, a great group of them… See, P.K. Yonge have always did that. They had a loss of P.K. Yonge White students at





that time. But P.K. has always did that. This lady I was working for who got me started in all of this, her children went to P.K., and all this time they Black and White kids could have social things together, or some of the White parents would have things at their house, and let them all socialize together. I think there’s probably a loss of that originated. Also, because if the grown people stayed out of their business, the kids got along fine, there wasn’t no problem.

	D:	Do you think that desegregation is a kind of a generational process, that each generation gets more mixed? Or do you see less progress?

	W:	I think it’s less progress. I think after the [19]70s, when peoples got new jobs, or what they would be able to buy in homes, and move over, as we call it, ‘cross 13th Street, everybody just got kind of laid back. We don’t have the support, we need a lots of support still; I think we have gone backwards some. I really do.

	D:	What do you think would allow progress to continue?



	W:	If the people relies like we did in the [19]50s, [19]60s, and [19]70s, there was still a lots of work out there, and we need to get out there and support more. We have programs going on now with young peoples, boys and girls, Black on Black crime task forces with the police department, and Reichert House. We have a hard time getting the churches involved. A long time ago, that was one of the bases, you know, when we had the church support. But everybody so into their own thing now, their own church, they just don’t want to be bothered to work together. I keep saying personally we need someone to come and really wake them up, because we are losing a lots of young peoples, male and female, and we just need to be more together. The Civil Rights Movement, we was together.





But now, you know… As I said, they’re making a few more dollars, and everybody got their own thing.

	D:	What was your proudest moment as a member of GWER?



	W:	To really see peoples working together, White and Black, old and young. It was something like the last president, Obama’s, campaign, and I thought about that when I was down there, holding up a sign on election day. I had not seen that, peoples Black and White, young and old—peoples working together—since the Civil Right Movement, and that was my proudest moment was to see peoples out there working for the same cause. And I learned a lots during that time, because I thought only Blacks was poor. But I didn’t know we had a lots of poor White people also, who needed help. But it taught me a lesson about people, senior citizens and children, and myself; it changed my whole thinking, that I never would forget.

	D:	To what extent was welfare in Gainesville segregated? W:	Welfare? What do you mean about welfare?

	D:	Like, uh, aid to poor families. Was it segregated?



W:  Yeah, that was one of the things. But we—that was what I was talking about with the clothes and things. See, they had a big office where Whites could go sign up for food, or if they needed clothes get clothes, help finding somewhere to live.

The center what name is the Rosa B. Williams Center now, over on 1st Street?



	D:	Yeah.



	W:	They had one little room, with everything in it. They had one day a week on which poor Black peoples could go down there and apply. And it probably take





you all day long. And we got there what the White peoples picked over, the clothes, what they did not want. And the food was hardly nothing, but, so, we worked on that part also.

	D:	How long did it take to change that? W:	About five or six years.

	D:	And what ways did you, what methods did you use to put pressure on the—



	W:	We just went to the peoples who was always sending it down there, the United Way and all. When the United Way used to have board meetings on the annual membership day, everybody who paid a dollar was a member. So what we did, one day, a bunch of us went up there—Jean Chalmers, a bunch of us. And we all paid. So, they’d nominated me, and I won, on the United Way board. So by me being on that board, that had a lot of that support, we got that changed.

	D:	Could we talk about the hospitals in Gainesville? What the situation was like, and how they changed?

	W:	Alachua General Hospital, they had one part integrated, Black peoples patients, they could not go—they had one area. That was where Black peoples went; they never went in the whole core part of the hospital. And the doctors wasn’t allowed to practice, any time that they had any. When doctor Banks first came here, and that big part, the whole part, was separated for a long time. [Cullen Banks was a Black doctor who came to Gainesville in the 1960s—see AAHP 251, interview with LaKay Banks.]

	D:	So Black doctors were not allowed to practice in?—





	W:	Not in the whole hospital. They was allowed to practice in the part we was at.



And then that changed, you know.



	D:	Some of the other people I interviewed with GWER mentioned that the dentists were also not, uh—

	W:	Yeah. Doctor Cosby, yeah. Because at that time, we had one medical doctor, and one dentist, and that was Dr. Cosby, which is it. But he was very, very active in the Civil Rights Movement, and Dr. Banks, who’s a medical now, with Alzheimer’s real bad.

	D:	Can we talk a little bit about voter registration? Were you involved in any of the campaigns, involved in that, and how did that process work, and what was—

	W:	We used to, um, what happened in that day… About a week before the election, a group of us would take off from work, and we would really hit the areas. Al Daniels, who is dead now, his house was the setup. But we would report back there what was going on. And we also would ask people did they need a ride to the poll, or did they need someone to keep kids. All that information we wrote down. And on election day, we would have people set up. If they had phones, to make phone calls to people to go to some houses that did have phones, to remind them to go vote. A lots of peoples would take off from work, what had transportation at that time also, to take peoples in. And those people, when they arrived at the poll, we would take them. We had a hard time with the voters’ registration office at first, for the peoples who could not read or write getting someone to go into the poll with them, but we finally worked it out. But on election day we had bull horns, and all around in the community, asking peoples





to go out to vote. And if they needed someone to stay with some sick person, some family, well some of us did that also.

	D:	How much did voter registration increase as a result of these efforts?



	W:	It increased a lot, quite a bit. In an area like Lincoln Estate—you know where that is, don’t you?

	D:	Yeah.



	W:	Well that had the biggest voting bloc, so we would really work that area really, really hard.

	D:	Really?



	W:	To make sure we got everybody out there. We’d target certain areas which had a big Black voter [population] in it.

	D:	Did you have any sense for percentages, how many people were voting?



	W:	No, but we got most all of them out there. It would be a great deal, a big turnout. D:	Do you remember Cora Roberson’s campaign?

	W:	Uh-huh.



	D:	Did you work on that campaign? W:	Yes, uh-huh.

	D:	What was that like?



	W:	It was a really, really, super good campaign, but she lost. And I think I know a little bit why come she lost. This is my interpretation, and there’s a bunch of them. She was a schoolteacher. And at that time, some Black schoolteacher would snub their nose at other peoples back in their community. And I think some of the Blacks just say, “Well, to hell with that,” you know, and they wasn’t going to





go vote. And I think that had a lots to do with her losing. Because she got a great deal of White support voters, but she did not get the Black community’s support.

	D:	What were some of the other campaigns? I know you were involved with the gubernatorial campaigns and presidential campaigns.

	W:	And in the city commission campaigns, the peoples who ran who I thought maybe I wanted to work for.

	D:	And I know a number of politicians have been to your home. Could you name a few of those for us?

	W:	Jimmy Carter, he was there… Bob Graham, he was there. You want big ones, huh? That’s going back. But the local ones, round here, and the state ones, all of them was always saying that we had barbeque. But the Washington ones was Jimmy Carter, Bob Graham, and Bill Nelson.

	D:	What do you enjoy most about working in politics?



	W:	Meeting peoples. I like going door to door, knocking on doors, getting peoples out that were… I had not did it in a long time, you know, just going really out, taking off from work, until Obama’s campaign. But I like that.

	D:	Could you talk a little bit more about your work on the Obama campaign, and what were the issues of Gainesville relating to that?

	W:	I just told people that I thought he was a chance to maybe start getting their country back in shape, and we all needed to put on our tennis shoes. And we get back out there and go door-to-door, and when peoples get out to vote on election day, do what we did before a long time ago, you know? Make sure peoples went and voted. People what didn’t have a ride, we’d go out there, and we went to the





nursing home, and got absentee ballots for the people who was shut in in the hospital, we got absentee ballots, and we just started to work on there.

	D:	What do you think makes him such a successful politician? W:	Who, Obama?

	D:	Yeah.



	W:	I think because, you know, the economy, what has been going on, and peoples now losing their jobs like [inaudible 28:50], I think he’s very attractive to the younger peoples also, and he just… peoples have been going through so much, and losing so much, that they was just ready for a change. And I think by him being able to mobilize the way he did himself, so many peoples, White and Black—especially the young people. And people seeing these young peoples now, but I think a lots of the older peoples got out, too.

	D:	After the election of Barack Obama, there was a lot of talk in the media about America entering a post-racial era. To what extent do you think that era is upon us, and, more importantly, what should be on the agenda of Civil Rights activists in the 21st century?

	W:	I don’t think that Obama—If I’m understanding your question as it is—was so much… in the country, what has to be dealt with, now… I don’t think we should look too much until he take care of people’s lives’ economic part. I don’t think he should be looking at too much as trying to focus on. Not saying he shouldn’t. On the racial issues, I think that racial issues will come along when people start getting… I may not be answering your question right.

	D:	No that is right.





	W:	The jobs and things… are losing their homes, because I would much rather see him save a person home here than be over here messing with a racial issue right now. Because I think the peoples need to meet him halfway. He can’t do the racial issues; he can’t do nothing by himself, and I can’t sit here and complain about the racial issue when I’m not out there helping him get to that point. And I think now he has more in economics to be focusing on—what he should be on— other than a racial issue that something is they want him to get on. Yeah, the racial issue can be taken care of. But to me, his doing things out there, and when you lose a house, or job, or don’t have insurance, you can’t feed your kids, you know, that’s racial also.

	D:	Uh-huh.



	W:	Now, I might not have answered that like you wanted it.



	D:	No, you hit it right on the—no, that was perfect. There’s been a recent economic downturn; I was wondering, what are your perceptions on how that downturn has affected the Gainesville community?

	W:	It’s affecting it really bad because there’s a lots of peoples around here, uh… Did you read my letter—what I had in the paper about a week ago? You know, when the police officers were throwing eggs over in Porter’s [Quarters]? So, you didn’t read about that? [See letter to the editor in Tuesday, April 21, 2009 edition of The Gainesville Sun; further context in article “Chief Blasts Officers’ Actions” from Friday, April 10, 2009.]

	D:	No, I didn’t.





	W:	Okay. Well anyway, the economic current here in Gainesville has affected a lots of people—a lots of peoples have lost their jobs. And when you lose your job, your health insurance is tied up in that—they don’t have health insurance. They have families what they have to pay; they lost their homes or something. We have peoples right here what have been caught up into losing their homes, or they can’t pay their rent because they bought a house depending on two people’s paycheck. One of them lose their paycheck, well, then they don’t have it. That economic, that have hit here in Gainesville really hard. A lot of Whites out there, they have more peoples now out there getting what need… In order to get food stamps, you have to also volunteer that come through a lot of waste, so… The Gainesville Library downtown, they spend half of their time now helping peoples what come in only to go on the computer, show them how to go on there to look for jobs. So, they got really hit here, really hard. But a lots of the people, who’ve got money in their pocket, who don’t have to worry about meal-to-meal everyday living, they don’t see that. They’re not even thinking about that. But Gainesville is hurting.

	D:	To what extent do state services meet the need?



	W:	They doing all they can, what with the budget cuts. That’s where all we were; by Tallahassee, those peoples up there, they should throw them all out of office.

They’re not thinking about really poor peoples. If they was, they wouldn’t be tossing Medicaid and things, you know? If they keep cutting up there, a lots of these hospitals around here is not going to be able to do hardly anything to take the Medicaid patients what they need to take in. You know, a lots of things that’s





going on. And the state around here, you know, I have complained about them in the past. But they don’t have the resources to do hardly anything. Tacachale here, where I work at, we are hurting for staff peoples and we can’t do no hiring. These peoples here who work right here don’t have days off in the week, you know? And that’s because they don’t have the money, they can’t do no hiring.

And the people who do something wrong and get terminated, or they quit or get sick, we can’t hire nobody else. So who going take care of these peoples here?

	D:	Can you talk a little bit more about your work at Tacachale?



	W:	Yeah, uh, I’m the volunteer coordinator here, which I get volunteers from the University of Florida, Santa Fe, or from the community, to come out here to do activities or to do certain programs. We have a lots of interns here who do their intern work here, you know, in health-related social service. Or some of them just come here to work with some of our residents here. And I get peoples to come inside here and do different programs with them, and I coordinate a lots of their off-campus trips, especially if they’re going to the Hippodrome or the Performing Arts Center, those different things.

	D:	What’s the most rewarding aspect of this work?



	W:	To see the peoples that be able to go out off campus and have a nice time, because when I first started here, Tacachale was just like bad news to the community. But it was not Tacachale; it was just that the peoples did not understand handicapped people. We have peoples here who, you know, you wouldn’t even think they was residents here. Because they’re high-level, real





high-level, but some of them was put here a long time ago and they should not never have been put here.

	D:	I have a question about GWER again. One of those things that strikes me about GWER is that it was a woman’s—specifically a woman’s organization.

	W:	Mm-hm.



	D:	How did your work with GWER influence your thinking on feminism and women’s issues?

	W:	That thing worked out really, really fine. We didn’t have—I think all their husbands supported it. We didn’t have any problems or nothing we know of. I think it worked out really fine. If anyone had a family and what needed some help, you know, we was right there to help them. The issue back then, um… I think it was because during that time, you didn’t have all this husbands and wives separating, or had a whole bunch of family or domestic violence, you didn’t have all that then. And I think that’s where everybody kind of looked after each other, you know, just like… But now, in my neighborhood, if you don’t make an effort, you don’t know hardly anyone in your neighborhood. But during the Civil Rights Movement and GWER, on my street, everybody knew each other, everybody checked up on each other; if they didn’t see them for a day or two, they would go around there. And then if someone was having some problems, with the children or someone needed something, we knew this, and we just would go ahead on and do it, or the churches would do it.

	D:	Why did that change?





	W:	I think it changed at a time when I said that people began to get better jobs or something, or they thought because we could go and eat downtown, or sleep in a motel, or get a new car—that’s just my words but—everything got all right, and we forgot about everybody else.

	D:	How has Gainesville changed, and how has it remained the same, since the-



	W:	How Gainesville has changed? It has changed from the better to the worse as far as I’m concerned, taking care and looking at— taking care of peoples and helping people. You still have peoples here what would do it, but it’s not like we’ve had a coalition come along all the time like that.

	D:	Is there anything that you regret not working on, or anything that you’d change about your activism?

	W:	The only thing that I regret that I really have a feeling for is, I can’t understand why come the community, the churches and all, won’t pull together like we used to do a long, long time ago. And I can’t understand that. And Tony Jones and I have talked about this, and we decided that we were not bothering, let’s just let them go.

	D:	Rosa, it strikes me that you’ve devoted your entire life to helping people. Why did you make that choice?

	W:	Because I came up really poor, and peoples had to have my family’s, um… My father left my mother when I was about three days old, and then my Auntie came to Starke and brought us over here. And a lots of nice people at the [inaudible 38:46] didn’t know where the next meal was coming from, and my mother and her two sisters worked in White houses, and they would always bring us food





home. And I came up really poor, and then during that time, I found out, a loaf of white bread would cost about five cents, and some of the people would go to the store for some senior citizens and tell them it cost fifteen or twenty cents. They was cheating. So, I came up poor, and I decided I would devote my whole life, you know, to doing this.

	D:	What’s been the most rewarding aspect? W:	Helping people, senior citizens and kids.

	D:	I’d like to end this by just opening this up to you. Is there anything else that you think we should talk about that we haven’t mentioned?

	W:	Unh-uh.



	D:	No? Just briefly, do you know a list of people in the area who might be interested in doing a similar interview, basically related to Civil Rights, or—?

	W:	Doing a—talking to you, you mean? D:	Yeah, yeah.

	W:	Clara Griffin. And her number is…



[offers contact info and several more names]



	D:	Well, unless there’s anything else, I’d like to thank you very much for taking the time out.

	W:	Okay.



	D:	Thanks. [End of interview]

	Audit edited by:	Anna Jimenez, July 8, 2013 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 14, 2019