AAHP 691; Wilson; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 691 Maggie Wilson 7-8-2019



Interviewed by Marcus Chatfield and Teniade Broughton on 7-8-2019 37 Pages

Abstract:

Keywords: [African American History; Segregation; Pensacola, Florida; Florida A&M]



AAHP 691

Interviewee: Maggie Wilson

Interviewer: Marcus Chattfield and Teniade Broughton Date: July 8, 2019



	C:	Today is Monday, July the 8th, and we’re at the old Sacred Heart Hospital in Pensacola, Florida. My name is Marcus Chattfield with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program, and I am here today with…

	W:	Maggie Polkinghorne Wilson.



	C:	And Ms. Wilson, would you mind spending your middle name for the transcriber? W:	P-O-L-K-I-N-G-H-O-R-N-E.

	C:	Thank you so much. And Ms. Wilson, were you born here in Pensacola? W:	Yes I was.

	C:	And what year was that? W:	1934.

	C:	So things were different back then. And did you spend your childhood here in Pensacola as well?

	W:	Yes, I was here until I went to college when I was sixteen years old, in 1950. C:	And where did you go to college?

	W:	Florida A&M in Tallahassee.



	C:	Okay. So, we’re here at the Sacred Heart Hospital. Where did you live in relation to here? Where did you grow up?





W:  On the – I guess they call it now the Belmont, the villas section. I was one street over from the villas, on the corner of Ruth and Jackson. And it’s not too far from here.

C:   And what elementary school did you go to?



	W:	I went to L.A. Curtsey, first through third grade, then fourth through sixth I was at John A. Gibson School, and then from seventh through twelfth, I was at the old Booker T. Washington, it was on the corner of Ian and – I’ve forgotten what the other street is. But at that time that was the only school for Black children.

	C:	Okay.



	W:	It made a move across town, but I went there from seventh through twelfth grade. C:	And what was your experience like there? Was it a good experience there?

	W:	Oh, yeah. Yes. I enjoyed my schooldays. We had a lot of activities. It was I guess quite different from school now. At that time, we had kids from all over the city, cause that was the only school other than, I think – I don’t know if they had a school in Cantona or not. But all of the Black children from all over the city came there. In fact they used to – at that time, kids used to walk to school from long distances. I think the ones who lived in Warrington had a bus, but other than that, most of them walked. And that was just the way it was.

	C:	Did the White kids walk?



	W:	No, at that time, the Pensacola High School was about five or six blocks from my house, on Jackson Street, and I used to see the school bus passing by my house





taking them to school. That was something else. I don’t know where the buses came from, but I used to see the buses quite often. And I know a lot of my friends lived on what we called the east side of town, and they would walk many, many blocks to get to school. And they came. It was just the way it was then. I just think about how I used to see all those school buses pass by.

	C:	What were some of your favorite things about going to school at Booker T. Washington?

	W:	I don’t know whether you’d call it favorite thing, but I guess because we knew everybody, the friendship, and everybody knew my family. It was just – the whole thing was just enjoyable because – I don’t know. I was never active in a lot of extracurricular activities because my father had a small store that I and to go home after school and tend to the store, but while I was there, I enjoyed the friendship of all my friends. I can’t remember whether I was involved in any activities at school or not. I wasn’t very active.

	C:	Did you like the academics? Did you like the studies?



	W:	Yes I did. As a matter of fact my homeroom teacher for my – I think it was tenth, eleventh, and twelfth grade – was Ms. Lillie Frazier, and she was Chappie James’s sister. She taught English, and my background in English came from her instruction. And she was also a member of my church.

	C:	And what church was that?



	W:	Allen Chapel AME church. It’s the same one that Tony is a member of. I used to enjoy her classes. She made it enjoyable, the way she talked.





	C:	What kind of things would she do to make it enjoyable?



	W:	You’re talking about so many years. I can’t remember. [laughter] I just remember that I enjoyed it.

	C:	And so you said your background was in English? Did you study English in college?

	W:	No. I was an elementary education major in college. C:	And where was that?

	W:	Florida A&M.



	C:	That’s what I thought you said.



	W:	And my oldest sister went to Florida A&M, and she eventually for her master’s there. Actually she taught for so many years. And another sister went there for two or three years, and then later she came here and finished at University of West Florida. My brother went there too before he became a Tuskegee airman.

	C:	Wow, that’s impressive.



	W:	In fact my brother, James Polkinghorne, they named Polkinghorne village after him in Tallahassee.

	C:	And what was is name?



	W:	James Polkinghorne. I think he was a first student there who lost is life. He was missing in action in 1944. And they built this village, housing place, and they





named it after him, Polkinghorne Village. It was there for a number of years, and I understand it has been torn down now.

	C:	What was your experience like in Florida A&M?



	W:	It was something else. I was so young when I first went – I was sixteen. I was sixteen when I finished high school. That was my first time being away from home, and it was something else. But, at that time, I think there were maybe a dozen of us from Pensacola who went there. And during that time, we rode the train to Tallahassee. We would all be on the train together. So, that made it better. It wasn’t as frightening. But I enjoyed those years.

	C:	How did you get to be finishing high school by sixteen?



	W:	I must have started at four. I didn’t skip any grades or anything. I guess they weren’t as strict about it there. But I made it, sixteen. And most of my other classmates were seventeen, eighteen. I don’t know if anybody else there was sixteen.

	C:	That’s quite a big change!



	W:	And for childhood, never been anywhere, it was really something. So I was fortunate that there were so many from Pensacola. It helped. It helped me to adjust.

	C:	Yeah. At what point did you know you wanted to be a teacher?



	W:	I didn’t when I first went to school. I didn’t know what I wanted to do. I don’t know what made me select elementary education. But I guess for the first couple of





years I really didn’t know. Here is a sixteen year old child, what does a sixteen your old know? But fortunately, the first year or two is basic. English, math, whatever. And I guess I just decided after I was there. That I’m ready to become a teacher. My sister, older sister, was a teacher. She taught here in Pensacola, so I guess it just came natural. Funny thing, I majored in elementary education, and when I finished college, the first year, I didn’t get a job teaching. I was a secretary in a high school in Century, Florida. It was Carmel High School. And I was able to get the job because I had done a lot of – my daddy was a new republic bail bondsman, and I used to do a lot of stuff for him. Typing. I had typing in high school. So I was able to maintain that job and must’ve done pretty good at it. I worked at Carmel for a year. Then the next year, I got a teaching job at an elementary school. I taught third grade. I taught third grade one year, and then the principal of that school – that’s when they built Wedgewood – and that principal was made principal of Wedgewood School, and he took some of the teachers with him, and he took me. That’s how I ended up at Wedgewood.

	C:	And when did you start at Wedgewood?



	W:	I think it was 1964, and I worked there thirty-two years. When it first opened up, it was a high school, that had six through twelve. When I went there I taught sixth grade and it was just sixth grade that I taught. I can’t remember the year it became a middle school. I think it was a high school for about three or four years. Maybe even longer, I don’t know. I taught sixth grade as long as it was still there with the high school. And I’ve been trying to remember when it became a middle





school, but I can’t remember. I don’t know whether the schools were integrated or not. It may have been that. I just don’t – you forget about years, you know?

	C:	So when you started at Wedgewood, it was segregated? Do you remember what integration was like, how it affected things?

	W:	I do remember that the first year it was integrated, we had one White teacher, and they had to change the district of some of the schools. And we had a lot of students from Bueller who had to transfer to Wedgewood, and some of the parents were very much against it. I don’t know whether against it because having to travel – because it was a formerly Black school, that was part of the reason. But the kids were fine. I never had any problem with the kids at all. I think the transition went smoothly, as far I can remember. That first year we had one White teacher, and after that we started having more. I had forgotten about those years.

	C:	Did it change where the kids came from, to go to Wedgewood?



	W:	Some of the kids that used to go to Wedgewood had to be transferred to other schools. I just remember Bueller. But I’m sure there were some from other places too. At that time, I think Wedgewood opened up in 1964. And Woodham High School opened up a year or so after that, and it was a high school. So some of the kids from Wedgewood area had to go to Woodham. It was a big change for a lot of the students at that time. But they all made it.

	C:	When we were there at the Wedgewood Community Center, I saw where the school used to be, and I saw where they put the school after they tore it down





because of the asbestos. Do you remember that? Were you there when they tore the school down or was that after?

	W:	I retired in 1996. So when they tore the school down, I think it was in the 2000s. It was kinda sad to hear that it was torn down, because to me it was a perfectly good school. I spent thirty-two years there. Those were good years. I think they tore the school down about, what, five, ten years ago? No, not that long. I don’t remember when they tore it down. But at that time, students were bussed from different areas. A lot of school buses to come. Cause at that time, Wedgewood was the only school down in that area. We had Washington in town.

	C:	The transition during integration – you said the kids were find with it? How were the other teachers? You said they had one White teacher the first year?

	W:	After that first year I think we began to have more here, because we had the teams. This group of teachers taught the same group of children, another group of teachers taught the same children. My team – I think there were five teachers, and I was the only Black teacher, and the others were White. As far as I can remember it went around fine. I didn’t notice any difference or anything. Most of the teachers that I remember, I don’t think they were from other schools. I just can’t remember whether they were from out of town or transferred from other schools or not. I don’t know. But I don’t recall any problems. Everybody seemed to just fit right in.

	C:	Did any of the teachers at Wedgwood go teach somewhere else after integration?





	W:	Mhmm. Some of them went to high school. A number of them went to Washington. After integration it became a middle school, so a lot of those teachers who were at Wedgewood, where originally high school teachers and they wanted to go to a high school. But I don’t recall really any real problems that we had when schools were integrated. If they had any feelings, they probably kept it to themselves. It wasn’t anything open.

	C:	During that time, you stayed here in this area and drove to work over in Wedgewood?

	W:	Yep. I remember the first year I told you that I worked in Century, Carmel, I was a secretary, and that was almost forty miles that I used to ride with somebody every morning. But with Wedgewood I drove there so often that sometimes after that, after Iretired, I’d be going out that way to somewhere else, and I’d find myself heading towards Wedgewood, I said “oh, I’m not going to Wedgewood.” [laughter]

	C:	Just an old habit. So many times. Well, when you look back on your teaching career, what are some of the most satisfying parts of your reflections on that, of teaching?

	W:	I guess, when I would see that something that I was trying to get over to the kid would’ve clicked. I remember in particular one little boy, he had so much trouble with dividing. Several times when I would have the other kids doing seat work, I would get him to my desk and we would just go over and over and over. And it finally did hit him, and he became – was in high school – an honor student. And





that really made me proud. And I was so glad that I had taken that time with him. I think the first year that I taught when I was teaching – well, the first two or three years, it was self-contained where I would teach all of the subjects to kids. So I had them with me all day except for P.E. and I think music. So I got to know the kids, and it was nice. And even today sometimes I’m in the store, like Walmart, and I will somebody and they will say, “I remember you!” And that was years and years ago! Just last week I saw somebody, and she said she went to high school there. So that had to be [19]64, [19]65. I said, “Oh, did I teach you?” She said, “no, you didn’t teach me, but I remember you.” How could she remember me?

Cause when I look in the mirror I don’t see anything like I used to look. [laughter] But I’m always running into students that I taught or either went to school there. My granddaughter said, “granny, everybody knows you!” [laughter]

	C:	Hello.



	B:	Sorry to interrupt.



	C:	No, no. That’s fine. Yeah. So she was saying, she goes shopping, she still runs into students who recognize her.

	W:	There’s one that she said, “I don’t remember your name but I know your face.” And I said, “yeah I have that kinda face, huh.”

	C:	When you got to Wedgewood, another teacher was saying that the teachers themselves would have to get the teaching materials for the students. Did you have to do that? Did you gave to get ahold of the materials for the reading and the assignments?





	W:	Yeah, cause we were just told that you were teaching sixth grade or whatever.



We were given books. We had to develop our lesson plans and thesis and whatever.

	B:	Were you given new books or used books? From the beginning?



	W:	I’m trying to think, I think they were all used. I think in later years we got some new books. In the beginning we had used books.

	B:	You started teaching in [19]60?



	W:	Is started in [19]64 and [19]63 was when President Kennedy was assassinated and I was at Olive Elementary, and I think next year I went to Wedgewood in [19]64 to 1996.

	B:	Do you remember – another interview we did, something about Olive – do you remember where it was?

	W:	Uh huh.



	B:	Where was it?



	W:	It was on 29th past where I put that song on. Is it still on down there? Lincoln Park, I think it’s called now, and they still have an elementary school there. But at that time it was Olive Elementary, and I taught there one year, third grade.

	B:	So, Marian Bennet told me her mother worked there. Remember Jen Bennet? W:	Yeah, she taught there?





	B:	Yeah, she said she taught at Olive. I didn’t know exactly what she meant, so I kept asking, “what’s this Olive school, where was it, where was it.” So, she said that her mother taught there.

	W:	I didn’t know that.



	B:	Of course it would have been back in the [19]40s, [19]50s, before.



	W:	Because I think, when they came back from Pensacola they had been living somewhere else. But I didn’t know they taught there.

	B:	Her mother.



	W:	Mhmm. Now it’s Lincoln Park Elementary, I think it’s called now. B:	You know how Lincoln Park got its name? The area for its name?

	W:	Unh-uh. I sure don’t. I know that they call that area Lincoln Park, and that’s probably why they named the school Lincoln Park, but I don’t know how that name originated.

	B:	So about Wedgewood. When you were at Wedgewood, do you remember anything about how those students were as a community, as far as – in other interviews we’ve done and other people we’ve talked to, they said how it was a lot of families from Alabama who came there, it was built on people who lived almost very rural. So, do you remember any signs of that rural life, of them bringing that rural life? It might have been anything from them putting the cardboard in the shoes, or – what is something else that they’d say they would do? How they would grow their own food? Do you remember any of that?





	W:	Unh-uh.



	B:	That’s fine if you don’t.



	W:	The only thing I remember about is telling them when the schools were integrated. We had a lot of students from Bueller, White kids, who had to come to Wedgewood, and the parents were very much against it. As I said, I don’t know whether they were against the fact that their kid had to be bussed there, or whether because it was a Black school – which was probably was because it was a Black school. I knew a lot of parents did protest. And I had a lot of kids who I taught who were from Bueller, but the kids were fine. Once they got in the classroom, it was okay.

	C:	What kind of stuff did you do in the summers? Did you teach in the summer as well?

	W:	No, I never wanted to teach during the summer. [laughter] I just stayed home. I had some sisters, and we used to get together for a couple of weeks and we’d all meet somewhere together. But now I just stayed in Pensacola. I never did a whole lot of stuff.

	B:	Speaking of your sisters, have you talked about siblings? C:	No, we haven’t.

	B:	So, how many siblings?



	W:	There were five girls and one boy, so I had four sisters and one brother. I told him that my brother was a Tuskegee Airman, but he’s missing in action and





declared dead after a year. I told him that Polkinghorne Village was named after him.

	C:	What was his journey like, to get into Tuskegee? W:	I was so young.

	B:	You were the baby? So, as far as your sister – one of them did something in World War II, she was almost like a Rosie the Riveter type. Remember when she was a beauty queen?

	W:	During that time, when the war first started, they hired a lot of women to work, and she worked at Tuskegee airbase on planes. I don’t know what she did. And she was named Miss Tuskegee air – whatever it was. They named her something. Miss Tuskegee.

	B:	I saw her pin-up doll poster thing.



	W:	We used to have a picture of her at home, and somebody took my picture, I don’t know where it is. I guess one of her children came down and took it. She had her pin-up picture. She was there at the same time my brother was there, when she worked, and that’s where she met her husband. He was in the service when she met him. And then they got married and moved to Illinois.

	B:	And that’s the one who was gone until – you buried her not too long ago right? W:	No. That was another sister. That sister went to Hampton.

	B:	Which school was she in? W:	Hampton Institute.





	B:	No, who was…



	W:	That was Lillian. And the one who was Miss Tuskegee was Naomi. She lived in Seattle.

	B:	What happened with your father? How did your father become the first Black man buried in Holy Cross Cemetery?

	W:	He bought six plots, and nothing was ever said at the time we bought and paid for it. Then when he died, and he was to be buried there, the priest or somebody didn’t want him to be buried there. But it went through anyway. That priest was transferred somewhere else. [laughter]

	B:	So he bought the six plots, for all of ya’ll. W:	Now, five have been used, one left.

	B:	You think you’ll use it for James?



	W:	My brother James was missing in action and they never found his body. B:	They’re trying to though, you know.

	W:	Yeah.



	B:	So do you think you’d have him come back to that plot?



	W:	No, if they would find him, he’d probably be buried at Barrancas. B:	Well it would be up to you.

	W:	It would be wonderful if they could.





	B:	They’ve been finding bodies now.



	W:	I just read a couple of months ago that they found a body, and he was buried at Barrancas. I hope they find him before I pass. Cause I’m the last one! [laughter]

	B:	I hope so too.



	C:	When you think back on the times of integration, beyond just the school or how it was with the changes of the school, what was it like in Pensacola during that time?

	W:	Well, that was during the time they had a lot of sit-downs at the lunch counters here. I never was involved in any of it cause I was always a stay-at-home child. When I was teaching, when it happened, never really got out much. But I don’t really recall any big incidents in my area.

	B:	Do you remember registering to vote?



	W:	I registered when I was – at that time I think I was twenty-one? And my Daddy, he was the one who had me go vote and register, cause when I first tried, they didn’t let me because I was underage. I was going to be the age in a few months, but they wouldn’t let me register at the time. My daddy was a stickler about voting. He took me to be registered.

	B:	So what year would that have been?



	W:	When I was twenty-one? So it must be [19]55.





	B:	So this was around Montgomery, around that time? Rosa Parks? Well not maybe because Rosa Parks was December 19[55]. Yeah this was during Civil Rights.

So you didn’t have any problems registering?



	W:	Unh-uh. None at all.



	B:	Did you have any problems voting? W:	Unh-uh.

	B:	I heard that it was like that here. That Black folks, we didn’t have much trouble voting, having access to the polls.

	W:	I don’t recall any incidents anywhere in Pensacola. B:	You remember if they had a poll tax?

	W:	No, they didn’t. Cause I certainly would remember that.



	B:	I think Ms. McCray. Ms. Lois McCray, told me during her day, they did. She said what they would do is just pay the poll tax of somebody else. They paid the poll tax, and then they paid the poll tax of someone else who couldn’t afford it.

	W:	Oh really?



	B:	Mhmm.



	W:	Hm.



	B:	I mean, she’s like ninety something, so she’s older than you. And I think that was around the time they had that [19]48 election.

	W:	Had what?





	B:	1948, I think she said? Years prior they had figured out it’s best to pay the poll tax.

	W:	In [19]48 I would have been about fourteen.



	B:	So your father was really politically involved too, though. W:	Yeah.

	B:	Do you remember anything about that people’s? The business he had? The cooperative?

	W:	Wedgewood Medicine Company. B:	And you could buy shares.

	W:	Yeah. That was before my time. I just heard about it. And I saw a little flyer that they had Wedgewood Medicine Company and had the names of all the people who had shares in it. He had some different medicines, like mosquito lotion, and all that, he put together.

	B:	So when he had the featured story, the Polkinghorne Prattle?



	W:	There was a paper there called the Colored Citizen and he used to have an article every week called the Polkinghorn’s Prattle, and he would have little newsy things about people. And he was was a notary public at that time, and he married a lot of people. In the Prattle, at the end of it, he would have names of people who were married. And during that time he married a lot of people. Cause that was during wartime, and a lot of people married during the wartime. And he also ended his column with dreams. If you dream of a cow doing this, it means so





and so. I think he probably had a dream book. And people used to call him up on the phone and say, “doc!” – they called him doc – “Doc, I dreamed of so and so! What does that mean?”

	B:	So he was pharmacist, newspaper man, dream interpreter. [laughter] C:	Notary public.

	B:	Notary public. [laughter]



	W:	During that time he had a lot of things going. He used to have his drugstore on Belmont Street, round there by Belmont-DeVilliers, he had a drug store around there. But I think when times got hard, that’s when he moved where he are now. He had his drugstore there but he started selling groceries too. That was something else.

	C:	You said he made up his own mosquito lotion?



	W:	He had a mosquito lotion, and during that time, I remember we used to sleep upstairs, and at night before he’d go to bed, he’d come up there with his mosquito lotion and he would sprinkle it around. And it was good too! I don’t know whether it was the mosquito lotion or whatever, but it was good.

	B:	It kept mosquitos away?



	W:	Oh yeah. Because if you think about it, I’m sure we had windows open up there, upstairs, at that time. And mosquitos were prevalent more so than now. It helped. I do remember at night, hearing him come into the room, every night. At that store, he started selling groceries, like milk, and bread, and canned goods and





stuff. And eventually he stopped with the pharmacy part. It was mostly just a store in later years.

	B:	Did he have his own bottles, or labels? W:	I think so.

	B:	His own labels on the bottles? W:	Mhmm.

	B:	Was he using those little glass bottles.



	W:	Yeah, I can remember seeing glass bottles. I think during that time pharmacies had to put their own stuff together. Nowadays, everyone have pills and they count the pills and whatnot. I can remember he used to have to fill little capsules with stuff.

	B:	Oh.



	W:	So when you buy, you have capsules that are already there.



	B:	So he had capsules, like the kind you open. You had to be careful with that. So, I have seen your house. So the part of your house that’s like the – what’s that, Rues and…

	W:	Jackson. The store was on Jackson, the part that juts out. Then we closed it down and years later, we close everything down and just a store room.

	B:	He probably got some good stuff in there.



	W:	Used to be. Now it’s junky. When I’m getting rid of stuff, take it, put it out there.





	C:	That’s where the treasures are.



	B:	I bet you can found some of those labels, bottles in there. W:	I doubt it, after all these years.

	B:	It’s probably there. [laughter] So after your father passed, it was you and your mother in the house?

	W:	And my older sister.



	B:	Cause everyone else had gotten married.



	W:	My oldest sister was married, and when she was divorced, she moved back. B:	Bethira?

	W:	No, you didn’t know her. Miriam. B:	Okay.

	W:	She moved back home, I don’t know when. I get the years mixed up. She just stayed there, and when my daddy passed, it was mom and Miriam. She taught here at Spencer Bibbs for years.

	B:	And then I guess your mom passed, and then Miriam.



	W:	Momma passed in [19]78,and then Miriam passed in [19]81. B:	And you came back home, or?





	W:	I came back in [19]60… I was married for seven years, then I came back here in [19]62, I believe it was. And I stayed at home. So it was my momma and my older sister and me until Momma passed.

	B:	Ms. Vera was at the house a few doors down? So what did ya’ll do with that house? Was it always Ms. Vera’s?

	W:	Well, she deeded it over to Charles, so he owns it now.



	B:	But before that. Was that just where she lived? She just decided to stay two doors down from her family, or…?

	W:	Well, actually, it was in my older sister’s name, Miriam. I don’t know whether she just deeded it over to Vera, sold it, I don’t know. I don’t know the details. But it became Vera’s.

	B:	So Miriam lived there?



	W:	No, Miriam didn’t live there. My daddy had bought it. B:	Okay, that’s what I’m getting to.

	W:	He put it in Miriam’s name.



	B:	When he bought it, what did he use it for?



	W:	It was rented. He used to rent rooms, cause I remember one time about four people living there. My daddy bought several pieces of property and he put them all in our names. We all had some piece of property. I had the house right next door to me, and Naomi had one that was on Alkinese Street somewhere.





	B:	Did you keep the house next door to you? W:	I sold it to Vera.

	B:	And then Vera gave it to Mr. Charles. At least it’s still in your family. [laughter] She was older than you! What you talking about! So she was handling it, huh?

	W:	When I had it, we had somebody renting it, and I didn’t want to be bothered by renting property.

	B:	So what do remember about being on the block as far as entertainment? You said you didn’t go at much, but there’s still a lot going on down there.

	W:	I know. When you had – what is it five or six club? I never went in there… I didn’t care for going on. My parents were sort of strict. And I just never even wanted to go. Five or Six Club, something else was around there on the block ,as they called it.

	B:	Do you remember the Shirleys?



	W:	Vaguely. I was so young, I remember there was one who was around my age, and he’s the one who’s living now. Maurice. And Donald, the one that made that movie...

	B:	The Green Book. Don Shirley lived across the street from her.



	W:	Donald was around my sister’s age. I was telling one of her children not too long ago about it. And she said, “oh, I met him.” Cause she met him through her momma. Donald. And I vaguely remember there was some brothers, older brothers, and they used to play with my brother, and they used to play in the





house, in the yard. I just vaguely remember that. But as far as – in fact I corresponded with Christmas cards with a couple of the older brothers. They were dentists, and they used to send a card every Christmas.

	B:	Oh, okay. So do you remember people talking about after you kinda got famous, or?

	W:	No, cause so many people who were knew then probably not living anymore. In fact, in my neighborhood, there’s nobody from way back then.

	B:	Yeah, I’m asking do you remember when he was coming up as a musician, if people talked about him, or people were proud of him, or.

	W:	I think that doing that, when he got older, they must’ve moved, cause I don’t remember.

	B:	They moved to Tallahassee.



	W:	I don’t know when they moved…



	B:	His mother’s buried at St. John’s. She died, but I think the dad –



	W:	I think the mother must’ve died – I think I read that the youngest son, the mother died during that time. Either during childbirth or afterwards. So I never knew her. I just remember what everybody called her, Father Sheridan.

	B:	Or Don Shirley’s dad. He was the director of the Episcopal Church.



	W:	And at that time, the parsonage was behind the church on Larue Street, and that’s where they lived.





	B:	By the church.



	W:	They built where they have meetings and whatnot, they built something there. But they tore the house down in later years. But I just don’t remember them too much. All I remember is them playing, and I think the youngest son was around my age. I think I read that he’s a psychologist, something. All of them were – two older boys were doctors. I think there must’ve been four boys altogether that I remember.

	B:	Yeah, I remember it was a big thing when the Green Book movie came out, and they were saying how the family didn’t like, how it didn’t represent his story well.

	W:	It was more or less in favor of the guy who drove him. You went to that – B:	The discussion of it?

	W:	Yeah.



	B:	I didn’t see the movie.



	W:	I didn’t see the movie either. [laughter] B:	I don’t think I was too interested.

	W:	I found out that it was not too much about Donald, it didn’t interest me.



	B:	Right, right. So do you remember the Gryces? Gigi Gryce? Any of his folks? W:	Uhn-uh.

	B:	Okay, G-R-Y-C-E. I also know they went to Allen. But Gryce family.





	W:	No, I don’t remember. Hm. We’ve had a lot of people over the years that used to go to Allen.

	B:	I was asking because Gigi has this photo called A Great Day in Harlem, where it has all these jazz musicians in Harlem, standing in front of some steps, a stoop or something, and he’s one of the people in there. Someone wrote a book about him, talking about growing up in Pensacola, growing up in Allen Chapel.

	W:	Oh really?



	B:	Yeah. I probably should have asked Mr. Chip Minor, who we interviewed the other day. I’ll go back to that. So, coming up during that time, is a strong, Black professional, set of folks. And across the yard, I think were the DuBose? That yellow and green house? Do you remember who they were?

	W:	Both of them were teachers. They came from Daytona Beach I believe, they taught there. She was a librarian at – what was it, was it Washington? – a matter of fact, the daughter, Carol is here right now. She’ll be here this week. She lives in Washington now. I don’t know what he taught. I don’t remember. But I know she was a librarian.

	B:	For where?



	W:	That I don’t remember.



	B:	What library’s did ya’ll go to? Was Alice Williams the only one you could go to?



	W:	She was a librarian in the school. Now Ms. Pester was a librarian at the city library.





B:   Yeah. We’re gonna talk to her.



	W:	As a matter of fact, she was a librarian when the library was on East Street, when they had a separate library for Blacks. My daddy owned that property before it because the property before it became a library. He used to buy a lot of property. He used to go to sales that they had, and he was able to acquire a lot of property.

B:  So he sold it to them to build it? Because Alice S. Williams went to the church! That makes sense. He went to the church, Alice S. Williams and H.G. Williams went to the church. That would make sense then. [laughter] But he was also a freemason. I saw his name on the cornerstone of that lodge.

W:  Oh, on A street? Yeah. He was very active. He was. B:   And then he got to notarize it himself! [laughter]

W:  And I said, my daddy, being a notary, he could marry people. And he married two of my sisters.

B:  How did he approve of ya’lls twin sisters? He was a pretty tight laced guy. W:  He never tried to interfere. If that’s who they wanted.

B:   How did you get a chance to meet them though?



W:  My sister Naomi met her husband when she worked at Tuskegee. Vera met hers at FAMU. She went to school there, and he was going to school there. And I met mine when I went to FAMC.

B:   So you were still at FAMC?





	W:	And it was during that time where – I guess my last year or something, that they changed it to FAMU.

	B:	You remember the dorm you stayed in?



	W:	McGuinn Hall. I don’t know if they still have that there. I was looking at a book last night, had pictures of all the dorms, and I just can’t remember the names of the others.

	B:	McGuinn, Diamond. I stayed in Crawford. But you know they just tore down a bunch of those.

	W:	I guess I wouldn’t know it if I went there.



	B:	They torn down Polkinghorne Village, but they put a marker for him in front of the new building.

	W:	This lady at our church, Kimber Powell, she says that she’s from Tallahassee, and I tell her whenever she comes back to please take a picture of that marker so I can see it. During that time, when they first built Polkinghorne village, a lot of teachers used to stay there, and students. At one point my sister Vera and her family stayed at Polkinghorne Village. And in later years, I think it was just mostly students who lived there.

	B:	Do you remember the dedication?



	W:	I was at the dedication but I don’t really remember anything. I had a picture with mom and daddy on the platform, and I was standing behind them. I remember





that they had some planes that flew over at the time of the dedication. But I don’t remember the events.

	B:	I saw the program. It said Benjamin O. Davis was the speaker. W:	I don’t even remember that.

	B:	But you remember the flyover. You did mention something about the flyover. W:	Mhmm.

	B:	Do you remember Chappie?



W:  You know they used to belong to Allen Chapel. The family. But no, I don’t remember him.

B:  He and your brother would have been closer in age. W:  I think he was probably a little older than my brother. B:  He was born in 1920.

W:  James was born in [19]21. They were about the same age then. Yeah. B:   And he would have gone off to Tuskegee at the same time too?

W:   Mhmm.



	B:	What did you like most about those days? In Belmont-DeVilliers, living in that neighborhood?

	W:	Well I know that there were a lot of businesses in that area. When you walked down DeVilliers street, people didn’t live there, it was just businesses places.





Restaurants, man had a shoe shine store. A number of restaurants. Just seems like it was booming, those businesses.

	B:	Do you remember B and O? B and R Café? W:	Not by name.

	B:	What are some of the places you remember? Food places?



	W:	There was Belle’s Café. My family lived on Coyle Street I believe, which is just one block over. All I remember, there was a man who used to shine shoes, and he used to have a lot of coins in the window, and people used to come by and look at the coins. And then, around the corner was Mister…I’ve forgotten the name of the man who had alligators. He had alligators in the back. [laughter]

	C:	In a swimming pool? W:	He had a big pool.

	B:	The ice cream shop. Dr. Boyd told us about those alligators. It was Mr. Stillman’s ice cream? Or somebody’s ice cream? I can’t remember the name but it was an ice cream place he said.

	W:	Was it Wingate? Haven’t thought about that in years! B:	So it’s alligators back there. And what. For why?

	W:	It’s a wonder they allowed that. But nowadays they wouldn’t. And apparently the alligators never got out. [laughter]

	C:	We heard they did get out.





W:   They did?



C:  We heard they got out and went running down the road. [laughter] W:  I didn’t know about that.

B:  So you wanna talk to me about – well two things, really. Cause I know part of it, it wasn’t the red light district like it was downtown, but I know they kind of had their own red light district down there. Did you know anything about that?

W:  I’ve heard of the red light district that was round Government and Main Street, but I didn’t know anything about it.

B:   I’m sure. In Belmont-DeVilliers though they had a place called Chee-Chee



Charlie’s.



W:   I didn’t know about that.



B:  It was right there where what’s now is the parking lot of the furniture store, on the backside of it. They said it was a building there, it was a house there. They would gamble, they would do all kinds of stuff in that house.

W:   Really?



B:  You never heard anything about that. You didn’t get out much, so…. W:  No…

B:   You remember the West Hill Taxi stand?



W:   Yeah, they had down there by the barbershop. They had West Hill and they had – there was another taxi stand down in that area. Can’t remember the other one.





	B:	Did you ever have to go downtown for anything? Or was everything that you needed in your community?

	W:	I used to have to go to the bank for my daddy. I walked downtown and paid the telephone bill, which was on Belmont Street, Belmont and Baylen. They had a lot of stores downtown that when I was growing up, Sears, and Penny’s, and Walgreens, all that was downtown. We used to walk when my daddy didn’t have a car.

	B:	When you all would do the funerals, how would you do them? At Bimbo’s, at the church, at your house? How did the wakes in funerals go?

	W:	Oh, no wake. For my daddy, he was just at the funeral home like they do now, day before. So we went to the church. We didn’t have a wake. The family did not want a wake. It starts going to the funeral home, and I don’t care for that. And momma didn’t want one neither. Stayed at the funeral home, and then church when it was time for the funeral. And I told him that my daddy had bought six plots at the Holy Cross, and now five of them have been filled, one left. When I was growing up I never went out much. I guess my parents were kinda strict, so I never went places a lot of my friends went. I was a stay at home child. My personality was like that anyway. To this day I don’t go out much. I don’t remember seeing the inside of 506 Club.

	B:	Did you go to the movies? W:	Oh yeah. That, I did go.

	B:	Did ya’ll go to the Senator or to the Belmont?





	W:	I didn’t go to the Belmont too much. I remember in later years, the Belmont had become seated. People didn’t go away. My sister Vera, she used to come down and visit so often. She took me to the Belmont to see a movie. And when I walked in somebody hollered out “Maggie! I didn’t know you went to the Belmont!” At that time, they had Ritz Theater, and I had a friend that we used to visit back and forth on Sundays, my house one Sunday, her house the other, and her parents used to take them to the Ritz every Sunday.

	B:	The one on Palafox? W:	No, it’s on Tarragona.

	B:	Oh okay. So there was a White-only Ritz – W:	That’s the Rex.

	B:	They Rex. Okay, thank you. So the Ritz is Tarragona…



	W:	That was the Black one. And I used to go to the Saenger quite a bit. B:	Ya’ll still using the colored entrance then?

	W:	Yes.



	B:	I know you wasn’t throwing things over the Balcony. W:	Oh, no.

	B:	Like these hooligan children.



	W:	That’s not my thing. That would never occur to me to do that.





	B:	Did you ever go visit people in other neighborhoods? Or was your world contained in…

	W:	My word was probably contained because, like I said, my daddy had the store, and I had to stay in the store. And when I came home from school every day, I had to go in the store. I had this friend who lived on Warrington, I used to visit her. But I never went a whole lot of places. All my time was confined to the store, mostly.

	B:	You sold the groceries. W:	Mhmm.

	B:	So you didn’t have to go to like Hawk’s or anything? Ya’ll didn’t go to the Tanyard?

	W:	Uhn-uh. No. Never went too many places. Thinking about it today, it must have been a dull life. But at the time it didn’t seem dull. [laughter]

	C:	Was there anything that we haven’t touched on that you’d like to reflect on? W:	No, I think we talked quite a bit.

	B:	So as an educator, I’m sure you talked about being in high school. You graduated 1950.

	W:	Mmhm.



	B:	At…?



	W:	It was at old Washington on 8th Street and whatever that street is.





	B:	Lu Rua?



	W:	No…



	B:	Strong?



	W:	Strong.



	B:	That brick one, is it?



	W:	Yeah. This lady, Ms. O.B. Williams, and her husband, they lived right in front of it, and they belonged to our church.

	B:	He was a contractor or something right?



	W:	At one time we had a lot of people in our church. We had several doctors, dentists. Dr. Pickens used to belong to Allen Chapel, he was my godfather.

	B:	Pickens was your godfather? His name has come up a few times.



	W:	And Mrs. Pickens, his wife, was my godmother. I was out to that cemetery a couple of weeks ago, and I was able to go right to this grave.

	B:	Where is he buried?



	W:	What’s that on G Street? B:	St. Johns?

	W:	Yeah. And Ms. McCurdy, do you know Ms. McCurdy? She’s buried there too, she and her husband.

	B:	Yeah Railroad Bill’s buried in too.





	W:	Hm?



	B:	Railroad Bill.



	W:	Railroad Bill?



	B:	He was like a – I’ll tell you about him. There’s some interesting people buried out there, and I saw quite a few of folks connected to our community. So 1950? Do you remember who your principal was by the way?

	W:	When I graduated? I know he left Pensacola and went to Bethune-Cookman.



Was it Espite? Or Moore. I think it was Moore.



	B:	Someone else mentioned that name more.



	W:	Cause his brother taught P.E. I can’t remember him, Moore, that’s who it was, but I can’t remember his first name.

	C:	Well this is ten to five? B:	Ten to five?

	C:	Ten to five, yeah. B:	You mean four?

	W:	No, mine says 4:45. You had somebody at four didn’t you? B:	I thought. We can turn it off.

[End of Interview] Transcribed by: Rachel Hujsa





	Audit-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, January 6, 2021 Final-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, January 13, 2021