AAHP 275; Corbett; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 275 Jordan Corbett African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on July 27, 2012 47 minutes | 23 pages



Abstract: In this interview, teacher and track coach Mr. Jordan Corbett devotes much time to discussing his educational experience as a child, speaking of the athletic games he attended with his involvement in multiple sports. Furthermore, he details memories of his time in the military during World War II and highlights the ways in which others treated him and African American soldiers because of the color of their skin.

Additionally, Mr. Corbett describes his educational experience following his military service; he also explains a few life lessons he learned playing football in college and then dives into his time serving as a track coach. Finally, he underscores his sentiments surrounding the victory over Japan at the end of World War II.



[Keywords: African American History; Polk County; Union Academy; World War II]



















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 275

Interviewee: Jordan Corbett Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: July 27, 2012



	W:	This is Marna Weston for the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program at the Union Academy Bartow High School reunion held at Bartow Civic Center. I am speaking this evening with Mr. Jordan J. Corbett, a teacher and track coach at Union Academy. Mr. Corbett, thank you very much for speaking to me this evening.

	C:	And thank you for allowing me to.



	W:	Mr. Corbett, could you please state and spell your full name?



	C:	My name is Jordon J. Corbett. That is J-o-r-d-o-n, middle initial J, C-o-r-b-e-t-t. W:	Does the J stand for anything?

	C:	Jerone.



	W:	Okay, and could you spell that, please? C:	J-e-r-o-n-e.

	W:	And when and where were you born?



	C:	I was born in Tiger Bay—it no longer exists now, in 1922. W:	Is Tiger Bay part of Florida?

	C:	It was then. It was a mining company’s facility. They moved it from Tiger Bay to a community called Pierce.

	W:	What county was Tiger Bay located in? C:	Polk County.

	W:	And where was Fort Pierce?



	C:	Fort Pierce is also in Polk County, about four miles south of Mulberry, Florida. W:	Who are your mother and father, and what are their dates of birth?





	C:	My mother, Rebecca, was Rebecca Hutnell before marrying, and my father, Isaac Corbett. Rebecca was born in Midway, Florida, in 1900. My dad was born in Midway, Florida, in 1891.

	W:	Where did they originally come from before they came from Midway, or is that where they originated?

	C:	That was where they originated, yes.



	W:	Can you tell me about your dad’s mother and father?



	C:	Now, I only know about my dad’s father. His name was Peter Corbett. I never did know his mother. My mother’s mother died when she was a baby, and her aunt and uncle raised her. That was Mary and Fred Hutnell.

	W:	And what about her dad? C:	I never knew her dad.

	W:	Okay. Do you have brothers and sisters?



C:  I had brothers and sisters. I had a sister who was the oldest in the family, and she died in [19]89, a brother who was the middle child, Clarence Corbett, who died in [20]07.

W:   And you’re currently married. Would you please tell me about your wife?



	C:		Yeah, I am currently married to, her name originally was Eva Doloris Wyatt. We married in the year 1954, July 18.

W:   And where and when did you meet?



	C:	We met here in Bartow, Florida. She was teaching at Union Academy, and that’s in the year [19]54 when I was hired. That’s when I had the privilege of meeting





her. We worked on several projects, and that’s how we became lovers. [Laughter]

	W:	And together ever since? C:	Ever since, yes.

	W:	Children?



	C:	Yes, I have one son, and he has two children—a son and a daughter. And his son has two children—a son and a daughter.

	W:	Could you tell me about growing up at home? Did you have chores? What was the average day like growing up with your family?

	C:	Yes, the company that moved from Tiger Bay—my dad worked with a phosphate mining company, and we lived in company property. But we had—I had chores every day. At that time, the homes, it was a four-room home, with an outside facility. It didn’t have inside facilities. And the company actually furnished the homes. The only thing that he could pay for, I believe I remember them saying that they had to pay $1.30 a month for electricity during that time. The company was called Double AC Company, and it was a phosphate mining company. He worked originally in what they called a pit where they mined rock, and they would take the top off by using water guns, and they would pump that off, and they called it overburden until they got to the phosphate rock. And then they would do the water guns, and they would pump that and send it to what they call a washing machine, and then from there to dryers. And from that they made many products out of the phosphates.





	W:	You seem to have a very detailed knowledge of the work and the production.



How did you gain that knowledge?



	C:	I guess just from ordinary experience, observing and listening. When I was in the eleventh grade, during that time, not many students finished high school. The company-furnished school, I was schooled in that community where I was from eighth grade, I mean from what we call primary to eighth grade. And after that, the students had to find a high school. For a long time, the only way you could get to a high school—they didn’t have one close to us— [was] a White high school in Mulberry, the other one in Fort Mead, but they were all White. The black schools, there was one in Lakeland called Rochelle Bartow, eventually Union Academy, and I think the other communities like Haines City Lake eventually. But our school, when I started school, we only had two teachers, and we went from grades primary to eighth grade. And you could imagine, and it had two rooms. We didn’t have cafeterias, so being in a small community, we had what we called a lunch period. The students will go home for lunch and come back. During the winter time, I would [inaudible 6:47]. The boys were sent out into the woods to get their own wood to keep the school’s warm.

	W:	What was the name of that first school that you went to? C:	It’s called Pierce Elementary.

	W:	And who were the two teachers?



	C:	The first teacher that I recall, the first teacher, her name was Mrs. Garrison. And the next teacher was called Annia Williams. Now, before I left that school, we ended up with four teachers, and we had four rooms. One of the hard things





about that, we went from primary to eighth grade, and for some reason, we had good athletes. The Black schools did not have a very well organized athletic association, but they did have sports, and as an elementary school, when it came to the basketball tournaments, we had to compete with the high schools. And strange enough, we at one year, competed to go to the state tournament, played in the state tournament as eighth graders, and ran to the semi-finals as one of the top schools in the country, Standard in Jacksonville. During that time, playing basketball, after every point, you came back to jump center. And the scores ended up being fourteen-thirteen. They beat us one point. [Laughter] And that was played in Tallahassee. Pardon me?

	W:	Actually I was about to ask you about your rivals. But I would like to hear more about the game in Tallahassee. What was that experience like?

	C:	That was quite an experience because, and to be frank, I had never been out of Polk County. And the teacher didn’t have experience. One of the players did the coaching. And they made arrangements to get us to Tallahassee, and it was the Florida A&M University, and it was in a gym. What did they call that gym? It was a wooden building. And schools from all over the state were there. And we were, I think, the only, what we call, elementary, from kindergarten to eighth grade, students there, which was quite an experience for us.

	W:	Do you remember who drove the bus?



	C:	I don’t remember who drove the bus, I really don’t. I have been trying to think that it wasn’t the bus, we went in cars. And as far as I know, it was two cars. They were loaded. As I recall, it was two cars that carried us up there. And the





principal who was Anna Lee Amos, at that time, was one of the drivers. [Laughter]

	W:	Do you remember the members, the kids that were on the team and the kid who played the coach?

	C:		I remember most of them. The coach was Louis McDuffy. We called him “Snoop,” very good athlete. He eventually ended up playing in the Black Professional Baseball. It was very difficult for him to get in the others. A guy named Auggie Ready, he also ended up playing Black Professional Baseball.

G. Jays, Gadsen Black, James Brewton, myself, and there was one other, I can’t—one other except myself. I can’t recall the others. That’s who it was, there was only about seven of us. We played all high school. And that same group left the year I finished the eighth grade, was the first year that they began bussing students out of those communities to Union Academy. Now, the communities that was bussed started with the Mulberry area which had Nickels, there were several communities in that area, Pierce, Bradley, Bruston, Agricola, Homeland, [inaudible 11:07], and on this side were the West Side students, Gordonville, Gordon Heights, O’Connelsville community. That is, all Blacks were bussed from those areas to Union Academy, and there was one bus that came to pick up most of the students. The bus was very crowded. We were very happy that we were able to go to school. Because so many students after graduating in those areas, it was easy to find jobs. The boys could get jobs to go to work, and there was really nothing much for the young ladies. They would end up marrying, and some parents were able to send them off. A few students were able to pool and





go to Lakeland to Rochelle High School, and one or two were able to come [inaudible 12:07] out of our community [inaudible 12:09]. I was fortunate because that was the first year, after I finished the eighth grade, that they started bussing students throughout that district to Union Academy High School. And that was the first year, Principal James Stevens, I guess you’ve heard a lot about him.

That was his first year. Those who participated in sports, and especially football, we had no transportation to get us home, and we would walk from the school all the way through downtown, to the [inaudible 12:50] which is about two and three quarter miles, and usually it was always a certain truck to come by to pick us up and they would drop us off on Mulberry. Those of us who didn’t live in Mulberry, we had four miles to Pierce, we start walking. Many days, we’d walk that far.

Some days, we’d catch a ride to go home. And our uniforms we practice in because we had to take them and clean them and bring them back the next day clean. And do you know for some reason, that didn’t seem to bother us as much. I look at it now. It must have been something. Students wouldn’t do that today, I don’t believe. But we did it, and we made it red. Good football team, but the rules at that time, they didn’t have a good athletic association. Now, I remember our principal wouldn’t let anybody play football that didn’t go to school on a regular basis. But we had to play schools. I’d never forget when we traveled, when we went to, was that, Bradenton, when we got there, half of the people playing football came in from work and dressed. Some of them was much older, but they allowed that to play. But our principal would not allow anybody to play football if they weren’t regularly enrolled and going to school on a regular basis. And few





years later, they managed to get what they call an athletic association, which then stopped all of that, and set rules for passing. They had to have certain grades before they could play. And that made a difference.

	W:	What other activities were you involved with in high school, from your ninth to twelfth grade year?

	C:	I played football and basketball. We didn’t have what we call a regular track team. But I did what we have, what we call intramural track and field. I participated in that. And they had, at one year, there was a baseball team. I never did play that with the school. But my thing was basketball and football. I played both varsity basketball and varsity football.

	W:	Who was the football coach?



	C:	Wadley was his name during our time. And we developed, my last year, we had a very good football team, and the state, they decided that they wanted a big playoff between two good teams. They set that up in Lakeland, between Bartow and Booker T. Washington of Miami. And they had a young man who was being recruited everywhere from all the Black higher colleges at that time. His name was Booker England. And he was something. They were supposed to have slaughtered us, but they beat us thirteen-seven. We were leading the last three minutes of the game, and that same guy, Booker T, broke our back with about a sixty-eight yard run. But we played pretty good football during that time.

	W:	Did you have a good band?





C:  During my years, we didn’t have a band at the school. When I came back from college, and the first year after I came back from college, then we developed a band. But we didn’t have a band.

W:   So you graduated and you went away to school. Where did you go to college?



	C:	I graduated in 1950. My first year was at Bethune-Cookman. And I played football there. I went there on a scholarship, played football and was drafted in the service, which I had to leave there at January. I made the team in mid- August, during that time. And I was drafted in the 7643, and I went in from there to Camp Landon, and from there to Camp Tyson. I was put in [inaudible 16:57] called the Barrage Balloon Outfit, and they were prepping us for the invasion.

The Balloons were supposed to have been the deterrent for dive bombers, that the balloons were filled with helium. And we had what we call a Guest Wrench, with heavy wire on it. It was steel, like a steel iron. That helium balloon would lift that up in the air. It would be a deterrent, the British first started that [inaudible 17:33]. Our mission was to go in on the invasion. Well, for me, in June, and that’s when everything was set up, we were pulled out to go to England. They pulled me off the train to stay there as [inaudible 17:52]. My group went in, and they went in. If you see a lot of the films of invasion, you will see some of that. They went in on the third wave, and the captain of it got killed.

	W:	What was his name?



	C:	You know, I can’t think of his name. During that time, in our outfits, in Black outfits, we didn’t have any Black officers, Black sergeants and all. I can’t think of that captain’s name, I really can’t at this time.





	W:	Do you remember your drill sergeant from basic?



	C:	Yes, Sergeant Bullard was one of the guys that I remember. For some reason in my outfit, by me having a first year in college, I got a quick promotion. It didn’t take longer from private first class to corporal and then sergeant [inaudible 19:00]. And I was left back there for training. After that, they then disbanded us, and they sent me to Fort Braggs, North Carolina. And a field artillery outfit, that’s where I saw the signs that they were recruiting Blacks for paratroopers. I signed up. But they shipped me from there to Fort Bliss, Texas, to an antiaircraft outfit. Like I said, I did four or five months before I was called back for the training. The test group of the Black paratroopers, it was twenty guys, and out of the twenty, seventeen qualified. That was called considerably a high percentage. And shortly after that, I was in the first Black platoon [inaudible at 19:54]. And they began building from then. And I was in the first platoon. We eventually built up to a Botanical. That outfit, from the top down, all our officers were Black. We trained, and you can imagine, the pride of the Blacks, that they demanded so much from us because they wanted to prove, because the saying was, the same as Tuskeegee, what time an official said that Blacks were too dumb to fly. They also said that we were too scared to jump. [Laughter] I mean those were actually things that came out of our leaders, our seniors, and they wanted to prove that we could do as good as anybody. And we did train hard. We had maneuvers [inaudible 20:49]. And when the Battle of the Boves got hot, they were getting ready to send those groups over there. They pulled us out of the 82nd and sent us to Pendleton, Oregon, on what we call, a secret mission. The Japs were





sending incendiary bombs by the jet stream, and they were landing, somebody said as far as Indiana. Most of them was landing up in the Northwest, in the mountainous areas where there is a lot of forest and a lot of forest fires were set. And they would show up [inaudible at 21:27]. But at the same time, we learned to detonate those bombs that didn’t go off. The record shows that they sent nine thousand. A thousand reached the shores. And so many of them exploded. They didn’t do much damage, some did. One family was killed with the bomb that didn’t explode. They went to investigate it, and it killed six. But that was our—we thought we were going West to fight the Japs. We had to learn to jump all over again. Instead of landing on the ground, we had to land in those trees. You know out that area, Sequoyah and Redwoods. Then we had one fellow, we had one death because the rope wasn’t long enough. And it came and he thought he was close to the ground [inaudible 22:27] and the rocks, but we had quite a few injuries from guys missing the trees because they told us that the ground looked like it was clear, but most of it was rugged land and stumps. And also, you had to land in the trees and come down on the rope. Fighting fires, that was odd, that was different. [Laughter] It’s not as easy as people think. In fact, we had rangers to assist us, and they were very good in helping us to fight fires. Sometimes, we would fly in and most of the time, we had to jump. And that was a new experience.

	W:	How long did you have that assignment?



	C:	I was only in the troopers about a year and two months. W:	And then the war ended, or what happened?





	C:	The war ended, and so many of them stayed in service, but I wanted to go back to school. And I left there and went back to school. I couldn’t get into a Florida school the first time I came out because it was so crowded. And they allowed me to go to North Carolina in Teed. They said, well, we don’t have any rooms, but if you can find a place to stay, we’ll enroll you. Florida schools, at that time, were not enrolling if I was late applying, and they said I had to wait another year. I didn’t want to do that, so I went to North Carolina in Teed, and stayed there four years and graduated.

	W:	What did you get your degree in?



	C:	In Mathematics, and also, I had physical education and science. [inaudible 24:05] W:	Did you have to apply for a teaching certificate before coming back to Union

Academy, or how did you get into teaching?



	C:	Yeah, you have to. I was certified in North Carolina, but when I got to Florida, I also had to get Florida certification, so I had to go back to summer school, one summer abroad to get Florida certified. There was a course that they said I had to have. And when I came back, I was getting ready to go, not to teaching because there was a lot of work available. I had friends who were working in General Motors and places like that. But my principal, Mr. Stevens, he had already set up everything, so I just moved and signed up where I had a job. I came out, and I taught, and I was assigned to coaching also. So I was assistant football coach and eventually became football and track coach. I coach the track and field. Coach Woodruff was the first one to bring track to our school. He also came in and revised our offense, which you can see was a very successful





football team. During that time, we had very successful football. I guess you heard about some of the players and all [inaudible 25:31].

	W:	Could you mention a few notables, however?



	C:	Well, yeah, I guess you could put one who is here tonight Kim Riley, Sam Silas, Jerry Simmons, LayJay Hazelton, Nathaniel James. I should know all of them because I coached all of them. One guy was Smith, what was—I can’t think of his last name, and Marshall Bush, I think, played a little; I don’t know how long he played. Also one of the boys named called Dukes, he’s here tonight. He played semi-pro football. Right off, I can’t call all the fellas. [Laughter] I am getting to that point that things don’t come to me like they used to. See, I was born in [19]22.

This year, I will be 90 years old in November.



	W:	It’s a blessing. Congratulations.



	C:	It is a blessing. I feel blessed. I tell them when I wake up now, it’s so good to know that I know who I am and where I am. [Laughter]

	W:	What was your philosophy as a football coach? Did you coach the offense or the defense? Was it toughness? What did you tell the players?

	C:	For the start, I coach offense and the defense in the line, the middle of the line. The big thing was to try to get guys to be able to feel confidence in themselves. You’ve got to believe that you can do something. You can’t listen to what somebody else is telling you. You’ve got to know that this is you and you can do it. And it was amazing that some of the fellas will be taught and coached and even though they were little and the kind of performance that they gave us was just exceptional. One of the things that we believed in, and that is you had to be





in top condition. We beat a lot of teams in the last quarter because of our conditioning. And all the other fellas spoke about it a lot, but they began to feel that it was necessary and they worked hard at it. One of the other things that I thought we were here as coaches. We had a good head coach as far as McKinney. He was a good organizer. Claude Woodruff came in, we started going to football clinics with FAMU. And J. Gates would have top coaches in the country there. We picked up on something of how they plan, and we brought it back. And during our summer months, when we weren’t in school, with Coach McKinney, we would set up a schedule and break it down on how much time we would spend on each phase of the game before we play our first game. And that put us in a position, when we play, we were ready in every area in kicking game, in the running game, in the game if we are on the twenty-yard line, how much time we have, we went through all the outfields well. Our kicking game was powerful. We had every phase of our game intact. I think that was the reason why we had so much success. Because our guys knew, their quarterback knew what to do—if it was the last two minutes of the first half, whether were ahead, whether we were behind, what position we were on the field, we practiced all of that. We got all of that by going to these clinics and, you know, learning from the people who had really planned. And we brought that, we did that in high school.

	W:	Because of the preponderance now that a lot of players don’t go to the historically Black colleges like they used to, people might not know about Eddie Robinson and Jake Gaither. But could you talk Jake Gaither, and what it was like to meet him and be influenced by him?





	C:	I never did go under him, but Claude Woodruff, and he always talked about Jake Gaither and his philosophy, how he got HD for guys. He felt almost like a dad to most of them. But Jake would come to school every year and recruit guys. There was something about his atmosphere that make you feel good around him. And I understand and talking to Claude that he would invite the guys even to his house. You know, he is a college kid, and he would invite them to his house and everything. But he demanded respect. He demanded respect. He demanded hard work from the guys. He didn’t have any favorites, didn’t show any of favoritism. But you had to do your work. And Claude Woodruff was a small man, but he played varsity line. Cause he had gone to the Marines and came out. For a little man, he was one of the toughest little fellows I’ve ever seen. But I just think that Jake’s philosophy was his ability to get close to guys. He always said, you know, he said, “As a coach, we get closer to them than their dads. We see them when they’re buck naked.” [Laughter] “We see them when they have a problem. We know when they’re up, when they’re down.” And I guess if you have that kind of attitude, if you have that feeling, you can get through to guys, get them to trust you.

	W:	You played a little bit at the Bethune-Cookman college. Who was the coach there? And did you learn any lessons from that coach?

C:  Yes, I did. His name was—what was his first name? He was a Peterson. The one thing about it—during that time, so many of the guys were being pulled out, going into the service. And we played a lot of teams where they had the same problem. I was put on the first team immediately, and I played guard and center. And also,





I did defense plenty of time. But Coach Peterson—what I like about him, he was another one that believed in conditioning, that you had to be in condition and in good shape. And we worked hard there in getting in shape. For a college coach at that time, he didn’t have that much help. I only remember two additional coaches that assisted him. But he demanded the players to be on the field in time. He demanded you when you work out, that you put everything that you had into it. We had a pretty good football team, but you could tell the difference in most of the colleges, so many of the fellows get in service. But we did have some good players at that time. I think it made it easier for guys like me before I was drafted.

	W:	What about coaching track? What do you enjoy about that? What memories can you share from that?

	C:	Now, that was one of—I learned to really enjoy coaching track. It turned out to be one of my favorites. I ended up being the head track coach at Union Academy and Apopka High School. And I was fortunate enough before I left Union Academy, we won the state championship of the Black organization. We also won; we were champions in our division. That was the last year at Union Academy when the associations integrated, and we won in our class. We won the state that year, Bartow, Union Academy and Bartow High School won. And Orlando, they call it what? The track capital of the state at that time. So I had a championship, and then I was made head track coach over at the high school my second year there I was assistant. And I had two state championships there, and in [20]08, I was inducted into the Florida High School Athletic Association.





	W:	When that occurred, what reflections did you have on your career and being honored in that way?

	C:	Well, the reflection I had was that I felt fortunate that I came along during a time that the type of kids that we worked with was much easier than what I see today. They were much more, it seems like, into it. They were easier to discipline, seems like it. They had a lot more interest. And we had some very good track teams during that time. And I was able to—and a lot of schools sometimes, the football coach likes to dominate it on what boys would do, this or that. I would find kids that didn’t play football and start them out early. We had the summer games, the AAU track meets. During that time I developed some very good track kids. But also the football players saw that I had no problem. One of the coaches didn’t want them to play, but they threatened not to play football if they couldn’t run track, so he had to let that go. That allowed me to have some very good track, even the years that I didn’t run the state, we for the most part, run the district or the regional, and would come close in the state. I had some really good years as a track coach.

	W:	What about teaching in the classroom? What are some of your memorable experiences or interesting situations with students from teaching?

	C:	You know, with the reunion going on now, I hear kids say things you don’t realize how you have affected them or touched them, of some of the things they tell me. A lot of kids that majored in math said that I was the reason; that I had prepared them better than most kids did when they went to college, had to go back and take what they call remedial subjects and all. And they were ready. The thing that





I guess helped me a bit, that I could give my principal. When I first started teaching, they didn’t teach me how to come down to the students’ level. They got the book, and I thought the students would be able to move. I had to slow down and find out that you couldn’t just do that. My principal came in and worked with me about six weeks. I didn’t like all the methods. He was pretty tough, but he showed me some things because I wanted to move on with the book, move on real quick. You’ve got to make sure, if you can’t do one step, if you miss one step in Algebra or Geometry, go on to the next step and don’t know that one, you’re gonna fail. So that helped me out to make sure that I would get my students ready to move from one phase to the next. And those who were a little slow, we had ways of getting there. Other students who helped them and made sure that they could keep up. And the students talk about that now, and they appreciate it, that we took that kind of time.

	W:	I’ve heard from many of the teachers and even the students that were from predominantly—well all Black high schools before integration, that some of the tools that they were going to use to be successful students are taken away from the schools by the state. Could you talk about some of those tools and the difference, in your opinion?

	C:	I guess one of the things helped us going back to this—that we had, far as I can remember I had support from most parents. And that to me, that’s number one, getting support from the parents. And of course, that means you have to cooperate with the parents and let the parents know what is going on. And when the students know that, you can get their attention. Some of the things I think





they have taken away now, you know it was no problem for me to go up and hug a student. I’ve had a student [inaudible 38:43]. You have to be careful with that now. Students would say, “You don’t touch me. You tried to hug me.” It really takes away a lot of the type of closeness that you can get to a student. ‘Cause the closer you get to students, the more you can get out of them. Now, I know that some of the things that are going on that some of these laws were brought about, but you know a lot of times, we do knee-jerk action at making laws. We hurt more people than we help. And I just think a lot of these laws that we make—you can determine whether or not a teacher is abusing a student or not, or whether a parent is abusing a student. It’s tough now for parents and teachers. We didn’t have that coming up.

	W:	What is your definition of leadership?



	C:	Being a good follower. I would say, being able to, by not by words, but by example. The way you walk, the way you talk, what you do, what you say.

	W:	I would like to address just some random historical events and get your perspective on some of them. And you can react any way you choose or choose not to react. At the end of WWII, the victory over Japan, what was that like?

	C:	I guess if you go back in the history, after each war in this country, we made a little bit more progress toward getting on an even level. Let me go back to something that happened during the time I was in the service. When I first got my wings as a paratrooper, when at the time, they told us, you must have all your papers. First thing I met was an MP who said, boy, you aren’t in uniform, that kind of stuff. When I was going home on the train through Texas stopped to get





out, we wanted to get some food, and they wouldn’t let us come through the front door. They would say, you can go through the back door. But then, the next thing two of us noticed they were marching about eighteen to nineteen prisoners, Italians and Germans. And they sat them down. I was in uniform. And those were the things that hit you. Those were the kinds of things that hit you. And right after the second world war, and I guess if you checked the record for even back here in Bartow, there was some tough things going on, and there was an atmosphere of we’re going to put you back in your place. I came to Bartow with a group, and the police followed us. And he came and drew the pistol on us and then told us, if you boys think you can come over here like you did overseas, and mess with them White girls, you know [inaudible 42:24]. Those were some of the things that we ran into. But on the other hand, and this is noticeable, during the wars and conflicts, there is always a little bit of progress because guys feel that they aren’t going to take what they used to take. They would work harder towards making a difference. And after the second war, even though it took a while before we got complete integration. But for a while, there were some real problems with people who were, you know, you’ve been in the service, you had a little freedom, [inaudible 43:05]. It was pretty tough.

	W:	Bartow? Just Bartow?



	C:	Well when you live in a community and know the people, there’s some great people here. And I love the community. We worked hard in trying to develop what we called Diversity Community Relations. And from both sides, you’re always gonna have some people on both sides that just say, it’s a little difficult in coming





together. We’ve had, when it comes to elected officials, we still have one on the city commission. But we’ve had for the most two or three state commissioners. I was the second person elected to the school board, and I stayed on the school board, too. And we still have groups that are living together all the time, trying to improve relations. And there are good relations. But you always gonna have a certain amount of people that are not gonna see quite that way. But overall, we have pretty good relations because they are so much educated people, so much. I mean, there is still that feeling of some people not wanting to move in this position, to be able to go from this place or to do this. But for the most part, we have very good relationships. And it took a while to develop that. But there is a lot more to be done.

	W:	Martin Luther King?



	C:	One of the greatest. I don’t know what to say of people like Martin Luther King and what is his name, the African?

	W:	Malcolm X?



	C:	No, no.



	W:	Jomo Kenyatta?



	C:	No, no, I’m talking about the one that came out of the prison. My age is getting to be a problem. He is ninety-four years old.

	W:	Nelson Mandela.



	C:	Yes, Nelson Mandela. People like that and Martin Luther King, what are you gonna say about them? They are great leaders, and they have something that we don’t quite understand. They’ve been instilled with something greater than the





power of man, I would say. Martin and the things he did and the sacrifices he made, what we’re enjoying, what can you say?

	W:	Do you remember where you were when you heard that he had been killed?



	C:	Yeah, I still do. Boy, was that a shock. I was at home. It put a numbness on me. [Interruption in interview]

	L:	All right, why don’t we close with this? A higher power is concluding our interviewing. So I want to thank you, Mr. Corbett, for the time you spent on the behalf of the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program, and I’d like to leave you a final privilege, any comment that you would like to make to close the interview. And these will be my final comments. When you finish that will be the end of the interview.

	C:	I just wanna say that I appreciate the opportunity to be able to speak about our great students at Union Academy, the people who went to school there, the people, the teachers, those who graduated and what they’re doing today. We’re blessed. Thank you.

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Faithful Okoye, October 2012

	Will Collum, February 2013 Audit edited by:	Holland Hall, June 27, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 22, 2019