AAHP 258; Blair; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 258 Lexington Blair African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Anthony J. Pierce on February 27, 2012 15 minutes | 9 pages



Abstract: Born in August 28, 1932, Lexington Blair recalls his time working on the fields in the 1950s as well as the race relations in his community. Living during segregation, Mr. Blair reminisces on several instances of racism in his life such as being unable to sit in restaurants or see the cook who is preparing the food. He also states the racial slurs that he was called while living there as well as the violence exhibited when integration was introduced in 1964. MR Blair then goes into detail regarding the differences between races in both Jamaica and the United States. Rather than racism, in Jamaica it was more of financial status and therefore presented a shock to Mr. Blair. He then expresses his joy in witnessing the first Black President come into office and hopes the future generations take advantage of as many opportunities as they can in life.



Keywords: [African American History; Polk County, Florida; Segregation]

















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 258

Interviewee: Lexington Blair Interviewer: Anthony J Pierce Date: February 27, 2012



	B:	They know about those kind of things. I’ll tell you, you know, last night they were looking at a kind of program on TV and they was showing about, you know, Martin Luther King, you know. All this stuff about segregation was and how it come to be integrated and those kind of stuff. I watched the whole thing last night, yeah.

	P:	Okay, the first thing we’re going to do—Today’s date is February 27. B:	Uh-huh, 2012.

	P:	Will you please state your name? First and last name. B:	Lexington S. Blair.

	P:	Are you comfortable with sharing your age? B:	No.

	P:	You want to keep your age a secret. B:	No. No, my age is seventy-nine.

	P:	Seventy-nine, okay. B:	Born 1932 August, 28.

	P:	Okay, were you born in Polk County? B:	No, I was born in Jamaica.

	P:	Okay, so how and when did you come to live here? B:	Twelfth of June, 1956.

	P:	Okay. So why did you make the move to come here? B:	Well, I tried to get better on situation, you know.

	P:	Okay.





	B:	We come on a contract. We called it some kind of people contract. It was a three year contract.

	P:	So you had to renew your contract after the three years or—?



	B:	Well, well I didn’t have to but because who I work for— I spent three years going back to Jamaica. Spend three weeks and come back in [19]59. I go home in [19]59, come back in [19]59.

	P:	Okay. And so what type of work were you doing while you were here?



	B:	I was— well, mostly picking like you know apples, oranges, peaches and those kind of stuff.

	P:	Okay, a lot of fruit.



	B:	Yeah. Yeah, fruit and mostly some guy working sugarcane but I never did. I just worked in fruit.

	P:	Okay, now what were race relations like between Blacks and Whites during that time?

	B:	What, what was the difference between? P:	How did they interact?

	B:	Well, it was segregation. Segregation between Blacks and White. It was terrible. P:	It was terrible.

	B:	Yes it was. Yes it was.



	P:	Okay, so with the segregation what type of things were taking place to make it so terrible? Can you give some examples—?

	B:	Well, it’s just a matter of, there’s certain restaurant that White couldn’t go where the Black go for the restroom, stuff like that. On the outside door when you go to





sit in restaurant you just get the food. You don’t see who cook it, and you put it through a hole, the food come to you and you give them money and you don’t know what kind of situation it was. There are place that the White go where the Black couldn’t go. During that time, there wasn’t a Negro, there wasn’t African American. It was nigger. That’s basically what it was. They called Black people nigger. So that’s basically the way it was back in those time until integration come ‘round in [19]64. Yeah.

	P:	So in [19]64 how did you—what type of change did you see? Was it easy, was it violent?

	B:	Well it’s violent, it’s violent to get segregation. ‘Cause it was violent during segregation time, between the Blacks and the Whites. After integration come in then, you know, the change was made. Not the whole ‘cause we’re still going through the same thing in certain different things, you know.

	P:	So, what unique challenges did you face being that you were from Jamaica?



Being a Jamaican immigrant.



	B:	Well, well we challenged us our Black and we. We were not allowed to do the White thing. They tell us when we come in here that we do segregation, we got to stay in our bound, you know, not to be with the Whites and stuff like that.

	P:	So Whites just treated you the same as the rest of the Blacks? B:	Yes they did. Yes they did.

	P:	And how did Black Americans treat you?





	B:	Oh well, it was alright I had no problem. You were Black, you were Black. That’s the way it was. You were White, you were White. I had no problem with Black American.

	P:	So what was the difference you think, the biggest difference, between being in Jamaica and then coming to the states with the racists?

	B:	Oh, it’s a lots of difference. Only because I started to go back home after I came here and see the segregation between the White and the Black because we don’t have that in Jamaica. In Jamaica, you just, you don’t mind being, we don’t, we don’t use this thing color and everything in Jamaica. No. The White in Jamaica is a rich man. I don’t care how White he is or how Black he is. If you’re rich, like you’re White, we don’t have this segregation. We don’t have it back in Jamaica.

	P:	So the differences in Jamaica were more with financial status? B:	Yeah.

	P:	As opposed to race. B:	Yeah, that’s right.

	P:	Okay, so that would mean you receive discrimination only from the Whites, not other Blacks, too?

	B:	Yeah, yeah that’s right.



	P:	Okay. So, did you have jobs other than dealing with fruit while you were here? B:	Yes. And they were construction.

	P:	You did construction.



	B:	Yeah, twenty-three years.



	P:	So how did you go from a contracted fruit worker to dealing with construction?





	B:	Well, after I become a permanent resident, then I could go and get the job any place I wanted to. But before then I just got to steer with the fruit. I become a permanent resident I could go to different ventures, jobs where I wanted to.

	P:	Okay. Did you have any type of involvement in your community when you were here?

	B:	Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah.



	P:	So that was mainly through what?



B:  Through, between, the Black and the White. And the Blacks and Blacks. White and White, you know. I never involved in it. I just was in the area. I was living in the area with all those kind of stuff. But I never involved in it, you know.

	P:	Okay, if you could change anything would you do something you wish you would have done or not do something that you wish you had not done?

	B:	Well if there’s anything I could have done Tony, I would talk to my son to everybody just living and loving with one another. That’s what living is about, you know, just try to be loving because we are God’s children and the Lord didn’t mean for us to be living, you know. So we go against one another, and those kinds of stuff. No, the Lord didn’t want us to be like that. If I could change it, I’d just change everything for people to be living loving with one another.

	P:	With one another, okay. Now, you mentioned about God’s will for how us that we should love one another—

	B:	Yeah.



	P:	So, I take it that you’re a churchgoing man? B:	Yes sir.





	P:	And so, did you grow up in the church? B:	Yes sir, all my life.

	P:	All of your life. So how important was the church with race relations growing up?



	B:	Well, it’s been good because my mom the one brought us up. But, we just had the determination to go to church because we walked five miles to the church. And when we go like for eleven o’clock service, sometimes we don’t come back home until twelve o’clock at night because it be so far. And also to school, I would walk five miles to school, back in Jamaica. We didn’t have these school buses like they have all kinds of stuff here, you know.

	P:	So do you think there’s been a change since when you first came here to the states between Blacks, Whites, and Caribbeans?

	B:	Ooh, yes it is. Yes it is. Big changes made. Big changes made. P:	Okay, how do you think it’s changed the most?

	B:	Well between the Blacks, you can live where you wanted to live, you know.



Before because all this here used to be White. No Black lived down here, so I was glad when it integrated where Blacks and Whites could live together, you know, like it is now. And that never should be like it is back then, you know, ‘cause we’re God’s children, we’re supposed to live loving with one another.

	P:	Okay, and have you had family come from Jamaica to come visit or come live here?

	B:	Come live here, got family live here. Brother and sister.



	P:	And do you feel like the culture change with people being so involved with race as opposed to financial was shocking for them?





	B:	No. Financial didn’t have anything to do with it. You know, it’s just a matter of the way the people were living with one another. Because you have poor White, you got poor Blacks, you know. The thing about it, being integrated, a Black person can just about get a job anywhere the White person can work. And back then it wasn’t like that, the only place a Black person could work was back in the kitchen cooking or cleaning the White man house and stuff like that. That’s the way it was. But now things have changed, God bless Dr. Martin Luther King and John

F. Kennedy. You know what I mean. And then you can go anywhere to work and anything, you qualify for the job you can get it. You can, look at you and say because they do do it. Now I know they do it, not like it was when somebody could say we’re not hiring a nigger or no we’re not hiring Blacks or whatnot. They just can’t do that. They do it but, you know, they can’t just come out and tell you like it was then. Back then they definitely tell you, call you all kinds of names, and tell you definitely that they couldn’t hire you because who you are.

P:  Now you mentioned, Dr. Martin Luther King and President John F. Kennedy. So what does it mean to you to have a first Black president?

B:  Oh Lord, I’ll tell you. I pray every day because it’s surprise to me, I lived to see a Black president. And like I said I know how— I lived to see how it was compared to what it is now. No, and it means a whole lot to me.

P:  And do you think that the generation today take advantage of the opportunities that they have, given—?

B:  Not, not like they should. P:  Not like they should—





	B:	Not like they should.



	P:	Okay. So what advice would you give younger generations?



	B:	Well, I would tell them just take the opportunity that you have. Make use of it because you never know what might happen. If it turn back like it was just to take advantage of the opportunity.

	P:	Okay. So, my last question: what do you wish you knew then when you were younger that you know now?

	B:	I’m saying I know I’ve always been a person you know, serve God, gone to church. I always do that when I was young, and I’m still doing it. It’s just a matter of I just—the people who are living like they’re human beings, they were living like human beings, like the Lord would like us to live. God want us to live love with one another and we weren’t doing that.

	P:	So since the most important thing to you is understanding needing to love one another—

	B:	Yes.



	P:	Since you knew that growing up— B:	Yes, yes yes.

	P:	Okay.



	B:	I would like that all my life coming up. You know, learn to love one another. P:	Okay. Well that concludes our interview. I thank you for your time.

	B:	Yeah? That wasn’t long. [Laughter] P:	See, wasn’t that bad.





	Transcribed by:	Priya Amilineni, August 2017



	Audit edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, February 15, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 22, 2019