AAHP 494; Daniels; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 494 Cornelius Davis African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Ann Smith on June 15, 2017 49 minutes | 18 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 494

Interviewee: Cornelius Davis Interviewer: Ann Smith Date: June 15, 2017



	S:	My name is Ann Smith and I am a volunteer with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. We will also be sending this to the Library of Congress for their Veteran’s History Project. The date is June 15th, and I’m at the Atrium. I’m interviewing Cornelius Davis. Is that right?

	D:	That’s me. Yes.



	S:	Uh-huh. Cornelius Davis? D:	Yes.

	S:	You want to spell it for the record? D:	C-O-R-N-E-L-I-U-S, D-A-V-I-S.

	S:	Okay. Thank you. And now tell me first of all, where you were born.



	D:	I was born in Blountstown, Florida. That’s in the panhandle of Florida, upon the Apalachicola River. About fifty miles, I believe that’s west of Tallahassee and so that’s fifty miles out of Panama City, Florida. Yeah. I—

	S:	And will you tell me when? D:	March 12, 1921.

	S:	1921.



D:  Yeah. I finished junior high school in Blountstown, Florida. I can’t tell you the year, but I went to Pensacola, Florida the high school, Booker T. Washington High School in Pensacola, Florida.

S:  Did you like school? D:  Yes.

	S:	Did you?





	D:	Yeah. It helped me a lot.



	S:	Did you have sisters and brothers?



	D:	I got one brother and four sisters. I was the baby. But I had a rough childhood.



When I was five—wait no, let me see—. Yeah, I think I was around five years old. I lost my mother in an accident. She was drowned.

	S:	Oh, dear.



	D:	And I developed ulcers. When I was five years old I had ulcers. S:	So it took a toll on you.

	D:	I was sick. I was—ah, everything—. And most of my life I’ve had that problem of ulcers. I never have been able to get rid of it. I’ve gotten better. I’ve improved in certain things, in certain treatments and things. It improved, but I had to be careful even now. I get sick. I—yeah.

	S:	So that’s something you’ve dealt with all your life.



	D:	All my life. And being a kid to have ulcers. Yeah that’s something. You sick and you trynna explain to an adult how sick you are. I’ve been sick.

	S:	Well did you have fun as a child? Did you play games? What did you do for fun with your sisters and brothers?

	D:	Let me think. My family was brought up in the church and my father was superintendent of the Sunday school. He was just an ordinary father, but he was pretty talented in so many ways.

	S:	Is that right?



	D:	He was pretty good in music. He could play the organ and he could play—You know what a pipe is—?





	S:	Yes!



	D:	He could do that. Now what else? Then those two instruments he was good.



Then him and his brothers had drums. But I was brought up in the AME church. My father was superintendent of Sunday school. The community looked up to my father. A lot of time people would come to town and they go downtown and they thinkin’ about gettin’ some credit cards or something. They go into his store and they ask, “You know Mr. Jim Davis?” and, “Yeah well what does he say?” and “well I’m asking without trouble” they would say. And based on what my dad said you got that credit.

	S:	I think that’s wonderful. So he was seen as a man of character.



	D:	Oh, yeah. Nobody questioned what Mr. Jim said. [Laughter] If he said it, it was true. He had a brother. His brother had a pretty good sized family and then my family started growing from there. Then my sisters, they got married and they had families.

	S:	Now in the 1920s was life kind of hard in the panhandle? I mean, were there a lot of people who had trouble getting work?

	D:	Okay. Up there in the panhandle they had quite a bit employment. But it wasn’t, you know, a lot of time what some of the people wanted to do. But a lot of people worked at it and that was turpentine. My dad worked in turpentine when I was very young, but then when I got up to try to start working, he went to saw milling. This was a good size saw mill business. It was, I guess you’d put it in the—it was more than lumberer, because it was saw milling and veneer. You know anything about veneer?





	S:	Yes, I do.



	D:	Well, you could make a whole lot of cigar boxes out of them. Well, that’s when my dad started working. When I got some side, I started workin in that. I worked there where they started off with cigar boxes first you know. And not makin cigar boxes, but producing the material to make—

	S:	Yeah, I understand. Now when you were real little did you have electricity at home?

	D:	Pardon?



	S:	Did you have electricity at home? Or indoor plumbing? D:	No. We developed that.

	S:	Yeah, but that was real early for them.



	D:	That was really early. Like when I was six, up until I was like I guess six years old we didn’t have indoor plumbing. And then we got indoor plumbing.

	S:	Do you remember listening to the radio for the—in the first—? D:	Oh, yeah. I remember the Joe Louis fights—

	S:	—I was going to ask that next. [Laughter]



	D:	And a whole lot of other things on the radio. Gene Harvey and Hopalong Cassidy.

	S:	I know. The real classics. D:	Pardon?

	S:	They were real classics.



	D:	Oh, yeah. And I got interested in the Gwitz magazine. I don’t know whether you—That’s an old magazine years ago; it was called the Gwitz magazine. The





way we got this magazine, my mother did a little like extra job and this predominant family there, they were the bankers in Blountstown. She did a lot of laundry work for them. They threw a whole lot of their old papers in the clothes basket and we got it and one was the Guitz magazine. I started fooling around with that Guitz magazine and I got interested in the Burma Trail. I don’t know whether you know anything about the Burma Trail?

	S:	Not very much.



	D:	Yeah. That is the way they used to travel the world, right? Before Columbus. Over the Burma Trail. The Burma Trail started I think some place up around Japan, China, and came down East Asia down there. Down Japan and then down, somehow I wanna bring it—I don’t think that was the Great Wall of China, no—I think we’re dealing with the, up there in the North East there’s a big wall or something up there I wanna be in it. I’ve been there, I’ve been on it several times. But then, you come down there and you come down all the way to North Africa, down there. Now I traveled this.

	S:	When was that? Was that later in life or? D:	That was when I was like in my forties.

	S:	But you got interested in it just real early, when you—



D:  I got interested in it early. That was before I got into the military. But then after I, and while I was in the military, and after I got the chance to do a whole lot of this travelin.

S:   That’s wonderful. That’s a real advantage.





	D:	Yeah, I’ve been there. I don’t know when, I can’t tell you when it was [Laughter] but I’ve been there.

	S:	Well now, after you got out of school and you worked for a little while, then with the veneer and the particle board and that kind of thing—

	D:	Well, a lot of time I working with the veneer, I was in school.



	S:	Oh really? So you were working at the time you were in school? D:	Yeah, a little. Doing some a month.

	S:	Sure. And then when you got out of school, when you graduated? D:	I was at Ford Motor Company.

	S:	At Ford Motor Company? Where is that? D:	Detroit, Michigan.

	S:	And you went after you graduated from high school to Detroit? D:	Detroit.

	S:	How did that come about? Did you have—



	D:	I had an uncle and my brother in Detroit. My uncle was a Pullman porter and my brother was workin for Ford. I went to Detroit.

	S:	Good. The big city.



	D:	Yeah. And that’s when the war came along and then I went in the military, but when I got out, I went right back to Detroit. But a lot of that time I’m workin at Ford Motor Company in Detroit, but I’m pay roll—let’s see that ain’t the word I wanna use, I don’t believe—for the union, I was photographer for Ford local six- hundred in Detroit. That’s a big plant in Detroit; the big union there, I was the photographer and some other things at different times, for that local.





	S:	What kinds of pictures did they want you to take?



	D:	Well, let’s put it like this. We had a monthly edition paper that went into over a hundred thousand homes all over the world every month. I was doin the photography.

	S:	Oh, that’s wonderful. That’s a lot of responsibility.



	D:	Yeah. I photographed President Johnson, President Kennedy, Martin Luther King, Ms. King, Nelson and Winnie Mandela. Yeah. I met a lot of those people.

	S:	When did you learn how to be a photographer?



	D:	When I graduated from high school, my sister gave me a camera. You got a camera, you’re supposed to take pictures. [Laughter] But it was complicated and I wasn’t taken pictures with it, but I don’t care how complicated you are, I’m gonna take some pictures with you. I start tryin to learn how to take pictures with it. But it took me a while. It messed with my ulcers. It did everything. But I accomplished that. And luck would have it, I ran into this White couple. They had been all over the world, and he was the photographer and she was the dark room person. They sort of took me under their arm and nurtured me, and helped me out a whole lot. I got to be the photographer for Ford local six-hundred in Detroit. That’s when they took me under their wing, and I’d be taking pictures, and they’d look at them, you know, help me.

	S:	Give you suggestions.



	D:	Yeah. Composition and all that. Yeah.



	S:	I’m gonna stop this for a minute so that I can get a cough drop. Is that all right? D:	Okay.





	S:	I’m sorry about the interruption.



	D:	That’s okay. We started talking about the death of my mother and I don’t think we went into—

	S:	No we didn’t.



	D:	—Yeah, well she was on her way from fishing. She’d been fishin and on the way home she had to cross this creek. And crossing this creek she fell overboard and was drowned. Well I was only three or four years old and from her death I developed ulcers.

	S:	We talked about that. Your whole life—



	D:	Yeah, I had trouble with ulcers. I’ve been sick.



	S:	Well when you entered the Service now, is that when you were still working at Ford?

	D:	Pardon?



	S:	When you were working at Ford for the union and taking pictures, did you enter the Service? Did you—

	D:	Yeah, I was workin at Ford’s, and then I left Ford’s and went into the military. S:	Did you enlist? Or were you drafted?

	D:	I volunteered because I wanted to go into the Air Force. So, I volunteered with the Air Force. I went in and I don’t know anything, I’m in Tuskegee, Alabama. I go there and they decide to send me to Buckley Field, Colorado to school. So I left there and went to Colorado.

	S:	A lot of traveling already in your young life.



	D:	Yeah, and that was a big experience. Colorado was cold. [Laughter]





	S:	Colder than Detroit?



	D:	Yeah. Colder than a whole lot of places. But you had a lot of good days. You had a lot of sunshine. They used to say there “If you don’t like our weather, wait a minute.” It was gonna change. It might get worse, it might get better, but it was gonna change. It was so much to learn. So much to learn. You ever been to the Denver area?

	S:	Yes. Yes I have.



	D:	Okay. There’s Fitzsimons Hospital, military hospital. There were—let me see— Lowry Field, Air Force bombers, aircraft photographer, all that stuff. Okay, but then there was Lowry Field, that’s where I was. That was aircraft armament.

	S:	And that’s what you were training in?



	D:	Yeah, guns and fighter planes. Yeah. So I learned there and when I left there I went to South Carolina. I think that’s when I went back to South Carolina. Yeah and I spent quite a bit of time in South Carolina, because what was happening was a process they had developed. The first training of a pilot was at Tuskegee. When he finished Tuskegee, he could fly. But he wasn’t ready for combat. Then they would send him to Walterboro, South Carolina and we would develop from a person that knew how to fly an airplane to a fighter pilot. And a fighter pilot had to know how to fly and he had to know how to shoot. That was our department. We taught him how to shoot. We got the guns ready and prepared and the airplane ready for him, all he gotta do is pull the trigger. And then we’ve done our job in writing. He has nothing to worry about. Yeah. And that was our training. Get





perfected that when that pilot pushed that button those guns are gonna do what they was gonna—

	S:	Yeah, what a responsibility.



	D:	Yeah. You heard talk about the bullets going out through the propeller? S:	Yeah.

	D:	I used to do that. It’s called synchronization. These are high-powered guns, you ain’t huntin no captors. These thirty-seven millimeters, I mean, fifty calibers.

They go out, that propeller’s turnin, but those bullets are goin through that propeller, but they aren’t hitting the propeller. That was part of my job. To see that they were all synchronized and they weren’t going to hit the propeller. And getting everything ready for when that pilot got in and got the enemy in his sight, he could do his duty.

	S:	And so you were learning that or did you teach other people to do that?



D:   Well, I learned that and I taught in the process. We taught others to do it. See, as a team you got an airplane ready for combat. Now at the end of the war, because I had no combat experience, they made some type of special thing. I ended up in Italy to experience like a flight or two as the airplane’s taken off on a mission.

And they wanted me to have that experience and they got me to Italy for, I don’t know I might have been in around there for a couple of weeks or longer.

S:   How was that for you?



	D:	Oh, it was quite an experience. But I was a whole lotta interested in my jobs at Ford Motor Company at that time. We haven’t talked anything about Ford Motor Company.





	S:	Well, is that when you were the photographer for the union? D:	For the union. First I worked for Fords.

	S:	And then you were in the Service.



	D:	Yeah, then I was in the Service. But before I got in the Service, I was interested in my photography. So while I’m at Ford I’m learning this photography, and I get interested in that photographer. And then when I get in the union and they need a photographer, that was me. I photographed so many dignitary, like President Johnson, President Kennedy, President Obama, Martin Luther King—

	S:	Those are things you’ll never forget.



	D:	Yeah, Mrs. Roosevelt and all of that. See we had this paper that went in to over a hundred thousand homes all over the world, but it was monthly edition. I was doing that photography.

	S:	Well now, when did you leave the Service? How long were you in the military?



	D:	Thirty-nine months. I left military when I went back to Detroit but for a while I wasn’t in the military but every so often there’d be hotspot and they need some back up to support the military and I—maybe for two or three months— I’d been working at Ford but like as vacation time and there be like two or three months I’d be like in the military. I might be in no place. I’ve been in South America. I’ve been in Africa. I’ve been up there around the North Pole.

	S:	And they would call on you for your expertise in— D:	Yes.

	S:	With the armaments?





D:  What you do, you relieve somebody from a position so they can move up and take up what’s gotta be done today but you covered his job down there. I was several places like that.

S:  And they would call on you because you could do the job whilst somebody else was out?

D:  Yeah. Like the Bay of Pigs, you know anything about the Bay of Pigs? S:  Yes, I do.

	D:	Russia had this airplane in Cuba. And they wanted to fly it back to Russia, but they didn’t wanna upset the United States by coming too close and startin a war. And they had that airplane sitting down there in Cuba. Now I’m on leave from Ford Motor Company, but I’m down there someplace waitin on them to move that airplane outta there so I could get back to Ford. Now I might have been in that program like for maybe three or four months, but when production time for the cars I was back at Ford.

	S:	I see. Well now, when did you meet your wife?



	D:	I was in the military. I met my wife—I thought I’d never forget it, but I’m havin a problem bringin up the details—She had served in the military. She was a WAC.

	S:	What was her job?



	D:	She was in the ground forces. I’m tryna think— S:	Did she have an office job?

	D:	—No. She didn’t have nothing special. But she had a better education than I did because she was from around Southern University. You know anything about Southern University?





	S:	Not very much.



	D:	That’s Baton Rouge, Louisiana. She was born and raised around Southern University. Most of her family had some type of trainin out of Southern University. Well, a lot of her family and she did too.

	S:	Where did you meet her? Do you remember?



	D:	Let me see. We met in the military. I think that’s where we met but we didn’t get married in the military. We kept acquainted in the military. I’d never been afraid to travel and because of that I went a lot of places.

	S:	When you were married did she live in Detroit then when you were working at Ford?

	D:	Yeah. Wetherby Street in Detroit. We had a nice big house there. We lived pretty good. We had a motor home and I’m not talking about a travel trailer. I’m talking about a motor home. We used to fish a lot up in Canada. But then we used this motor home other than that too, a lot on family vacations. We had a good life.

She was with me for a while in South Carolina, Walterboro. We spent some good times in Walterboro.

	S:	And you have two children is that correct?



	D:	Yes. The son is the oldest and he’s up in North West Florida but both of them was born and raised in Detroit. But both of them loved Florida because they traveled and they spent so much time in Florida. See we had this family over in Jacksonville. You know anything about Jacksonville?

	S:	Yeah quite a lot. I have family that live in Jacksonville.





	D:	Okay, well I understand that this fellow’s gonna run for the mayor of Atlanta is from Jacksonville. John Eaves. It’s in Jacksonville, it’s a family there, they’re considered to be Black Jews. You know anything about that?

	S:	I don’t think so, but I know—



	D:	John Eaves is part of that family. I understand he’s running for mayor of Atlanta. Since I’ve been here, his wife has been here because she is part of my married family and had lunch with me. I haven’t got the details about it, but I know so much background in that. I’m really excited.

	S:	Well let me ask you a question. In so many places during the time of your particularly early life, most of the South was certainly segregated and probably there was a lot of segregation up North; what was your experience with that?

	D:	I’ve had all type of experiences. All kinds. In Blountstown, I was nothing but a kid but I get with this family. They were Bushes out of Quincy—I mean Florida—he ran, he owned drug store in Blountstown and I started workin for him around for him, for something and got in pretty tight with him. Then I started working at the drug store, and he loved to fish. And that’s how I got a chance to fish a lot of different places. Like all up there around Quincy and Marianna and Ponce de Leon—all up in there.

	S:	What did you like to fish for? What kind?



	D:	The favorite fish up there is a shellcracker. You know about it? S:	I’ve heard about ‘em.

	D:	You’ve heard about ‘em. Yeah, I caught a many one. A lot of them.



Shellcrackers. Yeah. Matter of fact I liked to go up to Dead Lake and if I get, it





just depends on what type of scheduling my daughter got. I might get a chance to go up there and get with my son for a day or two and we might go to the Dead Lakes.

	S:	Cause your son likes to fish too.



	D:	Oh yeah, yeah. He used to fish with me a lot in Canada and all around there.



	S:	Well now did you have any—when you were at Tuskegee— did you have any difficulties with segregation or?

	D:	That probably has always been there. But at different times I managed to stay out a lot, you know. Sometimes it’d be pretty tough, sometimes you go through some problems, but then you learn how to—

	S:	Yeah, be careful.



	D:	Analyze situations. And you don’t go into some things. S:	I think you’re right. I’ve heard that before.

	D:	But I’ve had some problems. Yeah. Because it was where you landed a lot of times. Then when you travelin you run into some situations out there, you don’t know how to handle ‘em sometimes.

	S:	Well that’s part of the reason I asked because the various places you went, you know—

	D:	Oh yeah. I’ve been in problems where I didn’t know what to do, you know. They say what you do is just be careful whatever you do. Try to make it work.

	S:	Well you strike me as somebody who’s more of a pacifist. Maybe because you were raised by your father and you aren’t lookin’ for a fight.

	D:	Yeah, well now. I wasn’t exactly raised by my father. My stepmother played in—





	S:	So she had a part in that, huh?



	D:	In my life, a big role in my life. Yeah.



	S:	When did your father marry your stepmother? Was it shortly after your mother died or?

	D:	Within a year. She married into, well I guess it wasn’t a problem for her, but it was, you know. I had four sisters and a brother and a father. But my father was such a discipline person. He didn’t believe in no slacking. He was up front, noted. If he said it, it was right.

	S:	Well what other stories do you want to tell me? What other stories either about the red tails or maybe getting together with some of the members or what about your medal? Tell me about going up and getting your congressional medal.

	D:	I was in Detroit and they want me to get this gold medal, but I gotta go to the Library of Congress to get it. So I get there and—they fly me over—and I get there and I locate where I’m supposed to go to get it and I went there and through the process they gives it to me. It wasn’t like ten minutes in my mind. I might have been there two or three days, but you know, they have it all set up and the president hands it to you and that made it.

	S:	That was pretty special. D:	Oh, yeah.

	S:	No wonder you have a picture of it on your wall.



	D:	Well, see. In moving and then I haven’t had the opportunity to preserve something that I would have liked to have kept. Because when I know they couldn’t tear the thing down and I’m on my way to the next location with whatever





they got. Somethings they kept, I woulda thrown away. But then a lot of things they threw away, I woulda kept. A lot of those things that I woulda kept would have played an important role and they would be on the wall. I think here today. So many pictures they had gotten rid of that I can’t even remember.

	S:	Yeah, it’s hard to weed those out. I’ve got a ton of ‘em. D:	Oh, yeah.

	S:	Well are there any other things that you haven’t told me? D:	Now let’s see, can I take this some other place?

	S:	The other thing is we can get together again sometime.



	D:	Okay. Yeah. You know I worked a lot. I kept two and three jobs. I’m workin at Fords in Detroit, but I’m deliverin new cars for nationwide auto brokers. All over the United States. Not a truckload of cars, one car at a time. Let’s say I pick up a car today out of Detroit, from a dealer in Detroit, but this car is goin to a customer, a nationwide auto broker, in Jacksonville, Florida. Two days later, probably, I’m delivering this car in Jacksonville, Florida. Now what you do? I hop on a airplane back to Detroit. What you goin do now? I’m gonna report back to Ford Motor Company. I report back to Ford Motor Company, and maybe I might work a month, longer or less, and then I got a car going to Seattle, Washington. So I drive this car to Seattle, hop on a airplane, back to Detroit.

	S:	That’s a lot of miles.



	D:	Lot of miles. Then when I get back to Detroit maybe I got a car going to Chicago.



Then I jump in this car, drop it off in Chicago. Now going some short distance sometime my wife—I would drive one car and she would drive one—then I’d drop





that car over and I’d hop in this other car and we’d be back to Detroit. Some short trip. And then some long trips, some long trip. Say we go and we got a car maybe going to Texas and one going to Indiana. What we do, she’d drive a car and I’d drive a car to Texas. We’d drop that car off, now I’m gonna get in this other car and drop it off in Indiana. We closer to home now, then we’d get in the airplane, fly back to Detroit. We did that seven times.

	S:	That’s kinda nice. Well I think probably what I’ll do is thank you for all your stories and your history and stop the recorder now. But I have a couple of other questions for you.

	D:	Okay. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Allie Sellers, September 20, 2018



	Audit-edit by:	Elisabeth Rios-Brooks, October 29, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, March 1, 2019