AAHP 664; Edwards; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 664 Lorenzo Edwards 5-27-2019

Interviewed by Joe Hartman and Cynthia Wilson Graham on May 27, 2019 121 minutes | 66 pages



Abstract: Reverend Dr. Lorenzo Edwards pastored for fifty years, became president of the Marion County chapter of the NAACP, was elected to the Ocala City Council, and served as the dean of minority affairs at Central Florida Community College. In this interview, he tells important stories from his own life. However, with Edwards’s extensive knowledge of Ocala—especially Ocala’s Black community—this oral history also documents the history of Ocala, Florida, from segregation, through integration, and to the present day. Edwards describes growing up during Jim Crow segregation, and he describes later fighting against that segregation through peaceful demonstrations and protests. He explains his educational history, from earning an AA at Central Florida Community College to earning a BA and an MA at the University of Florida. He tells the story of how he was motivated to preach—motivation which began when he found a Bible at a golf course he caddied at as a young man. He reflects on his impact on community members during his role as pastor at Mount Moriah.



Keywords: [African American history; Black history; Christianity; government; integration; Jim Crow; Marion County; NAACP; Ocala, Florida; religion; segregation]



AAHP 664

Interviewees: Lorenzo Edwards

Interviewer: Joe Hartman and Cynthia Wilson Graham Date: May 27, 2019



	H:	Good afternoon. My name is Joe Hartman, and I’m here with Reverend Dr.



Lorenzo Edwards at his home in Ocala, Florida on May twenty-seventh, 2019. Also joining us this afternoon is Cynthia Wilson Graham, photographer, educator, community advocate, and author of three books on Marion County African Americans and local African American history. We have the pleasure this afternoon to interview Dr. Edwards and ask him to tell us a little bit about his family, his childhood, his education, his career, and his interest and involvement with the Marion County community. This interview is being recorded in order for Dr. Edwards to share it with his family and also for potential inclusion in the collection of oral histories with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program at the University of Florida. So let me start, Dr. Edwards, by asking you to tell us your full name.

	E:	It’s Lorenzo Stanley Edwards.



	H:	Okay, and when and where were you born, Dr. Edwards?



	E:	April fifteenth, 1938, seven thirty-two southwest second street. H:	Here in Ocala?

	E:	Ocala.



	H:	Okay.



	E:	No zip codes at that time.



	H:	Okay. But they did—it was second street. It didn’t have a name?







	E:	Second street.



	H:	Okay. That’s interesting. Who were your parents?



	E:	My parents was Casper—that’s C-A-S-P-E-R—Edwards. No middle name. And Rose Bud—R-O-S-E two words B-U-D—Edwards.

	H:	Where were they from? Or what do you know about—



	E:	They were from the Fellowship area, west of Ocala. Nothing that I can tell you about it except that it was a community out there and everybody knew everybody. My dad lived on highway twenty-seven going into Williston, right at that Fellowship intersection. There’s a grocery store there. There’s always been a grocery store there, and a church, on the corner. So they lived just southeast— west—of that, right down the street. And that’s all I can tell you. I never knew my father’s father. I never knew my grandmother or my granddaddy on my father’s side. I never knew them. They were gone before I got into the world. My mother’s parents lived farther in into the Fellowship. A place called Butlersville. That’s what they called it, because there was a family there, in that area, that was by the name of Butler. It’s called Butlersville and that’s all I can tell you. Wasn’t anything down there but homes and farms and a church. That’s about all I can tell you about it.

	H:	Did you know her parents?



	E:	I knew my mother’s parents, yes. Both of them were living when I was born and lived for some time after I was born. In fact, my grandmother was named [inaudible 03:33] Robinson, and she lived with us. At that time we were living on







518 West Washington Street. 518. One of Malaber’s rental houses. Malaber Golden used to have a Golden store here, and he had a string of four or five houses up Washington Street there. We lived at 518. And she lived with us not too long, less than two years, and she passed. The most fundamental thing I can remember about her was that number one, she was real religious. She belonged to the Church of God and Christ on Fort Cane there, but she couldn’t make it too far from Fellowship there with no car, but she came when she could. When somebody would get up early in the morning to drive her horse and wagon all the way into Ocala area, she would be able to make it. That’s how they got to church. She lived with us, and I can remember that the church at that time did not believe in doctors. They believed that God could do anything, and they took that stance. But at that time, I didn’t know until later on in life that if you died out of the presence of a doctor, they had to find a way to put something on your death certificate the cause of death. And she died of pneumonia. The thing that I remember most about it was that she was in the bed sick, and I was in the room with her at the time, and there were elders from that church behind the door praying and singing, and she was dying, and it didn’t do any good. So that’s how I remember her. My grandfather moved from this area, Ocala. He didn’t live with us, but he moved with his second oldest daughter down in Center Hill, Florida.

And he lived down there until he was ninety-six years old, or thereabouts, and he passed. I don’t know from what.

	H:	Did you get to know him at all?







	E:	I got to know him whenever we were able to get over there into the Fellowship area. He was a farmer. They had quite a family. It was five boys and seven girls in that family. My mom was the youngest one. I can remember he farmed. He didn’t work for anybody. He farmed and hunted. They lived off the land. She would cook, put food on the stove. I reckon it wasn’t too much in the way of refrigeration back then that they would keep it hot. That’s how we would eat when we would go out there. When we went out there, it usually was a day or two that we stayed in that area. My mom being the last child—most of the children, when they got a chance, they left there. I had one aunt in Washington State, I had two in New York, and the rest of ‘em was in and around Florida. We had still in Center Hill. Something else down in that. Anyway.

	G:	So what was your grandfather’s name?



	E:	Fred Robinson. And my father’s father was Fred Edwards. In fact, my grandmother came out of it—you know the Magnons out there in—I can’t think of the name of the place.

	G:	Lusaint?



	E:	It was further up than Lusaint. Called it something. We’ll get it in a minute. But anyway, she was a Magnon. I’m related to most of those Magnons out there. [inaudible 00:08:12], she was the lady who sat in the rocking chair and rocked and rocked and sang and sang and sang. We used to sit there and hear her singing. That’s all I can remember about my grandmother. Because she took care of her children. Discipline.







	H:	They owned their land that they farmed?



	E:	They owned their land, yes. They owned their land. In fact, the Robinsons, which was my mother’s father and mother, and there was the Jenkins, which was my grandmother’s sister married a Jenkin. She became a Jenkin. And there was the Butlers. Those three, they owned around, I reckon, a hundred and twenty to forty acres of land in there that they farmed. It was even a place on there to fish.

	H:	And they raised food for themselves but also to take to market, as far as you know?

	E:	I don’t remember too much about the market. I remember mostly about them having a smokehouse where they smoked meat. They raised hogs, cows—not for dairy purposes but for eating purposes. And then they did the hunting. He was one who made his own moonshine, so he had him a good time. My grandmother did not drink. They was totally incompatible as far as that was concerned. She stayed right there, and they raised their children. One son—I don’t know what the issue was but he wasn’t the youngest. He was somewhere between five boys.

He passed. That’s the only thing. I don’t even remember his funeral. That was that. They lived from out there. We lived from out there. Somebody gobbled up the land pretty cheap and wasn’t long that it became horse farms. That’s what’s out there now.

	H:	Okay. So coming back to Ocala. You grew up and your parents right here. How many kids were in your family?







	E:	I had one brother. Somewhere along the line, I heard that I had a sister between my brother and I, but she didn’t make it. I think she died prior to being born, so a premature death. I don’t know nothing about her name or nothing. I know that my brother name. I have one older brother. His name is James Edwards.

	G:	Is he still living?



	E:	No, my brother passed five years ago. He was a deacon in Mount Moriah Baptist Church at the time, but that’s later in the story. He came out—we all grew up out of Hope Mill Baptist Church. But then I became Chief [inaudible 00:11:25], left the church altogether. Had to make money. We can get into that, I reckon, later.

	G:	So you say you all were raised here on 2nd Street? E:	Yes, we were.

	G:	It was wrong.



	E:	Yes, ‘cause we were on 1st Street and 2nd Street. Nothing down there for me to tell you anything that’s descriptive about it, except that there was three houses there. I don’t even know who owned those houses. But we was renting. We rented. We didn’t own no homes. My mom and them moved from Washington Street to 711 Southwest Broadway, and that’s the first time they owned a home. And they owned that home ‘till that bridge came down. And that bridge came down and it swooped up the—how you put it? Imminent domain?

	H:	Yep, that’s it. Imminent domain.







	E:	They had to move, and they moved over to 1618 Southwest 3rd Street, and that’s where Oakland passed.

	H:	How much older was your brother than you?



	E:	He was two years older. He was born August 1936, and I was born April 1938.



	H:	Tell me about your family life. What was it like growing up with your family? A typical day.

	E:	Typical day. The way my mom put it, she didn’t work for most of her life. My aunt worked at a—I don’t know what you call it—but they picked up dead animals and they cooked ‘em and they hauled it—the juice and remains, all of it—all of the way up to doctors in Florida near Jacksonville, and they made soap. They took that. That was his job, picking up dead animals. They cooked ‘em down here near San Jose in there or somewhere. Whatever they got out of it, I don’t know. The juices and things, they hauled it up to doctors in—they made soap. That’s all. Doctors in Florida, I remember that much. Other than that, my mom and dad was just people who said to us as their children, “Don’t get out of the sound of my voice. Don’t get that far away that you can’t hear me when I call you.” That was how I grew up. Most of the time listening for my mom to call me back from wherever we were. We had assigned chores to do, and I did ‘em. My brother didn’t like doing ‘em, wash dishes. So he was mostly outside raking the yards, and I was mostly inside cleaning up. We had to do it, because my mama didn’t have any girls. So we did. And later on, she taught us how to cook, and I happen to be a little more delicate, meticulous, whatever you wanna call it, when I’m







cooking. So I did the cooking and he would be doing the cleaning in the house. And at that time, my mom had started to work. In fact, she worked for the Malagars as an in-house maid for a few years. I can’t even tell you how long or when she quit anything. She did quit eventually. She lived with me in my declining years. That’s all I can tell you. Then died in the hospital. I don’t know if you remember when this big plant down here that made—Imma get to it in a second—it had something to do—it’s down there on twenty-seventh now, across the street there.

	G:	You’re not talking about something de la moss? E:	Who?

	G:	Moss?



	E:	Not moss, no. It was clay pipes or something they made down there in that area. And my dad worked down there. All I can remember about it, never been in there with him. Never had to pick up his check or anything like that. But he had to have on steel-toed boots, and somehow or another one of those pipes fell on his foot and injured his toe. And he went in there every day making those pipes. Kinda got to his toe, and he developed gangrene in his toe, and it went through his body, ‘cause my daddy was a tough cookie. He didn’t talk too much. He smoked cigarettes. He didn’t complain too much. So he was still—‘till it was time for him to go to the doctor, he couldn’t get his shoe on because of that foot. And they started to amputate, and that gangrene had gone all the way through his body and down to the other foot. And they started to amputate the toe, then the foot,







then the leg, and then they started the other toe and the leg. Eventually, the one that gangrene didn’t start was all the way up his right leg amputated up to that. Eventually, he died of a stroke or a heart attack. I can’t tell you which one, because back in those days, they had just kinda integrated the hospital so you can go up there into the main auditorium of the hospital, what we used to call the white section of the hospital. I can remember back when I was a child, they had a separate hospital where there was a wooden building in the back of Monroe, kinda in the west quarter of the hospital. I say in the west, but that was the only building that was there. And I had pneumonia, and they took me there. I don’t even remember my doctor’s name. But any rate, my dad died of a heart attack.

	H:	Did he recover from the gangrene, then?



	E:	No, he never recovered. Just kept chopping and chopping and chopping and chopping and chopping. One day I walked in the house right there on sixteen- eighteen southwest Third Street, and he could see me coming in the door. But one of his eyes went one way, and one went the other way, and I knew something was wrong. At that time, he didn’t have any legs, just partial legs. I picked him up and put him in the car. I carried him to the hospital. There was a lady doctor there by the name of—at that time, and she looked at him, and she just said, “He had a light stroke.” And I remember that that was the first time I asked, “What’s a light stroke? How did he have a stroke and you call it a light stroke?” And that’s because, I reckon, he could still move any parts of his body. But I asked for the first time I can ever remember in my life. I reckon I got a new sense. I asked for a second opinion. I got the second opinion. Dr. Fieldman. At







the time, he was an orthopedic doctor, but he told them to put him in a room, because he was in bad shape. And so, they put him in a room. That man came into the hospital in—I had just gotten here. I came not too long—I can’t even remember the year right this minute. They put him in a bed right there on the second floor. I think he stayed in there about three days and had either a massive stroke or a heart attack.

	H:	How old were you at the time? I’m sorry. E:	How old was I?

	H:	Yeah.



	E:	I was married, and I don’t know how old I was at the time. H:	You were living on your own at that point.

	E:	Oh, yeah.



	H:	Okay.



	G:	But Marion community was serving both black and white at that time? E:	Yes, mmhm.

	G:	Okay.



E:  It was in Monroe Regional Emergency Room that the doctor said that he had a light stroke, and they didn’t have any beds in Monroe at that time. So they went across the street. There wasn’t anything like a [inaudible 00:21:19]. That’s what they said. They didn’t have beds. So he went across the street. Other things in







my childhood? I don’t know. We would go back that far. My brother was two years older than I, and we graduated at the same time from our middle school. Now, it wasn’t because I was so smart but because I reckon I was so devilish.

	G:	Middle school or Howard High?



	E:	Middle school. I made third and fourth in one year and fifth and sixth in one year, and that’s how I caught up with my brother.

	H:	So where did you go to elementary school, then? E:	Howard. All my days was at Howard Middle School. H:	Okay.

	E:	Howard.



	G:	Academy.



	E:	Howard Academy. That’s where I went. Howard High School was on the same campus at the time, and my class of 1955 was the last class that graduated from Howard High School. By that time it wasn’t called Howard Academy High School but Howard High School.

	G:	Right.



	H:	So it was first through twelfth then? E:	Yes.

	H:	Is that correct at the time? E:	All at the same campus.







	H:	Okay.



	E:	And we had the election at that time of either splitting the high school year and going to the new school, or new Howard Academy campus over in tenth and Martin Luther King. I stayed there in my class. I voted first, and we stayed there.

	H:	Oh, so the whole class stayed there?



	E:	Whole class stayed there. We was the last class. That’s our distinction. We was the last class to graduate from Howard High School.

	H:	Oh, okay.



	G:	Which is where you were?



	E:	That’s where I was. My brother, too. I don’t remember who else marched in the Wall Memorial Auditorium, but that’s where had graduation exercise. Wall Memorial Auditorium. I can remember that. And I also can remember who became presidents. But it wasn’t quite in a right state of mind, ‘cause the colors were celebrating. That’s all I can remember. And I took a picture graduating there, and a handkerchief wrapped around my finger, for some reason. I can’t tell you where the picture is, but I can remember that.

	H:	You remember any of your teachers growing up?



	E:	I remember my first-grade teacher was Mrs. Oliver, my second-grade teacher was Mrs. Dunson, my third-grade teacher was Mrs. Racker, my fourth-grade teacher was Mrs. Shevesborough, and my fifth and sixth grade teacher was only Mae Jackson, because they were in the barracks by that time. I know she







taught fifth and then she taught sixth. Mrs. June Miller, by the time I got in high school, she was the choir—I was in the choir. I was singing. Not that I could sing. But I can remember a lot of my—[inaudible 00:24:58], Thomas George, Eugene Broxton, Thelma Parker. What was Davis’s first name? She ended up marrying him with Davis. What was her first name?

	G:	[inaudible 00:25:19] Davis? E:	Yes.

	G:	First wife?



	E:	No, I think it was his last wife. No, the second—one before the last. Yeah.



	H:	What teachers can you remember made an impact on you, on your life? What teachers would stand out, and why?

	E:	Mrs. Thelma Parker was one, ‘cause she was always pushing and promoting us to try to do more and try to do better. I can remember the time when she gave an exam, and I made two points higher than what was supposedly the highest score you could make. I made two points higher, and she wanted to know how could I do that, cause when she corrected things, everything was correct, and that’s what it totaled out. It was some mistake the teacher had made. She didn’t improve that, and I found it. She always told me that, “You gonna be somebody.” I didn’t know who that was at that time, but she told me I was gonna be somebody. Well, that’s not the way it turned out exactly, because when I got out of high school, I went to Florida A&M University. That’s a long story, because I saved my money. I shined shoes on the street, and I saved my money. I didn’t







even let my mom know, because my mom would always take my money and they’d give me what they wanted out of it. So I kinda stole from my mom, and I would give her approximately half, and I would put half in cans and jars underneath the house—on those shelves under the house. I would crawl under there. And I put that in there, because I did want to go to college. And so when I finished high school, I told my mom I wanted to go to college, and I had enough money to pay for one half semester—I mean, one half of the year. One semester. I had saved that much money. I don’t know how much it was at that time. And they agreed to pay for the other half. Well, sickness and other things took place and I couldn’t continue. So I went from there to New Jersey. I had an uncle. My daddy’s oldest brother was in New Jersey. So I went there, and I went to work in the Ford Factory in Meadowland, New Jersey. I was there for like a year. The reason I only stayed a year, because I had a job, and in them days it would’ve been a union job if I’d stayed. But my uncle had a son named Freddy. He had three boys, Ernest Jr., Curtis, and Freddy. Freddy was the middle one. And everybody said Freddy looked like me. Everywhere I go, trot for track, trot for track, Freddy would be right behind me, and all of Freddy’s family from his mother’s side, from up there, said that Freddy was just like me. Well, Freddy got pneumonia, and he died in the hospital up there. And at that point, I became very homesick, and I had money in the bank to go back to school. Well, that wasn’t to be at that time, ‘cause I wanted to buy me a car. And I bought a 1951 Mercury.

Green. Everybody used to call it—with me in the car—the green honey, even though there was no such thing as green honey. Called me a character. Anyway,







I did that and a car at that time made me some kinda big person, bigshot for having a car. And all of the girls. I’d choose, I wasn’t too—I liked one girl at the time. She and I went together. Her name’s Doretha Jenkins. And she and I went together until I met my wife. And I met my wife by being—what you call ‘em— mad over girls. Whatever you call ‘em. I cheated on her, yeah. I was a little bit tipsy, and then close to the drugstore on the corner, and she was in there, and I saw her, and I asked her to go to the midnight movies with me, ‘cause I knew I already had a date with the girlfriend. So I went in and she said yes, and I went in and asked her mom, and her mom said “Okay. Go straight on that way.” The movies was open. Well, at that time, you had to go upstairs. It was segregated movies. We had upstairs at—what you call the rich theater? The Ritz. And downstairs was the Whites. So we went upstairs.

	G:	So the Ritz was segregated, too?



	E:	The Ritz, yes. Yes, the Ritz was segregated. The Roxy Theater I think had burned down by that time. The Roxy Theater. That was the all-Black theater, right there near my church—our church. I went upstairs, and as I got to the top of the stairs who was at the top of the stairs but my present girlfriend’s best friend. And I didn’t enjoy that movie at all. I can tell you that right now. I didn’t enjoy that date. But at any rate, she did beat me before I could get out there and apologize, she was already there. Knocked on the door. She didn’t go up. She yelled. And I knocked on the door and she just went to crying and crying. And her mom asked her what was the matter and she was telling her mom. Telling me, “Get away from here. Get away from here.” And I never got a chance to explain to her that I







just was a little chippy and I did something wrong and I wanted to apologize, but she didn’t hear me at that time. She did later on. I did start to have a relationship with my wife—present wife—Margaret. I graduated when I was sixteen years, so you’re talking about I’m just right in the eighteenth year of my life.

H:  After returning from New Jersey? E:  Yes.

	H:	With your brand-new car? With your [19]51 Mercury.



	E:	Mercury. I dated her, and as it was, I didn’t put this in there, but as things happen, she became impregnated, and I married her a little before I was nineteen years old. And you might want to put this in the paper, we’ve almost been married sixty-two years now. So this August sixteenth coming. We married August 16, 1957 is when I got married.

	H:	Let me congratulate you ahead of time on your sixty-second anniversary. E:	Thank you, thank you.

	G:	What was Mrs. Barbara’s maiden name? You say she was— E:	Barbara Ann Clark.

	G:	Clark. And she’s from Shady Grove?



	E:	No. That was Jenkins, Jenkins, Jenkins, Jenkins. I forgot to think of her name.



I’m seeing a picture of her. I remember going to school.



	G:	That’s okay. Mrs. Barbara is from what area? Is she from Ocala?







	E:	She’s from Waldo. But it’s ironic enough that when I met Barbara, she was living in the house that I was born in, which was seven-thirty-two southwest Second Street. She was born right there, and that’s where I met her. And she was living in that. We lived with my mother for maybe a year, and I finally got a decent job. I had a job when I was working for Reinhardt’s owned by Howard Sands [00:34:32]. Right across from where the courthouse used to be. Right across on Broadway there. And one women’s clothing store. I did nothing but put the clothing and cleanup. I did that until I got a job at Quality Dairy up in Oaks, where I would herd cows in to be milked and milk ‘em. Then we would go in and process the milk.

	H:	Milk by machine or milk by hand? E:	By machine.

	H:	By machine.



	E:	No, I didn’t do no milking by hand. I did that for a while. And this ain’t part the story, but during them times, a young black female and my wife was really a looker at that time. She was a good-looking girl, pretty. Beautiful?

	G:	Beautiful.



	E:	You remember. Alright, she was beautiful. She went to work for Jerry’s Restaurant up on Pine Street where the pawn shop is now. Pine and Third Street. And it used to be Jerry’s Restaurant. She was in there. She was a salad maker. I can’t tell you who the name of the person was, but he was the same person that built the legal center there where the Marion County—







	H:	State Attorney’s Office, there on the corner?



	E:	They owned the State Attorney’s Office, and I don’t know what else is in there now, but he owned that and he owned that place up there. And he had the unmitigated goal to put his hands on my wife in a sense and attempt to date her. And she was scared almost to say no, but before when she told me about it, I went in, and she couldn’t work there no more. I’ll put it that way.

	H:	You were married at the time when this happened? E:	Yes.

	H:	You didn’t fight?



	E:	I didn’t fight him, but I told him I would. G:	I believe him.

	E:	And he literally fired her. So she came home. And it was at that point my life really took a turn for the better, because by that time I was working for a smithing company, and I had hurt my back in there. And I was laying there thinking about all this that happened to my wife and to me, and I wondered if I had really gotten hurt, as was on my mind, what would happen to my wife and to my children. By that time, I reckon we had three children.

	H:	Three children?



	E:	Three children. Daryl, Stanley, and [inaudible 00:37:50]. Do you know Stanley? G:	No.







	E:	Yeah. Any rate, I wondered what would happen to them if something happened to me, and so just laying down talking with my wife, I asked her if she had the opportunity to become what she wanted to be in life, what would she want to be. And she told me she wanted to be a nurse. Well, she went from here. While I’m recuperating, she drove from here to Gainesville, Santa Fe, and she became a nurse.

	H:	She commuted back and forth?



	E:	Yes. An LP, not a registered nurse. She commuted back and forth. Met some other people that was going back and forth. About three people. Evelyn Walker and Clarita [inaudible 00:38:44]. They were going and they were driving together in my car, and she went all the way through. Passed the test. Went to work in [inaudible 00:39:00] Hospital, where she worked almost thirty-eight years. Up there delivering babies. That’s what she liked. So that’s what she did. Well, when she finished school, I decided I wasn’t going to come back out there, ‘cause it was too dangerous. Where I was working it was. You couldn’t just take any job you wanted to, because it was unionized.

	H:	This was at Swift’s? E:	This was at Swifts.

	H:	What did they do at the time? E:	Butchering cows.

	H:	That’s what I thought.







	E:	Yeah, butchering cows. And I had the third highest paying job at the plant where I was—whatchacallit—heading cows. Skinning the heads. Bleeding ‘em and skinning the heads. That was my job. But it was on chains and trolleys. They hanged up by one leg and it rolls around. So I had to feed that chain, and I fed everybody on that killing floor from that, ‘cause you could do that. It was the third highest paying job. Any rate, I did that, but I was afraid to go back, because that chain broke. The cow fell off that chain. It hit me, knocked me out of it. What they call it? Picked it out of the blood pit, and I landed on my back, and that’s how I hurt myself. That’s why I’m home with my recuperating from the injury. So I decided then that I would go back to finish school. I already had one year. So I went back to Saint Lawrence [00:40:40] Community College, not really knowing what I was going to be. And right along that time, I heard this rumbling. I got to tell you some more. I missed something.

	G:	Was it integrated then? [inaudible 00:40:57], was it integrated then? E:	Yeah, yeah. Any rate, I got to get in that, right in that level, when I left. G:	Swift?

	E:	Swift. I went there. They came up with a caddy. That’s how I used to make my money: caddying at Ocala Municipal Golf Course. And they came up with Crumpton, another golf course, to keep African Americans from playing over there at Ocala Municipal Golf Course. That’s the way it was. And I knew the caddy master real good out there, and I also knew the pro. Lou Bateman was the pro. They put me over there as pro manager. I wasn’t making a whole lot of







money. Making like thirty-seven dollars and fifty cents a week, but I was supposed to make money off of selling condiments and golf balls and stuff like that. But when I found, I wasn’t making no money, I used to go out. I learned to play golf good enough that I could go out and make some bets. And I could feed my family, pay my rent.

	H:	By playing golf?



	E:	I was good, but the whole system was against African Americans at that time as far as getting hired.

	H:	So let me make sure I understand. The golf course at that point, you were a caddy at the one golf course that was segregated—

	E:	Yes.

	H:	—for golfers and employers—I meant, and employees—or just for the golfers? E:	Golfers. They didn’t allow African Americans to play on the Ocala Municipal Golf

Course at all.



	H:	Could you be a caddy there? That’s what I’m trying— E:	Oh, yeah.

	H:	That’s what I meant. So you were a caddy at a white golf course? E:	Yeah, yeah.

	H:	That was my question. Okay.







	E:	Yeah, I learned to play golf out there by slipping off from the crowd, making sure I [inaudible 00:43:06] down there, hitting golf balls. That’s how I learned.

	H:	Okay.



	G:	And that’s still open, right? E:	Ocala Municipal is still open.

	G:	So it was [inaudible 00:43:16]. E:	Yes, [inaudible 00:43:16].

	H:	Okay.



	E:	And they opened Crumpton Memorial Golf Course. That was the Black golf course, or African American golf course, to start with. And I was out there. It was out there that somebody—and I don’t know who to this day—left a Bible, and I began to read the Bible, cause during the week there wasn’t nothing to do hardly, cause there wasn’t that much professionalism in Ocala. A couple of doctors, but didn’t neither one of ‘em play golf that I know. Dr. Lamb and Dr. Right and Dr.

Jones, none of those. Those were the three Black doctors here. They didn’t play golf at all. But a Dr. Banx from Gainesville used to come over and play. A few from Gainesville would come over to play, because they didn’t have a golf course. They could play at the municipal golf course over there only on Mondays. They could play over there, but they could come over, so they did come over here. And that was good money, ‘cause they would bet, and I couldn’t afford to lose, so I went out there, and I played as hard as I could play. Usually won. At







any rate, they left—the Bible was left at the golf course, and I began to read it, and I would read it until the Bible seemed like it would talk to me or talk about me. I’d put it down, and I’d go out, and I’d practice golf as hard as I could.

Practice, practice, practice. And I did that until I couldn’t take it no more. So I left the golf course. Went to work for Certified Grocers. Got into started going to Covenant Baptist Church. I still needed money to build me a house or buy a house or something. So while I’m working to Certified Grocers, I’m also working at the Golden Hills in Ocala at night, washing dishes and mopping floors, making money.

	H:	That was a school at that point, or what was that? E:	Golden Hills? Yeah.

	H:	Not Golden Hills Academy? Something else? What was it. E:	Golden Hills Country Club.

	H:	Oh, the country club. I’m sorry. E:	Yes, yeah.

	H:	Right.



	E:	And I worked out there at night, worked at Certified Grocers in the daytime. And one night I was coming home and sitting there [00:45:58], and something spoke to me and said to me about getting into ministry. And I talked to my pastor about it. And he told me, “Go home and pray about it, and see what the Lord say, and come back and let me know.” Well, funniest thing happened. I was parked over







there on the east side of the church. Living at that time on Third Street. So all I had to do was go out and make a right to go down there. I went out of the church and for some reason, when I made that turn on Fort King, coming out of the Baptist church—you know what I’m talking about?

	G:	Mmhm.



	E:	When I got to the Holiness Church down there, something said, “Turn right again.” And I turned right. To me, it sounded like something said, “Turn right.” And I came back to Broadway. Something said, “Turn right again.” So I turned right again, and then I came back down Broadway to [inaudible 00:47:01] Baptist Church. Something seemed to say, “Turn right again.” And then I got down there to where I was parked, something said, “Turn right again.” Then, it seemed like something was saying to me, “Go up and say to them that you really was called to preach.” So I went upstairs and I told Reverend Pinkston—[inaudible 00:47:21] Pinkston—who was the pastor there, that I believed God was calling me to preach. And so, he took it from there to the church, and they decided to let me do my trial sermon—is what they called it in the Baptist Church. Trial sermons. They didn’t make you go to school or nothing like that. All this is happening while I’m going through Central Florida Community College.

	H:	About how old were you at that time?



	E:	Now, I pastored for fifty years. And I was right in my late twenties or— H:	Okay, that’s what I was thinking.







	E:	Yeah. They set up my trial sermon. At that time, [inaudible 00:48:18]. I couldn’t go in the pulpit. I had to preach from down on the floor. And I said, “I’m gonna beat this thing. I’m gonna write my sermon and read it off.” That was in February. They had a side door there. And as I stood up to preach, somebody came in to hear me preaching my trial sermon. When they did, it blew my notes all everywhere. And people helping picking up, they didn’t get back together. And I preached, and I can remember my sermon title was, “The Score That Counts.”

	H:	What?



	E:	The Score That Counts.



	H:	The Score That Counts. Okay.



	E:	Yes. From the Book of Genesis, where it says, “And Terah died in Heran.” I can’t remember all of it, but I used to could remember. “Terah died in Heran.” That was the father of Abraham, and Abraham was on his way to the land that God was going to show him. He told him that, “Get up from your father’s house. Get up from your father’s house. We’re going to a land that I will show you.” And Abraham disobeyed God and took his father with him. And his father died in Heran. That’s what I took my text from. I don’t remember how I got to that text now. I don’t know how, but that was because I played baseball, and I used the analogy of baseball to make up that sermon. And knowing that you start at home plate, and all of the scores you had start at home plate. You had to go first base, second base, and third base. Well, third base is just ninety feet from home plate, but if you didn’t make it home, it meant you died ninety feet from home. So that







was kinda make up of my sermon. And he died in Heran. He didn’t make the score that counts. That’s how that came up.

	G:	Are you familiar with any professional baseball teams that played here? ‘Cause I know we had [inaudible 00:50:45] that played them and [inaudible 00:50:46].

	E:	I didn’t play with them. We had our own team. It was just made up of people who wanted to go out and play. We played Silver Springs, and we played Belleview, Dunnelion. All of ‘em had little communities, and we’d get a chance to go around and play. Basketball, too. We didn’t have no name. We just made up a team. I’m trying to think of where I went from that particular thing. I don’t know if I was preaching.

	H:	So this was a trial sermon? E:	Trial sermon.

	H:	And then what happened after that?



	E:	They licensed me. I became Brother, not Reverend.

	H:	Even though your papers and sermon were all—you somehow put it together— E:	I stood up and preached or whatever I did. They voted on it right then and there.



The church votes on it right then and there. They voted on it to license me as a preacher. And so I was practicing then, Covenant Baptist Church, and going to Bible study and things like that. Preaching around in Ocala. I preached to Jerusalem Baptist Church, to Zion Baptist Church. Preached to Hope Baptist. I preached all around. This is almost, I could hardly go to church, I was preaching.







And then down in East Lake Weir Baptist Church, on the lake down there, East Lake Baptist Church, there preaching until, I believe he was called to New Zion Baptist Church, and they didn’t have a preacher. So they asked me to come down there to preach. And I was going down there to preach every second and fourth Sunday. It was only two Sundays out of the month. And I was going down there preaching every second and the fourth Sunday. This is all happening between a year. Then, Mount Moriah Baptist Church became vacant, but they wasn’t looking at me. They just wanted me to come in and preach on the third Sunday. That’s the only Sunday I could go there and preach, because I wasn’t ordained, so I couldn’t do their communion. I go there and preach down there.

Then they wanted me to preach a little bit more. So I kinda dropped one Sunday, the fourth Sunday. I was young at that time, and they had a good youth group down there. They wanted me to preach on the fourth Sunday, so I preached on the fourth Sunday. The person that they wanted to call was from Minnesota, and I reckon he wanted too much at the time, and they couldn’t afford to pay him. So the church divided. One half wanted to call a preacher by the name of Reverend Abraham Howell, and the other side wanted to call me. My pastor at that time and Reverend Howell was really close. They lived in Silver Springs together.

They fished together. Whatever else they did together. But he came to me, and he told me from his experience and information, he had gotten that Reverend Howell would get Mount Moriah. This is close to December 1968. Reverend Howell would get the church, and he wanted me to withdraw my name from







consideration. ‘Cause Baptist Churches don’t need—they do their own thing, not have no association or anything else. Just any ministers. So I did.

	H:	You withdrew your name?



	E:	I withdrew my name. And they told me right then and there—it was Deacon Charles Parker, who was Elma Parker’s—one of these ladies’ husband—who told me I was gonna be somebody. Told me, he said, “I tell you you could leave your name in there and you would win.” And I said, “Well, I couldn’t go against the Reverend Banx. I haven’t done anything to him.” [00:55:28] And I told him to withdraw it. And he told me this. I haven’t forgotten. He said, “The same people who would’ve voted you in, will be there to vote Reverend Howell out.” And that’s exactly what happened. Two weeks later, they held a meeting, and they called me as pastor. I was there for fifty years.

	H:	And you honored the request to withdraw your name, and you ended up being the preacher there?

	E:	Yeah. Yes. Mount Moriah, at that time, was a standout church, you might say. It was the hill is [00:56:14] where the State of Florida Baptist Association was formed. The association is still in existence now, was formed out of Mount Moriah. It was the oldest Baptist Church. People in Fairfield out there in their chapel claim they’re older, but I don’t know. At least I know they was the oldest. Hm?

	G:	1866.







	E:	That’s what they said. They say it. I didn’t know it at the time, but Mount Moriah.



Mount Moriah? I think Mount Moriah might have been 1865.



	G:	I’m working on that though.



	E:	Okay, work on that. It’s not 1865, it’s 1867. It might be. Yeah, whatever. But I became pastor, and they started me as pastor second Sunday in December, but in 1968. And I stayed there until December nineteen—2018. December.

	H:	Fifty years in the same church. E:	Right.

	H:	So a lot of people come, and a lot of people go in those years, didn’t you?



	E:	That’s one of the hardest things, because I remember all of these people that were so good and gracious to me, I had to stand there and say something about them. And that was really hard. That was hard. And I lived here all of my life except for that one year. That was where I lived and I knew ‘em all. It’s never been a joyride up and down.

	H:	Baptized a few babies along the way?



	E:	Oh, I baptized a lot of babies. I performed a lot of ceremonies. I can’t really tell you. They have the records down there. I don’t have ‘em, but they have the records. That was it. And so here I am today.

	H:	I wanna go back. Can we go back a little bit?



	E:	Yeah. Let me tell you this one thing. I don’t know—even now it’s not clear to me—whether I believe God called me to preach, but I believe He called me to







preach for a reason, because He knew that one day, I would be in the situation that I am presently in. That’s what I believe. And so I’m well-prepared strength- wise, faith-wise, to be in the position that I’m in now with my wife as a stroke victim. I believe that. So I’m thankful that I went through, I stayed there. Not that I had to stay there, because I was called to maybe twenty to thirty different churches in around the United States and Florida. I could’ve gone, but I never had the inclination to leave.

	H:	You got called from these other churches to come— E:	Yes.

	H:	—and be their pastor?



	E:	Minnesota; Waco, Texas; Brayton [00:59:35]; Sarasota. I mean, all around.



Jacksonville. I did, but I never even answered a letter except to say that I thank you for your interest, but I’m satisfied where I am, and God didn’t tell me to leave. I always had a feeling that [inaudible 00:59:57], but I always had a feeling that if the sheep know their shepherd, then that’s where you belong, with your sheep.

Just to change and go to another church, because it was bigger or offered you more money or something like that, that was not the type of shepherd that I could find in the Bible. They would leave their sheep and go in—

	G:	To more dollars.



	E:	Yeah. Took somebody else’s sheep. They didn’t have churches. A shepherd was a shepherd. That analogy was pretty—where they never have a close relationship. The good book tell you that a shepherd knew his sheep by name. I







won’t tell you that I had—this will be interesting for you—when I took the pastorship at Mount Moriah, I didn’t sign a contract or nothing. All there was was a handshake, and it was as long as the church could agree. And fifty years later, there’s never been—they didn’t throw me out or exchange me. I can’t say I was the best pastor. Always somebody better, but I did what I could. I was successful at that.

	H:	And how old were you when you left in 2018? You were beyond a normal retirement age is what I’m thinking.

	E:	Yes. I could still do the job today, but like I said, I was called to church. Best part, I feel like my ministry right now is, like I say, with my wife. And I don’t regret.

	H:	If I could, I’d like to go back a little bit, back to your childhood. You mentioned a couple of things that you did outside. You shined shoes for example. How old were you when you started shining shoes?

	E:	I don’t know, but I shined shoes, I know, from the time I was about ten or eleven, to the time that I—next five or six years—I graduated from school.

	H:	And how did you get started doing that? E:	Shining shoes?

	H:	Mmhm.



	E:	Looking at other fellas that were shining shoes up there. They had on the corner a place where they would shine. I went up and shined shoes on the corner of Magnolia and Broadway.







	H:	So you’ve got a shoe shine kit of some sort?



	E:	I made me a shoe shine box. I made it. It wasn’t much. Every box was kind of— kneel down like that. I had my pillow I kneeled on, and I would shine shoes.

	H:	Would you take a chair, then, with you for the— E:	No, they’d stand up.

	H:	Oh, they would stand up?



	E:	Stand up, put their one shoe on there. I’d shine it. Then they’d put their other— H:	Oh, okay.

	E:	—shoe on there. I’d shine it. Sometimes, I had became [inaudible 01:03:14] people [inaudible 01:03:16] and I’d use the [inaudible 01:03:17] from that. They would bring shoes by—extra shoes by—and I would shine ‘em, and they’d come back to pick ‘em up.

	H:	And how did you charge, and how did you get paid? Was that tips only, or did you have a fee?

	E:	No, no. I used to—I don’t know whether it was fifteen cents or maybe it went up to a quarter. But I had a lot of customers, and most of ‘em was white.

	H:	And repeat customers, I’m sure.



	E:	Yes, they would repeat. I’d be there the same time every morning. Like I said, I’d go home and give my mom two or three dollars, and I might’ve made fifteen, twenty.







	H:	And you say you were ten at the time, so I’m thinking, was this after school or in the summer, or on the weekends? When was this?

	E:	No, mostly on Friday evenings and Saturdays. My mom made me go to church. I went to Hope Mill Baptist Church. They made us go to church. She used to go to church and then sit there between us with a switch in her hand and tell my brother not to move and me not to move. She wouldn’t let us sit side by side. She had that switch. She’d be praising the Lord. We didn’t do nothing. I never got a beating in church, I’ll put it that way.

	H:	She never found out about that half of the money you were hiding under the house, as well.

	E:	No. Occasionally, if they needed something, I would somehow tell them I’d go up and shine shoes or something and get ‘em the money. And also, while I was shining shoes—you remember [inaudible 01:05:03]? Well that’s where Dr.

Hampton had his first dental office. Dr. [inaudible 01:05:07] Hampton. There they had an office upstairs there.

	G:	The building is still there, is what—what’s his name?



	E:	Yeah, they done tore it down now. It’s not a two-story building anymore. But Mrs. Pearl used to have her kitchen up there, up on one side. They used to have kind of a dance hall there out in front. And on the west side of the building, they had Dr. Hampton’s office. What I used to do is on his side, I used to go in and sweep and mop back there, and I made extra money. So that’s what I would tell my mom mostly. I could make some extra money there if they needed something.







	H:	So you did chores around the house, you did shoe shining to make some money.



	Sounds like you were also involved in sports. You mentioned baseball and— E:	Yeah.

	H:	—basketball.



	E:	Yeah. I never did play any varsity sports in high school. No basketball, no football, but I did play baseball. I wanted to play it, but I was too little. I was like two years ahead of myself in school, and so I wasn’t developed to the point that I could do all that. But I learned how to play football—catch some football—and I learned how to play basketball. You remember Wilber Prince?

	G:	Oh, yes, yes.



	E:	Used to be a barber. When he came here from Tampa—he came from Florida A and M University—he was a outstanding basketball player. I used to shine shoes in the barber shop where he—at that time, making extra money on the weekends. We used to be talking about basketball. So he put together a semi- pro team. We would go around [inaudible 01:07:17], Crystal River, Palatka, places like that, and play basketball. I don’t remember making no money doing it. It was just something that we did.

	H:	And when would those games be held? E:	Mostly on the weekends.

	H:	On the weekends.







	E:	Mostly on the weekends. It might’ve even been on a Sunday. When I got big enough to get out of the church, I got out of the church. That’s why I wasn’t in Hope Mill when I started the preaching. I went to Covenant. Covenant—you know where Davis Grocery was? There was a house next to there where the Franklins ended up living. Kate [01:08:02] Franklin, Corey Franklin. They stayed in the house next to the house that Howard Beverley had. Mama was kin to Cole. Had a wife named Martha. The Howards’ house was there. My mom was right straight in front of ‘em at seven-eleven. I would be up in the house right across the street there for a while. I’m trying to think of what I was trying to say about that. And a couple was right down the street from there.

	H:	I’m assuming the baseball teams, this was an African American or Black league.



Is that—



	E:	All Black.



	H:	All Black. What do you remember, or what stands out in your mind, in terms of segregation, discrimination, prejudice, the opportunity, those kind of things?

	E:	I missed a big segment there, because at the time that I went back to Central Florida Community College, James Cunningham was president of the NAACP. And when James Cunningham died, I know myself and Dr. Lester Young ran for—

	G:	City council?



	E:	That was before I ran for the city council. I was still president. We ran for the office of president to succeed—







	H:	Of the NAACP for the chapter here?



	E:	Yes. And I was president. I was going to Central Florida Community College to university. And I stayed in there for about seven or almost eight years. The thing, out of all I’ve done, the other part of it was just us coming up to that point, because we used to march, sit in, up at MacRory’s and Biddings [01:10:18] Drugstore.

	H:	Can you tell me a little bit about that? I’ve heard about that but it would be nice to get a feel for what that was like.

	E:	Well, they wouldn’t serve us. The first thing about it, they wouldn’t serve us. We’d go in there and sit down, and we stand around, and more blacks went into that and sit down, and less white folks would come to the counter to be served. So we was able to actually monopolize the counters. We’d be sitting there until the police would come in and remove us. And I was arrested twice. I never went to court for any of it, but I was arrested and taken somewhere down to the county jail, which was right where the courthouse is now at that time. They’d put us in a room, keep us for a little while where we couldn’t go back out. The store would be closed, and they’d let us out. That was two times I was arrested. That’s when they let us out. I was arrested twice for that. I got a security’s license—cell security’s. They researched my background by Lincoln Financial Services. They went all the way back. I mean, they went back. And they upon the fact that I was arrested. I almost didn’t get a security’s license because of that. But wasn’t nobody here to tell them. I didn’t have have no court records. I didn’t go to court. I was prosecuted but never been in jail or anything. So they gave me my license. I







didn’t have to fight for ‘em. I wrote that explanation, and they pretty much accepted it after the investigation. So I was able to get my security’s license.

	H:	So at some point, before you were protesting—what was it called? McRory’s?



	E:	McRory’s. They had a dining area there, and been this restaurant down close to Harry’s Restaurant. Just short of that used to be Free Mac’s. Then it was Biddings Drugstore. Free Mac’s was a clothing store. Across the street was Barnie [01:13:04] Bank?

	G:	I think it was Barnie.



	E:	Barnie Bank. Biddings had two drugstores. One he had on the colored side of town and one on the white side of town. We’d spend our money on this side, we couldn’t go and sit at his counter on the other side. He didn’t have a counter on the west side. That was in the block between First Avenue and Magnolia. He had another drugstore. He had two drugstores.

	H:	And I guess what I’m looking for is some folks that I’ve talked to have told me, “That’s just the way it was,” and there wasn’t anything they could do about it. It sounds like you and the folks that you were—

	E:	My friend Pinkston came along. I know you’ve heard of him. H:	I’ve his name, yes.

	E:	He came out of Virginia Union. He became pastor at Mount Moriah Baptist Church. In fact, I succeeded him. He lived protest, and people began to listen to him. Dorset would come in here.







	G:	Dorset?



	E:	Dorset.



	G:	Dorset Miller?



	E:	He wasn’t quite old enough yet. He hadn’t gotten there yet. Mostly Frankson and a few ministers.

	H:	And made it clear that you didn’t have to accept it— E:	We didn’t accept it.

	H:	—that there were things that you could do.



	E:	Exactly. It wasn’t long in coming that—for some reason they think it just went away like that. They passed laws against segregation, but people in the South that lived [01:15:00] at that time. Lotta them went to jail. They didn’t arrest everybody. They couldn’t arrest everybody, because there was so many that was marching and demonstrating and protesting or whatever that they couldn’t arrest everybody.

	H:	Were those protests all Black, or were there white folks who volunteered as well?



	E:	I do not remember any white folk demonstrating with us or protesting with us. I never remember one. I’m sure that there was some people that might’ve sympathized with us, but Ocala wasn’t big enough for them to stand out there and not, I would say, where it would harm them, be harmful to ‘em. I’m talking about people who had means and things like that. They were depending on the community to help them. I don’t remember any black folk, hardly, I don’t







remember any that I can say were patronized Reinhardt’s. They were all white. His brother-in-law had a clothing store over there on Magnolia near Wood. I don’t know if you remember that. You old enough to remember that?

	G:	Unh-uh.



	E:	Okay, well that was on Magnolia and Six String [01:16:20] Boulevard. Next to that was Truman’s.

	G:	Truman’s.



	E:	Yeah.



	G:	What about Molover’s?



	E:	Molover’s on opposite side of the street—on the opposite side of Six String



Boulevard.



	H:	So what I’m hearing, at least in Ocala, that the leaders of these groups were from the churches, which—

	E:	We’re from churches.



	H:	—probably gave you the strength and conviction that not only do we think it’s right, but the church is telling that it’s right. And derive strength from that, I would think.

	E:	I think many of our people derived strength from it. There was other demonstrations going on as far as Tallahassee. I remember each one that I was involved in in Tallahassee, but I was just sitting in the crowd. Nothing momentous happened to me in that situation. But they all had to go down there, build Lincoln







High School in Tallahassee. That’s where the whole town was. They was up there. It was starting up there. So movements was going on all around. Ocala kinda came into the midst of it, not in the middle of it. It was going on in other places. Branxton [01:17:47] was very outspoken. His daddy was a preacher, too. Reverend Kingston came out of the same church I came out of. Reverend Kingston was first at Saint Mary’s. Then he came to Ocala.

	G:	Right.



	E:	His daddy was a pastor here. He was right there. He was supporting his son.



Most of the ministers that I knew of—Reverend McCravy—all of them was supporting. I can’t remember too much out the Methodists. There was some that was here.

	H:	In most of the issues that the NAACP was involved in back when you were president, and when Reverend Pinkston was president, some of it was integrating stores, some of it was integrating schools. What other kinds of issues—

	E:	Well, I know that I had a little protest against Vanguard High School. Probably, look it up, you’ll find that I was the first one here—when I was president of NAACP—to take the Marion County School Board. I don’t know if it’s got a record of it. We didn’t win. We took Marion County School Board to court, because they wouldn’t allow African Americans to ride the busses.

	H:	So the schools were integrated, but the busses were not?







	E:	The busses were not. As far as I can remember. But we stood there and protested, and the kids didn’t go to school and class. So we ended up—I’m trying to figure out what this is called that we got. It was from Daytona. I’m sorry. I’m eighty-one years old. It’s somewhere. I know he was from Daytona, and he came and he was supposed to be fighting the case, and [inaudible 01:20:15] right across the street from the Marion County Courthouse. I remember that.

	G:	I can’t think of his name either.



	E:	You won’t help me? He came, but we lost, for not enough—I don’t know what was the reason we lost. I don’t know.

	H:	There was resistance in the power structure. What about resistance in the community to change—in the white community? I know, obviously, you’re fighting school boards or you’re fighting major businesses. What about just within the community itself? The citizens?

	E:	People are creatures of habit, mostly. They had [inaudible 01:21:05], which made all of his money in the grocery store from Black folk. You had Braswell Clothing made most of their money from Black folk. You had Homme Furniture Company, right downtown there, made most of their money from Black folk. Maybe all of it. Folks [01:21:32] Drugstore made most of their—but none of them came out and stood with us. But that didn’t seem to alienate people, because for some reason, people developed some kind of relationship with those people. Sometimes it was credit and things like that, but caused them to stick with people who was faithful or lean toward them in certain things. I can remember E. W. Jones Groceries.







Then along came Mr. Adam and put his grocery store down there. You don’t know about it. Do you know about it?

	G:	Near [inaudible 01:22:18]?



	E:	No, it was right there on the corner, straight down from my church there, on the corner of Six String Boulevard.

	G:	Okay.



	E:	Yeah. Adam, a Black man, put a grocery store there. He succeeded, because people were turning away from the other businesses at some point there that had been going towards giving it to their own. But for the most part, they didn’t—I’m saying that I don’t know if they liked us, but we didn’t hate them. I don’t remember hating anybody. I don’t remember actually disliking anybody to the point that I would not or I change all my habits. And then, it wasn’t too long, there was the Publix and other places coming into Ocala. Winn-Dixie’s, places like that. Pine Street’s Shopping Center.

	G:	ANP.



	E:	ANP, yeah, they was coming into Ocala. So it was a totally different thing than these family-owned grocery store businesses and clothing businesses and things that was here. They went out of business.

	H:	All of the bigger companies, the bigger stores, came in and— E:	Yes, same thing is happening now.







	H:	How ‘bout counter protests or groups or folks that I read or heard about that hunted in the fishing club? In other words, while you were protesting and demonstrating, there was some fear and some concern of potential violence? Yeah?

	E:	Somebody travelling called the Pinksters [01:24:06] out of Silver Springs. So the hunting and fishing club was formed where we’d go out and stand guard around their homes. They lived in Silver Springs. During the night, I don’t ever recall anything happening. Ain’t nobody came and tried to engage them at all that I can remember. Now, I might not have been there but I remember people was very cautious that something like that might happen to them.

	H:	And there was violence in the schools, was there not during those times? Or at least threats of violence is what I heard.

E:  I wasn’t in the school system when they integrated the school system. I wasn’t into that. My children were smaller. I don’t remember. I can’t remember right at this point.

H:  So when your kids started school, did they start in integrated schools then? E:  Yes.

H:   They did?



E:   Yes, yes. In the [19]60s, that’s when the school was. My oldest son is what?



About sixty-two. He was born in [19]58, 1958? Around that maybe. Might have missed a few years, and birthdays, too. Excuse me.







	H:	What about the religious community? Has there been much integration either on this side of town or the other side of town?

	E:	There’s been some. Reason is our church, we have several white families in there. I would say several or three that came and joined. But I don’t know too many Black folk that was original to here that left the Black church and went to what we call the white church. It did happen over time, but it happened over time, because a lot of blacks were moving into the area, and the churches was convenient there. Most of ‘em was kind of open to integration. I don’t remember anybody having any problems with Black folk attending what they call all-white churches.

	H:	But as far as you remember, no participation from white churches in the civil rights movement here in Ocala?

	E:	No, I don’t remember any. None during my time. H:	That’s what I mean. That’s exactly what I mean.

	E:	No, none during my time. No, none came over. In Silver Springs, that was predominantly black, and almost all those people were in one sense related or married into the family when they came, and they was part of the movement. And then there was ones in Ocala who had born the burden of segregation without knowing it was segregation. All of a sudden it just became ignorance to think that my money was just as your money and it couldn't be spent except down here. I remember it dawned on me. We used to have an insurance man. He was a nice man, and he was Mr. Smith with Gulf Life Insurance. He’d come in our house, sit







down, we’d eat, everything. And it dawned on me one day that he was coming over here getting my money for insurance and moving—going back across to the other side of town. It never, ever, dawned on me that ask him, “You making your living over here. Why don’t you do something for us?” It never dawned on me that. He was just a nice man. He was nice, as far as I could see. I don’t know if I saw color, but I don’t know if I saw differences to the point of bigotry or bias or prejudice. I don’t know if I saw that. But I did when I became president of the NAACP.

H:  So because you were shining shoes, there was no problem with you walking into Ocala. Do you remember feeling any discomfort or friends feeling any discomfort walking in parts of Ocala that were where they did not feel welcome?

	E:	I think it was Keystone Jewelry at the time. Remember that? That’s where I had my little set up. I would shine. I’m trying to think of what the guy’s name that was in there, but I shined his shoes. He never seemed to mind me outside his building. Like I said, I didn’t have no shoeshine stand. I just had that one little box and a pillow to kneel on and shine shoes. It never seemed to bother him, and it never seemed to bother anybody that I was there shining shoes. I ain’t never seen no white boy with a shoeshine box, but I did.

	H:	But you had a purpose for being there. Could blacks at the time feel comfortable walking anywhere they wanted to in Ocala if they didn’t have a specific purpose like that?







	E:	Well, I can’t remember going into what we called white town at night or anything like that. I didn’t have no reason to go over there, and so I didn’t go over there. Not even when I was standing out there protesting or anything. We didn’t go over there. But when I ran for office, I went over there. White community. Knocked on their doors and asked for their votes and things like that. I don’t remember anybody telling me to get off their property or anything like that.

	H:	And how ‘bout vice versa— E:	That’s in 1986, though.

	H:	—you mentioned your dad selling moonshine. Were there folks going back and forth?

	E:	My granddaddy.



	H:	Or your granddad, I guess it was.



	E:	I don’t know that he sold anything. He made his own.



	H:	Okay, alright. So just like there weren’t many blacks spending time in white town, there weren’t many whites spending much time in black town.

	E:	Just going over there like insurance agents. H:	Right, right. Okay. Folks selling things.

	E:	That’s all.



	H:	Going back to the golf course. You found the Bible— E:	Yeah.







	H:	—and started reading the Bible, and then started attending church. What did your mom feel about all of that? What was her reaction to your interest in the church and finding a place for yourself?

	E:	Well, my mom, she was happy. My dad, he wasn’t overzealous about it. H:	He was not?

	E:	No, my daddy was not—he became more of a Christian as I grew in the ministry. H:	Oh, okay.

	E:	Yeah, he became more of a Christian. And they ended up becoming members of the church that I was pastor. I didn’t bury my mom. In fact, the Reverend George Lee. My daddy never did—I take that back. My daddy never did. He’d come to our church, but he never did join our church. When he passed, they buried him out of Hope Mill. He was still a member over there. My mom did become a member of our church. They buried her out on Mount Moriah. I didn’t preach at either one of ‘em. At that time, I was a pretty good guy. My personality or character, it changed a certain degree that they kinda believed in it and encouraged it. I don’t remember ever getting any negatives from my parents or my brother. My brother actually, he became a deacon at Mount Moriah. He was a deacon.

	H:	So if I were to ask you what lesson did you learn from your mother and father, can you think of a particular lesson that you attribute your character to that you learned from your mom or your dad?







	E:	Yeah, basically—even though this is going to sound so simple—they always told my brother and I to tend to our business, whatever it was and do it well. Tend to it well. That’s what they always told me. I don’t remember much. My mom and dad never told us, “Don’t turn your back on yourself.” I don’t know what that really meant, but I always remember that’s what she would tell us. “Don’t turn your back on yourself.” In other words, I reckon, don’t turn your back on being who you are. I think that’s the kind of thing they wanted us—Main thing they wanted us to do was tend to our things and tend to it really well.

	H:	And it sounds like that’s the life they led themselves?



	E:	Yes, it was. When all of this integration—instead of segregation—was going on, my daddy was almost tell us that we didn’t have no business over there doing that or this, because they’re so indoctrinated in the segregated situation that I think they was afraid. I think that’s what it was. It was fear over everything.

	H:	Didn’t want you rocking the boat.



	E:	Didn’t want me rocking the boat, yeah. But that left. I can’t remember when it left or how it left, but it left pretty easy, pretty quick.

	H:	How did they feel about you being president of NAACP?



	E:	They felt like I just needed to tend to my business. I don’t remember them ever saying anything. I wasn’t in their house. At that time, I was responsible for my own self. I went to Central Florida Community College. It was integrated, and that’s where I became. So I was kind of in a integrated situation when that happened.







	H:	How long did your mom live with you, and how old were your boys when she moved in with you?

	E:	My mom moved in in her latter days.



	H:	So the boys were already grown at that point then? E:	No, no, no, no, no. My mom kept my boys.

	H:	That was my question.



	E:	Yeah, she kept ‘em. She helped us raise ‘em. I don’t know. She helped them learn how to cook. This last one came in at night. He couldn’t boil water. He came along. My mom was trying to figure out—

	G:	He the biggest, but he the baby.



	E:	I don’t know if—he didn’t really get to know my mom. Just the first three. Then I had one in between them that died. Second boy passed. My mom helped. Her mom helped, too. Her mom ended up living with us in her last days.

	H:	Okay.



	E:	Her dad did, too, for a little while. Not long, ‘cause he didn’t last too long.



	H:	Probably like a lot of people, you don’t want to toot your horn. It would be nice if maybe you could tell a story about some of the folks in your church whose life you made a big impact on. Can you think of a few special cases—I know there’s lot’s of ‘em but—a few special cases where you really made a difference?







	E:	It just happened recently, but probably the person in their life that I made the biggest impact on, that I’m proud of—Well, there’s several preachers that came out of it: Victor Boynton, who was pastoring; Ricky Howard, who was pastoring. He came—Ricky Howard—between Saint John and Mount Moriah. I don’t know what he was using. But my son, who’s an ordained minister now. I didn’t even know that I was having that much of an impact on him. He is. He became minister. I think he kind of wanted to pastor the church after I left, but they haven’t called a pastor yet. I think he wanted to pastor there, but I don’t think so. I think they got enough of Edwards. He’s very independent and outspoken. He’s a good speaker. Who else in that church? I hear a lot of things. I don’t really—they say, “You don’t remember, but you did so-and-so and so-and-so in my life.” I can’t remember right now those people’s names. I might think of something. I’ll write it down.

	H:	I guess I’m thinking of situations like yours. It sounds like when you found the Bible, that was a major event in your life, when you found that Bible at the golf course. And I guess, what I would imagine to be the case is that there were folks that were in your church who at some point or another made a change of direction in their lives just like you made a change of direction in yours. Those are the kind of things that I was wondering about that not necessarily people who grew up in the church and continued on that path, but somebody who changed directions, perhaps because of your leadership.

	E:	In the Baptist Church, it’s a family-oriented situation. And then people will come into the church. We—what you call—open the doors of the church, and anybody







in there wanna join, they join. There are few people who joined—well, honestly, about fifty percent of the people who joined, became members of our church, were people who came here from out of town. Some of them came here, because maybe they heard of Mount Moriah or came down and possibly heard of me and joined the church, but the rest of ‘em I knew. You’re always glad to see somebody come and give their life to the Lord, and that was it.

	H:	So these folks—the half that you’re talking about—came looking to make a change and found your church as a home where they could make that change?

	E:	Yeah. One of the people that, he called himself my brother now. His name is Edward Walker. He went to Monroe Regional Hospital. His wife was one of them that drove with my wife as they both became nurses. But he’s been with me almost as long as I’ve been there. He’s down everything that I did. Real inspiring, because when I became pastor of church, I was one of the first—I remember Reverend Bronson down there. Pastor Shadygrove, he started a bus ministry.

When I got in the ministry, I started a bus ministry, but I had to drive the bus. As a pastor, I was driving the bus. Well, he was one that came and followed and said, “You ain’t got no business driving a bus. You’re our pastor. So I’ll drive the bus.” He later did that. He became a deacon in our church.

	H:	And a bus minister means what exactly?



	E:	It means getting your people to church and anybody else who might want to get on that bus to come to church.

	H:	So driving around and picking people up?







	E:	Yes.



	H:	Okay.



	E:	You know who’s coming to Sunday school and church. You go by there. Other people get on there, too. At that time, back when we first started, it was a means for them to get to church. I used to see a lot of people getting on that bus. They knew people in the neighborhood, but I didn’t know ‘em. They said they were friends of people in Mount Moriah.

	G:	So some of the impact would be those individuals that didn’t have fathers. You were a father figure to those. He’s a grandfather figure. He’s not just your typical minister. All of these people look up to him for various reasons. Of course he probably don’t even know who they are, but he’s just that person. I was telling him, “Well, he’ll probably talk straightforward to you.” I’m like a daughter.

	H:	You’re one of those people.

	G:	Yes, and it’s a lot of us. And I’m sure he couldn’t even name ‘em if he wanted to. E:	When I first started, I didn’t even get into that part, ‘cause I worked at Central



Florida Community College, and I retired from Central Florida Community College. I’m a bivocational pastor. I’ve never been say that I wanted to be dependent on the church for anything. Like I say, no contract, but I worked at Central Florida Community College for nineteen years.

	H:	As a—



	E:	Yeah.







	H:	What did you do there?



	E:	I really was a dean of minority affairs, because at that time it was a shortage of African Americans attending Central Florida Community College. They’d leave here and go somewhere else. Bethune or probably FAMU, Ed[ward] Waters in Jacksonville. But they didn’t go to Central Florida Community College. I had a job of going around and speaking to the schools, encouraging them to come to Central Florida Community College and helping them to get into Central Florida Community College, and with financial aid and stuff like that. Also, I’m trying to remember, but when the new classes would come in, all of a sudden—I don’t know how I got the job, but—I would be the inspirational speaker trying to encourage students to succeed in college. I did that. What was the name of the African American club that we would join that all the rest of the—

	G:	You talking about the African American Student Union?



	E:	Yeah, African American Student Union. Thank you. Central Florida Community College was involved with that. That’s all around the state, and we’d have conventions and stuff like that we would go to. And I got demoted—

	H:	What years did you work out there?



	E:	I’m trying to think when I retired from there. I bet I can count back. H:	Was this early in your ministerial career?

	E:	This is after I had finished college, after I had gotten my masters’ degree, and Howard Williams came here, and he joined our church. This is one of the guys I







still have communications with. He was vice president when Dr. Campion [01:46:30] became president of Central Florida Community College. I think that was after Dr. Goodman left. Campion became president. He came from Texas, and he brought with him Ike Williams, because the school was very low on minority students. So he was vice president at Central Florida Community College. He became a member of Mount Moriah. He found out I was working for the state at that time, certifying people for food stamps. I was kind of a supervisor of food stamp office.

	H:	Is this HRS back then?



	E:	I was doing that. Let’s put it to you that way. I was doing that. He found out that I had a master’s degree. He asked me if I was interested in coming working for the college. I reckon he fixed it up with the boss. Then I became, I did, when I got on campus, I was elevated to some degree. I had my own office and I was director. First I was minority student director there. Ended up dean of minority affairs. And ended up being—but I wasn’t a dean—just director of Hampton Campus.

	H:	Okay.



	E:	I have an etching on the wall.



	G:	And that’s when Hampton and CF were segregated—the colleges. So Hampton College is right up the street.

	H:	I missed where were the degrees. You had a master’s. Somewhere along the line you got a bachelor’s and—tell me?







	E:	BA, AA, MA.



	H:	And tell me, where did you get those degrees?



	E:	Well, I got the AA at Central Florida Community College. H:	Okay.

	E:	Then I got the BA and MA from University of Florida.



	H:	And how did you do that? Were you commuting like your wife was commuting?



	E:	I was commuting. I had a car that you could look down and see the road as you drive. God blessed me that that car—a 1961 Chevrolet—it went back and forth. I never had a flat tire. I never broke down on the road. And I went to—I’m trying to think—I think I graduated from CFCC in 1971. Ended up there, I think, in January of 1972. And I went all the way to 1974, I got my master’s degree from up here.

	H:	What was your master’s degree in?



	E:	My master’s degree was in rehabilitation counseling and psychology. My BA was in sociology and religion.

	H:	Okay. At that point you were already serving with the church?



	E:	Somewhere in there I was serving with the church, yes sir. In fact, yes, I can remember that. I went back to school while I was pastoring Mount Moriah except for right somewhere in the AA part of my education I became pastor of that church.







	H:	And it sounds like it’s been a dual career all along. You had a number of jobs on the side.

	E:	Call myself “bivocational pastor.” I’ve always had a job. Always. I didn’t never ever, I don’t remember, depending on the church for anything—not even housing. I lived in my own house. I didn’t have no sisters coming in there telling me what to do. My wife, we always had our own. In fact, I have a house on 1722 Southwest Fifth Place. That’s my house. That’s where I was. That’s the first house that I owned. Dr. Young, who became president of the NAACP after I got down, he built this house. My wife and his wife lived next door to each other at 1618 Southwest Third Street. I was living near at 1622 or something like that.

Southwest Third Street. So my wife and her was real close friends. Mrs. Barbara Young. Her name is Barbara, too. She didn’t drive. So my wife used to drive her everywhere that she needed to go, ‘cause my wife used to work at night. She worked at night. I would keep the children. When they was planning their house, my wife was just as busy planning this house as Mrs. Young was. In fact, if you go out, you’ll see she had a magnolia tree in the front yard and a magnolia tree in the backyard.

	G:	Weren’t both of ‘em different trees?



	E:	No. They planted right opposite of each other back right there. My wife, I think, had the backyard tree and Mrs. Young had the front yard tree. Magnolia trees. Mrs. Young told my wife, and told her husband, too, if anything ever happened to her, she wanted Barbara to have this house, because my wife helped plan this house. Mrs. Young died in the late [19]50s, and Dr. Young lived here. He had







three children, and all of them—one got married. Joanie Young got married. You know Jodie Young?

	G:	Unh-uh.



	E:	Joanie Young got married to a car dealer, and they out in the shores. Lester Young went into the service, and he ended up somewhere in South Carolina. That’s where he lived or was living. Then, I think, Gail Young, she went to California. So Dr. Young was in this house pretty much by himself, but he had a heart attack, and he couldn’t practice dentistry. He was a dentist. He couldn’t practice it like he used to. So he was falling behind and everything. I was in the dentist chair, and he asked me did Barbara still want this house. And I told him I’d ask Barbara. I was doing pretty good at that time working that job. She told me, yeah, she wanted the house. I told her— and so I took over the payments. I let him live there. I let him six or eight months after I bought his house, ‘till he finally got married again, and he moved to Tallahassee. That’s where he passed, out there.

	H:	That’s when you moved in then?



	E:	Yeah, and then we moved in. I didn’t put him out. He and I were good friends, and his wife and my wife were really good friends.

	H:	You said that—when I asked who you made an impact on, and you mentioned your sixty-two-year-old son. Then I asked you what message or what did you learn from your mother. What message would you like to leave your sons and the







rest of us out here? In terms of your life lessons, what would you feel are the most important things to—

	E:	Well, I would tell anybody: look for purpose, and find that purpose, and live that purpose. And that’s about all I can tell anybody. Look for it. And that’s what I was telling you when I thought about why I was called into the ministry. I thought it was because I was supposed to teach, preach, and stuff like that, but I didn’t know I was learning what was going to end up being my real purpose. That’s what I was taught. ‘Cause I would tell anybody that. I won’t tell nobody to go for the gold.

	H:	You look for the purpose.



	E:	Yeah. You find it. You live it. H:	And you live it.

	E:	Yep.



	H:	Well, Cynthia, what do you think? Do you have other questions that you would like to ask? That was a good closing point for me. I think we will both leave here, probably the two of you, when we leave here will think of other things you wanted to say, so I’m sure there will be more questions. But does this look like a good—

	G:	It’s so much.



	E:	Yeah, it’s so much that I can’t even tell you. When I was on the city council, I used to think that when I was a young boy, I couldn’t even ride the bus. I had to walk from 711 West Broadway there across—anyway that end—all the way to







the golf course to caddy. And I had to get there at a certain time, because the people I caddied for, they would always make tee times.

	H:	And there was public transportation, but you were not allowed to use it?



	E:	Public transportation, but we were not allowed—not even sit in the back of the bus. I had to walk. I would get there on time. I would get there to make that money. That’s all I was thinking about. I wasn’t thinking about it was wrong for me not to ride the bus. But any rate, when I became a city councilman, the one thing that I wanted to do was to see that we got city transportation for people around here, and that was one of the things that did happen.

	H:	I’m gonna plead ignorance to this. It sounds like there’s a transition. At one point there were busses you couldn’t ride at all, then there was a progression where you could ride the bus but only ride in the back?

	E:	Back, yeah.



	H:	I guess, this is brand new to me. So explain that one to me.



	E:	The buses, they went to completely out of business. The transportation system that I’m talking about initially went out of business. And when I became a city councilman, I saw the need that we needed city transportation. We got it now.

	H:	But when you got it was it still blacks in the back of the bus? E:	No, no, no.

	H:	No. So you went from no transportation at all to a fully integrated transportation system?







	E:	Yes.



	H:	Okay. So in Ocala there was never a situation where the blacks rode in the back of the bus?

	E:	I think so. I never did.



	H:	And how ‘bout the train? Do you remember anything about train traffic?



	E:	I know the trains used to come through, but I don’t know once I ever rode on a train.

	H:	Okay. But that was segregated as well, was it not—the train system? E:	Yeah. Yes, yes.

	G:	All transportation?



	E:	Yeah. Yeah. I think I rode on the train when I was going to Newark, and I rode the bus coming back, ‘cause I went to Rochester with the other uncle that I had over there that I hadn’t seen in a long time. So I went through there, and then I came home.

	H:	And then the [19]51 Mercury you bought here in Ocala, then? E:	Yes.

	H:	That’s what I wasn’t sure, whether you had bought that up— E:	Oh, no, I bought it in Ocala.

	H:	You bought it in Ocala.







	E:	Yeah, [19]51 Mercury. H:	Great, great.

	E:	First car.



	G:	I don’t have any questions at this time. I just wanted to listen in. But I’m going to be steering more towards the church.

	E:	Okay. Alright.



	G:	Metropolitan. Somebody’s telling me about this exposition building that used to be over here on Second and Warren Street.

	E:	Second and Warren Street? I know what you’re talking about.



	G:	Exposition. Some exposition building. And Saint John’s was on the corner. E:	Saint John’s was on the corner.

	G:	Right on the corner over there.



	E:	Well, I preached in Saint John’s on Second Street there, where they used to [inaudible 02:00:33].

	G:	Yeah.



	E:	And in fact, I preached there one Sunday. I think thirteen people—right after I started preaching, now—but thirteen people joined the church that Sunday at Saint John’s. I don’t know who they were, because I never was pastor of Saint John’s, but I remember that. It was an old, leaning church. In fact, they just about called me. They called somebody out of Orlando, and he built that new church.







	G:	Carter?



	E:	[inaudible 02:01:08]. Somebody before Carter, I think. G:	Mmhm.

	E:	Somebody before Carter, from out of Orlando. You remember? G:	I do, it’s wrote down.

	E:	It’s wrote down.



	H:	Well, why don’t we conclude this? E:	Okay.

	H:	Thank you so much for being with us this afternoon and sharing your stories. E:	I wish I—I know it’s a lot more than I—

	H:	We may have to come back another time, but for right now, thank you for this afternoon for sure.

	E:	Sure.



[End of Interview]



Transcribed by: Emma Donnelly, September 1, 2021 Audit-edited by: Sandra Romero, September 2, 2021 Final-edited by: Sandra Romero, September 7, 2021