AAHP 393; Fitzsimmons and Dupree; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 393 Rebecca Fitzsimmons and Sherry Sherrod Dupree African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Women Leaders Exhibit and Rosewood Exhibit presentation on October 28, 2015

47 minutes | 24 pages













































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 393

Presenters: Rebecca Fitzsimmons and Sherry Sherrod Dupree Event: Women Leaders Exhibit and Rosewood Exhibit presentation Date: October 28, 2015



	D:	This is the 28th of October of 2015, we’re at the University of Florida, and we’ll be doing a presentation this morning about exhibits. We’re gonna share this with people in the class today, and my name of course is Sheri Sherod Dupree, and we have Rebecca, who’s gonna give us information also, as she’s from the Matheson Center here in Gainesville, thank you.

	U:	Rebecca is gonna talk to us about the exhibit and other goings-on and that in Matheson.

	F:	So, thank you guys for having me in today. I thought that I would start out with a brief overview of curatorial responsibilities in a small history museum. If any of you are familiar with curating at, let’s say, an art museum, the process is a little bit different because our content is a little bit different, so while there’s some crossover in being a curator at any kind of institution, there’s these different shades of involvement with different types of collections. So the Matheson of course is a small collection of historical materials. They’re related to the Alachua County area, but also the surrounding environs, so it encompasses pretty much anywhere in the state of Florida. What that allows us to do is have both permanent collection exhibits and also temporary exhibits that let us explore topics that are usually a little wider ranging than what our permanent collection exhibits cover. So today, I’m going to talk a little bit about the current exhibit that we have, which is actually closing the 31st, so if you have a chance to get down there this week, I suggest going to see it ‘cause it’s quite an interesting set of materials in a topic that we’ve covered. It’s called “Saving the Sunshine State:





Women Leaders In the Twentieth Century,” and what it is is it’s a collection of materials related to six women who had tremendous impacts on the state of Florida. So I’d like to talk just a little bit about the curatorial process. When I started, I was kind of handed the title and a large idea, which was: so we’re gonna have this exhibit related to women in the twentieth century who were leaders in some capacity, and they had tremendous impacts on the state of Florida. We’ve kinda brainstormed a list of twelve that we think were important. Go. It’s kind of like, in many ways, whittling down a topic when you have to write a paper. You can’t really take something so broad and craft something that has a tremendous amount of meaning to it. So from those twelve women, some were— several on the list, I should say—were actually significant locally, but as you started to look at what kinds of things they were doing—one, for instance, was the namesake of the Matheson Museum. She’s an amazing woman, but you couldn’t necessarily see her impact on the broader state of Florida in quite the same way that you could with the other women that wound up making the cut for this exhibit. So in reviewing the initial twelve women, cut it down to a list of five, and then added one more who I thought went well with those women. Now to say there’s only six women who had tremendous impacts in the twentieth century on Florida is, of course, ridiculous. There were many people who were doing amazing things, but a part of this selection criteria was not just women who were highly notable, but also women that had something in common because what you run the risk of with an exhibit like this is just having a series of biographies, right? So it would’ve been really easy to say Mary McLeod Bethune. This is





everything that—not everything, but of course—this is the material that’s significant about her life. And now we have Zora Neale Hurston, and here’s everything that’s significant about her. And here’s Marjory Stoneman Douglas, and so forth. But kind of a more interesting approach is to start looking at these women—or what I did anyway—was to start looking at these women and saying, “Okay, what kinds of work were they doing? What kinds of things were they doing? What kinds of things did they have in common? And where are areas of crossover that one might find between them?” So from that list of six that we kind of narrowed it down to, I came up with three themes to sort of guide the organization of the exhibit. So we had education, writing, and environmental activism as a theme, and so each woman here fit within one or more of those broader themes in terms of the kinds of work she was doing. Now of course, in doing that, I also had to exclude a lot of the really significant work that these women were doing because, for instance, Mary McLeod Bethune was engaged in so much work with civil rights and social justice, it didn’t fit within the themes that we were covering here. So that was part of the process of editing it down to make everything fit within a cohesive narrative. So from the six, again, the themes wound up being education, writing, and environmental activism. So once I had kind of narrowed that down and created a narrative, I had to go in search of—well it’s sort of, this is kind of a fluid process, I should say. I’d been looking at the kinds of documents that were available to showcase the work that each woman was doing, but then I really, upon settling on these themes, had to figure out what documents would support that. Where were the areas of crossover that





I wanted to cover? And start just compiling and compiling and compiling. So the work in this particular exhibit is actually called, in part from our own collections, we have loans from the Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings House State Park, we have materials from the Bethune-Cookman University Foundation, and also many, many materials from the special and area studies collection, and I think within the US special collections alone, there’s materials from six different collections because what’s interesting is a lot of these letters wind up appearing in other collections. So there’s things pulled from Senator Bob Graham’s papers, for instance, his correspondence with Marjory Stoneman Douglas was a really important piece of explaining her life. So my point being you have to cast a very wide net when you’re looking at materials and you’re not saying, “I’m going to curate just from within our own collections, but instead I’m going to let it be story- driven or narrative-driven, so I’m gonna look outside and find every possible resource that I can to see what I can pull in,” and so that was—that’s largely the aim of what we do with the temporary exhibits at the Matheson. We wanna focus on things that are in our permanent collections for those types of exhibits, but for these temporary exhibits, again, if we have materials from our collection, great, we use them, but we also look far outside, and that’s actually an opportunity to create partnerships as well, when you start talking to other people, other curators, other archivists, about the collection materials that they have, you start to develop relationships that not only lead to co-curatorial opportunities, but also to amazing programs that go with things. And speaking of programs, I should mention one thing that I was handed with this exhibit too was a set of programs





that were partially in progress and one of those was, there had been some planning about maybe having a fashion show as part of the programming for this, and it’s a really fun idea, I was gonna focus on costumes, and it was gonna be done in collaboration with the Hippodrome. However, it’s kind of problematic when you start to think about having a fashion show related to the work that these women were doing, it doesn’t have anything to do with their lives or the kinds of work that they were doing, and so that’s part of editing too, you have to make some hard choices sometimes, and say, “No, that’s actually not gonna fit here, we need to table that idea for some place where it makes more sense and it’s, in this case, not going to be offensive.” So to speak. So you wind up, again, having to edit sort of ruthlessly in service of a narrative, and so what you see here, for instance, is a set of images that were used in relation to Zora Neale Hurston. Again, I had to keep it focused on the themes that she was fitting into, so I fit her into the education as well as the writing categories, and one thing that I felt like was a real opportunity to help people to learn a little bit more about her was to showcase the work that she had done with the Federal Writer’s Project, which was part of the New Deal. And so the images that you see here really aren’t related to her career as a writer, which is what most people are familiar with, but instead are related largely to her work as an anthropologist, going out and creating field recordings and many of those still exist and are archived through the Library of Congress, and then she used those recordings in her notes to write essays. So a lot of what we know, for instance, about the turpentine camp culture that was prevalent in this area, we know from the essays





that she wrote and the field work that she did, and you can also hear her voice on a lot of these recordings, and she recounts stories that she learned. So to me that was an important element to fit in to showcase something that’s less commonly known about here. But again, that also made up a really important piece of her history, and again, is significant today because scholars still look to her works to learn things about African American culture in Florida in the early part of the century. And then the same with Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings, she’s an interesting figure, because again we look at her mostly as a writer, but she was also, in addition to her novels and short stories, producing a lot of work related to her feelings about Florida and her feelings about the environment, so she was writing tremendous numbers of essays that people tend at least to be less familiar with. So she’s writing things about the timber industry, and she’s writing things, for instance, an article called, “Florida Land of Contrasts,” where she’s talking about the changes that she sees going on, she’s talking about sort of predicting the death of this kind of old Florida cracker lifestyle that she’s so in love with, and she’s so well-known now for writing about in her own works. So she’s talking about these things in a way that really is kind of a public service, so to speak. She’s lamenting the decline, but she’s also getting it out there to what would then have been a wider audience as she was publishing a lot of this in popular magazines, so that people had a better understanding of what she was seeing, and what she loved about Florida. Sorry my Royal Palm State Park. It’s actually a blueprint that shows Royal Palm State Park as about this large, and it shows it in comparison to the Everglades drainage district, so the idea was so





that you could get a sense of how tiny the Royal Palm State Park, which is a precursor to the Everglades National Park, would’ve been. And we also have here, speaking about inclusion and what’s important to include, what’s also important is what you exclude from these exhibits. So here, I love this picture of Mary McLeod Bethune. She’s, you know, her stature and she’s so powerful in this picture, but she’s also talking about civil rights and social justice issues and things that just didn’t have the space in this particular exhibit because the focus on her was as an educator and all of the incredible work that she did throughout Florida in education. So again, you wind up with these items that you kind of love for one reason or another, sometimes they’re just aesthetically beautiful, sometimes they’re a really important document but you know that no one’s gonna read it ‘cause it’s just too wordy, and so this is where you get into these hard choices that you have to make. For everything that’s included in this exhibit, there’s four times as much that I had to cut out, so at some point, my living room was littered with tiny thumbnails as I’m moving things around, and just having to cut and cut and cut in stages, and there was some things that I really, really loved that I just had to let go, ultimately, because it didn’t serve the greater narrative that I was trying to put together. And here is one of my favorite examples of something that I had to let go. This is related to Zora Neale Hurston, and part of what was sort of tragic about the end of her life—not sort of, it was— is that she died in a state of just abject poverty, and she passed away in a welfare hospital, and so when she died, they ordered that all of her possessions be burned and that included letters and manuscripts that she had in her house.





So this was in the process of being done and then a friend who happened to be a police officer happened to walk by the house while this burning was in process and he ran in and put the fire out, and so he had saved a lot of the correspondence and the really significant documents that give us a sense of who she was beyond her persona as a writer, but we actually don’t really know how much material we lost. And so here’s kind of the burned pages of one of her manuscripts, and there’s also a lot of photographs, including I think the last known photograph that was taken of her, and that one has charred edges too.

And they’re really powerful documents, and they’re really beautiful. But again, I wound up having to let them go because they didn’t fit the broader narrative that was being told throughout the exhibit. So in addition to what you exclude and include on an object basis, there’s also the same thing that happens with your text. The fact is that nobody is going to read tremendous amounts of text. We’re not writing books, we’re trying to engage people, and we have to understand that some people will come in and read everything that you have written down, and I personally am a fan of putting extended labels with every object to explain something about it. That said, you’re looking at not that many words, like about two hundred is the top number of words that you really wanna have on a label explaining any one thing, and from there, you have to remember that there’s a lot of people that aren’t going to read them. Or they’re gonna read a few here and there. Some people won’t read any. Some people will just read the title text. So you have to figure out ways to use the materials so that they visually tell a story, in addition to the text that you’re adding, and again, you’re not writing a book, so





you have to keep that in mind if everything—especially some of the dependent documents that I was talking about—aren’t sort of self-explanatory, or explain with a brief title. You sometimes have to let those go for the sake of clarity of your narrative. That said, there’s lots of opportunities to add additional content, and so what you’re seeing here is a gallery guide. Granted, it’s a short one, but it’s a takeaway that people can go out and read a little bit more about the women in the exhibit, and also it includes some links to other content. This is a great way, if you haven’t been able to include, or audio or video, oral histories, things like that, this is a great way to kind of fit them in for people to look at at home on their own time. What we’re seeking to do of course, is to really inspire people to go out after this and to look more, and to do their own types of research. So I’m gonna pull up really quickly the last thing that I wanna show you guys. So this is also a companion to the exhibit, and this is another great way to kind of extend what you’re able to do within the physical space, and so here, this is a companion exhibit, that focuses on women in Florida, and so you can navigate, and I’ve put more text here than what I might’ve been able to include in the gallery space, and then I was able to focus on different women and add a more local trajectory to the exhibit because everyone that was covered, with the exception of Marjorie Harris Carr, in the exhibit was really not local, and so, in here, you can see there’s much much much more text than I could ever include on any kind of a label. So my advice, if any of you start to do curation, is think from the start about the digital curation aspects of that. Sometime your show can exist on its own as a digital exhibit, but either way, a digital companion of some sort is a good one to





use. And this, I should mention, is Neatline, and I kinda like it because it has mapping features, so you can navigate through the maps, but you can also navigate through timelines. So if you have material that you don’t want to arrange in a chronological manner, but it seems like that chronology would be helpful to having people understand it, this is a good tool to work that in without being necessarily bound by that chronological order in your physical gallery space. And with that I’m gonna wrap it up and let Sheri take over.

	U:	So we have a few minutes for questions for Rebecca, if you have any, and I should also note, that we are the subjects of oral history, so to speak, today because Sheri is recording this presentation so this will all be archived in the program and Sheri can describe a little bit of that. So any questions for Rebecca about her work at Matheson?

	X1:	What makes you interested in doing this type of, this way of life?



	F:	That’s a really good question. So I started out in museum education, actually, and—well, I started out in fine arts, and I went into museum education, and so as I was doing that, I was really interested in engagement of talking directly to people who were coming into gallery spaces and that aspect of it is actually really exciting, but I wanted a little more hands-on work, I wanted to be able to do research that was a little bit more in depth because of course, what you’re seeing when you go into any gallery space is like the tiniest, tiniest amount of what people have delved into in preparing the exhibits that you’re seeing. So what I was finding was that when I was in education, I was kind of getting just an overview and I wanted to have time to really delve into it more without sacrificing





the ability to interact with people and to try to inspire and engage with members of the public. So that’s why being a curator, and an archivist for that matter, were a really great fit. You have elements of both.

	X2:	Where are you from?



	F:	Originally I’m from upstate New York, but I did my master’s in fine arts at the University of Illinois, and then I came down to Florida, so I’ve been in Gainesville for about six years now. And I work with the Matheson, if that’s what you were asking, about my background.

	X3:	It’s important to your background. F:	Yeah.

	X4:	I was just wondering how long does it take you to put together an exhibit.



	F:	So that’s a really good question. This one I put together in about two months. But it was really challenging to do that and it was basically because there’s—and this is continuing right now there—there’s a set scheduled for exhibits and so they have opening dates already, and you just kind of have to just pull it together, and research and research. Sometimes it felt like around the clock. In an ideal world, you really wanna be planning out much farther than that. A year is much better. If you can get out even farther than that, that’s even better. And that gives you time to do, not just the things that you’re seeing here, but to really think about programs that are gonna go with it, the kind of marketing that’s gonna be done, it gives you time to really get out and go view collections that maybe are not geographically close if you need to, to talk to people, other curators, other librarians, archivists, anybody who has access to that material. It’s much easier if





you can be working out farther than that. Now if you’re talking about something very small in nature, two or three months is perfectly doable without feeling the pressure of the deadlines.

	U:	So Sheri Dupree, I’ll just abbreviate her biography. Just a couple of key points to know for the sake of time we have. In 1983—so Sheri’s kind of an icon on campus in 1983, she became the first reference librarians for African American heritage at UF, she worked for a long time just across the way in Library West as a reference librarian, and tell me your title again, with the current work you do on Rosewood.

	D:	Well, right now with Rosewood—we have the Rosewood Heritage Foundation, and so I serve as one of the Rosewood Heritage Foundation members. I do a little bit of everything, from history, speaking, whatever is needed.

	U:	Okay, very good. [Inaudible 22:58]



	D:	Okay, thank you. It’s a pleasure to be before you this morning and to share with you about Rosewood. How many of you had an opportunity to see the film that I sent a tape for? Did you get a chance to view that? So we know where Rosewood is and a little bit about Rosewood? For those that haven’t had an opportunity, you’ll get a chance to know that very soon. The Rosewood family reunion was started in [19]85 in Lacoochee, Florida, and it was started by Annie Bell Lee, but the purpose of it was to get the family together. And the group was, at that time, asked to have an exhibit. So an exhibit group was formed within that. Shakir, myself, Michael Hall, who works here at the University of Florida over in the Marston Science Library, Janie Bradley Black, Stephanie Hall, my husband





Herbert Dupree, Bonnie Burgess, who was at one time the mayor of Alachua, and Benea Ousley Denson, who was in the movie, the Rosewood movie. How many of you got to see that, that came out a few years ago, by the Warner Brothers Company? Okay, well Benea was in the movie. Ideas for the Rosewood exhibit. What started this, we gave a ceremony which was known as a remembrance ceremony in 1994, and this was right after the Claims Bill was accepted. And they said, “Why was the Rosewood exhibit built?” It was built because the Fort family wanted the history of Rosewood told from 1924 up ‘til 1994 when the Claims Bill was accepted and passed in the state of Florida. The Rosewood display items are a few of what we have. We have a old calculator that the Hall General Store had. We had the octagon soap—you ever heard of octagon soap, that people used for washing? A lot of cleaning and so forth. We found two jars of food in the woods down in the Gulf Hamilton area that had been hidden to help take care of the people while they were out in those woods. These jars are quite old. This one looks like tomatoes and this was some type of peas. And we have preserved those jars for the exhibit. This is a portion of the railroad track out of the area. And this item is a turpentine wood cutter. You can see the portion up here, this is the part that does the cutting, and this is the handle portion. But the key thing is this dress. This was worn by Sophie Monroe from Rosewood, and I’ll talk more about that. And then the quilt was one that came out of Rosewood, and you can see how raggedy that quilt is, and we purposely will not have it fixed, we wanna keep it that way so you can see the cotton falling out of it, and the type of materials that were used. It’s very fragile, but yet we keep it





and use it for our exhibits. Now the Rosewood family members decided that they needed a Rosewood shield, and the shield came about and we started with the term “the Rosewood” the word “Rosewood,” and it’s burning—this is showing Rosewood burning. It was founded in 1845, now that’s when Florida was founded. Rosewood was founded in 1824, long before Florida was incorporated as a state. And we can talk more about that later. The word “rose” is for the rose that you see, the two story homes—there were over two dozen two story homes that had picket fences and very nice homes, but when you read about Rosewood, you see a shack, and this old shack is burning. There were some shacks there that were part of the turpentine mill, but you see how things get distorted from the truth. Alright, the moon was shining during the time in January. The woods were the hiding place in here. The woods, the train took women and children from Rosewood. Here’s the train. And January of 1923, we did not want people to forget. The Florida town burning. That’s what this is, and if you look at that, you can see a town burning. This was designed by Michael Howell, and as I said, Michael is here at the University of Florida. Now we have children and others that come to our displays and we want everybody to be included, so we give out these little train whistles, and the kids love it because sometimes it gives them a chance to have a—they have a packet. So we have games for them, we have different types of toys that children used at that time. We show them marbles, and all kinds of little simple toys. So they have a good time, too, at the exhibit. Now grant and exhibit writing started in [19]94 to [19]95. The Florida Humanities Council grant was written by Annette Goins Shakir, by the way





Annette is now deceased, she was a Rosewood family member. She was a Goins. And of course, I am not a Rosewood family member. But they have adopted me into the family many years ago. So in [19]94, with the help of the Matheson Center as our nonprofit organization, we wrote our grant. At that time, I was on the board for the Matheson Historical Center. In [19]95, the Rosewood Heritage Foundation received the 501c3, so then we could go back in and say, “Yes, we want to do this grant,” but you had to have that in order to write the grant. And Matheson was very kind to us. I mean, they just opened up the doors and said, “Yes.” The grant was revised and funded in [19]95. It was funded for research, building, presentation, traveling to the Rosewood massacre exhibit was to be done in the state of Florida. Now we carried it all over the country, all over the world. But for that first year, it had to stay in Florida because that was portions of the grant. Writing the grant in script was done many times for clarity of our grant, the title, the text, and the labels. Keep in mind when you start doing this work, it’s very, very time-consuming, and Rebecca has already shared that with you. You’re gonna really not sleep a whole lotta nights when you’re doing this type of work. The title and the outline of the exhibit: “The Rosewood Traveling Exhibit: The Beginning That Never Ends.” Now this came through the family. They said, “We came here, we know what has happened, all these things that was the beginning, but it will never end. It never ends. We suffered, and we continue to suffer.” Now we divided this exhibit into units. Unit one was the history and the beginning of Rosewood. Unit two dealt with family life; the men, the women, the children, recreation, basketball, fishing, what did they do? How





did they enjoy life? Unit three told the story of Rosewood, which was very detailed. The accounts came from the survivors, descendants of their stories, and from the Seminole Indians, which you don’t hear. The Seminole Indians were very prevalent in helping in the woods. And they were very prevalent in the area. But you never hear that the Indians were there. Unit four dealt with the legislative action of the family, court documents, and we used the 1993 document that was given to the legislators to help us in putting that fourth unit together. And of course the newspaper accounts. The fifth unit was the Seminole newspaper stories of the massacre. And that was not added until 1999. Chief Billie, who was head of the Seminoles in Florida, gave condition for us to use the Rosewood information, and they covered the Rosewood trial in Tallahassee. Also, they carried the Rosewood story told by family members. The other newspapers wouldn’t do it. But the Indian newspaper gave us what was necessary for us to get the truth because things are whitewashed, as you understand, in our news services. And the Indians of course, they were in the woods, they helped the Rosewood families and neighboring communities. And we tried to bring that out. Now in the gathering of the primary sources for the Rosewood exhibit, the first thing that we had to keep in mind was the family reunions, interviews, and leads from the family. They gave us more information than anybody else could ever.

Oral interviews were done with family members, friends in Levy County, surrounding counties, of course, the Samuel Proctor Oral History Project, here at the University of Florida, has Mary Hall Daniels’ interview. She’s the last living survivor. She’s in Hilliard, Florida today. Letter writing, telephone calls, internet





communication—remember in the early [19]90s, we didn’t have the use of the internet that we have today. So therefore, we had to do letter writing. We got old and current newspapers, UF was outstanding for us. The microfilm area here was just wonderful because it had all of these old newspapers from the state of Florida. So we just camped out, we would come and just stay every day, practically going through trying to find what was available. We visited the police and fire departments. And Gainesville’s Fire Department and police was outstanding. From then, we were able to find one of the badges that was used down in Levy County—they have all kinds of stuff. All kinds of weaponry. History of what was going on at that time. It was one of the best things that I ever did was to go into the police department and I kept going back practically every day for more history, and spending time, and they even assigned a policeman to work with me to help us get information. We went back and talked about Sheriff Ramsey who was the sheriff in Alachua County. We talked about Sheriff Walker who was in Levy County. We got in a lot of details there. We got a chance to visit the courthouse because we had to find the records as to where people lived and how things were set and established. Some of those people had paid their taxes through 1924, this happened in 1923. You see the difference of what was going on and how things are so important for you to get, especially from primary documents. Alright, now the research we did, the military, local, state, federal, and government—now you say, “Why did we do that?” The FBI files, we went through those in Tallahassee. We went through those in Jacksonville, and in Tampa. In Tampa, they were ready to send help. They had gotten people





together that were gonna come, but they were not dispersed because the government didn’t give them permission to send. So the letter writing in museums and libraries and archives is what you usually most comfortable with. I did send the handout from the Cody Firearm Museum, and that—I think you have it right here. We sent letters everywhere. And this letter states that in April 2nd of 1914, there was a rifle that was sold, and that was sold and shipped in February 8th of 1915. They gave the order number. The rifle was shipped to Sheriff Bob E. Walker, Bronson, Florida. That gun was used during the time of the Rosewood Massacre. It was shipped out of the Baird warehouse right here in Gainesville.

We went to the warehouse. They didn’t have their records. We got it through the archives, and of course, for the Cody Museum, and of course, they weren’t able to tell us much more than that, but just to find out history, you gotta go past the museums, please, and the libraries, and the archives. You gotta dig and work with the people. You gotta prevent plagiarism in your textbooks, I went through that and just scanned it. It says, “Plagiarism is something that can cause you a lot of problems.” Now we asked to use this particular picture, and we did not receive approval until after the exhibit was built. We didn’t use the picture in the exhibit. You don’t use things until you have the right of way, ‘cause we could’ve been sued from here to heaven, and we don’t wanna go there right now. We wanna stay down here a little while longer. And then at the bottom, it said, “A White mob inspecting the charred remains of the Black houses in Rosewood, Florida.” And it was in the Florida Literary Digest pictures, it was used with permission, but it was in the New York Literary Digest. At that time, that’s what it





was called. Today, it’s called the Reader’s Digest. You know you’ve read the Reader’s Digest. And it was in the January 20th issue. We tried to get more information, but after the exhibit, they opened up their doors and allowed us to have not only this picture, but other materials. Now we did some traveling at that time. A special collection to Old Dominion University in North Virginia. Now you said, “Why are Rosewood documents there?” ‘Cause Michael D’Orso was writing a book on Rosewood. Like Judgment Day is the title of the book. So he got all of the interviews that had been done in Florida, and all the materials. This is his alma mater, so he sent everything to Virginia and had it catalogued. There are fifteen large units there on Rosewood. Many of those taped interviews cannot be opened for another ten or fifteen years because you can put a lien on it to hold it, as an archivist, you can do that. And so we found just tons of material. Florida didn’t have it. It wasn’t here. It was gone. It was up there in Virginia. And this is common when we do this type of research. A lot of research that’s done on the south is in Canada. A lot of it’s in England. A lot of it’s in South America. They get it outta here as quickly as they can, so that it’s not available. And so the newspapers can’t get it, other people can’t get, we don’t know anything about it. This is what happens a lot with history. Storyboard text and layouts. Several family members, we did meetings all just constantly. One strategy was held at the Matheson museum, and we brought in Richard Newman, who was a director of the New York Public Library, and he was our Rosewood consultant because he had worked on many national humanities counsel grants. And so he was called in and he came to Florida, and we had a wonderful time. With the help of





the Smithsonian Institution, traveling exhibit service, it’s called, “SITES,” and I have a handout on that as you can see. There were some friends of mind that I knew because I’m Smithsonian Fellow, and we came together, and they helped me to get this exhibit format. And then once we got that we could move. And of course that was Gail Lowe and Niani Kilkinney and and Spencer Crew. Spencer and I still good friends today. Annette and I wrote the grant, and we selected pictures, items, displays, reported to the senior citizens cause these were the two ladies that kept us on track. The Rosewood women. Annie Bell Lee and Altimus Wrispers. And we would call them, and they’d tell us no, add, do this, I’ll get it for you, that was the type of way they operated with us. The exhibit building was done by John Jones and Michael Howell, and Michael is here at the University.

Harmon’s Photo and Harrell’s Frame Shop here did a lot of the framing for us, and Michael did the actual putting together the base of the exhibit, the framing, the box, the travel cases, and so forth. Now the Rosewood family members and the general public came to the grand opening. And this was in Gainesville at the Fifth Avenue Arts Festival in May of [19]98. We had the Seminole newspaper’s account, and that came out like I said in 1999. And it’s wonderful. It gave details that you won’t get anywhere else. And then coming next year, the original dress worn by Sophie Munroe, who died in the Rosewood massacre, but was not listed—see this is information you get that’s primary and from family—and was killed down there. Her dress will be on display at the African American History Museum on the mall. Smithsonian Institute, Washington D.C., Institution. And of course, Rose Marie McCloud did the dress, saved it, and we have copies of that





dress that we can share with people today. The story of Sophia Monroe, I do need to tell you quickly—the reason she was burned and killed down there in Rosewood, she had just had a baby. The baby was less than two weeks old. His nickname was Buster. Buster was a little baby boy, and she was in Aunt Sarah’s house. When the people had to run from Aunt Sarah’s house, she was not physically able to go. So Sylvester’s wife Gertrude took Buster, they gave her the last rites, and they ran. And so she stayed in the house and she was destroyed. And of course the house eventually was burned. And the dress that we have, and we have a few other clothes from her, some of them were in Gainesville where she had visited with family just that few weeks before the baby was born, so we have some of her clothing that we share, and this is one of the dresses going on the mall. The end is just the beginning. This is another part, and this is the last portion of the exhibit. Remember Rosewood, and you can remember it by going to displaysforschools.com, Rosewood. Or I’m gonna click on this link, we’re constantly out doing work in the community, and we got to schools, community centers, churches, and other places sharing information on Rosewood. This was done in September, down in Lakeland, Florida, and we started at 7:30 in the morning until about 4 in the afternoon. We entertained 350 to 400 people every hour. We had all the students to come through there and you can see me here with one of the groups of students, and if you—this is our only living Rosewood survivor, as I told you, and she put on her T-shirt so that we could get a picture and have it for this occasion—so you might want to at some time you can go back and look at that. And let’s see if I get back here—oh I got it right here, there





we go. Alright, now the next one is our bibliography. Gary Moore, I think, will be coming to Gainesville soon, am I correct, to the Matheson?

	F:	Yeah, we’re still finalizing the date.



	D:	Yeah, he’s coming in February, and Ed Bradley. Have y’all ever watched 60 Minutes on TV? I know you know about 60 Minutes. Ed Bradley’s grandfather was from Rosewood, and so when Gary opened up the story, it opened the door for Ed to do a 60 Minute presentation—you watch 60 Minutes on TV. And they did this in [19]85. And then the report came out in [19]93, and then Michael D’Orso, the collection that we went up to Virginia to see came out in [19]96, and then the movie came out in [19]97. Jamie and John couldn’t be with you today. They wish you all well at the University of Florida. These are people on our foundation. And I just put on here, this is a little book—what do you put it on your door? And when we go in the communities, we leave that so people in the community will come and see our exhibit. And we go to the churches and so forth and we put these on the doors and leave them. And when we get through, the community is there. ‘Cause they want to know. Questions?

	X5:	Did y’all do any formal interviews of White survivors?



	D:	Oh yes, and I almost mentioned that we had four White survivors and we have contacted them. The Carrie family, the Pillsbury family, John Wright, ‘cause if he hadn’t engineered that train, we couldn’t’ve got women and children out of there. He was White. So yes, there were four main Whites that helped with Rosewood, and we have honored them, we have special programs for them at the University of Florida here, we’ve had them at the Thomas Center here in Gainesville, and





we’ve gone all around to Mebane and other places to have programs to honor them. Yes, it’s most important. It’s a group effort. And the Indians too, we’ve had a few of them come in, and still will chat with us, but they know the value this work is having. And they were over there telling those people where to go, how to move, ‘cause of the trees, and so if they were alone out there, it would’ve been a mess. And I didn’t tell you that they had dogs out there. And I will tell you one little quick story. With the dogs—the dogs were trained, so they knew whistles and so forth. They would take food and put it on the dogs belly, and put the dogs down and fasten it, and send them to the right place, and take the food, give them a note, and send them back. That was just one way that they communicate, and the Indians were the ones on top of that because they made sure those dogs didn’t get in the wrong direction. And they kept them going, and that was communication back and forth, from the house, from what was going on in the fields, and everywhere. So it gave them a means, and that’s just one means of communication. Yes.

	X6:	What was the lady’s name that had the baby—Sophia Munroe? D:	Yes, Sophia Munroe.

	X6:	I wanted to ask, is there a reason why she stayed?



	D:	Yeah, she was not able to get out of the bed. When women have babies, a long time ago, they didn’t get up and run like they do now.

	X6:	You said it was two weeks since she had—



	D:	Two weeks. Buster was two weeks old, and she also had some other health issues. She couldn’t get up and leave, and so they didn’t care ‘cause everybody





was running for their lives. There were two people at the front door, and so they got startled. But that was why. Now today the ladies have babies in two weeks and they get up and go. But then, they could not move as fast as us.

	X6:	I assume that back then they didn’t have the same rights or access to healthcare.



	D:	Right, ‘cause everything was done with a midwife at home. And so therefore, you just didn’t have the services as you said, to make things more easy or make them easier for them to move forward. Okay thank you so much.

	U:	We appreciate you coming today. [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Chris Calton, September 17, 2018



	Audit edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, September 27, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 26, 2019