AAHP 247B; Blakely; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 247B Bettie Blakely

Interviewed by Ryan Morini and Justin Dunnavant on December 15, 2014 1 hour, 34 minutes | 42 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Mrs. Bettie Blakely describes her involvement with CORE in Tallahassee and Dunnellon as well as her relationships with Zev Aelony, Patricia Stephens Due, Reverend Townsend, and Reverend Frank Pinkston. She became involved with civil rights demonstrations at FAMU with Patricia Stephens Due and her CORE chapter. She was one of the students teargassed during a march toward downtown Tallahassee with Patricia and Priscilla Stephens. Following the school year of 1963, Mrs. Blakely started her own CORE chapter in Dunnellon, Florida with Zev Aelony. They would hold meetings at either First Bethel Missionary Baptist Church or Union Baptist Church and picket at local White-owned restaurants and stores. Mrs.

Blakely also describes her mother’s work at Rainbow Springs, which employed Black people but did not allow them entry to the park. Instead, they visited Paradise Park, a section in Silver Springs reserved for Black people.





Keywords: [African American History; Civil Rights Movement; CORE; Gadsden County, Florida; Marion County, Florida; Paradise Park]





































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 247B

Interviewee: Bettie Blakely

Interviewer: Ryan Morini and Justin Dunnavant Date: December 15, 2014



	B:	He was a part of that association wherever we went for like, it was a national, some school convention or the church was a part of? You know, the Baptist Church where we used to have a Baptist youth program and Sunday School and the church would send delegates and we sent young people and you know, for a long time the church was the only leadership training organization open to African American youth.

	M:	At Bethel Baptist, specifically—?



	B:	Yeah, this was the Baptist and I don’t know what actually that organization but our church was called First Bethel Missionary Baptist Church.

	M:	Okay.



	B:	And so I often times would end up going as a delegate to that and that’s my first memory of Reverend Pinkston and then I didn’t know a lot about Frank, but Frank was very charismatic, that’s what I remember about Frank. And then it wasn’t along after that that he became ill and it became known that he was ill, but they had the church Reverend Pinkston’s Church—

	M:	Oh, over—Covenant.



	B:	Covenant Baptist Church and so Covenant was the hub of the movement in Ocala, but their organization was the NAACP and we were in Dunnellon. Well, I got involved with the demonstrations at FAMU and so Patricia Due, Patricia Stevens Due, was the person who was leading that movement and so at the summer of [19]63 when the school year was over and we had been to the movie theaters and done all of this demonstrating and everything and it just kind of





seemed like a no brainer that if it’s good for Tallahassee it’s good for Dunnellon. And so I started campaigning some churches and saying, the world is changing and if we don’t get involved it will leave us behind and got some other youth involved. And so we started our picket line in Dunnellon, started a small CORE chapter. Zev Aelony, did you hear about Zev?

	D:	Yeah. Zev was wonderful.



	B:	And so Zev came down to help us get organized and while Zev was here we were picketing a restaurant that the woman was an adamant racist, and she used to come out on the sidewalk and yell at us, “Get off my sidewalk,” you know, all kinds of things and so the police came and arrested Zev. He’s not doing anything and they charged him with loitering and took him to jail and kind of told prisoners in there what he was up to and they assaulted Zev and so from there things started to kind of snowball and so but that’s kinda how it got started.

	D:	Could you tell us a little more about Zev? We’ve heard different stories from different people but not too many people have worked directly with him.

	B:	Zev was a very, very—he was tall, and I don’t think he had the beard at the time of Lakeland, but there was a woman in Georgia that wrote to Zev a lot. And her name escapes me right now, but she was quite elderly at the time, but Zev was very fond of her and she was kind of maybe like Zev’s mentor or whatever. And perhaps the name, if I find it, I’ll send it to you. But Zev came and did training for us on nonviolence and Zev was the epitome of non-violence. When they came and arrested Zev, you know, he was very peacefully protesting. He always had a very mild manner, never raised his voice, never seemed to get upset about





anything and so I think he must have stayed with us for probably a week, and then after Zev, Pat and Kenan, Pat Due and do you know, did you hear about—I forget what Kenan’s last name is but the two of them used to travel together.

	D:	Okay.



	B:	But Pat had a knack of hitchhiking, you know and so she and Kenan would get on the road and they would hitchhike from Tallahassee down here, hitchhike back, you know, this was strange, strange. But what I remember that about Zev was he was such a mild-mannered person. Never got upset, just really lived that theme of nonviolence. No matter what you did to Zev, he was never gonna raise his hands or his voice.

	M:	So you first met him in Tallahassee then or did you—?



	B:	No, CORE sent him to us in Dunnellon because we established our own little CORE group in Dunnellon and that’s why I was saying Ocala was saying NAACP, but we were CORE because in Tallahassee Pat Due was CORE and that’s how the CORE chapter started in Dunnellon and so they sent Zev down to us as our trainer, you know, to train us in nonviolent procedures so that was how Zev got to Dunnellon.

	M:	So he was specifically in Dunnellon, you said he was staying with you guys that was where it was?

	B:	Yeah, uh-huh.



	M:	Do you remember the name of the restaurant that you were trying to picket?



	B:	The woman’s name, they called her Ms. Mack and I don’t know what the—it was Mack Café as best as I recall, and I don’t know who else would know that.





	M:	Where was this? I’m sorry—



	B:	But we also picketed the theater. M:	Okay.

	B:	We also picketed the theater and then—did we do the theater first or—because the theater was segregated, it was Blacks bought tickets and run upstairs and then the Whites. And so eventually what happened was that the theater closed because they didn’t wanna have the trouble and I think that made to [inaudible 8:04].

	M:	And this was all in Dunnellon? Was this downtown?



	B:	It was downtown Dunnellon. And so Dunnellon is divided into two counties, Citrus County and Marion County and there is a much commercialing going on in Citrus County so we chose the Marion County side. And so once Ocala was having the mass meetings we joined in with their mass meetings because they were the people with the speakers and everything and so they started doing that. And I also did some—because once Zev got arrested, we picketed the jail because we felt that Zev had been, you know, he wasn’t doing anything and of course you heard about Judy, Judy Benninger, and it was later on that one day these—it was three guys and a girl showed up at my house and it was Dan, Jim—his brother Jim, Dana, and Judy and so that we kind of just became great friends and so we were between Dunnellon, Gainesville, and Ocala. And at that time the establishment in Dunnellon frowned upon Black people and Black businesses.

And one evening Judy and I were walking back from Marion County, Dunnellon,





and a friend of mine gave us a ride and the police came later that day and questioned him about why was he by us, so just kind of give it a little, you know.

	D:	So what was the nearest CORE chapter to you all then? Was it Tallahassee? B:	It would’ve been Tallahassee.

	D:	Okay.



	M:	So who was involved with setting up that CORE chapter? Were there a lot of members?

	B:	We probably had, I have a ledger with people who would sign in and I think we must have had maybe forty or fifty people, which was small hand. It wasn’t bad and then there were young people who were more and more involved and going to the picketing and get more involved. But that was just—I only did it for that summer because I was going back to FAMU in the fall and then they continued in Dunnellon with their program with the CORE chapter. It eventually died, but the one thing I’m proud of is that we had a Black man who became chief of police in Dunnellon and so that I think, our efforts—because in a little small town it could have very well have gone very unnoticed and nobody would’ve accepted the people in unless we decided to do something about it. But the other thing is also a battle that you can’t put down. You have to keep fighting and even if you fought it then it’s—you think you won something, you have to be very careful because some of ‘em will come and take that little from you.

	D:	So what was the mission of CORE when you initially started? Was your goal to desegregate the two buildings or was it beyond just desegregation? Did you have additional plans?





	B:	I don’t know that we had expressed plans. It was that to public accommodations that people were not doing. Like when the theater was in operation, you went next door to a drugstore and you had to go to the back of the—walk through the drugstore, go back at one corner and order your drinks and then take your drinks out. And while White people came in and ordered their drinks and sat down, Black people were not permitted to do that. And so after a while you begin to ask yourself the question, why is that so? And that there is something inherently wrong with the system that some people can do things because they are one color and we can’t do the same. And when I went to FAMU I had thought of that conscious ideas at that time and so that was through my involvement with Pat.

She was my real inspiration because she always talked about the injustice and why some people be privileged and others would not have privileges.

	D:	How did you meet Pat, if you don’t mind me asking?



	B:	I met her at FAMU. At the time she used to stand out the student union building at FAMU and make her speeches and then she would begin to tell people about how important it was to get moving but the other thing is the environment was also conducive to that ‘cause at AT&T they’d had the sit-ins and so you could feel the energy of the movement, pretty much like reminiscent now of the Trayvon Martin and—

	D:	Eric Garner.



	B:	And the gentleman in— D:	Mike Brown.





	B:	Yeah, yeah. You know how it just kind of begins to be infectious so I think what I see that now I think about those times when we were doing the demonstrations that was kind of like here.

	M:	If I can ask a little background; people have described Ocala had a thriving black business district but then there was also the downtown and the courthouse where people picketed. What was Dunnellon like in terms of, what was it like to go downtown prior to desegregation or did people stay out of it? Was there a separate business district or anything like that?

	B:	It was across from the church in Dunnellon. There used to be a group of businesses, black businesses. There was a barber shop, there was a café dealing with that. And then there’s another little section in Dunnellon called Chatmire, C-H-A-T-M-I-R-E, and that was the predominately Black community in Dunnellon and that was kind of far out and the other thing that was striking was the school bus, you know, that White people rode the school buses but Black people don’t, you know, and so that was another thing that was there. The differences in the school system and of course the schools were still very segregated and then they used to have kind of on the square that’s not there now, what’s a big, not big, fairly good size grocery store and I think it was like a Bob Rogers or something. He’s got realty, his name is on the realty company, but it was that and it was obviously a town that was dominated by White people. In Chatmire there were a few businesses but they were like night clubs, you know, people would go in, party on Friday night, Saturdays.

	M:	Okay. So were there things you had to go downtown for?





	B:	Well, you used to go downtown for the theater. That was the only entertainment in a little small town like that and then church. But you had to go downtown.

There was like a Western Auto, where you got appliances and things like that but they were White only and then usually what happened is that those businesses hired Black women to work and take care of their children and it was so useful to have that connection. If you saw the movie, The Help, it was when I watched that movie, it was—my mother used to work, you know, take care of a little girl, the housekeeper and I think she made like fifteen dollars a week when I was in high school. My dad and my stepfather worked for the railroad and he was a man who had done three years at a new house to get finished but he was quite literate and could do books and did a lot of work around but his job was that he had to get up at—I think he left home maybe at six-thirty to go to the depot. And then they didn’t have central heating, so in the wintertime he’d make the fire so that by the time the White people got there, you know, the railroad people—. And then, he would get off maybe about five o’clock and come home but there was a train called the Southland that he was responsible getting the mail on and whatever produce was supposed to get on that train. So it came through about ten o’clock at night, so our whole rhythm in our house was geared toward that, that Southland, that ten o’clock train and you know, we’d have to wake him up at a certain time ‘cause he’d go to sleep. Then he’d have to come back and then be back again the next morning at six thirty so you know, that’s the way it was. And I think Ms. Mack’s Café was probably the only restaurant you know, in that town





and she was also kinda had a really bad reputation of being nasty. She deserved what she got.

	D:	Do you know if she eventually shut down or she opened somewhere else?



	B:	I think that what happened is that she probably just aged out, you know. I don’t think she ever integrated her restaurants. I don’t think she ever did close down. And people were afraid, you know Black people were afraid. You know if you’re coming here, you’re creating this chaos and we were fine the way we were you know ‘cause they felt threatened a little bit. Like the Black people who worked for Ms. Mack. She might fire them or take things out on them. And so it wasn’t anything like worrying about whether anybody was gonna get lynched or anything, but certainly wasn’t you could keep your job.

	D:	Were most people employed by the railroad or was it a mix of different things that Blacks were employed?

	B:	It was the big—there used to be a place in not North Dunnellon, Rainbow Springs, and so tourism. It used to be a beautiful place and we used to have what was called the glass bottom boat and it rivaled the Silver Springs boat because you had a glass bottom boat. We walk over it in that. But these folks were actually had the passenger component under the water so they boarded the ship and then we went down and so when you rode through, you know, the fish were all riding around you. So it was a beautiful place. And then they also had a restaurant—‘cause my mother did work there when she was younger before she did the domestic work—and so a lot of Black people were employed as cooks, as dining room staff, and that kind of thing. So you had that and then there was a





mine in Dunnellon, okay, where people worked in the mine but there was also agriculture where people worked in the fields. So my stepdad, if there was another Black man who worked, there may have been but it wasn’t like there were a lot of people. Basically what they did was, it was a stop where the trains came through and loaded the freight on, it was a freight train, it wasn’t a passenger train, it was a freight train and so then he said we’re going down south, you know, Miami and all of that. Put in the produce it was mail, all these other documents that people had put on the trains.

M:  I’d like to open a question, I had a question to follow up with that but it’ll come back to me. Oh, that was it, shopping. Did people do most of their shopping in Dunnellon or did you head up to Ocala—?

B:   Ocala.



M:   Okay, so—



	B:	So most of it was done. We had like a little five and dime store. There was like a Farm and Feed store, Beacon’s and so that there were people bought products there because one gentleman who worked at that store for a long time is also here now, Mr. Saul. And it was probably one of the last businesses, most recent business to shut down. It had been in business for a long time. And also what happened at that Farm and Feed was it was also the bus stop so they sold tickets for the Greyhound bus and then so people would get in on and off the bus. But most of the commercial business was done in Ocala so if you needed to shop for dresses or—but now forwardly bought at that Roger’s store.





	M:	Okay. But so going to Ocala was a pretty common, not every day but every monthly, maybe—

	B:	Oh, no I would say once a week, you know, usually on Saturdays when we—at least a couple of times a month.

	M:	Was that then like a fun trip? I mean did you make a point of going, seeing anything else in Ocala or was it just the shopping?

	B:	Well, we went to see the doctor and we saw the doctor ‘cause in Dunnellon there was like one doctor, Dr. Wauth, W-A-U-T-H ‘cause I remember once I fell out of a tree, injured my arm and they took me there. But there was a doctor in Ocala named Dr. Lamb and Dr. Lamb pretty much took care of all the Black people in the area. And he was a GP, but he took my tonsils out, he delivered my brother, and he had office upstairs. I remember going up the steps there and saw Dr.

Lamb there. And pretty much because Dunnellon didn’t have much at that time. It’s grown quite a bit now but Ocala was still very much segregated, you know, still moved in that segregated life, because I remember sometimes we would go to a place to get lunch while we were shopping. And we had to go around the back, go to the back door, put your orders in, sit in the car and wait. I think that was the most humiliating thing. I just found that, you know, and then once you got your food you’d take it and sit in the car and eat it. And then that and riding the bus, where you had to go to the back of the bus. That was a Greyhound bus because there was no mobile transit.

	D:	So then aside from the mass meetings were you also involved in the picket lines?



And there would be the picket lines that would protest in Ocala?





	B:	Yes. Actually, I went to jail in Ocala and that we got arrested for picketing the jail when Zev was in and I did there and then we—I remember we went to a restaurant, and we had been trained to do this thing about the waitress comes out and says, you know, “Sir, we don’t serve Colored people.” We’d say, “Well we’d like to speak to the manager.” And then manager would come out and he’d kind of sit down and say, “We can’t do it,” you know, that kind of thing. I don’t remember anybody—I’ve never been spat on or anything that bad but didn’t— still, indignities in terms of one group of people could do this because they were White. And the other thing is I went to Inverness for high school and no science lab, no science teacher, the books that we got were hand me down books. It was books that had been used in the White schools and it was obvious, you know, that it was. And I suppose that was the most lasting thing because I think that second class education was probably the worst thing that ever happened to us. And I rode the bus for Dunnellon in Inverness. It was a segregated bus, you know, school bus. So things do change, they change.

	M:	Do you remember going up to the mass meetings in Ocala at all?



	B:	I remember one particularly with Ralph Abernathy, and were so funny because they put Dan on the program to do the scripture and I don’t know if he told you that story or not but he was not a churchgoing person but they had asked him. You know, ‘cause they would try to get everybody involved and so they had asked Dan and he said it so funny. [Laughter]. But Ralph Abernathy came, and he talked a lot about Martin Luther King and what was going on around the country and everything. But that was a really big thing when there was a mass





meeting because the music, the preaching, and Reverend Pinkston was also an excellent pastor. And then Frank after. And it was also a way of supporting each other, trying to get the ministers from Dunnellon to go and participate in mass meetings because many of them were reluctant to get involved in the movement. We had one minister in Dunnellon, Reverend Townsend and he was an elderly gentleman but he was always bold and encouraging, you know. Some other pastors were slow to come to the movement but finally, you know, came around and said, “Okay, you can”—and we had mass meetings at Dunnellon, too and— say, “You can use my church.”

	M:	Reverend Townsend, which church was his church?



	B:	Reverend Townsend’s church was Sacrament Baptist Church? U:	Union Baptist Church.

	D:	And is that where CORE would meet when you would organize CORE? Or did you have a different meeting when you all came?

	B:	We would meet at different churches. So sometimes at Bethel and sometimes at Union. I’m trying to think if there were ever any other churches, but I do remember those two.

	D:	And your meetings, was it mostly people from Dunnellon or was it a mix between people from Dunnellon and Ocala and Gainesville?

B:  Yeah. It was, you know, the crew from Gainesville and then some of the people from Ocala but mostly the people from Dunnellon. You know, when I look at the names on that list, they’re all—

M:   I’m sorry, who was the pastor at Bethel? I mean who was your support there?





	B:	Well, our support at Bethel was a little slow coming. He was one of those that— Reverend Townsend was on board immediately. Reverend Brooks was the pastor there and Reverend Brooks was a little reticent but I think that was just probably his nature, just to be cautious. But Reverend Townsend was definitely on board from the beginning.

	M:	Did Reverend Townsend preach much about civil rights or did he ever speak publicly about it? Or was he more just allocating the space for you guys?

	B:	I think it was mostly allocating and he talked about it in his church but he wasn’t like some sort of pastor. Ocala was the, you know, the shining star amongst— and things were going on in Ocala. Ocala was not going to call Reverend Townsend to save them.

	M:	Do you remember much about how Frank Pinkston spoke? We’ve heard a lot about his, I guess he was a very moving speaker.

	B:	He was a very charismatic speaker in the Black commission, alright. I would say he was more fiery than Martin Luther King was but I mean when Frank was preaching it was a big night. The people really wanted to hear him.

	M:	What was it? It was just his delivery or was it the word choice?



	B:	Well, as I’ve gotten older, I kind of see preaching as theatrics now. I realize that it’s like a beginning, middle, and end and how it goes. But he was a cut above, far above most of the others. I though his father was a good deliverer, he wasn’t as polished I think as Frank. Frank seemed to have a gift for oration. So combined with his gift and his training it made him an excellent speaker. And he was young and he had not long ago gotten married and I think he must have had





maybe had a kid or something and so he was somebody that who was near to our age that we could kind of relate to at that time, when father was older.

	M:	What do you remember about O. V. Pinkston, his father? Did you interact with him much?

	B:	Not personally.



	M:	Okay.



	B:	From the time when I was going to the Sunday school conventions he was like the moderator. I think he must have had that job for a very long time because this maybe about maybe fifteen years ago I saw him. I was at church, he would come to install the new pastor, and so he was there. He was a father, he was really a father figure and people went to him for advice and he mentored younger pastors, all of that. But he had a slower speech than Frank. His speech pace was much slower.

	M:	Not quite as fiery but do you remember what he would talk about? Would he talk about the same things as Frank, I mean?

	B:	I don’t remember him speaking any differently about the topic. It was all about— and at that time it was when the Birmingham was exploding and then TIME Magazine had the dogs and the hose, and we were seeing it on television and all of that. And so it was that time, so you had to watch.

	M:	Do you remember getting nervous about violence erupting?



	B:	I remember one time we were fighting, but that wasn’t in Dunnellon that was in Tallahassee. I got arrested at the theater in Tallahassee, and it was like hundreds of us. And they had put us in jail cells, and it was like too many of us





for them to hold in the jail cells. So we didn’t realize but they were finding a place to hold us and they took us out in the middle of night. It was like three o’clock in the morning and they weren’t telling us where they were taking us but they loaded us on trucks and then they had a work camp in Tallahassee and that’s where they took us. And so I think I must have stayed there for about forty-five days and they were holding us for trial and that was the one time that I remember.

	D:	Do you remember what it was that got you all arrested that moment, at that time?



What action y’all were committing?



	B:	Well it was that—what we would do is in Tallahassee, we’d march from campus.



And then we’d go, and then we would stand and create a line and buy tickets, and two-by-two, you would go there. And you can see how you could disrupt the rest of the customers, ‘cause nobody wanted us there, all right? So, two would go in there so we could buy two tickets, then another two would come in, and you just kind of circle around the line. And so eventually, they said we have to disperse; we did not disperse. But also I remember tear gas, and the tear gas came, I guess they decided rather than have us get into town to do the disruption, they would catch us before then, and they threw tear gas as we marched from Tallahassee to downtown. And I remember that.

	D:	So you weren’t even committing anything illegal, y’all were just there marching.



	B:	Unh-uh, unh-uh. They said, “Stop, you can’t come any further.” And we wouldn’t stop, and they would tear gas you.

	M:	What was the tear gas like? Did you get hit with it?





	B:	With the fumes, yeah. I mean it was burning. Your eyes were burning, you couldn’t see. There was a lot of scrambling. People helping people up. It was chaos and then it got in your clothes. It wasn’t a pleasant experience ‘cause you had it once, you didn’t wanna do it again. But I think the story is that Pat got in the eye with tear gas, and so her—[background noise]

	D:	What was that protest at the jail like for Zev? Do you remember how that was organized?

	B:	We had placards and you know, justice for Zev; you know, kind of marching. And they told us that we couldn’t congregate on the jail property, and so they came and arrested—. It wasn’t that [inaudible 41:31] at that time. But that was what we had learned that when Zev had been beaten, you know, protesting that.

	D:	Did you get a chance to talk with him afterwards? After he made it out? B:	Yeah.

	D:	You remember anything about that encounter?



	B:	I think he was bruised. He was just calm and stayed calm. He didn’t live at my house. We had gotten a room for him at some place, and so he used to come over there at that time and then we would work with us in the evenings. But he slept someplace else and he was on the picket line, picketing Ms. Mack’s Café, when the police came and arrested him. And I think his crime was that he was a White person interacting with these Black people and he was an out-of-towner, and I guess that really didn’t sit well.

	M:	Did any White people participate other than the few people from Gainesville you mentioned, there were several people. Were there any other?





	B:	No.



	M:	Okay. So that would have directed special attention at them.



	D:	So then when you went back to FAMU after the summer of [19]63, did you all continue to stay active in Tallahassee or did you go on to St. Augustine?

	B:	I didn’t go to St. Augustine. Things quieted down for me after that summer. We still did some things, did some picketing but my memory wasn’t much about that.

	M:	Can I ask what the Dunnellon mass meetings were like? B:	A smaller version of what the Union were.

	M:	Okay.



	B:	You know, it was kind of packed at our assembly.



	M:	Who would the speaker be? Would it be the local ministers there?



	B:	I don’t remember. I don’t remember, but I would imagine—I don’t know if would have been Frank or somebody else. Hope that’s my brother’s.

	M:	Okay.



	B:	Yeah.



	D:	Were your siblings active, as well?



	B:	My brother. I’m twelve years older than my brother and he was my greatest supporter. He would come by and he says, “I haven’t seen you helping Betty,” and, “You saying you work but you never show up at anything.” [Laughter] He’s the kind of fellow that one year we had gone on a little vacation. I couldn’t swim. I never learned to swim but the lifeguard was gonna teach me how to float and the lifeguard had his hands under my hip. “Take your hands off my sister.” So it was





that kind of thing. He watched people to see who was supporting us, who wasn’t supporting, but I think it was a great impression for him.

	D:	Did you all participate in boycotts as well? I know in Ocala they had some boycotts around Christmas I believe it was for some of the stores.

	B:	I didn’t.



	D:	Okay.



	B:	I didn’t do that.



	M:	Do you remember the hunting and fishing club up in Ocala? Did you ever interact with those guys?

	B:	Unh-uh.



	M:	Okay.



	B:	No. I know that Zev did some things. Not Zev, but Dan. It was some club that— M:	Oh, ‘cause in Ocala they did—

	B:	You had the party clubs, you remember. But they also had meetings in Gainesville because I remember one time I was a speaker in Gainesville. But those guys were a godsend. They weren’t afraid, they were gung-ho, they didn’t have to be coerced, they showed up that we’re soldiers here ready to fight.

	D:	Were there any other towns similar to Dunnellon around the area that had similar organizations doing work? Pretty much just Ocala and Dunnellon?

	B:	Mmhm. They were like Crystal River and Inverness.



	D:	Did y’all ever have plans to go out in some of those areas and do some work or was it mostly just focused in Dunnellon?





	B:	Well, for me, my focus was Dunnellon. I knew the community. Inverness I knew, you know, the school was there and that was basically what my connection with Inverness was. That go to school, and get on the bus to go to school, and get back and come. Or you would, if there’s a football game or a band or something, but it was all centered around the school. There wasn’t much else. Even for Inverness, it wasn’t like Ocala then, it was a big shopping district or you know, it wasn’t.

M:  Did you get much support from teachers in the area? Were there any of the high school teachers who had tried to include the discussions in the curriculum or got involved with protests or anything?

	B:	I don’t remember, because that was the summer. And so, school you know, it wasn’t school. But I do have the impression that people were careful and cautious about what the ramifications of their involvement were, so I would venture to say that the majority of the people who were involved were young people and some adults. Because the gentleman who became the chief of police was involved, was quite involved in it as well. But I don’t remember—I remember that there was a teacher, her husband was involved, Mr. Harry Leslie. But he was a business man, as well. So he supported us.

	M:	What form did the support take? Did he help out with the meetings?



	B:	I think that sometimes he helped make contributions to bail and it was always the money of bail trying to get people bailed out if you hadn’t been freed on your own recognizance. And then, usually what you had to do is you had to put the ten percent bail back, and that’s kinda how they got it. So they got the money.





	D:	What was the chief of police name? The one that would eventually become the chief of police, do you remember his name?

	B:	His name was J.W. Boston. D:	Okay.

	M:	Is he still alive by any chance? B:	No, he’s dead.

	M:	Okay.



	B:	And that’s what I mean by, you have to continue to fight because now I think there aren’t many people, you know, people involved in the city administration. Try to ask Maxine if she would talk to you. Maxine is the secretary of the church and Maxine was younger, but she has memories. I’ll see if there are other names that come to mind. They’re all just—

	D:	Phone, email?



	B:	I was gonna tell you, if—you have my email address, if you shoot me an email, then I’ll have your address and so as these things come to me I’ll respond to you.

	D:	Okay.



	B:	All right.



	D:	And Dan told me to ask about Daytona Beach. [Laughter] B:	[Laughter] Well.

	D:	He wouldn’t tell me what it was, he just said just ask her about the—



	B:	Dan has a better memory than I do, but Dan’s family was in Daytona Beach and we had gone there to the beach. You know, I guess, you just kinda sometimes forget that somebody’s White and the other person is Black and you’re not





supposed to mix but apparently there was some—and I’ll ask him to remind me again and I’ll tell you—but there was an altercation. There was a scene about us being at the beach and I think somebody had a public outburst about it, and had a lot to say about people mixing. So I’ll have to ask him to refresh my memory.

	D:	Yeah, he mentioned it was something about you and his sister integrating the beach.

	B:	Yeah, right, right. And I think he has some pictures, too, and I couldn’t make out much of it but there was a situation at Daytona Beach.

	M:	And so you’re saying it wasn’t a planned action, you just kinda go into it.



	B:	No. We were just, we’ve become friends and “Oh, let’s go to the beach.” I mean, we did it in Dunnellon, you know? Sometimes you would get together, talk about what you’re doing, and then it was also socially beneficial. Did things that you sometimes forgot that you shouldn’t be doing.

	M:	Did you have a follow-up question for that? That would kind of go in a different direction.

	D:	Okay, yeah you can go in a different direction.



	M:	Okay. So you had CORE in Dunnellon and the NAACP more in Ocala. Was there any significant difference in how you operated due to that, or would you say it was pretty much—?

	B:	I think that those of us in CORE saw ourselves as a bit more radical than the NAACP.

	M:	Okay.





	B:	Because and then the NAACP was, they already had a chapter and then with CORE’s reputation was a bit more, you know, out there. So, more confrontational, you know, in your face kind of thing than the NAACP. But we coexisted down there.

	M:	Okay. Were there any younger people who had trouble getting their parents to agree to let them work with you to join?

	B:	There was a law called Contributing to the Delinquency of a Minor that was held over. Saying with young people, you were contributing to a minor, and so people were careful about that.

	M:	I see. That makes sense. Did any members of the community overtly confront you about causing trouble or however they would’ve phrased it or was that more of a behind the scenes? ‘Cause you were saying that there were a lot of pastors that were kind of reluctant to support the movement. Was that an overt discussion or was that just kind of implied?

	B:	It was that they just didn’t participate and you would ask them for their support and they would kind of dance around it. I mean they wouldn’t say, “Oh no, we’re not gonna support you,” or, “You all shouldn’t be doing this,” but it was obviously a negative reception. And I think that in Tallahassee, people used to stand on their porches and say, “Go back to your own hometowns, why are you here creating trouble?” And this is, you know, “We live here, we have to make a living for ourselves.” “You’re here disrupting us. Go back to your own hometowns.”

	M:	They couldn’t tell you that in Dunnellon, I guess.





	B:	Well, I don’t think anybody overtly said that, but they kind of stood their distance. You know like at Ms. Mack’s Café, the people worked in the kitchen, they were kind of like around that kind of thing, but they weren’t gonna say anything to her, you know, against us. Or say anything to her in our favor or anything like that.

So, people were afraid.



	D:	How did your parents feel about your involvement? Both at FAM and—



	B:	My mother was concerned. And my mother was concerned that I was gonna get so wrapped up in this that I wasn’t gonna finish my education. And for her the most important thing from her standpoint was that I got educated and saw this as interfering with my—

	D:	Education?



	B:	My education, I think she thought I was gonna get so caught up in it that I wasn’t gonna finish so she wasn’t that pleased about it. I mean later on she did, you know, she worked for CORE with the chapter, but she was much happier about it when I was going back to school.

	D:	And did y’all ever host fundraisers or anything for CORE? B:	No, we just used their money.

	D:	Okay. [Laughter]



	B:	We didn’t do any fundraising. I don’t think there was ever anything like dues or anything. It was just that you put your efforts, your energy into the demonstrations and I don’t remember.

	M:	I think we might wanna stop before too long, it’s getting louder and louder. B:	Oh, okay.





	M:	Unless you’ve got more. But, is your family from Dunnellon? Where are your parents from? Do you know?

	B:	I was born in Quincy, as was mother and when we—when I was about seven years old, we moved to Dunnellon and the first elementary school that I went to, the principal wouldn’t let you bring books home. Students couldn’t bring books because the superintendent frowned upon destruction of books. And so that new school was a Christian Elementary School and I rode to school with principal and I had a teacher who was very good and she used to teach me how to sneak the books home. [Laughter] She would show me how to put the books in my skirt and then kind of hold them in the car and you know, so she taught me. And her name was Ms. Collins and she taught me how to do that, but that’s kind of the thing is that it wasn’t like insidious, you know; the system and the superintendent appointed the principal of these schools, and that principal kept a hard lock on the teachers there because they didn’t know them. And so that’s why. And the education, you know, I had told you about BTW was that the White kids got new books and the Black kids got the hand-me-down books. And the one thing that I learned from science, well that I remember, was how the sound, that light travels faster than sound, all right, was that the science teacher who was also the coach and the phys-ed teacher had the student take a bass drum and go far distance near the field. And we stood at a window, and he was to strike the bass drum and we had to observe whether we saw it first or heard it first. And that was the extent of my—

	D:	Science class.





	B:	Isn’t that a shame? When we talk about reparations, I say that there is a system of education that still has its side effects. Still affects us. Such a shame.

	D:	So then I had a question moving on a lot forward into the future. When you were in Washington, DC, [19]69, early [19]70s, was a critical period in Washington, DC, and I am sure there were things going on. Did you ever get involved in that sort of stuff? Or was it mostly—?

	B:	When I left FAMU, I went to New York, and I got a job at the World’s Fair. So I was a young college graduate who went World’s Fair. I had majored in food and nutrition. Then I got a job at Belleview Hospital as a dietician. And in those days, you could do a dietetic internship, but I hadn’t chosen to go that route, all right? So I went to New York, worked at the fair, and then I got a job working at Belleview. And then after I had been at Belleview for about four years, I decided that I could work in New York the rest of my life, but I couldn’t advance any place else, because I didn’t have the credentials that I needed. So I needed to have membership in the American Dietetic Association. So how I tried to do that in New York, you know, you had to write up your experiences and all of that and send it in. And they said, we reviewed your experience, but you need this and that. And I thought, I am not going to take this chance again. So I decided I would do a dietetic internship. So in 1969, I went to DC to the dietetic internship. So in [19]69, [19]69 probably to [19]72 I was in school. So I wasn’t doing anything. I do remember that I took a community nutrition class, and we had gone to a facility.

And I met my instructor named Walter Washington. So we got to meet Walter





Washington. He was the first mayor of DC. That was when DC was just doing the first governments. Do you remember that?

	D:	Yeah. Well I don’t remember personally but yeah, I have heard stories.



	B:	So that when Marion Barry died and all of the things that Marion Barry, his reputation with SNCC and how he was so vocal about having self-governance for DC, you remember this, don’t you? But I wasn’t part of it.

	D:	Was Dan in DC around that time? Dan Harmeling?



	B:	Dan was in DC, but I didn’t know it. And then it was later that we reconnected, and then he said he was in DC at the same time, but I didn’t know it.

	M:	It’s how things work. My questions get quite far away from that so— D:	Oh no. I mean we can come back to it.

	M:	I didn’t ask. Could we get your parents’ names? B:	Oh okay.

	M:	What their names were?



	B:	My mother is Annie Mae Mells. M:	Annie Mae—

	B:	A-N-N-I-E. M-E-L-L-S. And my dad was John Mells. M:	John Mells. And what is your mother’s maiden name? B:	Wright.

	M:	Okay.



	B:	I was a child out of wedlock. My mother was seventeen years old when she got pregnant with me. I’m her birthday present. I’m July 19, and she is July 21.

	M:	So that was up in Quincy?





	B:	That was in Quincy.



	M:	What was she doing at that time? Was she working? Or was she in school? B:	You mean when?

	M:	When you were born.



	B:	She was a high school dropout. Yeah. She worked in Quincy. In Quincy, tobacco was king once upon a time. My grandmother worked. I grew up with my grandmother and my mom. And my grandmother used to pick tobacco, and I used to go with her in the summer sometimes and string the slats, where you had a big needle and thread tobacco on it and put it up in the barn to dry. And then my mother worked in the cigar factory, where they rolled cigars. And that was what she did. Then we moved down here, and then in Dunnellon she got the job working at Rainbow Springs. And then she worked as a domestic for a number of years. Then she became a school bus driver, so she drove the school bus. And that is where she retired from.

	M:	And her domestic work, was that any particular family? Or did she kind of move to different ones?

	B:	I only remember her working for one family. It was the postmaster’s, young postmaster’s daughter. And she had a kid. My mom took care of the kid, and then when my mom got pregnant with my brother, she left the job market. Then after that, she worked at a crab factory in Crystal River. Then from there, she started driving a school bus. I call that her calling.

	M:	She liked doing that?





	B:	Yeah, she liked it very much. She was always very precise in everything. People talk about her. She is a pretty tough taskmaster. A school bus fitted her personality well.

	M:	Sounds that way. So you father, what did he do back up in Quincy? Did he also work on a railroad? Or was that a different—?

	B:	This is my stepdad.



	M:	Oh. Okay, sorry. Okay.



	B:	He works on the railroad, but my biological father was a schoolteacher. He was a rat.

	D:	This wasn’t the same school that your mother had attended. B:	Yup.

	D:	Okay. Got you. [Laughter]



	B:	Yeah. Oh. These things happen.



	M:	These things happen. But you don’t remember, or I guess you remember the tobacco in Quincy. Do you remember Quincy very much? Or is it mostly Dunnellon that you remember?

	B:	It’s mostly Dunnellon, but I used to go visit my grandmother. My grandmother was very special to me. So even when I was in college in Tallahassee, I used to go over and visit with my grandmother. Actually not long ago, I had a call from somebody who was one of my playmates from Quincy. So I still have connections to Quincy. I can go to Quincy and find my way around pretty good.

	M:	What was your grandmother’s name? B:	Janie.





	M:	Janie.



	B:	Janie Williams. J-A-N-I-E. M:	Williams?

	B:	Uh-huh. Williams. She lived on some Cleveland Street. I forget the address. M:	We’ll be doing more Quincy interviews.

	D:	With John Due, lives up there. From Quincy originally.



	B:	Is he back in Quincy? Or is he still in Atlanta with his daughters coming back and forth?

	D:	He is back and forth. Yeah, he’s going back and forth now. M:	He has got a place in Quincy.

	D:	We talked to him last week. He was in Texas, but he’s going back to Quincy.



He’s all over the map.



	B:	Yeah. Yeah. Well, we were all worried about John if Pat died. Because Pat had always been the driving force in that family.

	D:	Yeah. Yeah.



	B:	But I think that with the girls.



	D:	Yeah, we went to his birthday party they had for him. B:	Oh, in Atlanta or in Quincy?

	D:	It was actually Tallahassee. At the Sheraton.



	B:	Oh wow. They have a beautiful place in Tallahassee. Real easy, very nice space.



I worked for Pat, received the honorary doctorate from FAMU for that. And then at the Evening with the Dues, I happened to have been in town at the time. So I was able to go to that. And that was the night she announced that she had





thyroid cancer. And you kind of think in this day and age thyroid cancer is treatable, and it is not deadliest of cancers. So that the next time I saw her was when she was in the long-term care facility when we knew she didn’t have long to last. So my friend Rose and I, who is on the cover of the book, Rose Dewey, we spent some time with her in her last years here. But she is my inspiration.

	D:	I was wondering, and there might not be anything to this, but at FAM was there sort of connection between people from Northern Florida? Or were there regional differences in terms of the people that were at FAMU? Because it seemed like, I know John Due was from Quincy. I believe Pat Stephens Due, she was also from North Florida or North Central Florida.

	B:	Actually kind of Central Florida, because they were in Belle Glade. I think she had grown up or spent some time, from Quincy went to Belle Glade, I think. I think the mother moved to Miami, and then they moved to Miami. And then Pat was at FAMU, went to school there. I think so. There were regional, especially it seems to me the people from Miami, from the cities, they always think they are God’s gift. You know that. People formed bonds. Right now I have a friend that lives in Maryland, and we’ve been friends since college. She was from Savannah. So you found your—oftentimes it had a lot to do with what you majored in. Who became your family, your acclimated family. In the dorms it may have been more regional. But your lasting relationships, you had classes together, what classes you had together, the more you bonded.

	D:	Were there any professors or classes that you remember being really instrumental in the way that your thought processed or your activism?





	B:	I had one college professor. She was very supportive, but she wasn’t out there in the demonstrations herself. She wasn’t doing that. But she just took a lot of interest in her students. Was always concerned about how things were going all around. Your academics, your personal. She was efficient. She is a FAMU graduate herself, but she grew up in Boston. And she had come to FAMU.

	D:	Do you remember her name by any chance? B:	Cara Mae Marquess.

	D:	Cara Mae.



	B:	Cara Mae Marquess. M-A-R-Q-U-E-S-S. She is still living. She must be about ninety-five now. I saw her a few years ago, and she is still going strong.

	M:	Okay. Is she living in Tallahassee?



	B:	She lives in Tallahassee. She lives at 111 Millard Street in Tallahassee.



	M:	So easy. [Laughter] Oh, we’ll be doing interviews there, too, so I don’t know. B:	There was a gentleman, and I have no idea—you know, once upon a time,

FAMU had a law school. And they lost the law school. Did you know about that?



	D:	Yeah they had a doctoral program.



	B:	And that was a law professor, and I don’t remember his name. But he always— you know, in the library, or meeting somebody—he would talk to students. And he was, you know. I think that Dr. Gore, I can’t remember who the president was. A little hesitant about all the trouble that the students at FAMU were getting into. Because it was that same kind of slave master mentality that was evident in the public schools. That you don’t want to rub the superintendent the wrong way.

And so that the college presidents didn’t want to have their students misbehaving





in the street, and have anyone in government call them up and say, “Do you know what’s going on with the students? Why can’t we get these students under control?”

	M:	It would have been an unenviable position to be the president of FAMU at that time.

	B:	Yes. Very worried. Probably had a lot of sleepless nights.



	M:	That’s a lot of pressure from a lot of directions. And if you’re in the same city as the legislature of the state at that time, you don’t even have—it’s got to be something. I think we covered most of the questions I would ask today. I mean, other than, I could easily do a whole separate interview on more about Dunnellon and things like that. But I don’t think we have time for that this particular evening.

	B:	Well, it’s too bad we’re doing it here, because I could show you, you know, you could see some of the things. But, Dunnellon is for the African American community, it’s a stagnant place. There’s a woman who’s just opened up a little eatery on the corner, not far from where we live. But there aren’t many—now there aren’t the kind of businesses that were there before. Little, small businesses. It’s just—needs some good leadership. Yeah. But we’re coming out of a bad economy anyways. But now is a good time, you know, to start thinking about getting on the bandwagon. Because now, opportunities are beginning to flourish again. So. But we will see. Hobart, they don’t have jobs there anymore. There was, though, at my mom’s bank, there was an African American woman who was the bank manager. That was real, you know, that was, real proud to see.





	M:	Around what time was that?



	B:	I’m going to say, that was just three years ago. That was, like, maybe three years ago. I think she’s where Dawn is now. That’s a Hispanic woman, in that position, that job. But that was probably the ice-breaker African American position. Not much. Speak on the retirement community, and what happens when people are “come-hithers;” they don’t want to invest in the community, they want to just come and live off of what they’ve earned, and you know, and make ends meet.

So they don’t invest in the community. I mean, some of them do, but not all of them. Not in any great numbers.

	M:	And Rainbow Springs isn’t the same kind of thing it used to be, is it? B:	No. I think it’s like the kind of retirement homes, and.

	D:	Was that open to Blacks and Whites, or was it segregated as well? Rainbow Springs, back then?

	B:	Oh, back in the day, yeah. It was segregated. Black people worked there, but they didn’t, no.

	D:	Do you remember where Blacks went when they went on vacation? Was it, were there some parts of Ocala they could go, some Silver Springs spots?

	B:	They used to go, it was called Paradise Park? You look, no, you don’t know that. But in Ocala it was Silver Springs, name of the park, but there was a section for Blacks called Paradise Park. And they used to have, like, beauty contests, and people used to go and have picnics, and it was a fun place to go. I do remember that. Before your time. [Laughter] That’s tinkering my memory. Yeah. It was a big thing in the summertime, you know. Running in bathing suits, like the Miss





America pageant, almost. And somebody in Ocala may have spoken about the Cunningham brothers?

	D:	I haven’t heard about them.



	M:	I’m vaguely familiar with the name.



	B:	Yeah, they were very supportive of the movement, they were quite involved.



They were undertakers. So they were kind of in a business that didn’t depend on White people. So therefore, they could be out front, being supportive. Someone else always introduces now, but James Cunningham, and I forget the other brother’s name. I remember them. Actually, they used to have their funeral home right next door to Covenant. Or near it, but someplace nearby.

M:  Yeah, it’s hard for us because we’ve been to Covenant, but of course, it used to be this little wooden church, it used to be all woods, and a lot of Ocala seems to be town now that it used to be all—

B:   Yeah. It’s different. It’s different from now.



	M:	How many of the roads were paved in Dunnellon in the period we’re talking about? Like, in [19]63, was it mostly paved, or were there still a lot of dirt roads?

	B:	I don’t think there’s been—you know, like there’s been reconfiguration of downtown Dunnellon. They’ve kind of cut out some things down there where the Walmart is now. That used to be just bush. And then, across the street from where the Walmart was used to be where the Black high school was. And so, once things got integrated, and the focus shifted, and the Black schools were either made middle schools and lost their names and same thing was at Inverness. My high school was BTW. So now it’s Inverness Middle School. And





then, in Dunnellon, it used to be, the original name was Homog. And then it was changed to Booker T. Washington. And then, once the schools became integrated, then that high school was—they may have made it into a middle school—but eventually the whole thing was demolished. And there’s not a plaque or anything that says, “On this ground was.” They going to build a Boys & Girls Club on part of it, or they may have built it. But, it was a big part of—but they do have a reunion, now. They started the reunion. Nanasind, that’s one. Hope to ask Maxine about that, because maybe Maxine might call you and talk to you.

	D:	Okay. Yeah.



	M:	Yeah. Because that was one thing that was, we hear especially in Gainesville about Lincoln High. I don’t know if you’re familiar. But it seemed that a lot of these Black high schools, they were underfunded, they didn’t have the supplies, the teachers were overworked—I mean, you could go down the list—but a lot of them also were real centers of the community. They were places where people would come together, where the teachers had a special kind of role. So it seems as if there’s a lot of effort to preserve that and carry that on. Do you see the same thing in Dunnellon, or in Inverness?

	B:	Now, for Inverness—because I graduated from that school—they used to have a BTW reunion. It was like every five years, people would come together, have a picnic. It would be like reunion weekend. And then, now, I think Dunnellon started doing the same thing. But they seem to have been a bit more successful, because they have theirs every year, and it’s grown. It seems to be growing. So I’ll also ask my brother, if he—because he knows a little more about that. And in





Dunnellon, they do the Martin Luther King march. And that seems to be where two communities come together somewhat. So they have a little parade, and they go to the park, and make speeches, and, you know.

	M:	Do they march right through the downtown?



	B:	They march, usually, I think last time, from the church, from Bethel Church, down to the, they have a park that’s named for—Dunnellon had a native on the Pittsburgh Steelers super bowl team—And they named the park Ernie Mills Park. Ernie Mills, played for the Pittsburgh Steelers. And so, Maxine is his mother. And so, they named a park in his honor. And so, they march up from sometimes from the Walmart, I think, one year, and then, down by the church, and down to the Ernie Mills Park. And they got schoolchildren to come out with songs, and there’s an older gentleman who has a poem or something he does, and it’s just kind of, kind of makes a program, you know? So that’s kind of one thing that they’ve been going to. And they do that.

	D:	Do they have—I know we found out they have Ocala reunions in South Florida, because so many people from Ocala have moved down to South Florida. Do you know if they have anything similar for Dunnellon?

	B:	People move away, but I don’t know if that was out of that mass of people in Dunnellon that would move. Although, my husband and I were in Alaska. We ran into a couple. They were Black and White, in Anchorage, Alaska, so people do run into each other. But I don’t know that there’s a—because even in Dunnellon, it’s still such a very small town, because during the time that we were talking





about, it was like, at most, twenty-five hundred people in Dunnellon. And I’m not sure what percentage of that number would be African American.

	M:	Well, we can check the census on that, I guess. Okay.



	B:	I would guess. For long time, stayed around two thousand, two thousand five hundred. And when you see the boomtown Dunnellon, you wonder. There used to be one traffic light in Dunnellon. And I think there are now maybe four. Maybe less. I think it’s just three. One on Main Street.

	M:	That first traffic light, was it actually a stop-and-go, or was it the blinking you just have to slow down, but the yield light?

	B:	I think originally, it may have been a flashing light. Because where they built in that area, there used to be a big hotel there. And they tore that hotel down and just kind of made gas stations and other kinds of things. So, now it is more than a flashing light. I think it may have been, I’m not sure, don’t quote me on that. Oh, God. [Laughter]

	M:	I guess this is a good time to close. Do you have any final thoughts you wanted to share?

	B:	Well, I guess that my final thoughts would be that I think one of the sad things about segregation was that the resources were so different that were invested in our community, but I think it’s wonderful that we’ve been a strong community, and we’ve been able to fight back. And we’ve been able to come back and still maintain a sense of dignity, and our people go on. And no matter what you did to us, or try to make us feel about ourselves, that we have overcome. You know, to some extent. It’s still, still many challenges ahead, and I think that’s an important





thing to remember, is that the challenges don’t go away. That they’re always going to be with you, and you’re going to always have to be ready to fight the battle.

	M:	Well, thank you very much. B:	Thank you.

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Amelia D’Costa



Derick Gomez



Ryan Morini, May 4, 2015



	Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, March 13, 2018 Final edited by:	Ryan Morini, February 22, 2019