AAHP 608A; Sims; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 608A Levon and Nancy Simms African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Julian Valdivia on June 14, 2018 1 hour, 29 minutes | 36 pages





Abstract: In this interview, Levon and Nancy Simms recount their experiences as Black students in the city of Fort Myers before and after desegregation. Nancy, the daughter of a high school English teacher, recounts moving from Miami to Fort Myers because of her parents’ divorce, and the stark differences between services and opportunities available to Black people in both cities. She recalls Miami having separate movie theaters and decent beaches for Black folks, while Fort Myers had almost none. Levon reminisces about working on Zipperer Farms with both his parents and the differences in wages for Black folks. He later became a teacher after attending FAMU, and recounts a student walk out organized at North Fort Myers High School that extended to other high schools within the area. The walk out received attention from local police departments, with some high schools experiencing a heavy police presence that also included canines. They later suggest other people to interview who were at the high school where the canine unit was present.



Key words: [African American Studies, education, segregation, integration, riot, Fort Myers, Florida history]

























For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 608A

Interviewee: Levon Simms, Nancy Kelley Simms Interviewer: Julian Valdivia

Date: June 14, 2018



	V:	This is Julian Valdivia from the Sam Proctor Oral History Program at the Lee County Black History Society in Roberto Clemente Park. Today I’m sitting with?

	LS:	Levon Simms.



	NS:	Nancy Kelley Simms



	V:	We’re here today to talk about their lives growing up and tell us more of their history. So, if I could start, where were you both born?

	LS:	I was born in Bradenton in 1946.



	NS:	Nancy was born in Miami and moved to Fort Myers in 1947. Moved to Fort Myers around the age of five.

	V:	You said it was 1947 when you moved here?



	NS:	No, I was born in 1947, then moved here around five, after my parents divorced. V:	And when did you move here?

	LS:	I was about four or five. V:	Okay. Just young?

	LS:	It had to be four or five because I went to kindergarten here. V:	Which kindergarten did you go to?

	LS:	At that time, there was this lady on Lincoln Boulevard. Her name was Fannie White. She had a private kindergarten.

	NS:	We both attended Ms. Fannie White’s kindergarten. V:	Is that where you both met?

	NS:	No.





	LS:	No, I didn’t meet her there.



	V:	I was going to say that would be the love story of the ages! [Laughter]. NS:	No, not quite.

	V:	So, Ms. White’s elementary school? LS:	It was just kindergarten.

	NS:	I think she did daycare.



	LS:	No, she just did kindergarten. You had to be five years old to attend her school which was a one room, fireplace type situation with ducks in the backyard.

	NS:	She turned her living room into the classroom.



	V:	What kind of ducks did she have in the backyard? LS:	They were ugly ducks.

	NS:	Mallards?



	V:	The Muscovy?



	LS:	The Muscovy. They had their thing and we had ours. We had a one swing gym set and you had to wait your turn.

	NS:	[Laughter]



	V:	You had to wait for the other kids or the ducks? [Laughter]



	LS:	Well the ducks stayed in a pen until she just opened it and let them out. You don’t remember the ducks?

	NS:	I was just about to say, I don’t remember the ducks.



	V:	Nancy, you said you moved here to Fort Myers after your parents had divorced.



Why Fort Myers?





	NS:	My biological father, his father was here and was already working in Fort Myers. My parents initially had moved here together and then my biological dad ended up moving back to Miami, and then my mother stayed in his father’s [Laughter] family home with my sister and I.

	V:	When you initially moved, what were the differences you could tell when you were younger between Fort Myers and Miami? What do you remember being different about the two cities?

	NS:	Now back then, nothing, of course, because I was too young. As I grew older with my parents divorced, every summer we would go to Miami and my dad did not have a home of his own. He lived in a rooming house so we stayed with my grandparents who lived in Hialeah. Of course, one of the major differences by the time we got to elementary school, Miami was the big city compared to things that we had going over here. My dad worked on the Florida East Coast Railroad and in the summer, we would take trips on the train. Even though we had a movie theater here, I don’t really remember going to it until I was in high school. When I say a movie theater, a Black theater, where there’s not MLK for us to go to.

Whereas down in Miami, they had their own theater that we could attend. What other differences? Their beach was nicer [Laughter].

	V:	I heard that. I was talking with George[Inaudible]and he was telling me because I had asked him about Bunche Beach. He said Bunch Beach was kind of taken; they just took a random slice of land that wasn’t that nice and gave it to the community as a beach.

	NS:	[Laughter].





	LS:	You’re right about that. My take on Bunche Beach is pretty much the same thing.



You could see Fort Myers Beach all to the left. I can remember a point where Fort Myers Beach stopped, and you can imagine like an enclave type situation, and then there was Bunche Beach. Then if you took a far right, way beyond, you could see Sanibel Lighthouse. It was kind of desolate type of situation. There was not that much to it. Eventually they put a building there but this is as I remember it.

	NS:	And by comparison, in Dade County, the Blacks went to Virginia Key. That’s the name of their beach. They had nice, pretty white sand. They actually had a park there. They had a carousel, concessions stand, and all this good stuff that Bunch Beach never did get [Laughter].

	LS:	It was a house that sold, kind of like a restaurant type thing. I picture it was a privately owned type situation but the average person went to Bunche Beach and got their car stuck in the sand. My dad and I would go to Bunche Beach and off to the right there was a little road on the edge of the water, maybe ten yards from the edge of the water. They called it Black Run, and we would go fishing. Like I said, it was an inlet. I can remember vividly because the mosquitos was

horrible.



	NS:	[Laughter]



	LS:	We’d go back there and my dad and I would fish. V:	Do you guys also fish in the Caloosahatchee?





	LS:	My dad worked on a farm and he would come home sometime in the afternoon and we would go down to Edison Bridge, at that time. We’d fish off the bridge. My mom would go a lot of times. Are you familiar with Palm Avenue?

	V:	Mmhm.



	LS:	Palm Avenue would eventually go all the way to the river, and there was a little area like a seawall. I can remember her and a friend would walk down there and they would fish. I can never remember catching anything there.

	NS:	Ever! [Laughter]



	LS:	You know how people go, “Oh I seen the fish?” I don’t remember none of that.



	NS:	For me, my early childhood was quite different. Like he told you, his parents worked on the farm. My mother eventually remarried and both my mother and my stepfather were school teachers.

	LS:	I was a poor guy. She was richer.



	NS:	[Laughter] Yes, I grew up with a middle class background. When you talk about the differences between Fort Myers and Miami, of course I wasn’t accustomed to having Black doctors, dentists, or any of that good stuff over here. But when I go down to Miami, we did have.

	V:	I know there were a couple who had practices. They didn’t work over at Jones- Walker.

	LS:	No way!



	NS:	There had been some Black doctors here in Lee County over a period of time but there has never consistently until the [19]70s when any Black physicians were here.





	LS:	There was Moorhead.



	NS:	Yeah, but how long did he stay? You had Velasco first. LS:	I don’t really recall.

		NS:	I don’t think he lasted very long. LS:	That was before my time, I’m sure. NS:		Who? Moorhead?

	LS:	Velasco. Velasco is the one we heard about. Mrs. Velasco was still alive.



	NS:	Dr. Velasco— and since Betty mentioned Safety Hill, at the time he was here in Fort Myers, he and his wife actually lived off on McGregor Boulevard.

	LS:	He lived on Cleveland Avenue right where Royal Castle was.



	NS:	Right, sorry. I said McGregor but Cleveland Avenue. This was before we got relegated across the railroad track.

	LS:	There was Pine Tucket. This at one time would’ve been the highest area. That’s why he came to this about Safety Hill. People tell all kinds of lies, all kinds of fables, and how if you got across the railroad tracks you were saved. I’ve heard it all. To verify that it was word of mouth and I’m not exactly sure. Mrs. Velasco was my godmother. Mrs. Velasco gave me a brand new dollar bill for Christmas. She would get the dollar bill from the bank and it had the envelope with the little thing cut it out so you could see the face. My Mom would, “You know you go to Leela and get your Christmas gift”. Man, a dollar! Come on. She would not let us in the house. I always thought it was sort of an insult but it is what it is. She didn’t have to do that.

	NS:	It’s true!





	V:	I’m assuming since she was your godmother, she knew your parents well?



	LS:	Yes, I think through our church. Mt. Olive A.M.E. Church. We got some kind of relationship through the church, I’m not sure how that happened. It was not like I was Christian and, “Visit your godparents.” Nah, I can never recall that.

	V:	You mentioned your parents working on a farm. Do you remember what farm they worked at?

	LS:	Zipperer farms. Z-I-P-P-E-R-E-R. V:	Can you --?

	NS:	Slow it down [Laughter].



	V:	Well it really doesn’t matter for me. It just matters for whoever is gonna transcribe this, so they heard it. Was that one of the vegetable farms in the area?

	LS:	No. My dad came to Fort Myers with John O. Zipperer from the Avon Park area. They came here to farm gladiolus, flowers. They came here because supposedly this is a good area to farm with gladiolus. So, he came here with him and they had a lot of farm area down Highway 82, which is the extension of MLK and they were going off to the beach. Winkler cut off on McGregor Boulevard. They owned property out there. Eventually, John O. Zipperer, Jr. built a big nice house out there and used to raise chinchillas.

	V:	He raised chinchillas?



		LS:	[Laughter] Yes, he raised chinchillas. NS:		What are chinchillas?





	LS:	Little animals that make coats and they use their fur. You’re not gonna go down to the street and pick up a chinchilla. They raised chinchillas! That’s what he did at his house, but they had all this farm area. I started working on the farm when I was twelve years old and it was not like I was doing it everyday, I just did on weekends to make extra money wherever. My mom made five dollars a day working on the farm. I think my dad made seven dollars a day. But, there was no “In hours.” You worked certain hours -- no. You worked by the day and you got paid that way. My dad, who I guess you’d call him a foreman, he did a lot of the training out there. Like if you’d come in, you’re a White guy, we’re gonna make you a boss. So you’d come in and my dad would train you and you would be a boss. But my dad never was a boss. He was never a guy who said “Okay, I’m telling you what you got, take your work” and tell what you do. However, he drove what they call a labor truck. This was the truck that they met on the corner, transferred, and[Inaudible]which is now MLK. You load the people up on the truck and then you take them to the farm. They’d work and then in the evening, he’d bring them back home. He drove the truck and kept the truck next to our house. It’s crazy, my mom worked on the farm too but she walked from my house to the area where the truck was because she’d say, “We got to get there early.” When we worked there, she would walk.

	V:	What did your mom do on the farm?



	LS:	She cut flowers. At the base of gladiolus, there’s a bulb and they basically recycle these things. The flower comes up out of this bulb, another bulb forms under that, so the flower is cut. Now you got two bulbs: the old one and the new





one. So the old one kind of shrinks up and dies, so you take a funny looking little knife and you separate the two. Then the new bulb will be planted for the new season and the old one is discarded. During the flower season, she cut flowers, from the fall to end of spring. Then, in summer, they would clean bulbs and basically redo them. There was this machine that actually planted the bulbs. You sow them on the row and then people would come and set them up, and she did that also. The thing would come back and basically throw the dirt back on them and that was the way the flowers grew. Why gladiolus stopped growing? I’m not exactly sure. They just don’t do that anymore here.

	V:	I’ve always wondered what happened to the flower industry here because I’ve read about it before. I grew up in Cape Coral and that’s the first issue, but second of all, I had never seen any flower operations around here.

	LS:	Yeah, I grew up pretty much on the farm. I graduated high school, went to college, and I would come in on Christmas and work on the farm. Some summers I’d work for[Inaudible]wasn’t a whole lot of work for what I was doing. They had these bulb boxes, that once they distributed the bulbs, they’d toss them aside and someone has to come along and pick up those boxes, stack them up, and take them up to this big shed thing and put them under there. When I’d come home in the summer, they would give me this job to drive this tractor and this little ugly trailer behind it, so you’d put the tractor in first gear and put it in the row. The tractor chills along by itself. You would walk four rows over, pick up these boxes, and put them on the back of the trailer. When you get to the end of the row, you stop the tractor and you stack them on a neat little. Then once you get





that all done, you take them to this big shed thing. Someone else offloads them. We’re talking about ten high, and I ain’t no big guy so I wasn’t doing that. I’d be there all day long, and half the time I’d be sleeping under the trailer because it was so hot out there. The guy who was basically over this operation, he just gave me these kinds of jobs because I was getting myself back in school. They would give me little [Inaudible 23:07] work to do.

	V:	That’s actually really cool because I hadn’t met anyone who’s done a lot in agriculture yet.

	LS:	I don’t see myself doing a lot. Our family just worked on a farm.



	V:	I guess I should say I haven’t talked with anyone who came from a farming family.

	NS:	Mr. Mayo —? I thought George said he worked on a farm? V:	Mr. Mayo did as a side job when he was young.

	LS:	There on Monroe and MLK, where the cleaners are. You know where the cleaners at?

	V:	Okay, yeah.



	LS:	Behind that cleaners, was a big packing house and that was Zipperer Farms’ packing house. The way the thing was, the flowers were cut in the morning. They were Mr. Joe Edmunds…They would load the flowers on the back of his truck, he would drive into Fort Myers to this packing house. They would load, take these things up and put them onto conveyer belts. They would then put them in these big tall boxes,[Inaudible]refrigerator but narrow and then ship them off. Only White people worked in that packing house.





	V:	Why was that? Was it just because it was downtown? NS:	Probably.

	LS:	Sign of the times. I can remember being like Mr. Joe Edmunds drove this truck, just looked beyond a pick up truck, and it had the body on the back where you would load these flowers on the back of it. Then he would drive them into town. These flowers were in a bundle which you tied. Which bank we go to, and they got pictures up on the wall?

	NS:	Wells Fargo?



LS:  Wells Fargo. There’s a distinct picture on the wall at Wells Fargo of these people loading these flowers at the field at the back of his truck. You might go down and take a look at that. They must’ve took a real picture. They would take

these pictures to the packing house as they called it, and they would be shipped out. Lots of times, on the trucks, there a train. There’s a train and railroad back up in that area. The railroad’s gone now but that’s right up the downtown area. Matter of fact, it’s right beyond what’s now the Fort Myers Museum.

	V:	Yeah, the one that’s being renovated with a new company going in there.



	LS:	Yeah, it’s Matt’s operation. Did you see the thing that has a rail cart on the side of it? That was really a railroad. Railroads come out and then cross MLK.

	V:	I was disappointed when I came because when I got to Fort Myers a month ago, I had heard about where the museum was and that they still had the White and colored signs on the railroad station.

	LS:	You was disappointed in that? V:	Well, no.





	LS:	[Laughter] NS:	[Laughter]

	V:	No, no [Laughter]. I wanted to see the signs for myself. LS:	So, they didn’t have that at the time?

	V:	No, it was under construction so they’ve got the whole thing closed off.



	NS:	If you want to see one, and I haven’t been up there in several years, but in Punta Gorda at their old railroad station, which is now part of a museum, they still had their sign up.

	V:	And where was that?



	NS:	In Punta Gorda, right twenty three miles up the road. I can’t tell you any streets or anything because I don’t know. I can just about go there. I’m assuming it’s probably called Punta Gorda History Museum or Charlotte County History Museum, or something like that. It’s at the old railroad station.

	LS:	They still have this. I thought I had a picture. We took a picture of this. I had it. V:	Oh, you had a picture on your phone?

	LS:	I thought I had it. I probably eliminated it. I can’t find it.



	V:	Moving on, I wanted to ask about your parents, Nancy. You said both were preschool teachers.

	NS:	Not elementary school teachers, they were high school. My mom and my step dad. My mom taught English at Dunbar, both the old Dunbar on High Street and new Dunbar.

	LS:	Oh, bingo! [Shuffling]





	NS:	And then my stepfather was a science teacher.



	LS:	That was the cart section, see “Colored” on the door? V:	Oh, wow. And they turned this into a museum?

	LS:	Yes, that’s their museum of up in Punta Gorda. If you scroll, I think there’s the other side of something like that.

	V:	Were the entrances — did you have to go into buildings through the back? Was that it?

	LS:	I don’t exactly remember how the entrance way because being honest with you, when —

	NS:	Wasn’t there just a wall between them?



	LS:	I don’t remember because I never caught a train in Punta Gorda. Matter of fact, even here, when you caught a train, you didn’t really go into the station. You kind of stayed outside on the platform area. Now reason I know this is because my uncle worked as a porter on a train. He worked for Atlantic Coastline. Lot of time I rode for free. It’s just one of those things we did at the right time I guess. I was young so the idea of just sitting in a waiting room, that wasn’t exciting, so you stayed outside and looked down the railroad track, seeing if the train was coming. That right there was the Punta Gorda. This out here was pretty much somewhat like that too.

	V:	Too warm in here or too cold? NS:	It’s getting cold to me.

	V:	That’s fine.



	LS:	I feel good.





	NS:	I’m gonna turn it up a little bit so we can warm up. Did you want this right here?



	V:	Oh no, I got a cola. We were talking about your parents. You said they taught at the old Dunbar and the new Dunbar, and you said your mother was an English teacher.

	NS:	My mom graduated from high school in 1942 in Arcadia and then went to, back then, FAMC - Florida Agricultural and Mechanical College at the time, and finished there in [19]46. Went back to Miami because when she finished school is when my parents got married and she spent a couple of years down in Dade County but wasn’t able to get a full time job. That was another reason they ended up moving over here. She was offered the position over here in Fort Myers. But at the time, my biological dad was running a pool hall down in Miami. Like I said, they eventually got a divorce and my mom remarried in [19]53. My stepfather also finished at FAMU, back then FAMC. My mom in doing English was also in speech, drama, and that sort of thing. A lot of people around here will still tell you stories about her because she was one of these hardcore folk that stayed on you. Even you said you grew up in Cape Coral, so I don’t know if you remember a Veronica Shoemaker.

	V:	I know of a Veronica Shoemaker.



	NS:	She was a council person for many years here. She was one of my mom’s students and she used to tell me all the time about how my mom was the one that taught her to speak like she did.

	V:	That’s funny. What did your stepfather teach? NS:	Science.





	V:	When you were going to high school, were they teaching?



	NS:	[Laughter] Yes! And I ended up, eventually, with both of them at one time or another! My mom was just as hard on me as she was anybody else. I tell the story all the time about how when I was in eleventh grade, we were in class and my mom asked a question and to this day I don’t remember what the question but she went all around the room asking everybody this question. Nobody knew the answer. I had a former boyfriend who was in the class and when he didn’t answer, she said in front of everybody, “I’m glad my daughter’s not dating you because I couldn’t stand having a dumb daughter and a dumb son-in-law, too.”

	V:	[Laughter] Lord.



	NS:	[Laughter] How would you like to experience that? I was going to say maybe he wasn’t [Inaudible]

	V:	Because you guys were born in the late [19]40s, then you were in high school mid [19]60s?

	NS:	Yeah, he finished in [19]64. I finished in [19]65.



	V:	So you were there before they tore down and closed the building. NS:	We both graduated from Dunbar on Edison Avenue.

	V:	By that time they were starting to talk about integration and things like that — LS:	They would talk about it but it was not here. Just talking about it.

	NS:	Think about it. In [19]64, you’re talking about ten years after Brown versus the Board of Education and around here that was still something way in the back of the government officials around here. If they weren't forced to do it, they never would have. It just so happens that it was a classmate of mine whose name was





the first one of the list of that class action suit against the school board.[Inaudible 37:50] works as the Lee County Board of Public Education. Of course she didn’t reap the benefits of getting to go to the White school but that set the whole thing in motion for Lee County to desegregate.

	V:	One of the books you had, was it a yearbook? Was that it? NS:	Mmhm!

	V:	Was there anything you ought to show us in it?



	NS:	I didn’t bring our yearbook because I know Betty has the one over here from [19]64. The one that I brought was actually [19]69 which was the last class from old Dunbar that Levon happened to first come back and started teaching at Dunbar.

	V:	So you were a teacher?



	LS:	Yes, I’m what you call one of the transitional teachers. I taught in the Black school.

	NS:	See, this is my stepfather.



	V:	Oh, he was the assistant principal by that time. Eugene G. Jones. Actually on that point, what was your mother’s maiden name?

	NS:	Williams. It was Jimmy, J-I-M-M-Y, middle name Lee because she was the oldest of my grandmother’s five children and my grandfather wanted a boy so she got saddled with that name.

	LS:	Look at Mr. Mayo.



	V:	Oh, wow! Mr. Mayo! Look at him! [Laughter] LS:	I wasn’t in there, no?





	NS:	No, you weren’t there with the teachers. V:	Oh, there he is. Levon Simms, Art.

	NS:	He didn’t take the picture but I’ll show you his picture for the back. Art Club or something like that.

	LS:	Art Guild, I think.



	V:	There it is! Art Guild. I’m assuming you were the one in the suit right here. LS:	Yeah, that’s me. I was kind of skinny.

	V:	First of all, with the hat, I’m assuming you went to the FAMU. NS:	Yes.

	V:	Did you go for education?



	LS:	Well, that’s a whole different story. NS:	[Laughter]

	LS:	I went to FAMU actually to make music and basically music was going to be my major, art was going to be a minor. I don’t know if you’re familiar with FAMU’s band?

	V:	It was the Hundred—? NS:	Yeah, Marching Hundred.

	LS:	I left here to go march in that band and when I got there, you assume in your head you major in music, you march in the band, whatever you should do. But music was one thing Florida A&M, and music is another. After football season is over, then marching is over. Then you have to [Inaudible ]again. Concert. So the whole thing was I was off to FAMU only it was financed for one semester and that one semester was while I was in the band. Then, I come back in January for





the second semester and I don’t have no scholarship, no money, I don’t have anything. I was like an alien or something back then, trying to figure out, “Well, wait a minute, I thought I had a scholarship to FAMU?” So now I gotta do something real quick and find some way to get my tuition together. So it was raking the yards of professors. I got qualified for work study program making ninety-three dollars a month. It was just a matter of hustling. Election time come up and it was Ms. FAMU, Ms. This, Ms. That. My being in art, I could charge you to do posters and stuff like that so it was a matter of putting things together.

Eating peanut butter and throwing tree branches in the pecan tree, eating pecans. Trying to get older and my parents sending me these care packages. So I was good enough to do that to just kind of hang in there till I got back home that summer to start working to get myself together. It was rough, the second semester of my first year at FAMU. My girlfriend sent me a Dear John letter.

	NS:	[Laughter]



	LS:	That was heartbreaking but sometimes you just gotta suck it up. Like when they say keep it moving. That’s pretty much the story of my first year in college.

Hustling because I came back and I understood that no more band, no more marching, none of that. Done with that. It was just kind of keeping my nose to the ground, working hard. Grades kind of suffered that first year so I just — you’re just grown. You’re grown up now. I just tried to stay focused after that. I left FAMU.I was doing real well. My parents gave me an old [19]64 Chevy that was the family’s car, got back to Tallahassee and I think that was the end of my junior year and I would get to transport people to the dog track.





V:   To the dog track?



LS:  To the dog track. Ten dollars round trip. Five people in, that was fifty bucks.



Sometimes you hit and actually get money. Now you’re making like fifty dollars a day, Saturday you got a marinee so you’re making a hundred months. So end of the month, you’re like four hundred dollars-five hundred dollars.

V:   Well, that’s better than ninety-three. [Laughter]



	LS:	[Laughter] Now wait a minute, I still was doing that, too. V:	So you were still doing the work study?

	LS:	Yes, the work study program because I was working in the hiring department, and I was working for the department head. There wasn't no quitting.[Inaudible]made sure you got this job so it wasn’t no leaving that. You do this other thing on your own but you still got this to do. I used to drive around FAMU’s campus in a Porsche.

	V:	In a Porsche? Oh lord. [Laughter] LS:	Yeah!

	NS:	Not his, of course. V:	Whose Porsche?

	LS:	It was the department head’s. Dr. Lewis’ Porsche and I used to give the campus police hell. I’d go to these errands every day, I had to go to the mailbox which was actually at the airport because they were shipping[Inaudible]and things like that. You had these packages and you had to go to the airport to pick them up. I would come back and you know college campuses with all these no parking signs? Well the way the art department building is made, all these professors had





their own parking things in the back of the building. Then there was a delivery area around the front, like a loading dock. It was no parking there. I’d take my packages up, so I would come around and the campus police used to see me coming. He’d wave and I’d take the car and [car noise] into the no parking thing. He would come and take his time while I’m still sitting there, and he’s writing a ticket. He takes a ticket and puts it on the windshield. I get out, take the ticket out, tear the ticket up and throw it down, and then walk into the art department.

This was like a ritual every day. He knew whose car it was with parking stickers and all that kind of stuff. It was Dr. Lewis’ car. How am I driving a Porsche?

Come on now! It was a little two seater rollster thing. I used to get real close to the driveway area and put it in neutral and go [throttle noise]. He’d come over behind me and give me the ticket and I’d just tear the ticket up. Dr. Lewis told me, “You relax. When you got ready to graduate, they probably could have gotten it.” I wasn’t worried about that, it wasn’t my car and wasn’t registered to me! You! That’s your problem! I said, “Yeah but when the building was designed and y’all put the driveway there — or you should’ve said, loading area or parking, whatever.” But there was no parking there. So I got to walk on back in the building. Building was on a hill so the back of the building is like a basement. You come in on the front of the building, you come in on the first floor. So why would I come in on the basement and walk up these steps with the packages when I could just go right on up to the thing and walk into the first floor and drop it at the office? Which I did and which I got a ticket for every day! Well, you know I didn’t get ticketed on Saturday or Sunday.[Inaudible]be funny. Lot of the times he’d just





look at me and write the ticket. “You don’t wanna write that ticket.” “I got to write the ticket.” “You don’t wanna write that ticket.” “I have to.” “Okay, write the ticket..” Take the ticket, tear it up. “You know you could get cited for littering.” “Yeah I guess I could. I got to do what I got to do.” Get my pages and walk into the building. Edgar, who was his nephew, worked in the office in the building. He did all the clerical stuff. He used to come in, “Man, why are you giving that man a hard time every day?” “Well, rules are rules”. “You better do see your uncle. Go upstairs and see your uncle. I ain’t got nothing to do with that.” Every day, I used to get these tickets.

	NS:	[Laughter]. Alright, Julian. What’s next?



	V:	[Laughter] I was going to ask, do you have any college stories? Did you also go to the FAMU?

	NS:	No, unfortunately. We had four generations that have gone to FAMU starting with my mother and then Levon, then our son, and we even have a grandson who went for a year. They had never got a degree and never left Tallahassee. [Laughter]

	LS:	We do have a granddaughter who’s in college. V:	What did you do after high school?

	NS:	After high school, I went to Edison. I did secretarial science at Edison for two years.

	LS:	It was a two year program at that time.



	NS:	Then ended up going down to Dade County and working for Metropolitan Dade County Court System in the finance department —





	V:	So you went back to Miami?



	NS:	Yeah, but only for a year because my mom died my senior year of high school so everything as far as my career path got turned upside down. They got married in [19]53, that means I was —

	LS:	When he died?



	NS:	No, I’m just trying to remember how long Daddy-O … [Laughter] I would’ve been six when they got married. So twelve years… Daddy-O, my stepfather, he had been there at least twelve years. My sister is two years behind me so when my mom died, it was my senior year of high school but my sister did not want to leave. She wanted to stay and graduate from Dunbar as well. My stepfather allowed us to go ahead and stay here. Then I moved to Miami like I said and worked there. Then we got married in Dade County, in Hialeah, and coming back to Fort Myers. [Laughter]

	V:	I was going to ask that. How did you two meet?



	NS:	We started dating my tenth grade year of high school [Laughter]. We’ve been together forever.

	LS:	You were in ninth grade, and I was in tenth grade. NS:	Something like that.

		LS:	[Inaudible] NS:		[Inaudible]

	LS:	The crazy part of this whole thing is she was trying to set me up with somebody else.

	V:	Oh really? And she ended up falling for you, or you fell for her?





	LS:	I just kind of fell for her. She was that desperate to see me with somebody else. But it wasn’t like we didn’t know each other because we were attended the same church and all this stuff. We were in the band together and it’s not like we didn’t know each other. We were just good friends and ended up dating each other through most of high school,[Inaudible]up in college.

	NS:	When he was talking about the Dear John letter.



	LS:	Yeah, she wrote this long Dear John letter. We had been together forever. She’s writing this long Dear John letter and I was getting some bad advice at that time. My friend and her neighbor was telling me, “That lady didn’t like you, so you shouldn’t come home to this funeral or whatever.” And I listened to them and I didn’t come home so that just ruffled her feathers, I guess you might say. So she wrote me a letter in January, when I got back to FAMU, going through a thing, thinking I’m getting ready to get kicked out of school because I didn’t have a room. I was sleeping on the floor in a dormitory, trying to call it home, begging people to send you some money, to send me something. I didn’t have an address because I was what they called cat in the dormitory. I get the letter at my old address, and a big letter, too!

	NS:	[Laughter]



	LS:	I remember it like it were yesterday.



	NS:	Alright, let’s go back to [Inaudible 57:32]. He done got us all off the subject. V:	[Laughter] I was asking you both when you met in high school.

	LS:	That was pretty much it. She was talking about having to go to her mom’s for a class. Can you imagine my going to an English teacher when you date her





daughter? That was my situation. Not only that, but her dad also. I took biology from him.

	NS:	But he was cool.



	LS:	Yeah he was alright. When I come back, finish FAMU, we got married and I get back here, her dad would come to my boss because he’s the assistant principal. He always rejected my lesson plans.

	NS:	[Laughter]



	V:	Just to spite you?



	LS:	He didn’t like the way I used to write them. We were okay beyond that lesson plan thing.

	V:	So you started teaching in [19]69, then? LS:	[19]68.

	V:	Oh, [19]68, because [19]69 is when they closed.



	LS:	Yes, I was a transition. That was another thing. Just got a job, now Nancy’s pregnant, I don’t have a job! What do we do now? They were going to close the school, and I’m not out on contract which means they’re not obligated to give me a contract. They look for what they call continuing contract teachers first. First year teachers got no. And teaching art! Do you know how many art teachers are in the school! There ain’t that many. It was kind of like, Uh-oh, Pregnant wife. At that time we were living with my parents?

	NS:	Yup.



	LS:	We moved in with my parents, got no nothing pretty much. It’s me and God, and her, and pregnant, and all that other good stuff all in one time. But the last day of





planning, a Friday at two or three in the afternoon, final meeting before you kids starting that Monday, I was called to get a job at North Fort Myers High School. I headed over there, didn’t know nothing, didn’t know nobody there, didn’t know anything, didn’t even know where the classroom was. So that Monday when I got there, they gave me keys and a description on how to get to my classroom.

Classroom not prepared or anything. I was teaching eighth graders all day. It was an innovated time, you got something figured out, and I was the first person to walk in the classroom. Kids were nice! They were scared, I was scared, we were scared together. Got the [Inaudible] first year, and I got adjusted. That was[Inaudible]walk out.

	V:	Oh right. What was the context for that?



	LS:	When the kids came from Dunbar High School, they always had Black History Day. Was it Negro History Day or Black History Day?

	NS:	I don’t know.



	LS:	But that was a big celebration on Dunbar’s campus. You went around putting up signs of people who were famous.

		NS:	Back at that time, Negro History Week is what it was called. LS:		It wasn’t a whole week, it was just a day.

	NS:	I don’t know what you did at your school but it was Negro History Week.



	LS:		Anyway, start the school year off real well. Football kids were playing football together. Fort Myers was a terror. Matter of fact, the quarterback, who was the quarterback at Dunbar, became the starting quarterback at North Fort Myers High School. A very good kid, a terror. So, football season is over and thank god





you really don’t have a central type thing, but kids are playing basketball. It’s basketball season, and I can remember that day. The Black kids come to school, they got their posters. They’re putting their posters. We were in wings there. You didn’t have buildings like now. They had six wings.

	V:	I’ve been to North Fort Myers High’s campus. It was different from it is today? LS:	Real different. Matter of fact, they tore that school down. They were in wings.

You had an office area, then a hall here, then these wings each way, then a parking lot out here, and a gym over here. The way the school was made, between these wings you got lockers. Kids were coming to school and they were putting up their posters. White kids come tearing them and started a riot. When I say riot, it was a riot. It didn’t just start at North Fort Myers School, you had a riot at Fort Myers High, you had a riot at Cypress Lake. That started the tension between a lot of on the school board. How do we make Black kids feel like they’re welcome here? Fort Myers High School was playing Dixie, they had the rebel flag waving, and all kinds of stuff like that. That kind of pushed them to look at themselves. Everybody was still upset about the year before that, and now these Black kids are coming to the White schools. And! The Black kids were upset because there was no Black cheerleaders, no Black tennis players, no Black baseball players. There were not given chances to try out. At North Fort Myers High School, they started a thing, not a full scale riot, but the next day they came and all the Black kids walked out of the school. They walked all the way down Pondella and across the bridge and they went to Saint John Church. Now the school board gotta decide what to do with these kids. Do we suspend these





kids? Do we let them back them in? What do we do? So that started a whole lot of looking inwards. We were in a crazy position because there weren’t many Black teachers at the time. What do we do? Do we walk out? We said, “I ain’t walking out. I just got a job.” Then you had one kid, one Black kid who came from my classroom,[Inaudible]she didn’t want to walk out because her mom was a teacher at the school. Her mom was her homeroom teacher and this lady was strict also. This kid had perfect attendance so it was like, “Do I walk out of here? If I do, my mom is going to kill me. Do I mess up my perfect attendance? I don’t know how to deal with that.” I watched this kid be abused by White teachers.

They used the N word, throw the [Inaudible].The kid was crying and she came to my classroom and she sat there. That pretty much put everything on edge.

Coming back that Monday, the way the school is situated, you got a driveway by the football field and it comes around the back. For baseball, you’re sitting there behind the bleachers, and “N word, go home.” The library, which extends the roof a little bit higher, was ridden so no one would have to get up on the roof to paint this stuff. This is the kind of thing that in my second year, the principal, we don’t know where he went. The principal disappeared. The next year he decided that he retired.

	NS:	Who? Bebo?



	LS:	The kids themselves formed these committees. Racial something committee.



The idea was that anytime there was any kind of incident, these kids would meet. What they would do is they would get whatever the incident was, they would meet and get the word out specifically of what it was. It wasn’t how the rumors





go. The idea was kill these rumors so they would meet immediately. They were on the PA system and say we need to meet immediately and you knew some kind of incident was happening within the school. All of a sudden you would hear kids coming back saying what happened. I don’t know who came up with the idea but it was a real good idea because there was no rumor like “Oh this kid got knocked out by this kid. This kid did this.” None of that. It was just these kids and tell exactly what happened, and eventually it kind of[Inaudible]until now. I came to North Fort Myers High School and I stayed there for thirty four years.

	V:	Did the tension just kind of pass away?



	LS:	It passed away because everybody was given a platform. In other words, you could speak out about what you thought was wrong. The assistant principal who was Herb Wiseman, I don’t know if you heard of him, he was the basketball coach and eventually he came principal at Fort Myers High School. He would have these sessions. These kids would get together and talk about what was good, what was bad, what they would like to see, what happened. It used to be funny because the White kids would basically — you would think about the things Black kids would say to White kids. The White kids would say that stuff, “There are no Blacks playing over here.” That kind of stuff was [Inaudible]. North Fort Myers was funny. You had the kids from Cape Coral, from Sun Coast, they didn’t like each other. They called them the Mother [Inaudible] The Mother

[Inaudible] didn’t like nobody. Kids from Bayshore, and the kids came from Sun Coast. They were together. Then you had what they used to call socials. The socials were from Cape Coral.





	V:	Of course [Laughter].



	LS:	Then you had the Mother [Inaudible], then you had the Black kids. Everybody had their thing and group. They represented their groups when they put the thing together. I have never seen anything as crazy as those kids used to interact with each other.

	V:	Oh really?



	LS:	Most of the cheerleaders came from Cape Coral. They were the socials. The cowboys off of Bayshore and Sun Coast, they didn’t like them. She got a tan so poor White kid, so she could’ve been from Sun Coast. Oh, she was labelled. This is the kind of thing we went through. After that it was not a racial thing, it was a class thing. It became a class thing.

	V:	You were talking before with the walk out, there was a thing going through the minds of Black teachers, “Do we walk out, too?” What was that like?

	LS:	The faculty got along very well so it wasn’t like kids walking out. Teachers, we weren’t going anywhere.

	V:	Sorry to cut you off, but even with the White teachers shouting expletives at the Black students and things like that?

	LS:	Those students eventually left because you had the older White teachers who were actually doing that.

	V:	They just eventually fazed out of the system?



	LS:	Yeah. Because I remember my first evaluation as a teacher at North Fort Myers High School and it was bad. I thought, “I’d fire me if I was principal. I would fire.” It was bad. My only saving grace was the fact that the guy, a fellow teacher who I





would ride with, when I saw my evaluation, I’m looking at it, and it’s bad. Unsatisfactory. Punctuality. Getting to school on time: Unsatisfactory. The assistant principal who evaluated me, his name was [Inaudible] Blair. The assistant principal who evaluated my friend who I’d ride with was Herb Wiseman. He had all these S’s and I had “Needs Improvement.” And the one saving grace was the fact that I had punctuality: unsatisfactory, and he had satisfactory. We would ride in the car together! We were getting to school at the same time. When the assistant principal do their evaluations and you go to the principal, then the principal interviews you and you sign together. That determines whether you get a contract next year. So I get caught with this evaluation and I say, “Gosh am I really this bad?” So we go to the principal and he’s looking at it, and I’m like, “This is crazy.” He looks at me and he goes, “What do you want? Another evaluation.” I said, “Yeah, but I want his evaluation.” Oh brother. So Mr. Wiseman came back to sign the evaluation so now I got to confront it. I said, “When did you come to my classroom to evaluate me?” He said, “Well this is stuff I’m hearing about you.”

	NS:	[Laughter].



	LS:	“Who are you hearing this stuff from?” “I can’t divulge this.” He never came to my classroom. It was kind of like I just met you now. He was that type of person.

We’d see each other in the halls but we had no interaction. But he was the person that evaluated me. He said he was not coming to my classroom. That was my thing.





	NS:	Now, you gave Julian a false impression. I think, just a while ago when you said that the teachers got along very well, and then you talk about the fact

	that George Mill, you come in to the teacher’s lounge and they wouldn’t speak. LS:	Oh, that right right there. No, our interaction was just like anything. Even now,

there are people who probably work together and there are groups just like kids. George Mill would walk into the teacher’s room and George is a real

U guy. He would say, “Good Morning,” because that’s the way he’d greet you. He walked into the work room and says good morning and nobody said anything. So he says, “Damn, I just take my ‘Good morning!’ back.” And say, “Hey George, hey George, that was an incident.” George worked on the sixth wing, that’s on the edge of the parking lot by the street. He saw some of the craziest stuff. Kids coming to school with flags on the back of their trucks, Confederate flags. His whole take on North Fort Myers School was different from mine.

	V:	That’s interesting because he told me it was relatively tamed compared to others.



That was tame? [Laughter]



	LS:	[Laughter]. Yeah, this was when we first got there. It was different then. But like I said, it settled down and it began to work itself out. Like he said, it was relatively tame U. Those kids didn’t like that kid because he had a tan. Their whole thing was they was ready to fight each other because Fort Myers had a very good little league program, Cape Coral had a little league program. So now these kids get into high school and get on the team together and compete for certain positions. So they had a thing with each other. Even now, they got their ideas about living in North Fort Myers and living in Cape Coral. Now it’s just Cape has expanded





itself. You look around and U being Cape Coral. That was another thing of contention. A lot of people who lived on Pine Island Road itself, those people find themselves in Cape Coral because they bought land out here this is a rural area and all of a sudden it was a thing of contention. You go right down the street and you’re in Cape Coral now from North Fort Myers High School. That did not work out.

	V:	Yeah, my family is right in central Cape and I think North Fort Myers is like twelve minutes away. That’s where my testing was and stuff like that.

	LS:	Do you know where Mariner High School is? V:	Yeah.

	LS:	That wasn’t even in Cape Coral.



	V:	Oh, wow. Mariner wasn’t even in Cape Coral? NS:	Unh-huh.

	LS:	All of that was an extension.



	V:	Was that just what was going on in the time then? Because I know Fort Myers was also annexing land. There was parts of Dunbar that weren’t in Fort Myers.

	LS:	Right. That …



	V:	A whole other can of worms? [Laughter]



	NS:	I was going to say because you got parts of Fort Myers going all the way out to the gateway, on the other side of 75.

	LS:	What makes that so crazy, they’re part of Broadway there. It’s the county and Fort Myers annexed around it. You got the enclave U and the county.

	NS:	Because those people refused to become a part of Fort Myers.





	LS:	Do you remember Fort Myers Middle School? Matter of fact, right across from the middle school, that’s the county. But everything around it …

	V:	The one thing I wanted to ask about, I heard that and even saw a newspaper clipping about whether or not it should have been done. There was a thing at Fort Myers High that dogs had been brought in at one of the disturbances?

	LS:	That was an offshoot of the thing I was telling you about. NS:	The riot.

	LS:	With Negro History. What was crazy about Fort Myers High School as opposed to the other high schools around here, it was the only high school that was in the city. They use city police officers. All the rest the schools use deputy sheriffs. The whole idea out of the Fort Myers Police Department was different. Their tactics was different. When these “riots” started, the Fort Myers Police Department brought in dogs to quell this riot. Would it have happened at the any other schools? I doubt it because you did not have Fort Myers P.D., you had the Sheriff’s Department. Fort Myers Police Department had its own problems, or has its own problems, so that had a lot to do with bringing the dogs in. I could never visualize that happening at the other schools.

	V:	I was thinking the craziness of it with the dogs. That’s one of the things I’ve been asking people, whether it was FMPD or the Sheriff’s Department.

	LS:		It was FMPD. That was their jurisdiction at with the fact that Fort Myers High School is in the city of Fort Myers. It’s like Cape Coral would probably nowadays use Cape Coral PD. in certain schools like Mariner or Cape High, because it’s in the city. But in these unincorporated areas like North Fort Myers High School,





East Bay or Lee County, they would probably use deputies. I’m gonna say the morning that happened and it was described to me, that they brought in the dogs, they used football players also to try to stop the riots. It got worse than anticipated to put it that way. It was all about Negro History Week.

	NS:	I have to do some checking, Julian, if you want to talk to somebody that was actually there but I think Renee she was probably at Fort Myers.

	LS:	No. She went to Cypress Bay.



	NS:	Oh, because her mom was working. Who would’ve been at Fort Myers?



	LS:		I can’t tell you specifically. All the kids north of MLK went all to North Fort Myers High School.

	V:	I’ve been trying to figure out more with the story because my dad is a lieutenant at FMPD and he got me in touch with U Ferrell because I thought U Ferrell would know something about it. He was the one who initially told me about the story but he said he didn’t remember a lot about it so I’ve been trying to find the people involved, even the police officers who were there and figure out what exactly the mentality was. I think that whole situation is crazy.

	LS:	You might get Johnny Streets.



	V:	Johnny Streets? Oh, yeah. Johnny Streets was a canine officer. LS:	Yes but when did he go on the force though?

	NS:	I don’t know. That might be too soon for Johnny, I don’t know. LS:	It might’ve been too soon.





	V:	One of the things we have at my house, they did a history of the Fort Myers Police Department book, and there’s pictures of Johnny Streets in there so I think he might’ve been there at the time. Black and white photos.

	NS:	I was looking at that same book when I was going through these. I’d have to ask him. Charles went to North Fort Myers, too, right?

	LS:	Yes, he was in the north. NS:	I’ll call him.

	LS:	I can remember Carmen at Dunbar, that was when she was in tenth grade. NS:	Right.

	LS:	She might’ve went to Fort Myers High because that area is Fort Myers High so maybe she could tell you something. Carmen McClary.

	NS:	Carmen, maiden name Johnson. V:	How do you spell her name?

	NS:	C-A-R-M-E-N, Johnson is maiden name, then M-c-C-L-A-R-Y. V:	I want to try to find her and talk to her, too. Your student Renee? LS:	She doesn’t live here.

	V:	Oh, she doesn’t live here anymore? NS:	She’s in Orlando now.

	LS:	Is she in Orlando? I thought she was in Tallahassee. NS:	I’ll call her and if see if she’ll talk to you on the phone.

	V:	I don’t have the equipment but when I’m back in Gainesville we have stuff so we can do phone interviews. I can try to get in touch with you guys again and see then if I can find her. What was her last name? Renee?





	NS:	Her maiden name was Smith.



	LS:	It’s Tolliver now, isn’t it? Did she change that? NS:	Not that I’m aware of. T-O-L-L-I-V-E-R.

	V:	Okay, Tolliver. I’ll keep those on hand. Carmen McClary still lives here? NS:	Mmhm.

	V:	Do you have her number? NS:	Yeah.

	V:	We’ll just figure out that out then. We’re going on an hour and thirty minutes. Do you guys still extra time?

	LS:	We got plenty time. We don’t do anything. V:	Because I got another — they close at four. NS:	You’ve got eight minutes.

	V:	I thought I saw another half hour. I’ll end it there then. Would you guys be open to a second interview, like a part two?

	LS:	Sure.



	V:	Thank you! I’ll end the interview here. [End of interview]

	Transcribed by:	Heather Halak



	Audit-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, March 3, 2021 Final-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, March 10, 2021