AAHP 730; Berry; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 730 Rebia Berry 9-27-2020 Interviewed by Joe Hartman on September 27, 2019

110 minutes | 29 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Joe Hartman sits down with McCoy, Florida elder Rebia Berry to discuss her life as an educator in central Florida. Berry recollects several generations of family history, including the life of her mother, Pearl, her grandparents, and her great-grandparents. She recalls her family owning a large plot of land for several generations, which they used for farming but also allowed as a community space for churches and other public buildings to be constructed on. Berry recalls her education at Bethune-Cookman College in Daytona, which she later used to become a teacher. Berry recalls her first teaching assignment, where she single-handedly ran an all-grades, one-room schoolhouse and served as the teacher, principal, janitor, and bus driver. Berry goes on to describe her colorful teaching career and reflects on the effects of integration on the education system. She remembers her children’s experiences as students amidst the chaos of integration, and reflects on the future of education in Florida.







Keywords: [Central Florida, Black community, family history, rural, education, teacher, segregation, integration, HBCU, Bethune Cookman]



AAHP 730

Interviewee: Rebia Berry Interviewer: Joe Hartman Date: September 27, 2019





	H:	My name is Joe Hartman, and we are here together at Rebia Berry’s house in Fort McCoy, Florida. We are doing an interview hopefully to get some stories about her experience growing up in Fort McCoy and her career as a teacher in Marion County. It’s September the 27th, 2019, and with that let me ask Mrs. Berry to tell me your full name and where and when you were born?

	B:	My name is Rebia Ethel Berry. My maiden name is Redding.



	H:	Okay, and you were born here in Fort McCoy? B:	I was born in Palmetto, Florida.

	H:	In Palmetto. Now where is that? B:	Do you know Bradenton?

	H:	Yeah.



	B:	Real close together, they say.



	H:	You were born there. And when were you born, in Palmetto? B:	1926. April 20th.

	H:	1926. So, let’s start with Palmetto. So, your parents lived in Palmetto?



	B:	They lived there. I don’t remember anything about Palmetto, I was a baby. And they moved from Palmetto back home—

	H:	Back home meaning? B:	That’s Fort McCoy.

	H:	They came from Fort McCoy then?



	B:	Oh yes. My mother and our family had been here over a hundred years, these same folks. This land, anyway.





	H:	Let’s start with your grandparents then, the grandparents on your mother’s side.



	Okay, let’s start with them or we can go even further— B:	My grandmother? Her name was Flora Ingram.

	H:	Okay…



	B:	And my mother was Pearl Ingram, that was before she married.



	H:	Your mother was Pearl Ingram, okay. And Flora Ingram was born here in Fort McCoy? Or in this area?

	B:	In this area.



	H:	Okay.



	B:	It was across the river.



	H:	Oh, she was on the other side of the river, okay.



	B:	If I remember correctly, her people were on the other side of the river, mmhm. H:	Okay. But when you grew up, and you must’ve grown up here in Fort McCoy,

where was she at that point?



	B:	Now, see, my grandmother married, I understand, her husband, I think, came from North Carolina.

	H:	What was his last name, was he an Ingram? B:	Joseph Ingram.

	H:	He was an Ingram, okay. So, he came from North Carolina—



	B:	That’s what I understand, he came here, settled here, and they married and that’s when I think they must’ve moved over on this side of the river.

	H:	Okay, so they started off on the other side of the river? B:	That’s my grandmother, that’s when she was a girl.





	H:	Right, that’s what I meant. And then they moved over here?



	B:	Yeah, they moved over here. This land, it was a lot of land at that time that my granddaddy, Joseph is my granddaddy. Alright, his granddaddy came from North Carolina.

	H:	Okay. So, your great grandparents came from North Carolina?



	B:	That’s it, North Carolina. I understand he had two boys and one girl. Alright, and one boy was named Joseph.

	H:	And that was your grandfather, got you.



	B:	Alright, and Joseph married Flora, which is my grandmother.



	H:	And so, when you grew up, they were together on this side of the river?



	B:	No, I’ll get to that. Alright, Joseph and Flora married, and they had thirteen children.

	H:	Thirteen children!



	B:	Thirteen children. And my mom, Pearl, was the last one that I know of that lived. H:	And do you know where they lived?

	B:	They lived right across the highway. That land over on that side of the road? It belongs to me now.

	H:	It’s still in the family name?



	B:	Right. Because my great, great grandfather came from North Carolina. He bought land and we had a—My mom said she thinks it’s about eighty acres that they had. And it narrowed down to what it is now.

	H:	Right.





	B:	Because my grandmother gave all the children land and they sold some of it and lost some of it.

	H:	And there were thirteen children? B:	Yeah. Thirteen children.

	H:	And did they all live together under one roof or they were spread out over a period of time, so they weren’t under one roof?

	B:	Well, at first when they were small, I’m sure they was under one roof. Because I remember my mama saying something about they had a house like a log cabin, way back in the days. And they all lived under that one roof and as they grew up, then they went their ways. Except one named Emmanuel, he stayed with his mama longer than the rest of the boys, I remember that. My grandfather, Joseph, he became paralyzed. This is the story as it was told to me—

	H:	You don’t remember him then?



	B:	No, I don’t remember him at all, no. I remember a step-grandfather. But anyway, they had oxen during that time, that’s what they worked with, because my mom was a baby when he died. The oxen got away, running, and they couldn’t find him and when they did find him, the oxen was almost to Orange Spring. Well, it was hot. So, they had no cars, nothing like that then. The only thing they had— they had a cart, but the oxen was gone so he had to walk when he found out where the oxen was.

	H:	Oh, they didn’t have horses either? They just had the oxen?



	B:	That’s all they had at that time. They didn’t have a horse or mule or anything. And so, it was hot weather, he walked all that way up there and then trying to





drive the oxen back, he got overheated and he had a stroke. And he became paralyzed from the knees all the way down. He couldn’t walk anymore. But the kind of work he started doing was cutting wood and during that time—

	H:	This was before he was paralyzed, in other words or—



	B:	I don’t know what exactly he was doing— now I know it was on a farm. I don’t know what else he done. But I remember them talking about that’s the kind of work he does after he was paralyzed.

	H:	Cutting wood?



	B:	Cutting wood. And he would cut wood for the train, it used to come from Palatka to Ocala. It was over on this side, about a half a mile going back through the woods to the west. And he would cut—That’s what the train was run by.

	H:	It was a steam engine run by firewood, okay.



	B:	Right. And they would haul it up in a little cart. I guess the boys would help him, because there was plenty of boys. I think it was—depends on how many girls it was. Let’s see. Hattie, Rose, Evelyn, and Pearl—I think it was four girls and all the rest was boys. So, he had a bunch of boys. And so that’s how he made his living, and my grandmamma worked for people.

	H:	Okay, doing cleaning and washing?



	B:	Washing and whatever, and farming. And then the Priests, related to Pauline, lived in Burbank. They were [inaudible 8:44]. And so, most of my grandmother’s children worked for the Priests, and that was at what they called Burbank.

	H:	What kind of work did they do?





	B:	Well, they had whatever. The farming, they would use her boys. Grinding cane, because remember my mama telling me when she was a little girl said she sat up in a chair and she would feed the mill with the cane and make cane juice and syrup.

	H:	Yeah, I’ve watched—



	B:	You’ve seen that, okay. And they had a lot of animals—What was it? —Sheep, that’s what it was. It was sheep, and a certain time of year, my uncle, Lemmie Mel, he was the head one that did all the shearing. And this ain’t a big farm. The Priests’.

	H:	And how would they get to the farm? Did they—



	B:	Walk. They had to walk almost three miles to work. Morning and afternoon.



	H:	At that time, the Fort McCoy school went through the eighth grade, is that correct?

	B:	The White school, I think—I really don’t—did Harley say anything about how far that school went—because it wasn’t integrated then.

H:  I meant for your relatives. Roosevelt said when he went—and this was later on— he said it went through the eighth grade. I thought that Edmond told me the sixth grade. How far did you go through the Black school?

B:   It was the eighth grade.



H:  Okay, so I misunderstood him. B:   Yeah. Or he made a mistake.

H:  A lot of folks dropped out after eighth grade. Is that when your folks were working on the Priests’ farm or was that during the summer?





	B:	Oh no, this was way before. I’m taking you way back.



	H:	Oh, we’re talking about way back. Would they have gone—What I’m wondering is, would they have worked on that farm instead of school or during school hours or just in the summer?

	B:	During the time that I’m talking about now, they had a school here. This was a little place they called Daisy, because of the creek. The creek runs behind our house all the way down to the Ocklawaha River. And people used to let them come down here, people would walk, they would go fishing down there. My grandfather’s house was further over—I’m taking you way back before the highway was through here. And my mother’s house was facing the east, because there was a gradient road about almost a mile over from where I am now, and that’s where the road was, and it went to Fort McCoy. That’s the mailman’s route. It didn’t come up here like the highway now, that’s where it was. Later on, they put the highway through and when they put the highway through they put it through part of my grandmamma’s land. And on the right-hand side is on a nice big house on the left-hand side now. But that was dug out and they used part of the dirt. So, they—this is history—so they talked her into letting them use some of her land, that her taxes would be lower if they did.

	H:	So, they didn’t buy the land, they just lowered the taxes? B:	No, no!

	H:	Or said they were going to lower the taxes? Basically, they took her land is what they did.

	B:	This is all history. Now, this is before my time.





	H:	Sure. But back then, unlike the Fort McCoy School, there was a school in Daisy where they would’ve gone.

	B:	Yes and let me tell you where this was at. Alright, after my great grandaddy died, the land went on to my grandmother. I’m surprised way back in that time that he knew anything about making a will. He made a will out and left the part of the land to his children. And Joseph was the main one that got the biggest of the land, he was married to Flora. The land was—it goes back that way, east. They built two churches on the land. They let them do it. A Methodist and a Baptist.

The Methodist over on this side and the Baptist was straight back from our house.

	H:	Both on their land? Two different churches?



	B:	Yeah, he had a lot of land and he let them do it. And then they had—we’d call it a club or something now, but it was a CB&A. They call it a CB&A Club and it was built with a two-story. You know, like you have the serrages, I heard them talking about how they would make you members. And they have an upstairs or something to do this before you could become a member you went through certain things.

	H:	And this was a Black club that somebody started out here?



	B:	This was all Black. And all those buildings was—And then it was a little dirt road back there. It was all on our land. And they had a school, then the school, the county, they used the bottom part for the children. This was for the school.

	H:	Oh, the CB&A Club, okay. And that was the Daisy School?





	B:	Yes. And then after that, the county built a little one-room school on our land between the two churches, further up this land. And that’s where I went to school. When I went to first grade, that building that was down there, CB&A was down there. I was real small, I remember. And I went there maybe one year or something like that, and then they built a little school up there.

	H:	And that would have gone through what? Sixth grade or eighth grade?



	B:	I’m trying to think, how far did that go? I know the large children was there and the small children. So, it must be seventh or eighth grade.

	H:	Seventh or eighth grade, okay.



	B:	No high school has ever been before integration. H:	Yeah, that’s my understanding.

	B:	Not in this area. And so, I guess it must have went to seventh or eighth grade. H:	So, you went there—

	B:	I went there until they closed that, and they closed that, then it was just— Everybody had gone different places for work and everything. And it wasn’t very many people left here. And there weren’t many children, it was just my mother and the ones down on the river. They had to walk a long way anyway to school. So, I remember it was just my cousin and myself. And we had no way of getting to school at all, because the closest school is Fort McCoy.

	H:	Which is a long walk away.



	B:	It is a long walk. My mother used to walk all the way there, because she said the school only went four months. And she came along. Four months down here, and the school opened a little later up there. So, they would have to pay a dollar and





a half or something like that for a week or two—They’d have to walk there and back, she said. So long time ago, it didn’t go to the eighth grade. But she went to the eighth grade, so she had to go—

	H:	Up at Fort McCoy.



	B:	You’re right. And let’s see, what happened after then— H:	So, she went to Fort McCoy—

	B:	My mother went to school here in Fort McCoy. Two places.



	H:	And Fort McCoy, that school, it was there at the time while she was in school here.

	B:	Right, because that was a different neighborhood. Because we was getting our mail from Burbank, yeah, the people down in this area. Later on, then all of this was Fort McCoy.

	H:	It all became Fort McCoy, I got you. Okay.



	B:	All of it. Eureka and Daisy and all of this became Fort McCoy. Even people down there in Burbank, the mailman goes all down there too.

	H:	So, at one point, there were thirteen kids, and your mom was the youngest of those, all living in one house?

	B:	And they all worked for the Priests.



H:  They all worked for the Priest. And then what happened in terms of homes? In other words, those kids grew up, your mother was the youngest, she stayed in that house, or did they move before she—?





	B:	They built another house. My granddaddy Joseph died, I don’t remember him, and my grandmother married again. And when she married again, she married a Thomas, and he was from Missouri, I heard.

	H:	And that would have been your mom’s stepdad, okay.



	B:	I remember him. That’s the stepdad. Now, that’s the grandaddy that I remember.



See, when she married him, mama was a girl. So, she was raised up, because she could barely remember her dad. But she remembers a man on crutches, she said. And so, she’d go and sit in his lap, she can remember that.

	H:	Oh, she remembers her stepdad well, of course. B:	Right, right. Yes.

H:  So how many kids did she grow up with, your mom? B:  Well, my grandmama didn’t have any more children. H:  She didn’t have any more?

	B:	No. The thirteen was from Joseph. She didn’t have no more children.



	H:	And then so your mom was the youngest and the last one to live with your grandmother and her stepdad? And went to school at Fort McCoy, finished at Fort McCoy. And then tell me, what happened with her after that.

	B:	There was no school and they had no way of getting to school, so she didn’t go to school anymore. And then my dad came along, and he was from Georgia. He worked for himself, and he worked for a company in Jacksonville, the Wooton Fiber Company. And those palmettos, you see palmettos like that, only out in the woods they grow bigger and the trunks of it is larger. That was what he done, he worked out of the woods, and he would cut these cabbages down, he would load





them and give them to the railroad and fill up the boxcar. There would be a boxcar there waiting for him, and he would haul them there and fill that up and then they’d ship ‘em on the Jacksonville. And the fiber of it, they’d take it and make the brushes and brooms.

	H:	I heard that, yes.



	B:	That’s what they would do.



	H:	So, he had already moved to Fort McCoy when he met your mom?



	B:	Yeah, well it was out in Burbank. He was out in Burbank, as I understand it, he had some men working for him and they rented a vacant house or something like that. They stayed out in Burbank. And my uncle, by that time, he was married and everything and they lived in Burbank. It was about three Black families I knew that lived out there in Burbank. And the churches was over here, the whole community was all around over here on my grandmama’s land. So, he happened to come over, I think, to church and that’s where he met—

	H:	That’s where he met her. B:	Yeah, met my mom.

	H:	And how old was she when she got married? Was she still pretty young? B:	Fifteen or sixteen, she was young.

	H:	And he was older, I guess? He must have been.



	B:	Oh yeah, he was a bit older than mama. And so, they got married and they went to Orlando, I think.

	H:	Oh, they moved after they got married? B:	Oh, yeah. I was born somewhere else.





	H:	And they ended up in Palmetto from Orlando, then?



	B:	Yeah, I don’t think they stayed in Orlando very long. Wherever he could find the cabbage growing and he could get permission to cut it, that’s what he done for his work.

	H:	He had his own truck, I guess?



	B:	Now, when I came along I remember that was later on. I can’t tell you about at the beginning when they first married whether he had a truck or not. But I remember Mr. Wooton bought him a brand-new truck, that was after they came back home. I don’t know how, whether he got people that had a truck to haul it for him or what, I don’t know how that worked.

	H:	But you were a baby and in Palmetto, moved back to the Fort McCoy area—



	B:	Yes, because times had gotten real bad, because they was buying a lot to build a home down there. I heard Daddy saying things just went down—I forgot what president it was, but it seemed like one of the presidents died or something like that. Because everything was booming for a while when they first got married.

And they had plenty of work and everything and they were doing fine, and it was paying for our lot down in Palmetto.

	H:	They knew they had land that they could move to here.



	B:	There’s plenty of land here, but it working down there. They was doing good. H:	Until that happened.

	B:	Right. And then they came back home. And when they came back home, they came to Fort McCoy and then Harleen’s grandparents, they lived in Fort McCoy. See, it was a lot of Priests. The Priests at Fort McCoy, they were big cattle





people. It was open range then, and cows everywhere. People in the cars, they had to wait for the cows to get off the road. And you mustn’t hit the cows out here, because you would start something.

	H:	Roosevelt was telling me about that this morning and that they frequently did hit the cows and lots of busted-up cars.

	B:	Yeah, right. You mustn’t hit those cows though.



	H:	So, they came back to Fort McCoy—What was their connection with the priest then?

	B:	My mom. They had a little house on premises and my mom went to work. Daddy was looking for work, so mom and Michelle—Oh wait, that’s right, and they had my grandmother with them too. My grandmama was there, I was named after Rebia. My daddy’s grandmama. She came to live with him while he was down South. So, they all came back up. And so, they lived in that little bitty house until they could do better. And my mom, she cooled and nursed Harleen’s mama.

	H:	Ah.



	B:	Which is Laura, Laura Priest.



	H:	And that’s how you got to meet Harleen and how you got to be friends? B:	Yes.

	H:	Isn’t that interesting. Now, you’re older than Harleen but you remember her



from back then—



	B:	Oh yes. I remember her mama. H:	Right, probably better.

	B:	Laura Priest. And let’s see, I was a baby then when they came back—





	H:	They didn’t move back onto the family property, they moved to the Priest



property?



	B:	I’m getting to that.



	H:	I know, but I mean, when they first came back their first house was there in Fort McCoy.

	B:	Yeah, they was up in Fort McCoy. And that’s where I met Edmond, he was a baby, and I was a baby. Because his mother worked for the Cooks. And the Cooks was on one side of the little street, and the Priests just the opposite. And my mom and Edmond’s mom, they were good friends.

	H:	Isn’t that neat?



	B:	And that’s why we met. H:	Just as young kids.

	B:	Later, my dad found the cabbage in his line of work, and he started loading right here in Ocala. And they moved to my grandmother’s house until he could build a house. My grandfather, he was from Missouri, he was a jack-of-all-trades. So, he helped my daddy build our first house, which was across the road—facing the road. The highway was here then, and I remember my dad—He didn’t buy the roofing, he went out in the woods and cut trees down. And so, we would know that he would cut those trees—there’s a way that you can cut out shingles.

	H:	Shingles, oh certainly.



	B:	Shingles, okay. Because I remember my daddy would—I don’t know what you call it—

	H:	Drawknifing.





	B:	Drawknifing. Doing the shingles out. And that was the top, the top of the house was shingles. And of course, the other part of the house was used alone because it was the old house something or another that he bought. And they tore down the old house and they brought it here on the highway and that was our first house.

	H:	Do you remember then moving from Fort McCoy back to your first house?



	B:	No. I don’t remember. But I remember staying with my grandmama. After I got there, I can remember my grandpa, my grandma, I can remember them.

	H:	What kind of people were they? Tell me what you remember about them.



	B:	My grandmother was kind of heavy-set. The lady. Now, this was on my mama’s side now, not my dad’s side. The one that lived in Fort—went back to Georgia, the one that lived in Fort McCoy that came to Palmetto with them. She got sick and she moved back where her daughters was, and she passed. But my grandmother on my mother’s side, she was a heavy-set dark lady. Loved to work in her garden, I remember her garden just us playing. She could grow the greens, great big, tall greens with great big leaves. I remember that, and I can remember the corn and things.

	H:	Did she do the cooking for the family?



	B:	My grandmother? Yes, oh yes. She was a good cook. And she was well trained by the time she raised thirteen children [Laughter] that she had to cook for. And I remember I think she took in washes for people, I believe, because I remember her washing clothes a lot. And I remember the yard, she didn’t let grass grow in the yard. The grass was clean, dirt, I remember her sweeping it.





	H:	Did not have chickens? B:	Yeah.

	H:	She did have chickens? Free-range chickens?



	B:	She had chickens. The chickens was running loose. H:	That’s what I meant.

	B:	I know she had what they called a smokehouse, she had two of those. One seemed like they smoked wheat in and the other one was for canning vegetables. I remember the jars of vegetables and jelly and stuff in one of them.

	H:	What was your relationship like with her?



	B:	Oh, I was her darling. She had other grandchildren, but I was the youngest and I was her darling.

	H:	And you knew that.



	B:	That’s what she called me. Oh yes. [Laughter] And my step-grandaddy too. I was his baby too. He was dear to me.

	H:	How far—You say your dad built a house— B:	Yeah, it was right next to the highway here.

	H:	How far was that from your grandmother’s house? B:	I would say about six city blocks, maybe.

	H:	But you would walk over there all the time?



	B:	Oh yeah, I would walk. It was a little creek in between but it wasn’t a big creek in between. Because there’s farming land all in between it too and on the other side.

	H:	Did your folks do a lot of meals together, then? Certainly, on Sundays.





	B:	Oh, Sunday, yes. We’d all go to grandma’s after church. She would have pies, I remember. It seems like I remember pies, all kinds of pies. They had the wood stove.

	H:	That’s what I was wondering, what she cooked ‘em in.



	B:	It would warm up the food. I remember I was the one that would always go with Grandmama in the kitchen because the kitchen was made—At that time, it wasn’t connected to the house.

	H:	That’s what I heard. What do they call it? A summer kitchen or something like that so it didn’t heat up the house.

	B:	Something like that. Yeah, it was a little covered walk that joined the kitchen to the house. And I was always the one to go in with Grandmama to the kitchen first. And I’d guess I call myself a helper, all the others are in the other part, the living room, talking and everything. And then she’d bring out the food and say, “Darling, go tell them to come on now!” And I remember going in and telling them, “Okay, it’s ready, come on!”

	H:	That’s neat!



	B:	Yeah, that’s old memories.



	H:	So how many kids were in your family?



	B:	My mama only had the one: me. I’m the only child. H:	So, you were the darling, but you had cousins?

	B:	Oh yeah, I had cousins too.



	H:	But you were the only one in your family, so you were special in many ways. B:	Yes.





	H:	And how old were your cousins? B:	They were older than I was.

	H:	They were older, because your mother was the youngest.



	B:	Right, I was the last one. Later on, the Lord just fixed it where a cousin finished school and he was a Baldwin—a lot of the Baldwins used to live around here. He came back—He lived on his mama and daddy’s place, and he had finished school, so he was assigned a principal at Anthony. And you can go the Anthony through Burbank.

	H:	Right, sure.



	B:	He was a principal there.



	H:	So, he finished school, meaning he finished what school? B:	Finished college. He went to college later on, you know. H:	So where did he go? How did he get—?

	B:	I don’t know.



	H:	So, he went to school out here somewhere? B:	During Mama’s time, he went to school.

	H:	He went to high school and then went to college somewhere? B:	Must’ve been Tallahassee, I guess. That’s what I’m thinking.

	H:	Well, if it was your uncle it wouldn’t have been Tallahassee because that was a women’s college for the longest time.

	B:	No, no, no.



	H:	Oh, not Florida State, you’re talking about A&M maybe? B:	A&M. What is it—Florida A&M.





	H:	He went to A&M and got some kind of teaching degree and came back and was principal?

	B:	Principal at Anthony, one year. And I would walk down to his road, catch him in the morning, and go to school.

	H:	So, is that where you started school there?



	B:	No, I started where the club was, with that two-story building. H:	Right, you started there—

	B:	And then I went to the little school right here. I think I was in third grade when that passed because I was in the fourth grade when I went to Anthony. So alright, one year, he was principal there. The next year they moved him to Fort McCoy, principal.

	H:	Oh, and he became principal?



	B:	And he became principal of Fort McCoy. And he came right by my door—that was good—and I caught him and went to school there.

	H:	And that’s when you got back with Edmond together then?



	B:	Back together with Edmond, right. So, when I finished there, then we had no way of getting to school because they hadn’t put buses out for us. So, Edmond’s dad, he took his car. He had three children. He had a boy. He had Edmond, that was the oldest one, Bill, and then he had a girl named Lottie who was a little older than me. And then it was Edmond. So, he fixed his car up and all the children that fished, along with the oldest boy, they got in that car and that was our school bus.

	H:	He told me that! But you got to ride with him too.





	B:	Yeah, I was in the third group. Bill’s group was first, and Lottie’s group was second that finished and then I was the last group, the third group. Edmond, he was one year behind me, but he sent Edmond along because there wasn’t nothing but girls in the car. So, he sent Edmond along, his daddy told him, “You gon’ be the man of the car.” [Laughter] And so Edmond was the only boy in the car, and he was the youngest with all the girls and we went to school at Howard. We finished at Howard, yeah.

	H:	And he said—I thought his last two years he had to live in Ocala because there was no transportation.

	B:	He did, he did. Because the last one year I had to live— H:	You lived in Ocala too. That was my question.

	B:	See, his sister—After the boy finished, he went to King College to live. Then Lottie, his sister, drove the car. And after Lottie finished, then there wasn’t nobody to drive the car then.

	H:	So, both of you lived—



	B:	At [inaudible 37:23], yeah.



	H:	And you finished one year and he lived two years there. Did you stay with the same person?

	B:	No, I had a cousin living in Ocala, so I lived with her.



	H:	Okay, his second year he lived with his aunt, I believe is what he told me. But the first year he lived with somebody else, I think.

	B:	He had an aunt. I don’t know whether it was the principal’s son and Edmond were good friends too. It was somewhere along in there I think. I don’t remember





whether it was at the principal’s house or what, the first year he stayed there. But I know he lived there—

	H:	And how common was that for people that lived out here? Most folks, I guess, dropped out, but there were quite a few folks that went and lived with somebody else and finished at Howard?

	B:	Only those that went along with me, they lived with somebody else. They all finished high school.

H:  They all finished high school! B:  Yeah, those that went along. H:  Boys too? Not just girls?

B:  It was just the girls, the boys dropped out. H:  That’s what I thought.

	B:	That’s how that was. The dad sent Edmond along, he was the only boy that was going to high school. The rest of them, they dropped out and went to work.

	H:	He said that his folks made it clear they wanted him to graduate from high school.

	B:	Right, that’s right.



	H:	And then the older brother went to Payne, and he ended up going to Payne too. While he was still at Howard in his senior year, and you had already graduated from Howard--?

	B:	I went to BCC, Bethune-Cookman [College]. H:	That’s in Daytona, right?

	B:	Yes, in Daytona.





	H:	And how did you work that out? Did that cost money and you had to work somewhere?

	B:	Yes, well, my mom and dad was just like his mom and dad. They said they didn’t want us to have to come up like they did. I remember my dad, they was farming, and they was out in the field, I was out there with them. And so, whatever I was doing, Daddy told my momma, he said, “Send the baby back to the house.

Haven’t you got something for her to do? She can’t do this kind of work.” I was out there complaining. [Laughter] “Send her back!” He said, “She should just cook or something.” [Laughter] And so they decided when I was real young that they wanted me to go to school. And so, when I finished, Momma didn’t ask me,, “Do you want to go to college?” She said, “Which college do you want to go to in Florida?” She told me that I was going.

	H:	And they were gonna make it work financially, however—? B:	Yeah, they worked hard and sent me to Bethune-Cookman. H:	And you lived in a dormitory? Where did you live?

	B:	I lived in a dormitory.



	H:	What was that like as a country girl, leaving Fort McCoy and going to Bethune Cookman?

	B:	Oh, it was fun.



		H:	It was fun, from day one? B:		I enjoyed it.

	H:	No fears, no worries, no anything?





	B:	No, no, I enjoyed it, I enjoyed my college life. I didn’t get really serious about it until I did two years. You could graduate if you had enough credits, you could stop at two years and you could teach.

	H:	Oh, at that time—?



	B:	After two years, you could teach. So, when I came home after two years, Momma was expecting me to go back. I said, “Mom, it’s so hard on you and Daddy.” I said, “Why don’t you all take a break? Let me help you all some at home.” And so, she said, “Well, you gonna go back the next year.” I said, “Okay, I’ll go back the next year.” And so, a friend of mine, she done two years and she got a job at Orange Spring—I’m trying to think, where did I go first? No, that wasn’t Orange Spring that time. That was a little bit later on. Anyway, they needed somebody at Fort McCoy and so one of my friends said, “All you got to do is go down to the school board—”

	H:	In Ocala?



	B:	Yeah and tell them that you want a job, and they’ll give you a form to fill out, because you had your two years and however many credits you got. And I think I mailed it to Tallahassee—I don’t know whether I mailed it—anyway, a certificate came back for me, and I taught at Fort McCoy.

	H:	This would have been the late [19]40s then?



	B:	Yeah, you’re right. I taught there; I believe it was two years. H:	You came back to help your parents—





	B:	I forgot one thing. When I was down at Bethune-Cookman the second year, I got a telegram. And I got a telegram from my boyfriend, who was in Ocala. That telegram said, “Will you marry me?”

	H:	Oh! Was this somebody you went to Howard with, I guess?



	B:	No, I didn’t go—because he was in the Army at that time. But I had met him. H:	So, you get a telegram: “Will you marry me?”

	B:	Yeah. And so, when I came home, I married him in March of that year, the next year, I got married. And so, then I didn’t go back to school like I had promised my mom, because I got married.

	H:	Oh! But this is still after your two years.



	B:	I had the two years. I had forgotten about that.



	H:	So, when you came back from Bethune Cookman and you were gonna help your folks out, did you spend most of that year helping your folks and then started teaching or did you start teaching pretty soon?

	B:	That summer—Let’s see, I got a job, I think, at Ocala. Yeah, that’s what I did, I got a job and then I got married. That was the following year. So, I didn’t go right back to school. After I married, then I really didn’t go back to school for a while.

	H:	But then you started teaching?



B:  I started teaching, I taught two years. I’m trying to think—Was it two years or one year? I believe it was two years. But anyway, I had gotten married then. And then my first child was born. That delayed me from going back.

H:  You stayed home, that was after the two years? B:  Right.





	H:	Let’s talk about the two years first. What was that like? What grades did you teach?

	B:	Let’s see—What grades was it? How many teachers was out there? At Fort McCoy, it was three teachers.

	H:	Three teachers and eight grades.



	B:	I had the third and the fourth grade, I was the middle. Because we had first grade, second grade teacher, then it was going to eighth grade. It was going to eighth grade, and there was another teacher for the upper class, as we called them.

	H:	And because you had grown up here and that was Fort McCoy, you may not have known all those families as well as you knew the folks out here. So, the kids in your class, did you know them and their parents?

	B:	The ones over at Fort McCoy? Well, I went to church up there. H:	Oh.

	B:	So, I knew the community well. They accepted me well, yeah. At PTA, the parents would work real well with me. Later on, it was only me up there.

	H:	So, you had two years— B:	Yeah, two years.

	H:	And then you and your husband had your first child?



B:   Yeah, we had children. We started having children. And they kept me out, I didn’t go back to school for a while. And then it became you had to have four years; the law changed. Then my mama started to say, “You need to go back to school and





get your four years.” And so, I had a little break then from having children, because I got four girls. I went back to school—

	H:	You had had four before you went back to school, or you had four all together?



	B:	My last baby was a baby when I went back to school. The last one was a baby when I went back.

	H:	And how did you go back to school? You were living here—



	B:	Some of my classes I took, teachers that had finished and had to get more, they had—Let’s see, they had cars that they would group together and go back and take a certain amount every week. We’d go back in at night, leave in the afternoon and we’d come down to Daytona at night. And they would have classes at night at the college, and you could further your education that way by getting more credits.

	H:	So, you commuted? In other words, you’d go to Daytona and come home the same day?

	B:	Oh yes, yes.



	H:	Oh my goodness. That’s a lot of driving!



	B:	The last year that I went and stayed—I’m trying to think, did I have to stay the whole year? I think I just stayed a semester just to graduate, because I had enough credits I could do it in a semester. And so, I did have to leave my husband and my children at home.

	H:	That was my question. So, your husband did a lot of the parenting for your kids?



	B:	Oh yeah, and then when I stayed down there he would come down on the weekend. That’s the way I graduated. That was in [19]56, when I graduated.





	H:	Finally finished and had four children at that time— B:	Yeah, I had four children.

	H:	And still living in the same house that you and your husband—



	B:	No, it was my uncle had this old house where he lived where I am right now, he had left him and his wife for years—I don’t know how many years it was that he had been gone—but he went to South Carolina, Charleston. And started working on the ship with the ships and things in South Carolina. And so, my mom, I told her, “Mom,” because my husband had built a house before I finished school. It was a little house. I had seen a little house somewhere where we was travelling, and it was a small house. And I said, “Oh, that’s so cute. I’d like to have a little house like that.” And so down the road, just before you get to this house is a big, nice house on the right-hand side.

	H:	Before you come to this one?



	B:	Before you come to this one. I know you probably noticed— H:	From the north, you mean?

	B:	No, from the south.



	H:	I didn’t notice it because I’ve been coming from here.



	B:	Just before you get to this house on the right-hand side, that’s where my husband built me a little house. Because that was our property too then, because my mama sold that.

	H:	And that’s the house he built for you that was like the one you had seen?



	B:	Yeah, like that. And he had never built a house before. He was a town boy; he wasn’t no country boy. But his dad—





	H:	He built a house while he’s raising the four children while you’re working and going to school? Wow!

	B:	Right, and he’s working Silver Springs. H:	Those were busy days!

	B:	Yeah, it sure was. Him and Roosevelt, he got Roosevelt a job at Silver Springs. H:	Roosevelt told me that this morning.

	B:	Yeah, really.



	H:	And he said that’s who he trained with. B:	Yeah, that’s right.

	H:	For six months or some long—I was surprised how long the training was. B:	I just didn’t think he could do it. He said he was gonna do it, he did.

	H:	Wow, so he’s working at Silver Springs, he’s raising two kids, you’re working in town and going to Bethune-Cookman, and your kids are growing up, and somehow it all works?

	B:	Yes, it all came together somehow or another. And I remember he built that little house because Granddaddy lived in the house over across the road. He’s dead and gone now, but he used to ride a big horse around. And so, he came down when he was building the house. He said, “You done this, you don’t know how to put this—” He said, “Well did you go to school for this?” My pa said, “No, I didn’t go to school for this but I’m doing it.” And so, we lived in that little house for a while. And after I finished in 1956 when I came home, I was graduated then, I was—Let’s see, where was I then? Am I getting ahead of myself? I got a job at Orange Spring. One of my friends that was in school with me, she got the job first





at Orange Spring. And she said it was so inconvenient because she didn’t have a car to come all the way from Ocala to Orange Spring. And she had to get people to bring her out. So, she wanted to change jobs and she said she talked with me, said, “You ready to work? You want to work?” I said, “Yes! Of course.” I know I needed to work.

	H:	And you had already taught for two years, and you enjoyed that. B:	And she knew I lived out here.

	H:	Sure.



	B:	And so, she said, “It’ll be more handy for you. You could get it.” I say, “Yeah, my grandaddy got a car and I’m sure they’ll let me use the car.” And that’s how I got the job in Orange Spring. One-room school, and I was what you call a teaching principal. And so, I was the janitor, I was the nurse, and then I was the teacher and the principal.

	H:	And the guidance counselor.



	B:	Everything! That’s when I worked at Orange Spring.



	H:	And how many kids did you have? Do you remember? Officially, what grades were they in?

	B:	I didn’t have many children, but I had so many grades. First grade, second grade, third grade—

	H:	That’s what I mean. How many kids all together were in that school at that time? B:	I know it went as far as the eighth grade.

	H:	In one room.



	B:	One is this grade, two or three in another grade—





	H:	So, it was a normal size class but in lots of different grades?



	B:	Yes. But it wasn’t a whole lot of children. It was about—let me think, it’s so far back. It was in the teens.

	H:	That’s still a lot of kids with different grades!



	B:	Yeah, that’s what made it hard. Trying to get around to all the different grades.



And so, I taught at Orange Spring. Let’s see, did I do two years there? I think. But anyway, I had—I’d done bus driving too, at the same time. I had to drive the school bus. One of the school board members came to me and asked me, could I drive a bus? And I told ‘em, I’d never drove a bus before. I said, “I can drive a car and I can drive my daddy’s truck, but I don’t know about a bus.” They said, “Well we want you to do it. We want you to take the children down on the river.”

	H:	These are Black kids or White kids?



	B:	Black. Integration hadn’t started. “We want you to drive a school bus.” And I said, “Well I don’t know if I can drive a school bus.” “You’ve got to get a special license. But you can do it.” [Laughter] The school board member living in Orange Spring, I think it was—

	H:	The school board itself—There was one school board but a segregated school system?

	B:	Yes.



	H:	And the school board was probably all White, I would imagine?



	B:	Oh yes. Anyway, they carried me, and they told me to go to town, where to go and everything, and I had to take the test. I had never taken a test before





because I started driving when I was twelve years old, and I didn’t have to have no license, nothing then.

	H:	Really?



	B:	Yes, I started real early driving a car. So, this was my first test. And so, I went down there, and I took the test the first time.

	H:	To drive a school bus.



	B:	Yes, full-sized, it wasn’t one of the little ones. It wasn’t short. And I had to take a written test. Alright, so I took the written test and I missed three on the test.

Alright, that was one too many. So, they gave me a book, they put me in a special room. He said, “See what you missed, it was something about—” What was that about? I forgot what it was now. But anyway, he turned to the page where it tells you about the signs or something like that, it was. So, I went in that room, and I stayed about thirty minutes like this. And they say, “You want to try it again?” So, I tried to written test again and I passed that time, I got ‘em all right. So, the next thing, he want me to go out on a run with it. We got the big ol’ school bus and I looked at that bus and said, “Oh.” That’s what I say to myself. “That big ol’ thing?!” [Laughter]

	H:	I can go forward but don’t try to go backwards! [Laughter]



	B:	So, I got in it, and he got in and was sitting in the back, told me where to go— H:	I’m sure it was a standard transmission, with the clutch—

	B:	And you’re shifting gears. And at the railroad, I remember, I stopped at the railroad, done that alright, went on, and then he told me to turn around that big bus. And when he told me to turn around, I just went, “How in the world am I





gonna do this?” [Laughter] I managed it! I was surprised at myself. And then when I turned around, on the side there was—I’m thinking of the street, because the street runs—What’s the name of that street? It comes out by the railroads, it comes out and then it comes back into Silver Springs Road. But anyway, it’s a little shopping center sitting over there right on the side of the road. He goes, “Turn in there, turn in the shopping center.” Alright, when you come up you come up and come back into the road, and that was the railroad down there. And it was deep! [Laughter] And I looked at that, I said, “Now I got to be sure I don’t get on to the edge.” But I came on back, I turned it around. I came on back, he said, “You did it!” I said, “That man sitting in the back, wasn’t he scared?” [Laughter] I would have been scared to sit up there in the back with somebody that had never drove a school bus before. But I managed it the first time. So, I drove the school bus every morning, got up early, drove down that road almost to the river, picked up the family down there, they had quite a few of ‘em. They had about four. The Ocklawaha River goes around it.

	H:	Goes around it.



	B:	And it comes back—Yeah. And so, I got them on the bus, and I would drive to Fort McCoy. They moved the school there, to Fort McCoy. They picked up that little school and brought it to Fort McCoy. That little one-room school.

	H:	Oh, the Orange Spring School, they brought to Fort McCoy?



	B:	Yes. Right, because there wasn’t as many children then and the old building got old, too.

	H:	Okay and so that replaced the old building?





	B:	Right, there wasn’t as many children going to Fort McCoy so they cut the amount of children down, so we just had that one room. One-room school in Fort McCoy.

	H:	So, the kids that you drove on the bus were the same kids that you had in your class?

	B:	Right. [Laughter] And I had to go to Orange Spring and pick up the children that I taught in Orange Spring. I had to bring them to Fort McCoy. So, I came from Ocklawaha River down on the river there and went straight to Orange Spring.

Then come back to Fort McCoy and had to get out and teach.



H:  I thought I was following when you said you were the principal and the teacher and the janitor and the guidance counselor and whatever else but also the bus driver!

B:   And then became a bus driver the next year.



H:   So that was a long day for you and those kids, particularly for you. B:   When I got home, I just fell out on the sofa. Every day afternoon— H:  Where did the bus—

	B:	I didn’t last. Let me tell you how long I lasted. Know who I talked into driving that school bus for me? My mama. I said, “Mom, that’s too much for me. I’m too tired. Then I got to cook for my husband when I get through! I’m just wore out.” And she said, “I can’t drive a school bus!” I said, “Momma, yes you can. You drive daddy’s truck.” I said, “That’d be what you’re doing, it’s easy for you to drive the school bus, you’ll have time to rest in between.” I said, “You’re washing clothes for people.” I said, “You are doing that kind of work and kitchen work along in people’s houses.” I said, “This is a whole lot better. You’d be helping your





daughter out.” [Laughter] So I took her into the school board and introduced my momma and I said, “She can drive the school bus for me.” I told them it was too much, I said, “I don’t want to drive the school bus anymore.” And so, they said, “Well, she can drive it and get her license.” I took her on down there, she passed the test, first go around because I told her what to study and everything. She passed the first go around, and she drove the school bus for twenty-five years until she retired.

	H:	And did the bus stay at your place then? B:	At my mom’s.

	H:	That’s what I mean. In other words, when you drove it, it stayed at your place?



	B:	It stayed at my mom’s. I’d have to come up because my house was a little bit father down. And that’s where they dug out for the road. So, it was a good place.

	H:	And every once in a while she’d have to fill up the gas tank. But basically, that was her bus, it just lived there.

	B:	Right. So that made it better for me, I could handle that.



	H:	So, you’re back in Fort McCoy in the one-room schoolhouse—



	B:	Back teaching principal again. Doing everything in that one room. H:	And you stayed there how many years?

	B:	I can’t remember how many years, but they moved me to Citra, they closed the Fort McCoy school.

	H:	Oh, after they closed it. So, you were there— B:	Until they closed. And then the Citra.





	H:	And so, you would have had Roosevelt and James and Oscar at that—You had all three of those guys, right?

	B:	I taught them at that first building, Roosevelt, when they had the three-room school at Fort McCoy.

	H:	Okay, those first two were—They were gone by the time you came back. I got you. And then you went to Citra?

	B:	And then I went to Citra, teaching principal again. At Citra. H:	Also a one-room schoolhouse?

	B:	They moved my little school—that one room school—picked it up, took it to Citra. H:	The same school that had been at Orange Springs and then came to Fort

McCoy?



	B:	The same school.



	H:	So, you moved three times but took the school with you? B:	In that same room.

	H:	That is unheard of!



	B:	Yes, and they had a school in Citra, they had two rooms already. So the other teachers used the two rooms, and I used that same room that sat beside it.

	H:	Okay, you were principal and teacher, and they were the other two teachers, I got you.

	B:	Okay, we go, and we teach there for a while and the county decided they would build a brand-new school in Sparr. And guess who they got for the principal?

Edmond Folder. [Laughter] Yeah! He became the principal at Sparr.



	H:	And he came from where? I forget, he came from--?





	B:	Belview Santos.



	H:	Belview Santos.



	B:	That’s where he came from. And so they took Fort McCoy—And, of course, we already had Orange Spring at Fort McCoy—We took Citra, we took Anthony, and Spar and put them all in the new school.

	H:	But the new school is still for Blacks in Sparr.



B:  Yeah, right. So they bussed them in then. They had busses. I was the first bus driver for this area. I was the first woman that drove a school bus for this area, and then my mom. And then mom started bussing them in from there to Sparr and then—

H:  She was picking everybody up and taking them all to— B:   And the high school at Defensly.

H:   To Sparr and Defensly.



B:   That’s right.



	H:	So she stayed with it for a long time.



	B:	I stayed at Sparr until—I enjoyed my work at Sparr, I really did. I enjoyed it. It’s a new school. I stayed there until integration and then my first principal under integration was Mr. Archibald.

	H:	And where was that?



	B:	He lived in Fort McCoy. Fort McCoy was Fort McCoy then, it was really down the road—What’s the next little place?

H:   Not Eureka—



	B:	Yeah. Eureka, he lived down in that area.





	H:	I had no idea he lived down there.



	B:	Yeah, that’s where he lived. One day, I had just taken my kids out for PE, and I came by the office, and I saw a tall, young White fellow was sitting in the principal’s office. And he’s sitting with his legs crossed and here’s Principal Edmond and they were talking. I had no idea that they were talking about me. So I went on back to my classroom. That afternoon, the principal called me to the office—

	H:	Principal meaning Edmond Ford?



	B:	Yeah, Edmond Ford. And I went to the office, he said, “I got some news for you.” I said, “Yeah, what is it?” He said, “Mr. Archibald wants you to come and teach at his school. Did you see the man sitting in my office?” I said, “Yeah, he wants me to come to his school? He’s at Fort McCoy.” He said, “Yeah. You know, they’re integrating now.” I said, “Yeah I know but do I have to go?” Because I was satisfied and comfortable and everything. He said, “Yes,” but said, “You’ll like it.

He’s a very good fellow, I know him.” And so that’s how I got to Fort McCoy. And he was just like Edmond too, he was a very good principal.

	H:	And my understanding form Roosevelt this morning was his child came the same year that you came?

	B:	That his child was born?



	H:	No, Roosevelt said his child came to the Fort McCoy integrated school— B:	Oh! Yes. He had two boys. Right, I taught both his boys at Fort McCoy.

	H:	So you came the same year. So, you had to deal with what I’ve heard other Blacks deal with, leave a situation where you’re with friends and you’re





comfortable and you like it to this unknown. “What the heck is this integration stuff all about?”

	B:	I didn’t know exactly what to expect and everything. Well, he made the change very comfortable and easy.

	H:	The difference, I think, must be—Again, listening to Horleen and Roosevelt this morning, you knew the community and it wasn’t like you didn’t know some of these people already anyhow. It wasn’t as totally unknown as it might have been for those folks in Ocala.

	B:	You’re right about that. The parents of the children I was teaching, most of them got to know me and they were nice. Real nice and at PTA meetings and everything. We got along just fine, and I didn’t have any problems.

	H:	Roosevelt said the first year that there were some parents who decided this was not okay—

	B:	—and they didn’t go. They didn’t send the children. Sure. I heard that. H:	They didn’t fuss but they just pulled out.

	B:	You’re right. Yeah. I heard that.



	H:	That happened everywhere, but in terms of what actually happened, he said no confrontations. He didn’t remember anything.

	B:	Those kids under Mr. Archibald, whatever they experienced at home or were taught at home, he didn’t allow it at the school.

	H:	And you felt supported not only by him but also by the parents of your kids? Did you feel welcomed and supported by the parents?





	B;	Yes, I did. Yeah, those that participated and would come, and we’d have different things at the school, and we always had a big Halloween to-do in every classroom, I’d have people come and help me.

	H:	And at that point you probably had a single grade with just kids in that grade or did you have multiple grades there too?

	B:	We had single grades then. Because I think my first year I had third grade.



	H:	And first time probably with new schoolbooks because I hear the Black schools always got the hand-me-down books.

	B:	Right, we experienced a lot of new books. That was great too.



	H:	How about the faculty? You had been comfortable with the faculty at Sparr, maybe not because they were Black but because—

	B:	I had known them for a while, too, because I was in Citra, so I had two teachers go along with me.

	H:	To Sparr?



	B:	Yeah, to Sparr.



	H:	How about when you came back here, did you get along with the faculty too? B:	Oh yes. We got on good. The faculty was great too. The Rosses, they lived at Fort McCoy, they made me feel real comfortable. The beginning of school and

everything, they would go home for lunch sometimes, they’d invite me to go along with them. We got along.

	H:	By that time when you came back and started teaching at the integrated school, how old were your own kids?





	B:	Let’s see, I had my grandchildren then. I think my grandchildren were two or three years old.

	H:	So your kids were already grown by then?



	B:	Yes, or they were going to a high school. My other kids. My baby girl had just— How’d that happen, let me think—The baby girl went to Fort McCoy, but I don’t remember her being there when I was there. She had gone to Sparr. But integration came, and my other girls, two was at Fesley—

	H:	With Roosevelt.



	B:	Yeah, and then they were transferred to Sparr, to the original White school. H:	So they went to Sparr during integration? That was their first school?

	B:	They started at Fesley.



	H:	But then they came back to Sparr during integration—



	B:	It was three of them. The third girl, she went to Sparr. I’m trying to think where was my baby girl going? Oh, she had left Fort McCoy and she was going to Sparr Elementary, that’s where she was going.

	H:	Which was also integrated. B:	That was the baby girl, yeah. H:	Through integration.

	B:	Right.



	H:	Okay.



	B:	So Fort McCoy—I’m trying to see how far it goes, because she was at that school at first and then they took her on to Sparr when it was integrating. And





then the following year that she went to Sparr, that’s when I went to Fort McCoy, that’s how it was. I couldn’t place right then what school she was going to.

	H:	What was their experience with integration? Did you remember. I know at least with high school, Horaleen said her daughters were upset because of the treatment some of the Black kids from Fort McCoy got when they went to North Marion.

	B:	Yeah, they finished at North Marion. Now, it was kind of rough at first. I remember that, because I heard through the grapevine that quite a few people in Fort McCoy was upset about integration. The telephone kept ringing and they was saying something about somebody had put the lights out or something up there. It was something going on, because I remember my husband saying, “You can expect anything.” And a few people came by on the highway and they shot, I remember that. I remember hearing the guns shoot. I don’t know whether they was aiming at any house or anything, but we heard the gunshots.

	H:	Just intimidating.



	B:	Yeah. But other than that—



	H:	I guess what Horaleen was talking about was the treatment that the Black kids got during integration when they went to North Marion.

	B:	It was—Yeah, because I remember they had a meeting about integration. I think they had a meeting at Sparr, and it was something about how they was being treated. I don’t know whether the Black kids walked out—Did Horaleen mention anything about?

	H:	No, she was talking North Marion. I think.





	B:	Yeah, it was North Marion, it wasn’t Fort McCoy.



	H:	Yeah, it wasn’t Sparr it was North Marion. She said that her daughter who had friends that had been friends in Fort McCoy, I guess they all went to North Marion—

	B:	Yeah, everybody went to North Marion.



	H:	In high school. Her daughters would come home feeling bad about the treatment that Black girls got at North Marion. But your girls were already passed—

	B:	No, they were going to school up there during that time.



	H:	Okay, but you don’t remember them bringing stories home?



	B:	All I can remember—I’m so old, she can tell it. I know they was having a problem, but I can’t remember just what all happened.

	H:	But whatever it was, it worked its way out.



	B:	It worked its way out. I do remember they was having a problem because I remember hearing they had a meeting about it, and I guess they went to the school board. Because my daughters, they got into the band and all that. My oldest girl, she became the pianist for the choir.

	H:	How did that work with transportation— B:	Okay, so they got—She got along alright.

H:   When they stayed after school, I guess stayed after school for band and that kind of stuff, would there be a second bus that would bring them home? How did they get back home back then?

B:   They managed to have it. The only time I heard them giving a ride to take you up there was when they was having something.





	H:	A performance or something?



	B:	Yeah, a performance. I had to take them up there.



	H:	The busses became integrated at the same time the schools became integrated?



	B:	Yes, right. That’s true. I can’t put my finger on any specific thing, but I know they was having problems at first. And that was at the high school. First, the elementary school, at least where I was, Mr. Archibald, he ruled that school.

	H:	How long did he stay there?



	B:	Let’s see, I don’t know how long he was there before I came either. It seemed like he was there about two years, and then he became the superintendent.

	H:	Right, I knew he became the superintendent eventually, but did he go straight from Fort McCoy to there or did he go somewhere else?

	B:	I’m trying to think, did he go somewhere else first?



	H:	I thought he was a high school principal somewhere before he became superintendent. Maybe not.

	B:	He may have, I can’t remember.



	H:	Dunn Woodly was before him and wasn’t Bill Fish before Dunn Woodly? Bill



Fish was in there somewhere.



	B:	Bill Fish was in there—Was it after Dunn Woodly?



	H:	Maybe that was it. I think Bill Fish was in there when I started. I was at Madison School for twenty-seven years.

	B:	What school were you at? H:	Madison School.





	B:	Madison School, okay. Yeah, I think the new one was in there after—When I started—What was the superintendent’s name, he was in there a long time. Who was the one before Dunn Woodly?

	H:	The only other name I know is Bill Fish.



	B:	Bill Fish. And I remember Dunn Woodly was something else in the school, because he come around to the schools. Because I remember he came to Sparr and he was working with the PE students. So I guess it was Bill Fish, but I can’t think—Mr. Webster. The first superintendent, seems like he was in there for a long time. I can’t think of his name.

	H:	So, clearly Skip Archibald did a good job at Fort McCoy. When he left, you stayed on, and you got a new principal?

	B:	Yes. Don’t ask me the names, I can’t think of the names of them. H:	Did things change, or things were still good?

	B:	No, they were still good. My whole time at Fort McCoy was good, I didn’t have no special problems at Fort McCoy. Mr. Archibald paved the way.

	H:	That’s neat. Do you ever keep up with any of your former students?



	B:	Let’s see, some of them—I know one was a sheriff, because he came by and visited me; I can’t think of his name. I’m trying to think—Some of the others, the names I remember. I can’t remember their names, but someone will remember me and see me and say, “Don’t you remember be, Mrs. Berry?” I say, “Now, you have to tell me who you are.” And then sometimes I can remember them, sometimes I can’t. I remember the one who was sheriff, I can remember the ones that lived up the road that I taught them, that’s where you get to Fort McCoy. And





I remember the mother, she would visit me, and she’d come in the classroom and ask me did I need some help or anything like that. She was the mailman for later on.

	H:	So you were there a long time. Were there many Black teachers there? B:	There was always some there, but not many at the time.

	H:	When you started, were you the only one?



	B:	I was the only one, but one came before the year ended. She was a counsellor, and she came from Sparr. She was under Mr. Folden too.

	H:	So, she was someone you knew from before too?



	B:	Yeah, and then later on, a teacher from Gainesville, she would ride with the reading teacher, she was White, and the other girl was Black. And she taught the fifth grade.

	H:	And they commuted from Gainesville?



	B:	They commuted from Gainesville. And then from Ocala, there was two. One from Santos, there was a teacher there. It was about five in all during the time I was there.

	H:	And when you came, it was a kindergarten through sixth? Through fifth, or no— B:	Through fifth. Fifth, that’s what it was.

	H:	Standard elementary then. You never had the sixth grade there. So they changed, right after integration they went from first or K through eighth to sixth.

	B:	Yeah, I guess they went and cut down—Because my daughter was there. But then she graduated from there and went to the Sparr school. So they must have cut it down before then.





	H:	That makes sense.



	B:	And then I taught there until I retired at Fort McCoy. H:	And how old were you when you retired?

	B:	Oh my goodness. That would’ve been about twenty years ago, I guess.



	H:	So you were in your seventies. So you worked late. My mother-in-law taught until she was seventy-two and had to leave because she was seventy-two.

	B:	Yeah, most of us, yeah. I’ve been retired so long. And I retired in [19]89. H:	In [19]89, okay.

	B:	I’m ninety-three now.



	H:	So if you were born in [19]26, that means, [19]89, you would have been sixty- three.

	B:	So that’s how old I was. I was in my sixties, yeah, because I had good use of myself.

	H:	And at that point, your kids were grown and had kids of their own. B:	At that time there wasn’t children—

	H:	Your kids were grown and had kids.



	B:	Oh, yeah. Grandchildren at the school up there, I had some grandchildren there. H:	While you were there you had grandkids?

	B:	Yeah, going to school. I had three.



	H:	That’s what I meant. Did you have them in your own class?



	B:	One was in my class. Let’s see, he took—Because we had another teacher to teach reading sometimes. Well, he was mostly in the other class. And one of them got killed during the same time I was at Fort McCoy, that was in the





[19]70s, must have been about [19]78 or [19]79. He got killed right out in front of my house. Got run over.

	H:	I was about to say, an automobile accident?



B:   Yeah, automobile. Ran over him. So I had to take some time off for that and then I had an operation, I took time off. And then I finished up until my retirement after that.

	H:	What did your husband do while you were teaching all those years? B:	While I was teaching he was a boat guide at Silver Springs.

	H:	That’s right, of course. He stayed all the way through your retirement or did—?



	B:	No because he got sick and started having a nerve problem. He had to retire early. I think he stayed there about twenty-two years though.

	H:	Did he love it like everybody else that I’ve talked to? B:	At Silver Springs?

	H:	Yeah, being a boat captain?



	B:	I think he enjoyed it. Until he got sick, then he didn’t enjoy it. H:	After you retired he had already retired—

	B:	He retired first.



	H:	And then you retired. And tell me about retirement, I know you spend a lot of time with your grandkids.

	B:	With my grandchildren, yes sir. I retired and I didn’t sub, I didn’t go back for anything but for my grandson’s PTA meetings. When I fully retired, I had left after thirty-three years. But the thirty-three years wasn’t bad, and I think I learned to





love my kids. My easiest time was when I went into a special program at the reading program. That was, I think I enjoyed that.

	H:	Probably smaller groups?



	B:	Smaller groups, yeah. You had different ones coming in. If you had any problemed children, you didn’t have them all day. They come and they go.

	H:	When I worked in the early [19]70s as a juvenile probation counsellor, I realized the one thing that was common about all the kids that I worked with was not rich or poor, not big or small. The only thing in common about all my kids was that they had reading problems. And that’s how I got into teaching before I got into counselling, was going to the University of Florida and getting a reading degree and teaching reading. I only had one year at P.K. Younge, the lab school, where I had a pull-out program for reading. But I absolutely loved it.

	B:	I’d say that was the most lovable of all, although I loved the other kids. I got to know them, and I loved them.

	H:	Absolutely. And so your husband retired, he got to be a granddaddy full-time, you got to be a full-time grandmother.

	B:	One thing, I’m so glad I married a man that know how to cook. [Laughter] That came in real handy. After he retired.

	H:	So did he become the family cook then? B:	Absolutely.

	H:	So he did all of the cooking? Most of the cooking? B:	Most of it.

	H:	What were his special meals that—





	B:	Most anything. Before he retired from Silver Springs, he had a barbeque pit right outside our house.

	H:	I heard about that. The kids continued that, right?



	B:	Yes. Later on we turned it over to our son-in-law and he retired, he stopped doing it and everything.

	H:	So that was commercial? So that was mostly chicken and ribs then or what else?



	B:	And then people would bring, especially during the hunting time, they would bring stuff for my husband to barbeque for them, and they loved his barbeque sauce.

	Some people would come— H:	He’d make his own sauce?

	B:	He’d make his own sauce. So some people would have him make it by the gallons and they’d do their own barbeque, and you’d sell them the barbeque sauce. But during hunting season, that was the time he had a little trick to it. He’d make his fire—He built his own barbeque pit and would close it in—He had to go through some things with the county though. They wouldn’t let him open it up, he had to build a restroom and one for the women and one for the men. He did all that himself.

	H:	Just to sell on the street side? He didn’t have people coming and eating inside?



	B:	No, but just to come through the window. They made him do all of that before he could open, but he did it and he opened it up.

	H:	All these folks selling vegetables roadside, they don’t have bathrooms, do they? B:	That’s right.





	H:	But for some reason because he was selling meat or beef or who knows what, they had different rules. I’ve never heard of that.

	B:	We had one—what was he called—he was a county sheriff. We had one [laughter], I taught his granddaughter. His name was Boatright. [Laughter] He would keep an eye on everything, and he’d drive by slow. And so, my girls was teenagers, so they had friends coming in. So, they was going to the movies and friends came to pick them up. So somehow, he must’ve saw the car come out from the house. And they got down the road. He stopped ‘em and asked them questions and different things. I guess who owned the car and everything. [Laughter] So he found himself keeping watch over—I guess he wanted to see what was going on. I wasn’t no juke joint or nothing, we had no music or anything like that. It was straight barbeque. When I come home from work—It’s on the weekend—When I come home from work, I change my clothes and everything and I’d get out there to help my husband barbeque. He had a little secret; I’ll tell you what he would do. He would make his fire, use the oak wood—that’s all he used, oak wood—if he happened to give out, then he would use coal but mostly it was oak wood. And he had his meat and things all washed and ready and he had a big ol’ iron pit that covered everything. And so he’d throw his slabs on, it’d start cooking, alright. And then he take a little bit of his barbeque sauce, the liquid kind—because he had two kinds—the liquid he’d take it and pour a little over that fire, and the smoke would just come up. Oh, and the odor! Barbeque odors come out; they can smell it on the highway. And you can see the hunters, and everything put on brakes, you’d see lights. They’d turn around and come back.





	H:	Isn’t that interesting?



	B:	Yeah. He’d say, “You see, I told you they’d come back.”



	H:	There’s another Berry that I knew. The assistant principal at my school was



Roedea Berry, do you know—?



	B:	Yeah, I know Roedea Berry. Her older folks are from Fort McCoy. Yeah, was



Roedea Berry.



	H:	She was the one that told me about her husband doing barbeque. We’re not talking just pigs and cows and deer, she talked about possums and squirrels and coons and every kind of animal in the world. They would have these huge gatherings, and everybody would bring what they had. Did you all do that kind of stuff or more traditional?

	B:	They had brought goats. Let’s see, it seemed like to me somebody brought a coon down. But it was mostly pork. I think what they brought mostly was goat, I think.

	H:	Probably deer too, venison?



	B:	Oh yeah, I forgot about the deer. The hunters, yeah, that’s right, deer. And I think I remember one person brought a coon one time.

	H:	But that wasn’t a regular thing. B:	No.

	H:	I got the impression from her that whatever they had at gatherings— B:	Yeah, when they all would gather, yeah.

	H:	Whatever they had, that would go on the grill with everything else. I was wondering if you were kin to her.





	B:	No, but I know her. She’s related to Ford?. H:	So she is related to Ford.

	B:	Yeah, she’s related to Ford. Cousins or something, not real close related but they’re related.

	H:	I haven’t seen her in a long, long time but she’s a great lady. She’s got to be retired by now too, I’m sure.

	B:	She probably is, I haven’t heard or seen her in a long time. H:	I haven’t either. She left Madison Street and then—

	B:	She was a principal somewhere.



	H:	I think she went back to Belleview, I believe, where she had come from. B:	I believe it was down in that area that she was a principal.

	H:	That’s what I thought. She had come to Madison Street, she had been a guidance counselor, I think, at Belleview. Because a lot of her students would come back and visit her at Madison Street. How cool is that? These kids are coming all the way from wherever she was just to visit her after school.

	B:	Was she a principal at Chandler at one time? Seemed like I heard that, I’m not sure.

	H:	I didn’t know there was a school in Chandler.



	B:	That’s out there on the shores, Chandler. She’s probably retired by now.



	H:	A couple more questions, role models. Who did you look to as somebody that made an impression on you young that you wanted to—not necessarily be like, or people that were important to you growing up?





	B:	There was a teacher that I admired a lot that taught me in the little school out here—

	H:	At Daisy?



	B:	Yes, her name was Miller. Deborah Miller.



	H:	What do you remember about her? How did she make an impression on you?



	B:	Well, I remember her from when I was real small, it seemed like she was kind and I guess she would take up a lot of time with me. And I know she would come to my mother’s house and have to wait for somebody to come pick her up and everything. And I just adored her because she would talk with me. And she seemed to be a real nice person to me, I hadn’t really thought about it—

	H:	But your thought of becoming a teacher wasn’t until after you had already gone— Was that at Bethune-Cookman that you decided that teaching was a thing that you might consider? Or did you already know before—

	B:	When I first went to Bethune-Cookman, I thought I wanted to be a PE teacher.



That’s what—



	H:	Definitely a teacher though, you knew you wanted to be a teacher?



	B:	Yeah, I thought it was PE. But I found out I only liked PE for the games. I loved the games, any kind of games I loved. The other part, I didn’t care too much about. I didn’t care anything about—What is it Called? Where you stop the games and we went through like cheerleaders—

	H:	Gymnastics?





B:  Yeah, gymnastics. Getting all up on top of each other, I didn’t like that. But I liked dancing, I liked that in PE. I loved basketball, that was my favorite thing. I played basketball before I was really old enough to play.

H:   Did you play girl-rule basketball or boy-rule basketball?



B:   We played girls because when I started, the girls could go only half-court.



	H:	And they could only take so many steps, right? You could only do six steps or something like that.

	B:	One step, you could bounce the ball one time, I think. H:	Something like that.

	B:	Yeah, that’s what it was.



	H:	So you played that out here, did you play that—?



	B:	I started at Anthony, I was in third or fourth grade. I had never heard of basketball before. My cousin had just finished school and he brought it with him. That’s where I saw it. I was too little to play with the team, and he didn’t have nothing but a boys’ team. But once in a while, he let a few girls fill in that wanted to. And so I was always a tomboy, I climbed trees and things like that. There wasn’t many people living down here, and so my cousins were boys. And whatever they done, I do too. I’d shoot marbles, all that kind of stuff.

	H:	Roosevelt was talking about shooting marbles this morning. B:	Yes, I did it at Fort McCoy.

	H:	Did you go fishing and hunting too?



	B:	I’d go fishing by myself. Down in the creek, the creek was on our land. And I remember Daddy had a little old BB gun—this is an old-timey one—and I





remember going down to the creek and I’d see the turtle’s head come up, you know, and I would shoot it.

	H:	Would you bring home the turtle? B:	No, no, no. I didn’t hit nothing.

	H:	They were saying a slingshot, they used to— B:	Yeah, I remember.

	H:	With birds, did you do that too?



	B:	I tried that with my cousin, but I didn’t make much with the slingshot. He would make me a little slingshot, one of my cousins.

	H:	You could play along.



	B:	Yeah, he would tease me and show me how to box. Anything the boys done, I would try to do, because I didn’t have any girls to play with. One girl I had to play with and then she moved away. So I was a tomboy.

	H:	Okay, so you thought about being a PE teacher, when you went there did you have any professors that were role models for you?

	B:	In college? I can’t think of any one particular one in college. I can’t remember any particular one in college. I liked most of them, I think. Let’s see, I liked the library lady. I liked the—My PE teacher, yeah the one that taught the games, it was a man though. I remember him, I liked him. I liked the rest of them, but he would let me go out—In college, when we practiced with the football, boys and everything—so sometimes a few girls would go out and watch him, you know.

They had to run during the exercises. He would let me go out and run with the boys sometimes. [Laughter]





	H:	Could you keep up with them?



	B:	Some of them I could. I could do better than some of them. H:	Good for you.

	B:	I could hold out as long as they could, yeah, I remember that. He would let me do that. And he was also my basketball teacher too, and the PE teacher. I liked the games; he taught the games.

	H:	Do you keep up with a lot of people? I know you mentioned you just talked with Edmond; do you keep up with the teachers at Sparr? It sounds like you really liked teaching there. Do you keep up with any of those folks?

	B:	Yeah, some of them.



	H:	A lot of them are gone by now, I’m assuming.



	B:	Yes, they’re gone. One of them has moved down to Tampa, I’ve lost track of her.



That was Mrs. Kinsel, the one that came from Sparr to Fort McCoy, she was a good friend of mine. And the one that taught with me, she’s younger than I am, I understand, she’s in a home now. She was a Miller; her name was Juanita Miller. There’s so many of them have died now. My classmates, we used to keep up and we would have meetings and things like that, all my classmates are— They’re gone, just about.

	H:	Help me understand this, you don’t come across to me as ninety-three. You come across to me as late seventies or—[Laughter]

	B:	Thank you.



	H:	You’ve got grandchildren and they keep you going, but what else keeps you going? When I first met you, you’ve got this sparkle in your eye and you have the





same temperament that you ascribed to the teacher at Daisy that was so positively sweet.

B:  Thank you. Well, let me tell you this, my mother lived until she was one hundred and five.

H:   Wow.



B:  Pearl Redding, she was a school bus driver. She retired from driving the school bus and she lived to a hundred and five. She got to where she couldn’t see, she went blind, and she lived with me. Lived to a hundred and five. My dad lived until he was eighty-four.

H:   She just kept on going.



	B:	Yeah, just kept on going. My momma was alert until the last. H:	And you and she were good buddies?

	B:	Oh yeah. My mom, yes. I was the only one, so.



	H:	And stayed good buddies till the end, she lived with you until the end? B:	Oh yes. I was her little girl.

	H:	So in terms of role models, you didn’t think to mention her, but you didn’t need anybody else. You had your mom.

	B:	Oh! Yeah, you’re right. We was together all the time.



	H:	Because she was alert, she got to be a great-grandmother herself. B:	Yes, oh yeah. And she helped me with my kids.

	H:	Yeah.



	B:	That was the reason I was able to go back to school, oh yes.





	H:	Sure. Of course, I kept thinking your dad with the four kids and all he was doing, he had the help with your mom all day. Okay. I wasn’t even thinking at the time.

	B:	My dad was a good dad too. He stuck by us and whatever Pearl wanted me to do, he was right behind her and wanted the same thing for me. That’s the way it was, my dad too.

	H:	And your husband and you were good buddies, too, it sounds like. B:	Oh yeah, we teamed up together. We made a good team.

	H:	Absolutely.



	B:	Stayed together, we never did separate or anything like that. All for his girls. H:	There’s a certain joy that just comes out of you from the second I met you.

	B:	We had to work hard and everything, but we did it. He was the one who would venture out more than I was. When he had this house built for me, we moved from the little house to this house. I’ve been here ever since then. And he was the one. And I said, “We’re not able. We can’t do that.” He said, “Oh yes we can, too. We can do it.”

	H:	Did he build the place himself?



	B:	Yeah, helped with the foundation and everything, he dug the foundation himself. His dad was living then, he had an uncle that knew something about building and got it going. Then he got a builder to come over and finish it up.

	H:	Did you raise your kids mostly in this house then?



B:  Let’s see, my baby girl must’ve been about four when we came and the other girls was about nine—Well, this house has been built since [19]59, I believe it was.





	H:	After you had come back to Fort McCoy, then?



B:   I don’t remember anything when I was down at Palmetto, I was a baby then. H:   I meant in [19]56 is when you started back up here is what you were saying. B:  Oh, you’re talking about teaching?

H:   Yes.



	B:	Yeah because when I moved over to this part of the land it was just a small house and then my husband built a house farther down where that big house is at down there. And then he built this house and we moved up here. I told momma, I said, “Momma—[break in interview]

	H:	We’ll close up and I am gonna leave here and come up with a zillion more questions to ask but I think we’ve covered a lot of areas. Thank you so much for your time today.







[End of interview]





Transcribed by: Abby Lovett



Audited edited by: Heather Halak June 30th, 2021 Final-Edited by: Sandra Romero, July 2, 2021