AAHP 408; Richardson; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 408 Leoris Mercedes and Jackson Richardson African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by A.J. Donaldson on May 12, 2016

44 minutes | 28 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 408

Interviewee: Leoris Mercedes Jackson Richardson Interviewer: A.J. Donaldson

Date: May 12, 2016



	D:	All right, if you would please say your name and spell it for me? R:	Okay my name is Leoris M., for Mercedes—

	D:	Okay.



	R:	But I just use the M, Richardson. J Richardson. D:	Could you spell “Leoris” for us?

	R:	L-E-O-R-I-S, Leoris.



	D:	And Richardson, could you spell Richardson?



	R:	R-I-C-H-A-R-D-S-O-N. My maiden name is Jackson.



	D:	All right, okay well, my name is AJ Donaldson. I’m from the University of Florida. R:	AJ Donaldson. You said A.J.?

	D:	AJ.



	R:	Donaldson?



	D:	Donaldson.



	R:	D-O-N-?



	D:	A-



	R:	L-D-



	D:	S-O-N.



	R:	S-O-N.



	D:	All right. Okay so—



	R:	And your name is AJ Donaldson? D:	Yes, ma’am.

	R:	Okay, what that AJ stand for?







D:

It stands for Anthony Jr.

R:

Anthony. Okay, do you know Reverend J.D. Johnson?

D:

No ma’am. All right.

R:

Very good minister. He used to pastor here a long time ago.

D:

Oh really?

R:

He lived up on the hill. He pastors out from Gainesville and another church. I



forgot the name of it.

D:

Okay, his name was Reverend Johnson?

R:

Yeah his name is Reverend—what is it? It’ll come to me before—his first name.

D:

Okay, so I have a question for you is when and where were you born?

R:

I was born in Bland, Florida. Bland, that’s out from Alachua.

D:

Okay.

R:

Florida.

D:

Bland, Florida? Is that North or South? East?

R:

It’s North.

D:

North of Alachua?

R:

It’s about seven miles out.

D:

Okay, and when was that? Do you remember?

R:

When?

D:

When you were born.

R:

I was born?

D:

Yeah.

R:

Sure! I remember September.







D:

September?

R:

September 22nd.

D:

Oh my sister’s birthday is September 22nd.

R:

She is a sweet person.

D:

Okay.

R:

Beautiful sweet person. 1933.

D:

Alright.

R:

You may see it [19]32 but it’s [19]33. It doesn’t matter. That year doesn’t make a



difference. [19]32/[19]33 okay?

D:

Okay, okay. Who were your parents?

R:

My parents was—they called my dad “S.B.” for Simuel.

D:

Oh, S.B., okay. And the name was Samuel? Okay.

R:

No Simuel.

D:

Simuel.

R:

With an “I”.

D:

with an “I” okay.

R:

Simuel Jackson.

D:

Oh okay!

R:

And he had our father, our dad—I mean not father, my brother named Samuel-

D:

Oh you had a brother named Samuel?

R:

Yeah. He lived in Jacksonville a long time and had Simuel and Samuel.

D:

Okay.

R:

That was my uncle and my dad.







D:

Okay.

R:

My mom’s name was Mary.

D:

Mom was Mary?

R:

Mary Cherry.

D:

Mary Cherry? Okay [Laughter]. So last name Jackson as well?

R:

Well she was married—you know, she was a Cherrie before but just say Mary









D:

Jackson. She was married to my dad so Mary Jackson. That was her husband and wife. They called my dad SB.

Okay, so where did Richardson come from?

R:

That’s my husband. I’m married.

D:

Oh you’re married! Okay, okay.

R:

Yeah after I got out of high school and went to University of Florida.

D:

What did your parents do for a living?

R:

Farm.

D:

They were farmers?

R:

Yeah, my dad sent us to school often—and my sisters—I’m the youngest of four





D:

girls and two boys. It was six children.



Were you the youngest of the two brothers as well?

R:

I’m the youngest of all of them.

D:

Of all of them?

R:

All of the six.

D:

Did ya’ll grow up on the farm?





	R:	Well, yeah, but we didn’t live on the farm all of the time, but we knew we were farmers’ children, but we didn’t live on the farm all of the time.

	D:	Were they originally from Bland, Florida?



	R:	My dad was from Brancelet, but anyway they’re from Alachua, in this area. D:	Okay.

	R:	[Calls out to other person besides interviewer] Bonnie, come on through, baby. D:	I was wondering if they owned any property in this area.

	R:	Yes [To Bonnie:] Bonnie, he may want to interview you. You hear me? D:	I was wondering, did they own any property around here?

	R:	Yeah, in Bland my dad had a farm.



	D:	Oh, okay, they had a farm. Okay, they owned it and worked on the farm. What kind of products did they produce?

	R:	Tobacco was the main product and we grew veggies, beans and peas, that type of stuff.

	D:	Okay, were there a lot of Black businesses in town like that?



	R:	No, we were on a farm. We were out in the country. That’s the countryside. But the closest, you were talking about cities or towns, this is the closest. We lived approximately—do you know anything about this area?

	D:	No, ma’am.



	R:	Okay, well, I can’t say. I was gonna say if you knew anything about Bland area, that crossroad out there was—We were living near that. Our farm was directly West of where we live going back towards High Springs. The farm was over there.





	D:	Okay, so you grew up on the farm and then you eventually went to school at the University of Florida.

	R:	Yeah. First of all, I went to Bethune-Cookman College.



	D:	Okay, let’s start with elementary. Where did you go to elementary?



	R:	ACT: Alachua Elementary. It was a combination of Alachua—the schools were together. It was Alachua. I went to elementary school out in Bland.

	D:	That was ACT?



	R:	No, it was an old building. Well I just said I went to school out in Bland, elementary. F.E. Welch was my teacher, who is now a professor in this area.

	D:	He’s still a professor now?



	R:	No, he’s retired. He and his wife belongs here. His wife taught all of us music in high school.

	D:	Was that Mrs. Welch?



	R:	Yeah, Welch and her husband. They ever taught us in high school and [pause] yeah she taught us music. I was just trying to think of what grade she started teaching me, but it was like in about—before high school. She taught us in high school, but I knew during her time I was in high school, that she taught us. Miss Welch taught us all the basics of music. Yeah, she did, she started off teaching us—I don’t know if they teach kids that or not now. She taught [inaudible 8:00] my son and she taught ‘em all. She started off with that [sings] Do Re Mi Fa So La Ti Do! [Laughter]

	D:	[Laughter] Yeah!





	R:	You remember that, don’t you? So, I don’t think music teachers do that now. We learned all the basic stuff and I’m so happy that she taught us that way. Her husband, Fermen Welch, was my first grade teacher.

	D:	At the elementary out in Bland?



	R:	Out in Bland. He taught me in First Grade. He also taught my sisters, but I was the youngest and he taught me in First Grade. We walked to school and he would stop by and make sure that people didn’t bother us, because before we got to school by walking. There was a big prison camp over on our right going past the church, going out that way, but he would take care of us. He took care of the school kids and the people that had to walk that way. He would wait till all the students, the girls and everybody, we had a pond out there near the school.

What we called a schoolhouse pond. A lot of people was baptized in that pond. We use it for, it was all-purpose pond I can say, Baptism, school, and our science teachers would take us to the pond, and we used the basic things that we had to learn. You know, as I say to students now, you got everything. You know, they don’t try. We learned a lot from that pond out there. I guess it’s a different day, no sense in me talking about it.

	D:	Now, was that in Mebane? R:	What?

	D:	Your high school. Did you go to high school in Mebane?



	R:	I went to high school at Mebane. Left there and went to BCC. Bethune-Cookman, and I also went to the University of Florida.

	D:	Okay, but you started off at Bethune-Cookman.





	R:	I sure did. Hallelujah! [Laughter]



	D:	[Laughter] what did you study there? R:	What was my major?

	D:	Yes ma’am.



	R:	Biological sciences.



	D:	Okay, and did you study that at University of Florida as well? R:	Mmhm.

	D:	All right. Now you mentioned Mrs. Welch. Was she a director in the church? R:	She was a music teacher in the public school and she directed us here.

Everybody knew her. She loved music and she knew music. You know, and she taught us music. It was just wonderful how she was dedicated to us and you know, all of the little things that she probably didn’t have to do, but she taught us. She had four boys and she taught those boys. She took em under her wing. And made em into a group that everybody knew. She carried em all around Florida, out of Florida. Those were her four boys. [Inaudible 11:10] Reginald Smith was my boyfriend, and George Richardson. All of these were her four boys that she taught.

	D:	All right, and all of them attended this church?



	R:	No, some of them. But we had John Broom, which was the base, and Ted Welcome was the tenor, and all that.

	D:	Oh, they sang?



	R:	Oh, they sang. She trained her boys and she carried em around. We had a good time. People were interested in us and then they didn’t have kids within care.





We cared. We wanted to be the best. I never will forget when we competed in Gainesville. Boy, we wanted to win, and we had three other schools to be in they category. It was good. It was, boy, it was a good time. I wish kids and people were interested like that now. We got kids who can do it, you know, they have the talent. But they don’t wanna do nothing.

	D:	With the talent, did this talent come from the community? The talent that she had.



	R:	Sure! We had [inaudible 12:50] about three of em. Three of em came from this church. She taught, she played the piano and organ and we had one other boy. But he was from down St. Luke Church. The [inaudible 13:12] church right across over there. But we just all worked altogether. She trained us together and we enjoyed ourselves. I can say that was a good thing. I remember a time somebody didn’t have something that one of our group, we’d get together and put all of our money together and help get it. You know what I mean? It was a good time.

People just wasn’t so selfish and didn’t care, but we worked together, I must say that. Our principal was A.L. Mebane, that’s where that name came from.

	D:	Oh, E.L. Mebane?



	R:	A.L. Mebane.



	D:	Oh, A.L. Mebane. R:	Uh-huh.

	D:	This was the high school, right?



	R:	That was the high school. Herb went to it, and all us went to A.L. Mebane. D:	Were there any other Black churches around this area?





	R:	Churches? One right across the street, that’s at the AME Church and right now you can’t see it, but it’s right on that next dirt street. That was a hole in this church. One right down there, it was a hole in this church. The AME church is across the street—but we were surrounded by churches.

	D:	Sure.



	R:	But it was a church that was—We had people here of talent, I could say that. I don’t like to brag about it, but we did have people here with talent.

	D:	Yeah. So what was the original name of this church? R:	What it is now. Paradise Methodist Church.

	D:	Paradise Methodist Church.



	R:	We didn’t use because we were not united at that time. That came later. D:	Okay. And were you attending the church at the time that it went United? R:	Yeah, uh-huh.

	D:	So, when was that?



	R:	Oh, lord. Excuse me a minute. [Calls out to person named Herb] Herb! ‘Scuse me. When did we go united?

	H:	1968.



	R:	[19]68. We united with supposedly all the White churches in all of [inaudible 15:41]. That’s where the ‘united’ came from. When we were just known as Paradise Methodist Church.

	D:	What encouraged that ‘United’? What made this church join United from Paradise church?





	R:	It was because of—this came from a district-something. Where they all wanted to get together and become as one, which is something they should’ve done. But that’s when our ministers—

	D:	So it wasn’t Methodist at first? R:	It was. It was just Methodist. D:	But not United?

	R:	Right.



	D:	Okay. Who was the pastor at this time?



	R:	Oh my goodness. We changed pastors. I can’t think of all of them. Let’s see—I joined this church under Reverend—I don’t know. They change pastors in these churches. But I changed and I came here under Rev. A.L. Pierce. That’s when I joined the church.

	D:	When was that? You remember?



	R:	I joined the church—Let’s see how old I was. Then I can kind of think back. I was coming here when I was in high school, so I graduated from high school in [19]51. So, I don’t know, it’s so long.

	D:	That’s alright. So, you graduated in Mebane in [19]51?



	R:	No, I graduated from Alachua, not Mebane now. I graduated from Alachua county training school right up on the hill. That was before we got Mebane.

	D:	Oh, before.



	R:	It was Alachua County training school, prof A.L. Mebane was the principal.



Everybody knew him.



	D:	And that was who Mebane was named after.





	R:	Mmhm.



	D:	Okay. Was this a teaching school, the training school?



	R:	Yeah. They taught from 9th—uh, which school were you referring to? D:	The training school.

	R:	Alachua County Training School?



	D:	Yeah, Alachua County Training School. ACT.



	R:	Oh, they went from—[Calls out to Herb] Hey, Herb, didn’t we have—We had 9th grade in A.L Mebane, didn’t we? A.L. Mebane. Didn’t we start with 9th grade?

	H:	No, they started in elementary school. R:	Did we have kindergarten?

	H:	Yeah.



	R:	So that was a high school. H:	Yeah.

	D:	What I’m trying to gather is the relationship that the schools in the community had with the church, and how centered the church was to—

	R:	Oh, yeah, they had a relationship. Prof Mebane and all of them went here. A lot of the teachers went here. The other church, the church was a little closer. Now Herb knows [inaudible 18:57] Church in High Spring, and they still had it. The reason why Herb became a part of us—What I mean by ‘a part of us’ was in our—We all knew that Miss Welch had four boys, and Herb was one of the boys that sang, and he still sings now. But Miss Welch trained him and he had three other guys. Was Welcome, George, and who else was in that group? John L. Broom, Theodore Welcome—





	H:	Reggie.



	R:	I said Reginald? Reginald Smith. Reginald Smith was my first boyfriend. And George Richardson. Yeah, it was George, and Welcome, and Broom. Yeah, that was the four boys that Miss Welch trained. That was her boys. I tell you, she loved em and carried em around—

	D:	Uh-huh. And they sang everywhere. R:	Yeah.

	D:	But how old were they? R:	They were in high school. D:	High school.

	R:	They may have started in Junior High but they were in high school. D:	And they sang in choir here as well?

	R:	They sang here. Welcome was a member—Reginal was a member between the two churches cause his mom went down to St. Luke. We were all together. You know how we went from one to church to the other? When they get out of their church early, they’ll come over here. And that’s just what we did. It was a fellowship between St. Luke over there, the Elms church, and Paradise. We’ve always worked together, but it was back then. They don’t do it now. I mean, [inaudible 20:49] different.

	D:	It was at St. Luke? That was the name of the church across the street? R:	Yeah, St. Luke, across the street.

	D:	Okay. Now were you around when they... Or were you familiar around the time they built this church? Do you remember that?





	R:	Yeah.



	D:	So, who helped build the church?



	R:	What you mean, who helped build it?



	D:	Who was some of the people involved with—



	R:	Oh, some of them dead, but the United—The Methodist Church, we applied for some forms from them, and then—The other thing is that the members, and local people—That’s where the money came from.

	D:	From the community.



R:  Members of the community, of the church. D:  Okay.

R:  Then we applied to—Back then we had—And they still have it now, the United Methodist that they would all help with forms.

D:  Okay. Now, when I ask these questions about the church and the relationship that it had to the community, I guess my concern is trying to figure out at what point did the United Church benefit Paradise Church? How did it benefit—

	R:	See, it wasn’t always united. This came from the conference. [Inaudible 22:08] We are a part of that, so when they merged, they became United, that’s when we became United Methodist.

	D:	Okay, okay.



	H:	Three churches merged together. D:	Three churches.

	H:	Yeah, all Methodist Churches, but when they merged together they became the United Methodist.





	D:	Gotcha, and from there this church went into there.



	H:	This church and all the other churches because the Black churches were elite



churches.



	R:	Just Methodist Episcopal Churches. D:	Oh, I see, I see.

	H:	There was another church that was Unitarian [inaudible 22:45] Methodist Church, and then there was a regular Methodist church. The three groups got together, and that’s when they became United.

	D:	I see, I see, I see. All right. What about the story that I’m hearing about there being a deed involved?

	R:	A deed involved? Now, I don’t deal with that. I don’t like to talk about it and go back there cause half the people talkin’ bout it now, they don’t know—

	D:	Sure, sure.



	R:	You understand? So you don’t—I don’t get caught up in that, the deed. D:	I understand.

	R:	Now, what about the deed we had that we got the deed? The church was built, and so all of a sudden in the later years, they start talking about a deed, a deed. We couldn’t have built without a deed. Now the people who gave us and helped us with that dead and gone. Ada Luis and all of those people, Mr. Burgess, all those people gone on. Now, all this junk they kinda dig up now, I don’t know nothin’ about it and I don’t try to get in it, I’m sorry.

	D:	No, I understand, I understand.





	H:	When they merged, there had to be a clause of some kind. And they merged because they offered Black [inaudible 24:02]. They gave Black preachers, they offered them retirement, benefits, that they weren’t getting when we were out there by ourselves. So that was the reason, that’s what threw them in there. They were gonna get them better—

	R:	Right, right.



	H:	Now, I didn’t know anything about the deeds, either. Cause we [inaudible 24:29] deeds with my church—

	R:	Well, back then, but I don’t know where the deeds are to this one, but we had deeds, Herb, but I don’t know where they are.

	H:	[Inaudible 24:40] I don’t know, but then [inaudible 24:43] somewhere in the clause that says they own the building.

	R:	Who own the building?



	H:	United Methodist Church owns this. R:	How they own it?

	H:	I guess ya’ll gave it.



	R:	No, we ain’t give ‘em nothing.



	D:	Alright, so, dealing with this church and looking how it related to the community, do you remember any instances of racism that you can identify with?

	R:	Hmm. You know, we’ve been pretty lucky. We’ve had Caucasians to come and worship with us, but I don’t remember any racism. [calls out to Gail] Hey, Gail, you know as we were saying, we haven’t had any racism around, have we?

We’ve been pretty lucky with that.







G:

Say what?

R:

We’ve been pretty lucky with that. We haven’t had any racism, you know? Like



people wanna come in and raise hell.

D:

Oh, I was asking if there’s been any senses of racism—

R:

Racism around us here.

D:

As it relates to the church and community and dealing with other possibly White



congregations.

R:

No, we’ve been pretty lucky. I said we haven’t had that.

H:

[Inaudible 25:40] Is there any way you can speak to Miss Welch?

D:

Okay, we’ll get to Miss Welch. I’ll personally take care of that.

H:

[Inaudible 26:00]

R:

No, let me—

D:

She gets [inaudible 26:10]

H:

[Inaudible 26:12]

R:

Where is she?

H:

At her house.

D:

Okay.

R:

Okay. He gon’ have to go to her house.

D:

Yeah, we’ll have to go to her house, or we’ll schedule it another time where we



can—

H:

[inaudible]

D:

Okay.

R:

Gail would know ‘bout Miss Welch.





	H:	[inaudible]



	D:	All right.



	R:	All right.



	D:	So we’re gonna continue. I just needed to ask a few more questions. What we try to do is try to identify the significance of the church to the community and wanted to basically ask this program about the “bad boys” and then also what kind of community service that this church provides and wanted to get a sense of—

	R:	We feed the hungry, we do that on Saturdays. We’ve done a lot of things. I’m just trying to think, but we have—Hmm. I can’t—Gail! ‘Scuse me. What else we do besides feed people on Saturdays? From way back.

	G:	[Inaudible 27:34]



	R:	Yeah, with the housing. G:	[Inaudible 27:42]

	R:	Second Sunday. D:	Okay.

	G:	[Inaudible 27:51] D:	Okay.

	G:	Second Sunday.



	R:	Second Sunday, all of ‘em come here. [To Gail] How many churches we got, twelve? Gail, isn’t it twelve churches?

	G:	Yeah.



	H:	That’s been going on five years.



	R:	Yeah, that’s what I said.





	D:	Who’s the current pastor of this church? R:	Current pastor is Yolanda Godboat.

	D:	Yolanda Godboat? R:	Mmhm.

	D:	How long has Pastor Godboat been—



	R:	I don’t know. [To Gail] Hey, has she been here about two years or three years? G:	Five.

	R:	Five, she been here that long? Woo! [Laughter] I didn’t think she was here that long.

	D:	Where does the pastor come from? R:	Different places.

	D:	Different places?



	R:	Uh-huh. The one we have now is from Gainesville, she lives in Gainesville. D:	And does you guys vote on her, or did that come down from United?

	R:	No they send her from conference. Annual conference. We don’t vote on the pastors they send. They send you pastors from the annual conference and whether you like ‘em or not, we have to keep ‘em a year. Oh lord.

	D:	So there’s no Board of Trustees within the church?



	R:	We have Board of Trustees, but they can’t say who to send. We all can agree and say we don’t want ‘em or like ‘em, but we have to keep ‘em so long. Yeah, we got trustees and all of that.

	D:	Okay, and when is this conference coming up, the next one? R:	[To Herb] When is our annual conference?





	H:	Just, the sixteenth and seventeenth.



	R:	The sixteenth and seventeenth. It be different places. Where’s it gonna be this year, down in Orlando?

	H:	In Orlando.



	D:	Okay. I’m just curious to know, how many members would you say this church has?

	R:	On the book, I can’t count ‘em. We have more than ten every Sunday, you know that. We have approximately—Oh my goodness, I didn’t count ‘em, but I would say around forty-five or something like that, or more. More than that on the book.

	D:	Okay, and do you have a full choir, pianist, and people who actually—



	R:	We have a music teacher, who taught us in high school, is our pianist. And we also have another person who plays for us. We had a choir and a junior choir. A regular choir and a junior choir, but they all don’t participate now. I don’t even wanna talk about the last few months. People just been being—Black people just been being Black people, off the record. You know what I’m saying.

	D:	I understand.



	R:	They get mad when somebody get upset because they didn’t—Something the pastor may say, and she’s a woman. You know, somebody could say something and it don’t always have to mean what they say. They have problems, but some of us, we still hold on. [Inaudible 31:20] Gail and Margaret, all of ‘em been here. They know how down through the years. Whatcha doing, Gail and Margaret?

Okay, whatever. I don’t know what that is, but then you know, we’ve had some wonderful members. I don’t know if you’re familiar with any of ‘em. We’ve had





good leadership and the other thing I’m proud of. We have a lot of intellectual people here who have a little bit of sense. Now, when you dealin’ with people who can’t understand, you know that can be something else. You can be dealing with hell. [Laughter] But you got people, and intellectual people that we deal with, that got a little bit of sense.

	D:	What is it that you do now?



	R:	What I do now since I retired? Since I retired from Santa Fe College three years ago, almost three. Now, I sort of—When you been working in the school system for that many years, I left public school system went to Santa Fe when it was a junior college. I worked there until December of last year.

	D:	Oh, congratulations.



R:  They didn’t want me to go, they called me. But I think when I don’t put in thirty- some years here, and ten over here and all of that, there’s time for me to stop. I’m up in age.

D:  Now, are there a lot of educators that go to church here? R:  Yeah.

D:   And they teach a lot of people in the community.



	R:	Yeah, they were. That’s one thing that a lot of people—You know how Black people, they all “them teacher over there, and all them educated people.” People don’t act like it. I don’t understand what they mean when they don’t wanna come and be with you. They learn, but we had a lot of teachers. We had principals here, teachers here, still got some. But I’m just saying that was people White people don’t wanna be around. We used to say if you go rub your head up





against the school wall, they learn a little something. But anyway, we had a lot of teachers come in here and that type of thing.

	D:	Okay. Just a couple of more questions, if you don’t mind. Do you think of any involvement that this church may have had with the Civil Rights Movement?

	R:	Well, yeah.



	D:	Were you involved in a way? Or were people you knew?



	R:	Yeah, we all was—What I can’t say is “we all.” But I’m talking about people who worked with the Civil Rights. We’ve had people meet here, we worked with Civil Rights people, some of ‘em marched, you know, some people. We are the type that is involved in that type of thing. When they come here, we have had different people to come and speak, and come to church here, or whatever. We always into that. That’s part of us, politically.

	D:	What are one of the most profound memories that stand out about the involvement with Civil Rights. Are there any incidents or events that you can think of that this church particularly participated in, or that you participated in?

	R:	Let me see—We participated because we have marched. We’ve been up there and come down the highway and all that. [To Gail] Gail! Gail!

	G:	Uh-huh?



	R:	What...[To Herb] And Herbert, you know it, too, cause if we did it, you all know about it. Ya’ll was helpin’ us. [To Gail and Herb] What political events that we were involved in? That’s not the way he asked it, but similar.

	D:	Yeah, like civil rights activities, or any type of events where the church was a part of, or you guys.





R:  You all were here. Herb knows there’s a program here. H:   All I know is that this church was involved.

D:  That this church or members of the church may have been involved in an issue that was pretty big around here.

R:  Ya’ll think back now. I can only think. H:  [inaudible 35:55]

D:  Just something to think about. H:  Like we have meetings here? G:  I can tell you [inaudible 35:58] R:  Reverend who?

[Herb and Gail]: Reverend Johnson. R:  Oh yeah, but anyway—

D:  Were there meetings here? R:  Yeah. We’ve had meetings. H:  [Inaudible 36:10]

R:   Askin’ what?



H:   Inaudible 36:17



	R:	We—Listen. I wanna put it, I’ll leave it like this. We are a open church, we are involved in the political part of church, we tried to work with all the agencies if we can, Black and White. I don’t know what else we can do, but you know, we are involved with the community activities and that type of thing.

	D:	Okay, okay. And just one more question. Can you think of any other members or past members who you think we should speak with that could possibly help us go





forward and build our understanding of the oral history of this church? Miss Welch is one and I see they’re very knowledgeable. What are their names?

	R:	Who? Who?



D:  This man here and— R:  Talkin’ bout Herbert? D:  Yeah.

	R:	Herbert is not a member, but he is here and he’s worked with us down through the years. He is a United Methodist person. His church home is in High Springs, but he know about it.

	D:	What’s his name? Herbert— R:	Jones.

	D:	Jones.



	R:	Jones.



	D:	Okay, and the lady behind him? R:	Who is that behind you?

	D:	Gail, you said—



	R:	Gail? Gail Jones and who else. Weston, not Weston, but Wes [inaudible 37:35] Wes. I wanna say Wes and Sam Richardson and who else was here?

	D:	Who else should we talk to that may not be here? R:	Who else we think would be good to talk with? Gail? G:	Huh?

	R:	Who else you think we should talk to?



	G:	Like I told you, Reverend Jones [inaudible 38:04] He was the first pastor here.





	R:	Who?



	G:	[Inaudible 38:08]



	R:	Oh, I thought you said Joe. H:	And [inaudible 38:15]

	R:	Huh?



	H:	He was the first pastor when ya’ll merged. G:	When we merged.

	D:	Okay.



	R:	When we merged with the White churches. Who was it? G:	[Inaudible 38:32]

	R:	You may wanna speak to him, Reverend J.D. Johnson. You hear who else they sayin’?

	D:	Okay. And you said Reverend Fergus? G:	Ferguson.

	D:	Ferguson.



	R:	Ferguson. He’s dead. D:	He’s passed, okay. [Inaudible 38:50]

	G:	He’s still alive.



	R:	He’s up on the hill, just past the school. D:	Okay.

	R:	J.D. Johnson. He’s still pastoring. D:	Alright.





	R:	I don’t know who else we should say. [To Gail] Come on up here, Gail, I can’t hear you from back there. Gail!

	G:	[Inaudible 39:19]



	D:	One more question. [To Gail] Yeah, we’ll get to that in a moment. [To Richardson] I just wanted you to possibly give me an idea of what you want to say that we didn’t cover and some things that you think are important to this conversation of trying to capture the history of this church and how it’s important to the community, and why it shouldn’t be possibly shut down or closed for any other reasons. Is there anything you would like to say?

	R:	The thing I would like to say, I probably wouldn’t want it on there. But [Laughter] I feel that this church has been here. I think back bout our fore fathers who have worked and, men and women, how they cook and sold cakes and pies and everything to keep and pay whatever we had to pay from a financial standpoint. We did all of that. Down through the years, we have been a very viable church.

There’s nothing that we needed, that we couldn’t do. I know when the younger ones came along, we all worked together. We alwys tried to help our young people.

	D:	I see.



	R:	So we worked together and we tried to help our youth and many of our children have gone on to college and we’re very proud of that. We haven’t had, and we talk about it sometimes among ourselves, we don’t have ‘em in jail, or have gone to prison or anything like that, and we are thankful for all those little things that people don’t normally think about. Our families sorta work together. We may not





know you when you first come, but we do have young people, and we’ve had our quite a few young men come in and that’s great. The good thing about it, we feel open to other churches. Herb is not a member, but he’s here. Those are the kind of people we deal with. Herb knows or hear we need somethin’ to be done, they don’t mind comin’ in and workin’ with us, and we work with them. So, you have to be what you say you are, you know, and that’s how I feel.

	D:	Okay, well, I think that’s pretty much it, for now. We’ll possibly be setting up more interviews with you, talk to you in the future, but for now we’d like to just say thank you.

	R:	I’d have to get your full name. D:	Okay.

	R:	And then the other thing is I want to emphasize we have, I hate to say that, but I don’t want people to think I’m being funny—But we have some very intellectual people.

	D:	Okay, when you say intellectual, what do you mean by it? R:	I means it.

	D:	Smart.



	R:	Pretty good. [Laughter] D:	Okay, okay.

	R:	You can use—Well all of ‘em are not where I would put ‘em, if I was grading like I was in the classroom. But they are most of them. This church has had a lot of— When I joined and had been from way back... That had a lot of teachers. A lot of people, but it was a church of intellectual ability. Whether they showed it or not.





But if they had to do it, they could do it. You see, Herb is not a member of this church, but he’s here. And we asked him. The music teacher that taught us, taught him. She organized a group, so she has four—She organized and kept those four guys together. Two of ‘em was members here, and Herb was from High Springs but she had her little four guys, and she carried ‘em around to different places. The music teacher did. We were sorta the envy of a lot of things.

	D:	Of the community. Okay. But you helped the community.



	R:	Yeah. That’s what I’m saying. We helped, we started our food, We started that. Comin’ out, fixing food, and feeding the people of a community. We do a lot, so many little things, that I can’t think em all, but we have. We haven’t been a selfish church.

	D:	Okay.



R:  We don’t mind helping if we can. D:  All right, all right, well, thank you. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Bianka Ramirez August 31, 2018 Audit-edited by:	Chris Calton, October 3, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 26, 2019