AAHP 152; Davis; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 152 Cassandra Davis African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Erin Conlin on December 6, 2010 31 minutes | 19 pages



Abstract: Cassandra Gassett Davis was born and raised in High Springs, Florida; her father was a teacher at A.L. Mebane High School in Alachua, and her mother taught at Douglass High School in High Springs. She herself was not old enough to attend Mebane before it was closed for integration, so she attended Santa Fe High School in Alachua, but at the time of this interview Ms. Davis was serving as the president of the Mebane High School alumni association. She describes the activities of the alumni association, including the annual reunion. Ms. Davis also talks about her own experiences in the education system, and the importance placed on education in her household. She talks about some of what she knows of her parents’ experiences, and the “little juke” that her father ran.





[Keywords: African American History; Alachua County, Florida; A.L. Mebane High School; Douglass High School]













































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 152

Interviewee: Cassandra Gassett Davis Interviewer: Erin Conlin

Date: December 6, 2010



	C:	All right. I’m Erin Conlin, interviewing Cassandra Davis on December 6, 2010 for the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program in conjunction with the Mebane High School reunion committee. So, Ms. Davis, I was just wondering if you could start out and just introduce yourself. Your name and date and where you were born would be great just so we have a little background.

	D:	I’m Cassandra Gassett Davis. I’m a native of High Springs, I guess Alachua County. I was born in High Springs, so really about a couple of blocks down the road from where I live presently now. I didn’t attend A.L. Mebane High School, but my father was a teacher at A.L. Mebane High School. He taught elementary school there, and I guess he was mainly a behavior resource kind of person, what they call them now. My mother was a teacher, and she taught at Douglas in High Springs. So once she left Douglas in High Springs, you went to A.L. Mebane High School to finish your high school career because Douglas stopped at like sixth or seventh grade. And then you went to Mebane to finish your school year, but in 1970s when the school actually closed down. So I actually attended Santa Fe High School here in Alachua and graduated in 1972.

		C:	Okay. And are you still affiliated with the school in some way? Did you say that— D:		Yes. At A. L. Mebane High School. What we have now is called the A. L. Mebane High School Alumni Association, Incorporated. It’s just a group of students,

community leaders, anyone who wants to, really, has formed a group, and it just talks about the history of Mebane, reminiscing about Mebane, some of the teachers that attended Mebane, and every year we have what’s called the A. L.





Mebane High School Alumni Association. During that time, we invite all students, group classes like this year, we recognized the classes of 1960, 1965, and 1970. We asked those students if they would come, we had this big reception for them, and they were all elated to be there. Reception for them is part of our activities, and we always have it every Thanksgiving weekend. Starts that Friday night, runs through Sunday afternoon. We conclude our worship service on Sunday.

And during Saturday we have the parade and we have vendors up there cooking out with the big grills, selling fish and ribs and chicken and all this kind of stuff.

We have a reception for the classes, as I said, for those classes. And this year we had a play that the Alachua Children’s Theater does, and it was called The Chip Woman’s Fortune. They came and did that, which was really nice. And then at the end of Saturday, we had all the classes come together and we called it a round-up. And you come out when your class is called, 1970, or whatever. [19]72 is my year. You come out, you bring your classmates with you and you kind of introduce your class and kind of just say something about your class. If you want to sing a song, if you wanted to act, or play or something like that. So that’s what we had also on Saturday.

	C:	Okay. And how big were the classes for most of these people?



	D:	Probably started like 80 students, maybe, or something like that. Probably about the max. If you’ve got a class of 80, that’s a large class. My guess, anyway.

	C:	Okay. And did your father have any recollections from when he was teaching or stories that he told you or that you remembered?





	D:	Hm. Not really. Now, the way they classified my father, I have to say—my father’s deceased. But the way they classified my father was, whenever someone introduces me, they’ll say, this is Mr. Gassett’s daughter, because he taught them. Oh, Mr. Gassett, because he was a strict disciplinarian. So that’s the way they always classified my father. He was the dean of the school unofficial, they’d say. We would always go attend basketball games. He would take us up there because he would be working like the concession or the order ticket booth or something. So I was always at the basketball games, football games, or whatever activities, because my mother was really into sports too, because when she was at Douglas, she was the girls’ basketball coach. So she was really into that. So we would always attend all of the football activities and basketball activities, sports activities that was held at the school, because of my father working there and then my mother being involved in sports too. Because that was her intended major when she finished college. She graduated from Bethune-Cookman College in Daytona. And her intended major, she wanted to major, was physical education. But during that time, the jobs were very limited being physical education. So she went and changed into elementary education. And both my parents have degrees in elementary education. Both of them are deceased, but both had degrees in elementary education.

	C:	It’s funny listening to your stories. It sounds a lot like my family. [Laughter]



	D:	But, of course, my degree is in education, but I don’t work in education. I work in finance or credit union accounting is where I work.

	C:	Okay. And did you have any siblings when you were growing up?





	D:	Oh, yeah. I have three brothers. I’m an only girl. I have one older and two younger that I have. One lives presently in Tampa who is a teacher. And I have one in Atlanta. He’s just a laborer. And then I have another brother that lives in High Springs who lives in my parent’s home place. And he is an air conditioning, refrigeration, whatever they call those mechanics. He does that for the state of Florida. He does that. That’s my brothers. And my son is a teacher. [Laughter] I don’t know how he got there, but he is. He teaches honors science classes at a middle school in Plant City, Florida. Which, I’m not sure of the name of the middle school, but he teaches. This is his fourth year, he just told me. So he told me he’s on a continuing contract now, that’s right. So this is his fourth year. He’s enjoyed it.

	C:	That’s great.



	D:	I have two grandsons, one named Jay Davis and the other one’s Miles Davis.



Jay is in the fifth grade, Miles just turned five on December first. So he’s all excited about that. And he’ll be in kindergarten next year. And my husband, Jay, who’s retired, just sitting around home not doing too much. And he retired from the state.

	C:	And did any of your brothers, then, attend Mebane?



	D:	Yes. My oldest brother Sydney did attend Mebane. He attended Mebane, I guess? He didn’t graduate from Mebane, but he attended Mebane because in 1966, [19]67, [19]68, somewhere along the way when integration first took place, you had an opportunity to say that, I either want to go to Santa Fe, or I want to go to Mebane. You had a choice. But in 1970, you no longer had a choice. So his





choice—he went to Mebane at that time. He went to Mebane for maybe a couple of years. Then after that he went to Santa Fe. So he actually finished from Santa Fe High School. Because you had a choice whether you wanted to go here or go there. Because I remember I had a choice, too, when I left sixth grade. I could go to seventh grade. I could go to Mebane, or I could go to Santa Fe. And my parents sent me to Santa Fe.

	C:	And why did they do that?



	D:	I don’t know why they did that. [Laughter] They sent me to Santa Fe, but I was supposed to go back to Mebane in the ninth grade when I could play basketball. That’s one other thing. They cut out girl sports at that time, so I couldn’t do it and I decided, I was just right at Santa Fe, so I just stayed there, really, because I only had one more year and then integration took place.

	C:	Okay. And how did your family, since there were so many people involved in education, how did they feel about integration?

	D:	Now, my mother was okay with it. Because my mother was laid-back and she liked meeting people, introducing people, and all of this kind of stuff. I have to tell you this one integration story, though. The one thing she said. Because she taught kindergarten, first grade, somewhere along the way, she taught that, and during integration time, it was rough trying to, you know, make new friends, develop new lifestyles, new people, and all this kind of stuff. So she always told me about this one little boy that she was teaching in her class, and he was—It was at lunch or something. And she said, well, why don’t you go and sit over here, or he might have come to her and said, you sit over here with these





children or something like that. And he said to her, which, I don’t like saying these words, but he said to her, “Ms. Gassett, I don’t want to sit over there with those niggers. I want to sit over there with you.” [Laughter] So she talks about that kind of stuff all the time. But you know, you had a lot of that. And it was a big change. It was a difference, and it’s a cultural difference that you had to go through and deal with. But, we overcome those kinds of things.

	C:	Because yeah, I was curious with her having younger children if they came to school with those same ideas, I would think certainly, you know. The older kids would.

	D:	The older kids would. But yeah, the young ones had that in them too.



	C:	So did your dad have to deal with more disciplinary issues pertaining to racial issues once integration was encouraged?

	D:	Yeah, my dad was such a strong—Now, when that came about, they moved him.



He left Mebane. He went to Duval elementary school.



	C:	Okay.



	D:	Well, Norton and Prairie View first. Those two schools were out in east Gainesville. So in east Gainesville, you mostly basically have Black people out there. So he didn’t have as much of that as she had because she was right there in High Springs. He couldn’t deal with it that way because he’s strong-willed and that kind of stuff. But yeah, that’s what we encountered.

	C:	And in your own perceptions of your education, did it change at all after integration occurred? In terms of the quality of education that you thought you were getting?





	D:	I always think that maybe I probably would have been a little more assertive or something if I would have been in my same environment with the Black children as opposed to going over here with 80 percent, 85 percent White students, which my parents chose to send me to. I don’t know why they did that still, but anyway. I might have—Sometimes I think that because I’m kind of shy and withdrawn, I don’t express myself too well, especially to strangers, but anyway. And I’m thinking that might have had something to do with my growing up. But then again, another one of my teachers told me that I really didn’t talk too much in school. So that might not have been the case anyway, but yeah. Sometimes I think it had something to do with it. Sometimes I think I probably would have excelled a lot more in school if I would have stayed at Mebane or somewhere until the tenth grade when I was forced to go to Santa Fe High School. I think that sometimes, but then again, maybe it’s just my not talking a lot.

	C:	Did your parents sort of always expect that you would then go on to college?



Was that—?



	D:	Oh, yeah. My mom told me I was going. There was no choice, because, you know, I’m saying, we don’t have the finances for me to go to college and this kind of stuff. She said, “Get ready, you’re going.” That’s basically what she said. And I said, even when I was majoring in college, I said, I got there—Because I went to Bethune-Cookman in Daytona, the same place where my parents went—And I’m thinking, what am I going to even major in? So she said, well, you like typing.

You’d do a good job in a business class. Major in business education. So that’s what I did. I majored in business education. And once I—While I was there, I





interned at Santa Fe High School with [Inaudible]. But she’s retired now. And I interned and I guess the following year, because I actually finished college in December 1975, but at my school you only had graduation once a year. So I actually marched in May of 1976. And during that time, you couldn’t really get a teaching job in the first part of the year, so I applied to SunState. Well, no. When I first got out of college, I did—What do they call them?—Teacher’s aide job. I did that from January through May. And then—And this is how I obtained my job—I went to—My mother is a member of Alachua County Teacher’s Credit Union, is what it was called then, but now it’s called Florida Credit Union. And so she was going there because I had finished college and she was buying her a new car, a 1976 Ninety-Eight Oldsmobile. She was buying her a new car, and so, as she was filling out applications for the car, I applied for a job at teacher’s credit union. And so I didn’t get the job there, but they sent me to what was known then as Florida USDA Federal Credit Union, which is now SunState Credit Union, where I work. So someone called me from Florida USDA, and I’m thinking, who is this? I don’t know anything about them. But they called me because they were looking for a Black person to work for the credit union because they didn’t have anyone and I was the first one to work at that credit union. I started working there June 14, 1976. And I’ve been there ever since, ever since that time. So that’s kind of the way it went around with my educational skills started with my mother saying, “Oh yeah, you’re going.” And I guess because I was the only girl, maybe she wanted to make sure. My brothers, they went, but they never did finish. My older brother, he just finished about four years ago. That’s the one that I said is





teaching now. He is a teacher because he was always into computers. He has his own little computer business. Any little thing like that because he was a little entrepreneur or something like that. But now he’s teaching business classes at a high school. So that’s how I came about because she wanted to make sure. And that’s kind of the way I feel. I have one great-niece because my two grand-boys, they are ten and five, and then I interact a lot with my one niece in Atlanta, who is a teacher. [Laughter] So I guess it goes around, this teacher stuff. And she has two sons and one little daughter who’s ten, I guess? Ten. And I want to make sure that she gets an education. So I was thinking I’m going to start a fund to get her so that at least the girls, you know, because the boys can kind of make it. But you want to make sure the girls are covered.

	C:	That’s great.



	D:	Yeah. I want to make sure. So that’s kind of the way we were developed. And we always lived in High Springs. And I have to—I guess this might be a part of history, too—say the way my mother came to High Springs. She was born and raised in a little town out from Tallahassee. You’ve heard of Tallahassee. It’s in Jefferson County, it’s called Lamont. They probably only have a handful of people there, but anyway. That’s where she was born and raised at. And her parents lived there. She was raised with the parents. And her dad couldn’t read or write. So he was raised working on a farm and everything. And during that time, you would have what’s called credit or an account. Say, for instance, you owned a store. And I could go there and get something on credit and I’d come back and pay you. And so he would do that. And the lady that owned the store, of





course, was a White lady and family that owned the store. So he went down to the store and the lady was hard of hearing. And he went there one evening and he wanted to get something, and she wouldn’t allow it, and he called her deafer, or something like that, meaning deaf heifer. He called her a deaf heifer. So they told him that night that they needed to get out of town. Someone told him that.

Someone told him they needed to get out of town—I can’t remember who mom told him—That they needed to get out of town because they were going to burn the house. So they loaded up on the back of his truck, and thank goodness they did. Because they came through the night and they blowed up this house that they were living in. So that’s how my family, my mother, got to High Springs.

From that incident. She was five years old at the time. So she lived—She was born in—I guess that was [19]39, because she was born in 1934. So that was in 1939. So that’s how my mother, that’s how we started in High Springs. Now, my dad, I guess, was already there. I don’t know where he came from. [Laughter] I think he came from South Carolina, I don’t know. I guess that’s a part of history, part of my family, how we got to light. But, you know, I deal with all people and I pride myself on that. I don’t like to think in racial, this kind of stuff. I like to deal with people as people. Because all people are important. All people are special. All people have limited skills. Some have great skills. Some have none. And I take pride in dealing especially with those with limited skills. Even like the homeless or this or that and the other. You know, I hate—Because, sometimes, being as a Black person, especially with an education, the ones that don’t, they’ll think a little bit higher of you or you don’t want to deal with them or something like





that. So I like to get away from that kind of stigmatism and you just deal with all people. Because my mother was that way. Because this one guy—I don’t know how she did it, but she did. Because I always told her, I said, “Mom, you need to sit at home.” Because she would—My dad died in 1979, so she would always have—She died in 1999. And she would have people you wouldn’t think, being a retired teacher that she would deal with. No, no. This one guy, he would come by to rake her yard. His mental capacity was very low. He would rake her yard, do things for her. He wouldn’t bathe that much, and sometimes maybe in the winter when like it’s cold now, she’d have the gas heat on and you could smell him. And I said, “Mom, how do you keep him in here like that?” She said, “Oh, he’ll be all right.” I said, “Okay, he’ll be all right.” But she just took in all people like that with her. And I’m not like that.

	C:	Were your parents active in the community when you were growing up?



	D:	Oh, yes. Yes, yes, yes. Yes, now, my dad, he always was into—He’d have what’s called a little store they used to call a little juke. Where you had the music and you’d sell the beer and you’d sell the sandwiches and all that stuff. He always had that. And then he dealt with, like, they would have a little community baseball team. And he would have that. He was the manager of the baseball team. That kind of stuff. He was a easily a good man with people and stuff. He would have that. And also, he had a band one time called the Soul Caprices. I remember the name of the band, so you know, they would go around from place to place playing or something like that. Just always out there doing something involving other people. He wasn’t as kind as my mother, but he did that. And, one





time, he—They were always involved in church, and he ran for High Springs city commissioner one year, and he was defeated. And then later in life—Probably around I don’t know what year that was—my mother, she ran for High Springs city commissioner. I was telling her, you don’t want to go up there and be bothered with that. But she did. She ran—When she died, she was commissioner. On March 25, 1999, that was the day she died. A Thursday. She was a commissioner at that time. And she ran—She probably served about five or six years. And she was the mayor at one time. So she was very proud of that, to know that she—From where she came from and all this that she went through, and now she was the mayor of the city. So she was extremely proud of that.

They were heavily involved. They even started the school Douglass that the Black children went to before integration took place and it shut down. When the building shut down, you know, it’s destroyed, in the neighborhood. And they only had this one part of it that was left, which was the cafeteria. It was kind of away from the main building because you walked to there. Back then, my mother initiated a team to come together to clean up this building, which was the cafeteria, we always thought it was so huge but it was about the size of this room. So they renovated it. It was called the High Springs Community Redevelopment Association. They renovated that, and she spearheaded that leadership on that, and now today it’s a daycare center. And it just houses low- income children and I’m still a part of that little daycare team that I help. That’s my one activity. Because when she died, people tell me, why don’t you go ahead and run for city commissioner, because you could just walk right in. Oh, no, no,





no, no. I’m not doing that. Not right now, I said. Anyway, I’m involved with the daycare center and all of those little children there that needs my help more than me sitting up there on council and listen to all that grief all day long. But yeah, they were involved in the community all the time. All the time. And I guess I followed their footsteps because I’m overloaded, as you can see, being involved in the community because I have—Of course, I’m involved in my church. I play the piano at my church. I work with children at church, which I—That’s where I’m going tonight. That’s why I couldn’t meet you in the evenings. It’s just, this is just a busy week because we’re getting ready for our Christmas little musical on Sunday. I play the piano there, too. Involved in that. I’m graduate chapter sorority Zeta Phi Beta sorority. I’m the president of that. I work with that. A. L. Mebane, I’m the president of that. [Laughter] And what else am I involved in? So much.

Kiwanis Club. You ever heard of Kiwanis Club? Anyway, I’m part of that team, too. I just stepped down from the board on that and they said, “Well, Cassandra.” I said, “No, if you can find somebody else, get somebody else.” I said, “I’ll be here to work. I’ll help on projects and that stuff.” But I didn’t want a leadership job in that. But everything you kind of get—That’s what my friend always tells me, Alena, she’s a very good friend of mine—She attended Florida State. She’s a retired police officer. She’s an investigator. We always talk about, you know, sometimes you just have to stay away from going to meet as a group because you seem to get pointed out to always lead something or do something or something like that, so you kind of stay away, but no. Yeah, we were involved in community. All the time.





	C:	And you were mentioning when you were growing up that you would go to sporting events at the high school for activities. What other kinds of stuff did you guys do for fun? Just on a weekend or those types of things.

	D:	I guess just playing up and down the dirt roads with your friends and your neighbors. Because Glenis lived down the road. We would always play with them. We did talk about Glenis. Her father worked for the railroad, and so he would go out and stay two or three days or something like that. Me and my oldest brother would always go down there to their house and play cards. Spades, too. We would play cards. And have some more friends around and their dad used to load us up in his station wagon and he would take us to O’Leno State Park and swim in the black river. I would never get in that dark water now, but I remember that, one day, we were in the river swimming down to O’Leno, and one friend of mine, Mervin, he had already—There was a hole, or something like that, and he kind of got in the hole and was out of it. Then here we’re still swimming, then I got in the hole. I said, “Oh, gee.” So we would go to those kind of parks. They would take us to those parks. And we would go to football games, like college football games, because we would go back to Bethune-Cookman for their homecoming. My parents would take me down there to that. And parks, O’Leno, those types of things. We—One vacation, every summer, we would go to Pompano Beach, Florida. Because my dad had a first cousin down there, Charlie Gassett, that he loved going to see, so that would be our outing during the summer. We would always go there. Because they were teachers, so they were out during the summer. We would always go there because we’d go to Pompano





to the beach, and stay down there probably about a week or so with them. And I have an aunt that lived in Jacksonville, Clara. We would go there, and if my parents needed to go somewhere—One summer, my dad’s sister got burned or something. She lived in New York. So they went to New York, and they left us in Jacksonville over there. We would always go there. And my parents, my mother’s sisters, she had two sisters. We would meet with them at least once a year.

Families would gather together. Mostly, we did it on Thanksgiving Day when we first started out, and then it turned into like a little reunion type thing. We would always go either Tampa, High Springs, or Jacksonville on Thanksgiving Day.

Have a meal together, children playing together, doing crazy things like that. Now, when I was in elementary and middle school at Douglas, we had recreation during the summer and we would always—They would once a week would load us up on the bus and they’d take us to a pool, which was called—You know where Lincoln Middle School is off of Waldo Road over there? Anyway, there was a big pool over there. And that’s where we went to learn how to swim. We went to a pool there. Mr. Nichols taught us how to swim over there. And it cost us 35 cents. Highest pay in Gainesville. [Laughter] We would always go over there and take swimming lessons. So we did that recreation during the summer, swimming during the summer. I took piano lessons and the lady lived in the neighborhood. That was 35 cents too, by the way. My mother sent me there. She was always trying to find a way to enrich me and develop me, making me self- supportive. That would happen. And that’s kind of what we did. She kept us





involved, she kept us in school, kept us in church, this kind of stuff. My brothers don’t do as well now, but yeah. But it was instilled in them. I still think about it.

	C:	I was curious when you mentioned with your mom having had to move in the middle of the night and coming to High Springs. I would think, as a child, that would have sort of given her the sense that things could change so quickly in your community and I was curious if she always felt safe being in High Springs, then, and raising you guys there?

	D:	Yes. Everybody that’s around—This one lady that’s a police officer, she got hurt a few years ago in the High Springs Police. I don’t know if they call her Ms. [Inaudible] or whatever. Anyway. My mom, she was always involved with all people and trying to help them out, and she saw me one day and oh, she embraced me and she loved me. Oh, your mother was this, your mother was that. Because she was all involved. She didn’t allow setbacks or things like that to keep her from loving you just because you burnt my house. No, no, no. Never would. She just didn’t do that. She’d just see people as people and what I can do to help them, what I can do to lift them up, what I can say to encourage them, those types of things that she was involved in.

	C:	That’s great.



	D:	Yeah, yeah, yeah. I try to. Some people say, “No, you’re not like your mother.” I say, “Yes, I am.” [Laughter]

	C:	That’s funny. I was also curious you had mentioned when you had first gotten your job working for the bank that they had hired you because you were the only





African-American who had applied. And I was curious sort of for your own perspective how that affected your outlook on the job.

	D:	You know, it really didn’t. They really welcomed me in really well. Yeah, they did. Now, sometimes I think about—Because I call it the new generation of workers. These new people that we have at the credit union, new president, vice president, and all that kind of thing. Sometimes I think that that more of a hamper than the ones when I first got hired. One lady still lived in that first [Inaudible].

And then, you know, back then—Now, when I went for an interview. Now we have team concept interviewing. I had a team to interview me. There was three. There was the treasurer of the credit union, the president of the credit union, and the book keeper of the credit union. All three of them interviewed me. I don’t know if it was because I was a Black female or what the deal was, but they all three interviewed me. But everyone else coming along for a job, just one person interviewed them and they come onboard. Of course, now we do have team interviewing now because of all these HR rules and everything. But, no.

Everyone really accepted me really well and I was just a part because I got there and I worked hard. And I was working and I was dedicated to it, just like I am now, which I need to go. [Laughter]

	C:	Well, if there is any last thing that you wanna—



		D:		Especially, be there for, what, how many now? Thirty-four years. C:	Wow, congratulations. That’s great.

	D:	Yeah. It’s a long time.



	C:	Can you think of anything else that you want to sort of end with?





	D:	Well, is there anything you particularly need to ask me, I guess.



	C:	No, not at all. No, it was a great opportunity to come and talk with you and I appreciate it.

	D:	I’m just out there trying to help people, serve people and, you know, develop. I see this, got children on here. Just trying to get some of these off the street. Get them educated.

	C:	We appreciate the work you do.



	D:	Yeah, we’re having a program on the third Sunday, which I try to get them to have it after this Christmas. I said, “We need a break during the holidays. We work Thanksgiving, now we’re working now.” I said, “Come on, my friend.” He said, “No, let’s get it over with.” I said, “No, let’s do it after Christmas. Let’s enjoy the holidays.” Which is a scholarship program that the A.L. Mebane High School Alumni Association does. I guess that’s one of the main things we do with our funds. Once we do fundraisers, then we accumulate all our little books. This year, we happened to have $8,000, which we’re thankful for. That’s a big pot. So, and then we have applicants and we’ll award them the scholarships on Sunday, December 19.

	C:	That’s great.



	D:	Yeah. It’s been good talking to you, really. C:	Thank you so much.

	D:	I was really a little reluctant about it. But to think about what I’ve done and where I’ve come from and that kind of stuff is very important.





	C:	And thank you for sharing that with us. That’s kind of the exciting part of the project is that way these stories will be archived and your grandkids and, hopefully, great-grandkids can log online eventually and they can hear you talking about all this stuff that your family has done. That’s exciting.

	D:	Yeah, yeah. Alachua. I was born and raised in High Springs. C:	Okay, great.

	D:	Yeah. Right down the road from where I live now, really. C:	That’s good to have deep roots within the community.

	D:	Yeah, yes, yes. Sometimes you say, “Oh gosh, I’ve gotta get away from it.” Because you know, every corner you turn, there’s someone that you know or something like that so you just wanna just, “Oh, let’s go to Atlanta, let’s go somewhere,” just to get away and take a breather. But it keeps you busy.

	C:	Thank you so much.



	D:	Oh, you’re so welcome. [End of interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Jeffrey Hartmann, November 3, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 19, 2019