AAHP 463; Lawson; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 463 Alena Lawson

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Marna Weston on August 7, 2012 24 minutes | 11 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 463

Interviewee: Alena Lawson Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: August 7, 2012



	W:	Thank you. This is Marna Weston for the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program on August 7, 2012 and we’re here speaking to Alena “Bugs” Lawson. Thank you Mrs. Lawson for being here, although I saw you shake a little bit so do you want to present yourself in a different way?

	L:	No, I think did you say my first name is Alena. W:	Alena, okay.

	L:	So I wanted to make sure that, Alena Lawson. [Laughter]



	W:	Alena Lawson, alright thank you. Could you please spell your complete name? L:	Yes, A-L-E-N-A Lawson, L-A-W-S-O-N.

	W:	And could you please tell your place and date of birth?



	L:	Place, I was born in Newberry, Florida and date, May 21st.



	W:	That’s all you want to tell us? [Laughter] That’s all you have to. L:	That’s enough. [Laughter]

	W:	You were born in Newberry, were you born in a hospital in Newberry, were you born at home?

	L:	No, I was born in the same home where my mom resides right now with the help of a midwife.

	W:	Are you familiar with the midwife’s name?



	L:	Yeah, but she’s no longer alive. Harriet somebody, I’ve forgotten her name, but Harriet she was from High Springs.

	W:	Okay. You mentioned High Springs with a lot of reverence, have you been there your whole life?





	L:	I’ve been in Newberry.



	W:	Pardon me, I live in High Springs, you live in Newberry. Go ahead.



	L:	No, I actually lived in Gainesville for, I bought a home here for eleven years and then I moved to Newberry.

	W:	What is it about Newberry that is special if you were to describe it to somebody who’s not from there?

	L:	Small town flavor, I graduated from there I grew up there. Even in my subdivision we have our little crime watch meeting, we’ll be meeting tonight. So, it’s family, friends, and fun in Newberry and not as much crime.

W:  And Newberry has exhibited an incredible amount of growth over the last ten years. Could you describe what that’s been like to watch your small town get bigger?

	L:	Well, we’ve had a lot of sports tourism going on in Newberry. We’ve partnered with the Easton Corporation and built the Archery Center. It’s an indoor and outdoor archery center where people from all over the world come and train and compete. Just recently we’ve completed Nations Park which has sixteen baseball fields there and our grand opening will be in November, weekend of seventeenth and eighteenth. So, and then we’re building our first community center. The Martin Luther King Community Center is being built as we speak and we’ve developed and expanded and improved our parks. So we try to cater to all ages in the city of Newberry, that’s what makes Newberry a great place to live.

	W:	Who are your mom and dad?





	L:	My mom is Lavonia King, she’s eighty-eight years old, still alive. My dad has been dead for about twenty-seven years. He was Floyd King Sr.

	W:	And I’m very sorry for your loss. I’m sure you think of him fondly— L:	Oh, definitely.

	W:	Can you tell me about your mom’s mom and dad?



	L:	Yeah, my mom’s mom, lived to be ninety-nine and a half. Maple William, she died about five years ago. Her dad, Jessie Davis, died a lot longer than that. Her mom was living in Newberry when she died. Her dad was living here in Gainesville when he died.

	W:	Do you know much about your grandparent’s, parents, on your mom’s side? Your grandma or granddaddy’s, mom and dad?

	L:	I know my mom’s grandmother really well because she a matriarch and we all refer to her as Mom. That was our momma. My mom, we call Mother. And my grandmother, we call Grannie. But my great-grandmother, Melissa Williams, because there was seven siblings, some of us stayed in my great-grandmother’s house, some stayed in my parents’ home ‘cause it was too many of us to stay in one house. But, my great-grandmother Melissa ran everybody’s home. What she said go, you didn’t argue with Momma at all.

	W:	[Laughter] How about on your dad’s side?



	L:	I don’t remember. My older siblings remember his parents, but I don’t them.



	W:	So, you have brothers and sisters. Could you list them from oldest to youngest please?





	L:	My parents had seven children. My oldest sister, Brenda Whitfield, she retired a year ago from Arch Elementary as a teacher. My next sibling is Floyd King Jr. He works at Cheney Brothers in Ocala. The next one is Gale Watson. She works with child developmental services out of Ocala, but she supervises Head Start in Gainesville, Levy, Gilchrist, Dixie, and now Citrus County. And then Cecil King, he’s Vice President of Operations for Cheney Brothers in West Palm Beach, Rivera Beach area. Lewis King retired public work supervisor from Alachua County public works and he’s also a pastor in Chiefland. And then me, and my youngest brother, Donald King, died of leukemia. It will be six years this month August 30th—

	W:	I’m very sorry.



	K:	He was a retired district chief from the Gainesville Fire Rescue. [Interruption]

	W:	Okay, we’re back with Alena Lawson. We just finished talking about your siblings.



I’d like to give you now a chance to talk about your kids and your immediate family life.

	L:	I have two children, Alana Lawson Bell is the oldest. She has two kids, Taya, who’s eight and Payton who just turned three last month. And Lance Lawson is the youngest, both of them live in Tampa and both of them are teachers. Alana teaches at Alonso High School, almost three-thousand students. And Lance teach in an inner-city school, Middleton High School. He’s also the business manager there so he wears several caps and assists with coaching track.





	W:	That’s terrific. You have so much hope for your children and grandchildren, I can just see your face light up when you talk about them. Is it because of this connection that you have with your family that you’re so involved in public service?

	L:	Yes. One of the things I’ve been taught, and it’s in the bible, “To whom much is given, much is required or expected.” And, a lot was given to me when I was matriculating in high school and in college. So, I’ve always felt obligated to give back and do what I can to improve the quality of life for all people. I’ve taught my kids that as well, they were forced to volunteer when they were younger. We did Paint Your Heart Out when the city of Gainesville used to have this painting program. So they learned that at an early age about volunteering and they also participated in the political process, so the hill signs, and campaign signs. Not only for me, but for other candidates that we were supporting.

	W:	How did you become a democrat?



	L:	My parents were democrats, my grandmother was a democrat, my grandfather was a democrat so I’ve been a democrat all my life. I started voting at the age of nineteen I’m not sure what happened when I turned eighteen. I think– my birthday is in May so I was still in high school at that time when I turned eighteen, but I registered at the age of nineteen and I’ve been voting ever since, never missed an election. I just think you’re obligated to vote. People died for us to have a right to vote. So you’re supposed to vote. But I’ve been a democrat all of my life because I think I believe in the philosophy, don’t agree with all of ‘em, but most of what the democrats stand for I do believe in.





	W:	Today in 2012 what is it that you love about being a democrat?



	L:	Like I said, “To whom much is given, much is required.” The democrats care about people, they want to help people, they want to give them a helping hand. I grew up seven kids, we were poor, and we had very little. So, that’s what I’m most proud of. The fact that they fight against discrimination. Discrimination because of age, because of race, because of gender, because of sexual orientation, and I strongly believe in those principles.

	W:	Would you please share what you remember from the first time you voted for a democratic presidential candidate?

	L:	I’ve never voted for anything other than a democratic president so, I don’t even remember the first one I voted for. But I remember the recent ones, like Clinton and of course Barak Obama. And I voted for Gore, Kerry, and all of those so I don’t remember the first one, but I’ve always, always, voted for a democratic president.

	W:	Do you remember what it meant to you when you first heard that Barack Obama had been elected President of the United States?

	L:	Well, to be honest with you I was shocked. It was disbelief and I even went to Fox which I very rarely go to. [Laughter] I remember what happened four years ago with Gore and I went to bed thinking he was president, woke up and it– I was like, “Oh, no please don’t do this again.” So, I went to Fox and I kept surfing all the different networks for confirmation and it was one of those, “O-M-G, Oh my God, Oh my God is this really happening?” And I had already made hotel reservations to attend the inauguration, but I hadn’t made my flight plan yet. So, it





was one of jubilation, disbelief, but it was also one of thank you Jesus, praising God for the victory.

	W:	So, you went to the inauguration? L:	I sure did.

	W:	Can you describe what that was like?



	L:	Oh, indescribable. That next morning I got a call at 7:15 from my daughter and I was like, “Oh my God, what’s wrong?” And she was like, “Mom what day were you gonna go to the inauguration?” I thought about it and I was like, “You’re okay?” And she was like, “Yeah, I’m on the computer and I’m looking at air flights to D.C out of Tampa.” And I was like, “Well, you got to include my friend Casandra ‘cause she and I are the ones traveling together.” So, that next day we had our flight and I’ve never– I don’t think I’ve ever been in a setting with so many people where there weren’t any arguments or, you know, everybody loved each other and they were respectful of each other. It was crowded, to even get on the train to go to the inauguration there were lines, and lines, and lines, of people. I mean I never saw an argument or anything. I’ve just never been around thousands and thousands of people were everybody got along. And even going to the inauguration when it actually happened there were just tears flowing, it was just sinking in that it was actually happening. It was cold, there were snowflakes that morning which we took lots of pictures of. Even before that, I went to some receptions. One night we stayed in this home of a friend of mine’s in-laws and they had this pre-inauguration formal party, we dressed up, it was just a lot of jubilation. And after he said the oath and it was over, then it seemed like it got





twenty degrees colder. Before then, you didn’t know it was cold. We had on warmers in our gloves and in our jackets, but all of a sudden there was this chill or this freeze when it was all over and then we decided, “Listen, go. It’s over now.” I mean, it was extremely cold, but because of the emotions and we were all hyped up, we didn’t realize how cold it was at the time. But it was just something that I– and I actually did a journal and shared it with at the time, High Springs Herald Alachua, about what was going on every day and they actually published it. But it was amazing. It was just amazing. And I’m glad I went.

	W:	What’re you doing right now to ensure President Obama’s 2012 reelection?



	L:	I’ve always been a community activist so I make sure people are registered. I make sure that people know when early voting starts and so I canvas neighborhoods for voter registration. I also registered my sorority, Zeta Phi Beta Sorority, as a third party registrant. So we can also conduct voter registration drives and so in the next few weeks I’ll still be canvasing reminding people. And I also want to ensure that other people are elected that can assist him in carrying out his agenda.

	W:	Is there a specific policy or law or issue that President Obama supports that you really like and you believe he will deliver, if awarded a second term?

	L:	Healthcare reform. I’m gainful employed full-time and I have healthcare, but I also know I want other people to have Healthcare. I work at a place now, I work at the Public Defender’s Office where we help indigent clients. So I know in my daily walk that there are a lot of uninsured people out there. And I also know that when I go to the hospital or the doctor, especially the hospital, I’m helping pay for





those people who go to receive healthcare at the hospital that don’t have insurance. So, that’s one of things that I want to see, make sure that it continues and it may need tweaking, but that all people have healthcare and education is my second top priority.

	W:	What do you fear most about this election?



	L:	I’m hoping that people will continue to get out and stay fired up and vote. But I fear that the age of about eighteen to about twenty-five, that they won’t understand the importance of getting out to vote. So, that’s my fear. Is that age group will not be complacent and think they’re gonna do what they want to do and not come out and vote. So, I’m hoping that we can keep all of our supporters fired up and hungry to go out and vote.

	W:	So much is depicted on the future though, why is it that you think young people aren’t or may potentially not be as focused and understand the importance of coming out for this very important election?

	L:	One may be education, but I’ve noticed that some of our young people are still about their circle of friends are just about what they are doing. And there’s a pastor that says, “My people perish because of lack of knowledge.” And I don’t think that they get it, that your vote is your voice, and we can complain every day, but if we don’t go out and vote then we’ll continue to complain. But at least if you vote, you’ve tried to make a difference, you’ve tried to determine the path that our country is going, or our state is going, or our local government is going. So, I just think that they need a vision about what they really want their future to be.

	W:	How confident are you that President Obama will win reelection?





	L:	I’m very confident that he’s going to do it again. Very confident. I strongly believe that he will. With his domestic agenda, foreign policy, he’s second to none. I mean, he’s top. Mitt Romney can’t hold a candle to him in a lot of respects and I think I really believe, strongly believe, that he will win a second term.

	W:	Can you please share a memorable moment, even if it’s a small one, in the way a specific family member or friend reacted when you first shared the news of President Obama’s victory with them?

	L:	Well, this is a lady in our neighborhood, not necessarily a family member, but when I was canvasing the neighborhood she needed an absentee ballot and, so, I helped her fill the paperwork out requesting an absentee ballot. And I said, “Call me when it comes in so I can help you fill it out.” And so, she called me and I was out of town and I just got back in town and she left another message, “Alena, I need to vote for the president and I need you to come and help me vote.” She was in her nineties and she called me a third time before I was able to get there and when I got there, she actually cast her ballot. I mean, she was saying, “I don’t know if he’s going to win, but I sure want to vote for him. I want this Black man.” And, he won before she died in January after the inauguration and I went by to talk to her and she was in tears. That was just one of the proudest things.

She died shortly after and I thought, well she felt that her work was done. We got a Black president and something she kept saying she never would have imagined, and my mom I’ve heard a lot of senior citizens say that in their lifetime they never would have thought that we would have an African American president in their lifetime. So, just hearing those stories and knowing that those





people played a part and felt that they played a part in getting him elected was just awesome.

	W:	Okay, well thank you very much. I appreciate the interview. L:	Oh, you’re welcome.

[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Lisa Mueller, September 26, 2017 Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, November 8, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 27, 2019