AAHP 356; Douglas and Carter; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 356 Altamease Douglas and Margaret Carter African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed on February 27, 2008

21 minutes | 11 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 356

Interviewee: Altamease Douglas and Margaret Carter Interviewer:

Date: February 27, 2008



	I:	I’m glad you all are here, and thank you for coming. Okay? We’ll start with— would you tell us a little bit about you and your experiences at A.L. Mebane.

	D:	Okay, I started school in 1940. I:	Okay, and you are?

	D:	I’m Altamease Douglas, Altamease Evans Douglas; my maiden name is Evans.



And I started school here in 1940 in the first grade. And I made two grades in one year. When I started, they put me in second grade. Because, you know, my mother had taught me how to read, how to count, the alphabet, so they put me in second grade. And I finished in 1951. And my experience here was just absolutely wonderful, even though there were a lot of things we did not have. But we excelled anyway, in spite of it. We didn’t have—well, we didn’t have, of course, we didn’t have air conditioning. We had wood heaters. And the boys would go outside; beneath the school, the wood was stacked. And they would have to go out and bring the wood in to keep the classroom warm. And summertime, you know, we just sweated it out. Because it was just hot. But if you are not used to anything differently, I guess it didn’t seem to be all that bad, because we were not used to air conditioning. But I walked to school. I lived three miles from the school. I lived by an area called Burnetts Lake.

	I:	Where’s that?



	D:	That’s between Higgs and Alachua. I:	Okay.





	D:	You know where that is? Okay. And so, I walked to school every day, and school started around eight-thirty; we got out at four. It would be freezing cold, and scorching hot in the summer time. But you know, it sort of rowed full of us, and we had fun along the way. In class, we had wonderful teachers, in spite of the fact that that we didn’t have adequate materials, and the books that we had were passed down from the other schools and the pages were torn out. The first day of school we’d be racing to get to the best books, you know? But again, in spite of that, we excelled. You know, we were doing—making good grades was just important to us.

	I:	Indomitably.



	D:	Yes, it was important for us to make good grades, because we didn’t want to be—well back then children could be real cruel. They would say “dummies.” And we just wouldn’t want that. And our teachers were actually the ones, and they not only took interest in our academics, but they took personal interest in us.

Because when I was in the tenth grade, I was chosen to be the queen, Miss ACT. And my homeroom teacher, Marianne Burgess, Mr. Lymus Burgess’ sister, she took me to Gainesville, to make sure that I had an outfit and everything. And of course, my mother paid for it; but she didn’t have to do that. But that’s the kind of interest that, that teachers took in their students.

	I:	Teachers had feelings.



	D:	Yes! And when I was in eleventh grade, I was chosen the football team’s sweetheart. She took me to Jacksonville with her sister; one of her sisters and a classmate, my best friend; to make sure I had the right evening gown. It was





just—it was like a family. The parents and students, parents and teachers at that time, we worked together. Parents didn’t go to the school to beat up teachers.

You know, it was a—



	I:	They were waiting on you to get home.



	D:	Yeah! Because they would find out before you would even—! [Laughter] I:	Right yeah. [Laughter]

	D:	If Ms. Burgess or Mrs. Willis told my mother something that I misbehaved, I can just—I knew I was going to be punished. You know? All they would have to do is say, “I’m gonna tell Ms. Lettie.” My mother’s name was Mary Lewson. And I knew that I better straighten up. And there were wonderful extracurricular activities for us to be involved in. We, of course we had sports, football and basketball. We didn’t have all the other things that the high schools have now, sports programs. But we had cheerleaders

	I:	We had a cheerleader earlier in one of the interviews. She brought her stuff, too! [Laughter]

	D:	We had the band, such as it was. It was small, but we had the band. And we had the chorus. Ms. [Inaudible 4:58] was our music teacher. And Home Economics, Mrs. Burgess, Mrs. Evans before Mrs. Burgess—Ms. Evans and Ms. Burgess were our Home Ec teachers. Not at the same time; it was Ms. Evans and then Ms. Burgess. And we just—it was good. It was good.

	C:	My name is Margaret Carter. I graduated from Douglass in 1946. And there were very few people in my grade. And there were three of us who had classes with the eleventh and twelfth grade, because at that time, in the upper grades, the





classes were small. So, we had to combine them, the eleventh and twelfth grade, tenth and eleventh grade, if necessary. So actually, in twelfth grade when I graduated, there was only two elementary.

	I:	And how many did you start with? Because there were so few, because through our interviews, a lot of our interviewees have said that their classes started out strong, but a lot of folks had to stay home to help and to work; to help support their family.

	C:	When we were in ninth grade, when we graduated, we marched from ninth to tenth.

	I:	Really?



	D:	Yeah.



	I:	Marched!



	C:	With the graduates. I:	Really?

	C:	We had robes, and we had long, white outer dresses.



	I:	So, that was kind of your transition from one grade level to the next?



	C:	Yes. Ninth grade to tenth grade, we went along with the twelfth grade. Because you know it was all fixed up. Yeah, it was all very formal. [Laughter] But, to tell you a little bit about the history. There were, as I read, there were concerned parents. And they wanted a public school. So, they got together in 1886 for that. They gathered money, raised money. It was wonderful. So, the school was built in 1908. And it—well, they had classes until the school was burned. In 1925, they rebuilt it.





D:   At Douglass?



	I:	And this was Douglass, in High Springs? C:	Mmhm.

I:    Really? In 1908?



C:  1908. It was rebuilt then. They did it for us, so this is before. It’s from the school board. And they did get it for them, they got funds from Rosenwald. Because at that time there were Rosenwald schools?

I:    Mmhm.



	C:	And they got funds from Rosenwald. And that’s when they built the second school. What else? That’s the school. When they built the second school, there was only one teacher and the supervisor.

	I:	In the whole school?



	C:	Yes, that was the one teacher at the school and a supervisor. I:	How many students?

	C:	I don’t know. But I can remember all us talking about the one-teacher schools. I never went to a one-teacher school, but I could hear they were talking about the one-teacher schools. And I wasn’t one of them, but I started wondering how in the world could they manage from first all the way up? But they did! So, evidently, several classes were being taught at the same time.

	I:	Well, but tell me some of the things you were involved with in school.



	C:	I was only in—the only extracurricular activities we had was chorus and basketball. We didn’t have any football, or band, or anything like that.

	I:	So you all had chorus and basketball, you had—?





	D:	We had chorus—because I was in the chorus, Ms. Swent was our music teacher. We had basketball, I didn’t play basketball even though everybody thought I should, because I was so tall. And we had, in Home Economics class, we had the Future Homemakers of America. It was an effigy to life.

	I:	Back then, yes! And then, the homemaking class was life lessons. C&D: Oh, yes!

	I:	How to cook, how to sew, how to do those kinds of things. D:	How to set the table.

	C:	Anything and everything, yes. Mmhm.



	D:	And you chew with your mouth—it’s crazy. Children aren’t taught. You don’t chew with your mouth open, you don’t speak when your mouth is full. You don’t put your elbows on the table. Taught us how to cut our meat; just everything.

	I:	So—



	C:	They taught us where to place your forks and silverware, knives; all but where the places gonna mingle. All that stuff. And you know, those kind of things were instilled in me. And now, when I see it, it always comes back to what I was taught.

	I:	Those were life lessons that you still take with you, and the pride; you know, in the last day or so, we’ve had people come in, the most common thing was the expectations and the discipline of what you did at school. School was expected. You were going to get an education. And those people at your schools were your village. Those people took care of you, whether it was someone that was involved at school, or someone knew of your parents, and knew someone at





home that, if you got in trouble at school, before you would get home, somebody was waiting there. [Laughter] Somebody was waiting for you!

	C:	Our teachers told us, and I’m sure that it’s true, that they were responsible for us from the time we walked out of our gate and closed it until we walked back in. So that meant all along the road, whatever happened, they were responsible for us. No fights; because if you throw a fight, the next morning, you got a whipping from the school. And we would miss school for that. Parents were right along with the teachers. There was no bickering; I can’t remember any parents bickering with teachers about what children did.

	I:	Because it was your job to go to school.



	C:	It was my job; it was, well, the children’s job to go to school. D:	Mmhm!

	C:	And we went to school, too. We went to school. We enjoyed going to school; I did. I enjoyed my time at school.

	D:	I grew up spending time with my sisters and brothers to play with like a lot of the kids. I worked sometimes.

	I:	What about racial issues? Because some of our interviews are saying, “Well, we were in our school, so it was segregated there. So, we did not have to deal with the kinds of things of integration,” versus having some folks say that Mr. Mebane was the principal at ACT for the years, he would have them stay later so that they would get out of school after the other high school so there wouldn’t be that exchange, or there wouldn’t be those conflicts. Not that there were, but to avoid those kinds of things.





	D:	That’s exactly what happened. Because we didn’t interact with the White kids. And the only time that there was anything similar to a racial issue is when we were walking home, when they would pass on the school bus, and there would be a lot—you know, things. But beyond that, we just weren’t in it.

	I:	So, there were buses, but— D:	We just didn’t have the buses.

	C:	Buses were for them. No matter how far we lived, we had to walk to school. And very few, if any, parents had cars at that time.

	D:	Mmhm, we sure didn’t. C:	Very few parents.

	D:	It’s been really, really cold. There was a teacher that lived in front of us, her name was Mrs. Mary Jones. She taught at the schools that you just described, the one-room schools? She taught in Bland, and she taught out in Mt. Nebo. And our mother would pay her—as poor as we were, she would pay her to drop me off. She would have to come to Alachua, drop me off so I wouldn’t have to walk so far, get caught in the cold.

	C:	And when you’d get to school, we wouldn’t even be able to write. Be numb. D:	Actually, our fingers would be numb. You couldn’t actually use a pencil.

	I:	There was a mention of inspections at school. D:	Oh, yes! [Laughter]

	I:	In that sense, tell me about—I want you to tell me a little about that. Because it was just, you knew what was expected, and you were inspected to make sure that you’d done what you needed to do.





	C:	Our nails? We put them on the table. We were inspected; your nails, your teeth. And even your ears, to see if they were clean. So after that was done for so long, you knew it was going be done, so you had to get it—

	D:	It was a terrible thing. And the reason I say that, because the teacher would have one person to do the inspection. And that person would get up, and he says, “Altamese Harris, call. Her teeth are clean. Her clothes are dirty. Her shoes are…” you know, whatever it is. Whatever. We didn’t—it was so silly. But since I’ve been an adult, I realize how insensitive—

	I:	You think that? And I think that’s what Roger King said in the last interview, too. “I look back over all of the things that we went through, and I think, as an adult, my goodness! You know, there were good things, but I have to reflect back and think, ‘Look how harsh those kinds of things could have been.’”

	D:	Exactly. Exactly.



	I:	But you know, it was something that stayed with them—and that’s what he said. He said, “I’ll take those things with me,” because those were the expectations. The teachers were nurturers, the teachers were teachers. Miss Helen was talking about how they were taught to write. When you could not write, the teacher would take your hand and guide your hand to teach you how to write, and to do it correctly. You’re sitting, speaking. Ms. Parker was here, she was sitting on—I had to sit up straight! [Laughter] Because those were the kinds of things that were instilled in you. And as we summarize, because we have a little bit of time left, I want the two of you to think about just the one thing that impacted you the most that you carry on in your life, through your experiences at Douglass, or at





Mebane, or through ACT. Throughout your life, that’s prepared you for life. What was the one thing?

	D:	You want to go first?



	C:	Mine actually was the teachers. And the one teacher that really impacted my life is Mrs. Langley.

	I:	How so?



	C:	Okay. She seemed as if she cared about me a lot. And my mother told me, she said, well at that time we were selling sandwiches at school. Because we didn’t have money, the county did not appropriate money, for field trips or whatever we did at school. So we saw ourselves to school, and my mother was still there. I remember one year Ms. Langley told me, “Butter, not Crisco.” [Laughter] “And you will try to run you.” And whatever I was told to do, I really tried to do that, because I knew that I wanted to go to school. And all the way through that, I had to grasp as much as I could.

	I:	And now you take that with you.



	C:	Yes. And I think that was real, really the best thing that really could’ve happened to me.

	D:	I think the thing that helped me most is the fact that my teachers always would say, “Do the very best you can, no matter what it is.” Do the very best you can. And that has been a part of my life, to do the very best I can. When I worked for this physician at University of Florida, you can always say, “Altamese, you’re doing a fine job.” And I told him, I said, “I will do the very best I could, even if I





want to be a maid. Because what I do represents me.” Because that’s what I’ve always been taught.

	I:	And the pride, and the value of that. Mmhm, mmhm.



	D:	And I was not only taught that at school, I was taught that at home. Don’t half-do anything.

	I:	Well, thank you, ladies, for being part of history today. And we appreciate that my children will grow from learning from this. Thank you for being a part of it.

	D:	It’s been my pleasure. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Ryan Morini, September 19, 2018 Audit-edited by:	Jennifer Romero, October 29, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 25, 2019