AAHP 372; Stevens; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 372 Roberta Stephens African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Ryan Morini and Priscilla Stephens Kruize on April 20, 2015 1 hour, 17 minutes | 31 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 372

Interviewee: Roberta Stephens

Interviewer: Ryan Morini, Priscilla Stephens Kruize Date: April 20, 2015



	S:	Then, what they would do, they would go make barrels of soup, and fed the people who were sick at home. So my sisters, even though they were young, maybe between ten and fifteen years old, helping deliver the soup by whatever they had to put it in at each home. So they helped with that. I was too young to do any of it, I hadn’t even started school. I used to just sit on one of the steps— our back step. My mother had, well, we had a stove, something to cook on.

Sometimes, my mother would cook. When we first—shortly after we first came, moved to Quincy, we had nothing. Actually, we were used to sleeping on the floor when it was necessary. We had no shoes all on that time to wear. But occasionally, we did get them. We did get to the place, also, that we had shoes all the time. So, where do I go from here? [Laughter] I’m trying to think. After the flu, we moved from the house we were staying, right beside the railroad track.

And it was deep embankment, and train was like—you could kind of look down on it. So, in World War I-era, I might be—this might not be close enough associated, but World War I ended, and the men came home. The soldiers were dismissed, and they came home. And they rode on this freight train with seating area on it. And everybody knew when the train was coming through. It was close to our house where we were living at. We’d run out to the edge, saying “The train’s coming with the soldiers today!” The news got by mostly by talking. People walked for miles to spread news about things that happened: somebody had died, somebody was sick. People had to do the best they can without the facility they needed. And so, we stood out there and watched the soldiers leaning out





the window and waving their hands at the people who would be there to watch them pass through. And so, passed through the railroad track that’s not too far from here, now. And we would—they came home, but most of them just didn’t know anything about the situation. Maybe the older people who did know, like my father, he didn’t talk much about it, because I was too little to understand it anyway. [Laughter] So then, after that, we started school. The children went to school at that time. A lot of them didn’t wear shoes all the time, unless it was cold. You had to have shoes for the wintertime more so than the summer. We would go to school, and teachers would use switches to punish. Or make you stand in the aisle of the school—it wasn’t a school building, it was a church.

Blacks were going, housing each other for schools in their churches. We would go and sit on the benches like they have. There’s nothing in front of you to write on. We had it in our laps.

	M:	Which church was that? S:	[Inaudible 5:00]

	M:	What church did you go to school at?



	S:	I went to school in a church called First Elizabeth. The house is still here, but it’s in a different location. It was not too far from Ross, and we to pay a nickel a week, a month, or something like that. I didn’t know what it was, but everybody had to give the man that was teaching, whose name was Preston. Aaron Preston, I think his name was Aaron Preston. Everybody gave him a nickel, a dime, or something a month, a week. I don’t know which it was, because the parents were responsible for getting the money to him. So after that, we moved





closer, into the high school. There was a high school called Old Dunbar. Now how it got built, I don’t know. But when I know anything, we were large enough, my mother sent us without having to worry about—we would be safe to go by ourselves. Because I had four sisters and five brothers. All of us were sent to school, and would go every day to school. We went to several schools: the elementary school, everywhere. And the private school we knew about that we had to pay to go, because Preston man, he would have a big, wide strap about that wide, a razor strap we used to sharpen the razors on it. And so, that’s what he would use to punish. Yeah. After we left that school, we went to another school. Ms. Hattie Parramore was the teacher there—only teacher there. She would sit in front of the class and teach ABCs, as the call it, for the persons who just went for the first time. Like my baby brother. He started school at another elementary school. It’s right up, not too far from here either. And if you were late, you would get a whipping with one of those long switches, about long as that mirror, there. They either would get a whipping, or they would take them to the cemetery. There was a cemetery across there. So she said, “We’ll take you to the cemetery if you do anything wrong, if you miss a spelling word.” So, the younger children were frightened to do anything wrong, because their parents or the teacher would punish them. And one of the punishments for the larger ones was sat in the middle in aisle and hold your hands out long until they felt like they were going to break in the shoulder. But we, they had to go through that. We carried my baby brother to that kind of school, or to that school. Lake Skillet, it was called. Lake Skillet. It’s an AME church now. So, we went to that school. Our





young brother, so when he started, I don’t know what he did, but they were going to carry him down to the cemetery and leave him. That’s what the teacher told him, to tell the bigger boys to take him. And sometimes, they put a burlap bag over their head. And they went that way. The sisters and brothers, when they take a little one to like that, like they going the cemetery, and oh, the school, we just cried! Cried, cried. But I do remember that I was a good student. Because I was staying at the head of the line. We had spelling. You’d get up for any class. You’d get up and stand in line, and wait until your time to read or to spell. And if you spelled better than everybody else, you stayed at the head of the line. And I always stayed at the head of the line. And we would hold ourselves along. We were going to pick our word out, and no certain thing but that. [Laughter] They’d pick our words out, and I had never missed a word. As long as I didn’t miss a word, I stayed to the head of the line. My sister that was next to me—she’s passed on; she was a hundred years old, too. A hundred, and three days more, before she crashed. She spelled the word. When they called the word, I said, “That’s not my word! That’s not my word!” And the teacher was she saying, “Just go right on.” That teacher was named Reverend Roundtree. She was, just went right on and let my sister cut me down, so she got at the head! I cried. And my sister wanted to give it back to me, but they didn’t want her to do it like that. [Laughter] So, well, after that, we got large enough to go to the high school. It was the Dunbar High School. It sat on—it’s Martin Luther King now. I don’t know if whether the streets had any names then or not, but it’s on Martin Luther King Boulevard running right up and down, past me here. The school had upstairs,





and I had never seen an upstair building before. So we went in school there pretty good while. Coming up to middle school, and then they build this school, and she has got—

	K:	Stevens.



	S:	Yeah. She’s got her project going. I was in eighth grade when we got there. We didn’t received report cards. If you go to school one year in one grade, you got promoted to the next grade the next year. It was left up to you or your parents to decide whether you was allowed or not to go the next grade. We didn’t have any books issued to us. We had books that were handed down from the White group. White people’s schools, they had books. And when they got real old, they gave them the new books, and we got the used books. We didn’t have no brand-new books. I remember when I first got a brand-new book. It was a thin geography book, and I lost it shortly after I first got it. [Laughter] Oh, I was so afraid! What in the world are they going to do with me? I don’t have this book to turn back in to them. We had what we called a bureau or a dresser. About as long as that mirror right there, and a side over here with a drawer. You could pull this drawer out.

Somehow or the other, my book had slipped up under that drawer, and it stayed there. And I was able to find it when it came time to turn it in. And that’d be at Stevens High School. That’s where I was, Stevens High. We went, and we were the first, they had to get in line to come in. When the bell ring, you came in, you got in line according to grade, and went to your classroom. That was what we did at Stevens High, and that was in eighth grade. It went all the way from eight to twelve. And graduation, they had not had graduation as they do now, because





there was no building to have an assembly. So they had graduation every year at Arnett Chapel AME church. They asked the people who were graduating, the students that were graduating, to wear white. New white dress. I don’t know what the men wear. I don’t recall. But we always had to get a white dress to graduate in for that short while until we got an auditorium. I think that room on the side there was put there, it became the dining hall. They started giving food. How that food came in, we didn’t have any food. We had to bring our lunches when we were at Dunbar—backing up now, we had to bring our lunches from home. I remember it being some bacon and bread, or whatever that they house had for them to eat. Or they had a bucket and put some vegetables in. While we were at the churches, we didn’t have any food. Sometimes we would bring a lot of peanuts. Large peanuts. Because a lot of people grew those! This teacher, Miss Hattie, the [inaudible 17:23] teacher in the church. She would sit up, and she’d eat all day long. But she better not see you eating. And she would see you eating something, she’d ask if you would come to her and give her some of it. They would share their little lunches with the teacher. She was the only teacher, but they taught every grade that came there. All the way up to eighth grade, anyway. One teacher taught that. I taught at almost the same school. This is well ahead of time; I hadn’t even gotten graduated yet. My daddy was teaching at the Highbridge. Highbridge is out this, out the end of Martin Luther King, when you go that way, go south from there. He taught there, but he had a teacher living in Gretna, and she got sick and died. And he had to get another teacher to help him go out. There was two of us, me and this teacher, that went there. She taught





there, and she got sick and died. My dad—they never did selections like they do now by the superintendent. But he got the superintendent to let him get one.

Well, he told him that he had to get somebody to take—to come out. So they asked me to do it. I hadn’t finished with high school. I hadn’t just finished high school, and I went and taught. I taught, and I start teaching until I graduated. I was pretty good at everything, but I didn’t like social studies. [Laughter]

K:   It’s easy stuff. It is!



	S:	But so, I taught. I was just getting twenty-five dollars a month! That’s what they were giving me, twenty-five dollars a month. And my dad wasn’t getting much, he was getting about, he went for about twenty-five, twenty-seven dollar. One [inaudible 20:18] and the money was so scarce at that time. Until one Christmas, my dad would go to, like, Blountstown and all, and we’d have to stay because he couldn’t walk there every day! They had no cars or nothing to travel in, and he didn’t have a mule or a horse. So, he went and stayed a whole week and came back. So, one year he came back, he said—back home at the Christmastime— he said—he called my mother Rosa—“Rosa, tell all—get all the children to get their things ready; we’re going home for Christmas!” Home was Marianna. That’s where we all were born—all but the baby boy. We were going in Marianna, but never really lived there enough to know anything about it. But my older sister, my older one, the older one did know something about it. But naturally, I was too little. [Laughter] I was the youngest there all out of the tip of the family. Yeah.

But anyway, I started there at the teaching. Then he—the superintendent let them select a teacher who just took the burden off their hands; looked like that’s





what they were doing. And I started from there to teaching, and taught there one or two years with this lady that was already there. And said he would come in, and we moved our—after teaching there for a while, I decided I would try to go and make it. So he and—my dad and I went to school, to go to summer school. Later on, we started using summer school; a preacher would drive us in the summertime to Tallahassee. And I was teaching, and the superintendent came to—I was teaching in the school, where I had to finish the term out with the lady who got sick and died. One lady was already working there, so there was two of us working there at that church, and [Inaudible 23:07]. So the superintendent came out there that one day, and he walked in the classroom. He go into the schools and visit the rooms, and I guess it was required of him then that he had to make some contact with the schools that were going on. Because we didn’t have anything nice set out for them. And so, he came and looked around. We was sitting out on the floor—I had second grade then. He looked around, and he said, “Oh, where is the teacher?” I was out among the students! [Laughter] And I wasn’t any bigger than the second graders to him! He say, “Where is the teacher? Who is the teacher?” After a while, I told him I was the teacher, and I started teaching ever since. So, that’s what I did. I sent myself to school. We had a poor family, real money. I made all my—I’d borrow some money, that used to be in the newspaper or magazine, you’d see where someone was loaning a hundred and some dollars. You could borrow—according to our position, that’s the amount I could borrow. I borrowed money every time to send myself to





summer school and took my courses. I took my courses, and I—what they call that degree, when you haven’t finished four year of college?

	K:	AA. Associate.



	S:	But anyway, I got that degree and I then could go every three years before I renew it. So I renewed, and kept on renewing must’ve been, but I had to borrow the money to go to summer school, working to get enough points to renew my certificate. So, I went on, and finally I got my degree. And [19]52, I got my degree in 1952. Then I wanted to keep on going. I worked at Greenshade during that time, and I was among the few that had a college degree. And so I kept going until I got a masters degree. And I was ashamed to let students, who at the end of the payday period, when the buck was up, they would—the superintendent, the teachers, the principals, would pick up the checks and give it to the students, who’d give it to the teachers who had worked. And so, everybody got their check and whatnot from the principal. And I had to walk out, and everybody knew that if you did that, you come there to the principal to get your check, you didn’t get one. [Laughter] They would draw—the check would be given to a store, a dry good grocery store [inaudible 27:15], the L. Wilson Company downtown. [Inaudible 27:19]. Well anyway, they billed the check, and they took what I owed them out, more than less, more or less, I owed them the money and if I didn’t have the money I could borrow it. After I stopped borrowing through the mail, I could borrow from them, and get enough money to continue going to school. Got my education from the University of Florida. You could take through mail, you could have correspondence course. I sent my assignments in in longhand, in





handwriting! [Laughter] No typewriter or nothing. Nothing to type with in that time. But, that’s what I had to write with.

	K:	How much was your salary, do you remember the first salary that you received?



	S:	My first salary I received, I was not—it was not my job, I was working at somebody’s place, but my first salary, I would think we were getting fifty dollars? Or forty dollars. Before [inaudible 28:55], you were getting forty dollars, I was getting forty, thirty-something or forty dollars a month. That’s what I was getting.

	K:	That was a lot of money!



	S:	Yeah, it was a lot of money at that time. And I bought everything, and since my mother died real early, I bought everything I wore, everything I had. Finally, I passed—the teachers just found out that I was good in math, and they just wanted to use me around. One teacher asked me would I teach for her during the summer, she want teach my class at a college! I said, “No, ma’am!” [Laughter] I didn’t want to teach that little class to college students! I made almost straight A’s in math, but I was not a smart student during that time. And there were a lot of them who would try to ride on you if you were smart. So what else can I say? I have a picture there now showing my graduation from college.

	K:	I showed that to him. From high school, not college. S:	Not college, high school. High school.

	K:	I have it in the museum. Barbara gave me a copy, and I showed it to him.



	S:	Oh, I see. I was the salutatorian of my class. But everybody said that the lady that was principal made a switch because she was very friendly with the one family, and she wanted that person as valedictorian. So, it was raised to her. And





her daughter, her adopted daughter, this lady’s adopted daughter, she was saying not too long ago that she thought that I was the valedictorian.

	K:	You were, but they switched it.



	S:	That’s what she say when I came to her, and I can’t say that it happened, because I have no proof of it. But I do know that I didn’t have to have any—I was the only person who passed the biology test.

	K:	I bet!



	S:	Well, I was taking biology, and I liked it. But that kind of science, and math, anything with numbers, and I was able to make it. By myself. My daddy, after my mother died at age forty-seven, my daddy got married again and moved to Jacksonville. So the only help I got from him going to college was five dollars. He sent me five dollars. And they say he was in Jacksonville bragging on his daughter, what she’s doing now. But, he had stepchildren to take care of. And I just told him to see how much he would send me, and that’s what he sent.

	K:	Five dollars—one time.



	S:	Mmhm, one time. But he’s bragging about his daughter to everybody. [Laughter] K:	They still do that today.

	S:	Now, what we were supposed to say about what? You had some questions you want to say, an area you want to go into?

	M:	Sure. I mean, all of that was great. That’s all very good stuff. If I could just confirm—so, your name is Roberta Pittman Stephens. Is that right? How do you spell Pittman? Is it P-I-T-M-A-N?

	S:	P-I-T-T. Double T.





	M:	Okay. So, and when were you born? S:	I was born February the 19th, 1915.

	M:	And that was in Marietta? Marietta? Not in Quincy. You were born in Marietta? S:	Marianna, right.

	M:	Or, Marianna. Sorry. What were your parents’ names? S:	My daddy’s name was Enoch. Enoch Pittman.

	M:	And your mom?



	S:	My mother’s name Rosalee Bell Pittman.



	M:	So were they both—where were they from? Where did they grow up?



	S:	They grew up in Marietta. Big farmers, owned a lot of land. I remember when the land was broken up and split among the family members. And they had to go to Marianna to get it all settled, so each person would get his appropriate part. I think they had forty acres apiece or something like that. He had a brother that would really [inaudible 35:46]. Dad was really good in numbers. My mother had, I don’t remember her being interested in it, but she saw that we got our lessons, whatever we had to do so that we got it.

	M:	Education was important to them.



	S:	Yes, it was. But I did not like—one thing I didn’t understand: I don’t think we worried about the way we were treated by the opposite race at that time.

Because it was so done when we were born, but it was so many things that we could not do, and somehow or the other, we were brought up not to even worry about it. But it went on until the [inaudible 36:43]. So, we got run out both afraid of that we had any idea that we wouldn’t get, but we knew that it was never





sufficient so far as we were concerned. So. But we had to stay separate, because we got the head of the government. Right now they trying to get together, and the poor president is trying to do the best he can. They gave the rest of them that came before him a chance to show what they could do. So, let him do it!

	K:	That’s the American way.



	S:	Mmhm. But that was so—it was so different. I remember I slipped and went to my daddy. He was out to Highbridge teaching in the church. And I went to school, up here go to school, walk all of the way. It was about a whole mile, a mile and a half. And I walk to school, and he goes over ahead of us because he has to teach his school. And I, we came on back, I went to school, and there was a young lady, they had older than I was, she come to school barefoot. And so, the one day, I went to school barefoot. Because a lot of big children going. I wasn’t big, though! [Laughter] I wasn’t big as they were, and they were going barefooted, so I went barefooted. My mother look: “You didn’t wear the shoes today?” I said—I tell her I didn’t want to wear any. And she said, “Don’t you ever leave this house without your shoes, going to school without your shoes on!” So somehow or other, they kept shoes on our feet. It might not have been but one pair for all occasions. [Laughter]

	K:	And there were nine of you in the family? Nine children?



	S:	Ten children. Five boys and five girls. I had six brothers, but the oldest child died early, before most of us were born. He was, I think he was only eight years old





when he passed. Something like that. It’s a lot more into that, but I can’t think right now. I can’t think—my memory’s not as good.

	K:	You have a good memory.



	M:	Yeah. So all those ten kids, did you have a lot of chores growing up? Was there a lot of stuff you had to do around the house?

	S:	Around the house. Well, wasn’t anything for us to do make up the beds. [Laughter] And sweep with a straw broom. You know anything about straw broom?

	K:	Yes. I don’t know about it in America, but I know about it in Africa.



	S:	Well, we had a lot of straw broom around here, and when it got dry, we go and wring it. And then bring it back to the house. Mostly, my mother would make it up into—take a cord, and wrap it around it, and make a broom out of it and use it.

And the broom and wasn’t much to do in the kitchen but cook food in the iron pots. And if we didn’t have enough space, sometimes they’d build something this high outside. I don’t know what you call them, because I don’t remember seeing it but once. I was in Marianna when we went, with that hundred dollars for the whole family. All of us went there, and we had one place I went. We went from house to house, it was so many around here that lives out in the Jerusalem community. This was the Pittman. Pittman-Bell. I got my granddaddy’s, my mother’s—my granddaddy’s picture right there in the bedroom, now. Yeah. We used to make a big fire in the fireplace, brick fireplace, and have something to hang your iron pot on, cook your food like that. So, I never did learn to cook like





that. I don’t think—they wouldn’t trust the children with much cooking and things like that.

	K:	Lot of fires in fireplace. S:	Say what?

	K:	Children will get burned standing in front of the fireplace.



	S:	Mmhm. Get burned. Around that, get burned too. Go sitting up there to the fireplace, it be real cold, and you legs about to burn up! [Laughter] The rest of you cold! But—and I got those spots on the front of my legs now.

K:  From the heat, from the fireplace. [Laughter] It happened to all of us. Did you have a potbelly stove? In the house, a potbelly, an iron stove? Or, you had a fireplace in your house.

	S:	We had a fireplace. I don’t know any potbelly. I remember where it sat heating the room was at the church. They had a big potbelly stove. I think one of the schools I taught—or they were teaching in the church, and they used that potbelly stove.

	M:	Where did you get your firewood from? Did your dad have to chop it, or did you have to go and collect it?

	S:	You had to go and get it out the woods. And we lived on the farm, and we lived there, because when they all pay rent, they got rid of the woods anyway they wanted, it wasn’t disallowed to cut down a tree and split it up by block, and stack it up at the house. But most of the time, we were living on a farm, we lived on the Key farm—that’s right back here now, right back here on this track over there.

We lived on the Key farm where we shot after we moved from Marianna. And we





stayed there a long time. It was after we left there, we came over in this community. We’re not too far from where we—so really, they in the settlement with the whole family.

	K:	Why did you come to Quincy?



	S:	I don’t know why they came to Quincy. I don’t really know. But I know my dad had a lot of brothers and sisters. So, he had one brother, I really recall myself trying to model myself after him. He left Quincy, and I did not, he had him to know, really know me, but he didn’t know how much I thought about him. And he was just the type of person I just wanted to be, because he was so excellently smart. They say they would get him to do some figuring for the owners of the place. The farm, the big Key farm, everybody knew they would get information from him. But they couldn’t show off about it, and so—you know, and let people know that’s what was happening. But they would come to my uncles for help, for actual figuring sums up, that kind of help, not money. Definitely not money. And the women would cook for the boss man. They would cook for him, sometimes they would bring a little dish of anything, a covered dish to eat. And so, we did a lot things for ourselves.

	K:	Her father was a minister. M:	Ah, okay. I was going to ask.

	K:	I was telling him your father was a minister. S:	My father? No.

	K:	I thought you told me he was a minister.



	S:	No, he wasn’t a minister. He was a teacher.





	K:	Oh, a teacher, sorry. He was a teacher. I thought you said a minister.



	M:	So, he was a teacher. Where did he get his schooling? Did he go to school in Marianna?

	S:	He went to school just like I did, the best I can. Whatever, whoever would teach you. Sometimes, it’s the boss lady in the kitchen. And they got they education, and mostly got enough to teach themselves. Then, when they taught themselves, they start teaching others. So anyway, my family, there was a lot of people that could not read or write in that time, but there were—I didn’t have any in my family, because my dad, his name was Lucius, he left me and went to Tuskegee. He and his wife—[indicating a picture]—look like that was just yesterday! [Laughter] But that doesn’t seem like the olden time! But anyway, both of them my good old dad. The other night, I saw some cousins, where they had— [inaudible 48:28], this time. And two cousins lived in Hawaii. They were here the other day.

	K:	For the birthday. Yeah. Yeah.



	S:	I recall they night similar to this, but I could see myself. I don’t what you call it; you can see yourself when you’re talking, who you’re talking to. And he had me being recorded to somebody I didn’t even know. And she was just laughing down at me, because I didn’t know what was going on! It was not too much bigger than this. [Laughter] But anyway… I didn’t even ever finish in learning to type.

	K:	You didn’t learn to type?



	S:	I learned, I could type, but it was too slow to make up your pays with.





	K:	I learned to type in high school. But they don’t have typing anymore, it’s the computer. Well, there’s still typing, but the computer—

	S:	Mmhm.



	M:	It’s different. You don’t have to—the keys don’t get stuck, and—



	S:	I don’t even use the cell phone. Because my eyesight is bad. I can’t see too well. In fact, I don’t have but one eye—one good eye. I can’t see at all out of my right eye. And my left eye is not the same, not good.

	K:	No bright light.



	M:	If I could ask, did your mom do any work for money, or did she just take care of the house when you were growing up?

	S:	She took care of the house, mostly. I do remember her stringing tobacco. You know, this was a tobacco area once upon a time. And, see, everybody learned to string tobacco. I was always short, and thought everybody that was taller was older. Because on the job, there was some young ladies: they were younger than I, much younger, but I was little and I didn’t weigh a hundred pounds! [Laughter]

	K:	You still don’t! [Laughter]



	S:	But they thought I was too young to do it, so they all—this person who, I was a good bit older than she, and they gave her more money because of her size! Instead of asking, they just gave her money because of her size. [Inaudible 51:44]. But they would give me more responsible things to do than they would the others.

	K:	Because she was smart.





	S:	But I guess they figured they weren’t supposed to because I was too young to get this big, like the other bigger girls. Brought kids out to Highbridge. This girl, I was maybe two or three years older than she. But when they’re working tobacco, they got more pay than I. And so I stayed there until I finished high school, and that’s when I started teaching, before I graduated from college and got a degree, any kind of degree.

	K:	How many years did you work before you retired? S:	Thirty-seven.

	K:	Thirty-seven years. Wow! M:	That’s a long stretch.

	S:	That’s the number the state gave me.



	K:	Yeah, but you’ve been retired about 37 years, too, haven’t you?



S:  Thirty-five. I was giving myself thirty-five, but I should have been given 37. So, that was it—oh, this ain’t University of Florida. This is him behind me. He was registered under this school.

M:   Oh, yeah?



S:  [inaudible 53:46] by that plantation up here, there’s a road back here. Probably came from [inaudible 53:21].

K:   Oh, yes, yes, your son. Didn’t he—I thought he graduated from FAMU.



	S:	He did. But he took agriculture, and once you took agriculture, then you could get a job. The state would help you get a job placement, although the job you get would be under the state.





	K:	Wow, I didn’t know that. I’ll bet a lot of students didn’t know that. But now, jobs are hard to come by. But in the old days, there were more jobs available, and Black people were more needed. Now, Black people are not needed so much anymore, so jobs don’t—you know, before, there were many, many jobs.

Agricultural jobs. But agriculture jobs don’t exist anymore. And if they do, people from Haiti and from Cuba, they are the ones who have the job.

	S:	I have some pictures of my husband with his White crew. He took men around and repaired homes for the poor people who couldn’t. Even if they were a rental home, it belonged to the man, the houses and porches boards would break, they replaced it, they replaced all that had worn out. And so, I have pictures that he had to take, he had to make a report to the state of Florida. And I have pictures that he had taken with his crew on the job.

	K:	You were two educated parents, and you educated your son. That’s a record within itself coming from that time. Two educated parents, college degree parents, and your son went on to college, too. Nowadays, the children don’t want to go to school. It’s not the same interests.

	S:	But do you know some of the richest people in the world might be dropouts? And they know this!

	K:	Yeah, of course, and they say, why do they need the education? They have the money. Because see, education now is more, being educated is not like it was. The motivation is not the same. In our day, we could see—I shouldn’t say—in my day, I’ll speak for my day: education was really a means of progress. You could see that it was a means of growth. Children today don’t see that. They can see





everything without education. They can realize everything without education, and that was not true in your time and my time. We have other means. And the values are very different today than they were. I mean, you had to do better than your parents. That was unheard of, somebody went below their parents.

	S:	Really, when I graduated from high school, I count the guys that were in there, and the ladies, and—well, I was twenty years old when I finished high school. And there were some—we had two that were twenty-five.

	K:	Shame. Had to work.



	S:	I don’t know why. They, some of them worked in the factory, cut and dried tobacco, and some worked in tobacco over all seasons. They worked that green tobacco, you set it out, you—

	K:	They were determined to finish. But now, they don’t have—my opinion, it’s no interest. Children more interested in sneakers, getting a pair of two hundred dollar sneakers, and putting gold on the teeth, and the values—a book has no significance like it did to us. Still, my special thing, I value books more than anything. Our children—see, we didn’t have movies. In my day, movies came when I was teenager to the public. And probably, movies for you didn’t exist. But now, the children have television. They don’t have to read. Well, they don’t see the importance of reading, because they get everything visual. You know, they hear everything. It’s unfortunate, too; we’re losing a lot. Integration—I want it on record—was not a good thing for the Black people.

	S:	Well, I was just thinking today as I look at all these things, that people can get everything done, or everything that’s around here. Somebody got smart enough





to start it off and do it. Without any teaching. Experiment. Experience. They crawl through anything, no matter how hard it seems, until they find something good will come out, and then they take hold of that. And it begins to expand when they do it like that. So, that’s how we got all these things now. You don’t hardly have to do anything! Or do it, take a machine; robots are taught nowadays to do so much that people do. And all these other things, like there’s nothing you can’t get done now, hardly, without a machine. Without some kind of mechanic thing that—we had nails, one type of nails. It might bend! [Laughter] Children would cover it up. We had tacks for schools and things like that, but we didn’t have what we got now. And usually, any much of it is done by people who didn’t even finish high school. And sometime, “I’ll stop, I’ll go get me a job doing such and such,” and it has paid off with a lot of people. But it’s not a good thing to do.

	M:	I was thinking of another thing that’s different. Today, you go to the grocery store and you can get all kinds of stuff. Did you keep a garden growing up? Or, when you were on the farm, what kinds—did you grow things for yourself, or were you just growing for—did you raise your own food?

	S:	I didn’t raise my own food. We grew—we had some peas. We had greens for a while. In that property, we put this lawn out here, and we didn’t bother that in our part. We were using the other; the houses hadn’t been built yet. And we had collard greens, and peas. That was the only two things I know. [Inaudible 1:02:00] right over there where—that house over there.

	M:	So, where did you get your food from? S:	From the grocery store. Had to buy it.





	M:	Well, so where was the grocery store? Was there— K:	When you were a child there were no grocery stores. S:	Oh, no!

	K:	He’s talking about that time. S:	Way back?

	M:	Yeah, when you were growing up.



	S:	When I was growing up? Oh, we went to the grocery store. We made money, and we bought flour, and milk, and bacon. We did have a hog or two. We did have—I know what I was about finished school, about five or six years we had hogs all the time. We had least two or three hogs. And we used to cure our own pork, and didn’t smoke house. We had a patch on outside, on the outer edge of the house. But they used to have buckets, or some kind of mode in it, that you could burn coal there, and it won’t affect anything but give off heat. And we smoked our meat that way. And we didn’t have any—

	K:	I remember the cellar. We had a underground cellar for the potatoes, and an above cellar for the pork.

	S:	Yeah, we had back then—



	K:	And another place for the flour and the corn, the grits; we made everything. I never—as a child, I never went to the store.

	S:	How you made the grits? We didn’t have it where I was.



	K:	Corn. I grew up on a farm. I was in St. Hebron with granddaddy. S:	You had to take it to—where was it?





	K:	No, we did it all ourselves. We had a grinding—to make our grits, make the cornbread.

	S:	I don’t know about that, now, because we didn’t have to do that. K:	Yeah. She may have been a city girl.

	S:	I probably was teaching during that time.



	K:	Well, you finished high school in [19]35. I was born in [19]38. S:	I never seen anybody, or heard anybody say they made grits.

	K:	Yeah, we made grits. Yeah. My granddaddy. We had a real farm. We had cows, and horses, and we had pear trees, and grapefruit trees.

	S:	I remember once, we had—I got to recall being called a “city girl!” [Laughter]



	K:	We had eighty acres of land. Yeah, that’s what I was saying. She was a city girl, because see, you moved to Quincy, in the town. And we were out in the country.

	S:	I wasn’t big enough to do—I couldn’t do anything then. It had to be several years after that. Since I was a little child.

	K:	You still little. You still little. [Laughter] You’re not a child anymore, but you’re still little. Which is real cute.

	S:	I’m not little.



	K:	Look at that face! You’re not little, that’s true.



	S:	The one thing I found out, you can always be nice to people, and people will be nice to you. That is the one thing.

	K:	Absolutely. No matter where you are. She’s the reason we have the Black heritage museum. Because I came up here to visit her, and her minister came to visit her. And Rev. Plummer said to me, “We need a Black heritage museum in





Quincy, Florida.” And, so it happened in this house. It was born. So she’s the godmother, and Rev. Plummer is the godfather, of the Black heritage museum.

	S:	I don’t remember doing anything there, other than what, the few little things that I—.

	K:	She’s done amazing things to the museum.



	S:	I meant to ask you this, that book that’s down on the floor, what was that used for?

	K:	It was a dictionary I think. S:	That’s a dictionary?

	K:	I believe it’s a dictionary.



S:   That was my husband’s mother’s book, and it’s got some [inaudible 1:06:45] and I never even, it seems so big, I didn’t try to lift it up. We used to have a Bible that we had set in a case like the—

	K:	Yeah, somebody donated a Bible to the museum, from his mother. He was eighty-six when I met him, he’s been dead many years. And it was his mother’s Bible, and it was in a box. I have a collection of Bibles, quite a few of them Black heritage. And I had a student who was in her eighties, and she had big belly pot that she gave to me, it was her mother’s. There’s a lot of old things in the museum that we can tell the children about.

	S:	Do you have pots you cook in or wash in?



	K:	We have pots, that pot you did both in. You cooked, you made soap in it, and you cooked, when you were cooking the chitlins, or a big boiling pork or something, you know. The big belly pot, and you used it for food and washing. And the tubs,





the tin tubs, size ten, size—we all had baths in it Saturday night. Those memories, I think they’re so special! The outdoor toilet. You know what I’m going to do in my house in Miami, God willing? I’m going to build an outdoor toilet. The old-fashioned outdoor toilet. I’m going to design it.

	S:	I’m not that outdoorish. [Laughter]



	K:	Yeah, I like it. I like that. I’m trying to collect them. To, you know, there’s one up on Pat Thomas highway, just at Martin Luther King’s Boulevard, at that abandoned—at that empty place where they do cars and sell collard greens.

They have a yellow toilet out there. If I had the means, I’d steal it. A yellow outdoor toilet. It’s just one of these portable ones that you can buy.

	S:	Do they use it now?



	K:	Yes, the people are using it. When they come to wash cars and sell things. But I want to find out where they got it from.

	S:	Between here and Tallahassee, they got things out there they sell. Also, I don’t know what they used for, but they not all from a house, or what do you call, these portable homes?

	K:	Oh, portable, yeah. But I don’t want a portable home. I just want an outdoor toilet.



	S:	But the thing is, they got that, they got it all the way down to a little something like that. For sale, right there by the road. You can see it when you go to Tallahassee. I thought it was for animals, people raise their dogs and things that they—

	K:	I’ll look into that when I go back.



	S:	They got a lot of them. They started off with the portable homes.





	K:	Yeah, but I want to design one that has, it’s an outdoor toilet, but it has all the modern things in it, you know? When I was in South Africa, they had an outdoor toilet, but it was actually a flush. You had a string, you flushed. It was only the toilet, but it was outside.

	S:	Well, you heard me say old Dunbar High School. That was the first high school for people, but they didn’t go to 12th grade until they got Stevens. I don’t think they did. But outside, the toilet that’s right uptown now, between here and old Dunbar was old Crawford Street, and they had a outdoor toilet. If you had to go to the bathroom, this building was built, with about two holes over here, and the bench. A wooden bench and the two holes. And the same thing over there, but they had a wooden petition between; you couldn’t see the fellows when they go to the bathroom. So that’s what they used, an outdoor toilet. And then they had, when they had to flush, they had—actually flushed, they had a string you pull down, and it would flush.

	K:	Well, that’s what. I want to combine the old and the— S:	Why you want it?

	K:	Because it represents memories, you know? I was in China. I went to the zoo to see the pandas, and they had a long sheet of wood, and many holes, all just plain out like that. Just holes in the ground on this plank. And it was a toilet. I was at the zoo in China, in mainland China.

	S:	But was it just holes in the ground?



	K:	Just holes on a piece of wood, but there were toilets. But I have been in a very exclusive restaurant in Argentina, very exclusive, and I went to go to the toilet,





and I was looking, and the toilet was down, a little hole in the ground. You have all kinds of toilets, even—this was in the [19]70s. It may have changed by now, but in the [19]70s.

S:   Are they doing better now?



	K:	I don’t know. That was the last time I was in Argentina, was in the [19]70s. But I went to take my baby, he had to go the bathroom. In some languages you have to demonstrate, because toilet does not exist. Like in Japan, it doesn’t exist. I had some iced tea from—Japanese people are very polite, so they give you something to drink, and sometimes you can take it and sometimes you cannot.

They gave me this tea, and it went straight through me, and oh, Lord, I had to go to the bathroom! And I think the bathroom was upstairs, but I could not get them to understand, because toilet means nothing in Japanese. So I had to demonstrate. [Laughter] And I had that with my baby, too, you know. Life is so interesting. It teaches you to appreciate everything. I was in a country where they stole thumb tacks, and needles, and pins, because when you’re poor you can’t buy things like that. People don’t realize that.

	S:	How’d you get along with the building?



	K:	I can stay. That’s the best, I’m staying, yeah. I’m going stay, and I have my petition to take over the school when the lady’ leases expires. And it’s already there. Isn’t that a blessing? Did you pray for me? Because I asked everybody to pray for me.

	S:	I sure did, and I prayed for my son, too. Because he was on a cruise, boat cruise, and all this weather. And I didn’t sleep, I had two nights I didn’t sleep at all.





	K:	But he was blessed, because two of the cruises ships had some kind of disease. Hundreds of people were sick at a time. Some sort of virus. Did they say what it was?

	M:	I don’t remember what it was.



	K:	But they got sick, so you are blessed. They avoid the bad weather. My husband was a radio operator so I know that when the weather is going to be bad, he’s the first one to know. So, he tells the navigating crew that the storm is coming from the west so the people will go to the east, or to the north. The boats are usually pretty safe, because they have the knowledge in advance, they have radar and everything. They know. So you don’t have to worry. You should have just spoken to me, and I would have told you, “This is okay.”

	S:	I talked with him not too long ago, this afternoon, and this morning.



	K:	He’s back now. That’s her son she’s talking about. We’re going to be coming back to you, okay? Somebody’s donating an organ to me, and they want to give it to me today.

	S:	You know what? Somebody was telling me that they still have the organ that they had ever since I was a little girl, I was young, in eighth grade.

	K:	Where is it?



	S:	I don’t know where it is. They said it was at the church, but I didn’t ever run across it.

	K:	They probably have it stored somewhere. This new preacher is sick, you need to pray for him.

	S:	But you had to pedal it with your feet. Air. Air.





	K:	With air, yes, I grew up with one like that. You pushed the pedals down, and pull these knobs.

	M:	That’s got to be some exercise.



	S:	Now nobody don’t pull it, it looked like a piano and the keys, it looked like a piano.

	K:	I will ask, I will ask Rev. Plummer. He will know, because he just left that church to become presiding elder. And he’s taking me to Marianna or someplace to pick up some furniture for the museum. So, we want to go before it gets too late, and we get there. I will call the man and tell him we can meet him there.

	S:	I hope I have been some help. K:	You have.

	M:	You certainly have.



	S:	I’m not as strong as I used to be. K:	And we’re coming back.

	M:	Would you mind sitting down with me again sometime, when I’m back in Quincy?



Would it be okay if I come back sometime?



	S:	Yes.



	M:	Thank you very much for sitting down with us today. S:	You’re welcome. I’m glad I was able to do something. M:	You certainly were.

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Richard Brust, September 14, 2015





	Audit edited by:	Ryan Morini, April 17, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 25, 2019