AAHP 453; Cusick; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 453 James Cusick

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Ryan Morini on August 11, 2016 1 hour, 9 minutes | 27 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 453

Interviewee: James Cusick Interviewer: Ryan Morini Date: August 11, 2016



	M:	This is Ryan Morini with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. I’m sitting here with Jim Cusick on August 11th, 2016 and we’re hoping to talk a little bit about Joel Buchanan. Thanks for joining me.

	C:	Thanks and I knew Joel because I’m the curator for the P.K. Yonge Library of Florida History and worked with him very closely for five, six, seven years, probably, maybe more than that. The first thing I should say is that when I first met Joel, you know, a lot of people were calling him Joel and he took me aside at one point and said my name’s Jo-el and I kind of did a double take and he Jo-el and I said yeah, okay. So from then on I’ve always called him Jo-el, even though I’ve had other people argue with me and tell me “no it’s Joel.” I say Jo-el specifically told me that his name is Jo-el. So anyway, in case people are wondering why they’re maybe hearing me pronounce his name in a way that they wouldn’t pronounce his name. I’m simply following what he asked me to do when we first met. He was an amazing person. I miss him, I still miss him…He’s a very warm person, very easy to sit down and talk to, always interested in people. I could see why he was good at oral history. Cause he had that natural, I don’t want to say it’s a reporter’s instinct. It’s almost like, I don’t know, like a student’s instinct or a counselor’s instinct. He was always interested in people—a lot of times if you were in conversations with him you’d found you were answering questions, that he would be asking lots of questions. I think that was a huge asset for him in kind of a self-created field that he made for himself, which was to promote the African-American community here in Gainesville, to bring recognition





to people, to make sure that things he knew about or that he experienced would be preserved. That other people would know about, that people would know types of things that happened, how they happened. I don’t know if he was ever really interested in folk culture but he certainly would have been a fantastic folk culturist, because he was always interested in what was happening at ground level and what people were doing. So, anyway, I worked with him pretty closely in the department. Immediately within the department, he brought in a lot of important kinda legacy collections, mostly out of the local community, but that included, I mean he introduced everybody to the Visionaries, the women’s club. He brought members in and had archivists and other people in the department sit down, talk with people, introduced people. They brought in all their scrapbooks and things and talked about the history of the organization. Then you find out a lot of the members of the Visionaries were former teachers in Gainesville. Before you knew it, you were seeing this entire era of the 1930s and the 1940s in Gainesville just open up. He did the same thing with, I believe, it’s the Cunningham funeral home collection, which has actually become a very important genealogical collection, among other things, for family history, local family history, like Alachua and Marion counties. And because those were highly local collections that were kind of imbedded in in local families, I don’t know that we would’ve become aware of them, if Joel hadn’t said, “This is a really interesting and important organization; you need to know something about it.” I can also say that he would hold people spell bound, frequently, and I saw this happen with classes. It was really a fantastic thing to see, cause these were





classes of undergraduates, nineteen and twenty-somethings basically, probably in their sophomore and junior years. And Joel would come in a talk about his experiences as one of the young Black students who integrated Gainesville High School. And it was an intensely personal narration of what he went through and what some of his friends went through and what he witnessed at the school.

Anybody who’s heard that talk I think—I heard it. I was lucky enough to hear many different versions of it in different contexts. But I think anybody who would heard it probably remembers specific parts of it very clearly. So I can remember that Joel always emphasized, he said, “My high school experience was silence.” Because so often when he was a Gainesville High School, he said, “The teachers didn’t know what to do with me” and “I didn’t have any friends at the school.” “I didn’t know anyone and frequently because they had to integrate, but they weren’t going to truly integrate, they were just put me in a room by myself and that’s how I would spend the day. I would spend the day by myself in a room and then I would go home.” He said his entire first year at Gainesville High School before he finally broke through and making some friends and stuff, but that’s what his experience was. And of course, this stereotypical experience of integration is to see the shouting crowds of White parents and stuff and the kids being escorted off of the school buses under police guard. And that’s what we see from a lot of the northern schools and also around the country. And this was such a different kind of expression of the experience, but it was a powerful one. I think that probably every college student in that room, who is not that far removed from high school, could immediately identify with what that kind of





isolation would be like for an entire school year. And I think brought it home to them, you know. A) What kind of a sacrifice this was to Joel. He gave up probably his whole year as a fifteen year old or sixteen year old. But also I think it brought home maybe the depth of prejudice and segregation that existed at that time, that rather than make any accommodation for these very few number of students that came in to high school, that the reaction was we have no choice but to have these students here, so we will just put them somewhere out of the way. Where we and nobody else has to see them or recognize them. Now Joel did say that by his second year things had turned around a lot. And that’s interesting too, because what it shows is that even though there were, I think, only four to five Black students in Gainesville High School at that time, after a year they began to have an impact. Their presence could no longer be ignored. And even though if the overall culture of the high school was not very acceptant, they were actually making inroads with at least some groups of people and some friends and some teachers too. I hope somewhere or other we have a recording of Joel talking about his entire experience, because nobody else can actually tell the story. And I know he’s written it down, but if we don’t have a recording of it, that’s unfortunate. Because it’s one of those things, like in oral history basically, that you have to hear … he was frequently requested by professors in classes, because I think once people had experienced that talk—and of course afterwards there was a question and answer period. So then he was answering more questions about, well, “Why did you do this?” And he’d say, “Well I didn’t want to leave my old high school. I was happy there.” “But this was the 1960s and this





was something that various families, including mine, felt were important.” He basically would say “I’ll ask the teenagers” and “we were the foot soldiers basically.” And I’ve heard this from people that integrated in other places too, which is they went along with it, but it was also a parental decision. And it was a hard decision, because you weren’t making that decision to give your kid a better education. You were making that decision to make a point.

	M:	Did he ever talk to you about … because my sense is he also felt a little… by integrating Gainesville high School, he also felt distanced from Lincoln High, which was such as vital part of the community. Did he ever talk much about Lincoln high to you or--?

	C:	Well he was just as much against the closing of Lincoln High as any of the students that attended there. And unfortunately I can’t remember too many specifics, but I know that at various times—we have a set of contact prints. I think it’s the university news service that shows the student protests that occurred when it was announced that Lincoln High School would be closed as a high school and all the kids would be dispersed to others high schools. Or maybe they all went to Gainesville at that time; I can’t remember whether Buchholz was open at that time. But there was a massive protest, and of course we knew it from the contact prints, but when you look and see the contact prints, what you see is a street protest. Kids with picket signs, kids in cars, a march. And its one day’s activity and it wasn’t until I talk to Joel that he said “Oh no! No, no.” They shut down in that school for weeks and weeks they refused to go to school over that protest. And then you realize it was like oh this was something major, this was





like, you know, either you let us go to this school or we don’t want to go to any school. And it was, I don’t want to say it was a confrontation, but it was kind of a battle of wills between the teenagers I guess and the school board and other authorities over if you take away our school, then we’re going to be down here protesting. We’re not going to be in a classroom. So that, I remember him talking a lot about that. And he did talk a lot about the impact that the change in schools had on his life. Because he was to some extent separated from what would’ve have been the normal high school activities of that period of his life. And he was well into his late 50s and probably his early 60s when he was giving a lot of these talks. And when he talked, you felt like you were listening to a kid who had just come out of class in high school. I mean it was very present, and so you could tell that it had a huge impact on his life. Because when retold it, you were living it with him. And he was possibly reliving it a little bit himself when he told it. But he always had that impact when he spoke. When he spoke, he spoke about things that he was intensely knowledgeable about and that were somewhat visceral.

Because they weren’t things that he had read in a newspaper or in a book or that he had written a dissertation about; they were things that he had directly experienced, learned from, thought about and then often was putting into a bigger picture of other things that were happening in Gainesville or around the country that were related to it. He had a really incredible skill as a communicator and a storyteller. But a storyteller who always had a point to his story. And who always was going to make sure that the audience understood the point. So that’s one really big kind of facet of Joel that I remember very well. I remember sadder





facets, which I don’t really want to talk about, but if we’re doing kind of an appreciation of his life and things, I guess it’s appropriate. But I was over at the hospital at Shands shortly after he had the aneurysm and there was a lot of shock in the campus community and especially in the library. We weren’t the first to hear about it. If I remember this story correctly, I think this was something that happened at home and he was rushed to the hospital. I don’t think I found out until two days late that he was at Shands, and at that point he was already in an induced coma. And I thought well, there’s not going to be much point in trying to go over to the hospital and visit. But I want to go and, first of all, see if that’s really true. And I went over and sure enough he wasn’t in the intensive care unit, but he was in an area where he was very closely supervised and you could only see through the door. And it was clear that he was just on a bed in the hospital asleep. And that went on for days. Word gets back by various means and so we heard well, okay so the plan is that they are gonna keep him in this induced coma for five days, maybe a week, and then they have to bring him out of it. And so that started a lot of worry like, “Well, is he going to come out of it?” “Can you bring someone out of an induced coma?” “And then when he does come out of it, is he going to be okay or he is going to have severe damage from brain hemorrhage or something like that?” I did go by. I don’t think I went back over the day that he came out of the coma, but I did hear at work. This was a big part our work day. People would stop work when news came. And I don’t remember who brought the news, but somebody came in and said well “Joel’s out of the coma and he’s sitting up conscious, talking to people.” And there was like a huge sigh





of relief. And then when I went over to see him a couple days later, you could tell that there had been an impact. But we sat and had a long conversation and things, but he was tired and some parts of his memory, he knew that they had been affected and then you could tell while you were talking to him that they had been affected. And that eventually went diminished. He came back to work. And it was kind of like other memory loss cases where you’d be talking to Joel and it would be a normal conversation like you’d always have. But then you would get on a certain topic and he would ask you questions about things. And they might be like real simple things, like where a building was or what building you were talking about and things like that. But he came back and he went back pretty quickly to his routine of—he was still working to bring collections in, and contacting people, and talking to people a lot about the possibility of putting their papers or their stories with the library. And he was still talking to people in classroom situations. But I do remember too that sometimes I would walk into his office and he would just be sitting. Because part of the side effect was that it affected focus and concentration. He found it very difficult to write at length. He had a whole stack of things on his shelf that he wanted to read, some of it was out of the Jim Haskins collection or were books that had been written by Jim Haskins. And he would say that he would start the book and then after fifteen minutes or so, or twenty minutes, he just found that he couldn’t concentrate on it. So that was something that he really had to deal with. I don’t actually know—and maybe if you talk to family or people who know—I don’t actually know about the end of his life. I would go and visit him at his home every once in a while. And we





met up on the street a lot, because he wasn’t working at the university the last couple years. But I’d still bump into him around town or I’d stop by and see him for a bit. But he would tell you flat out that he was having troubles or issues, you know, he wasn’t driving anymore. Or town didn’t seem quite familiar to him as it had before. So unfortunately I think over a long period of time I think the after effects of that trauma began to show up or to impact his life and what he wanted to do a little bit more than actually the immediate months or years right after it.

But anyway, other people may be able to fill in on that. It’s like I said, there’s still times today when I wish I either could see him or I could sit down and talk to him or we could just go and have a coffee or something. And I have to say that his impact, his overall impact, or his legacy or his influence on the department is still there. Particularly in Black history. He has to be credited with building up what strengths we now have in Black history. And the fact that he couldn’t continue in that role, I think to some extent slowed down what we might have done. Just because he was so good at identifying really significant movements and people and groups in the community, in Gainesville in general, that needed to have a portion of their history curated. A lot of them were organizations and things and then curate their own history, but there were portions that you needed to make sure got moved into an institution where it was going to be preserved for good. And I also have to say that his skills as an interviewer and you were saying how many, I mean it is amazing how many oral histories that he did [Laughter].

	M:	Oh yeah.





	C:	I mean it really is. Because you would just be listening to one and then you would see that it was actually Joel and then you would see it was twenty years before and it was by Joel. I mean it’s amazing. That was a huge loss. Because he was so good at that and he was so energetic and productive about it. We’re really fortunate that he did all the ones that he did. Another thing, in his last couple of semesters at the university, he was still doing those things, but a lot of times he was talking to people but it wasn’t being recorded. And so if you were sitting in on the conversation you learned a whole bunch of stuff, but there was no long term preservation of it. And I also have to say, having grown up here in Gainesville, the network of people that he knew was extraordinary. And he would sometimes talk about his experiences in his student days. Just when he was over at the president’s house. Sometimes he was over there taking on an odd job, just working his way through part of his college career. He was at the center of things even when he was a student. Not because he was some sort of power broker or anything, but because he knew and was well acquainted with and was well liked by a lot of the people that were instrumental in running the university, and so he was always there when things where just going on. It’s really kind of incredible. If you want to move on to other topics you can, but those are the things that are vivid in my memory of Joel. Like when I think of him or when I see him in my mind’s eye, I see him doing one of those things. Or I see him at work at his desk or going through a collection that he’s processing or…I was at his house fairly frequently, and I can’t remember clearly the house and yet I remember very clearly sitting out on the front porch with him. And I remember being in the





kitchen and helping move things in and out the house. Actually now that I think about it, I do remember, we sat out on the porch a lot. We would just sit out on the porch, the front porch, and talk out there. But I learned an incredible amount from him. I would have to say that almost everything—cause I’m not a native of Gainesville. I didn’t grow up here. I went to school here at as a graduate student, so I have some time depth back to the mid-[19]80s in my own personal recollection. But I didn’t know anything about the [19]60s here. The [19]60s or the [19]70s. So everything I learned, really, about Gainesville, about the 1960s Civil Rights demonstrations, about different neighborhoods in town, and a lot of the early business and business people. A lot of that I learned from Joel. And I remember there was another time, I don’t remember this story so clearly, somebody else probably will. But I remember he was doing something in Levy County. I don’t know if he was going west because he was always interested in Rosewood and I don’t know if he was on a trip to go research something to do with Rosewood. But I remember him telling me, it might have been 2003, 2004, it was certainly after I met him. I remember he had made a recent trip out there at night. And told me later in the week how uncomfortable he had been out on the backroads out there and so much so that, and I forget who was in the car with him, made the decision they were just going to head back into Gainesville. I mean they were going to back on the main road and come back in. But that was always an interesting thing to hear, cause it brought home a couple of things.

One, here’s this very well-educated, very well-respected, and well-liked Black man in his fifties or sixties, and yet when he’s out in some parts of the Florida





wilderness, he gets uneasy. And also it kind of brought home the fact that, hey you know what? The atmosphere that probably pervaded things like Groveland, they’re not all that far away. And you probably don’t have to travel the backroads that far before you are back into Florida of the 1950s. So that brought home to me—cause I live in an area that’s developing rapidly. I live over in St. Johns County in Fruit Cove. And Fruit Cove was a very rural area when my family first moved into it. Very rural and now you don’t have to drive far to get to a Publix and all the housing developments have their own swimming pool, sports facilities that they maintain. And there’s very little cattle ranch or pine forests left in the area. And the whole area is very nicely manicured and pretty, but it’s a different type of Florida than that Florida that was there before. And so because I’ve seen that, I’ve kind of assumed the Florida of the [19]50s and the [19]60s, it’s gone.

Sometimes I feel like well why—it’s in the history books, why concern ourselves too much about it because it doesn’t exist anymore? But then I get the other parts of Florida and I’m like, oh okay, maybe I’m being very biased by the fact that I’m from St. Johns County. Because there’s other parts of Florida that you go into then and you’re like, oh my gosh. I just feel like I went thirty-six years back in time, because this is what the area of Florida I lived in used to be like before all of the development hit. But anyway Joel I think, talking to him always reminded me of the fact that forty years difference is probably not made all that much difference.

	M:	Can I ask if there any—is that the only incident you remember where he kind of had issues?





	C:	That’s the one I remember most clearly. M:	Okay.

	C:	Cause he was kinda laughing it off. Which he did. I don’t wanna come in give you the impression that he came in and was fearful or anything. This was kind of a funny story that he was telling. Joe was pretty tactile and so he would touch me on the wrist and say “Jim, I turned that car around and we got out of there” [Laughter]. And then I would laugh and I would say, “Joel, if I had been with you, I would have been telling you to get out of there too. I don’t think I would have felt very easy where you were right at that point.” That road was a little bit too isolated. I don’t know what it was that set him off. Whether they had passed a confederate flag or if they had passed something else, but they ran into something that they felt like, okay this is a signal that this might not be the safest or best place to be after dark, so let’s get out of here. And what’s interesting is, of course, is that Joel was never afraid to speak his mind and never afraid to back off a stance or stand up for things. But, at the same time, I think he also had an instinct that some situations were maybe really not situations that you wanted to get into. And I just think this was at least ten years ago and you know everything in the news now is about, well not everything, but a lot of the news now is Black parents trying to acculturate their teenage sons about, hey there are some situations that you might get into that are essentially no win situations. Unless you kind of get yourself out of them very quickly or back down and move out, even though that might not be what you want to do. I think it’s very interesting that Joel was a whole separate generation than these nineteen or twenty-year





olds. And again you could assume that was the environment that Joel went through and that his parents went through. And that’s another thing that needs to be recorded, because it’s part of our past. And then he would bring things up like that, you would realize, oh wait, no. It needs to be recorded, but it isn’t part of our past; it’s actually part of our present. Cause it’s still going on. And these seventeen-year-olds, eighteen-year-olds, and nineteen-year-olds, if they had sat down and talked to Joel, would probably have found out that, despite the generational difference, they would have been very much on the same page about some of the things that they have to deal with. That’s another aspect of Joel, which is that he remained young. He was a young sixty-year-old. Very in touch with the times. I think that’s why he could connect to high school students and college students so well and even younger students. He could tell them about his life, which for them would have been in the distant past, and all of a sudden it wasn’t the distant past. It was like something that they could directly relate to. But that’s the only case I can remember where he told me about feeling uneasy, let’s say. Not so much about the situation, but about what the situation might represent. Cause nothing happened and yet he and, again whoever the other passenger in the car, their instincts were up. There was just something about the place and the environment that suggested, in the past, this has not been a good place to be, so maybe it’s not a good place to be right now either.

	M:	Do you know if he ever countered any kind of, let’s say more politic resistance, where people who didn’t like the ways that the narratives he was bringing in were





challenging things or did he just get a lot of support? What was the reception of the--?

	C:	I wish I could say that I remembered specifically. He gave a lot of talks on campus and off. And he did get push back. But if you’re asking me like can I remember a specific individual and how they challenged him, I can’t. All I can remember is that from time to time it happened. And Joel would deal with that by saying, basically, “I’m telling you my experiences and I want you to understand that this is what happened. Whatever you think of it, whatever you want to make of it.” And then he would go on and say, “I think it’s still happening. I think if you went out and looked you would find that it’s still happening.” So his answer to that was—well this would be my answer, because he would never express it this way, but his answer was hey, you know, “you can challenge at me as much as you want on this, but I know what I know and I know what I experienced. And I’m relating to you what I experienced. And if you don’t want to accept it, that’s kind of your problem. If I can’t change your mind, then I can’t change your mind.” But I think Joel would’ve then gone and said in privately that that person was just very close-minded. But yeah, there were cases where you had to deal with that. But he always dealt with it. He didn’t raise his voice and get in any shouting matches with anybody. He just very gently, very genteelly, in the quiet way that he usually had of speaking, would just refute them. But he wouldn’t refute them by challenging their beliefs or their ideas or what they said. He would refute them by saying, “that’s not my experience,” which was effective. It wasn’t effective on the person raising the challenge, but it was effective with the rest of the audience.





	M:	Do you know if he ever had any trouble with—I mean historically UF’s relationship to the Black community has not been that good. Did he ever have trouble getting people to donate things to the collections or?

	C:	Did Joel?



	M:	Yeah.



	C:	I don’t think that Joel did. We did. M:	Okay.

	C:	And again, I think Joel was—not that we didn’t know this—but I think Joel wouldn’t let us forget it. [Laughter]. And not that it was our fault, right, because he was talking about things that were true in the [19]60s and the [19]70s. But he would actually come in and talk to us as a group, even when John Ingram, the head of the department was there, he would say “You need to be aware that you’re dealing with people who have never been on this campus. And who at various times were not allowed on this campus. And that at later times allowed on this campus were allowed on this campus but didn’t feel comfortable coming, because they didn’t feel like they would really be welcomed.” And he said “When they come, they’re gonna walk in here with that perception and they’re probably gonna leave with that perception. And you’re really gonna have to work to show them that things have changed and that that isn’t the case anymore.” And he was absolutely right about that and I think he’s still right about it. I think he made great inroads there, but I think there’s still a general perception that UF is not the place to archive Black history. And I still find, I have to tell you, as curator of the P.K. Yonge Library, it’s one of my biggest challenges. Because first of all, I started in





a hole, cause when I arrived there was hardly anything. And then really without Joel actually, I have to say these years that I haven’t had Joel to aid me or to guide me or to vouch for me in some cases, it’s been tough to get additional collections. Although, on the other hand, I have to say largely, probably because of Joel, we do much more promotion of the collections we have. Which is good, because as we promote those collections, I think it makes people more comfortable and maybe a little bit more trustworthy that additional collections will also be valued and respected and highlighted. But yeah, when I look at the amount of activity that was going on in increasing overall our holdings in important collections for African American culture and Black history, when I look at the level of activity, it’s definitely decreased since Joel left the department and certainly since his death. I know that’s something that the library as a whole is very concerned to reverse. It’s something that my department in particular wants to see reversed, in many other ways. We’re fortunate now that the Judaica collection is getting a lot of attention and so that’s growing really well. And some of our Cuban-related and Hispanic collections are growing really well. But the African American collections, I have to say, they’re at risk of becoming a bit stagnant again. And that’s probably where professionally, I guess, and educationally we see and feel the loss of Joel the most. He was a key person.

People talk about sometimes an operation depends on a limited number of key people and if you lose the key people, the operation simply does not work well anymore. Because you really needed that person and we’ve never found another person like Joel, really. So anyway, but we do now have, officially, another





librarian specifically for African American studies and African American culture, who’s our liaison. She’s very new. But hopefully she will kind of take on this role that Joel had previously fulfilled, because you need leadership in that area. And Joel had leadership. He had good ideas about what to do and he was good at following them out and he was good at getting everybody on board with him.

People were really comfortable working with Joel and so if he was at the center things, you always had a good group of people working together. And that’s kind of a definition of leadership.

	M:	Can’t argue with that. I mean, to my perception, he also, meeting him, the way he spoke and presented himself, I might not have suspected, even though we all should know better than this, that he also had been involved with being kind of a radical I guess. I mean, he got tear-gassed in the president’s office when they occupied it, he did demonstrations, I mean, he had this kind of ... I guess what I’m saying is he seems like he could kind of bridge worlds, if that make sense. Or he could really kind of move through different… he had kind of a rare quality about him I think.

	C:	Also, I don’t know at least at the time that I met him that he was a radical. M	Well maybe not.

	C:	So you could say that he was a former radical, maybe, maybe. Cause I do know that, yeah, now that you mention it, I do know that people that knew him in his student days, I mean, he still carried with him in their mind the characteristics of being a rabble rouser. I would say more rabble rouser than radical.

	M:	Okay.





	C:	But I think where that showed up is he was a stand-up for you rights type of person. Not necessarily… is that radical idea that you have to stand up for your rights? I mean, and that’s what I mean, I never found him—cause when we talked about things, if anything, his attitude towards a lot of social justice and a lot of the way people should treat each other was, I think, more religious based. He was a person of pretty deep faith. And he often couched things in religious terms. So I don’t know that he was a radical. I think he was somebody who was willing to stand up for what he believed in. But I’m not sure—I didn’t know him as a student. But I’m not sure that his way to stand up for that would have been chanting and giving fiery microphone speeches from a podium. I think the way he stood up for things tended to be either by action or by speaking. But he tended to speak, not shout. Now maybe people that knew him when he was a seventeen- year-old or a twenty-two-year-old would know a different Joel, but I often saw him be insistent about things, be dogged about things if he was trying to make his point. But I never—and he was a very good speaker and he had beautiful cadence and rhythm. His style of speaking was very natural, but very eloquent.

But I just don’t remember ever seeing him really get angry about things. Maybe short flairs of temper over something but not hot tempered. So yeah, I don’t know. And that’s why I was always amazed when we met people who had known him a long time. And sometimes they would roll their eyes. Sometimes even some of his former teachers I think would. But if he was a radical, then I have to say that by the time he was in his fifties, he had found a different way to express





his radicalism, Because he tended to do it in a very straightforward, laidback, but direct eye contact, one-on-one communication sort of way.

	M:	You talked about his interest in preserving the history of the Black community in Gainesville and elsewhere—also I mean the Cunningham collection in Marion County. What about UF history? I know on file here we have from the early [19]90s, which is before you got here, but a proposal that it looks like he sent or wanted to send to the president’s office to get funding to do basically a Black history of UF in other words.

	C:	He was interested in that and he was, to some extent, his own institutional history. A lot of times, we would ask him for his recollections of—and its interesting, there’s intense amount of interest, especially in the [19]60s right now. [19]60s UF is actually very hard to come by. We don’t have a lot of pictures of the university, other than, you know, the standard: this is campus, this is buildings, this is the stadium type pictures. There’s not a lot of activity people type pictures from the [19]60s and there’s not a lot of video. And in fact, the single best record of that period is the Independent Alligator, which we frequently have to—and some alternative press things that we’ve been able to preserve, which we frequently have to go to, to get pictures, even though they’re not very good pictures, and to get news accounts and quotes of what was going on. And so again I think Joel was ahead of the curve there, because I’ve heard Carl Van Ness the university historian and formerly the university archivist, kind of regret the fact that we just don’t have this huge stock pile of flyers and posters and memorabilia and photo shots and video shots of what was happening on campus





in the [19]60s and [19]70s. It wasn’t collected and it’s now darn hard to come by. So no, again, I think he…that was another place where, whether or not he wanted to do Black history at the university, he had kinda put his finger on something that is difficult to do any social history of the university from the [19]60s and [19]70s. Very difficult, cause the sources you have to work with are not very social. I mean, newspaper accounts, they’re great, but they only tell you so much.

	M:	That’s true.



	C:	And stock photo from the university news service are great, but they’re not action shots, they’re not candid shots. They’re not the type of things that even a photographer for a newspaper would be out there shooting. And I’ve talked to faculty from that time. I’ve naïvely said, “Can we have your photo collection?” And they would just laugh and say, “I couldn’t afford a camera.” They were like, “If you want photos, you gotta go find the F.B.I. agents who [Laughter] infiltrated the demonstrations. They had cameras. I was a student here. We couldn’t afford cameras. And if we did, we weren’t using them, because if you took a camera to a demonstration everybody thought you were working for the F.B.I.” But yeah, that was another thing I think he would have liked to have done. But I don’t know that it was ever a focus of—I mean, a lot of his focus, like I said, was more on in the role of getting things and preserving them, rather than trying to write up something about the university.





M:  Well the proposal I was mentioning was also to do an oral history project talking to the different—so I guess he was always thinking of interviews and things too, which was a different curational method I guess.

	C:	Yeah. Well, he would do an interview at the drop of a hat. A lot of times if people just came in to see him, surprise, surprise. You are now being interviewed, cause he would just turn on the tape recorder. Or if he didn’t have a tape recorder, he would just try and remember what they were saying. He had a pretty good memory. That was another tragedy of the hemorrhage is he had a pretty good memory, a reporter’s type of memory. And so a lot of times, if he couldn’t quote people directly, he would at least try and type up the information that they had given him.

	M:	Do you know if he deposited all those tapes or the writings? Do you know what happened to them?

	C:	We have some of the stuff that was behind in the office. I don’t know that we’ve really made an effort to go through and organize them. But a lot of the other stuff may have gone home with him. And I don’t know what happen to it after that, because the home was eventually sold and he was living in a different place. And I do have to say that there was also stuff that Joel, including interviews, that he carried around in his head. But yeah, I don’t know what type of shape it’s in.

Cause, like I said, a lot of these things were pretty informal. But yeah, we did basically retain everything that he had left at the office.

	M:	I think we’ve covered some pretty good ground. The last question I’d have off hand would be in terms of carrying on his legacy, what kind of vision or what





kinds of other goals do you think people might, based on what you knew of him or what he talked to you about, what would be the best way to kind of honor his legacy or carry that on into the future?

	C:	Well, it would certainly be good to see an active or dedicated oral history program. But I have to say that although the library can play a role in that, that’s just not our thing. Only—Joel had a kind of a special position in which he was free to pursue those kinds of things in his position at the library. But they aren’t that many positions at the library that have … what do I want to say? Kind of the opportunity to be a—I don’t want to say a field agent. What do you call it? Field…

	M:	I mean, I guess—



	C:	To do field work basically. M:	Yeah, a field worker.

	C:	Yeah, field worker. You know, which is a lot of what he did. We have a couple people. Flo Turcotte’s very good as a field agent. She goes out and talks to people. And there’s been more of an effort on part of the university archives and university historians to do field work in that way. If not with oral histories, then just with gathering and collecting in specific information that we know are gaps and are knowledge.

	M:	Can I ask how you got that special positon? I mean, do you remember much about how they created that for him?

	C:	Yes, they did.



	M:	So that was basically it.





	C:	Yeah, basically when Joel came in and when it was clear how good he was at this, the head of the department basically made an argument that said, “Let’s have Joel do what Joel is good at.” Let him do it, because it’s exactly what we need him to do. And it’s stuff that the rest of us don’t either have the freedom to do or don’t have the proper background to do. So yeah, it was kind of expected that he would do a lot of outreach. And like I said, there are some other positions at the library where, whether or not we created the position that way, it became apparent that the people in it were really good at outreach. And it was like okay, this is a major part of being an archivist and of building up collections of knowledge that are unique to the university or to Gainesville. So yeah, it’s important that we make sure that those people have a percentage of their time to go do that part of the work. So I should also say that just more outreach in general I think is another thing that I think would be an important part of honoring and also maintaining Joel’s legacy, Whether that’s getting out into community, and here I mean any community, more. Or holding more events that showcase certain things and that put out a plea to expand that topic or that theme by adding to it. I mean, that’s kind of what Joel did. He was building, basically. He started with one collection and then he thought of two others that would be really good and he talked to people to see what the potentials was to get those in. And then all of the sudden he had three collections. And then, we didn’t talk about it, but he was instrumental in the A. Quinn Jones/Lincoln Park Collection. Lincoln High.

Where did I? I used to live in Chicago. Got confused there for a second, cause that’s a section in Chicago. The Lincoln High collection. He brought all that stuff





in. He was the person with I think two other assistants who went over and basically packed up professor Jones’ house and brought all that stuff over there. And he was also then instrumental in, he was considered the library liaison person with the city and other agencies about doing something with the house and setting it up so that the house would not necessarily be a house museum, but could actually be a place where people could go. There could be activity at the house. And unfortunately, a lot of that happened just before he became ill.

And after he became ill, that was a little bit too heavy a task for him to keep up with. But yeah, I don’t want to rank collections because they’re all equally good, but certainly the A. Quinn Jones is just an outstanding collection. And very important that it was preserved and we’re very fortunate to have it. And again, it wasn’t just Joel, and then I remember Bruce Chapel who was one of the Florida history archivists at that time. He was very enthusiastic and pushed to get that collection in. And people over at Library West, I mean, there was quite a group that were like yeah, “this is an absolutely essential collection; we have to move on that.” But Joel was certainly one of the leaders and organizers. But as I said, I hope that we’re moving in that direction again. We’ve gone through a couple years at the library where we trenched to some extent on other types of projects. I mean we had grant projects, digital projects we were trying to run. We had internal projects of just trying to get organized and to not have quite so many boxes of things piling up all around us that we were trying to do. And we’ve had a lot more classes coming in to the library, which is been very good. Cause we’re trying to get the librarians to integrate a little bit more with the teaching side of the





university and be a little bit more closely involved in that. But that’s all sorta up and running in and doing well right now and so now the pendulum’s kinda swinging back to saying, okay now that we at least seem to think that we have things fairly running well and organized, and here we really need now to get out more. And start going to outside events and outside groups more. And that’s certainly something that’s on my radar for the next couple years. So hopefully we will see kind of a resurgence of the types of things that were happening when Joel was sort of in his heyday there. Which was probably the period between about 2002 and maybe 2008 or so. But it’s like anything else, a lot of times you to have to the right group of people and you have to have the critical mass of people and then all of a sudden things start to happen. So hopefully we’re kind of in another phase where that’s coming along. It’d certainly be a very good time to push Joel’s legacy. I think it’s an advantageous time to do that. So it’s good that you’re doing this project.

	M:	Glad to hear that. C:	Yeah.

	M:	Well, I think that covers my questions. Did you have any else to add or?



	C:	I don’t really. We went all over the place, I guess. You learned a little bit about kinda library legacy and history and little bit about Joel’s contribution. But anyway, in terms of my recollections and also my kind of my assessment of what Joel brought to, particularly the library, but really the university environment in general. Those are the things, basically, so.

	M:	Thank you very much.





	C:	Okay, well you’re welcome. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Sidney St. Cyr, February 3, 2017 Audit-edited by:	Anupa Kotipoyina,July 12, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 27, 2019