AAHP 508 Carey; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 508 Gordon Carey Interviewed by A.J. Donaldson on June 14, 2017

36 Pages



Abstract:

Keywords: [African American History; North Carolina Politics; Racism; Congress on Racial Equality (CORE)]



AAHP 508

Interviewee: Gordon Carey Interviewer: Anthony Donaldson, Jr Date: June 14, 2017





	D:	Alright, my name is A.J. Donaldson. I am student, Phd candidate with University of Florida in history. Today is June 14, 2017. I am sitting here with Mr. Gordon Carey. Would you spell your name for the recorder?

	C:	Last name is Carey



	D:	I want to start off by asking a few basic questions. Can you tell me where you are from?

	C:	Where I’m from? Well originally I was raised in Michigan and then moved to Nevada and then to California. Really grew up in California. Pasadena, Los Angles in that area. And then I moved East when I went to work for CORE in 19—can’t remember the year right now. I moved East to New York to work as a Field Secretary for the Congress of Racial Equality. And then from there I moved to eventual Washington D.C. Then finally to North Carolina with Floyd McKissick.

	D:	Okay. So, you don’t mind me going back a little bit. Okay. When were you born in Michigan? In what part? Ann Arbor anywhere?

	C:	I was born near Grand Rapids, Michigan in 1932.



	D:	1932. Okay and then what school did you attend? What college? And how did you go into getting into activism?

	C:	In California I attended Pasadena City College. I also took some classes at Los Angeles City College. I had taken courses at a number of







universities. I never graduate though. I don’t have a college degree. The last school I attended was the New School for Social Research in New York City.

	D:	So how did you get into…interested in organizing and how were you introduced to CORE?

	C:	Well, okay. That’s fairly simple. My dad was a Methodist minister, a pacifist, and a early CORE member. He belonged to a CORE chapter in Grand Rapids, Michigan in 1945 I guess it was. Shortly after CORE was founded in Chicago. So my dad was a member of CORE then. I kind of grew up in CORE. As a matter of fact my dad as a Methodist pastor he ran a youth camp up on one of the lakes in Michigan and he invited speakers to come that camp. One of them just happened to be gentlemen named Jim Farmer. And so I met Jim Farmer when I was about seven or eight years old. Because he stayed at our house.

	D:	Jim Farmer did?



	C:	Jim Farmer stayed at our house because my dad was running this Methodist youth camp. And Jim was gonna go up there and be one of the speakers or something like that. I don’t know. Anyway, later on when I went to work for CORE. Jim used to tell people that he bounced me on his knee when I was a kid. [Laughter].

	C:	As a matter fact it’s kind of a funny story because back in those days when you visited someone’s home, in a small little house, the guest would







always get the master bedroom. So my mother moved out to some other room. And my dad and Jim Farmer shared this big bed. And I thought “I wonder what that Black man in bed with my dad.” [Laughter]. So anyway. The point is I was involved integrational activities and civil rights to a degree going way back.

	D:	So this is in California right? And you moved from California? C:	That was in Michigan.

	D:	That was in Michigan. But you carried that with you to California. That mindset.

	C:	So when we finally ended up in Pasadena my dad was the chairman of the CORE chapter in Pasadena. And when he—I succeeded him as the chairman of that CORE group.

	D:	In Pasadena?



	C:	In Pasadena. And uh the way it all evolved with the national organization was that the then Executive Secretary of CORE, a guy named Jimmy Robinson. Who was also of CORE in Chicago. Jimmy and Lula Farmer who was very active. They were attempting to get chapters organized in the West Coast. So I had attended a national convention of CORE and they got to know me. So when they wanted to have a Field Secretary to the West Coast they called me and asked me if I could help and I said of course. So I organized a trip for this Field Secretary whose name was [Inaudible]. My memories really bad. But anyway, I organized meetings up







in Seattle, Portland, San Francisco, all up and down the line, Arizona. All throughout that area. Meetings in advance for him. It was that experience of organizing that trip that Jimmy Robinson and Marvin Rich who was also involved at this time. “We need this guy.” So they called me as ask if I would be interested in coming to work for the national organization. And of course I said “Absolutely.” Well what can be better. So anyway, so that’s how I got the job in national CORE.

	D:	So you were in Chicago. You moved from California to—? C:	No I was born in Michigan.

	D:	Yeah, yeah, yeah, but when you leave California where’s national? When do you move to nationals?

	C:	We move to Ely, Nevada.



	D:	Nevada. Okay gotcha, gotcha, okay, okay.



	C:	And we’re there for a little while and then we move to the Mojave Desert in California.

	D:	Okay, go back to California.



	C:	[Laughter] And from there to Pasadena. D:	To Pasadena. And then you come East?

	C:		Yeah. After Pasadena I lived in Los Angeles. When I was hired by CORE I was living in Los Angeles at that time.







	D:	And I’m tryin to—when do you go East to where? C:	That would’ve been 1957 I think—

	D:	Somewhere around there? C:	Yeah.

	D:	And what state or city do you move to? C:	To you New York City.

D:  New York City? Okay gotcha. So when you get to New York City you’re there and you’re entering and working for CORE and then from CORE is this where you meet Floyd Mckissick?

C:   Oh yeah. Well the way I met him was at—He was an attorney in Durham.



He was the Youth Advisor to the— he was the advisor to the Youth NAACP chapter. [Dogs bark]. So when the sit-ins started in 1960 in Greensboro—As you recall February 1st when the sit-ins started? Right?

D:    Yes.



	C:	They closed the lunch counters in Greensboro. D:	Yes.

	C:	So Floyd started to do something over in Greens…in Durham. It was dentist named Dr. [George] Simkins in Durham. He was actually an advisor to some of these students who organized the—okay I got mixed up there. Simkins was in Greensboro. Okay? And he was advisor to them.







When the sit-ins started he knew they needed help so he contacted a lady in High Point who was with the American friends service committee and she told Dr. Simkins that CORE had—back ten years before organized a boycott of Woolworth on behalf of the Baltimore CORE group. Because they had been sitting in Baltimore. And so Dr. Simkins asked—she told Dr. Simkins how to contact us in New York. He actually didn’t call first. He sent a postcard. And said that he would appreciate if we could contact him and maybe we can help them organize with these sit-ins. To make a long story short as a result of that I was appointed to fly down to Durham. By the time when all this happened the Greensboro thing had shut down. But Floyd and some other people were trying to get something organized in Durham. So when I got to North Carolina I went directly to Durham. Floyd met me there and that’s how I met him. And I went out with him and he…I met with a sitting group there and helped train them. As a matter of fact I got arrested at that point and one of those Woolworth’s [inaudible] in Durham. And they arrested me. Floyd Mckissick, with me and the rest of us was Duke University students whose name I can’t remember. But anyway the two of us were arrested. Floyd went to the court to the jail with this pocket Constitution in his hand. And he said “you guys have violated, I don’t know how many articles of the Constitution and you’re going to be in big trouble.” Anyway, actually he—people of course in Durham the police knew Floyd McKissick. And they knew how difficult he could be to deal with. So they kept us there for only about five or six hours and they







released us. And no charges they release us. And so that’s how I met Floyd.

	D:	I guess the one question I didn’t ask is who connected you to Floyd. So why was Floyd…Why did Floyd meet you in Durham? Who made that connection?

	C:	Dr. Simkins.



	D:	Dr. Simkins.



	C:	In Greensboro.



	D:	He suggested Floyd Mckissck and you flew to Durham? C:	Yep.

	D:	Okay. So you’re in Durham. You help organize and then eventually you go back to New York?

	C:	Well yeah but see, at that time there were only—CORE was very, very small organization.

	D:	At this point.



	C:	CORE had—our offices were right downtown in Manhattan. You could see City Hall from our offices. But there was only Jimmy Robinson was the Executive Director. Lula Farmer, who was Jim Farmer’s wife was office managers. A guy named Jim Pack who got beaten severely in Birmingham, almost killed. He was there all the time. I forget what his position was but among other things he edited the CORE-lator and stuff







like that. So that was it. There were only three of them in the office plus a secretary of some sort. Okay.

	D:	Okay. Alright, so um, you mentioned D.C. How did you end up in D.C.? C:	Pardon?

	D:	You mentioned D.C. You were there?



	C:	Well yeah okay. Okay let me back up. When I went down to Durham and they were explaining it was a very small organization, they also hired another guy at the same time that they had hired me. And that was James

T. McCain from Sumter, South Carolina. So he and I were the only two field secretaries. Okay?

	D:	Okay.



	C:	And there was us and the three people in the office. That was the whole organization, five people plus a secretary. And the for a long time Jim McCain and I, we travelled throughout the upper-south organizing, organizing sit-ins. And helping people—I held workshops in Chapel Hill. In Chapel Hill the sit-ins were all done by High School students because there were no…with UNC and Duke didn’t allow any Blacks in. So there were all High School students doing this stuff. And so I organized sit-in stuff there. We travelled, I traveled throughout the state of North Carolina, down South Carolina, organizing. Went out to Tennessee organized chapters all throughout the South. We weren’t organizing CORE chapters. What we were doing was trying to help organize and train people to do the







sit-ins. Because the sit-ins were growing like wildfire throughout the South. And most of them didn’t have any idea of what exactly…the techniques.

It’s amazing however that so many of them were willing to agree to a non- violent discipline. Because CORE for example never preached pacifism. They treated the sit-ins as tactics and all that was required was that you, I, we accept the tactic of non-violent, non-violent resistance. You didn’t have to—so, but you didn’t have to believe it even. As long as you were willing to agree to it. And an example of how well this worked for example. With these High School kids in Chapel Hill. I found out who—kind of the group leader was. And he was a kind of little bit of a ganger leader so to speak, but wasn’t a real gang. So I figured okay if we can get him to help organize the rest of the kids and so we would have these workshops and show them how to—because what was happening was every time they would go to let’s say a Woolworth downtown. And the White kids would come attack ‘em and get into a fight. And so the next day they go in and do the same damn thing and of course they get into another—because the White kids knew they were going to be there. So we said “Wait a minute you got to catch them off base.” What you’re gonna do is if they think you’re going to the Woolworth in the morning, you gotta skip Woolworth altogether and you’re gonna go to some other place in the afternoon.

Okay. And so there not going to know you’re there. So you go there and If they try to get into a fight then you just refuse. You won’t fight ‘em, you won’t fight ‘em back. And they[laugher] they said “What if they beat up on







us?” We said “Well they probably won’t because their kids and their gonna wanna fight and you don’t fight what are they gonna do?” And it worked beautifully. These kids, these High School children were marvelous. They did a great job. In the workshops I had trained them in—What’s the term I’m trying to think of? Role-playing in these things.

	D:	Role-playing.



	C:	And so we would have a room of people and I say okay now you guys are going to be the sit-in people and the four of you, you’re going to be the White guys who are attacking the. Okay?

	D:	Okay.



	C:	And they look at me as say “wait a minute, I’m White and I’m going to attack these guys?” Yes you are. And you’re going to be just as loud and mean as the White kids really were. And so they would do that. So they would push them and stuff. And then we’d stop. And we say okay now you are going to reverse. You guys are now the White guys and you’re the Black guys. They didn’t call them Black in those days. Those are negroes.

	D:	Sure, sure—



	C:	And so Jim McCain and I did that throughout the South. I mean we would travel all over the place, but not in the Deep South, because at that point it wasn’t until we organized the Freedom Rides really that stuff went into the Deep South. But we traveled all over.







	D:	So now that I—it’s interesting you mention your work in North Carolina. So you don’t stay in…When do you move to North Carolina?

	C:	I didn’t move to North Carolina until I came down with Floyd to organize Soul City.

	D:	Okay, we’ll get to that. Before we get to that. I was reading book by Tim Tyson

	C:	By who?



	D:	Tim Tyson, “Radio Free Dixie.” It’s on this man by the name of Robert F. Williams

	C:	Yeah. Okay I know him.



	D:	So what happened there was an episode in Monroe, North Carolina were he requested so CORE people down to help him with a demonstration and it got violent. I didn’t know about that incident until I read that book. So there were CORE people in Monroe umm and then there was a SNCC guy James Foreman. Were you familiar in anything that went on in Monroe, North Carolina?

	C:	Yeah I wasn’t involved in it directly, but I sure did know about it. And because of the…What was the name of the Black leader?

	D:	Robert F. Williams.



	C:	Robert Williams. Because he became very well-known and of course he rejected the whole idea of non-violence.







	D:	Correct.



	C:	And eventually he went to Cuba and I think Africa and stuff like that. And so we didn’t exactly work with them but we all knew all about that and I think some of our lawyers provided assistance to them, legal assistance.

	D:	Okay, so [Interviewer pauses]. Alright so that was around August 20, 1961 when that incident happened, but I wanted to get to something else. In CORE it starts shift to something a little more radical. So James Farmer is eventually being replaced by Floyd McKissick. Can you tell me the tension that is going on in CORE where you have this old generation of non- violence kind of rhetoric and tactics, but is there this growing group that’s wanting to be more militant?

	C:	I was right in the middle of that because I was one the older non-violent ones. And so it was a lot of in-fighting within the organization but— now get this, see I was also one of the people that fought hard to get Floyd first became the national chairman.

	D:	In [19]63.



	C:	Right.



	D:	When he became the chairman.



	C:	And because I was very much aware that even though I was actually a pacifist. I mean I spent a year in federal prison because I wouldn’t go to the army.







	D:	Okay [Laughter]. I didn’t know that. Okay.



	C:	I was sentenced to three years. That was before this. Okay. But I was very much aware that the organization had to change. Now to me the concept of Black Power example. Okay, It’s just like a—When you’re a young person you eventually rebel against your parents in some way. Right?

	D:	Yes.



	C:	And you can’t really grow up unless you rebel against them. D:	Yes.

	C:	And you take that into a societal thing in the Black community. They had to rebel against the White community in the same way that the child had to rebel against a parent. Because no one can make you free. The only way you can free is free yourself. Right?

	D:	Yes, yes.



	C:	So you have to seek and fight for freedom for yourself. That’s the only way you can become free. So to me Black Power should be meant that the Black community had to fight against the powers that be. They had to do that. Now they had a whole variety of ways of doing that, but one of things I knew within our little organization CORE which wasn’t so new by then, little by then. At one time—see actually I was a field secretary I became field director. So I was in charge of all the field secretaries and I was in







charge of all the volunteers we had out there. And so we a hundred people out in the field working for us. Either as field secretaries or as…

	D:	Volunteers—



	C:	Huh?



	D:	As volunteers.



	C:	It was a name for ‘em. We paid some of their expenses and we paid a small per diem for ‘em. But they weren’t regular employees. Okay. So there were a hundred people out there. And so as a matter of getting all that organized and we knew that the organization had to change. We fought hard and first of all we fought hard to get Floyd McKissick as chairman. We fought hard to fire--well we didn’t quite fire ‘em—Jimmy Robinson was one of the founders of CORE in Chicago. Because he couldn’t even agree with the concept of Black Power [Laughter] because to him that was something violent. Okay?

	D:	Yeah, yeah.



	C:	And it’s not really violent. It can be violent or non-violent but it’s a rebellion and it’s a refusal to accept stuff. So all of a sudden CORE was a highly discipline organization. There used to be a pamphlet CORE had called “The Discipline.” Okay? And on the cover of it was an image of Mohandas Gandhi. And among the other rules. You couldn’t even go out and even picket somebody unless you tried to negotiate first. The requirement was you negotiate then you picket then eventually maybe you sit-in and block







things. But you gotta go through a processing. Well if you’re dealing in the turmoil of the [19]60s and all these Black kids and adults. They weren’t ready to go through that process. They didn’t wanna negotiate [Laughter]. And so I and few others realized we had to change. That’s why I left CORE because there were too many people looked upon me as someone who was really holding things back. In fact, I was advocating change all the time. I got Floyd to come into the national organization and become a leader. I worked hard to get Jim Farmer hired. Okay. Now of course Jim Farmer was considered to be too mild. Right?

	D:	Yeah he was founder though, right? C:	Huh?

	D:	Farmer was one of the founders. C:	Yeah, oh absolutely.

	D:	Yeah, yeah so you saying you brought him in to do what? C:	Brought him in as staff.

	D:	As staff.



	C:	Well he became the National Director. D:	Okay.

	C:	He became the National Director of CORE. D:	Okay.







C:

Full-time employee.

D:

So he didn’t start off as the National Director?

C:

Huh?

D:

He became the National Director.

C:

His life Lulu was active in the organization all this time.

D:

Okay I see.

C:

But Jim was working for the NAACP you know?

D:

Yes, yes, yes.

C:

He was working for the NAACP. He lectured for the American Friends



Service Committee. He was a CORE member but—

D:

He wasn’t the Director.

C:

He wasn’t staff. I don’t even think he was…he wasn’t even on the National



Action Committee. Stuff like that. You know.

D:

So when did you bring McKissick in? Do you remember? When did you



bring him into the CORE fold?

C:

Dates I don’t remember too well.

D:

Okay that’s fine. But you were a factor in bringing him in?

C:

At the CORE convention.

D:

But you helped—you brought him in?







	C:	Well I didn’t just do it by myself. I was one of the people D:	One of the people.

	C:	One of the people who was supporting him.



D:  How early on did you notice this split happening in CORE with Black Power and the pacifists?

C:  Shortly after the sit-ins began. D:  Shortly after the sit-ins began? C:  Yeah.

D:   Okay and McKissick he’s advocating Black Power right? He’s speaking on it early.

	C:	A lot of people misunderstand what McKissick is really saying. D:	Explain, talk to me.

	C:	[Laughter] Because he advocates it, he talks it, he preaches it. Right? D:	Yeah.

		C:		And he means it. But he doesn’t mean that that’s anti-White. D:	Yes. Correct. Yeah, yeah, exactly. It’s not anti-White.

C:  Because, you know. From early on people don’t understand this but from early on he was lawyer in Durham before any of this stuff. As a lawyer he has some White clients. He had Black clients. He had Indian clients.







	D:	Yeah, yeah, yeah.



	C:	Some of the type of White clients were usually came as a result of the American Civil Liberties Union. Okay. Because he represented them. And always welcomed smart people anywhere. I mean, Floyd didn’t have any prejudices against Whites as such. He didn’t like many of their attitudes.

	D:	Okay. So computer is acting up; its finger print. And I think McKissick has been understood in a lot of ways with Black Power. So my question to you is how did you and McKissick’s relationship build around Soul City? How did he approach you with Soul City? And when and how early?

	C:	Well what happened was, when I resigned from CORE. The day I resigned. I was offered a job in Washington D.C.

	D:	Can you tell me when you resigned? Do you remember maybe? Or maybe a frame? I’ll give you some dates. So Mckissick becomes the director in 1966.

	C:	So I resigned CORE in about [19]64, the end of [19]64. Somewhere around there.

	D:	Before he becomes director? C:	Yes.

	D:	Okay that’s all I needed to know.



	C:	I was still involved. I resigned from the staff. I was still involved in stuff. So anyway, what happened with it. So when I got. When I got fired[laughter]. I







didn’t get fired. I would’ve got fired had I stayed on. When I resigned from CORE. The day after that I had got resigned I was offered a job down in Washington D.C. in an organization called the Institute of Educational Research. Dr. Myron Woolwin managed that thing. Now Woolwin had been very interested in CORE. And he met McKissick through me. Okay. And so McKissick. So McKissick was trying to get the concept of Black capitalism implemented. In addition to Soul City he was gonna have Blacktop restaurants. It was gonna have whole series of Black owned businesses was his concept. An import/export company on and on. And so he and I had become really good friends from the day back in Durham in 1960 when we worked to together organizing these kids and stuff okay—So Floyd and I had become really close friends. And so he asked me if I could help him on this project we were doing with—I’m not even sure it was named Soul City at that point. This New Town in North Carolina. At that time, it was nothing on paper it was just an idea in his mind. [Inaudible].

	D:	This was in D.C.? Yaw were talking in D.C.?



	C:	He was in New York, but he was in touch with the people down in Warren County. T.T. Clayton.

	D:	Okay, Eva Clayton.







	C:	Eva Clayton. They were all good friends and good associates. But he needed help organizing this thing. So he asked me if I could help. And I said well you know…

	D:	He called you? Or y’all were face to face? C:	Oh I don’t remember.

	D:	Oh you don’t remember.



	C:	Anyway he asked me if I could help him. And um. When I had a job working for Institute of Education Research. Now sometime around this, just before he asked this question. The Institute of Education Research was it was changed from a non-profit to a for-profit company called Global Systems. And Global Systems was acquired by one of the largest fortune five-hundred companies. A company called—well at that time it was called Corn Products company. Later on it changes the name, but anyway. They were one of the leading, one of the largest food producing companies, making foods in the world. Okay?

	D:	Yes.



	C:	They had trained. And so the Institute for Educational Research was a training organization. That’s what we did. So they inquired us, they talked us into converting into a for-profit World System and then there was a guy…it’s really funny because there was a guy at Corn Products. His name was Bennet Kline. Now Bennet Kline was a right-wing Republican.







Okay? Now back in those days Right wasn’t as crazy as the Right wings today.

	D:	Correct. [Laughter]



	C:	But for example, his wife was actually chair person. Ben Kline’s wife was chair-person of the Goldwater for President.

	D:	Okay.



	C:	For the women’s section of it. She was ahead of the women’s group.



Women for Goldwater.



	D:	Okay.



	C:	But Bennet, even though, as right wing as he was—see and maybe—at some point and sometimes the right and the left kind of conjoined. They become friends. So [inaudible] during the second World War you had pacifist and you had isolationist together, working together against going into the war. So, Bennet Kline felt like wow, what can be better for the country than to have a healthy Black capitalist society. Okay. So he became very much involved with Floyd also.

	D:	Now Bennet was he Black or White? C:	White.

	D:	He was White. Okay making sure. Okay.



	C:	He was one of the senior Vice-Presidents of Corn Products.







	D:	Of Corn Products. Okay.



	C:	And in fact, he was in charge of their whole world-wide acquisitions and stuff like that.

	D:	Why would he be interested in Black capitalism? What is point, his niche, his angle?

	C:	Well at that time there were a number of White Republicans who were convinced that they wanted to keep people off the street. They didn’t want sit-ins. I didn’t want all that crap.

	D:	Yeah. [Laughter]



	C:	But they felt like there were a number of them who would really like to become capitalists and they could get involved in a lot of healthy activities that were really Republican type activities. So to Bennet’s eyes that was— Floyd McKissick was perfect because Floyd, he was radical, he was Black power, but believed in capitalism. Floyd always felt like and this is not just Floyd this is true if you go back in the history if you own land you could have some power. Without land you don’t have much at all. Right? And so that kind of fed Floyd’s interest in building a city. And owning these other kinds of businesses. And that appealed to Bennet Kline and it appealed apparently to other people within—

	D:	The right wing.







	C:	Well within Corn Products company and any other Republicans. For example, when we were organizing Soul City one of the biggest problems you have to have you if you’re gonna have a city you gotta have industry. Well who owns industry? There is no Black General Motors. So somehow you gotta get people who are willing to cooperate and I give you an example. When we tried to organize industry Bennet Kline introduced us to somebody at the National Chamber of Commerce, which is far right- wing organization. And also at the— what’s it called? It’s like the Chamber of Commerce but it’s when a lot of industries come together and have their own organization. Chamber of Commerce is more so mostly for retails. I can’t think of the name of it right now. But anyway, we had one of the top people from this organization of industries meet with us and they were going help get industry into Soul City. We had a lot of support from White businesses. If you think about it now, in North Carolina, North Carolina used to be a fairly respectable state. It’s a disaster today but it used be rather interesting. When we were going to get the commitment from HUD for the Soul City funds. We had to get the support of the Governor, we had to get the support of the legislature, we had to get the support of local businesses. We had to get county commissioners, [inaudible], we had to get the city of Henderson, Oxford and other places to come out and agree that they were going to help us, that they would support us because [Inaudible] ain’t gonna fund something if the whole community wouldn’t







support it. We had all kinds of support from the White government at all levels in the state of North Carolina.

	D:	Unanimous.



	C:	Hm?



	D:	Unanimous.



	C:	Well accept for a couple of people.



	D:	Like Helms. We’ll get to that. [laughter]



	C:	The way we got to the governor of North Carolina to go ahead sign it. He actually signed the application to HUD to fund us. Okay? The way that we go to him was that Floyd knew the former president of Duke [Terry Sanford]. My memory of names is bad. Anyway, so we got to meet him.

The former governor of North Carolina who was now president of Duke University. Floyd and I met him in his office and um…

	D:	Terry Sanford.



	C:	In Durham.



	D:	Sanford. Was it Sanford? Terry Sanford?



	C:	Yes Terry Sanford. We met him in his office and Floyd told him that look— see Floyd and Sanford they knew each other for a long time, because...So anyway. So, and Sanford [inaudible] owned a bunch of those segregated restaurants.







	D:	Oh really?



	C:	[Laughter] That’s another story. So we went to meet Terry Sanford and told him look we have to get support from the Governor of North Carolina and order to let this thing go. And so he talked us around and he said “Okay, well look I never made a request of the new Governor but I’m going to do so. I’m going call.” So he picked up the phone and call him and right there on the spot. And he said I got Floyd McKissick in here and I want to have you meet him ‘cause [Inaudible] project in Warren County with Soul City and think that maybe he can help you as far as you can help him. And so the Governor said “Great.” So we went over and met him and eventually there was some [inaudible] negotiations but the negotiations involved a bunch of things. One of them was that in addition to planning money just for Soul City, we had to have planning money for the region.

And the state had to have some of that planning money so they could start planning regions throughout the whole [Inaudible]. You now have these like in North Carolina you have these regional councils of government.

And its pretty much national here. Well North Carolina was just in the process of trying to set up regional councils of government. So the Governor saw this as an opportunity and some of the planning staff to get money to do this. Because if they could get a large grant from HUD so then the state would then be able to have some of it to use for state staff and some of it used to create a model council of governments up in Warren County. But it would be Warren County, Vance County, and







Granville County. I forget how many counties are in there now. Five different counties. And those five counties would help form the first regional council of governments in the state of North Carolina. With the money that we helped them get. Okay? So quid pro quo was that the state got money to do their planning and we got money to do our planning.

Okay.



	D:	From HUD. So yaw would take some of the money from HUD? C:	From HUD.

	D:	Gotcha.



	C:	And so there were a lot of people who were in favor of this. So when Soul City was first announced there was a lot fantastic national press. New York Times, Washington Post, Charlotte Observer, and a little newspaper in Warren County. Do you know Warren County a little bit?

	D:	Yeah, yeah.



	C:	Okay, Warren County is one of the poorest counties in the state, one of the most, one the highest percentages of Black populace in the state. And two of my daughters went to high school [inaudible] junior high school in Warren County Public Schools. And that how—matter of fact my wife and I kind of got separated from my first wife. Because she didn’t want the children to go to school in Warren County because it was an all-Black school. But my second wife had two kids, two little girls, and when she, when we got married. She brought her two little White girls up to Warren







County and they came, the students at the school there. There were like two or three other White kids. They weren’t the only ones. But the whole school system couldn’t have been more than one-half percent White. It was all-Black. And both these White kids of White and my children now. I adopted them. So both of those kids became…went on to college and they’ve all had advanced degrees now. But they grew up in this Warren County school system. When the teach walks in in the morning and everybody stands up and say “Good morning Ms. So and So.” And they have the pledge of allegiance to the flag and they do all this stuff. So there was a lot of support. Warren County newspaper. They were the greatest newspaper. There were two old men. [inaudible] Jones and I forget his brother’s name. The ran the Warren newspaper. They printed everything. They supported us like crazy. They editorialized, they did all this stuff.

Supported what Floyd was doing what I was doing, etcetera and we got endorsements from all these other counties and all these other little towns around. And the chairman of the county commissioners in Warren County was Gerald Bowers. He was a former head of the state National Guard.

And a matter of fact he was guy who sent the National Guard into Greensboro when they had those riots in Greensboro some years—

	D:	Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. The Greensboro Massacre.



	C:	Yes. He had sent the, General Bowers had sent the Guard in there to try to quite things down. General Bowers also one of our greatest supporters.

	D:	General Bowers is White?







	C:	All those people were White. Yes, in county government.



	D:	In county government. Okay. Even those two newspaper guys? C:	They all were White.

	D:	And what was the name of the Warren news…it was called what? Warren newspaper?

	C:	Warren County Press I think it was. I think it’s the Warren County Press.



	Big Earl Jones was the editor of it. And they— D:	They supported it.

	C:	Boy did they support it. They were wonderful. And all the times when the News and Observer started attacking us and stuff they argued with the News and Observer but that’s another story. But we just had support all over the place. Now, the reason they had all that support was because they saw the benefit that we could bring. Because Soul City we set up a Regional Water System. The Regional Water System we got that funded. I wrote the application for the funding of it. Okay. And I negotiated most of it. So as a result of that Henderson got water so they could expand.

Oxford got water so they could expand. They all dreamt for a long time they got this great water supply but they can’t tap into it in a meaningful way. And we provided them the means of getting

D:   Of getting to the water.







	C:	And so General Bowers he didn’t exactly believe in Democracy. Back in those days many, many counties were run by one guy.

	D:	One Big Bad Sheriff.



	C:	And when General Bowers wanted the county commissioner to do something they did it. Okay. And for example with county, the county had to pass a resolution endorsing Soul City. And there were a lot of people in the county that didn’t like the idea, but some of the businesses did. But some people didn’t. So anyway. So when they had to pass a resolution they had to have a public hearing. So General Bowers called this public hearing. But her had the meeting of the commissioners before that public hearing. Logically you have that public hearing then you vote. Right? No he didn’t do it that way. He had the meeting. And when the meeting was over he called in the public people to and said “The commissioners are endorsing the idea of Soul City. So we would like to hear your opinions.”

	D:	So they decided first and then hear the— C:	They would ask.

	D:	Okay, I see.



	C:	So that’s how we got things done up there. And then he appointed me to be one of the commissioners to represent Warren County on this Board of Commissioners, for the Council of Governments. And so, when we started we put up five house trailers. Floyd McKissick had a trailer. I had a trailer.







And next to his, next me was Jane Groom, the Grooms had a trailer. Two other trailers—

	D:	McNeil?



	C:	Yeah McNeil. Okay so—



	D:	Aight so keep your thought, but Bennet Kline. You knew Bennet Kline first right?

	C:	Yeah.



	D:	And you introduced Bennet Kline to Floyd McKissick right? Is that how that goes? Just want to make sure I get that clear.

	C:	Yeah well Dr. [Inaudible]Mike [Inaudible] and I introduced Bennet Kline to McKissick because Bennet—Floyd—my boss [Inaudible] had become a good friend of McKissick too. And so the two of us worked with and we were the ones that introduced Bennet Kline to him.

	D:	Okay now my next question so Nixon is late to the party because from research that I got is that Nixon concocted this idea of Black Capitalism. So what’s the connection between Bennet Kline and it reaching the Nixon administration? How does that connect?

	C:	Okay that’s complicated. Why did he misunderstood too— because Warren County as you know was an all-Black county. But there were certain, the Claytons, T.T. Clayton and his wife and he had a partner







Frank Ballance was one of Clayton’s partners. Unfortunately, Balance made a few moves—problems later on and went to federal prison.

	D:	Yeah I heard about that



	C:	But anyway. So Clayton and Ballance and some more Black people they did the research on you formed a Republican party in Warren County. And see there was no Republican government.

	D:	So why they only form a Republican Party?



C:  Because the Democratic Party was all racist and they were the powers that be. And so they had to get something different because they didn’t have a chance as Democrats. Whose gonna listen to them, you know? Because the White power structure was run by all these politicians.

D: Were Democrats. C:   Were Democrats.

	D:	But they’re supporting Soul City though.



	C:	Wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute. Now what happen was, go back a little before that. Clayton and Ballance and some others with Floyd knowledge of it and discussion of it decided that they wanted to form a Republican Party in Warren County because that was the only way they could get involved in politics. You could not get involved in the Democratic Party if you were Black.







	D:	And so Frank Ballance and T. and Clayton they wanted to get involved in politics.

	C:	Right. So they did the research. Probably Clayton did as an attorney. He did the research to find out okay what do you have to do to set up a new political party in the state of North Carolina and so they, one thing you have to do you gotta publish in the newspaper and you gotta have meeting etcetera and invite the public into it. So they did that but you know…when White people and politicians saw the names on the thing Frank Ballance, Clayton, T.T. Clayton, etcetera—they weren’t gonna attend that meeting. So one White Republican did because he was—pI don’t know how that happened but anyways so they had this organizing meeting of the Republican Party and what they had to do then. They had to go down to the state and to the state office in Raleigh and tell them we want you to charter us as the Republican Party. So walked into the Republican—I wasn’t there—they walked into the office of the Republican Party in North Carolina and they said “Well we are your Party in Warren County and we want you to charter us officially,” and they had their documents. “Here’s what we did, here’s the public meeting we had, here’s the resolutions we had, etcetera…And at that point they had no choice. So they said “Okay you’re the Republican Party.” So all of a sudden now there was a Republican Party in Warren County and I grew up as a Democrat, before that a Socialist, we can’t register Socialist so I was Independent but I became a Republican while I lived in North Carolina. I







became Republican because that was the only party that were willing to work with us. So the Republican Party in North Carolina all of a sudden had Black people attending their National Convention and stuff. And there were some other Blacks from other counties because not every county was as backwards as Warren was. But the idea of Black Republicans doing this stuff became like kind of Colorado. And people, other Black Republicans from around the state wanted to join in and they became active and so I don’t know. I don’t know exactly what happened. How on a national level the Republicans got involved but I will say this Spiro Agnew does that name mean anything to you?

	D:	Some what?



	C:	He was the Lieutenant Governor of the state of Maryland. D:	Okay.

	C:	And there was Newtown movement. This had started in Maryland, Columbia, Maryland and the other one. So Spiro Agnew somehow or whether became a big advocate of Newtowns. Nothing to do with Soul City, just Newtowns. And he felt that was great idea, unfortunately he got in trouble and went to prison too. [laughter]. But that what happens. He was White of course as the Lt. Governor of Maryland, but he got in trouble as a bag man carrying money into the Nixon people. But he convinced some of the Nixon people that the idea of Black Power would be a really good thing for them to embrace. And so they did and they begin to support







us. As background Floyd and I had gone to visit White Senator. Who was the guy that guy that got in trouble with the—

	D:	Just give me the state. What happened?



	C:	He was in a boat with some young lady who was not his wife and she died.

	D:	Kennedy. Ted Kennedy.



	C:	We were trying to get support from anybody. Floyd and I went to meet with Ted Kennedy and this all was in Washington. This was after Chappaquiddick. After that. It may have been too soon after that. That may be a problem here but anyway. We were willing to talk with him. We told him about Soul City, etcetera—and what we want to do, needed his support. [Coughs]. And he said well he would put us in touch with his banker in Boston and so he would talk to the banker and he gave us the name and number to go up there and talk to. He said “I’m sure he’ll be glad to set up a meeting and think about this.” So thought that’s great. We thanked him and left. A week later when we called Boston to the banker that he was supposed to meet that Kennedy was supposed to set up with? He never heard of us. He didn’t know anything about it. Mr. Kennedy said “He was going to talk to you. I haven’t heard from him.” So we waited a few more weeks and called him again. And he practically said look you guys don’t call me again about this because I don’t know anything about it. That was kind of typical. Well we also talked to the Governor of New York







about one of the dynasty of Governors up there. He White Republican—I mean White Democrat Governor—no he might not have been a Republican, but anyway he was a White Governor they were trying to get some votes from him. Got nowhere. The only people that would listen to us were Republicans [inaudible]. And that was partly because of Spiro Agnew, okay? Who believed in Newtowns. When we asked [inaudible] we got nowhere with the Senator Kennedy. Bennet Kline, our good Republican friend here, he said “Okay I want you to call the Senator.

There was a right-wing Republican Senator in New York at that time. Call him and I’ll him first and so he’ll expect your call. So you wanna go up and talk to him. So he set up that meeting. So we went up and met with him.

And he said that he was interested he said they listened to all this, he listened to us and he said that’s really everywhere. And said now I think, there’s a young fella who’s at the Office of Economic Opportunity in Washington. And Nixon had appointed this young fella as an interim appointee. And he just happened to be president of the young Republicans for freedom or some damn thing. A far right wing guy and so we talked to him.

	D:	You remember his name? [End of Interview]

Transcribed by: Anthony Donaldson, Jr



Audit edited by: Sandra Romero, August 11, 2021







Final edited by: Sandra Romero, September 22, 2021