AAHP 477; Roberts; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 477 Stephen Roberts African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Heather Gonyeau on August 31, 2018 9 minutes | 5 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Mr. Stephen Roberts, former director of the University of Florida’s Institute of Black Culture, expresses his deepest thanks toward all of the individuals that have come together to construct the building for the Institute of Black Culture. Additionally, Mr. Roberts stresses the vitality of the Institute of Black Culture on the history of the University of Florida’s campus, and he specifically outlines the impacts it will have on Black students seeking a familiar, secure environment.



Keywords: [African American History; Institute of Black Culture; University of Florida]





















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 477

Speaker: Stephen Roberts

Event: Farewell to Institute of Black Culture Date: January 27, 2017



	R:	Hello, everybody. [Audience]: Hello

	R:	Please excuse my voice. I am using the last bits of it for you all tonight. [Laughter]

	R:	It was an honor to be reached out and invited me to be a part of this ceremony, giving the reflections for the IBC. I really began to reflect on—first of all, I was the director of the Institute of Black Culture from 2000-2005.

[Cheers]



	R:	And a hoo-tee-hoo to you, too. [Laughter] And I really didn’t plan anything. As it was, original [inaudible 00:45] talk to you about that today. But I did— whatever comes forth from my heart, that’s what I want to say and as I came in I began to look at the pictures of all the events and the wonderful faces and Black students, the students that have supported. There are several things that came to mind.

So, there’s only three things I want to talk about real briefly. The first thing I want to give is thanks. I want to give thanks for the sacrifice that the alumni made to bring this building into position. And they did it out of necessity. And what’s interesting is that they did it, they contributed towards something that most of them did not get the opportunity of having the privilege of being a part of. The other thing I want to give thanks to is for those directors such as Vee. And all those directors that have come since the inception of the IBC, because in all their own way, they invested nice days, years, of blood, sweat, tears, because it was something that they believed in and it was students that they believed in and it









was a cause that they believed in. And regardless of whatever the obstacles were that they faced during that time, their fight was still relentless, up to this day. So thanks to all of those directors and administrators. I’ve a special word from Ms. Alma Johnson, most of whom you may have—who knows Alma Johnson in this room? Ms. Alma Johnson was the executive secretary at the institute, and she began her tenure at the IBC in 1971. So she has served under every director at the IBC except Vee. She retired at that point in time and the intent was to get her out here tonight but she wasn’t able to make it tonight. But she did say that in the future she wants to be kept in the loop and she wants to support. You want to talk about the history of the institute, that’s who you need to talk to. And most importantly I want to say thanks to all of you. Because without the legacy being pushed forward and being carried forward, then there is no IBC, there is no story. Going back to reflections, the pictures made me think about the same challenge, different era. Black students coming into this institution. They want a transition, they want a new home, they want to feel safe, they want to feel supported, they want to graduate and they want to be successful. It doesn’t change, no matter what the generation, no matter what the era. So you begin to see the legacy and the importance of the IBC, you being to understand for all these years, this is what it has done for those students that have come before you and those students who will come after us. This is the importance of the IBC, I’ll never forget. And more importantly, one of the things I was taken aback, because I come from Miami and I came from an all-Black high school—well it wasn’t all Black. It was 99.99999%. [Laughter] And I remember when my students started









confiding in me and said: “Mr. Roberts, this is the greatest number of Black students that I have ever been around in my life.” Now how remiss am I, because that took me aback? But that’s what the IBC is for: to provide that opportunity to transition. The IBC is there to provide the opportunity, the exposure, and this student went on to become one of my best emissaries ever while—well he was ambassador, sorry. [Laughter] Finally, it’s perspective. Looking back on all of the things that we have to give, looking back on all the blood, sweat, and tears that were invested in this place, looking at you that continue to push this forward. We have to keep this in perspective, and the perspective is that it is great, for me in particular, seeing the new building for the IBC was a discussion that we began over ten years ago. But you all brought it into fruition. But the IBC must continue to grow, to be greater than the space that is gonna be allocated on this campus. It has to reflect the place that it has in all of our hearts and all of our souls and all of our minds. It has to grow larger than the space because while we will have a new building in a couple of years, guess what? In another forty-something years, that building’s gonna be old too. And without the culture, without the spirit, without the oomph, without the perspective that we have to continue to pass on. And I have to say, first of all, she’s been given a lot of thanks but we gotta give Vee—come on y’all, you have to do better than that.

[Applause]



	R:	I haven’t been as involved, I had this thing going on when I left, I said I have to move and I have to let the IBC become for the new directors and I think I did that a little too well and I need to correct that in 2017. But I have kept my eye on the









IBC and she’s done a wonderful job. And so now the discussion is how do we take this to beyond the space? We were trying to argue so that when the IBC became parts of the tools, when you have admission tools, the IBC is just as much a part of UF history as anything else that’s going on on this campus. So, when you have students and families and parents that come into this institution, they need to know that one of the reasons why this campus is as great as it is, and is supportive as it is—even though it still needs work, we all have to grow—it is, in large part, because of the IBC. So, closing, those are the three things we have to always give thanks, we have to always reflect on where we come from, but we have to always keep in perspective of what we’re doing and where we are going and we have to—the terrace that I was given by my associate assistant dean, he said: “Stephen, your job is to get the IBC to the point where it works without you.” And he said: “You may not understand this at this time.” And I’m thinking, “That guy [inaudible 08:33] no job.” [Laughter] But what he was saying was, it can’t be to the point that the impact of the IBC is only as strong as the person who is the director at the time. The impact has to precede, has to go beyond that person. It has to continue to live and exist beyond their tenure at that institute so that when it continues to grow on the shoulders of giants. That is our challenge. And I have to say that looking from the distance, you all have done a great job. My hat’s off. Thank you.

[Applause]



[End of Interview]









	Transcribed by:	Heather Gonyeau, August 31, 2018 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero

	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 28, 2019