AAHP 109; Demps; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 109 Chester Demps African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on August 20, 2010 14 minutes | 9 pages



Abstract: Rev. Chester Demps discusses his experiences going to Jerkins High School in Perry, Florida. He describes living in Perry all his life, except for the time of his service in the US Army during the Vietnam War. He also relates some of his family history in Perry. Rev. Demps reflects on the particular personal importance he places on the athletics program at Jerkins, and how it impacted him later in life and prepared him for leadership positions. He discusses also the influential role that certain teachers had on him and his peers, and also reflects on the impact of segregation on Jerkins and on Black life in Perry more broadly.





Keywords: [African American History; Taylor County, Florida; Jerkins High School; US Military Veterans]

Standards:

SS.912.A.7.5 Social activism





SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.





























For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 109

Interviewer: Marna Weston Interviewee: Chester Demps Date: August 20, 2010



	W:	This is August 20, 2010. This Marna Weston with the Proctor Oral History Program. I’m speaking to Reverend Demps at the Jerkins High School Reunion. Thank you for taking the time to speak with me.

	D:	We’re glad to be here and glad to have a chance to speak to you. W:	Thank you. Would you please state your full name, sir?

	D:	My name is Chester H. Demps. I’m the presiding elder of Mount Sinai Holy Church in the state of Florida.

	W:	And, what class of Jerkins were you, sir? D:	I’m from the class of 1963.

	W:	And, what is your date and year and place of birth please? D:	I was born in Perry. February 8, 1945.

	W:	And, have you always lived in Perry?



	D:	Yes, all of my life; except the time that I was in military.



	W:	And, what branch of the military were you in and where did you serve? D:	I was in the Army, and I served during the Vietnam era.

	W:	Were you at Fort Bragg? Where were you at?



	D:	I started off at Fort Benning for basic, then, I went to Fort Jackson for AIT training, and then, I entered in July of that same year. That same year I enter Vietnam and stayed a year.

	W:	I know it’s been many years and you probably have many thoughts about it, but before I speak about Jerkins, I was just curious, what was that Vietnam experience like for you?





	D:	Well, I’m from a group of twelve boys and I have eleven other siblings – males – and we always thought that we were always proud to serve our country.

	W:	Can you tell me the names of your brothers please?



	D:	My oldest brother’s name is John Demps Jr. My next brother is named Thomas Demps. The next one is Jimmy Demps, Charles Demps, Chester Demps, Newt Demps, Harry Demps, Alexander Demps, Joseph Demps, George Demps, Willie Dean Demps, and Herman Kent Demps.

	W:	And, who are your mom and dad?



	D:	Sarah. My daddy was John Demps and my mother was Sarah Demps. W:	And, where were they born?

	D:	My Momma was born around the Ocala area and my daddy was born in Greensville.

	W:	And do you have their dates of birth or approximate dates of birth?



	D:	Not really. Momma was born in probably in 1920 and daddy was probably born in the 1800s sometime because he was probably thirty years or better older than Momma.

	W:	Do you have children yourself, sir? D:	Yeah. I got two children.

	W:	What are their names?



	D:	I got a girl named Sharita Hope Demps which is a lawyer in Atlanta and, then, I have a son named Cory Demps that is a student at the vocational school studying welding right now.

	W:	Are you married, sir?





	D:	Yes, I’m married.



	W:	And, your wife’s name?



	D:	My wife’s name is Carolyn Demps and she just retired from the school system as the Director of Pre-K.

	W:	Now, I don’t want to get you in trouble. Do you remember her date of birth? D:	March 29, 1945.

	W:	Very good, sir. I know that that would be important. [Laughter] We probably should have talked to you before I asked you off the mic and said well do you know it and then ask the question, so we stay friends. [Laughter] So, what does this Jerkins High School celebration and dedication of an historic marker mean to you?

	D:	Well, all of my brothers attended Jerkins school and we was real fond of Jerkins, and it meant a lot to me as a person to be able to come back to Jerkins and enjoy the festivity and meet the other classmates and just a chance at fellowship. We’ve been doing some work here from time to time with the grounds, and we are with the project to help do the walkway here.

	W:	What activities were you involved with when you were a student here at Jerkins? D:	Well, I was a football player, basketball player, and I ran track.

	W:	Which one were you best at?



	D:	Well football, perhaps. I was an all-conference player in football and we was, also, undefeated. I played on two undefeated teams of football.





	W:	Now, you talk about an undefeated football season. That is an incredible accomplishment at any time, at any age, what to you attribute that to, that your team was able to be successful twice in that regard?

	D:	Well, because Coach Turner was a real coach. He was not only a coach, but he was father figure to the men that needed a father and he was friend figure, and Coach Bell was a younger guy, so he was a friend figure to all of us and they really showed concern about us. One thing about Jerkins, the people in Jerkins loved us and, in spite of anything that happened, they had our best interest at heart.

	W:	Someone said that those are the criteria and formula for leadership. Do you think that Jerkins made a leader of you and what is your definition of leadership?

	D:	One that are able to take charge, see something that need to be done and be willing to do it. The first time I ever received a leadership position was on the football field. I became the captain of the football team, and it was the beginning of a good thing because, when I went into the Army, I received a leadership position in the army. In Vietnam, I became a team leader of a machine gun squad, and I spent all of my time at headquarters after I got out of Vietnam and got back in the United States.

	W:	How did you translate your experiences here at Jerkins High into leadership that helped you form the rest of your life and your successes?

	D:	Well, they always taught us to do the best you can. Now, the best you can might not be making all As or all Bs, the best you can might be a C, but they made us





feel as proud about a good C well-earned and made us proud about ourselves as long as we were doing our best and giving our all.

	W:	I heard a lot this evening about Jerkins being a community from all of your classmates and the community members who are here and you, also, gave a very soulful prayer that asked for guidance and blessings from on high, and it seemed to have some of those same elements. What is it about Jerkins that makes you feel the way that you do now that you are able to deliver that prayer?

	D:	Well, because regardless the circumstances, I realize that the people in Jerkins love me and, as a I mature and grow older, I remember they always had my best interest at heart. And the teachers were more. They was not here just for a check because the check was very little, but they was here because they loved us and they was concerned about the better for us.

	W:	You’ve been reacquainted with your hat. D:	Yeah. [Laughter]

	W:	It’s a nice lid. I do like it. Now, we’ve had kind of some sad statistics inside too. The members of the Taylor County Leadership Council, Dr. Horace McCloud, was telling us that we have a large a percentage of African American males not graduating from high school, that we have drop outs. That didn’t seem to be the case when Jerkins was a school and I want to know what you think attributed to that that before integration the kids seem to graduate and have success and after integration they didn’t.

	D:	School was a real challenge for us and it was a place to go and they expected graduation of us, and, then, if we didn’t graduate, and even after graduation we





had to go to the saw mills to the log woods and take mediocre jobs. I was blessed. At eighteen years old, after graduation, I was employed. Proctor and Gamble hired me and I spent thirty-two years with Proctor and Gamble. It was an upscale job that I’d done real well in.

	W:	What kind of lessons can what you learned here at Jerkins High School play, not only for students today in this community, but for people throughout the country looking for solutions to helping their students do better and helping them go out and be positive leaders and benefit the community and the world?

	D:	Well, we had a lot of teachers here, and especially one named Ms. Laura Jenkins, was one that used reverse psychology on us and she helped to control us using reverse psychology. Her and Ms [inaudible 8:31] was masters of reverse psychology.

	W:	Could you give me an example and explain what you mean by that?



	D:	Well, if you would act out of character or cut up, she would remind you that it would be easier to get to the prison system and become a—than it would to become anything else. And, so, she really put the fear in our heart for wanting to be a prisoner. And, then, they taught us that we had to produce. We need to a have a sellable skill and we need to produce. And, when we get on a man job we need to perform enough for him to make some money where you can make some money.

	W:	Everyone here seems to be very joyous. There’s laughter and there’s people getting together and just talking about the old times. How does it make you feel to be here tonight?





	D:	It’s just a wonderful time that we can come back together in friendship. I’m here with ten of my classmates. Some of them that live out of town and we hadn’t seen in a long time. Our class was a very class, about thirty in our class, about fifty graduated, and we was real close. We was like brothers and sisters. We shared with one another, and we was concerned about one another and we’d meet together. Some of the boys come home, and here for a while, and we gonna have a meal afterwards and just get a chance to reminisce and enjoy one another.

	W:	Where were you when you found out that Jerkins High was closing and what was your reaction when you heard that?

	D:	Well, I had just returned from the military and I just had got out of the military and I had brothers that graduated in the last graduating class. I had two brothers that graduated in the last graduating class and I was to the graduation when and we’d come to the realization that Jerkins was closing. I think if we’d have had equal representation and had the same fair amount of books and other things that Jerkins would’ve been a better thing. But, most of the time we was in a second- class society. In Vietnam, I fought ten thousand miles for the Vietnamese freedom, but I would’ve been killed in war, I couldn’t be buried in the city cemetery in Perry and that’s a shame.

	W:	I had to chance to meet very briefly with the single African American member of the school board here in Taylor County and we didn’t have the chance to talk about any details, but I had heard, I wanted to have a chance to talk to him, but I didn’t, about the low number of African American teachers that there are in the





school district. Considering the closing of [Jerkins] and reassignment or non- hiring of Black teachers, what do you think that that says that there are so few Black teachers in the school district?

	D:	And, there are so few of Black teachers want to work in Perry as well. I think that if the person present themselves and seek employment, I believe that they will be considered for the job. And, I think the reason we don’t have any more Black teachers is because the kids that are finishing school in education have no desire to live in Perry because they are limited resources and limited entertainment. So, you got one or two good jobs and most times, the people that are raised here, when they get exposed to other areas, [they] don’t want to come back here. I got a daughter, a lawyer in Atlanta, that’s running for the House of Representatives now, but she don’t want to come back to Perry and practice law.

	W:	What does that mean for the kids that are here, if the people who have success and were tied of the community in the past and their parents and the best and brightest don’t want to come back here? What can be done for the kids that are here in the Perry school system now?

	D:	I think we got to realize that you can make a living here like I made a good living here and a bunch of my brothers are still here that made a good living. I got a brother, Thomas, that been mayor five times in Perry. He was elected fourteen years [ago] in the County Commissioner and we have had a good life here. And, our wives, all of our wives, six of the Demps women were school teachers and most of them worked in this area.





	W:	I want to thank you for talking to me Reverend Demps. It was very insightful and I appreciate your thoughts and your candor.

	D:	Also, our pastor’s church is right across the street. W:	Okay, what’s the name of the church?

	D:	Christian Tabernacle. And, I’ve been presiding elder for the state of Florida, the complete state of Florida, for Mt. Sinai Holy Church.

	W:	Thank you. I’d like to thank you on behalf of our oral history program and on behalf of speaking to me this event and , in closing the interview, give the opportunity to have any comments you like, whether it’s about the interview or anything else and when you finish that’ll conclude the interview.

	D:	Well, my mother was about thirty, forty years younger than my father and my daddy had a good work [ethic] and my mother was from a group that was educated and she instilled education. My mother said, to go to school every day, you would have to stay quiet in class, you cannot disrupt the class and you must take advantage of every opportunity that presented. But, if you get out of order, she’ll handle it when you get home.

[End of Interview]





	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 18, 2019