AAHP 805; Busey; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 805 Christopher Busey African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Omar Sanchez on August 12,2020 1 hours and 23 minute | 34 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Dr. Christopher Busey talks about his early life, what he learned from his community, his time as an undergrad at the University of Florida, his time as a professor at the University of Florida, and his thoughts on Ethnic Studies. Dr. Busey talks about his family life growing up and the connections he made with people in his community. Busey credits his upbringing and his interactions to community to his understanding Black and Afro-Latinx identity and his research. This is due to the community that surrounded his growing up and his time as a teacher in Orlando, seeing what students went through on a daily basis. Busey also talks about his time as an undergraduate student mentioning how there used to be a program that used to recruit African American and Latinx students. This program taught future undergraduates what to expect from college and helped them through their undergraduate career.

Furthermore, Dr. Busey talks about his perspective of the University of Florida has changed since he’s become a professor. Lastly, Busey talks about the possibility of bettering Ethnic Studies at the University of Florida and what students and the administration needs to do to make it possible.



Keywords: [African American History Project, Joel Buchanan Project, JBA, African American Studies Department, African American Studies Program, Latinx Studies, University of Florida, Ethnic Studies, Community Learning, Education]

































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 805

Interviewee: Christopher Busey Interviewer: Omar Sanchez Date: August 12, 2020



S:  Hello my name is Omar Sanchez; I work with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. Today’s date is August 12, 2020. Thank you for being here with me, could you please introduce yourself?

	B:	I am Dr. Christopher Busey. I’m an Assistant Professor at the University of Florida in the College of Education. I’m also a graduate of the University of Florida, I completed my undergraduate degree at UF in 2006 in Political Science with a minor in Mass Communications and African American Studies.

	S:	Okay, cool, cool. Can I ask where are you from?



	B:	A little bit of everywhere. So, I was born in New York. I had childhood leukemia, so I moved up and down the east coast for treatment at various hospitals and I completed high school in Savannah, Georgia prior to coming to the University of Florida but at the time I also had family members in central Florida which is where we spent the majority of our holidays and summers and so on.

	S:	So, can I ask you a little about your family and your family’s history, like your family’s background? Can you tell me—

	B:	Yeah.



	S:	—a little more about that?



	B:	Yeah, sure thing. So, I don’t know my father so [Laughter] there’s not much to offer you there. I know that he was locked up at multiple points in his and throughout my lifetime growing up, so I don’t have much of a relationship with my father to be able to attest to his background, but I guess I’ll just speak to my maternal background and what I know from my maternal background. I guess





you could start with my grandparents who were born and raised in southern Georgia, not too far from the Florida-Georgia border, probably about an hour north of the Florida-Georgia border. Let’s see my grandfather was born in 1940, my grandmother was born in 1945 so they were born during the height of racial terror in the South. You’re talking lynchings. You’re talking racial violence and that left an indelible mark on them and then also influenced a lot of the conversations that they had with us, with their grandchildren. I was really close to my grandparents because I lived with them and had very close interactions with them for the earlier parts of my life up in New York. But yeah, my grandfather was one of twenty-four children, my grandmother was one of seventeen. So, you’re talking large families growing up on farms. In terms of compulsory education, my grandfather dropped out of school in the sixth grade, but it was primarily to support the family, right? You gotta work on the farm. You gotta feed twenty-four heads, twenty-six if you included mom and dad, right? And so, I come from a background where my grandfather pretty much did sharecropping work. He would go work on the White man’s farm in exchange for food as well as a small payment. My grandmother, on the other hand, completed high school down in Southern Georgia prior to meeting my grandfather. From there my grandparents were part of the migration north, right? The Great Migration North—excuse me—that I know a lot of people like to contribute to just World War II area, but this was ongoing, right? And again, this was to escape racial violence and racial terror, to escape lynching. They migrated to Rochester, New York where a lot of the family—I wouldn’t say a lot of the family, where some of





my grandfather’s brothers had already moved to work in Xerox and Kodak, right? You know these booming industries that became so dominant in the Rust Belt.

Rochester, Cleveland, Akron, Ohio that kind of—Detroit, that Rust Belt there. So, my grandfather moved up to Rochester, migrated to Rochester the day after King was shot. Martin Luther King was shot in [19]68. He said for him that was kind like the turning point and it’s not so much that they were influenced by King’s speeches or his practices as it was, it was just a moment. A moment of crystallization where “Yeah,” enough was enough with the racial violence and racial terror. Other brothers and sisters moved down to Miami, to Dade County, Liberty City, Carol City and so my family has a history in northeast Miami Dade as well. Give me a moment Omar.

	S:	Yeah.



	B:	I’m sorry this is the perils [Laughter] of being at home and trying to do these things. So, I’ll continue with my family history…my mother…honestly man, strangely I don’t know a lot about my mother’s upbringing in Rochester. I know that my grandparents upon the move to Rochester had really become involved in the church. My grandfather became a deacon in the church and a minister, and I know that definitely influenced how my mother and her siblings were raised my mother is one of six. So, I know that they put her in a private school, but my mother had me at—let’s see she got pregnant with me at eighteen and had me at nineteen and joined the military. She was stationed in Korea, Germany so she left me in New York with my aunt and my grandparents. So, I was kinda like co- raised between my aunt and my grandparents up in New York. I actually didn’t





live with my mother until I was eight years old. Yeah man, it’s a complex family history, I think. At this age I’m still learning a lot about my family just because there were so many questions that were not asked and I think a large part of it is due to being minoritized in the U.S. right? The race struggle as well as the class struggle. Then grow up with access to the university system, knowing what college was or anything along those lines were completely out of the question.

Like I said, my grandfather had a sixth-grade education so we’re growing up with a legacy of not so much formal education. My family definitely valued education I will say that but in terms of understanding the structures and the systems and how they enter into educational systems and navigate those systems that knowledge was minimal at best.

	S:	I want to touch back on something you said earlier. B:	Yeah.

	S:	You were talking about lessons you learned from your grandparents, can you elaborate a little more?

	B:	Yeah, yeah so at a very early age my grandfather would talk about race, but he would talk about race in a very—how would I put it? A very experiential way, alright? In the sense that I learned about race through his experiences not so much through lessons of how to navigate criminal justice systems or how to make sense what I would experience in high school and in college and on the job market and you know things of that nature. The conversations about race, he would talk to us about going down to the nickel store in downtown Waycross, Georgia for example when he was younger. This was like the family time, so him,





the brothers and sisters would get into three cars, they would pile up into the back of a pickup truck or pickup trucks and they would go into town, right? There were times when the Klan, the Ku Klux Klan, would come into the downtown area to kind of scare of Black families and Black folk, right? So, he would tell stories about this and just how they would be in the store, you know his brother or sometimes his dad would come around and be like, “Hey, let’s go guys we gotta wrap up, let’s head out.” Just because the hypervisibility and the presence of the Klan. Again, we’re talking about South Georgia so a lot of that stuff man it seems bizarre because you read about it in textbooks in a very unique compartmentalized manner, right? As if these terrorist groups because they’re domestic terrorist groups only kinda existed in the [19]20s and [19]30s but this was an ongoing feature of my grandparents’ lives and so they would often recount stories of race. On the flip side when I would talk to my grandmother, my grandmother would often talk about her schooling experiences and in particular some of the ways in which her schooling experiences were really foundational to her ability to navigate the world. So, with her being a Black girl in the South, schools are segregated during this time, but she spoke so favorably and highly of her school experiences and that kinda goes against the myth of how we tend to view segregated schools historically and that is—she spoke openly how her teachers were so adamant and intentional about political education. How adamant they were about making sure they knew what their constitutional rights were, for example in the case that families went to protests, right? Or wanted to become involved in some sort of resistance movement and so my grandmother





often recounted growing up with a, I think what we would consider now, a very high level of political education. Black teachers and Black principals were very adamant that the students were able to read and write and do so proficiently, not so much measured by an exam or test or something along those lines. That they were able to navigate this world and so those were like a lot of the lessons and stories that I would learn from my grandparents.

	S:	I think you touched upon this, you talked about how you learned about history in a neat and compartmentalized way so do you feel like you learned enough in school about your community? Or do you feel like you learned more from like your grandparents?

	B:	Aw yeah definitely didn’t learn anything in school about my community [Laughter]. A lot of those local and community histories just came from talking with the grandparents or even sometimes just having older family members at the house. My Uncle George he was a hallmark in the Carol City community down in Miami for years and just sitting around with him and my grandpa, sometimes fishing and they’ll just start telling these stories [Laughter] and that was really how I learned more about myself and my community. At the time I was just too young to realize it though. I’ve always had an attachment to the elderly in the family but still these were things I couldn’t really fully make sense of and conceptualize until I got a little bit older and also because of the work that I do I recognize the significance of those stories and at times just spent doing the storytelling, right?





	S:	You mentioned that your education was really important to your family so I guess can you go more in depth about what it meant for you do get into higher education and what it meant for your family for you to get into higher education?

	B:	Yeah, yeah so for me though, the pursuit of higher education was just that, I’m not sure it meant anything to me at the time other than “This is what I’m supposed to do: go to school, do well, go to college,” right? It wasn’t put out there that I had any other option [Laughter] so you know thankfully and gratefully I had always performed really well in school for the most part. I was always a motivated kid just in general and so again for me, a higher education was kinda like default which was strange because I’m the first in my family to graduate from college so it’s not it’s default in the sense that this is the family’s historical expectations so much as this was the family’s expectation for any sort of uplift, right? The common struggle Ibram Kendi talks about this in his book about educational uplift, the common myth and belief that if you go get your degree, you’ll have more options than I do. This is what my grandparents and even my mom would say, “I don’t want you to struggle like I had to do, join the military then retire, you’re working two jobs trying to support to kids by yourself.” So yeah, for me man it was kind of default like “Shit I didn’t have a choice yo.” [Laughter]. Where UF came to play was sports like again not knowing jack nothing about universities [Laughter], right? When you come from these types of backgrounds, working class, lower working-class backgrounds, right? That I’ve come from and that many minoritized Black and Latinxs do in this country. Really man, a lot of your exposure to the university was right in front of your eyes yo.





And sports was the way that I had come to know UF yo. Like growing up in the early to mid [19]90s watching Spurrier on TV I was like “That dude is really cool and I really like this sports team, I think this is my dream school. Believe it or not I know it sounds like really cliché but [Laughter] that was my introduction to UF. It wasn’t through a family member or a cousin or a relative or a friend of the neighborhood, it was literally through what I saw on TV. So, I aspired to go to UF simply due to what I saw on television.

	S:	Can you talk about the process of getting into UF? Like the application and all that, how was that for you?

	B:	Yeah man so I guess I got to give you a little bit more of a backdrop. So, most of the public schools that I attended were under resourced, underfunded, they were majority Black and Latinx and just the resources just weren’t there man like the AP course weren’t offered. We didn’t have no IB Programs, Cambridge programs, any of that kind of stuff that we see prevalent in schools today. So, my ninth-grade year I was attending a school, if I had to look back at it I’ll probably say the school is maybe ninety-nine percent Black [Laughter], Latinx, right?

There was a shooting at a pep rally my freshmen year and my mom was like, “Yo I want something different for you, I know you want to go to college or you’re going to go to college. In order for us to make this happen we’re going to have to transfer high schools.” So, she enrolled me in the magnet program at a fairly influent upper middle-class public school in the community. Shoot man, maybe like a thirty-five to forty-five-minute drive from where I actually lived and man this was eye opening. This was like I came from a school environment where we





were policed, where we surveilled, we had to have clear backpacks. We had to either have these clear plastic backpacks or mesh backpacks, we always had to have our shirts tucked into our pants because of a fear of weapons and so on. I go to this affluent school, I transfer in my sophomore year and I see White kids walking around with Birkenstocks, you know [Laughter] I’m like, “Man what’s going on?” And the small Black population that was there was your more middle class, so these were the parents who were college educated like my friend’s parents went to college, mainly HBCUs like Savannah State, Shaw, NC Central, FAMU. So, I was kind of thrust into a world man where like a lot of these concepts where foreign to me. Like meeting Black individuals who own homes and suburban communities like going to my friend’s houses was like—this was all bizarre to me. So, at this school I tested pretty well in the Pre-SAT, they put me in honors courses and AP courses, and I had a Black counselor at the school who was critical in helping me adjust to the academic expectations in this school but also sitting down with me to ask me, “What are you career aspirations, what are academic aspirations?” I would just tell her, “Yo I want to college. “What college?” UF. “Why?” “I saw it on TV [Laughter] it was my dream school.” So, navigating the application process, right? That starts early man, that doesn’t start your senior year, it should start your freshmen year but those weren’t conversations that they were having at my previous school. It was really man, this Black school counselor who would constantly sit down with me and the military recruiters would come in the school and again at the time I couldn’t make sense of it but when I looked back on it all the kids that where pulled out of class





to talk to the military recruiters were your Black and Latinx kids. She would always intervene, “Yo I saw that you talked to the military recruiter, they’re telling you to take the ASVAB test, I want you to make sure you get your SAT, ACT in. I want you to know you have other options.” I’m so grateful for her! So, my junior year, like spring of my junior year yo, there was a guy who used to work at UF his name was Mike Powell and believe it or not, I don’t know if you know this, maybe you’ve heard in some other oral history interviews, the University of Florida used to have a Minority Admissions Office. Crazy concept, right? [Laughter] To think of UF—so Mike Powell and Daisy Obowers , I know Daisy Obowers still works at UF, they ran two programs: The Outstanding African American High School Scholars Program and the Outstanding Latino/ Latina Scholars High School Scholars program. And what this program did was they had outreach with title one schools throughout the state of Florida and they started to expand that reach into Georgia. So, in the state of Florida these were schools like in Jacksonville, Raines, Ribault, Lee. In Orlando you’re looking at Evans, Jones, Oak Ridge; Miami, Carol City, Miami Norland, Miami Northwestern …what was another one? I want to say Southwest. I think they were trying to get into Coral Park where my wife went and then Tampa like Jefferson and Hillsborough, right? So, these are the school with large minoritized populations. Mike Powell had some kind of connection to my guidance counselor, and it was strange man because I’m going to school in Savannah, Georgia. This isn’t a hot bed for UF [Laughter] like recruiting or what not and she linked me with Mike Powell who invited me down to that African American High School Scholars Program thing. They would do this





during the summer semester, and we would stay on campus for two days. Imagine this like summer of your junior year of high school, they send you down to UF. Paid! Everything yo, everything paid. Put your parents up in a hotel off of Archer Road and they put the students in, I want to say it was like Broward or Jennings Hall. It was like in that area because I know we ate at Broward Dining and they would do this over the weekend. Then they would have a little DJ party, bro as a seventeen-year-old kid, as a junior in high school, you’re like that’s a wrap! I’m coming to UF [Laughter] for sure! Mike Powell sat down with us on that last day and we filled out paper applications on that last day and he was like, “I’m going to do everything in my power to get you guys into the University of Florida. If you’re doing your job in high school, your grades look good, you’re taking the classes you need to take, you know don’t have to necessarily need to meet these crazy admissions demands that are typically required of a student but if you’re showing me as a student from a lower working-class family that you’re grinding. That you’re doing what you need to do we can mitigate the other circumstances.” Man, it was Mike Powell and that Office of Minority Admissions that got me in. Yo it was a lot others like me I’m telling you. I want to say at the time when I attended UF undergrad, I was looking at some statistics. I want to say that we were like fourteen to fifteen percent Black. I think total Black and Latinx population we were probably hovering between the twenty-five to thirty percent range maybe total—I could be off with the statistics, but we had a thriving Black and Latinx population at UF and that was all due to this Office of Minority Admissions that was intentionally recruiting us out of these schools.





	S:	What do you think changed from now where it’s like we’re not recruiting as well for Black and Latinx students?

	B:	Yeah, Whiteness [Laughter]! S:	[Laughter] yeah.

	B:	I meant that like that’s the blunt response but one of the things that was happening man and I was talking to a homeboy of mine, he came up recently and we were just kicking it outside, social distancing but…I have such an adversarial relationship with the university now and part of that is due to what I experienced as an undergraduate student here and what I’m seeing now as a professor and I’m seeing students suffer man. So here’s the thing man, reality is and research shows you pull Black and Latinx students from underfunded and under resourced schools, right? From working class communities, you put them in a place like UF where you’re just a number [Laughter]…we struggled a bit and I’m speaking collectively like talking with friends and knowing what we went through like we had an amazing time here and we fostered a relationship, but we also struggled with the assumption that you just know what to do. The assumption that you know what a syllabus means. The assumption that—excuse me, you know when to register or how to register for classes. The assumption that you know how to pick a major based on your career interests. I meant like these are things that literally man all operate on assumptions. Like kids come and go throughout this university with very little guidance and you know you put kids from these backgrounds into a White Supremist university system and there’s just some asymmetry there, incongruence and so we didn’t graduate in





four years. I graduated in four years but man I don’t know many of my peers graduated in four years. Most took six to seven years to finish undergrad and if we didn’t finish undergrad the retention rates might be a little bit lower because you get here, you’re not prepared for the rigors of Macroeconomics which is offered online through TV. Like we used to watch the classes through the UF TV channel, and your grade is based off of three tests [Laughter], sometimes two.

So, kids were put on academic probation which means they lost their funding and if you ain’t getting the Pell Grant, or any kind of Bright Futures, or any kind of scholarship, you gone man. I’m enrolling at Miami-Dade Community College. I’m enrolling at Hillsborough Community College or Valencia or something. We know now that those things factor into how universities are ranked. The school rankings man at the time that I was an undergraduate student, me and my peers, isn’t wasn’t as much of a conversation. Now those last couple years, like [20]06, [20]07 when Bernie Machen, or Machen however you say his name, was hired that’s when the conversations about moving up the rankings started to occur and that’s when you started to slowly see a lot of these programs be cut, right? So, ADELEANTE which exist now, you have PAACT, you had AIM, those things were cut for years man ‘cause essentially, we just weren’t helping the university get the rankings bro. Now on the flip side what I started to see as well was especially in coming back was the Latinx student population started to increase but it was more of an affluent Latinx student population, who’s parents had some sort of college background but it’s different man ‘cause they come in with admissions that still help kind of boost the rankings in many ways. Also, what





we’ve seen change is from a focus from race and class to just class. So, pretty much our admissions programs were substituted with the Machen or Bernie Machen First Year or First-Generation Scholars program.

	S:	MFOS.



B:  Yeah! Yeah, which don’t get me wrong, it’s a good program but because its only class based it left out a lot of the race component that were involved in boosting the minoritized student population at UF for so long.

S:  That’s interesting I never knew there were stuff like ADELANTE or anything like that before like—

	B:	Aw man yo let me tell you this place used to be popping! [Laughter] Gainesville was a lot of fun, man. I made numerous friendships here man, I learned so much about myself, my upbringing. Met my wife here like I met just like this place felt different. It’s funny because we had racial incidents but because we were here, I think in a larger mass, we had a different way of dealing with those racial incidents. So, La Casita and the IBC, the old ones like these were like just meeting spots. Turlington Plaza, we used to call it the Set. Everyday was just like a meeting spot. So, when we had those racial incidents, we had places to unpack them, I think in a healthier way. We weren’t isolated. So, I remember some dudes yelled at my boy Bobby man like I want to say they were Pikes, one of them fraternities on University Drive. You know guys on a pickup truck drinking beer on a Friday afternoon, the man going to class or he’s walking back to his dorm from class and they’re yelling, “Hey N-word, get off our university.” You know that kind of stuff. Bobby comes to the set and he’s like “Yo man this just happened, man.” I





was ready to fight and we were all there like “Yo Bobby we got you man, we gonna handle this man, let them show up again, we gonna square ‘em up.” But don’t worry about it man we’re going to play dominoes at Gator Nights before we go get something to eat. So, we just had these spaces man. The process…a lot of the White supremacy and racist acts that we did see and experience that I think contributed to a healthier college experience for a lot of us.

	S:	Can you tell me about the difference between IBC and La Casita from now from back then?

	B:		Yeah so…again man I could be wrong because I’m going off of memory, there was a lot less programming from what I can recall in a sense that it was just more of an organic place than it was…” We’re going to have a Black Pride or Latinx Heritage or Pride event.” It was just a space you walked into man like it’s really hard to explain. You might have the fifty minutes between the class exchanges as an undergrad and your class might be on University, your dorm might be on Lakeside or Springs or something. You’re like, I’m just gonna pop off at La Casita and just chill with the homies man and that’s literally what we used to do just straight up walk into the building, “What’s up? What’s good? I’m heading upstairs to chill on the balcony.” That’s literally what we would do just grab our lunch, take it up there, hang out, talk. It was an organic space there was never any questions even as a Black individual, right? I identify as U.S. Black American even though I know my father isn’t but it’s my upbringing, but I would walk into La Casita and there wouldn’t be a question bro. [Laughter] It just wouldn’t be a question like I hand friends who were Lambdas, LTAs, and so on. So, my social group crossed





cultural and racial lines just head up and just kicked it man. It was just such an organic space. The new buildings now they’re nice bro, they’re nice [Laughter] don’t get me wrong but still, I don’t know. Maybe I have to go into them more, it’s still a different vibe when you walk into it. It feels like another UF production in some ways.

	S:	Yeah, I feel you on that. I heard stories about the old houses a lot and it just doesn’t seem the same.

	B:	Nah it doesn’t seem the same man! I mean I’m not putting down the administration and the efforts that so many people, especially Black and Latinx individuals having these new spaces built. Yeah, it’s just…you can build a new building, but I don’t know if you— you can’t recreate the relationships. That’s the thing man, you can’t recreate the space and the relationships that came from that type of space.

	S:	I guess I want to ask like what organizations were you involved with in your time at UF?

	B:	So, I was involved in the Black Political Science Student Association, I hope I said that right [Laughter]. I was a founding board member of the Virgil Hawkins Pre-Law Society which I’m not sure if it’s still around but that arose out of—I was a Pre-Law student, Poli-Sci major with a Mass Comm and Af-Am minor. A lot of the Pre-Law associations were like your White frat boy groups man. The good old boy system so it’s hard for people who look like me to break in. Myself and a multiracial group of individuals actually, Black, White, Latinx, Caribbean, Trinidadian, we founded the Virgil Hawkins Pre-Law Society to be more inclusive





for students who didn’t fit into the good old boys’ system. So, it wasn’t even just about race it was about class, it was about the type of work that you wanted to do. We started that, I’m not sure what came of it. There was that, there was Black Political Student Association…I’m trying to think what else was I involved in? I tried to walk-on to the football team but I punked out when the time came [Laughter]. My very best friend ended up making it onto the team. I was involved with the Minority Admissions Office, I received financial support like a financial scholarship to help pay for my tuition by the office and in exchange they’d ask you lead tours on campus. So, when they’d bring students on campus, you’d be asked to lead a tour, sometimes you’d be asked to visit a local high school like Eastside High or even sometimes go to Orlando or Tampa and table. I don’t know if y’all did this in high school, but universities used to come and set up tables outside of the lunchroom. You know the UF banner and you got your pamphlets and everything. I was involved with that and that’s all I could think of at the moment.

	S:	Okay, what was the difference between how you learned about your community in primary education to college? Did you learn more? Did you learn less? How was it?

	B:	That’s a good question! So I’m going to speak about my community in kind of a diasporic sense, in terms of Black folk, that was college. That’s where I started to engage more in the connections with Black folk across the diaspora, so speaking about community in a broader sense. That’s when my connections with the Black Caribbean community became stronger. Like I said with my grandparents and





family members being in central Florida having spent a lot of time in central Florida and also in my upbringing in New York, Afro-Latinos, Afro-Latinx were part of my upbringing. My godmother Alicia was Afro-Boricua so, I was aware of this but like learning that about that broader diasporic community came with college. In terms of learning about self and on a more localized scale, that didn’t happen in college. Even in primary school man, once I transferred to that affluent high school all notions of community went out the door. Again, I’m going to a high school thirty-five, forty-five minutes across town so they don’t even know anything about my community. But yeah man I would say once I hit high school and in particular that moment when I transferred, all sense of learning about community on a local scale was nonexistent. If it didn’t happen through the church or just through conversations in the neighborhood and stuff, it didn’t happen at all.

	S:	How did you learn about Virgil Hawkins? ‘Cause I know like even now students don’t know about him, they know of him as a concept but not really him.

	B:	Yeah, I want to say, was it Dr. Samuel Staffer? A group of us had taken his class and I think the conversation came up then. We started to have conversations about him and his role in desegregating UF Law School. You know I think man this is where…shoot man we just didn’t take for granted the ability to—or maybe we did take it for granted to the contrary—the ability to just talk about stuff and learn about stuff and ask questions in class like when certain names would be brought up. So, I can’t pinpoint a particular moment, again I want to say it was a conversation that emanated from Dr. Staffer’s class but once we learned about





him it was just a matter of just seeking out further information and I’m sure Google was existent back then, it was probably “Ask Jeeves” or something [Laughter] that we went to. We were also at the time we were a group of students as well like because of how we maneuvered campus it was nothing for us to hit up the law school library. Like we new exactly where the law school library was. and there was no hesitation to go to find out more information.

	S:	I want to ask you why did you decide to pursue a Ph.D. after college? Or how did that—

	B:	Yeah! So, I knew nothing about graduate school. So, Dr. Sharon Austin Wright— she’s still here—she’s a full professor in political science, she was really foundational in really mentoring me throughout the latter half of my undergraduate career into graduate school. And I had written a paper in her class on Black Conservative’s ideals, like social ideals and how they’re at odds with economic ideals, right? Which tend to be more liberal if we’re looking at the liberal conservative political paradigm. I remember she called me into her office to talk about the paper, she’s like, “Man you’re a good writer, you’re already thinking about some pretty complex stuff. I’m going to send you to a conference.” So, she sent me to a conference, a political science like a national conference, right? Like the kind of stuff, I go to right now to disseminate my research and she sent the Black Political Science Association group up there. It was me and like four or five other students. She rented us a minivan on behalf of the university, and we go up to this conference and we have this transformative experience.

Again, these are things that are all new to me and she started to talk to me about





graduate school after I attend that conference. I was like, “Yo, what the heck is graduate school?” [Laughter] I literally had no idea. She’s like, “That’s where you’ll go get your Master’s degree.” And I had known some students, some Black students on campus that were getting their Master’s degree so that made sense. But man, as I was studying for the LSAT I freaked out. Twenty-one years old, about to graduate from UF, I tried to do everything possible to extend my stint at UF. ‘Cause I just wasn’t ready for the world man and truthfully man, who is at twenty-one, twenty-two years old? Like our society is so accelerated yo, like I went and taught in Spain and the people are traveling the world, they’re learning about themselves before they go spend money on college and here I am twenty- one years old and I just freaked out man, I freaked out. So, I applied to a teaching position at Evans High School back in Orlando, I moved to Orlando, and I started my Master’s degree in Education. I didn’t do my Master’s degree in Education because I had a real interest in getting a Ph.D. in education, I wanted to be a better teacher to my students. Most of it was being paid for by the school district. So, I was like, “Man let me take advantage of this opportunity and get this Master’s degree while I’m teaching, and I’ll have this teaching certification as well at the completion of my Master’s degree.” But even after I completed my Master’s degree, I had applied for another Master’s in Latin American Studies. I had applied at UF, FIU, can’t remember where else. I had gotten into all of those Master’s programs in Latin American Studies because I’ve always had an interest in Afro-Latinidad and studying like Black social movements in Latin America and Blackness in Latin America more generally. But I had a professor in





my Master’s program who was like “You should really consider a Ph.D.” then that was like the time where I kind of knew more about the game and that all she wrote man. I applied and started my Ph.D. at Columbia University in New York City in 2009 but when my wife lost her job this was middle of that recession in Obama’s first year of the presidency man, once my wife lost her job up in New York City we couldn’t afford that sixteen hundred dollar rent so I moved back to Florida and finished my Ph.D. at UCF.

	S:	How was it doing your Master’s and teaching at the same time? How was that for you?

	B:	Aw man it was challenging but rewarding at the same time because I had the opportunity to gear my assignments like my writing towards what I was teaching. So, a lot of it was relational, I would say it was probably the first learning experience that I had at the higher education level that felt more immediate, right? Like I felt like there was some sort of immediate application or some way for me to make sense of like for example me reading Paulo Freire and like really trying to apply Paulo Freire’s notions of critical pedagogy to my teachings. Still, not really understanding what the hell Paulo Freire’s saying though, right? But at least giving it a shot, I had this opportunity to be engaged as a professional in a more immediate context, so it was rewarding in that sense. In some ways it felt more transactional and I wasn’t ready for that though. So, I’m teaching at Evans High School and Pine Hills in Orlando and I’m going to UCF at night, so two different worlds, right? So, two different sides of town in Orlando and there was just such a disconnect there yo like I didn’t feel a part of the UCF community the





way that I felt a part of the UF community. It just felt like yeah transactional in some ways. I’m gonna get this degree with no ties to the university, it’s hard to explain.

	S:	I guess I wanna talk about how you got into your research, I know you said earlier that it was part of your community and your godmother was Afro-Latinx, like was there more to it?

	B:	Yeah, you know what cemented my current line of research was the teaching experience so the year that I studied at…sorry the year that I studied at Teachers College, Columbia that I did my Ph.D. up there, that one year of course work, I was teaching full time in the Bronx. Even working in Orlando, a lot of my students were Afro-Dominican, Afro Boricua and so that cemented everything for me, that was it, like was a wrap man after teaching a really significant and large students of Afro-Latinx heritage man and seeing what they went through as well in some of these schools like having to navigate that ethnoracial dissonance of literally reading Black, right? Phenotypically but having the Latinx culture, the language, the food, right? And so on, it positioned them in the margins in schools and you would often see it and I would talk to the students and I’m so thankful that I had some sort of understand of this either from an upbringing as well as from my university education to be able to say like I’m observing a group of students being marginalized. You sit down with them and you invited them into the room during lunch just to talk with them just to see what’s going on, why do you think these things are happening and cultivate a community amongst each other and those are like one of those things that really cemented my interest in this





research, was being a teacher in these schools. I’ll even give you some concrete examples, my last couple years teaching I was teaching at Stonewall Jackson Middle School. I hate the name of the school, obviously Confederate General.

This school was southeast Orlando, I lived for a couple years in southeast Orlando for a couple years now that I think about it my last five to six years were spent in southeast Orlando before the professor but anyways the school is majority Latinx and my principal was like, “Yo Busey you’re going to teach the eighth grade sheltered ESOL history classes and I had two sections man.

Nobody wanted to teach these kids! Nobody! Nobody wanted to teach the kids. Most of the students were from either Puerto Rico, DR, Colombia, Mexico, Honduras, and in my last year I had one kid from Vietnam and one girl from Iraq, so that was like [Laughter] interesting mix but man I had some Afro-Latinos students in those classes. They were literally like called the kids “Carbon, bono, cafre” Like the language was overt, it was open, and it was racist, and they would consistently like pick on the kids, nag on the kids. This was eighth grade; you know middle schoolers are harsh man. They’re harsher [Laughter] just because the developmental period they were going through but man they would really make some like racists comments to these kids that you could see was damaging. You know these Afro-Latino students like psych man and because it was sheltered instructions, they didn’t have the privilege of going with another group of students you know for math class, they travelled class to class with each other. Math, English, Reading, Science, Social Studies, P.E., they were always with each other and so those comments and those…you know that racism man





was lived out every day and that especially man really kind of did it for me in terms of like I need to be dedicating my research towards it.

	S:	That’s cool! I feel like even now there’s not much talk about Afro-Latinx experience or anything like that. I feel since Black Lives Matters, there’s more but it’s still lacking.

	B:	Yeah, yeah it is lacking, especially in education man. We know very little about the Afro-Latinx experience in K-12 schools. There are a couple of researchers that are doing at the higher education level but still that research is few. It’s groundbreaking! We’re talking about 2017, right? Once of the first articles published on Afro-Latinx college going students and how their school [inaudible 01:00:29] Latinx fraternity and sororities they walk into…the research shows maybe not like La Casita but like an Institute of Hispanic-Culture, they’re immediate directed to the Black institute and they’re like, “I’m Latinx tambien!” But yeah man there’s not a lot of work being done out there at all.

	S:	Yeah, I guess want to ask about Ethnic Studies, how do you see Black Studies, African Americans Studies, Latinx Studies, all those studies, how do you see them progressing in the United States? Or how do you…

	B:	Yeah man, unfortunately man I don’t see it progressing. Lorgia Garcia Pena, she is at Harvard—I don’t know if she’s moving because she didn’t get tenure man at Harvard. And I think that’s a testament, like how do you write one of the most groundbreaking books on Afro-Dominicans since like 2000 and you not get tenure at Harvard, it’s crazy. But she talks a lot about this, right? Universities are divesting from Ethnic Studies, you look at what happened up at Yale University,





was it last year or was it two years ago? Where you had like a whole department professors be like, “Yo, we’re resigning cause you’re divesting from Ethnic Studies, you’re refusing to give Ethnic Studies professors tenure and promotions.” So, I think in many ways we’re seeing is not just the monetary divestment which that matters. That’s key in supporting Doc students, hiring new faculty and just providing overall support for students and faculty but we’re also seeing the refusal to grow Ethnic Studies where needed. So I look at places like the University of Florida, yo and I’m like how? How in the hell does UF not have a Latinx Studies program? We’re in Florida man! You got to be kidding me. Like how do we not have a Latinx Studies program in Florida? How do we not have a Black Studies Program in Florida? That, that just blows my mind man but that’s intentional and then when I see things like this new Racial Justice Initiative that the president put out, I’m going to dedicate four hundred thousand dollars to research on the Black student experience at UF and faculty and students, y’all go compete for it. Nah man take that four hundred thousand dollars and dedicate it to building an Ethnic Studies program right now! [Laughter] like right now! But the universities are able to save face and pretend that they’re committed to Black Studies and Ethnic Studies without ever supporting the development of the program, so they put out these little initiatives like this and you know that kind of appeases the general mass but there’s a group of people who are able to read through it and say “Why is the African American Studies Program, which has been around for fifty years, still just a program?” Like that’s nuts man. And so, what I think we’re seeing nation wide for the programs that do have Ethnic





Studies is again divestment from Ethnic Studies but then at places like UF, UGA, all of these programs that should have a Black Studies, a Latinx Studies, an Indigenous Studies, Asian American Studies, like universities are just refusing to invest in it man. They’re just absolutely refusing to invest in it.

	S:	Yeah, I’ve kind of gotten that from what I’ve done so far. [Laughter]



	B:	Yeah, yo it’s ridiculous man it’s like man we should be doing more, yo. We really should man.

	S:	So, what do you think needs to happen for UF to make Ethnic Studies? And I guess a follow up question to that would be, how would Ethnic Studies be implemented all across Florida?

	B:	Yeah, yeah, the thing about UF in general man, UF is the good ole boys’ school of the state. [Laughter] Let’s just put it out there, it is yo. Like there’s so much political power concentrated both within this university and in association with the university when you consider the alumni base, senators, congressmen and so on and I think that’s part of the reason we’re not seeing Ethnic Studies is because it’s good ole boy university and good ole boy system is not interested in having a program of study that questions—because this is the thing about Ethnic Studies, Ethnic Studies is not just about providing the degree programming that provides students, especially Black and Latinx and Indigenous and Asian American students to learn about themselves but what Ethnic Studies really does man, is it questions the status quo. Ethnic Studies is the opportunity for students to engage in conversations about power, hierarchy, capitalism, class, gender oppression, homophobia and do so from the lens of ethnic and racialized groups in the U.S.,





right? That’s Ethnic Studies! Now you tell me what university wants to cultivate [Laughter], right? That type of learning. What university wants students to begin to ask critical questions about capitalism and race? Not just in society but at the university. What would it mean if your football team—which a lot of them major in African American Studies, start to take these classes with a more Ethnic Studies lens and they start to ask questions about this play for free system that they’re involved in; universities don’t want that man. Universities for the most part, they’re not interested in cultivating that type of critical interrogation on their campuses and especially this good ole boy system. Definitely don’t want that because to have Ethnic Studies would mean that you have a literal department or college on campus who when Donald Trump Jr. is paid fifty thousand dollars to come speak at the University of Florida, you’re going to have a campus entity, right? That’s going to cultivate the resistance and more than the resistance itself but the knowledge to fund that resistance to it. These good ole boys ain’t interested in that man. Sorry if that seems cynical!

	S:	No, no it doesn’t! B:	[Laughter]

	S:	It realistic, yeah, I’ve kind of gotten that so far from like what I’ve read and what I’ve looked into, but you can always be hopeful sometimes.

	B:	Yeah, yeah, I try to be hopeful, man that’s why we wake up every day and still do it, right?

	S:	Yeah.





	B:	You know I do think we are at a moment now cause when you look at the birth of Ethnic Studies and the university, 1968 post-assassination of King, right? So, we have these moments where things kind of crystalize, but we have all these stuff leading up to it, right? I think we’re at a similar moment now, so Ethnic Studies was born out of the crucible of the fire of those moments. It was students like Angela Davis, right? Who’s now the foremost leader in terms of thinking about campus activism and Black activism and class and Marxism and so on. You had that group of youth, faculty at the time who were wiling to see it through, I think we’re at a similar moment.

	S:	You think it can be done at UF? B:	It can be done! I do.

	S:	Okay.



	B:	I think it can be done! We have a critical mass of scholars here of Black and Latinx faculty, we’re growing here. We’re having the conversations, now it’s the matter if the university will systemically eliminate us from this space. So, we are starting to see that Black and Latinx faculty here not getting tenure or promoted which means we got to pack ourselves and find somewhere else to go and those are the types of things that kind of squeeze us out and kind of quash the momentum and the motivations to make these things happen and then you replace us with a new crop of scholars who come in and they’re kind of in the same rat wheel, right? But what has to happen is you can’t let go of scholars like Ibram Kendi for example. Say what you want about his work and I know certain critiques exist, but he was here at UF doing the work! As an institution, you have





to cultivate spaces around the intellectuals you have here on campus and make it happen but when you look at how this university in particular, the disciplines, the majors that are offered and how they’re carved out is very archaic man, very archaic. It’s archaic because it feeds the good ole boy system. We gotta be a little more forward thinking here.

	S:	I guess I want to ask a couple more questions, one is your time here like as a student and a faculty, has there been any pressing issues that directly impacted the minority community that you could think of? Whether it be at UF or the greater country.

	B:	Oh, the greater country? Where do we start [Laughter]? Again, when I was a student here man, it not to say these things weren’t happening but we were just here at a different time man like I’m not that old. We had cellphones but we didn’t have smartphones. We had the Motorola Razors or something [Laughter]. And so, the way that knowledge is now produced and disseminated, it just didn’t exist at the pace that it is now. The way that information is disseminated I want to say we had Facebook my junior, senior year? Like when it started you had to have a university email account in order to have a Facebook account and so Facebook was just college going youth but we were posting pictures of partying, we weren’t talking about events and certain incidents that may have happened and so again, these things were happening around us but I think because of ways in which we were able to deal with it—the talking through, being community with each other we weren’t left to metabolize and process these things by ourselves. I think this is one of the things that is facing our current group of students at UF in terms of





race. It’s that the students here are left to process a lot of these things by themselves or in the smaller community. So again, I’ll just reference for example when Donald Trump Jr. comes to campus, the Latinx students in my class were pissed! Rightfully so, I’m pissed and we’re dedicating class time to talk about it. Like a significant chunk of class time to talk about it and when your White student colleagues are dismissive of your concerns even your liberal White peers are dismissive of your concerns and you don’t have the space to process that anger, to process those emotions and maybe in just thirty minutes just find a place to laugh with a friend, that stuff eats at you man. It eats at you and I’m seeing it with our students man when I sit down to talk with Black and Latinx undergraduate students. You’re not only processing the daily microaggressions on campus, but we’re now just feed images and videos of Black death, of Latinx death, of dispossession, of removal, of displacement on a daily basis. And so, processing that is harder to do and when you don’t have the support systems on campus, and you don’t have enough Black and Latinx faculty and staff to provide some sort of cushion for the students to fall on is even unhealthier. This is what, at least from my view, this is what I’m currently seeing impact our minoritized students at UF now in terms of race. How do you process everything going on out here? Dealing with it in a classroom of microaggressions with no cushion to fall on, it’s tough yo. It’s tough…

	S:	You said because there’s a lack of Black and Latinx professors, faculty that students aren’t able to talk about it, but does that create a double duty for you and other Black and Latinx professors?





	B:	Oh yeah! Oh yeah! So, there’s a phrase, they call it the color tax, right? [Laughter] That’s what they call it, whereas being a faculty or staff member of color you are always asked to do more, and I always have to remind people, speaking for myself and the many Black and Latinx people that I’m close to we don’t mind doing it. For many of us, that’s what we’re here for. The issue becomes when the university fails to recognize this. When our department chairs and our Deans fail to recognize the extra service, we are asked to do which might mean, you know what for two years I don’t produce a million-dollar grant for the university because I’m consistently and constantly advising Black and Latinx students through the racial macro and microaggressions that they’re both seeing and experiencing. Yo like universities fail to understand that and fully account for that and that’s again one of the ways in which we systemically get pushed out of the university.

	S:	So, I guess one of my last two questions because you’re a student who’s experienced all of life at UF vibe you could say, what message could you give to future generation of minority students coming to UF?

	B:	Man, my biggest piece of advice would be…try your hardest to cultivate the community on your own. Don’t wait for the space to be created because it’s not going to be created, [Laughter] probably not going to be created, I’ll try not to be nihilistic. Aw man I almost hate to say it ‘cause I start to sound like my grandparents and my mama, right? But I think one of the beauties of not having smart phones and like these things and Air pods that I see now, is we were forced to talk to each other! So if I saw another Black or Latinx individual in class,





I’m going to find you after class yo and there’s no excuse not to and if I choose not to more than likely at some point before the end of the semester we’re going to find ourselves in the same space, the IBC, La Casita, a probate show, a party, you’re going to call me out, “Yeah I saw you in class, you didn’t say nothing”, [Laughter] right? Kind of thing, so I do think that was a benefit to being at UF during the time in which we didn’t have these technologies at our disposal to just I don’t know kind of pretend as if other people aren’t there. And so, my biggest piece of advice would be cultivate the community and space in your own when you see that person, even if when you see that person reach out. Set up that network, set up the connection, exchange phone numbers. Don’t add on Facebook. Don’t add on Twitter or follow-on Twitter, literally exchange numbers [Laughter] and talk. I think that would be one of my biggest pieces of advice.

Second piece of advice would be seek out the faculty and staff who could support because a lot of the times too for faculty and staff if you’re not in our classes, sometimes we just don’t know you’re here. Regardless of whatever organization we may mentor, where we may guest speak or so on, sometimes we just don’t know that you’re here. This university is massive! My office is in the college of Ed, I am literally across the street from the main part of campus and so when I often meet people, they’re like, “Damn we didn’t know you were here!” I’m like, “Shoot I didn’t know you were here either.” I’m over here off of thirteenth by Norman Hall by sorority row. Seek out the faculty and staff as well, I would say that would be my second piece of advice. One, cultivate community and don’t be





afraid to say hey to the unknown person and second, seek out those who could support you.

	S:	That’s really all the questions I had, is there anything else you wanted to mention before we finished?

	B:	Aw man I felt like I just told you my whole life story! S:	[Laughter]

	B:	We didn’t even meet officially. S:	[Laughter] Yeah!

	B:	It was a pleasure though! S:	No, appreciate it thank you!

	B:	Absolutely, man! Absolutely, Omar! [End of interview]





	Transcribed by	Omar Sanchez, January 12, 2021 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, May 3, 2021 Final edited by:	Sandra Romero, May 5, 2021