AAHP 274; Lewis; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 274 Vendarae Lewis African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on July 27, 2012

22 minutes | 18 pages



Abstract: Vendarae Lewis, born in 1956, was from Bartow, Florida, and attended Union Academy, a Black school, the year before it closed down. She also talks about her family life and how her mother’s beauty shop is still open in Bartow today under daughter. She went to Bartow Junior and Senior High, and attended Tennessee State for college. At Bartow High School, she found that the rules were much more lax than what she had experienced at Union Academy, and after integration, the Black students that were at the top in Union Academy found that they had to prove themselves even more to White students – which they did. In college, she joined Delta Sigma Theta, one of the largest Black sororities in the Nation, where she enjoyed their belief in public service and politics. Finally, she ends the interview with a discussion of what Bartow needs as a community – unity across racial, class, and economic lines.



[Keywords: Bartow; Fort White; Education]











































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 274

Interviewee: Vendarae Lewis Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: July 27, 2012



W:  This is Marna Weston for the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program at the Bartow Civic Center, at the Union Academy Reunion on July 27, 2012. I’m here with Ms. Lewis. Thank you very much Ms. Lewis for talking to me today.

L:   You’re welcome.



W:   Would you please state and spell your full name?



	L:	Vendarae Lewis spelled V-E-N-D-A-R-A-E, last name is Lewis, L-E-W-I-S. W:	And what class are you a member of for Union Academy?

	L:	Actually, I only attended Union Academy from seventh grade, the last year that Union Academy was in existence. So that would have been 1969.

	W:	What is your day and date of birth, please? L:	I was born May 1, 1956.

	W:	And who are your mother and father?



	L:	Sonia Walden-Washington, my mother. And Samuel Washington is my father.



	W:	And do you know where they came from and how they originally came to this area?

	L:	My mother was probably fifth generation Bartow, Polk County. My father, the second—actually he’s the first generation to be born here in this part of the world. Both his parents were born in South Carolina.

	W:	Could you tell me a little bit about his parents?



L:  His mother’s name was Maggie Harren-Washington. She was from Fairfax, South Carolina. And his father was Paul Washington from Richburg, South Carolina.





	W:	And do you know anything about their parents?



	L:	I don’t know the names—my grandfather’s name actually was Carter, apparently.



His stepfather—his mother remarried and some of the children just took the stepfather’s name, Carter, but—they took Washington, but they were actually Carters. I didn’t know that till I was grown. But I can’t think of the first names of his parents. My mother’s parents were James and Alberta Harren and both of them were born in Polk County, in Bartow.

	W:	Do you recall your mom and dad’s birthdays?



	L:	Yeah, my mother’s birthday is March 7, 1921. My dad’s birthday was April 8, 1907.

	W:	Do have brothers and sisters? L:	Yeah.

	W:	Could you list them from oldest to youngest, please?



	L:	I only have a brother and a sister from my father’s first marriages. My sister is still living. Her name is Celeste Washington-Crosby. She’s actually eight years younger than my mother. And she’s living here and she’s a retired educator. She lives here in Bartow. My brother, Booker T. Washington, died almost two years ago.

	W:	I’m very sorry for your loss.



	L:	They’re just about a year apart in age. So both of them were old enough to be like my, more or less relationshipwise, like uncle and aunt than brother and sister. My nieces and nephews, Mitt and Beverly, were more like my age so we were close.





	W:	Can you tell me about your immediate family? Your husband? If you have children?

	L:	I do. My husband’s name is Clifton Lewis. This is his second marriage. He has four children, two older girls from his first marriage and my son and my daughter he and I have together.

	W:	And what are their names?



	L:	Maya Lewis-Johnson and my son is Cameron Lewis.



	W:	And what are their birthdays and your husband’s too, if you can recall it?



	L:	My husband was born December 24, 1942. My daughter was born February 23, 1983 and my son was born November 19, 1986.

	W:	What was it like growing up at home? Describe your home life. Did you have chores? Were there things that your parents had you do? What was a typical day with your brother and your sister and your folks like at home?

	L:	Well, my brother and sister were both grown when I was born. My sister had a son who was already five years older when I was born. Her baby was about seven months older than I am. And they were both—like I said, I didn’t grow up with them. My brother either. His daughter—two girls, one was a year behind me and the other was two years younger. I grew up as an only child pretty much. I did have chores. I tell people—they’re arguing about whose week it is to wash dishes. I tell them, my week is every week. Every day is my day—

	W:	You’re doing them by yourself!



	L:	That’s right. That’s right. [Laughter] So I did have things that I had to do and my mother would just roll out a litany of things that I needed to—this is what you





need to do and expected it to be done. So even though people think that I was spoiled, I was blessed. I don’t think I was really spoiled.

	W:	What would some of those things be?



	L:	You had to make your bed. You had to clean up behind yourself, make sure the dishes were washed, make sure that you squeezed the lemons for the lemonade that my granddad had to have lemonade every day. Fresh squeezed until I went to college when we discovered Country Time. Take the garbage out; things that you had to do. Taught me how to cook—my mom taught me how to cook, how to bake. Stuff like that. She was a beautician, operated a beauty salon for fifty-two years. My daughter operates that beauty salon today.

	W:	What’s the name of that salon?



	L:	Today it’s called—I just had a brain freeze. [Laugher] Lord have mercy. I truly have had a brain freeze. Well anyway, my daughter operates the beauty salon. I can’t even think—Artistry by Maya is what she calls it, but it was the Sonia’s Beauty Chest for many, many, many, many years. My grandfather built it for my mother, and when she went up to FAMC and got homesick and came back, he built that beauty salon and she operated it for fifty-two years.

	W:	What is your earliest memory of education?



	L:	I remember going to what we call preschool now. Ms. Williams had a place up on Polk Street in West Bartow. And after that going to Union Academy in first grade. And then they built a new school, Gibbons Street Elementary, and I went there for two years. In the middle of my fourth grade year, they build a brand new elementary school in West Bartow and I left and came over there from fourth





through sixth grade. Then it was back to Union Academy for seventh grade, the last year of Union Academy. At that time is was junior-senior high. Then we went to Bartow Middle School—now it’s called Bartow Junior High School and then Bartow High School.

	W:	Do you remember the principal of Union Academy?



	L:	Absolutely. James Kevis. He was a phenomenal human being. Probably, one of the greatest educators, I think, probably in the state of Florida. And my Aunt Lorna.

	W:	Is he still with us?



	L:	No, he’s passed away.



	W:	Are there any teachers that you recall that had a really profound impact upon you as a person that came from Union Academy or anywhere in your educational history? But Union Academy in particular, if you recall.

	L:	Quite a few. In particular my seventh grade math teacher was Elcita Thomas— Levitia Thomas. She was quite an educator. My first grade teacher, Mrs. Jones, my history teachers. There are so many of them. One thing was James—you have to be an excellent teacher or you weren’t allowed to teach at Union Academy. He did not put up with anything other than the best. So there were a lot of people that just could not teach at UA because he wouldn’t allow it. If he wasn’t satisfied, you gotta go. So that was the way it was. He had some mixed reviews.





	W:	In finishing up your educational career, do you think that Union Academy gave you the foundation to go further and what is your educational history after the seventh grade at Union Academy?

	L:	I went to Bartow Junior and Senior High Schools as well on to Tennessee State where a got my Bachelor’s Degree.Yeah, definitely they had an impact upon me. The teachers were very encouraging. You never questioned that you would not finish high school or not go to college. It’s expected.

	W:	Did you think that there was more of a—what I’m finding from speaking to people about their experience with pre-integration Black high schools is that the custodians were involved. The nurses were involved. The family—people living in the neighborhood—

	L:	Cafeteria workers.



	W:	Could you tell a story about somebody who wasn’t a teacher that had an impact on you from Union Academy?

	L:	We had Yogi. A guy was one of the custodians we called Yogi. He was a really nice guy. Everybody felt like you had a place. You were a part of the school. The cafeteria workers would make everything from scratch. If you had hotdogs, the buns were made from scratch. No fast food, nothing like that. They took great pride in giving a balanced meal. Everybody was like a team.

	W:	What was it like going to Bartow High School?



	L:	Very, very different. [Laughter] The first time—I never knew—you didn’t chew gum at UA. You didn’t smoke in the bathrooms at UA. Some things, they didn’t play that. We got over there and in a way we thought we’d died and gone to





heaven because it was so much more lax than what we were used to. But at the same time, we realized that the caring was not there, the understanding of who you were. And the expectations were different, a lot lower. They still would see you and encourage you even after they had integrated. Those teachers were still pushing you on. They’d take you to the side and say, “You know better.” No. No. I can remember some people who were honor society members and once they integrated all of a sudden, they didn’t want to know whether you really belonged in honor society. It was those years at the Black school they were on the top. You gotta prove yourself all over again. They did. We did and we took pride in it.

	W:	Would you describe and say that there were racial tensions or how would you discuss it?

	L:	Absolutely. They were very difficult times, heated confrontations, food fights. I can remember rednecks riding around with gun racks and threatening to shoot people. It was a mess. Some things were a mess, but we made it through.

	W:	What was the motto both at Union Academy and at Bartow?



	L:	Hour of the champions, they took that from us. That was Union Academy’s motto and they used it. Bartow High School used it.

	W:	Do you think that that was intended as a way to unify the communities? You said they took it. Describe the difference—

	L:	They would never say that they did because they would count what happened [Laughter]. But they did.

	W:	Did you have a relationship with the principal at Bartow?





	L:	Yeah, somewhat. You respected him, to a certain degree. Not to say I liked him.



He was alright.



	W:	What was that principal’s name? L:	Mr. Bryant.

	W:	Instead of going to FAMU or Bethune, you leave Bartow High School and go to Tennessee State, all the way to Nashville. Why Tennessee State? And was it important for you to go there and why?

	L:	I wanted to go to an HBCU. It was about the size of a school that I thought I’d enjoy and I wanted there to be something going on in the community, in the city as well as on the campus. There were so many different schools in Nashville. It afforded me a lot of diversity. I thought I was going into the mountains. I didn’t realize that it was in the eastern part of the county, of the state. It’s hilly in Nashville, but not mountainous. It still was pretty.

W:  What were your early times at Tennessee State University like? Something that you remember from going there that maybe was different than Bartow? The first time that you realized wow, I’m really not in Florida anymore?

	L:	Snow in October. [Laughter] I’d never seen snow. It was good to not have to think about whether we gonna have a Black homecoming queen or we not gonna have a Black this or that. The question isn’t any of the other ones. It’s who’s it gonna be? It was a relief in a way. I was tired of the struggle at that point. I needed a reprieve from all of that. It afforded me that.

	W:	And you still had the Classic with FAMU anyway?





	L:	At the time it wasn’t the Classic. We didn’t. We played FAMU and that was one of our biggest rivals but they didn’t start the Classic until later. We played them home to home before that. Now they’ve gone back to their- they’ve always been big rivals.

	W:	Were you involved in any extracurricular at Bartow High School or was it more just business, get the books and get out of there?

	L:	No, no, we were involved in all that special—I sang in chorus, student government. I was a Girls State Representative, pep club, whatever. I had fun.

	W:	Girls State is an outstanding opportunity for young people. Could you talk about your Girls State experience and describe it?

	L:	Well I ran for city commissioner and then county commissioner and then became a Supreme Court justice. It was fun.

	W:	Do you still have any connections with the people that you met at Girls State?



	L:	No, I don’t. The lady that recommended me is passed away. She was from Lake Wells. She was very active in the American Legion Auxiliary-

	W:	What was her name?



	L:	Alicia Austin. She passed away. Whenever I would see her—in fact, she and my mother would, in fact, see each other back in the day. So she married her husband and was very active in the county. Her and her brother were just over here. I knew them and nieces and nephews. I knew her quite well. She was nice. Good experience.

	W:	What were your experiences and activities at Tennessee State?





	L:	Student government. I pledged Delta. I sang in the chorus. It’s kind of similar to the kinds of things that I did in school.

	W:	Now I know what you’re talking about when you say Delta. Could you explain about Red and White? What organization are you talking about for people that might not understand the context?

	L:	Delta Sigma Theta, a public service organization. One of the—probably the largest African-American sorority in the world. I pledged that organization when I was at Tennessee State.

	W:	Why that organization and are you still involved and to what extent?



	L:	It suited me. In fact, they were politically active. And I just liked the philosophy they espoused. I’m not currently active. I support whatever I can support. I just talked to one of my sorority sisters here today. Got some things we’re gonna be doing next month that she wants me to be involved with. So I still believe in public service and I tell them I was a Delta because of my belief in public service. I didn’t become involved in public service because I became a Delta. So that’s kind of the attraction in a way.

	W:	What is your definition of leadership?



	L:	The ability to influence people to get things done. That’s pretty much it.



	W:	What part of Union Academy or Bartow High or Tennessee State and Girls State—what parts of all those experiences have in helping you build your definition of leadership programs. Did that have nothing to do with it? Was it something else?





	L:	I know, I totally believe in leaders of the world. I don’t know if had to do with certain people cultivating me in all of those different areas and traditions.

	W:	What are your activities now? Are you involved in the church or a civic organization or what do you do to fill your time and improve your community?

	L:	Well, I am involved in the church and I cut back on a lot of my activities. My mother is ninety-one years old. She has Alzheimer’s. I’m a caregiver and that takes up most of my spare time away from work. And I have an eight-month-old grandbaby and that’s the love of my life. So they go with us sometimes and that takes up a lot of my time. So a lot of all that tends to [inaudible 18:50]

	W:	What is your church?



	L:	First Providence Missionary Baptist Church.



	W:	And how long have you been associated with that church?



	L:	I was baptized there when I was six years old and after I came back to Florida, I reconnected with it.

	W:	Why is the church important to you?



L:  Because I was raised in it. I was brought up. And later on when it—It became a personal thing for me. I just believe in—you gotta get together with like-minded believers. You making me miss my show.

	W:	We’re gonna let you go in just a second. [Laughter] What do you think Bartow needs the most, if you were in charge of making all the changes as to your community? What would they be?

	L:	That would take about a year to say. [Laughter] W:	Well, just one thing then.





L:  Unity. Unity across racial lines, across class, across economic but that’s just the world in general.

W:  Well, I couldn’t let you go without asking about Barack Obama, his election in 2008 and his reelection attempt in 2012. So without being too specific, I’ll just throw it to you. Obama, what are your thoughts?

L:   Four more years. Couldn’t be prouder.



W:   Were you surprised that he won the first time?



	L:	Absolutely. I didn’t think that he would even get the nomination, let alone win. So the guards are lifted.

	W:	Well, Ms. Lewis, Vendarae Lewis, it’s been a pleasure to speak with you. So on behalf to the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program, to keep you from missing this show, I wanna give you thanks for this opportunity to speak with you at this Union Academy Reunion and give you final privilege. I’m not gonna say anything else. If you any thoughts about anything, whatever they might be, share those at this time and we can finish and complete the interview.

	L:	I just want to invite you and that it’s nice meeting you and I appreciate the opportunity to talk with you. And I invite you to come back and I want you to get together with my husband. You might get a word in edgewise. I can’t promise that but you’ll get to be with a lot of people here about it.

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Kamal Gray, October, 2012 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, June 28, 2017





	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 22, 2019