AAHP 627; Green; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 627 Kenneth Green 10-01-2008 Interviewed by Marna Weston on October 1, 2008 145 minutes | 65 pages



Abstract: In this interview, agriculture student Marna Weston interviews University of Florida Building Services staff member Kenneth Green. Green begins with an in-depth recollection of his family history on both his mother and father’s sides. Then, Green recalls his childhood in Chicago with several siblings. He remembers attending several different Catholic schools in the Chicago area, where he developed a lifelong love for learning. Green recalls that himself and his two brothers all joined the Armed Forces after graduating high school, however, Green explains that he was honorably discharged due to a congenital heart defect. He recalls several tragic murders in his family, including the death of an uncle to police violence, the death of a stepson to gang conflicts, and the murder of his uncle by his aunt. Although he is a Catholic, Green explains he has been exposed to Voodoo and Roots spiritual practices through other members of the Black community. Green reveals some of what he learned about these spiritual practices while living in South Carolina. Green then recalls his experiences as an employee with Building Services for the University of Florida, comparing it to his work as a janitor in Chicago. Green concludes by describing his love for animals, particularly snakes





Keywords: [Gainesville, Florida, Black community, family history, Chicago, military, Catholic, Voodoo, spiritualism]



AAHP 627

Interviewee: Kenneth Green Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: October 1, 2008

	W:	Thank you very much for agreeing to do this interview. This is Marna Weston with the Sam Proctor Oral History Project on the campus of the University of Florida at the Physical Plant Division. It’s 5:20 in the afternoon on October 1, 2008. I am here doing an interview with Mr. Kenneth Jerome Green. Mr. Green, thank you very much for agreeing to do the interview.

	G:	You’re welcome.



	W:	Would you please spell your full name?



	G:	Kenneth, K-E-N-N-E-T-H, Jerome, J-E-R-O-M-E, Green, G-R-E-E-N.



	W:	Thank you. And when were you born, Mr. Green? G:	I was born June 4, 1945.

	W:	June 4, 1945, wow, so two days before the year anniversary of D-Day. G:	Yeah.

	W:	Where were you born, sir?



	G:	I was born in Chicago. Well, I guess I’d have to say Cook County Hospital, I don’t remember the name of the hospital. I think it’s Lion Inn but I’m not sure.

	W:	Would there be a difference between Lion Inn and Cook County?



	G:	Yeah, Cook County is the main hospital for the general population, you might as well say Cook County because I think that’s on my—I was born in Lion Inn Hospital, a women’s hospital where women go, but on my birth certificate, it says Cook County, I believe. I’m not sure.

	W:	Okay, who are your parents?



	G:	My mother’s name is Junah D., my father’s name is John W. Green, Junior. W:	Okay, and where was your mother born?





	G:	My mother and my father were both born in Chicago, Illinois 5th and 19th Street, across the street from each other.

	W:	Wow, so they lived across the street.



	G:	They lived across the street from each other, but my mother’s family is Catholic, my father’s family is not. So, my mother went to Catholic school and my father went to public school. My mother went to Saint Elizabeth High School, which was an all-girls Catholic school. My father went to Ingram High School. So they lived across the street from each other, they grew up in the same neighborhood, got married, had four kids, and I’m the oldest of four.

	W:	The oldest of four”? Could you tell me about your other brothers and sisters?



	G:	I got two brothers and a sister. My brother under me, his name is John Green III he graduated from Semia, it’s a trade school, I guess. My other brother, his name is James Edward Green, he graduated from Delisals Catholic High School. And my sister, her name is Margert Green, well, Casey—she graduated from a Catholic high school on the north side of Chicago. Now, she’s the only one out of the four of us that got a scholarship. She got a scholarship to Florida A&M, that’s where she met her husband at. Now, my brother Johnny, under me, he’s about a year and a half younger than me, when he graduated from Semia he went elsewhere during the Vietnam area. He went in the Army, because they tried to get him before he graduated and all the teachers got together, had a waiver, and then when he first graduated he went in the Army and he was—He went to Vietnam, he did like three tours. He was a Screaming Eagle. After he finished his tour, he transferred to Fort Campbell, Fort Bragg.





	W:	Fort Campbell, Kentucky? G:	Yeah.

	W:	And Fort Bragg— G:	North Carolina.

	W:	I was born in Fort Bragg. G:	Okay.

	W:	Manfarme Hospital.



	G:	Okay. When he got out the service, he worked at a bank in Chicago, he was the first Black to work at a bank in Chicago and the term was “nigger in the window.”

	W:	This is Johnny, your brother Johnny? G:	Yeah.

	W:	Okay.



	G:	And he knew a lot of—Johnny did a lot of things. He sells—he goes in different areas and gets old stuff and he has a thrift store, he sells thrift stuff. James—

	W:	Before you move on please, when was Johnny born? G:	I’m sorry, Johnny was born December 11, 1946.

	W:	Okay, now James please.



	G:	Okay James is my youngest brother, he was born October 1st, 1956. And he graduated from Edith Hill High School, and after he graduated from high school he worked at the post office for, I want to say, twenty-three years, and then he stopped working at the post office and now he works at a place that fixes boats. One of them places that they do handicap ramps and doors and stuff like that, he





works at one of them places, I don’t know the name of it. But he stays with my mother. And Magueritte her birthday is February 22nd, 1924.

	W:	My mother’s name is Margaret. G:	Margueritte.

	W:	Yeah, my mom is Margaret and your sister is Margueritte



G:  Yeah. Okay, so Margueritte, we all went to elementary school, Johnny was the only one that went to public school.

	W:	Which elementary school?



G:  We all went to—Well, me and Johnny started at Saint Andrews, which is on 61st and Michigan.

	W:	Now, is this a segregated Catholic school or did any--?



G:  I’m gonna say… I started fifth grade at Saint Martin, I’m gonna say that it might have been mixed, I’m not sure. But when we went to Saint Martin, Saint Martin was mixed.

	W:	Do you remember who the principal of your elementary school was?



	G:	Oh, no. At Saint Martin the principal was—No, unh-uh. I’m trying to think of it, I can’t even think of the name of the priest. Me and Johnny, we went to Saint Andrews and by the time I get to fifth grade, we went to Saint Martin which was on 9th and Princeton. It’s southwest, Saint Andrews is on the southeast side. I think when we went to Saint Andrews we were staying with my grandparents, my father’s parents, they live on 56th Street. I guess my mother and father moved, yeah, I guess they had moved fifth grade, I’m trying to think. Yeah, because what





happened was my mother’s father, they had this puzzle in the paper in Chicago called the Jackpot. You worked the crossword puzzle and you’d win money.

	W:	Now, which paper was that? Was that Chicago Defender? Were you reading the Chicago Times?

	G:	I think it was the Chicago Sun. W:	Chicago Sun?

	G:	I’m pretty sure it was, but he won enough money to buy an apartment building on the southwest side of Chicago. I’m trying to think, fifth grade, yeah, that had to be early [19]50s. But we moved before that, before that apartment building. We lived on 59th Block there and we started going to Saint Martin’s. All four of us went to Saint Martin’s, but me and Johnny started off at Saint Andrews.

	W:	Before you move on, let me ask you about your grandparents here. There are your dad’s parents and your mom’s parents—

	G:	Okay, my mom’s parents are Henry McNeil Black and Lucile Black.



	W:	Do you know approximately when they were married or either one of their years or dates of birth?

	G:	No, couldn’t tell you. [Laughter] But my mother’s father is from a place called Rome, Georgia.

	W:	Okay, I know Rome, Georgia.



	G:	My mother’s mother is from, I wanna say Daytona Beach, Florida as far as I know. But her parents, my grandmother’s parents, we also thought they was form Daytona Beach but come to find out they from Jacksonville and they moved. My





mother’s grandmother was a maid and my mother’s grandfather was a redcap, I guess that’s somebody working on the railroad.

	W:	Yes sir.



	G:	Now, my grandmother, my mother’s mother, she works at the rectory. A Rectory is where the priests live, the Catholic—

	W:	Yes sir.



	G:	At Saint Martin, she worked at the rectory for a long time until she retired. W:	Now what was her name?

	G:	Her name was Lucile Black, Lucile Claire Black.



	W:	Now what was her daughter, that’s your mother’s— G:	My mother’s mother, yeah.

	W:	Okay.



	G:	Lucile is my mother’s mother. My mother is the oldest of seven children. Now, my mother is—I wanna say she’s eighty-one. She’s nineteen years older than me.

	W:	And she’s still living with you?



	G:	Yeah, no she lives in Chicago, yeah. W:	That’s a blessing.

	G:	Yeah. My mother’s birthday is June 3rd, I think it’s 1927. W:	And you did tell me her name, didn’t you? Your mother’s? G:	Her name is Junah D. Green.

	W:	What is that first name again? G:	Junah, J-U-N-A-H.





	W:	J-U-N-A-H.



	G:	She was born in June. The A-H is for woman, so Junah. W:	That’s pretty. You don’t find names like that anymore.

	G:	No, you don’t. Okay, and I don’t think my grandmother had any sisters or brothers, as far as I know. My grandfather on my mother’s side, he had a sister and several cousins that lived in Chicago.

	W:	And what was his name?



	G:	His name is Henry McNeil Black. W:	Okay, and his wife?

	G:	Her name was Lucile Claire Black.



	W:	Now, you said your mother was the oldest of seven children, what are their names?

	G:	Okay, my mother is the oldest. And then, after, Loretta, her name was Loretta Miller. And I think she’s a year younger than my mother. She worked at the pool service for most of her adult life. And she had six kids. Her and her husband both worked at the post office.

W:  The post office in your neighborhood in Chicago? G:  The one downtown, I guess, downtown Chicago. W:  Okay.

G:  Because both of them are retired from the post office. W:  Do you know her husband’s name?





	G:	Yeah, his name was Henry Miller. And I think if he’s from—Yeah, he’s from Michigan. I don’t know up where in Michigan. Okay, then Aunite Shirley, her name is Shirley Roper.

	W:	Okay, and her husband?



G:  Her husband’s name was Ernest. Auntie Shirley, we called Ernest “Captain.” He’s from Flint, Michigan, okay. Then you have Uncle Bobby, his name was Henry McNeil Black. I’m not sure if it’s Junior or not.

W:   Named after the grandfather?



G:   Yeah, but we called him “Uncle Bobby.”



	W:	Okay and so he was your grandfather’s namesake, was he married?



	G:	Not as far as I know, he never was married. Then after him, I’m trying to think, okay, Uncle Charles, he wasn’t here, he never got married. He got killed when he was a teenager, when he was young.

	W:	What happened to him? G:	He got shot by the police. W:	Oh, really?

	G:	Across the street from our house.



W:   Do you remember when that happened?



	G:	That happened in 1955 I believe, before James was born. We was ten years old, we was all outside playing and we heard the police saying, “Stop, stop!” We said, “Hey, that looks like Uncle Charles there.” Then the police—Pow! Pow, pow, pow! Fell to the ground, they walked up to him—Pow, pow pow! He lived right down the street from us.





	W:	Was it the police just being arbitrary or did they suspect him of something or?



	G:	He said that he had robbed a store down the street from us. And when they had the investigation, my uncle had won money from him the night before.

	W:	From the policeman?



	G:	From the policeman. Because the policeman lived down the street. They all grew up together.

	W:	So this was a Black police officer? G:	Yeah.

	W:	Okay. Do you remember the policeman’s name?



	G:	No. And then, let me see, Auntie Ada, her name is Ada Miller. Her husband’s name was Andrew. I don’t know where—I guess he’s from Chicago. I don’t know where he’s from. And then Uncle Jimmy, he’s the baby. Uncle Jimmy, his name is James Edward Black.

	W:	Okay, and was he married?



	G:	He was married to Roberta Black. She’s from Chicago. Uncle Jimmy was born in 1907. Uncle Richie was born in 1937, so I’m thinking Uncle Jimmy was—He’s seven years older than me. Uncle Richie was six years younger; Uncle Jimmy was about seven years older than me. I was born in [19]45, so I guess he had to be born in—

	W:	[19]38?



	G:	[19]38, mmhm.



	W:	So he was your uncle but you kind of grew up together because you were only seven years apart?





	G:	Yeah, I guess so. He was late, but I looked at him as a big brother. Okay, now out of the seven kids, Uncle Charles got killed in [19]55, Uncle Jimmy died—I don’t remember when he died, cancer of the mouth. He was in the Army. And after him was Uncle Bobby, he died of cancer of the throat, he died maybe eight, nine, ten years after I’ve been here. It’s been a while; he’s been dead for a while. I’m trying to think, all three of the boys died and then Auntie Loretta died, [inaudible 17:53] for a while after. Auntie Loretta died next, I’m trying to think, my grandmother, we called her mother, mother and daddy, we called our grandparents. I’m trying to think if mother—I think mother died after—Yeah, I think mother died before Auntie Loretta. Between Auntie Loretta and Uncle Jimmy. Yeah, because mother was here when Uncle Jimmy got cancer and he was out in California with his second wife. And then all his sisters and his momma went to California, brought him back to the VA hospital in Chicago.

	That’s where he died. W:	How about Loretta?

	G:	Auntie Loretta, I don’t know where she died but I don’t think she died of cancer but I know she had one of her legs amputated. I don’t know if she was diabetic or not.

	W:	So your mother is eighty-one? G:	Eighty-one.

	W:	And still with you, and how about your father?



	G:	My father died—I think my father died in 2000. I know he died before New York got bombed. He died in—I’m pretty sure August or September of 2000. He had a





cyst on his lungs and they told him that they were going into it but when they took it out, cancer just grew from his lung or something and they went in and got it out and the mucus built up that was in there. Either a heart attack or cancer, I’m not sure. But that’s the reason why he ended up in the hospital, because he had a heart attack and he say he didn’t. He was—I think he was like seventy-five, seventy-six, when he died. Seventy-four maybe.

	W:	You have such specific memories of your mom’s side of the family, did you also you also know your dad’s brothers and sisters the same way?

	G:	Yes, just about. The only one that’s alive down, my Auntie Ada, she died about three years ago. She was the youngest girl of the seven kids. And she died of a—I think they call it sleep apnea—right? They give them a mask and everything.

	W:	Let me understand, your mother was one of seven and your dad was one of seven as well?

	G:	No, my mother was the oldest of seven, my father was the oldest of four. Yeah, both of them were the oldest in the family.

	W:	So Lily was the youngest? G:	Ada, A-D-A.

	W:	Oh no, I mean your dad’s sister?



	G:	My dad’s sister name was Marie. I ain’t got any other aunts. W:	Okay, I’ll let you tell the story. I’m trying to guess.

	G:	I’m still on my mother’s side. My mother’s mother, her name was Daisy Straugh, I don’t remember her husband’s name, that was her second husband. Well always called her Grandmother Daisy. And they were— I don’t know if they were





half Indian or what but some of my uncles and aunts call my grandmother by another name, they call her Chief Paddlefoot. My grandmother looks like—Have you ever seen the pictures of the Seminole Indians? That’s what she looks like, but he was short.

	W:	Did she ever talk about what native tribe she was from?



	G:	No. Unh-uh, no. Oh, wait a minute, hold up. She might have had brothers. I remember uncles that was either— I guess it had to be on her side, because my mother had an uncle, that was Uncle Leon, they say in about 6’7, but I don’t know that much about him. I only remember his name, you know? Now, of my mother’s family, just my mother and her, Auntie Shirley. Auntie Shirley was married to Ernest Roper, and they had eighteen kids. Auntie Loretta and Uncle Henry, they had six kids. Uncle Bobby, he didn’t have no kids. I don’t know, he spent a lot of his life in jail. There was a guy that used to come around he said was his son, but we don’t know for real. Uncle Charles didn’t have no kids. Uncle Jimmy had—he was married once. But he had kids by—Okay the first wife, his wife, he had three girls and two boys. He wasn’t married the second time, but he had kids by his first cousin’s daughter.

	W:	And what was her name?



	G:	Her name was Pamela Gardner. W:	Okay.

	G:	They’re from California, but they’re all born and raised in Chicago. W:	And the first wife’s name?

	G:	First wife’s name was Roberta Black. She’s also from Chicago.





	W:	What was the name of the young man who said he was Bobby’s son? G:	Oh, Bobby.

	W:	His name was Bobby as well?



	G:	We don’t know, Uncle Bobby was a—how do you put it in a nice way? Everyone has one in they family. He was a homosexual, I guess you would call it like that. Everybody had doubts, he spent most of his life in jail until he got—he spent a lot of time in jail. And once he got out, he worked at Lem’s Barbeque out there in a barbeque house in Chicago.

	W:	Was that a famous barbeque house? G:	Yes.

	W:	Lamberts?



	G:	Lem, L-E-M. Okay, on 59th and State right down the street from where all of them grew up at. Okay, Uncle Jimmy was married to Pam, they had something like three girls and a boy, I’m pretty sure. Pam’s father was named Junior Gardener. Junior Gardener was my mother’s first cousin. Okay, Junior’s daughter Pam was— I guess my Uncle’s second cousin, but they got together and had kids.

Now, let’s see. Junior’s daughter’s mother was named Gertie, that’s my mother’s father’s sister. Her name’s Gertrude Black, I guess. But she married a Gardener so I don’t know where the Gardeners are from but I know all of them are from Chicago. And Junior was—I don’t even know if Junior had any brothers or sisters, I don’t think he did. But he was an undercover policeman for a long time in Chicago. Okay, now my father’s side of the family. Okay, my father is named John W. Green Jr., he was born April 4th, 1926. He was born in Chicago, Illinois,





as my mother too, he was born in Cook County Hospital, she was too. So they went to Englewood. I don’t remember what elementary school he went to, but they went to Englewood High School. He went in the Navy for—I’m thinking, I don’t think he finished out. He was one of those Chicago folks that do everything. He went in there threatening people so he didn’t stay there long. They got married, I want to say August of [19]45, after I was born.

	W:	Do you know where they got married?



	G:	They got married in Chicago. I don’t know where in Chicago, but I know they got married in Chicago. My father was the oldest of four. Okay, my father’s parents were John W. Green Sr. and Margueritte Temple Green. Now, my father, his brother under him was James Green, but they called him Poppie for short, I don’t know what it means.

	W:	Poppie?



	G:	Poppie, P-O-P-P-I-E. Okay, and Marie Graham, that’s my aunt. And Richard Green, which is my uncle. I don’t know when my uncle was born. My youngest uncle was born in February, but I don’t remember what date. He was born in 1937, I know. No, I think he was six years older than me so it had to be in [19]39. Oh, he might be older than that. Anyway, my father’s youngest brother Richard is seven years older than me and my mother’s youngest brother is eight years older than me, so they was like two years apart.

	W:	Were Poppie, Marie, or Richard married?



	G:	Yeah. Uncle Poppie was married to—I don’t remember the lady’s name, offhand I don’t know her name but I know she was a guard at one of the state prisons.





	W:	A women’s prison or a man’s prison?



	G:	I don’t think it was a man’s prison. I don’t know, I don’t talk about it to nobody but she looks like the Tasmanian Devil. [Laughter] She’s big, she’s tall, she has a beard, mustache. I can’t think of her name but she was a nice lady, but looking at her, you know, she used to beat him up all the time. Okay, Marie, that’s my father’s sister, Marie Graham, her husband was named Henry also. I can’t think of where the Grahams are from. I guess he’s from Chicago. Let’s see, Uncle Henry worked at the post office also. Yeah, he worked at the post office. Marie, my aunt, she works at made wood at a—I’m trying to think, a Maywood—some type of hospital there. It’s a government hospital, I guess.

	W:	Maywood is a section of Chicago?



	G:	Maywood was a suburb of Chicago, but they lived in the projects though. They lived in the projects. Marie was close to me, that’s my father’s sister. And they had six kids. Nadine, Dorothy, Leonard, Sal, they had four kids. Let me see, I know Nadine, Dorothy, Katrina, Leonard. Somebody else, Tony. Was it Tony? They had six kids, I believe. Pretty sure they had six kids. Okay, and Uncle Richard. Uncle Richard’s wife name Janet, they’re from Englewood. She’s from Chicago. She was a [inaudible 32:20] before she married. Uncle Richard and Janet, they had two kids, Janelle and Richard Junior. Richard Junior died about—well, he’s been dead a while too. I keep forgetting I’ve been in Florida some eighteen years. I keep forgetting all of them died before I moved here. I think that’s all of them Auntie Loretta, Uncle Bobby, they died while I’ve been here. Okay, now my father’s father, we don’t really, we kind of find out and sort





out a lot of things. He told me he had a brother; I know he had a sister that was at least twenty years older than him. He said he had a brother that was twenty years older than him, that was working baggage in Charleston. His sister, her name was Patty, she’s buried in John’s Island, South Carolina. Okay, my grandfather was born in Grayville, Florida, 1889. In 1903, his mother died and his father, which his father’s name was Sam Green, his father took him and his sister to live in Chelsea, South Carolina. And took him and his sister to [inaudible 34:08]. And their sister went to stay with their father’s sister when she stayed in Charleston, that’s where he grew up at. My grandfather has a whole bunch of nieces and nephews in New York and even down here. I don’t know none of them. My Uncle Poppie, James, he do a lot of them, and my Uncle Richard, they know a lot of them because they’ve been to Florida. The first time I came to Florida was when Bo Diddley started out here.

	W:	And what year was that? G:	That was 1990.

	W:	And what was his daughter’s name?



	G:	No Bo Diddley’s daughter; Evelyn Kelley, yeah, Evelyn Kelley. That’s his oldest daughter, Bo Diddley.

	W:	Okay, I met my grandfather’s brother-in-law that was married to his sister that died, that bloated him. I met him; his name was Joe Williams. And I met his wife and her name was Belle Williams. And I met their kids, Theodora, not Theodora, Theora was the daughter. Okay, and the oldest kids when she had them. Three kids, one of them got killed in Charleston, one of the boys got killed, his name





was Poncey. It’s a boy, he lived in Colorado and Theodora, she lived in downtown Charleston.

	W:	Do you know where the Williams were married?



	G:	No, they were probably married in Charleston. I’m not sure.



	W:	And what happened to the boy who was killed, how did he die?



G:  They say mistaken identity. They lived near the projects and he was talking with two kids, some girls, you know, and I guess from what they say they thought he was somebody else and shot him. So it was like Black-on-Black crime.

W:   What year was that?



	G:	His name was Ira. Ira got killed in, I want to say, maybe late [19]70s, maybe [19]80s. No, it had to be before that. I met them in [19]60. Either the late [19]60s or early [19]70s. I met a lot of my grandfather’s nieces and nephews from New York. My grandmother, her name is Margueritte Campbell Green, and she’s from the Campbells. I don’t know if they—I know her parents were by the Raafa, no not Raafa. I can’t think of a damn thing they had, but they had a thing from Covert, Michigan, they had a farm. Thirty-five acres, blueberries, and kids used to come from the different colleges south of Michigan to pick for the summer. And the Campbells, before they moved to Michigan they had a tavern, I guess they called it the same thing here. They sold like beer, wine.

W:   Do you remember the name of the place?



	G:	No. And that was on 61st and State, they owned that place. And I guess when they sold that then they moved to Michigan, they had like thirty-five acres up there. My grandmother had one brother; his name was Otis Campbell. He was





married but he didn’t have no kids because like I say—In 19—I know it’s 1940- something. It might have been before or after I was born, In 1940-something he was with a bunch of guys and he got in a car crash. He got thrown through the front window of the car he was in and through the back window of the car, so he had no kids. He was married to a lady named Hattie—can’t think of her last name. Married to Aunt Hattie, they didn’t have any kids. Aunt Hattie’s brother or sister, let me see, I think I had a brother or sister—must have been a brother or maybe sister—was married to—what’s the name? Bobby, Billy and Marley Jean, they were like half-White, half-Black. And I know Aunt Hattie’s ethnic people.

That was Uncle Otis sister’s wife.



	W:	Did they remain married after the accident?



	G:	Oh, well he didn’t know her. He was single. He married Aunt Hattie, I guess, in the [19]60s, maybe. I don’t know when they got married. But that’s the only aunt there that we knew, that was married to. Grand-Margueritte, her, my father’s mother’s grandparents, okay? They last name was Yoakum.

	W:	Yoakum?



	G:	Yoakum.



	W:	Y-O-A-K-U-M?



	G:	Yeah.



	W:	Or Y-O-A-C-U-M?



	G:	No, I think it’s Y-O-A-K-U-M. I think that’s how you spell it, I’m not sure. But it was them, they’re all from Missouri. I guess my grandmother is too, my father’s mother. They’re from Missouri. Because all the Yoakum’s is from Missouri and





they was like, I guess, my father’s mother—let me see. All her uncles and all my grandmother’s uncles and aunts were on—My father’s uncles and aunts was on my grandmother’s side, my father’s mother’s side, Yoakums and Campbells. And they always had money, the Yoakums, because they had—They lived on the south side of Chicago. I remember two of his, my father’s aunts, and both of them had been in jail for killing their husbands. One of them for killing more than one husband. [Laughter] They were rough, they were rough mothers, you know? My grandmother’s mother, I remember her vaguely, she looked like an Indian. My grandmother was half Cherokee. Her mother, she was a little lady, she had one of those corn pipes. Sometimes she had a cigar. You know, they was real way back in the—

	W:	What was her name?



	G:	I’m trying to think of her name. I remember my grandma, I’m thin king her name was Annie but I’m not sure.

	w:	This is your grandmama’s mama?



	G:	I met a lot of them. Uncle Bud, I think his name was James. I met a lot of them. My grandmother’s mother’s—I guess they had to be like my father’s great uncles or something like that because I met a lot of them growing up, you know. Let me see, I got my mother, my father, me and my—Okay, I don’t have any kids.

	W:	Have you ever been married?



	G:	I’ve been married twice. I have stepchildren from both marriages, okay? W:	Which was the first wife?

	G:	My first wife was Ethie Lee Applewhite.





	W:	And where did you all meet?



	G:	We met, the first time we met was on the phone. She worked for Chicago Tribune; she was the operator. I just drove a cab in Chicago.

	W:	Which cab company?



	G:	That was when I was with—I think it was Checker Cab, when I worked with Checker Cab. Because I worked for Yellow and Checker but I think I was working with Checker when I met her.

	W:	And when and where did you get married?



	G:	Oh, we got married twice. We got married in Chicago and then I wanna say the other one we got married in Charleston, South Carolina.

	W:	I misheard you for a second, I thought you said you got married twice. G:	Yeah.

	W:	So did you get married and then divorced and then married again?



	G:	No. We got married in Chicago, the City Hall, I think. And then, by me being a Catholic, she became a Catholic. When we moved to South Carolina—we got married before we went to South Carolina—I met her in Chicago. And then she moved to South Carolina, her and her youngest son.

	W:	And what was his name?



	G:	His name was Phillip Applewhite. Okay. When we moved to South Carolina, she became a Catholic. We were going to a Catholic church in Charleston, South Carolina. Then we got married at the church.

	W:	Now, your wife’s son Phillip, did you have any association with the father or what happened in that situation?





G:  I met the father. The father, okay, Ethie had three boys and a girl. Just like us, right? The oldest boy is named Donald Applewhite. Kenneth Applewhite, Linda Applewhite, that’s the girl, and Phillip Applewhite.

W:   And their father’s name?



	G:	Their father’s name was—what was that boy’s name? I don’t remember his name but he had muscular dystrophy or something like that. Okay, they was married, my wife was married to him and I don’t know how long they had been divorced, but he was in a wheelchair. He was in the Army. Whenever he got the muscular whatever, he got when he was in the Army.

	W:	Mmhm.



	G:	And he was in a wheelchair so whenever they would have—They have these things like the car show in Chicago or something like that he would get tickets. And then his wife, my ex-wife, he would bring the kids, they would all go there. So when I met Ethie and we started talking and stuff like that before we got married, I met him on some occasions. And I even went to a car show with him. I met him a couple times, I seen him a couple times but I knew that was they father and stuff. Okay, Phillip is the youngest. When we got married and moved to Charleston, the youngest son, he was too young, he went with us. We’d been together, I’d say about eight and a half years before we got married. And once we got married we only stayed together five years. [Laughter] What can you say about that, you know? We got married, stayed like that, okay? She was the only one that had, I would say that I had some kind of impact on her, right? The oldest





boy, his name was Donald Applewhite he was going to college and he stayed with his grandmother, his mother’s mother in Memphis, Tennessee.

	W:	Do you recall what college he went to?



	G:	No, I don’t. But I know he was a tutor; I don’t know where he is. Now Donald is married, he married a girl from Ohio and went to Tennessee. He’s the CEO of some company in Ohio. They make bucks, you know. Okay, and then next came Kenneth Applewhite, his name is Kenneth James. And when we were all living together people called him Kenny, so we’d get confused.

	W:	Big KJ and little KJ?



	G:	No. [Laughter] No they called him Kenny and they called me KJ because that’s what they called me when I was in the Navy, KJ, okay? So they called me KJ.

	W:	The daughter?



G:  The daughter’s name is Linda. Her name is Linda Applewhite. I think Donald has got two kids. Kenneth got some kids; I don’t know how many he got. [Laughter] I think Linda had three kids but the boy got killed. She had two girls and a boy; the boy got killed. He got killed maybe eight, nine years ago.

	W:	What happened?



	G:	Well, his name was Lee Applewhite and he lived with me and my wife since he was six months old, she went up to Chicago for the daughter because she wasn’t doing right. And he lived with us. The boy started living with her. Then, when he got about seventeen, eighteen years old, she still lived in Chicago and she wanted her son to come live with her and this and that. And he left Charleston and went up there to Chicago and got shot in the head, you know. Gangs. He





knows a lot of gangs in Chicago, he got shot and killed. He probably would have been all right if he had stayed in Charleston, but bringing kids from small places like Charleston, Gainesville, take them to Chicago and with everything else, you know… But let me see, Kenneth has multiple kids. Let me see, was he married? Kenneth was married to a girl from—I don’t remember her name—she was from Southern California. And they wasn’t married long, they didn’t have any kids. But he met her in the Navy, he was in the Navy and she was in the Navy also.

Because they came to visit her in Charleston. And then, let me see, Sonny wasn’t ever married and Philip went into—He was in the National Guard, and then he went in the Army and he was out in Washington, I guess the state, Washington, and he met a lady there that had kids. They say he got a lot of kids though. He married an older woman, and now they live in Texarkana, Arkansas. And that’s where his mother—His mother just moved there not too long ago. But Philip had four kids before he moved from North Charleston, with two different girls. And both of them, all four of the girls look like their mother.

	W:	Now, you said multiple kids so how many is multiple?



	G:	Kenneth had multiple kids. He had kids with this one and that one and this one and that one.

	W:	More than ten?



	G:	Oh, I don’t know. No, I don’t know if he had more than ten or not but I just said multiple kids because I don’t know how many kids he had. He had kids here and there. When Kenny got out the Navy he wanted to go back overseas and be a





model and I told myself, “Well, you know, he’s killed an American.” He killed an American overseas.

	W:	What year was that?



	G:	That would be late [19]70s. Maybe early [19]80s. Might be early [19]80s because I think that’s when he got out the Navy. He was in the Navy.

	W:	Now, the first marriage ended after five years of marriage but fourteen years overall. How about the second marriage?

	G:	The second marriage was five months. W:	And what was her name?

	G:	Her name was Jessie May McCray. W:	And where did you meet Jessie May?

	G:	I met Jessie May—she lived in a house in Archer, Florida. I lived in Bronson.



Okay, two young boys I know in Bronson, they needed somebody to take them to Archer, to these girls’ house, so they could go and party, whatever. So I was working with the state and plus I had a paper route—

	W:	And when was this, what time?



	G:	That’d be—I’m trying to think—me and Jessie May got married in [19]95, about the end of [19]95. We went together for a year, so I guess that would be [19]94/

	W:	So you knew each other for a year, was married five months. G:	Yeah.

	W:	What happened?



	G:	Well, she was one of those—money. After money. Money-hungry. But other than that, she was one way one minute, we’d be watching TV and one of those





Victoria’s Secret commercials would come on the TV and she’d flip the channel. I’d ask if something was wrong, whatever, she said that she know how men are when they see stuff like that. She went to a church, Compassionate, here in Gainesville.

	W:	They’ve gotten real big, that’s a big church now.



	G:	Now that’s where they buried her. They the ones that buried her. Jessie May died a month before Bo Diddley, I think. Because it was like Jessie May died and then a month later Bo Diddley died and then a month later, Bo Diddley’s son died.

	W:	What happened to Jessie May that she passed away?



	G:	She went up to stay with her oldest daughter in Atlanta. Now, Jessie May had three girls and a boy. She went to stay with her oldest, her and her husband. Her husband, his name was Cleve, his last name was Ferrell. He’s from Georgia.

She went up there and got him, they came down here and got married. So, she got sick when she was up there and they wanted to operate on her heart but she had all kind of blockages and stuff like that. She had blood clots. She was taking medication and stuff when I met her. She’s a real good cook and she make those feats and stuff. She used to cook for the church. But anyway, this guy named Robert Pralines, I took him and a bunch of his friends, cousins and stuff, to Jessie May’s house to party with her daughters. So I used to always sleep out in the car, right? And when it was over they’d come wake me up and I’d take them home because I had to pick up the papers. Until one day Robert came outside and he said, “Hey, my friend’s mama said why don’t you come on in?” I said, “No,





no. Too many young people for me.” You know? And I said, “No, I don’t know nothing about the people in that house.” So then he mentioned food, because I don’t cook, I always eat at restaurants or somebody’s house, and so, “She’s cooking porkchops, come on in the house,” you know. And so ain’t nobody said nothing about her being married or nothing. They’d talk about this and that. And I told her, I said, well if I bring the money over here, I told her I said, “I like porkchops smothered. I like macaroni and cheese cooked in the oven. I like collard greens.”

	W:	She made all that?



	G:	She made all that. [Laughter] You know, and so I told her if I gave her money, would she cook that meal for me one day. And so, she said, “Yeah.” So just when I was handing her the money this guy walk out the room, right? He said, “Who are you? Why you giving her money?” And so, I jumped on off of this because I didn’t know who this was, you know? I could’ve been another kid or something. Well, he wasn’t another kid. I didn’t know who he was, didn’t nobody say nothing about she was married or nothing like that. She didn’t say nothing to tell about her being married. And so I told myself, “You know, you shouldn’t jump around in people’s conversation.” [Laughter]

	W:	It your mouth.



	G:	I said, well, “If you must know, this lady can cook. I don’t cook. I’m giving her money to buy these ingredients and cook it for me, if it’s any of your business.” And Robert, he took me, he said, [inaudible 58:07].

	W:	You thought he was elbowing you.





	G:	Let me know, you know? And then he said, [inaudible 58:14]. I didn’t know she was married. She didn’t say nothing about her being married. She married this guy, James McCray. I don’t know how long they was married. They was married, they got divorced two weeks later, they got back married again. The first time they was married and got divorced, she got the house. The second time they was married, got divorced, she got the land. [Laughter] Then she married me, okay? Jessie May was more complicated because she said she was raped when she was young, her mother doesn’t know nothing about it. She had a bunch of brothers, like eight, nine brothers. Okay, all of them told me that she was crazy, don’t get married. Her mother, everybody told me. I figured I met a good Christian woman who went to church, didn’t know nothing. Okay, one day I bought plants, talk to Charlie, I used to help plant sales and I like to garden, I’m a master gardener. So I get all these plants every sale I get, put plants in the front yard. So one day she said that we need to get some potash. Potash is what you put down around plants to keep weeds down. It wasn’t the type of potash I was thinking about. By me not knowing a lot about—I know about voodoo and root and stuff like that and I really know too much about it. And so, we was at the store and she said, “There it is, right there.” Grabbed two cans, red lye. I don’t know that much about red lye. You put it in drains to unclog it, you know. So she wanted me to bury one by her front door, one by her back door. So I go to open it up and she said, “No, don’t open it up. Bury it like that.” She said, “Just listen to me and do what I tell you to.” So I did it. I don’t know if you know what it means to say something is heavy on your heart to the Lord. The Lord speaks to you if





there’s something is heavy on your chest. So I had to ask because I couldn’t imagine why a person would bury two cans of red devil lye in the ground without opening it. And she told me it was to keep away evil spirits. I said, “Oh, wait a minute now. You wanna keep away evil spirits? I thought you was a Christian?” And she said, “I am. I’ve got to have a backup.” I said, “Wait a minute, you jumped all on my case when I told you I was Catholic, we prayed to statues and ‘Catholics this and that.’” But Catholics rely on God or Jesus for a backup, we don’t rely on something like that. She’s talking about voodoo or roots or whatever?

	W:	Can you explain what you mean by Voodoo or roots? I know it’s a Southern tradition, I think I know what you mean by roots but you explain it better.

	G:	Voodoo is where I guess Louisiana and Haiti, where they use—Voodoo is where they take a doll or they take a carving, they’ll carve someone and say, “This is that person.” And then they would stick pins in or cut it—It’s superstition. Now roots is different, they did it in South Carolina. Root is you take—Okay, you got herbs and you take these herbs and you use them to make potions and stuff like that. Spells and stuff like that, that’s what roots deal in. And she said, “This is the reason why—” She said her husband, the guy I met, James McCray, his nephews and stuff was bringing roots and stuff and putting them in her house, giving her bad luck. But still, you don’t have no defense but God. At least, I don’t. And it just was so heavy on my heart that I had to ask, because I couldn’t imagine. But everybody I tell about it, when I said red devil lye, they all imagine, they knew what I was talking about. But see, I mean, people in Chicago, they





about to shoot you down, beat you to death, run you over with a car—and usually it’s not like that now. My father’s aunt used to talk about when her husband used to come home drunk, that she used to go and grab a chair and she got a little spider sac and put it in his beer. And then she never had to worry about him hitting nobody else because that’s when they found him with spiders coming out of his body. You know, because the spiders use the heat in your stomach to open the eggs up, the eggs will hatch and baby spiders are real little. You got like a thousand spiders in a thing like as big as this penny here. So they come through your veins.

	W:	I’m thinking, from what I understand, your thinking is that this roots that people describe as spirituality is really more just poisoning people.

	G:	Yeah, but basically people in South Carolina use the Bible, what they call Spin the Bible. That is a trick that they do with the Bible. They spin the Bible, you know, like the face of the Bible so it opens up to a certain page and read from it. Okay, in a Bible, there’s verses in the Bible you can use to keep evil spirits away, to keep people from harming you. People use it, some of them use it for good, some of them use it for bad. Good black magic. So people that use roots use the Bible and the passages in the Bible. Let’s say somebody is messing with you at work, right? They’d tell you stuff like, “You get you a red ribbon, write that person’s name on it, put it in the back of the freezer, that person won’t mess with you no more.” Or if you don’t want this person to come in your house. This is the stuff they do in South Carolina. You don’t want somebody coming in your house, you take salt, write that person’s name on your porch, and leave it out in the





yard. They’ll never come on your porch. Now, I don’t know if any of that’s true. Some people tell me it’s true, but I mean, if you like to dabble in that, that’s called Black Magic, witchcraft. And the Bible says when you dabble in that, then it come back on you ten times. So you’re not supposed to dabble in that because that’s of the devil. Okay, that’s what I’m talking about, roots. And they would take certain roots and put it in a bag. I found stuff in her light fixture. When you see a string in an outlet on the wall, you see a string hanging down. I thought it was dust, so I took a little and pulled it out of the bag. I opened the bag, it had roots in it. Herbal roots, you know. That’s when I said, “Well, damn.” So that’s how Jessie May and her second husband, they got divorced and then two weeks later they got back remarried and then they next time they got divorced, she got the land.

The way she was explaining to me that her husband felt he was doing it, but in actuality it was her doing it. Now, so a lot of that. And then me, when I was I guess nineteen years old—

	W:	I apologize. It’s okay because I’m interviewing you, but I just want to make sure— Did you and Jessie May break up and get divorced or did Jessie May die?

	G:	No, we got divorced five months later. It was income tax time that next year. We got married in I want to say September of [19]95.

	W:	And you were divorced by Valentine’s Day?



	G:	Yeah, we was divorced by the time income tax—well, right after income tax.



Because I came home from work, I was working [inaudible 1:07:46]—no, it had to be [19]94, because I’ve been out here since [19]95. Okay, what she did was I came home from work one day and she told me she wanted the keys to the





house, the keys to the van, and all my stuff was on the front porch. She said, “I’m putting you out. I filed for divorce last week.” Okay, now we had a joint account at the bank, right? Okay, she was taking care of her oldest daughter’s youngest son—well, youngest son then—so I was getting something close to like three or four thousand dollars. So she wanted to know if I wanted my stuff—If she wanted to take my stuff out to Mar, that’s Bo Diddley’s grandson. I said “No.” I said, “I’m gonna call your brother.” Her brother lived down the street, he worked out here at the University. I said, “Call Walter.” And then Walter said I could stay with him so she took the stuff down to her brother’s house. Walter kept telling me, “KJ, go get your money out the bank.” I said, “Well, we got a joint account. If I stop the account, the money’s gonna come to her.” She’s still gonna get it. So I’ll wait until that day. What happened next was funny because when I went to the bank, the guy asked me, he said, “Hey Mr. Green, did you see your wife?” I said, “No, where?” He said, “She was standing over there two minutes ago.” There wasn’t nothing left but about fifty dollars. And she got all the money.

	W:	You talked about being nineteen and I cut you off, I’m sorry.



	G:	Okay, when I was nineteen I was going with this girl and we was gonna get married and stuff, her name was Sharon and she was pregnant.

	W:	Pregnant from someone else?



	G:	Well, she said it was mine so I don’t know. W:	Okay, pregnant from you.

	G:	And then about like two or three months into the pregnancy, she used to get real sick to her stomach. I used to tell her, “Go to the doctor.” I was working. She





wouldn’t go to the doctor. I might have been older than nineteen, let’s see, because I got out the Navy. Yeah, okay. She said that her sister was gonna go with her, she was gonna go to the doctor. Okay.

	W:	What time of year was this and what year was it?



	G:	Oh, man. I’m thinking it had to be before I went into the Navy. I went into the Navy in [19]65. It might have been after I got out the Navy because I’m pretty sure—It had to be because I didn’t show up between the time I got out of school [inaudible 1:11:04]. It had to be after I got out the Navy because I was only in for two months and nine days. I got a bad heart.

	W:	Did you have an honorable discharge? General discharge? G:	Honorable discharge under general conditions. Okay.

	W:	And what was that date?



G:  I got out April. March 16th, 1965, was when I got into the Navy. My father’s first cousin was a commander out there in Camp Ford out in California. And I didn’t want a medical discharge because then I wouldn’t have been able to get a job. Older people, my father’s father used to put all kind of stuff into my head all the time. And I grew up with a lot of old-fashioned people.

	W:	You were discharged five days before I was born.



	G:	Oh yeah? That’s deep. [Laughter] Two weeks before they started sending troops to Vietnam. Okay, where was I? I can’t believe I talk so much.

	W:	It’s good. This is what these interviews are about. You were talking about



Sharon.



	G:	Okay, so this one morning I got up—





	W:	Can we turn the television down a little bit? G:	Oh, yeah.

	W:	I think it’s the volume on the top. Yeah. There you go, that’s good. I’ll turn it up before we leave.

	G:	I forgot to call somebody. Okay… W:	Sharon.

	G:	Sharon. Okay. We got up that morning and I was getting ready to go to work so she said she was gonna go to the doctor. So her sister came over and I can’t think of her name, but anyway, her sister came over and they went to—I left, going to work. SO when I got home from work, I tried to call, nobody answered, I figured they were at the doctor. So I get back home and I say, “Where’d she go?” They said, “Sit down, sit down. You need to sit down.” So I said, “No. Where’s Sharon, where’s Sharon?” You know, “Sit down.” Okay. They said that she went in the bathroom to change clothes, wash up and stuff, and they had to break down the door because she was in there too long. And they caught her after that. Back then they had a thing called the diaphragm. When she got pregnant, the baby grew up into the diaphragm and she had auto-intoxication. It killed her and the baby.

	W:	She didn’t remove the device?



	G:	No, she didn’t remove the device. She got pregnant and as the baby developed, it developed and everything and she didn’t remove the—When she got sick, she didn’t think it was that. She didn’t realize anything, and the baby grew into the diaphragm and it caused auto-intoxication. Auto-intoxication, you’re poisoned





from within. Both of them died. And then I never had any kids, but I knew I had a bad heart. Because when I was in my last year of high school, I was on the bus. I passed out on the bus; it was in the wintertime.

	W:	Saint Elmers or Saint Martin?



G:  No, I was in high school. I went to Hales Franciscan High School, that’s a high school on the southeast side. It’s about maybe from here to—It’s a good hour, two hours away on the bus.

W:   Here to Tallahassee?



	G:	No, it’s on the southeast side of Chicago. And I lived on the southwest side. W:	Okay, so it’s a city bus.

	G:	City bus, yeah. I went to Hales Franciscan High School, I went to Corpus Christi High School, and then they changed the name of it and built a new high school on the high school I went to, the south part of the building. A new Catholic high school, Cottage Grove. And that’s where I went, spent two years at Corpus Christi, two years and I graduated from Hales Franciscan Catholic High School. Where were we now?

	W:	We were in 1965. Two weeks before they started sending people away to Vietnam.

	G:	When I got out the Navy. Sharon, okay, oh, I know what I was talking about. I was talking about before that when I found out I got a congenital heart defect. A large heart, a big heart, a hole in the heart. They found all this out when I was on the bus going to school, my last year going to school. And I passed out, I had double pneumonia and that’s when they found out I had a bad heart. But then I





had a congenital heart defect so I figure, if I’ve had this since I was born, why are they just finding out about it? Okay, when I was in my freshman year I used to run track. I used to always get tired, and they was always talking about if I had fresh oxygen before I ran, it would help me. But I figured something was wrong, if you need to have oxygen before you run, something has gotta be wrong. After that, they it was like a little, light heart seizure that I had. Okay, they found all these things wrong. I didn’t never get on any medication or nothing like that. They took me to the hospital and I went to the [inaudible 1:17:52] the books and my studies like that. I went back to school, and then I turned—Before I was twenty- one, I had three heart seizures. Before I turned twenty-one. That slowed me way up, slowed me up a lot. I can’t get excited. So, I like women, I like sex. Don’t admit it, halfway through, you know—Bam! You can’t breathe and stuff like that, right. So I figured out what it was. I stopped doing anything that hurt me or harmed me, I just stopped doing it. So I figured that, well, how could you miss something? You like doing it but it ‘cause you to end up in the hospital. Because when you have seizures sometimes people look at it as an acting out. The last time I had one, that was before I went in the Navy. Last time I had one was in [19]64. I was at my aunt’s house and I was upstairs and I couldn’t breathe. I was leaning out the window, like this, and somebody was going past and seen me out the window. They said, “He gon’ jump!” [Laughter] Everybody runs out the house and starts grabbing on me. Everybody was grabbing on me, I’m pushing people off of me, trying to get them away, you know? Because I was trying to get air.

And this guy that lived down the street, he’s a National guardsman he had





handcuffs. Okay, and so when he pulled out the handcuffs, something flashed through my mind. What happened to my uncle, right? I lost my mind, started fighting. And I ended up—My auntie tried to find out why they was carrying me to jail. And the policeman told her, “Back up, I’m not gonna tell you anymore.” “He’s underage, you need to tell me.” He went, Bam! Like that, knocked her down. And when he did that, I lost it, I don’t remember.

	W:	He hit your aunt?



	G:	He hit my aunt, and I said—My uncle, my cousin, everybody, they was telling me about what happened. They said when they got me to the hospital they shot me with some stuff that was supposed to calm me down, and that’s all they did. It didn’t calm me down because the police was like—I wasn’t conscious but when the policeman walked in the room, I got this extra strength. And they said that they shot me up with enough stuff to put three elephants down. And I woke up, I finally woke up. Looked around, looked down. I couldn’t get up, couldn’t move.

They had me strapped down. And they charged me with all kinds of stuff. And I didn’t remember none of it. I used to like to drink wine, so I couldn’t drink. I used to drink Old Grandad 100 because that’s what my grandpa—father’s father, grandfather, used to drink. Old Grandad 100 and chase it with [inaudible 1:21:46]. So I didn’t know I was just adding fuel on to the fire. I had to stop it all because if somebody would do something to me and I get excited, I get excited and then it ends up—When things are wrong with somebody, instead of people trying to find out what’s wrong with that person or trying to calm that person down, the first thing they wanna do is put handcuffs on you or fight with you, you





know. Especially if you’re having seizures and you don’t know who this person is, why this person is grabbing on you, why they’re holding you down. I thought that back then that was the wrong way to go about it. People have seizures. People used to have seizures in the street, you know, the first thing people want to do is shove things up in people’s mouths and hold them down, you know. And the person is fighting and stuff. You gotta find out, try to keep the person calm. Try to calm the person down. And I learned all that growing up. Where instead of rushing somebody, trying to hold them down, talk to them, try to calm them down, try to find out what’s wrong.

	W:	What happened when they finally let you go?



	G:	When they finally let me go? I just went back to normal. I didn’t ever—I’ve never had to take—a lot of people I know they take medicine for their heart. They have pacemakers, all that kind of stuff. That’s all I have to do is don’t get excited and I’m fine. I don’t have to medicate. But then I found that when I was younger and I was sick, I was doing a lot of botany and herbs and roots and stuff because my grandparents dealt with a lot of that and I knew a lot of people that done roots, would walk you into woods and show you what this is, that is, and this is good for that and this is good for that. So I said, “I don’t need no doctor,” you know? If you know people that died of a heart attack, strokes and stuff, when they could’ve been—Like Jimmy, my Uncle Jimmy. When he was in the hospital, they said he had cancer. And I tried to smuggle some carrot soup to him and they found out, they wouldn’t let me take it to him. “The doctor will say this and that,” you know. I said, “The stuff that the doctors give you is some kind of drug. Some drug is like





me eating paper and rags and stuff, it’s not doing anything for the inside of your body.” I tried to explain to them but nobody would listen, that’s because I was too young, stupid, something else. You try to help people but when you’re young, they know better, you know. Go to the doctor, do this. Like my father used to tell me, he said, “Well, quit trying to be your own doctor and go to the doctor.” You know. I said, “No.” I go to the doctor. When you have a lot of doctors, I went to the doctor one time and he prescribed this medicine for me. I can’t think what they call it but I had it when I was in the Navy, and it was made from orange pills and lemon pills and stuff. And he gave me a prescription of it, Eastside Clinic, that’s where I was working for the state system. I went everywhere trying to get this prescription filled. And one doctor finally told me, he said, “Sir they ain’t made this medicine in fifteen years.” So you know, how this doctor gonna prescribe medicine for me that they didn’t make, only he got. So I stopped going, whatever. Next time, I went over to HGA, and there were different doctors, you know, and I tried for a while and as soon as they mess up, I’m gone. So it’s just that if it’s real serious, I’ll go. Let’s say when I was working doing the services out here, I used to—I couldn’t, there would be a slippery floor. And they want you to move fast. I never learned how to move fast on a slippery surface. See, I figured all the people down here used to moving on a slippery surface. I’m from Chicago, I don’t know how to move on a fast on a slippery surface without falling. And I would always fall, hit my head, fall down the steps, you know. And then it got so that the people at the infirmary, I was over there eight times a week. There’s only





seven days in a week. [Laughter] So all them know me when I come there as accident-prone.

	W:	I’d like to talk about your UF [University of Florida] career but I want to say, you got from Chicago to South Carolina. How’d you get from South Carolina to Florida?

	G:	Bo Diddley’s oldest daughter, Evelyn Kelley, and oldest grandson, Mark McDaniel, brought me to Florida.

	W:	How did you meet them?



	G:	Okay, Mark’s oldest grandson was in my 4H club in South Carolina, 1980. And when he left, he left South Carolina to come here and live with his grandfather here in Florida. Okay, they came back in [19]90, and they said, “Well, why don’t you come? KJ, what you doing? Why don’t you come to Florida?” I’d never been to Florida except both my parents been to Florida, they both have relatives here but I’ve never been. So then they started talking about, “Well, they got a lot of snakes and different animals you can catch.” I catch snakes, I been doing it since I was young. So I said, “Okay. I’ll go for two weeks.” Went for two weeks, then three years, got this job at Tucker Charlies, go back every now and then. Me and snakes have been ever since I was like eight, nine years old, I found out people was afraid of them and I didn’t understand why. My grandfather said, “Next time you see one, stand still and just observe.” So next time we went in the woods—I used to try catch these frogs going to Catholic school, take them back, let them loose in the school, freak people out. Next time I seen a snake, the boys went that way, snake went that way. I remember learning about them where the





White families, if the kids are interested in something, the parents will push the kids to learn about it. And in Black families, if the kids was interested in something and the parents were afraid, that’s as far as it would go. It would be up to the kid to try it out. So that was my job. I just found everything I could about reptiles and this and that. What reptiles eat, stuff like that. I still do it.

	W:	What was it about snakes that fascinated you?



	G:	Well, what fascinated me was that here’s this thing that’s not very big—because I had one that was twenty-three feet but that was back then—you see something that’s five, six feet long laying on the ground and people was afraid of it. I couldn’t understand that. Because, well, if you taught fear, you’ll have fear all your life.

But if you wasn’t ever taught fear—I wasn’t ever taught fear. My mother and grandparents used to always say, “Don’t be mad, fear God, because God can take your life.” The only thing that other people can do is they can take your body, but God still has your soul. I wasn’t ever afraid of anything. I was afraid of somebody that was drunk and had a gun, yeah. You remember, because I wanted to keep one on everything like that. But as far as that, I mean, as far as an animal was concerned, I couldn’t understand why a person would be afraid of an animal. I can see a person being afraid of an alligator since I know what an alligator look like. Or a bull. Or something like that. But in Chicago, you didn’t see anything. You see snakes sometimes; you didn’t see stuff. You’d see stuff like cars and trucks and busses that run over people, you know, or people fighting, pushing people out windows. You see people getting shot—Pop, pop, pop! I’ve seen the police shooting at people. Pop! You know. When you see stuff like that,





animals, I couldn’t understand why they was afraid of it. Then the first time I caught one, that thing tightened up on my arm and my hand went numb. I said, “Its wrong,” and cut him off, right? And then going out looking for ‘em, you know?

	W:	What do you do with them? Do you catch them? You sell them? You eat them?



What do you do with snakes?



	G:	I don’t cook. Bo Diddley’s grandson, he cook snakes. He’s cooked snakes before.

	W:	What kind of snakes does he cook?



	G:	Oh, just regular rat snakes. They taste good. Once you filet them, take it all out, they taste like different types of meat.

	W:	Did you meet Bo Diddley a lot?



	G:	Oh, I met him when he came—See, I worked with Bo. I worked for Bo in [19]93, because he was always gone. When he came back, then I met him. My father knew him. My father said he was a plump fellow. My father and my uncles and my mother’s brother, all them are like, they from Englewood and it was like if somebody mess with one of us, they gotta deal with—

	W:	Everybody.



	G:	The rest of the Greens. But I don’t know if my father actually even knew, you know what I mean, his music. Everybody shared his music. And my mother, she likes his music. So you know, I don’t know the deal with that but anybody who wasn’t streetwise, my father called a faggot. If he wasn’t streetwise, knew about the streets, that’s what he was. He was tough, Black Panther Party and all that stuff like that. He was in a lot of stuff.





	W:	Did you work for Mr. Bo at the same time you were with Top of Charlie?



	G:	Yeah, that’s where I got—I was planting trees at Top of Charlie, Bo had donated some trees. I plant trees out there back in my cottage, he said, “Hey, want a job?” I said, “Yeah, you knew I wanted a job.” I said yeah, because I had an application last week and I was working. So I had to quit Bo’s because I couldn’t do both of them.

	W:	How long did you stay with Top of Charlie?



	G:	Eighteen months. I transferred over here in 1995. That’s why I might have my years messed up with Jessie May. Because Jessie May talked me into transferring over here to the university, because she had a lot of brothers that worked over here and plus she used to work there years ago. When she first got sick, she worked here. And she was like a lot of people that work at Top of Charlies because Top of Charlie was like ninety percent women. And a lot of the women that worked over there went to her church. One time, I was driving her there and I see this lady going like that, you know. And I was always like, you don’t mess with nobody’s vehicle. So I said, “What the hell are you doing?” You know, I cursed her out. She was looking in the vehicle. I don’t know who she is, you know. So I got home, she said, “Did you curse somebody out at work?” I said, “Yeah, some lady was looking in the van. You don’t mess with nobody else’s vehicle.” That’s a no-no, you don’t mess with nobody’s house, nobody’s vehicle, nobody’s food. So I said yeah. She said, “That was my church sister.” This and that and “I got people watching you.” Why you got people watching me?





I was always accused. We’d go to the store together, if I’d speak to people—I guess I just get along with people. I see people I know; I speak to them.

	W:	Yeah, that’s true, I noticed that tonight. You spoke to the gentleman in the back, I walked out to the parking lot, five different people came out of different ways and different places. You knew their names and spoke to every single one of those people.

	G:	When?



	W:	Tonight.



	G:	Oh, when you came over here.



	W:	When I first came over, you knew the name of every person to come out. Five or six people came out, and you talked to everybody by name. Is that something that you do?

	G:	Yeah, well, I mean, I would wanna know the people that I deal with. And then you got blessings like that, you know what I mean? I mean, I speak to everybody in the establishment. Somebody said to me, “When you quit here you’re gonna become a Walmart greeter.” I said, “Why you say that.” Say, “Because you greet somebody.” I greet people in the morning, I greet people in the afternoon. I know everybody. I mean, when you drive a cab, you get to know a lot of people. I drove a cab in Chicago for fifteen years, I drove a cab in South Carolina for seven years. And in driving a cab on the street, it’s just like traveling from here to the university, on the street you have to know if people wanna get high or get drunk or find some girls or whatever, you know. That was your job in order for you to make that money. The difference here, because they feed you all the intel. You





don’t pick up nobody unless they call the cab. Everybody— I asked them yesterday, the ladies I work with, I said, “Do I have a kind of face that people remember me?” This lady I worked with, Isis, I hadn’t seen in ten years and this lady got in the cab and say, “I know you from somewhere. Didn’t you used to clean floors or something?” I said [inaudible 1:36:51] she said she don’t usually remember people but so she said I must be somebody that would’ve had a special job. I said, “No, I run my mouth a lot. I talk to people.”

	W:	That’s how we met. I was walking by on the bench on my way to meet the director of the Oral History Project and I spoke to you and we sat down and we talked.

	G:	Oh yeah. Well, I’ll talk to anybody. Well, I mean—



	W:	I take that in the true spirit of what you meant. [Laughter]



	G:	The house that I stay in, my landlord, I used to stay behind them. So when they moved, I stayed in the house that they were staying in. So when him and his wife moved down, they called down to my house and said, “KJ, we got a place ready for you.” And they knew I don’t cook, they know I’ll take something and heat it up, you know, but I don’t cook. I just learned how to cook eggs because I like eggs.

So I learned how to cook sausage. Sometimes, I like stuff well done but if I go to a restaurant I know I’ll get it done right. You see, my grandfather, my father’s father and mother, they had a restaurant in Chicago. They had a delivery stand, and it was like everybody on my father’s side of the family had—It was like they had money already, because they had businesses and stuff. And my father, my mother’s father, the way he running the money was he running the money from





doing that puzzle. He bought an apartment building on the southwest side of Chicago over in Englewood. It was all Englewood, I guess, from State Street west was all of Englewood.

	W:	Can I take you back to the University of Florida? I wanted to ask you about your experiences. And you can think about it before you answer, but I wanna know, what has your experience been like at the University of Florida? And what is your experience as a Black man been like at the University of Florida?

	G:	Well, my experiences at the University of Florida, when I first came here, well, running Building Services was a real challenge. Because it was like people was afraid, when they had me, people was afraid to stand up and ask for what they want. And I was never afraid, so I would blurt it out. And people would always be doing this, “Don’t ask no questions.”

	W:	Pulling at your clothes?



	G:	Yeah, you know, they didn’t want you to ask no questions because they felt that—Like when I worked over at PK Younge, I worked with Isis. And so, if I needed something, because there was only like three of us at first, if we needed something, we would always ask for it. Okay. I found out here working at the university, being Black, that if you needed something, it was certain ways that you go about getting it. They believe in these handbooks that they pass you out, why would you give a person a handbook and then don’t go by it? You wouldn’t give that to somebody who—I guess I’m kind of educated. But if you hand me a book and say, “These are the rules we go by.” I’m gonna read these rules and then when I catch you doing something against the rules, I’m gonna step to you





and say such and such. Now, since I was out of service for ten or eleven years, and they’ve changed their handbooks seven times. Because evidently, they’re not reading their own book that they’re putting out. You can’t have somebody do something and tell them this the way it’s in the book, and you ain’t read the book. You see? Now, they was trying to punish me when I was working over with Isis at PK Younge.

	W:	What year was that?



G:  That had to be—I’m trying to think. Had to be like [19]96, [19]97, something like that. They were trying to punish me for something that I did, I pissed them off or something. And they told me this is my punishment. I say, “People don’t punish people at work.” So I went to the big man, I went to the man, they got mad.

Because they told me, they say, “You don’t go to the White man on us, we can handle everything down here.” I said, “Evidently y’all can’t handle stuff. Y’all trying to punish me and this is a job, equal opportunity?” I said, “No, you don’t do stuff like that.” I said, “When you do stuff like that, that make people come bring guns up here and play post office with y’all.” So they know what I meant. But okay, they was trying to punish me and then homeboy, Mr. O’Brien he said, “Doug talked to Dan, Dan talked to Danny—”

	W:	This is the chain of command?



	G:	The chain of command, yeah. We don’t punish people out here, we don’t punish, they do work. I said, “You can’t punish.” Like I told Mr. O’Brien, “You can’t punish a workaholic.” When I came to Florida, I was working. When I leave Florida, I’m gonna be working. I said, “I’ve been working since I was young, my grandfather





taught me that you work better with sweat on your brow.” You know, if you ain’t work for it and you get money, it ain’t worth having. Now, I grew up with that thought. I had to work for whatever I earn. And as far as selling drugs and stuff like that, that’s not working for what you earn. I mean, you get money, good money for selling drugs, but it’s against the law. You’re gonna get caught, you know. So don’t do anything. All right, you’ve already got a strike in the South. The way I think. In the South, you already got a strike against you because you’re a second-class student, you’re Black. Since I’ve been in the South, they always looked at me as not equal with everybody else. I’ll give you an example. South Carolina, me and my wife, we opened a bank account. The lady was gonna sign, she said, “Make your mark here.” I said, “What kind of mark?” I didn’t know what she was talking about, making your mark. I said, “I can sign.” And she said, “You can sign your name?” I said, “Yeah, I can read too.” [Laughter] I was shocked.

And I started noticing stuff. My stepson, Phillip, he was light skinned. He used to run, jog. He’s jogging and the police pull up to him, pull up on him real fast, and he just look at ‘em and keep on jogging. They follow him, they stop him, they wanna know what he running from. He say he jogging. They said, “No, you running from something.” You know, they bring him home. I said, “Are y’all stupid or what? You’ve never heard of a person jogging? Why you gotta be running from something?” You know, just looking for you. Over here at the University, they have a meeting and they tell you, “Anybody got any questions?” I ask the question, okay, I blurt out these questions that they couldn’t answer, and then from then on I was like a troublemaker. Every time they have a meeting and I





raise my hand, they try to give me, “Don’t ask no questions.” Okay, they bought some machines one time during the service. They bought some machines, they had them over in the building. Got this guy, he’s somebody that they found him a job, made up a job for him, since he was the Assistant Director of Frampton School. He’s White. They made this job up for him. So he fixing stuff up where he stored some carpet and the neighbors gon’ test it, right? So, I started asking questions about this machine and everybody was mad at me because I was asking so many questions. I mean, how you gon’ put something on the carpet the day before and expect this machine to clean it. I said, “I don’t care what kind of chemical you use, you’re gonna have to prep it first, prep at least for twenty minutes.” You can’t just come out and clean it. I said, “Different stains you have to use different things for stains” so I said, “if we run this the way they want us to work, they want us to work once we punch in, we don’t stop working until we punch out.” Except for lunch. Okay, if I’m running this machine for eight hours straight, five days a week, how long will this machine run? Is this an industrial machine? No, it’s not. Well, what good is an—Why would you spend money on a machine that’s gonna break down before six months? To them, that was the wrong questions. I was asking too many questions to the people that was trying to sell the machine. He said that I asked good questions. Because it’s something that—Okay, my grandfather, my father’s father, was a janitor. My father’s brothers and my father was a janitor. My father retired from janitor and changed, my grandfather retired, my uncle is retired. I was a janitor, my brother under me was a janitor.





	W:	Are you in the union?



	G:	No. I left, when I left Chicago. After I found out if you worked twenty years you could retire. I said I wasn’t going anywhere, you know. But these are just things that you learn when you’re young. I learned all these things when I was young. I learned all these things about carpet, grass, being a janitor. Because a janitor in Chicago is taking care of all parts of the building, like two hundred and fifty units. The janitors down here, it’s a different story. They call them custodians here at the university, a custodian don’t do half the things that a janitor do. If they had a janitor at the university, they wouldn’t need a maintenance man. You see? So what they did was they took the job of a janitor and split it up. They got maintenance people and then you got custodians. Custodians only do floor care, matter of fact, you might as well say even the grounds people because the janitor in Chicago did all that. He took care of the building, he watered the grass, he plant the grass, he cut the grass, he buffed, he waxed, he did the carpet, did everything that you need to do to a building, the janitor did it. And here, they got it broke down into parts. Now, we are at this building, they have these machines that are thirty years old that they use to shampoo carpets. They need to people to pick the machine up and carry it, okay? When I first started working at the university, they had about five buildings that didn’t have elevators in them. And we had to go to—When you go past the second floor, that’s work. You go to third floor, fourth floor, fifth floor.

	W:	Do you recall which buildings those were?





G:  Ralph Hall, Van Fleet, 477, that’s over in Isis, that’s about like three buildings over from Isis where you had to go. I call them fire escapes, the stairs. I don’t know if you know what those are. Fire escape stairs are metal.

W:  Like used to be on the outside of Ralph Hall? Except now there’s an elevator there.

	G:	No, they used to—I don’t remember. Let me see, yeah we used to walk up the steps, something like Ralph Hall. But these are metal steps, something like—You said you took Ag[riculture]?

	W:	Yes sir.



	G:	Here at Florida?



	W:	I’m studying Agriculture right now.



	G:	Well, they had a building, I don’t think they got a building no more. Okay, these are metal steps and they go either up or they go—You ever watch the movies on TV, NYPD or anything like that? These metal steps, they pull down like that.

	W:	Fire escape.



	G:	Okay, they had steps like that. If it’s wet and you carrying the machine and certain shoes that you wear, like they gave us these big old rubber boots that came up to your knees. Certain spots in them boots, you hit that stair wrong, you coming down. Same with the shoes. They got shoes that’s non-grip, that won’t slip and stuff like that but when you got metal, it’s different. So I wanted them to—I figured they had some kind of rig or some kind of something they could rig up something. Arm us so we could pick it up. Pick the machine up and carry it up the steps, a way to carry it where two people wouldn’t have to. And so I wrote a





letter to the Executive Safety Committee which is up in 700 on the [inaudible 1:52:13] side, and said that I’m trying to stop someone from getting a class-action lawsuit out here at the University of Florida. I like working here. But I could see it coming. And I wanted to explain. Two people carrying this machine up these metal steps, and let’s say me and you carrying the thing up the steps. And I’m a vindictive person, me and you got into it last week but yeah, we laugh and talk and stuff like I forgot it. That’s all I had to do was let go of it and you dead. You know? If you had an elevator or some kind of arm, something to carry the, you know, where people wouldn’t risk their life. The first thing that come out they mouth is, “Who you planning to kill?” It’s not that I’m planning to kill anybody, I’m just trying to save y’all money! Because I know if somebody gets hurt out here, that they gon’ get sued. Then I found out that a couple guys got hurt out here and then come to find out you can’t sue the state of Florida, the University, you’ve got to sue the—What’s it called when you get hurt out here?

	W:	Workman’s comp[ensation].



	G:	Yeah, that’s what it is. Workman’s comp.



	W:	Mr. Green, you’re not gonna believe this but we’ve been in this interview for two hours. I would like to transition into the final half-hour to ask you just a couple questions about some things going on right now. And we’ll take this, if it’s a half- hour, that’s great, as much of it we’ll consume. The University of Florida is currently celebrating the fiftieth year of integration in the institution when the first African American student went here after much struggle and all the things that have dealt with that. And they’ve been dealing with that all year long, from the





first football game, Black Alumni Weekend, to Mr. Starke and Mrs. Mickle being on campus recently. I wanna know, what do you think about the students here at the University of Florida today and also, what do you think about the Black students here at the University of Florida today?

	G:	The students or the Black students, some of them are smart—I guess all of them are smart. But then, technology makes a lot of students stupid because a lot of them are not gonna live to see Christmas when Christmas is this close, because of them cellphones and them machines, little things that they use. Because they’re not paying attention, they got tunnel vision. Now, the Black History, last year they did something. Black Administrators over at Tigert Hall, HR [Human Resources], this guy, I think his name was Carleton Davis, he has to do with diversity on campus—

	W:	That was the last of the three original Black professors at University of Florida.



Ronald Foreman retired, Elwin Adams passed away, and Carleton Davis in Agriculture is the last of the original three Black teachers at UF.

	G:	No, his name is Shelton Davis, I’m sorry, not Carleton—Carleton Davis works at McCarty Hall. Shelton Davis works at the HR. Okay, Shelton, he talks to different people about diversity on campus. He wants to know how things are going with the White counterparts, Black counterparts. I met some Black people, I mostly met Black women that graduated from the University of Florida that went here, that went to this school called Lincoln. And a lot of Black people in Gainesville, so they tell me that they went to one school, the Whites went to another school, so all the Black people that did go to college, you go to the University of Florida,





they all know each other. Right? And I think that’s a good thing in a way. That’s like alumni, right? But I don’t think a lot of young Black people appreciate the things that older Blacks have done to get to this point.

	W:	What do you mean?



	G:	Well, a lot of them are not interested in—I mean, they’re interested in some things but they don’t take things serious. I mean like, I haven’t met that many Black students out here but I’ve met a lot of people that work out here, and Blacks in general in Gainesville and the University of Florida, that I know, the only thing that they interested in coming to work, doing what they have to do to get off, and get paid. Now, if it doesn’t affect them directly, they don’t care.

	W:	Why do you think that is?



	G:	Well, it could be from a lot of things. A lot of Blacks think that “Well, my one vote is not gonna change nothing.” You don’t know if your one vote gonna change anything if you’ve never tried. If I go up there, if I stand up with you and go talk to this person about change, what they gon’ do? They’ve had several programs out here where the first shift can talk to the second shift and third shift, and they had them all meet. They take one or two people out of different shifts and put them together in a room. If they’re not quite nice, they’ve got to have a mediator, somebody to be in there. Okay, if the mediator wasn’t in there, all they would do is shoot shit, talk about when they was coming up and stuff instead of talking about how to honor our problems between the shifts. Because there’s a lot of stuff going on out here between the shifts where if there had’ve been—The people that work out here at the University of Florida, if they all came from up





North, half these people out here would be dead. People piss you off, they piss you off real bad and you have to hold your tongue. When you got a problem, the University of Florida got all these programs over in the infirmary where you can go if you’ve got a drug problem, if you’ve got depressed and stressed, they got all these programs where you can go and talk to somebody and get help and not lose your job. But they won’t do it. A lot of them don’t trust it, a lot of them say, “Well, it don’t make no difference.” But we say, “They do what they wanna do.” I said, “Not necessarily, because if you get enough people to complain about stuff, it’ll be done. I work on the second shift for practically eleven years, maybe ten years I worked on the second shift. Everybody on the second shift has to use a, on their hip, a pump sprayer, you know, inhaler, right? Because the chemicals that they use when you ask for stuff for the chemicals, they give you a mask for dust. And then you tell them, no, you need one for another kind. Then they give you one for—they don’t give you the one that you need, the one for chemicals, because you’re using chemicals. Okay, they got all these chemicals and each chemical by itself is not enough to harm you, except for maybe a few of them.

But then if you use this on top of this chemical on top of that chemical and you inhaling it, it’s harming you. It might not show for twenty years and then these people be dead and gone. Especially when somebody try to speak up and people don’t want you to say something because you’re making the waves get higher. They don’t want to say nothing. I try to get these guys, the doctor told them that they couldn’t work around chemicals. He don’t wanna lose his job, because he got a family. But then if you dead, you still gon’ lose your family. So





you might as well say something about it, you know? You try to get them to say something about it, but then you got people that—the majority of the Black people that work out here afraid of the White man. Period. I found that out in Building Services. They don’t want you to say nothing to them, they don’t wanna do nothing to rock the boat. But if you’re wrong, you’re wrong, you need to tell them about it. I firmly believe that if something is wrong, I need to let you know. Because it’s gonna eat the hell out of me and I might do something I regret, so I’m gonna say something about it. But a lot of them don’t wanna do that. Since I’ve been over here in this department, it’s a different story. When I was over there in Building Services and I got the fumes, I swoll up. SO they telling me this, telling me that. I’m in a room with all these White guys, they telling me what I can do, what I can’t do. I said, “Well, I tell you what I’m gonna do. I’m gonna write a letter to OSHA, I’m gonna write a letter to Tallahassee, and I’m gonna write a letter to EPA [Environmental Protection Agency] and then we’ll see.” And then everybody start panicking. Like there’s the song, everybody plays the fool sometimes. But sometimes you have to play the fool because if you don’t you’ll be long gone. I’d have been long gone from this university a long time ago. But I just play, I go to school, I take class if I can, and the guys out here don’t take it too well. “He’s trying to be smarter or something.” I said, “I ain’t after all y’all’s jobs.” You know, I ain’t got the fantasy job. I ain’t after this job. I don’t want Mr.

O’Brien’s job, even and Papa’s job, the president of the university’s job, I don’t want those jobs. Headaches, you know?





	W:	I’ve got a list of things here I wanna get just some short responses from you so as we go through the list I’ll check them off and you give me your impression on these things. Tim Tebow.

	G:	Tim Tebow, he’s the quarterback for the Gators. I don’t like football. W:	Okay, John Lombardi?

	G:	Who?



	W:	John Lombardi. G:	John Lombardi.

	W:	He was the president when you came here.



	G:	Oh, okay. He seemed like he was cool, I met him. He would talk to me, I mean, if I asked him a question he would answer it.

	W:	Rosewood.



	G:	Rosewood, oh that’s where all the Black people got killed at out there near Cedar Key. Well, what I think about Rosewood, it was a bunch of educated Blacks and you had a lot of uneducated Whites, which no White man thinks that a Black person is supposed to be smarter than him, so… But I think it was all like from the story that I seen on TV, what I got from that was she was afraid to say who really it was and it was easier to blame it on a Black man than to say who it was.

	W:	Gainesville.



	G:	Well, Gainesville is a college town. W:	Bo Diddley.

	G:	Legend. Blues.



	W:	The moon landing. July 1969.





	G:	One of them wasn’t real—was it the moon? No. I don’t know, I can’t say that we landed on the moon. They say we did but a lot of that is hard to believe that anybody went up there. They might have landed on the moon, they might have, but I doubt it. I don’t believe it, I’ll put it that way.

	W:	Robert Kennedy.



	G:	They say he was killed for Clinton. W:	That was the next names.

	G:	The Kennedys, they had a position and they abused it because they was Catholic, which a lot of Catholics get away with a lot of stuff back in the day. But Bill Clinton, Bill Clinton was a Democrat. He was a draft-dodger. If he had been one of us, we would have never got a presidency, he dead.

	W:	John F. Kennedy.



	G:	John F. Kennedy, no nonsense. W:	Black Student Union.

	G:	Black Student Union, I don’t know if they got a Black Student Union. I know they got Black Culture out here. Is that what you’re talking about?

	W:	No, I mean that’s an actual student organization, the Black Student Union. I’m just trying to get your response or what you think when you hear it.

	G:	Black Student Union, it’s possible. I’ll put it that way. W:	Rosa Williams.

	G:	Rosa Williams, Rosa Williams, huh. I don’t know who that is.



	W:	She works at Chalk Chalice, she’s a local activist in Gainesville. I thought you might know her. 9/11.





	G:	9/11, oh, when the United States agitated them terrorists. That’s when they shot down—well I think the United States had something to do with that.

	W:	Bernie Machen?



	G:	Bernie Machen, that’s who I call the Gorbechov. He’s a dentist trying to run a school that he don’t know anything about.

	W:	Malcom X.



	G:	Malcom X, activist. Community leader. W:	Martin Luther King.

	G:	Another activist. W:	Affirmative action.

	G:	Oh, now that one there. I think affirmative action is when you take a test but—I don’t think that’s the one. I’m not sure about affirmative action. Affirmative action is where you can get a job because of the color of your skin. I’m not sure if that’s the one where some jobs, applications you do, you have to put what color you are. That stuff, and then some applications you don’t have that on. I’m not sure about affirmative action.

	W:	Physical plan?



	G:	Physical plan, physical plant is the place where they service the University of Florida. Whatever need.

	W:	Barack Obama.



G:  Messenger. He’s a messenger. He gives some good speeches, but one-on-one he can’t answer tough decisions. He just pop up. Somebody is behind this man, he pop up. He’s on the extreme left, he’s a Democrat, but he wants everybody to





depend on the government. If you depend on the government, whatever the government owns, they control you. That means your rights are gone, I do not want that.

	W:	Sarah Palin.



	G:	She’s a mother, she’s a governor. I think she might be good for McCain, for the GOP [Grand Old Party]. A lot of people don’t think because she’s got five kids, they don’t think that she could be a vice president but I mean, there’s never been a woman vice president, so they don’t know what she can do. I mean, she’s got kids, you know, five kids. But I mean, that’s normal. People have family and they go and work. I know people that raised seven, eight, nine, ten kids by theyself.

So I don’t know, politics is—they do wrong in politics. They do people wrong in politics. They ruin people’s careers and they don’t have to. I mean that’s like the presidential nomination, the president, well I do believe that you have to have military background. But I thought you would need military background in order to president, that’s how it worked out. But when Clinton got in there, Clinton was a draft-dodger. What he know about the military? Nothing. George Bush was in the Coast Guard. Like a security guard, you know. So they say Barack Obama don’t have the knowledge, there’s not special requirements to be president. What’s the governor of California? He can’t be because he wasn’t born in the United States. But other than that.

	W:	You gotta be thirty-five, you’ve got to be a naturalized citizen, you have to have lived in the United States fourteen years.





	G:	Yeah, stuff like that, but there’s nothing specific saying that you have to be in the Armed Service or you have to do this or do that. But everybody’s giving Barack Obama a lot of—This lady made a statement last year about all this wouldn’t be happening, the only reason why this is happening is because he’s Black. If he wasn’t Black, he wouldn’t be going through half this stuff. But when you Black, you have to do a good job, you can’t have no skeletons in your closet, and when you mess up, everybody jumps on you wrong and they blame the whole race.

That’s the way it is. But if you do something and you do it good, you know, and you keep people out of your business and do your job, then you don’t have nothing to worry about.

	W:	Charlie Crist?



	G:	Charlie Crist, oh that’s the governor of Florida. I wouldn’t vote for him. W:	Chicago.

	G:	The deadly machine. They got good and bad in that town. W:	Refugee.

	G:	Refugee, that’s somebody who runs away. That’s somebody who instead of staying, refugee to me is somebody who stays and fights or somebody who runs away. Runs the other way, you fight another time on your own terms. My father used to call me a refugee because I used to run from the gangs. I wouldn’t fight on they terms; I’d hardly fight on my own terms.

	W:	I asked because it’s tattooed on the top of your arm, on your left arm. So I saw that and I wanted to ask you about it.





	G:	I had that tattooed when he died. But it reminds me of him. They call me that because I used to run from the gangs. My father said, “Next time you run away from them, I’m gonna beat you down.” I got beat down a bunch of times. But then once I got up to high school and learned different things about how you can use acid without it burning you and the effect that it has when you throw it on fifteen, sixteen boys. A lot of things have changed in my life, a lot of things that the older I got, the more I learned. And I’m always seeking knowledge. I have snakes, I got lizards, I got spiders, I got baby rabbits, I got two dogs, I got a cat, I got a bird. I mean, my lizards I go out and find them food. I run across in insect I don’t know, I take it to entomology and they tell me what it is. I feed my snakes, lizards, I catch mice. Sometimes I buy mice. Feed my snakes, my birds. I just love everything.

When I was little, I was two years old and got lost. They took us to the park by the little parade they have every year in Chicago. I got lost, the first one to ever get lost in the whole family. Where they find me? He’s trying to catch fish, get fish out the water. [Laughter] I’m always trying to bring animals home. When I started catching snakes, trying to smuggle them back to Chicago. I wasn’t putting them in the right thing because my father stopped seven miles out of Concord and looked through the trunk, take the snakes and throw them away. When I was young, when I was a little boy—I wanna show you how fantasy, how kids think. I wanted a house with at least twenty bedrooms. I’d have an animal in each bedroom, you know, fix it up. They don’t look in place. And I’d have a chessboard, I love chess. I’d have a chessboard for people that thought they were smarter than everybody else. I’d have a king with snakes crawling all





around it. I had this other one built up, this table built up over the top of it, the chessboard, and then like a sweatbox, you know. But then somebody said one time, when I was in the Navy a guy said, “You must be going rich.” I said, “Why you say I gotta be rich?” Because to have twenty bedrooms, you had to be rich. I said, “Oh, I never thought about that.” As long as I got some land, because I like plants. I got all kinds of plants, all kinds of trees. I feel if I was to go out in the woods—Not now, but when I used to drink, I used to go out in the woods, sit out in the woods and just listen to animals and stuff like that. But in the daytime, I go out in the woods and I feel so good. When I was in South Carolina, because I had so many snakes—I had three hundred snakes. And people didn’t want you walking past their house. Like now, now you’ve got a White man out there, a lot of people working in this building won’t park near me because I used to catch snakes and throw ‘em in the van, you know. [Laughter] I don’t know what it is.

Like a lady asked me the other day, she say, “Why are there so many snakes outside of Building Services?” I said, “They visit they relatives.” And lady said, “You wrong.” I said, “No, I’m not wrong, you got two legged snakes just like you got their mother, crawling on their belly.” I said, “Two legged snakes can think, that’s the only difference.” That’s not wrong, that’s the truth. Well you got people that’s over there just like a snake. I’ll find good in something before I find bad in it. I used to work with runaways in South Carolina, and kids that had problems in school. You can always find good in some people. Some people, you can’t find good in them. Some people, there’s two ways that you can talk to people. In a good way and in a bad way. Some people understand plain English, some





people you have to curse at for them to understand what you saying. And then it’s a third way, you can talk real slow like they’re retarded. You go over and talk slow, that’s playing on a person. When you tell them something and they don’t understand what you said, you break it down slow and then they get mad.

	W:	Retirement.



	G:	Retirement? It could be done. A lot of people retire and die because they worked all their life. They retire, they think they gonna go home and rest and don’t do nothing and you gotta—When you retire, you got to stay going. It’s like getting old, when you get old, the older you get, there’s muscles that you don’t use and then you’re creeping along, creeping along. You sleep, you gotta keep active.

When I was active when I was younger, like when I lived in South Carolina with my first wife, I was active, active, active. Then I didn’t have a lot of things bother me. Then when I came here, then I didn’t get so active. Then all these things start popping up because I wasn’t being active, I wasn’t eating the same things, I was eating stuff that wasn’t good for me. Then I figured hey, just like when I was young, my parents didn’t let me eat a whole lot of candy. [Laughter] So when I got grown I started eating a whole lot of candy. So, when I got punched in my jaw when I was playing basketball, it broke my mandible. But then a lot of people say, “Yeah, well, you know old people shouldn’t play with young people.” I said, “Yeah, but if young people know how to play ball, they wouldn’t be jealous of old people and have to knock ‘em in they jaw to slow ‘em up.” [Laughter]

	W:	Mr. Kenneth Jerome Green, this has been a great interview. I want to thank you for it. I always like to close my interview by giving the person who is sitting and





honoring us with this contribution and gift to say what you want to say. So I’m just going to set this in front of you and you close it out.

	G:	I know this has been long. I can talk forever. The only one I talk to is my animals, you know. My landlord, now, but they don’t like the same kind of things I like.

These are special people, they come from Maine. When I met them, they didn’t treat me like I was a—how do I say it? They didn’t treat me like I was second class. And they met me, and they seen the things I do, “Well, damn he’s strange, he’s different.” They said, “Well, what kind of job you got? You scrub floors?” That’s the first thing White people think when they first meet you. You know that you scrub floors. Like now, I know a lot of people. Some people think I’ve been here forever. I haven’t been here forever; I’ve only been here thirteen years but a lot of people think they’ve known me forever and ever. And it’s just when people meet me, they remember. I don’t know if it’s because I catch the snakes, because a lot of people know I catch snakes. I know the people in South Carolina, people point out their window, “Don’t let him see. See that man right there walking? Remember him.” And people will come up to you and say, “Yeah, you the snake man.” And you don’t even know these people. They was hiding someplace else and somebody else showed them. I don’t feel that snakes are—I just think snakes are just another animal and like they talk about “Well, they say in the Bible you’re supposed to step on the serpent’s head.” A snake is not a serpent. A serpent is in the water. A serpent is poisonous. The serpent that they’re talking about in the Bible is not the same serpent, the same snake that’s here on land. This is maybe generations from that animal, but the doctors that





take care of people, on their insignia, they have a snake. So, a snake is not—I’m not saying that I’m not into God a whole lot, because a lot of things I do on instinct rather than think about it. But when I was wholeheartedly into God and doing things for the Lord’s sake, I still had this thing for snakes. A lot of people say, “Well if you get it in your garden do this and do that, the snakes disappear.” But the snakes have never disappeared. I don’t think snakes are bad. Snakes were put here for a reason, to kill rodents. We ain’t got no pied pipers. All animals here for a reason. And everything in life, man, animals, prayers, birds, everything. The life cycle, it goes around, everything is here. And a lot of people, when they find out I catch snakes, they shudder. They’re afraid. I don’t think it’s a bad thing. I like chess, I like snakes, I like plants, I like animals, I like people. I mean, I don’t get mad. I get mad at people, but if I get to think about it, it’ll go away. I read the Bible every night and day, I know a lot that’s in the Bible, I just try not to do anything to make a person wanna hurt me. Because if you don’t take much for a person, just like the way you look, they wanna hurt you. When I was in Chicago, I had to carry a gun. People didn’t like you because of the way you look, stuff like that. Before I let you hurt me, I’m gonna hurt you. That’s just from growing up. I spent thirty-something years in Chicago, born and raised there, there is no fear, you know. So then you learn fear from seeing other people interact with their kids, teaching their kids. Like my landlord’s wife, they just had a baby. Lightning, thunder, she jump and she got the baby in her arms. That’s gonna make the baby every time the baby hears thunder, it jumps, thinks there’s something to fear. You can’t fear lightning. It doesn’t do no good, because if that





lightning strike, I don’t care where you at. That lightning come from God. I don’t care where you at, that lightning gon’ hit you. So all that nonsense they got when I was working building services about stop working because it’s thundering and lighting, I said, “How you know it’s lightening outside? You just hear the thunder.” It’s miles and miles away. Stop working, if you stop working the lighting won’t hit you. If the lightning gon’ hit you, it’s gon’ hit you. Lightning come from God, there’s nothing you can do to stop that lightening from hitting you if it’s meant for it to happen. That’s it. Good to meet you brother.

	W:	Thanks again.





[End of interview] Transcribed by: Abby Lovett

Audit-Edited by: Sandra Romero, July 14, 2021 Final-Edited by: Sandra Romero, July 15, 2021