AAHP 651; Lee and Cunningham; Page 10















Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfbSamuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 651 Vivian Lee and Arthur Cunningham Joel Buchanan Archive (JBA)

Interviewed by Megan Cannan and Corinne Futch on April 29, 2019 66 minutes | 30 pages



Abstract: Vivian Lee and Arthur Cunningham reflect on their childhood and adolescence in mid- twentieth century Florida. Their experiences dealing with segregation and institutional racism as African-Americans are detailed, however they each recall many joyous moments in their communities among the harshness of society. Cunningham additionally describes his life as a Black man in both the South and the North, indicating the two are not as different as they’d like to think. Lee goes into detail about her adult and senior life, demonstrating contentment with her journey and the struggle to come to terms with age. Their values of grit and appreciation for life shine through, despite all the struggles they were forced to endure as African-Americans in a period of extreme discrimination.



Keywords: [African American; Racism; Family; Florida; Education; Civil Rights]









































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 651

Interviewee: Vivian Lee & Arthur Cunningham Interviewer: Megan Cannan & Corinne Futch Date of Interview: April 29, 2019





	MC:	Hello, my name’s Meg Cannan and I’m here today with my classmate Corinne, and we are interviewing—

	L:	Vivian Lee.



	MC:	And—



	AC:	Arthur Cunningham.



	MC:	Okay, so let’s start with, where were you born? L:	Corinne, I didn’t hear her last name.

	F:	Oh, Corinne Futch. L:	F-U-T-C-H?

	F:	Yes ma’am.



	L:	Okay. There was a Judge Futch here. Do you remember? F:	Oh, that might’ve been my grandfather.

	L:	Really?



	F:	I don’t know. I hope he— yeah, I hope that’s not the right one.



	L:	When I first came, he was living here. He was sitting on the bench. I was born in Live Oak, Florida, which is Suwannee County, right on I-10 but when I was born in 1939, there was no I-10. I lived in Jacksonville— at nine months old, my mom and dad moved there. So, we would go highway ninety, U.S.-90, to get back and forth, or either catch the train. The train was very, very, very popular, there was no Greyhound Bus at the time, I was so young, but I know we always caught the train to get to Live Oak to visit my dad’s mother and my mom’s parents. I lived in Jacksonville





until I finished seventh grade at junior high school, that’s what it was called and on Davis Street. I attended Darnell Cookman from grades one through six. And, then my family went separate ways and my mother moved back with her parents so that’s why I moved back to Jacksonville— I mean back to Live Oak. I attended Darnell, no, Douglas High School in Live Oak, graduating in 1957. So, I’ve been out of high school, this year will be sixty two years. And, that’s where I was born. Tells you all about— I had two brothers, one of whom is deceased now as of 2004, and my baby brother, I was the first child, my baby brother lives in St. Petersburg, Florida, his name is Herbert Davis. That’s it for me. Art, you want to move on— join, or you want to do yours separately?

	AC:	Doesn’t matter, whatever fits here.



	F:	Okay, first I’d like to ask you a little bit more about Live Oak? So, what did your parents do for a living?

	L:	Domestic— my mom was a homemaker, my dad worked at Sears as an errand or whatever back then, and my dad was very bright. He could fix anything and he understood a lot and my family, we had study time and whenever it was PTA, my mom would go. My dad didn’t but he helped us during our study time, we always sat down for dinner at the end of the day. Seemingly ideal, but my mom just stayed home and kept the house and the children. When my dad came home he helped her with everything because she was not always capable of being extended too far. Three children, stair steps, and having to do the meals and wash the clothes,





there were no washing machines, just rub board kind of thing, and my dad would help with all of that. And he helped with the cooking, but she was marvelous with keeping things clean and in order, she was meant to be a housewife. She wasn’t meant to work outside the home, and so, wish I could say it was just euphoria but lots of stress and stressors during then, and that was why they went their separate ways. And my mom moved back to Live Oak, I think it would’ve been about 1952, thereabouts when I was thirteen, August when— I don’t know if you’ve heard of the Ruby McCollum case?

	F:	Yeah.



	L:	That happened that summer my mother moved back. And I remember the fear being so thick, you could almost cut in the broad daylight— my granddad insisted they close church in the middle of church. Everybody had to go home and we lived maybe a block or two from the church and my granddad would not let us even look out of the window, and the shades were drawn and he was so afraid the Ku Klux Klan was going to ride through and just start shooting people. I will always remember that fear that was experienced in my— where I was. I didn’t know the lady— [Phone ringing] I didn’t know what to, this is the daughter—

	F:	So when and where were you born?



	AC:	I was born in Marion County, in a little town just south of here called Santos. And— in 1929. There were six of us, and I’m the youngest of six. When I was six, seven months old, my mom allowed me to go and live





with my aunt who was my dad’s sister who had no kids, and wanted kids. And so, I wasn’t the healthiest, as I understand I had a toe that had a sore on it and that toe just wouldn’t get well. My mom had to work, my dad was ill. And so, my aunt took me because I was youngest and as I understand it, my older siblings weren’t the best caregivers. They would eat my food and all that sort of thing, anyway I went to live with my aunt who lived in a different community just west of here called Jerusalem. And she kept me, well she raised me, as a matter of fact, never did go back to live with my siblings. But, because it was such a small community, we communicated frequently. And so I went to school in Jerusalem, then went to high school at Howard Academy. I should say that my aunt’s husband could not read or write, but he had a keen interest in seeing that I wouldn’t suffer the same fate that he experienced. I should also say that he had the unique ability that his siblings did not have, all of them went to school, except him. He had to work to send them to school, but materially, he accumulated more than they did. They often had to come to him to borrow money and resources and that. But—

	MC:	How did he earn his money?



	AC:	Working in the orange grove. That was the big thing in this area for Black males, orange groves and watermelons. And so, that’s what he did. And he was the one in his family, and in the community, who had a car and having a car was really a big thing. But, he was the one that had a car and had many other material things that other people in the community didn’t





have, but how he managed to do that— I don’t know. I just— is a sad thought, we would go to church on Sunday and he couldn’t read or write but he’d hold him book in front of him and it would be bottom side up, but he sang as loud as everyone else. But, so, you know people wouldn’t really know that he couldn’t read or write, as a matter fact, it’s a sad thought, but when I moved to Minnesota, he came to Minnesota all by himself and I don’t know how he managed to do it because he couldn’t read or write. But, anyway, we moved from Jerusalem to Ocala on 40 as a matter of fact, and that’s where I spent much of my time growing up, on 40.

	F:	And you mentioned you attended Howard Academy? AC:	Yes.

	F:	What was that experience like? Did you have any teachers you were specifically fond of?

	AC:	Yes. I was fond of all of them, really. You understand this is in the [19]40s, so Black kids walked to school and White kids rode to school and of course we didn’t have new textbooks, we used the textbooks that the White kids had used and many times they were torn and that sort of thing. But, anyway, I was fond of all my teachers, really. One teacher by the name of Mrs. Potts, she was a strict disciplinarian, I remember she used to embarrass you if you didn’t study and she’d ask you to stand— I don’t know if they do that in school anymore— and give us whatever, and if you didn’t know it, she’d say, “Boy, why don’t you study your lesson?” to really





embarrass you! But, some or another, when students went away, and they came back, they always looked up Mrs. Potts. We had a teacher that taught, I think it was shop, and he’d always paddle the boys, it was all boys I think, yeah I think it was all boys, and he had a paddle about that long and he would paddle, “Alright—“ they call it the board, “get the board, man, get the board!” And they would get the board and they could be, three or four guys he’s gonna paddle and he’d stand behind them and he’d aim at one and hit the other. And those who weren’t being paddled, well it was funny! But, the person being paddled, it wasn’t quite so funny. But anyway, it got to be almost a game. I was disciplined, I think, once. I was eating peanuts in class, and I wasn’t supposed to be eating. As I was eating them, I thought I was putting the shells in my pocket but I was— they were falling on the floor. And, the guys in front of me laughed and the teacher asked, “Why you laughing?” And he wouldn’t tell her, so she came over and had both of us stand up, and when I stood up, all the shells fell on the floor. So, she said, “We’re gonna send you home,” and my parents really didn’t play that. But, anyway, I was sent home and my parents brought me back the next day, and that was it. That was the only problem I had in high school. We graduated, I think it was sixty two in my graduating class and I was the class chaplain at the time.

	MC:	What was it like being class chaplain?



	AC:	Oh, it was— I really don’t remember, but except, to say, that I was proud to be a part of the officers of the class, but other than that I don’t





remember much about it. I do remember that we had a club known as the Mink club, I don’t remember much about that either except that I was president of the Minks club that was all boys. A lot of distinction was made then, more so than now, the differences in male or female, so a lot of things were male and female, that’s just the way it was like in the shop class that I mentioned. They were all boys and the girls had— I don’t remember what they called theirs, but anyway, it was a clear distinction between the roles of males and females even in high school.

	F:	So the girls weren’t offered a shop class? They had a different class instead?

	AC:	No, they took Home Economics, I believe it was called. And they did sewing, and that sort of thing. Yeah, yeah.

	F:	Did you use the skills from your shop class? Did you ever make anything?



	AC:	No. I wasn’t that kind of person. I was more into the Minks club that I mentioned, I was into organizations kind of stuff, but making something— I appreciated— oh, we had what we called DCT, and I’m not sure what it meant now, the “T” was a training, but anyway you spent a certain amount of time in class and then you could get a job in the community. And I took advantage of that, I had a job in a grocery—you were paid, but I took a job at a grocery store and a small appliance store. As I said, you went to school a part of the time and then on certain days and certain hours you had a job off-campus, which you were paid for. But, that was a part of— that was an extension of your training in class. And of course, the idea





was to have you work off campus in the kind of thing that you would hope to get into once you were out of school. Well, that didn’t really work out.

What we really saw it as an opportunity to earn extra money, and that worked out really well.

	F:	Did you spend your money on future schooling? Or did you do something fun with it? Like, what did you do in your free time while you were in high school? What would you do for fun with your friends?

	AC:	It’s a long time ago, I have to think very hard. F:	That’s okay!

	AC:	What did I do with my friends?



	F:	Did you visit any specific places in the community maybe? AC:	Well, going to church was a big thing then.

	F:	What was the name of your church?



	AC:	Jerusalem, Missionary Baptist Church. Didn’t go to the movies a whole lot, as a matter of fact, very little. And of course, the movies were, I think, as I remember there’s one in Ocala and that was upstairs. The Blacks had to go upstairs to the movie and of course, the Whites went downstairs, and of course the only time I would go to the movie would be perhaps on the weekend. The weekend was a big thing because we didn’t do much during the week but lived in the country, and when we came to town, that’s a big, big celebration. You get to see people that you haven’t for a bit, as you know very much about Ocala, but the Broadway that’s there now is owned by businesses, and particularly White businesses. At that time, it was all





Black businesses and of course, to come to town and go to the store and buy pop and ice cream and that was really, really big. And of course, interestingly enough, people that came from Jerusalem settled on the west part of Broadway and people from Santos, where I was born although I didn’t live out there, they settled on the further up but south of Broadway. And of course, that mixed a bit, too, but as I said, that’s the time you got to see your friends, your relatives, whatever, on the weekend, that was really a big thing. I don’t know that goin’ to the movie was such a big thing— outside sports, baseball and that, were big but at that time you couldn’t go to a baseball game on Sunday, we didn’t do that. Sunday was strictly church, morning, noon and night.

	MC:	How far was the walk to town? AC:	How far was the walk?

	MC:	Or did you drive with your uncle? AC:	Drive.

	MC:	Okay, that’s good. AC:	Too far!

	L:	Too far to walk! MC:	Yeah, I would think.

	AC:	Although, there are people who did walking because well, they just walked more then, there wasn’t as many cars. In many cases, people could not afford cars.

	F:	You do what you have to do.





	AC:	Yes, that’s what you have to do. And of course, as I mentioned, Black kids walked to school— which way did you come when you came here? Did you come from downtown?

	L:	75.



	F:	75, yeah.



	AC:	I was gonna give you an idea of where we walked to school every morning. You came 75… I’m guessing three and a half miles, I guess. But, we did it without realizing how far we were walking so rain or shine, that’s how we got to school.

	F:	Rain.



	AC:	Yeah. And of course, White kids would wave at us as they were riding to school.

	L:	On the bus.



	AC:	Yeah! And of course, strangely enough, it was so calming that we thought that was the way it was supposed to be.

	L:	Didn’t question a thing.



	MC:	Your experience was similar?



	L:	Very. I’m duplicate, except we did not have a car. The first car I ever owned, I was living here in 1967. But his family, as he grew up as a boy, they had a car so that made them a bit more affluent. Then where my family— and I heard you ask, what did he do with the money? Well whatever money you earn, for my situation, needed it for things at school, our food even, and so forth. That may not be true with him—





	MC:	Did you have a job too while you were going through school?



	L:	I had a job in the summer, there were no lady jobs, I worked in the field like pickin’ peas and it was very— a lot of fun in the summer for tobacco and Live Oak, during the time they had, grew tobacco on these big farms that White people own and they would pick you up and take you and I was the stringer, I didn’t go in the field. The men did the fieldwork, at the barn they would bring the tobacco and we would string it on a stick and the men would hang it in the barn and it would get cured, and I would make money for my school clothes like that.

	AC:	And see now, I never had that experience. L:	Did you have watermelon?

	AC:	Oh, yeah. Watermelons, yes.



	L:	They grew watermelons here. You worked in the watermelon field?



	AC:	Yes, I did. That was hard work, too. How the trucks would drive down the road in the watermelon field and you had someone on the ground, at one place would go down and cut the watermelon from the vine. They’d cut it and they’d turn it up so that the light part was up letting you know that that’s ready to be picked up then someone would come along and pick that watermelon up and throw it up to the guys on the truck. And he’d place it down and the truck didn’t stop, you got to be fast as long as you can keep throwing the watermelons up as the truck is going. And of course once the truck is full, the truck goes as a bigger truck pops out on the road, they couldn’t go in the watermelon field because they would get





stuck. So a bigger truck was out on the highway and that smaller truck takes the watermelon out to the bigger truck and then they trucked away, but watermelon in the summer and some oranges in the winter, that was the big thing. That’s where many Black men, especially— well, that’s how my uncle made a living, watermelons, well not watermelons but oranges. That’s where they had these big orange bags on the backs, as they cut they just cut and throw the oranges in that bag on the back and when that’s full they come down off the ladder and put them in a box on the ground and they go back up and they were paid by the number of boxes of oranges they picked per day. Now, as I mentioned, my uncle could not read or write but when he came home at night, he’d have the same number of tickets and he’d have us count those tickets to determine how many boxes of oranges that he had picked. And if it was more than the boss thought he should, the boss would take that and just give him what he thought he should have.

	L:	Did he get paid every day? AC:	No, no.

	L:	See, we got paid every day. Yeah, he had to work for a week before he would get paid.

	AC:	Yeah, yeah. Well, this was a big company, oranges and watermelons were big in this area during that time. That was one of the biggest.

	L:	We didn’t have oranges. We did have watermelons up there that my brothers worked, but all of the money was needed. There was nothing to





save. Nothing to put back, you needed it for day to day existence and so. I’ve never felt badly about having to work except for the hot sun, so I don’t do sun now. People lying in the sun, I’ve done that! I’ve had enough of that, and that was what helped me to know I did not want to do that the rest of my life. Did it help you to have to work hard?

	AC:	I knew that I didn’t want to get into this watermelon business. L:	A lifelong— no dream to be a watermelon!

	AC:	No, I didn’t want to do that. But, you asked an interesting question, what did I do with the money? I really don’t— it wasn’t enough to make a big difference. It just gave you the feeling of earning your own money, but it wasn’t enough to make a big difference. And I know I gave some of it to my mom, but what I really did was, I really don’t know. But, I just felt good about having a job and going to work because it taught me a lot because, come to think of it, the other job I had was a chauffeur, I wasn’t that old, I was still in high school, but this guy was wealthy, and I can never forget how he wanted me to drive his— he had a new dodge, and he wanted me to drive it and I remember at one point, I was alone in this car and I wanted to show off, show my friends how I’m driving this new car and I came out in the Black community, just driving. Wasn’t supposed to be there, but just showing off!

	L:	You didn’t have an accident? AC:	No, no, no!

	L:	Thank goodness! Oh wow.





	MC:	That would’ve ruined that joyride. L:	Yeah. Still be paying!

	AC:	Yes, yes, yes. I remember on this job with this electrical appliance place, I was to fix toasters and electric irons and that, and I would repair them and deliver them. And I used to drive a three-wheel scooter and I used to have so much fun with that because I was the only particularly Black high school kid that was driving a scooter! And I’d always, when I deliver or go to pick up an appliance, I would always take the long way around so I could show as many people as I could.

	L:	Yeah, you had a good— taught a good work ethic. My granddaddy taught me, where even if I was in the field, I remember needing to pay for my class ring so I took off from school one day to hoe tobacco that was planted and I was chopping the man’s weeds up because I didn’t know how to hoe. I’m really not an outdoor person and so the man brought me home at noon and my granddaddy said, Vippy is what he called me, “Vippy, he let you go?” I said, “No, Granddaddy—“ I lied, I said, “he brought everybody home, that man brought me home because I was chopping his plants up,” and Granddaddy must’ve known I was making it up. “Whenever you go to work,” his thing to me was, “give the man his due. Give what you’re being paid for, do the best that you can at what you’re doing so that you’ll have good report wherever you work.” And that stayed with me and that’s what I hear— it was good to work! I didn’t mind working, I wanted to generate my own money, even at sixteen, seventeen,





so I would not be a burden on my grandparents and my mother and so forth. So that’s something I learned from my grandfather, “Give the man his due.” The man would be the White man, that’s who you’re working for. “Do your best at whatever you’re doing.”

	AC:	And that’s what DCT was attempting to teach us young kids, that it’s important to be honest and give the man his due. And, when you’re trying to do that or put in an environment whereby you need to be responsible, you need to have integrity, and all of that was taught to us in the classroom, but we had to put it in practice on these jobs that we had after school and I remember all three or four of them that I had, never will forget the experiences that I had, two grocery stores, one electrical appliance, and one other.

	L:	Did you carry that through to your work life and your adult life? AC:	Yes, yes.

	L:	I did, too! I didn’t need anybody watching me, I knew what my duties were. And I was gonna do that, I didn’t need no supervisor hovering. You knew what to do and you just did it without being made.

	AC:	Yep. I felt so honored that the owner of this store would trust me to go and pick up an appliance, fix it, and deliver it. I just felt so good about that. It was—

	L:	You had to get the money for it, paid for, having repaired it, didn’t you have to collect funds?





	AC:	Yeah, yeah. And some of it was, I believe it was charged, I can’t remember, because some of it I didn’t collect for and there was— and I can’t remember what the payment—

	L:	All of your clients were White? AC:	Oh, yeah.

	L:	Oh, you didn’t pick up any toasters from Black people.



	AC:	No. I remember going almost always East of downtown and that’s where the White area was, in East Ocala.

	F:	Did the business allow Black clients or no?



AC:  Uh, yeah! Yeah, it’s just that, I don’t know, Blacks didn’t have— well, I’m sure some of them had electric irons and toasters and that sort of thing, but I don’t ever remember picking up or delivering an electrical appliance to a Black customer.

L:  When you say they allowed Blacks— people would come to the store and bring things, bring their appliances in?

	AC:	Yeah. They’d come and bring them, but I’d also go and pick them up and—

	L:	But they were always White people. Didn’t any Black people bring anything?

	AC:	I don’t remember.



	L:	But you say Blacks were allowed? But none came?



	AC:	Well, it was an appliance store just like any other store. But, I don’t remember any Blacks ever coming. They may have—





	L:	And you not have been there. AC:	But, yeah, yeah.

	L:	This was 19—?



	AC:	[40]? It was in the [19]40s. L:	Middle of Jim Crow.

	AC:	Yeah. Yeah, yeah.



	L:	Well, the thing about me and Jim Crow, even when the [19]60s came and they were sitting in, I never sat in. I grew up like you, not thinking anything was wrong with it— I hate myself for that now, because I know it wasn’t right but I didn’t feel as though I wanted to confront anybody about it because where I lived was happy, you know, in my environment of people, I didn’t regret where I was.

	AC:	I didn’t give much thought to whether it was right or wrong. L:	It still was.

	AC:	Yeah, I knew that I walked to school while the White kids rode to school. I know that the textbooks that we used, some of the pages were torn out and that. I knew that at the— the athletic equipment that we used, I knew that it had been used by White kids [Inaudible 35:32], understanding that our parents paid the same amount of taxes as everybody else, sometimes perhaps more. But, somehow or another, I never gave a great deal of thought to what was wrong with this. As I looked back on it now, I wonder “What in the world could I have been thinking about?” But, never gave





much thought— that’s just the way it was. I remember something about, I think, McCrory’s five and dime store.

	L:	That’s before their time. They haven’t heard of McCrory’s. We had one in Live Oak, too.

	AC:	That was a large chain. I don’t know if that was a— was that a drug—?



	L:	F-W Woolworth’s. It was, like a five and dime, yeah. Not a drug— the drug store was, what, the same—

	AC:	Not Bittings.



	L:	No, but I’m saying— what was the— Walgreens existed in your time, did it?

	AC:	I don’t remember Walgreens.



L:  I think we had it in Jacksonville when I was there, not in Live Oak, it was small business owners and the town who had the drug store. Did you go to the doctor much?

MC: Were you born in a hospital? L:   I had a midwife.

	AC:	I had a midwife, too. My grandmother was a midwife.



	L:	My brothers were born in hospital in Jacksonville. Brusters, which used to be there, on Jefferson Street. But I had a midwife, they told me the stork brought me to— [Laughter] I believed it! It was [Inaudible 37:27] and they were so jubilant and it messed up my mind up to this day.

	MC:	Still kind of believe that?





	L:	Yeah! Well I know this, but I was so excited about how excited they were that I came, made me so special. But anyway, life has been good, you think?

	AC:	Yeah. Life’s been, really good. Sometimes I wonder how people survived in a dual standard environment.

	MC:	When did you start to see it really change? Was it when you— was it any different, too, when you moved to Minnesota?

	AC:	Was it different?



	MC:	Mmhm.



	AC:	Yes, it was different, in a different kind of way. In Minnesota, people were— well, so many people had not been exposed to a double standard that they— I think the thought was there but the opportunity to practice it openly was not there. And so, what Black people like to say, that people in the North are just as prejudice as people in the South except they have a more sophisticated way of demonstrating it. Or they hide it. Where, and if you have— if you are a Southerner who is converted, is much more dependable, likeable, and everything else than a Northerner because Whites in the South will tell you where they are. They don’t like you and they will say so. White people in the North will say they like you but they don’t, but they have a sophisticated way of hiding it. And so, Blacks like to say that they would much rather have a converted Southern White person than they have a Northerner because Northerners are hypocritical and Southerners down right redneck prejudice, they will tell you so. You don’t





have to wonder about— but once they’re converted, they’re converted. And so, I find that to be true even now. You was gon’ say something?

	L:	I was gonna kind of challenge something you said about— but I didn’t know if you were talking about Whites, Blacks, but most of the Blacks who were in Minnesota were transplants who had moved that way during the Migration time. So they knew what the double standard was and appreciated the seeming absence of it in the Minnesota area even though it was there subtly, it was not as blatant as it was. But they— I don’t think there were many Blacks who were native to Minnesota.

	AC:	Not many. Very few.



	L:	Or not native even to New York and all of that, and especially in our age group. They would— I think we started to move up and now we’re coming back. Coming back this way. Miss Cunningham has a brother who has the Joel Buchanan hand in the files, what do I want to call it? I didn’t go to it, they did a big indoctrination— a program bringing him into Samuel Proctor library back in the 1990s, was it? And Joel Buchanan headed that up for his work here in Ocala, his brother’s work here in Ocala. So, the name, that Cunningham name in this area, kind of outstanding in the Black community, and White community, as well. Here are two brothers who were small businessmen and very well known throughout the community and the one who lived the longest is the one who is in the library at Samuel Proctor Oral History library. But it wasn’t just oral history, was it?





	AC:	No, no. I’ve been putting off to go and view it. I went— I wasn’t living here at the time, but I went for the, it wasn’t a celebration—

	L:	I don’t know what to call it— initiation?



	AC:	I don’t know. But, anyway, they were supposed to have it as part of the museum, they have a display, I guess, of— my brother’s a businessman in Ocala, as I said, I’d been putting off to go, as a matter of fact as a result of this symposium, I met the lady who was in charge of it and she invited me to come and take a look at it, and I haven’t done it yet but I’m going to.

	MC:	And you’ll have a tour guide! This woman.



	AC:	Yeah, yeah. You know, I should tell you something [Inaudible 43:17], when I was growing up here there was a population of Seminole Indians and I’ve asked several people what happened to them. They used to be out in Silver Springs and the men wore dresses, women had the babies on their backs, and they wore their hair to the front and their hair was like the [Inaudible 43:54} on a cap. And of course, they weren’t allowed to drink alcohol, I guess someone thought they, kind of, go crazy when they get—

	MC:	Was it their choice, like within their community that they didn’t drink alcohol, or?

	AC:	No. The White power strokes did not want them to have alcohol because alcohol had a negative effect on their behavior more so than with most people. But, on weekends, they would come down on Broadway and mingle with the Black people. And there they got as much alcohol as they wanted. [Laughter]. So that got to be quite a thing, so I’ve asked several





people since I’ve been back, “What happened?” No one seems to really know what happened to the Seminole Indians.

	L:	I think Ocala’s a Seminole name. It’s a Native American name. The town is named by, or after Native Americans. I don’t know if it’s Seminole, but it is a Native American name.

	AC:	Santos may be, too. Yeah, yeah.



	L:	Even when I came as late as [19]67, there would be American Indians.



Well, that’s not right. What is the politically correct word?



	F:	They alternate, it just depends. So, either way you’re good, yeah.



	L:	Well, they would be all around especially in Silver Springs, there was evidence. And then out in Orange Spring, there was an area that pointed down a road, they lived in that area and had celebrations frequently. But so far as now, I don’t hear a thing like you, don’t hear anything at all.

	AC:	They would be barefooted, too. At that time, we thought that thirty two degrees was cold, but they were— did not wear shoes.

	L:	I can’t attest to that, I didn’t see that. I was— when did you leave the area?

	AC:	[19]47.



	L:	Okay, this is [19]67.



	F:	Why did you decide to leave?



	AC:	Well, I left and went to Paine College in Augusta, Georgia. And I decided that I needed to— well, I just thought that was the thing to do. So, I left and spent some time with my uncle in Grand Rapids, Michigan. And then I





decided I was going to work first, for a year, and then go to Paine College. I don’t think I worked for a year, but anyway, went to Paine College and I was going to leave college and go in service and accumulate the money that I needed to finish. So, I went to Paine, went in service in the Air Force, and went to Japan and Korea and then, came back and was discharged in Minnesota. And that’s where I spent the rest of my life, about sixty years in Minnesota. So, I enjoyed the time that I spent— [Phone ringing].

	L:	So I pick up when he has to talk— [Laughing]. F:	So why did you move to Ocala?

	L:	Oh, I moved to Ocala following my husband. I’ve never not lived in Florida, I was not going to go so far and get hungry and not have family. I needed to be close to somebody helping me in the event that I did, but my husband, who is now deceased, was called to pastor a church here, Greater Hopewell Missionary Baptist Church and he stayed there for forty three years. He didn’t ever go [Inaudible 48:48] until, it just went on and on. I thought it would be like five years! And it just kept going, I raised my children here and I have two girls and I’ve been here ever since. And I thought, once he left, “I don’t have a reason to be— I don’t have relatives here,” and so I still stayed. At three years after he died, I married him. But that didn’t work, we stayed married three and half years, it didn’t go well so we’re just good friends, without any benefits, just good friends now.

And I’m still here. Both my children live other places— my older daughter





lives in Live Oak, right on the property where I was born, and my younger daughter lives in Albany, Georgia, so I’m just kind of like, here waiting.

You know what for, what comes after a while, so, I don’t know.



	MC:	Are you still involved with the church that your husband pastored at?



	L:	No, I’m not. I stayed there a year after he pastored, when I married him, he went to another church and I went with him. But, I don’t know what I’m waiting for other than, the younger daughter is having me a party in June, which is my birthday. She sent me the list yesterday of invitees and I told her, “I don’t want a party,” I was in the fishbowl for forty-three years, I don’t want people looking at me anymore! And so she got very upset, and said, “I can’t please you, whatever, you always have to have it your way!” So, that was Friday and I said, “Okay, let me just—” my other daughter said “Just be quiet, she’ll get okay,” and last night she sent me a list of invitees and told me to review it, add addresses and so forth, where they need to be and get it back to me by Tuesday afternoon, which I said, “Yes, ma’am.” So, I’m going to have a party even though I don’t want an eightieth birthday party, but I’ll enjoy it, I’m sure it will be something.

	MC:	And both of your daughters will go? L:	Oh, yeah! Yeah!

	MC:	So that’ll be something, yeah.



L:  My grands, I have great-grands even. But, nobody lives— well, I have one who lives here, a granddaughter but her mom is like— my first great-grand lives in Tampa, he’s going to help M-C the party, he’s thirteen, along with





my brother who lives in St. Pete. We’re good family, my older daughter has all the children, she had four grown boys, one of whom has died, so I have three grand boys living and each of them has a child, so I have three great grands. Its good living, good living.

	F:	Do you ever have family reunions?



	L:	We have. Sometimes we go to my brother’s. He has a daughter, like forty plus, and she likes for us to come and congregate and sometimes we go to my brother’s house, then sometimes they come here and I host them. But, we don’t go to the next generation or my children, it’s mostly just here. So, my daughter will probably have it down at CF and the Weber Center, I think that’s where we’ll be. Eighty years old and I don’t know how I got here! I’m still shocked. How did this happen? I don’t feel eighty, I feel still silly-billy, which is what I am. Now he was very solemn and so, and I was the silly-billy and I still am, and with him gone, I get sillier and sillier. I think, “When am I gonna get serious about being on the planet?” So, I came in [19]67 and have been here ever since, and that’s it about me. I worked at Santa Fe as an English professor for thirteen years, that was the apex of my career, I loved it. And I commuted a part of that time that I lived on Northwest 23rd. And my husband had open heart surgery so I stopped going back and forth, I mean I stopped living over there, I just started staying here until I retired, to make sure he was taken care of.

	F:	Have you been at this house since you moved? Or is this a newer house



to you?





	L:	We came in 2001 here. The bulk of the time we lived in what’s called the Parsonage, I don’t know if you know that word, it’s where the church maintains residence for the minister. So for thirty years we were in the Parsonage, which is over right behind the church and that was my contention, “Suppose something happens to you, I won’t have anywhere to stay!” When he had open heart surgery, he’s in the hospital and he says, “Let’s build our own house,” I had done everything I could think of to make him say that, none of it worked. And then when God was ready, he said it and we built here and moved. So he had nine good years, we did right here.

	MC:	You got to build your dream home.



	L:	Well, it was a home. A place I knew I could stay if something— rather than, I couldn’t preach or do anything, they hired him, not me! So, it worked out really, really well and I learned to trust him, not make it happen. I’m about forcing things, I want it my way, and when I came to realize that isn’t working for me, so I learned to lean in and be more comfortable waiting and being patient. So, it’s been a good life, that was a good congregation, they still are a good congregation of people. And he’s a very nice person, I just have to have my way and so, a real man is not gonna let you run over him. And I know this about him, so we got good friends and that works better. And he’s very healthy for ninety, wouldn’t you say? So much— almost ninety, I can’t believe it, what? You must be kidding me! I don’t know if you have any other questions.





	MC:	Did you go to college, too?



	L:	I went to Florida Memorial, which used to be in St. Augustine but it’s now in Miami, and they left [19]68, I graduated [19]67. I had my children and marriage after the fact, I did it the hard way. Everything about my life is struggle, tough and hard, so.

	MC:	Builds character.



	L:	Yeah, it helps me, I tell you. I would sit— I had a three month old baby, which is the one in Albany, she would catch a cab every day with the same guy, go to daycare, and he would pick her up and bring her back every day and that was three dollars per week. He was dependable, trustworthy, he wasn’t trying to sexually abuse her, anything like that, and that worked for me for the three, four years I was in St. Augustine. And by the time I graduated, he— my husband— came here in [19]66, so we had a place where he wanted, he was doing what he wanted to do, full time ministry. So I had to learn to be the first lady and all this, but it’s all good, I’ve had a beautiful life. Wonderful. Journey is just fantastic, you learn so much along the way. I have, it’s not an easy journey but you can’t turn it loose, you got to hold on, and when I graduated Florida Memorial, I think I taught three years and then I took a year off and went to UF on a stipend for the master’s. My biggest goal was to work at a two-year college. And I got to do that, [19]88! I got hired, and I was “What? You’ve got to be kidding!” And it was beautiful there, so wonderful experience. And, like I say, when I go to work, I don’t go to short change anybody, I tell my





students, “Hey, this is what the state says I have to teach you, this is what we’re gonna do! We’re gonna cover all of this,” and then I made it exciting, I would be on my soapbox for all of those classes. And it was just rewarding to me, very rewarding to be able to change lives, to touch lives, to make a difference, so, I’m glad I have had this journey. I don’t ever complain, really.

	AC:	Sorry, sorry! [Laughter].



	L:	I didn’t make up anything. I told the whole story about us having been married—

	AC:	Did you?



	L:	We’re better as— [Laughter]. I don’t really tell [Inaudible 58:32]! MC:	They told us a lot about that!

	L:	And I told him, “We’re better friends!” We could be husband— both of us, because we’re kind of like, “Ah, what is this?” So we get along much better now.

	AC:	It was a thing at the nursing homes— I’m sorry. L:	Has the hour come yet?

	MC:	It’s about there. Oh, I forgot to click start!



	F:	But it should be about an hour because the first file was eight minutes and this says fifty three minutes, so we’re a little over an hour now.

	L:	Okay, that’s funny! [Laughter]. Okay.



	MC:	I do have at least one question, if you want to stop it at an hour. So you had mentioned that you went to college in Georgia and then moved to





Minnesota, so what did you study and what was your job when you were in Minnesota?

	AC:	Well, let me tell you. I should make it clear that I did not finish college. My job in— and I’ve been just, I’ve been so blessed that the good Lord has been watching over me because I have been given opportunities that without a college degree, you normally wouldn’t get. But, I have been just wonderfully blessed and exposed to lots of opportunities. But, to get back to your question, when Lyndon Johnson was president, he introduced a thought that, I forgot what he called it, but he introduced a thought that there are many jobs that you can have, that you don’t need a college degree, and so I got in on that and was exposed to a lot of leadership and management positions that normally you would need a college degree to do. So, once I got into that environment, I just kind of stayed in that environment, and so, the assumption was, if he’s in this position, he must have a degree, so let’s [Inaudible 01:01:18] on that. And so, I have moved along through life with that kind of understanding, and so the last job that I had which I— from which I retired from, was a project manager for Honeywell, now, at the same time, I was privileged to serve on boards and commissions and all that kind of thing. Again, with the assumption that, he must have a degree, because he’s been there, so I just keep moving from one place to the other. But, stayed with Honeywell for fifteen years and then, one day, my boss had— this was during the first of the, what do they call it, cutbacks?





	L:	Reorganization. Company reorganization.



	AC:	Yeah, I guess so. And so my boss said, “We are about to eliminate your department, and we have ten packages available. And we’re giving out seven of them, and they’re three left. And here’s what’s involved, and if you want one you can have it. Now we can transfer you to another department, and all that kind of thing, and you’re salary and that will not change, but your responsibility and that will.” And, he said, “If you can afford to live for a year without a salary, from Honeywell, and not apply for workman’s comp, on unemployment compensation, that sort of thing, you can come back and work for one day, at the end of the year, and all this is yours.” And I said, “I’ll take it.” Well, I was fifty, I think I was fifty eight.

	L:	You’ve been retired a long time!



	AC:	Yeah, yeah. And so, I came back and worked for one day and that was it.



And so, that was the end of my tenure with Honeywell. But that was [Inaudible 01:04:21] good company to work for, my goodness, during the time that I worked for them, got to travel all over the country and at the same time, I was a commissioner for the Waze Control Commission in Minnesota. And so because of that, I had to— that enabled to, in addition to Honeywell travel, it enabled me to do a lot of traveling for the commission. I think I mentioned Vivian also served on the board of the National Mental Health Association, and that gave me an opportunity to do lots of travel, so between the National Mental Health Association, the Waze Control Commission, and Honeywell, that afforded me an





opportunity to do just a lot of travel and a lot of interesting experiences. And so, I met this lady, wound up back at home. Never thought I would get back here, this way—

	MC:	Full circle!



	AC:	Yeah, full circle, full circle. What else can I tell you? No, as I said, I do better with questions than I do—

	L:	Generating dialogue. AC:	Yeah, yeah.

	MC:	Well, we’ve reached that hour point. So, if you’d like, if there’s anything else you want to add, we can do it that way for the remainder.

	AC:	Anything you need to ask— anything you feel you need to ask? MC:	I feel pretty good!

	L:	I do, too. I’ve enjoyed sitting with the two of you. AC:	Yeah.

	MC:	Okay.



	L:	And fulfilling.



	MC:	Good.













[End of interview]







	Transcribed by:	Laura Tamayo, October 12, 2021





	Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, October 14, 2021 Final edited by:	Sandra Romero, October 19, 2021