AAHP 056; Eberling; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 056 Ray Eberling

African American History Project (AAHP) Interview conducted by Adam Montague on June 12, 2009

38 minutes | 23 pages



Abstract: Ray Eberling was born outside New York City in a town called Suffern, and his family wintered in Palm Beach, Florida due to his mother’s asthma. Because he went back and forth from North to South, he noticed differences in schooling and prospects for Black children in the 1950s and 1960s. When Florida started to integrate, Eberling noticed that the school system would do as little as possible to comply with new laws. He compares this with his New York school, where he had Black friends from affluent families. When he graduated, he went to college for two years at Palm Beach Junior College, where he had his first Black professor. He then transferred to the University of Florida in 1968 to get a Bachelors in Education, where he saw the transition from a majority sorority and fraternity campus to a culture of “hippie radicals” and a burgeoning Civil Rights Movement.



When he returned to his old high school to teach history, Palm Beach County decided that by the Fall term of 1970, the school system would be totally integrated. As a substitute teacher, he witnessed riots and other forms of violence. However, he was unable to find a long-term teaching job because integration-policies required a 50-50 ratio of Black to White faculty. After teaching at a state prison, he gave up on a teaching career and joined the Air Force.





Keywords: [Palm Beach County, Florida; Alachua County, Florida; Integration; Education; University of Florida]

















For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 056

Interviewee: Ray Eberling Interviewer: Adam Montague Date: June 12, 2009



	M:	My name is Adam Montague, and I’m interviewing Ray Eberling at the University of Florida, June 12th, 2009. Okay, Ray. So, when and where were you born?

	E:	I was born May 10, 1948 in a little town outside New York City called Suffern. S- U-F-F-E-R-N.

	M:	Okay, and is that where you grew up?



	E:	First fifteen years of my life, yes. However, I have to qualify that by saying that for five or six of those years, my family was what we call snowbirds, meaning that we wintered down in Palm Beach County, Florida. We were by no means—had any money. It was due to my mother’s asthma that we would go down for the winter. We owned a very modest little trailer in a trailer park in the town of Riviera Beach, which is just north of West Palm Beach.

	M:	Okay, so what was your schooling life like up in the North and coming down to Florida?

	E:	Yes, I was in a New York City suburb school, a very good school system. In the early years coming down to Florida, the schools school seemed to be very, very backward. We would go down typically Thanksgiving, come back in Easter. My brother and sister and I would just pick up in the schools we were in, that we left in the fall; just went right back in. But in those days, and I’m taking about originally from the early [19]50s and then through the early [19]60s, it was almost like going back in time to go to the schools. I was in a little school called Riviera Beach Elementary, and a lot of the kids were just barefoot, and very poverty-





stricken as you saw them coming to school. So it was very, very much kind of a culture shock every time we went down there and came back.

	M:	Okay. So, coming down to Florida, were you exposed to much racial segregation?

	E:	Well, the schools were officially segregated. I should say that it was in May 1954 that Brown versus School Board of Topeka Kansas, the classic case stating that separate was not equal in the schools systems. That was in May 1954, so it was being argued when I was down here that winter, in the first grade in a segregated school. Yeah, so that was officially segregated. Everything else was segregated. I’ve got one little anecdote, when Dr. Ortiz was talking about the water fountains: when I was as young as five years old, I could read okay, but I was with my mother at a little five or ten cent store in Riviera Beach. I ran to get a drink of water, and my mother stopped me. She said, “No, that’s the Colored fountain.” And unlike the pictures he showed, they looked the exactly the same to me, except one had the sign that said “Colored,” and one had the sign that said “White.” And so I looked at it, and I’m thinking, you know, “Okay.” [Laughter] But it wouldn’t have mattered to her, she being from the North, but she was following the local rules. And I’m looking at this water fountain, I said, “Well, it looks as clean as this one,” or whatever. So, yeah. That’s kind of anecdotal. But other vestiges of segregation: the city of Riviera Beach today is one of the more unique ones in Florida when it comes to race. It is a majority African American city—was back then, but the old story you hear about the different sides of the railroads tracks was literally true. If you lived west of the tracks, you were Black; you lived





east of the tracks, you were White. And so, any interactions that we would have had with Blacks at that time would have been something like—well, this is another funny thing: you go to a restaurant, and you’d look back in the kitchen in one of those little cubby holes you could see back in the kitchen; it was almost always a Black woman preparing your food. But in my six-, seven-year-old mind, I’m thinking, “Well, if she’s making my food, why can’t they eat here, too?” [Laughter] You know? I just had these little things in the back of my mind. There was a big chain, a popular chain—they were cafeterias called Morrison’s, which may have lasted in Florida into the [19]70’s but the—it was basically, you stood on line like a school cafeteria, except it was for grown-ups, or families or whatever, and it had regular restaurant food. But your trays were always taken to the table by a Black porter with a starched white jacket on. So, I mean, those are the main memories that I have, other than going to—you know, the schools were White, and right up through the eighth grade winter down there, they were all White, and then in tenth grade—it was just the week before Kennedy got shot— our family moved down there permanently. And I go to the high school and there’s like, okay, there’s two Black kids in my class, and there’s a sprinkling in the upper class and lower grades. So what was happening at that point—and this is November 1963, it’s sometime between [19]62 and [19]63—the school system started doing what was called “Freedom of Choice,” meaning—[Laughter] I’m not sure I know entirely what it does mean other than the fact that the rationale was that, “We will be complying with integration, if we give students the choice of where they want to attend school.” Well, that resulted, usually, in like, two or





three Black students per school, and no White students going to the Black school. But that was their idea of compliance. So, I could go on from there. I mean, so when I arrived, this was something new; I’d had a couple Black friends in my New York high school, I was in tenth grade. And it was very interesting to me how the Black students were treated by the faculty and the majority of the student body. You didn’t see any overt hostility per se; what you saw is basically, everybody ignored them. The teachers would rarely call on them, any communication was kind of curt; you had some people on the athletic teams, or on the band, or whatever like that, but they were sort of like socially ostracized, at least in that time. This was [19]63-[19]64 school year. I graduated in [19]66 from that high school, Riviera Beach, and it was still pretty much the case. The school was about half Southerners, crackers, whatever you want to call them, native crackers, and half kids of families that had moved down up North. And what was so strange to me was, “Okay, all these people are from up North, but they’re sort of like following along with these Southern segregation rules, not making waves.” And it wasn’t like, with one or two exceptions, anybody was being rude to the students. It was just like they weren’t there. It was kind of odd.

	M:	So, being from up North, were you shocked when you first came down and saw this, or had you kind of heard about it? Was it known that down South, things were a little different, African Americans were treated differently?

	E:	I knew it was different. Now, to be fair, in the town I lived in up North, there were so few Black families. Especially in grade school. We’d occasionally get a seasonal worker come in or something, and there would be on a few occasions,





like, maybe one Black student in my class, going up through the grades. By the time I got to junior high in New York—and we’re talking now early [19]60s, early- early [19]60s—I had a couple of Black friends, and it was interesting because they were very, very—their families were very affluent. [Laughter] Their parents were in some kind of—they had businesses or whatever, and were the best- dressed kids in school. So that was kind of, statistically I guess you’d say an aberration. But those were the ones I knew in New York. Now, I knew what the game was in the South. But when I got there in tenth grade, it was very interesting how I was going to have to play it. Because, like any new kid in a new school, you’re trying to fit in. About the first week of school, I had a geometry teacher who said, “Would you help Johnny”—the guy’s name was Johnny—“with his with his work?” I was coming down from New York; of course, we’re a chapter or two ahead from the Florida schools. [Laughter] Johnny was a Black guy; he had polio. He walked around on crutches. And always had a smile on his face. I tried to contact him here in the last couple of weeks, and I haven’t heard back from him yet. But. So you know he’s one of the first people I really talked to, and I was kind of an exception. And none of the other students in the class really said anything. But I’d been there about a month, and I’m sitting in the school cafeteria with these tentative new friends that I had, and all of a sudden Johnny walks over with his tray—crutches in one hand, tray in the other—and sits down with me.

And it’s like the whole cafeteria—this is maybe about January [19]64—the whole cafeteria, you could just hear kind of like a hush, because, “Okay, what’s going on here?” And I knew what was going on, but—and the guys I’d been talking to,





sitting on my right, they didn’t say anything. But you could just feel the tension. Nothing ever came of that, but it was still—and again, we’re talking [19]63-[19]64 when this happened. The other aberration of that, though, is—I don’t know if high schools still do yearbooks or not.

	M:	Yeah, I believe so, they do.



	E:	But yearbooks always had what they called the senior superlatives, or, you know, who’s most popular, who’s most athletic. And one of the few Black students in the senior class in 1964 was voted, like, most talented or something like that. So there was some recognition. It was just, there was no logic to the interaction.

Other than the fact that there wasn’t much interaction, but somehow that one got through. [Laughter] I remember him, he was just, like, so outgoing personality, how could you dislike the guy even if you were prejudiced?

	M:	So, when you—was he treated differently at the younger years at the school, and he just became more popular as, you know, segregation—?

	E:	I don’t know. I arrived in tenth grade; this guy was a senior. So, I don’t know. And it had just been about the past year when they started accepting Black students into the school. Moving on down the line a bit, in the summer of [19]65, there was notice given that there would be significantly more Black students in our school, mostly in the lower grades: ninth, tenth, eleventh. I was going to be a senior. And so, you know, “Prepare for it.” About a week before school started, I was in the student council, and we had meetings beforehand, like, the week before school started. And I had made the suggestion that said, “Okay, this is going to happen whether you like it or not. Why don’t we have some kind of program where we





welcome these people and just try to make sure, you know, iron over any issues?” And I was, like, immediately shouted down by everybody in the student council. And the student council advisors. “No, no, no, no! Just make believe nothing’s happening, just all natural, it’ll fall into place.” And so, that didn’t happen. The—so, sometime during my senior year, I was in a class called “Boys’ Chorus.” It was kind of like a parking place for guys that had to kill an extra period. Easy credit, it was like a lot of shop majors who had never sung in their life or whatever. And the teacher had to leave the room for a minute, and this one White freshman kid gets up, and there were one or two Black guys in this boys’ chorus. And he started, you know, messing with the tiny little Black kid. Ninth- grader, he was probably fourteen or fifteen years old. And you know, started pushing him like that. Well, he was just a little punky ninth grader. And I get up, and when he wasn’t expecting it, I pushed the White kid like that. Well there’s an old cracker boy sitting in the top row in my grade, twelfth grade, and he says, “Hey Eberling, you come up here and do that to me.” He was about the only kid that I remember that was like overtly racially hostile, would actually say things.

He was, you know, he was a KKK-like person; I’m not saying that he was, but—. Because everybody else would just kind of ignore the situation. So that was in late [19]65 that that incident happened. There were two in my graduating class: a guy that played football and basketball, but I mean, he was running back on the football team, they didn’t give him the ball. On the basketball team, he was second team if you can believe that. The only Black guy on the— [Laughter] They put him in in the last five minutes of the game or something, but we had a





very good team anyway, and he was only about five-eight or five-nine. So, I knew the coach, and the coach in later years I knew when there was much more integration. And I don’t think it was anything on his part doing it. So, let me flash forward there. I went to college, at first two years at Palm Beach Junior College. It’s now called Palm Beach Community College. By that time, there’d started to be a little more mainstreaming. Still not a lot of Black students, but Palm Beach County at the time had a public Black junior college, Roosevelt. And they closed it, they merged two schools. So, I had my first Black professor in Math. I served on the newspaper. There was a Black woman who was on the school newspaper. But it was, by that time, we’re talking [19]66, [19]67, [19]68, if you’re in college, it’s suddenly sort of like hip to be progressive. You know, this is happening, this is quickly, if you go through the years. Good relations there. I got here to University of Florida in the fall of [19]68, and times were becoming very interesting. This school was in such a transition from being, like, you know, crew cut fraternity, sorority one hundred percent, and in those two years I was here, it was a like a revolution had taken place. You still had the fraternities on one side, you had the hippie radicals on the other side. Still very few Black students, but if you think about what Dr. Ortíz has been talking about, and with some of the other students interviewing some of the Black Civil Rights pioneers here in Gainesville, this was sort of like the earlier days, [19]67, [19]68, [19]69, of the Black power movement. So, I believe that there were kind of factions up here in Gainesville, with the traditional NAACP-type Civil Rights Movement, and some of these

quote-unquote “Black agitators” coming in from out of town and stirring things up.





So, it was in the middle of that. But really, at that point—I should backtrack a little. My brother came here in the fall of [19]64, lived in the old Hume Hall, which was where the current Hume Hall is—older building—and there was a Black guy on his floor. And they gave him his own room, and he never talked to anybody, nobody would ever talk to him. And my brother being from New York, went up and tried to engage him in conversation once, and the guy wanted nothing to do with him. So that’s 1964, so in a short period of, like, four or five years—you know, that’s why they call it a revolution, a cultural revolution—that much had changed, just a few years in this university.

	M:	They were willing to give him his own room just because they didn’t want to have anything to do with him?

	E:	I think it has something to do with the university just trying to do—I mean, this is speculation—my guess is that, you know, “Okay, this way we don’t have to deal with trying to match him up with somebody.” You know, “We just don’t have to deal with it, we’ll just give him his own room. We have to have him, we’ll give him his own room.” But that’s speculation.

	M:	Okay. So, you said your brother, was that an older brother? E:	Yes, a few years older than me.

	M:	And did he move down the same time you moved down?



	E:	He had actually, since he was going to be in his senior year, my family arranged to allow him to finish at his New York high school, with, you know, stay with relatives. Ironically, by the time he did move down here, he transferred to FAU,





and became a schoolteacher in the Palm Beach County schools. So, yeah, he wound up knowing so many of the same teachers and students anyway.

	M:	Okay. With the whole Civil Rights Movement taking place while you were growing up and in school, was it more just people trying to ignore the situation, or did you witness much violence or confrontation, in school or just in general?

	E:	Okay, other than that one incident when I was in high school, here’s what happened: I graduated from here in December 1970. It was a midyear type of thing; I needed a couple classes and I didn’t take them in June, so I took a couple classes in summer, I took a couple classes in the fall, and graduated. My only goal in life was to a be a teacher back in that school system. So I got a Bachelor of Arts in Education from here; I wanted to be a high school Social Studies teacher. It’s midyear, I get my teachers’ license, I go back to my old school district, I go back to my old high school. And this is—this will be a bit of a story here, so bear with me. Let me backtrack to the summer of 1970, and I may have some details wrong here, so it may require some follow-up. The state of Florida was one of the worst Southern states to be dragging its feet for so long since 1954 to truly integrate the schools. So there were a series of lawsuits, and I think there was one lawsuit for every state county in the state. You know, sixty- seven lawsuits separately filed against the county school system to say, “Okay, we’re going to force you to actually, with a correct ratio of Black to White students, truly integrate every school in the state, every school in a particular county. In this case, Palm Beach County. This was decided, or the decision came out, at least, for Palm Beach County, came out in the summer of 1970, that





says, “When the fall term starts”—which was like the last week of August—“you will have a totally integrated school system.” So, this county schools had, like, three to four weeks to pull this together. Well, of course, there were probably about a third of the residents of Florida at the time than there are now, and same goes for Palm Beach County. But along the east coast of Florida, there were— the east coast of Palm Beach County—there were, the city of Riviera Beach had two high schools, the White and the Black. West Palm Beach had had a couple of White, two White high schools. There were two that were close together: Palm Beach High School, and Roosevelt High School was the Black high school.

Down in Delray Beach, Boynton Beach/Delray Beach area, they had Seacrest High School, the White high school, they had Carver, the Black high school. And they had—and not even counting the junior highs at the time, and the elementary schools—they had to say, “Okay, not only are we going to merge the schools, but you’re going to get—in order so everybody has a brand new identity, and we’re not favoring one identity over the other, you’re going to change the name of the school. You’re going to change the name of their mascots. And you’re going to have this totally new identity.” Well, in my case, Riviera Beach High School was aligned with John F. Kennedy High School, the Black school that was less than a mile away on the other side of the tracks. And it, they just started making up names. The school board started making up names for schools and mascots, and suddenly we went from the Riviera Beach Hornets, and they were the Kennedy Vikings; we became, together Suncoast High School Chargers. Okay? And they were trying to do things so balanced that they said, “Okay, we’re going





to have the ninth and tenth grade students start out at the old Kennedy campus, and the eleventh and twelfth grade students start out in the morning at the Riviera Beach campus. But at lunchtime, we’re going to put everybody on buses, and put them over on the other campus. To be fair. That worked about the first semester, and they decided, “This is stupid; we’ll put the ninth and tenth graders in the Kennedy campus, and we’ll put the juniors and seniors in the Riviera Beach campus.” And then they’re saying, “Well, that’s still unfair; you’re putting the younger kids in the Black school, you’re putting the older kids in the White school.” Actually, the Kennedy campus was a few years newer, and as a facility was somewhat nicer. But, that’s what they did. Well, there started to be a series of riots around the states with this court-ordered integration, and I believe the Riviera Beach scenario, the now-Suncoast High School scenario, it was like “Thank goodness we’ve held off from this.” Well, about January of the New Year, the riots started there. And they became the worst and perhaps some of the most famous in the state’s history. They were getting on national television—you know, this was so bizarre. I just graduated from here in December. I’d go and I sign up to be a substitute teacher; just want to go back to my high school, no other goal in life, is “I want to be a History teacher at my old high school.” I get called in like the first day, I think, one of the first days after the Christmas break by the secretary, who says, “Ray, can you come in and be a substitute today?” And I said, Yes.” This was going to be my first gig! You know, back in my old high school! And she said, “Okay. Don’t expect get too much done today. You’re taking the place of a teacher who just got his jaw broken in a riot.” Yeah. So I





thought it was odd anyway, I was getting this call at like ten-thirty in the morning; usually you get it, like, at seven-thirty in the morning to do a substitute gig, or even the day before. So I get in there, and I spent about a month there. I don’t know that he ever came back. But he was being hounded by the press, by the national press, everything. I go back to my old high school, back to the very same classroom where this one History teacher had inspired me to be a history teacher—you know, like, five years before. And you’d try to start class, and all of the sudden you’d hear a lot of noise out in the hallway. It was one of these old high schools with the outdoor hallways. And suddenly, there’d be people running and screaming. Suddenly, you have the sheriff SWAT teams, and they were marching through with their billy clubs and shields on their faces. It was bizarre to go back into that environment. So yes, that was the violence that I saw. And something that I don’t think is addressed very much is, at that point, it seemed like a hundred years or so of segregation and violence against Blacks suddenly just bursting at the seams. But most the violence going on was Black on White at that point. Within that school year, a lot of the—they had what they call White flight. A lot of the—if you were senior, you could choose your own school anyway, supposedly, in the county. Almost—a good deal of the White kids left that year and went up to the new school to the north which was not having these problems, because it was in a suburb like seven or eight miles away. So, they left to the new high school. At that time, they had—at that time, they called them “segregation academies,” but they were usually conservative Protestant Christian private schools that were sprouting up everywhere. A lot of them went to these





private schools. A lot of them went to the adult program that they had; the county had an adult GED program. And suddenly, by the end of the schoolyear, the whites were maybe twenty to thirty percent of the student body of that particular high school, instead of fifty-fifty. It took years, really, for that school and that pattern to change somewhat, and basically when they started the magnet school program, whenever that was, and they started International Baccalaureate program. And that’s very typical in Florida. Like in Gainesville, International Baccalaureate program’s at Eastside high school. East side of town, majority Black neighborhood. Same thing here; they made Suncoast an International Baccalaureate program. And now they get these ratings like they’re the seventh best high school in the country. [Laughter] It’s odd. But yeah. A lot of that is not talking about—what I would like to do as a follow-up project for my dissertation is to go back. Students on both sides were bitter. And I should probably tell you why there were riots. It’s that both sides were angry, and the Whites—the White community was confused. Like, “Isn’t this what you wanted all these years, been fighting for sixteen years or more to have integrated schools?” “Well, yes, but you’ve totally stripped our identity. We had our identity with our own high school, our own neighborhoods; now we’re bussed everywhere. So, you took away our school name, you took away our mascot.” And the Whites would say, “Well, you did the same to us; we’re not very happy about that, either.” But it was a time of empowerment for Blacks that hadn’t existed before. And so, to this day—in fact, we had an all-class reunion. My old high school only had ten graduating classes.





And this past weekend, that’s where I was. A thousand people still show up to this thing. Now, a thousand people; not one black student goes.

	M:	Really? Not one?



	E:	Yeah. Not one. And I would like to—I mean, for the most part, as the years got on later [19]67, [19]68, [19]69, when more Black kids were in the school, there started to be this little bit of, “Okay, everybody’s starting to get along.” But when it became the court-ordered, and the merging, and this artificial fifty-fifty type thing, that’s when all hell broke loose. I spoke to a young woman—and I’ve heard this before—she had started her senior year, after going through Riviera Beach High School freshman, sophomore junior; senior year, now she’s now at Suncoast High School. She left after three weeks. Her parents put her in the high school to the north. Everybody was lying about their residence addresses, it’s just amazing what was going on during this period. She—and I’ve talked to a lot of other students—is bitter to this day. She goes, “I didn’t have a senior year.” You know, anybody who was like the class of [19]71, at that school, whether you’re Black or you’re White, that is what they remember. What should have been their kind of capstone fun year that most of us had; to this day, you’ll talk to people and it’s a very, very difficult subject to approach with them.

	M:	Yeah I’m sure. So being a teacher at this time, your first year teaching: was it, were there Black teachers as well at the school?

	E:	Yes. So, that was the other thing, too. In fact, it affected ultimately what I did for a career. Not only did you have to have a very precise ratio, school by school, of students; you had to have a very precise ratio of faculty. At that time, being late





[19]60’s, early [19]70’s, everything was kind of like, Sociology, you know, Psychology. And everybody wanted to be a Social Studies teacher if you’re going to be some kind of teacher at all. It was before everybody wanted to do Math and Business. At this period of time, everybody wanted to be in the Humanities or social sciences. And so, I had certificate in secondary Social Studies teaching from the state. We were a dime a dozen. I couldn’t even get back to my old school district, because—first of all, because of the ratio that was required. That they had to match, again, faculty member for faculty member to try to get as close to fifty-fifty as they can in the schools. And the other thing they used to do, and I don’t know if they still do this or not, but this is a value judgment here: Social Studies was sort of considered a throwaway subject. [Laughter] And I could have gotten a job if I had the capability to coach football, which I had no background in. Okay? Because they would take—if they needed a coach, be it football, track, basketball whatever, they would rather take somebody who could coach and have that person assigned to teach Social Studies, than to take a Social Studies teacher and try to make a coach out of them. And there was actually a guy a year behind me in school who had—he got his degree, but he had, like, no Social Studies background at all, I forget what it was. But, he had been one of our football stars. So what does he do? He gets the Social Studies job that I want so he can be an assistant football coach. So, bottom line was, is I tried for three years: Palm Beach County, Alachua County. I spent one of those years winding up working up at Raiford at the state prison teaching because I





couldn’t get a public school teaching job. And I threw in the towel, and joined the Air Force, and made the Air Force a career.

	M:	Wow, that’s interesting. So, when you were teaching, you said there was you know confrontations, and riots and violence. Was that mostly between students, or did you see that between the Black and White teachers, or were they more understanding and accepting?

	E:	The Black and White teachers were trying to make it work, for the most part. One of those teachers at that high school at Suncoast got fired because they found he was carrying a knife with him. Self-defense, was he trying to do something? I never knew him. The broken jaw was from a Black student to the White teacher. Yeah, most the faculty—because I would go to the faculty meetings, and everybody was really just trying to make an honest effort, I think, to sort it out.

There were still some White teachers that were, “Okay, I’m not thrilled with this, but I understand it.” So as I said—and I’m really only talking about a very focused period of time here. 1971, like in the spring of 1971. And my personal observation at that time, it was more Black-on-White violence; it was, basically, what can I get away with? You know, guys going down the hallway and groping White girls as they’re walking the opposite direction. There was a lot of that sort of thing: “What are you going to do about it?” So it’s not the politically-correct answer, but it was the reality at the time. And it’s a largely an explored area, I think.

	M:	Yeah. Okay. You said you joined the Air Force? E:	Yes.





	M:	Okay did you—at that time, was there much racial segregation going on with, you know, within the Air Force?

	E:	No, I mean, there—I think it was Eisenhower, or Truman had desegregated the Services. Of course, earlier in the [19]50s, there was still a lot of racial tensions, [19]60s. I was just talking to a friend of mine yesterday who had been in Vietnam, a guy a couple years older than me, and he was saying how it was to get along with the Black soldiers. There was still a lot of mistrust, but you know, once you’re out there in the field, you’re trying to save each other. [Laughter] I went in, and it was like three, three years out of college, almost four years out of college, early [19]74. I was in the Air Force which is one of the more white-collar services, if you want to put it like that. There was still some racial tension, but not much. I had made a friend in Basic Training—I went through the enlisted section before I got commissioned. I did eventually get commissioned. But when I went through enlisted, I had a Black friend, and we went away to tech school together, and we’re hanging out at tech school, and there were some Black guys came up to him and said he shouldn’t be hanging out with me. But that was the exception.

You know.



	M:	Yeah. So, that didn’t happen often?



	E:	No, I mean, everybody pretty much got along by [19]74 that I could see.



Certainly, now. I mean, I defend the military a lot because—especially if you were to see it today—it is so, not only interracial, but it’s multiracial. Because it tends to be, people in the military to make a career out of it, then have their children make a career out of it, et cetera. The biases against interracial marriage are a





lot less there than you see in general society. So, I would say that is a very positive thing about the military, especially today, is that I see, you know, pretty much complete acceptance of each other. When I was—the interesting thing wasn’t so much the race; I was a navigator, I was flying for a living—it was getting women to fly. That was the mid-[19]70’s thing, the controversy allowing women in the cockpit, which is now mainstreamed.

	M:	Yep, that’s changed. Okay, so you said one of your first experiences witnessing segregation was with the water fountain when you were a child?

	E:	Yes, that’s, like, four or five years old in Florida.



	M:	Okay, do you have any specific memories of, you know, maybe the last time you really witnessed any segregation or any real racial animosity, or have you felt like we’ve come a long enough way, and made—?

	E:	Well, you know, not that I personally witnessed, but I don’t think it was more than a couple weeks ago I saw on TV or read in the paper that there’s some high schools in Georgia that have still have separate proms.

	M:	Oh, really?



	E:	And that it’s still sort of like—well, part of it’s White parents’ wishes, part of it’s the Black students who still miss their heritage; but they still have separate proms.

So, that’s not something I’ve witnessed, but you know, it’s something seen on the news recently in this day and age. I would have to think about that for a moment. I’m very, very careful how I say this, because I think as a White person, the perception is, you know—I remember the old days, and I think about, okay, watching television now, there’s Black characters. Cop shows and everything like





that. But I remember when Bill Cosby came on, and I Spy in the [19]60’s. It was like, “Wow, there’s going to be a Black guy working with a White guy in a show!” It was a still a big deal. So, I think it tends—I think from a White perspective, you tend to see a lot more mainstreaming. And I would say, perhaps, from a Black perspective you still are seeing what you and I might not see. The University of Heidelberg last year, I was a graduate assistant to a woman twenty years younger than me, a professor of African American studies at the University of Nebraska, who was a visiting professor when I was there. A very, very illuminating woman who addresses this very issue, how there are different perceptions like that.

	M:	Okay. All right, so is there anything else you would like to add? Any other thoughts you have on this issue? Other memories?

	E:	Yeah, and I wanted to sort of bring up in class the other day. Which—I don’t know if any of these interviews like your fellow students are doing, if the issue of trust and mistrust comes up. For instance, and this is really getting off into the other interviews, even those who are trying to make the best efforts with working with members of the other race, was there a deep-seated mistrust kind of like, “Okay, why is this White minister trying to be nice to me and trying to help us?

What’s his or her real agenda?” I think that needs to be addressed in a large fashion. I would still—again, I go to these reunions, and you see people that you know in their adult life and in business they’re interacting with Black people every day. But for some reason, there’s still this weird thing like, you know, if you bring up something back then, there’s still kind of a gray area.





	M:	Sure. Okay. Well, I think that’s it, unless you have anything else. E:	No.

	M:	Okay. Well, thank you, Ray, for this interview. E:	You’re welcome.

[End of interview





	Audit-edited by:	Kaitlyn Muchnok and Ryan Morini, August 1, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019