AAHP 208; King; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 208 Levonia King

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Nailah Summers on November 3, 2011

53 minutes | 30 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Ms. Levonia King delves into memories of her childhood and adulthood living in Newberry, Florida, and discusses her family’s deep roots in the area. Throughout her narrative, Ms. King speaks of the various forms of work she committed herself to from a young age, helping her family make ends meet. She also considers the sense of community she felt closely connected to in Newberry and highlights how she met her husband and began a family. Additionally, Ms. King touches upon how the Civil Rights Movement was perceived in Newberry, and she talks about her sentiments toward Barack Obama’s election as President of the United States.



Keywords: [African American History; Newberry; Alachua County, Florida; Civil Rights Movement]





















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 208

Interviewee: Levonia King Interviewer: Nailah Summers

Date of Interview: November 3, 2011



	S:	This is Nailah Summers. I am in Newberry, Florida with Ms. Levonia King. It is November 3. Thank you so much for having me in your house and allowing me to do this interview with you. So let’s start with: when and where were you born?

	K:	I was born right in Newberry. I’m eighty-seven years old. I was born January 13, 1924.

	S:	Very cool. And who were your parents?



	K:	Well, my parents was Maple—Maple Williams—and Jesse Davis was my parents.

	S:	Jesse Davis?



	K:	Mmhm. But I was raised by my grandmother S:	Okay, and what was her name?

	K:	Melissa Williams.



	S:	Melissa Williams? Oh that’s right. I think Brenda told me about her. And what did Ms. Williams, Ms. Melissa Williams, what did she do?

	K:	She was a housewife. S:	Oh yeah?

	K:	Mmhm. It was me, my sister, and I. She raised us without a father. Just the two of us.

	S:	Okay.



	K:	Mmhm. And I was raised in a house next door. [Inaudible 1:29] And we didn’t have water, we didn’t have electricity. And we had an outdoor bedroom.

	S:	You had an outhouse?





	K:	Mmhm. And we would throw water from my uncle’s house two doors down, to use in wash and what not. And we used lamps, kerosene lamps. That’s what we had to see by. And we would burn those lamps at night and get down on the floor and sit the lamp on the floor and get our homework out. That’s how we got our homework out.

	S:	And where did you go to school here in Newberrry?



	K:	Right here in Newberry, Newberry Middle School. Our school didn’t go any further than middle school.

	S:	Because there weren’t any other options?



	K:	After we finished middle school, then we were transferred to Alachua to ACT School. That was the high school.

	S:	ACT? And that was an all-Black school?



	K:	Uh-huh. And that’s where I finished high school at in Alachua. S:	And what is it? Alachua?

	K:	Uh-huh. Alachua, Florida. And the school name was ACT. Alachua County Training School.

	S:	Alachua County Training School. And what did they train you there? K:	[Laughter] And our principal was Mr. Mebane.

	S:	Oh okay, and that’s who the high school was named after? K:	Mmhm.

	S:	That’s where Brenda went to school? K:	Mmhm.

	S:	And what do you remember about your teachers?





	K:	Well, I remember I had some good teachers. I remember my music teacher, and she’s still living.

	S:	Yeah?



	K:	Mmhm.



	S:	Wow.



	K:	Ms. Welks was my music teacher, and she’s still living. Then I had a high school teacher by the name of Frank Coleman. And he taught me in Newberry school and then he was my teacher in high school.

	S:	Okay. So he travelled to the schools? K:	He transferred. Mmhm.

	S:	Well, you said uh Ms. Melissa Williams raised you with your sister. And who else?

	K:	Nobody. Just the two of us, my sister and my grandmomma. S:	And you said she was a housewife?

	K:	Mmhm



	S:	And um what did her husband do? K:	She didn’t have a husband.

	S:	She didn’t have a husband?



	K:	Unh-uh. It was just the three of us.



	S:	And how did you guys make ends meet?



	K:	Well she was on federal welfare check. And she would do washing and ironing for different people. And that’s how we lived. But we never went hungry them days. We always had something to eat because she was always [inaudible 4:47]





a garden. We always had vegetables. And back then people would kill hogs. And if you killed a hog you would distribute between the neighbors, and that was how we got our meat.

	S:	So there was a lot of community interaction? K:	Yeah, right.

	S:	And that was right around here? K:	Yeah. Mmhm.

	S:	In this next lot?



	K:	Mmhm. In the next lot, that’s my lot over there, where there’s no house at. S:	Where the truck is?

	K:	Yeah. That’s where I was raised. But then after I finished high school, I grew up and I got married. And after I got married, my husband was in the service for two years after I got married. While he was in the service, I bought this lot here. And after he come out of the service he was working for a man who had a house built here. On this lot that I bought when he was in the service. The first house we had built, it got burned down.

	S:	Really?



	K:	Mmhm.



	S:	How’d that happen?



	K:	I had three children then and it got burned down. S:	And who did that? Or was it—?

	K:	My children.



	S:	[Laughter]





	K:	My grandmamma who had raised me, she had a house built right down the street there. And on a Sunday, that’s where I was. And I had sent the two oldest children, that was Brenda and Floyd, to get a pair of panties for my third child. So they came here and lit the lamp. And the wind blew the curtain and caught the curtain on fire. And that’s what caused the house to burn down.

	S:	And how did you guys deal with that, after it burned down?



	K:	After then we stayed with my grandmomma who had raised me. And the man my husband was working for, he had insurance on the house that burned down.

	S:	Okay, good.



	K:	So he took the insurance money and had this house as well. S:	Okay. So how long has this house been standing?

	K:	Fifty-eight years. S:	Wow.

	K:	Mmhm.



	S:	Good. So your kids had a lot of experience in this house?



	K:	[Laughter] I can remember because when the house burned down I was pregnant.

	S:	Oh. With your fourth child?



	K:	With my son. I’m the mother of seven children. S:	I saw the picture at Brenda’s house.

	K:	Mmhm. And there they are [inaudible 7:57]. S:	Oh yeah.





	K:	And I was in this house three weeks before he born. That’s how I come I can remember how old this house it.

	S:	Oh okay. What was your husband’s name? K:	Floyd King.

	S:	Floyd King?



	K:	He passed in [19]85.



	S:	In [19]85? That was two years before I was born. K:	[Laughter]. Mmhm, yeah.

	S:	And where did he serve in those two years?



	K:	Wherever they were fighting war at. [Laughter] I guess. During that time, I don’t know. [Inaudible 8:46] He was in the service two years after we got married.

	S:	And how did you make a living while he was gone? K:	Well, I worked.

	S:	Yeah, what did you do?



	K:	I worked in restaurants, short-order cooks. You know, different things like that. S:	And around here?

	K:	Yeah, because [inaudible 9:14] you couldn’t get like now you can get loans and different things to go to school. And you couldn’t get nothing like that then. We were, my sister and I, we were raised without fathers. So we had no way to go to college. So that’s what I did when I got out of school: I worked. And we would help our grandma to stop her from [inaudible 9:47] and washing. Ironing and things like that. [Inaudible 9:51].







S:

And who did she wash and iron for? For the Black community or White



community?

K:

White people in the community.

S:

And did she just wash and iron for them or did she work at their houses too?

K:

No, she didn’t work at their houses. She just took in washing and ironing.

S:

And who did your husband work for?

K:

Paul Norfleet.

S:

And was he a White guy? A White man?

K:

Mmhm. He was one of the biggest farmers in Newberry.

S:

Oh really?

K:

Yeah. And I worked for his wife. I worked for her for thirty-eight years.

S:

And were you at her house?

K:

Yeah, I worked at her house for thirty-eight years.

S:

So you had experiences with her kids and you raised the kids?

K:

Right.

S:

And what sort of things did you do for them?

K:

Well, what you do in a house. I made sure [inaudible 10:48]. Cleaned, washed,



ironed. Stuff like that.

S:

And what kind of hours were they? What time would you. . . ?

K:

Well, from about 8 a.m. to 1:30 p.m.

S:

That’s good. And how did you get back and forth?





	K:	Well when I first start working there I used to walk. But it’s not that far, you know, to walk where she lived at. But then she would come pick me up and bring me back home.

	S:	Okay. And would you sit in the front seat with her or in the back? K:	In the front seat.

	S:	Yeah? So they treated you good?



	K:	Yeah. And I would sit at the table with them and eat. S:	Oh, good. Okay.

	K:	They were very nice to me. He was the one that took the insurance money and had this house built.

	S:	Right. And what did your husband do for him? K:	On the farm?

	S:	On the farm.



	K:	He did good farm work. S:	Right. And what kind of?

	K:	He planted peanuts, corn, tobacco, and things like that, you know. And he worked with him for years. And, then, finally, he stopped working with him and went to doing construction, roadworks.

	S:	And when was that?



	K:	And that’s what he was doing, you know, before he got hurt. He got hurt doing roadworks, on the job. And then he got disabled. And after then he start having a lot of problems, like heart trouble, diabetes, and all that kind of stuff. He got caught in some kind of instrument that turn round and round.







S:

Oh!

K:

And they say he was lucky he was alive because somebody was there to stop it.



And there were [inaudible 13:04].

S:

Did he have any kind of workers’ compensation? Or did he have any benefits



from the job?

K:

After he got hurt, he got workers compensation.

S:

Okay. So what was your sister’s name?

K:

Alina.

S:

Alena? I like that name. I have a cousin—

K:

Her last name was Burgess.

S:

Burgess?

K:

Burgess.

S:

Burgess.

K:

She was two years older than I—no, she was a year and six months older than I



was.

S:

Six months?

K:

A year and six months

S:

And what did she do?

K:

She was a housewife.

S:

She was a housewife?

K:

Mmhm. And she had one daughter.

S:

Are they still around?

K:

My sister dead but her daughter live in Pompano.





	S:	Okay. How did your family end up in Newberry? Because you were born here, and I know all your kids were born here.

	K:	[Laughter] I wouldn’t know how they ended up here. All I know, I was born here. S:	Yeah?

	K:	Mmhm.



	S:	Was Ms. Melissa Williams born here, too? Do you know?



	K:	Oh, well, she was born in Jonesville. [Inaudible 14.52] out here. A little place out here.

	S:	Right, right.



	K:	That’s where she was born at. So I imagine she came from Jonesville to Newberry.

	S:	Mmhm.



	K:	‘Cause for ever since I could remember, I was with her.



	S:	Right. And where were were your parents, if you don’t mind me asking? K:	Well, my dad he was somewhere around drinking. He was alcoholic.

	S:	Right, okay.



	K:	And my mom, she was married and living in Williston. S:	Oh, that’s right down there.

	K:	Mmhm. In Williston, Florida. And [inaudible 15:09]. And I don’t know how my grandmomma got us [inaudible 15:16]. But I can remember that’s who I was with all my life, was my grandmamma.

	S:	And what sort of things would you do around the house when you were living with your grandmother?





	K:	Whatever needed to be done. [Laughter] Plant gardens. And I was the one she would always [inaudible 15:38] in the garden. Hoe, you know, to cut the grass. My sister would do the housework and I would do the outside work. Whatever needed to be done, we did it. Just the three of us.

	S:	Right. What else do you remember from your childhood? Good memories, not- so-good memories.

	K:	Well, we were—my grandmomma was very religious and we went to church on Sundays. We went to church three times a day.

	S:	Wow. On Sunday or every day?



	K:	On Sunday. Three times a day. On Sunday that’s all we did. On Saturday, she cooked.

	S:	All day?



	K:	Food for Sunday. And we would go to Sunday school. We would go to three o’clock service and then we would go to seven o’clock service. And we walked. We had no way of riding. We would walk.

	S:	And how far was that?



	K:	Well, the church not too over there from the water tower. It’s not too far. I couldn’t tell you. I would say maybe a couple of miles.

	S:	And is the church still open? K :	Yes. I’m still a member of it.

	S:	And what was the name? Is that Mt. Zura? K:	Mmhm.

	S:	Yeah. Brenda told me about that.





	K:	I’m still a member of that church. And I saw this secretary, and she [inaudible 17:30] for over thirty years in that church.

	S:	Nice. So you finished school in the seventh grade or the eighth grade? K:	No, I did twelfth.

	S:	Oh, right, because you went to ACT? K:	Mmhm.

	S:	And so what else was Newberry like when you were growing up?



	K:	Well, we was a little small, quiet town. And everybody knew everybody. But now you don’t know nobody. [Laughter] There’s so many people, you don’t meet people that are coming here now. I sit up here a lot of times and see so many people walking by I never seen before. But it was a quiet town, you know.

Everybody got along. ‘Cause everybody was concerned about other people. And everybody helped raise other children. It was nice.

	S:	And there’s no sense of community so much anymore?



	K:	Mmhm! Now you can’t even chastise people’s children no more. They get mad with you. They don’t even want you to say nothing to ‘em. But then, at that time, one of my parents, if I was doing something I didn’t have no business, my momma was gonna know it. And, then, they had permission to chastise me. So, you had to kind of walk a chalk line! [Laughter] Because somebody always was watching. Mmhm, yeah.

	S:	Ms. Williams was going to find out if you did something wrong. What did you do for fun around here—as a teenager, as a younger kid?





	K:	For fun? I didn’t have much fun. We would visit sometimes between services on Sundays. Maybe get together with another one of your friends, play and stuff like that. But through the week, you been busy. Momma always had something for you to do. Because we used to have to tote water to wash with. We had to tote water to wash with. You had to tote water to bathe with. We heated water to bathe with. We didn’t have hot water or nothing like that. It was always something to do. And you didn’t visit through the week. You worked through the week. She had something for you to do.

	S:	Right. You stayed busy and out of trouble.



	K:	Yeah. And my sister and I start arguing or something, she’ll find something for you. Mmhm. Yeah.

	S:	And how big was the house you grew up in? One room? Two rooms? Three?



	K:	Two bedrooms. Two bedrooms, a dining room, a kitchen. And it was a dilapidated, because it used to leak in it. We used to have to put our tubs and pots and everything you could get to try to catch the water.

	S:	Right. And you had a fireplace. Where did you get the wood from?



	K:	Yeah, we had a fireplace. And with the fireplace, you’d burn up in front, and cold in the back. [Laughter]

	S:	So, you had to sit right next to the fire?



	K:	[Laughter] Yeah. Because the house, it wasn’t—you know, it had holes in it. You could see through the holes—daylight! [Laughter]

	S:	You could see out?





	K:	Uh-huh, yeah. [Laughter] So I was the one had to get up in the morning when it was cold and make the fire. And that I hated very much, but I had that to do. So, I did it.

	S:	And where’d you get the wood from?



	K:	The wood. Well, it used to be a lot of trees around. And the man I married, stayed next door. He used to cut wood for us. And I wouldn’t likeded him then. But he would help Momma out, because she didn’t have a husband, you know? He would come over here and cut wood for us. And had one of those little wood heaters where you burn wood. And then it had—well, that’s what it had up in Momma’ house: a wood heater. But you had a fireplace in the house I was raised up in. And we would burn up in the front, we’d be cold behind. [Laughter]

	S:	And—



	K:	Well, somehow, we made it. [Laughter] S:	Right. Resilient.

	K:	Well, then, then, you know, you didn’t have no other choice. I mean, you didn’t think things were bad. That was the live we had to live. But now, when you think about it, it was bad! [Laughter]

	S:	It was different. It was different. Okay. And did Ms. Williams teach you, as far as dealing with White people, did she teach you the etiquette? Did she teach you what to say and what not to say, what to do and what not to do, as far as—?

	K:	No, she didn’t teach me nothing about dealing with White people. I grew up, I guess, knowing how to be with them. Because you knew your limits, you knew how far to go with them.





	S:	And how did you know that?



	K:	I guess because you knew they were supposed to be superior over you, you know. So, you knew how to handle them. I did, I knew how to handle them. You would say, “Yes, ma’am,” “No, ma’am,” stuff like that.

	S:	Right. And what were your experiences as a child like? Did you have very many experiences with White people here in Newberry as a child? I mean, outside of this Black community, did you have to deal with very many White people when you were younger?

	K:	No, no more—you know, when you go to the store, or something like that. When I was coming up, my sister and I mostly worked in the field. I was nine years old.

	S:	How old?



	K:	Nine years old when I went to work. The reason we started working because my grandmomma was washing and ironing for this White man, and he used to ran a store. And instead of giving her the money, he wanted her to trade it up in the store. And so, we got tired of that, so we went to work except Momma down.

We stocked up on ironing and washing for her. And I was nine years old when I first went to work.

	S:	And you washing and ironing, or working on the field?



	K:	Working in the field. Maybe hoeing, or pulling tobacco plants, or stringing tobacco. Things like that, that’s what we did in the fields. I started that at the age of nine. Mmhm.

	S:	So, he wouldn’t pay her with money, he would make her come into the store? K:	Trade it up in the store.





	S:	So, she washed a certain amount of shirts, she could get this amount of sugar. K:	Mmhm. Right.

	S:	Wow. And that doesn’t seem very nice.



	K:	It wasn’t nice. That’s why we stopped her from doing it. Mmhm.



	S:	Did you all have a lot of experiences like that? Were a lot of White people here in Newberry reluctant to pay you?

	K:	Well, no. No more than, you know, them she worked with. No more than those she did washing and ironing for. Well, she had no problems with nobody but this one. One person was ran the store. The rest of them would pay her in money, you know, when she would wash and iron for them. Whatever she charged them, they would pay up.

	S:	And did she say anything to them, or did she just stop working?



	K:	She just told him that she wasn’t going to do his washing and ironing no more.



Mmhm.



	S:	And did you all ever get called names, or treated badly?



	K:	No, because when we were growing up, we weren’t around Whites that much. Then the only contact mostly we had was in this, you know, like we had to go to the store, the post office, or something like that.

	S:	And how did that work? When you were in the store, were there different sections? Or would you have to wait for them to come out? Or what was the—?

	K:	Well, when we was in the store, they would wait on you because they wanted your money.

	S:	Okay. That makes sense. At least that makes sense.





	K:	[Laughter] And then, during that time, a quarter would go for five dollars now.



Mmhm.



	S:	You could get a lot! K:	Get a lot for a quarter!

	S:	Isn’t it depressing? [Laughter] K:	[Laughter] Yes, it is.

	S:	So, what kind of money were you and your sister making when you were working in the field?

	K:	Well, we were poor. We used to pick cotton; they used to pack cotton around here, and we would go pick cotton. I couldn’t keep that job, because I would go out there and I would pick cotton. You know, cotton is light. And they paid you by the pound. I don’t know about how many cents a pound they were paying, now. But they paid you by the pound. And every evening, when you’d knock off, they would weigh it, see how many pounds you had picked. And I was, I never could get over fifty pounds, because every day, I would pick fifty pounds of cotton.

	S:	Like, exactly?



	K:	[Laughter] Yeah. So, I dropped that job. Mmhm. I didn’t like that no way, picking cotton. But I tried it.

	S:	Hurt your back?



	K:	Unh-uh.



	S:	No?



	K:	Didn’t hurt my back, unh-uh.



	S:	And did you ever have to go into the White side of town, in Newberry?





	K:	Did I ever have to go?



	S:	Yeah. What was the White side of town like, in comparison to— K:	We never did do too much visiting on the White side of town.

	S:	So, did the Black community stay away from the White side of town? K:	Mmhm.

	S:	Right. Was there ever any bad things that happened in Newberry? Was there no racial violence or anything?

	K:	Unh-uh. [Inaudible 30:38]



	S:	So, Gainesville, I know in the late [19]60s, early [19]70s, was sort of a radical place. You know, the Movement had gotten there, and there was a lot of protesting in Gainesville. Did that ever reach here? Were there any protests, or people registering to vote out here in Newberry?

	K:	No, that never reached here.



	S:	No? And what were your experiences during the Movement? How did you know what was going on back then?

	K:	What you mean?



	S:	Like, did you learn about Emmitt Till when you were down here? K:	Who?

	S:	Emmitt Till. That boy in Mississippi that got beaten. K:	Unh-uh.

	S:	No? And what about Martin Luther King? How did you find out about him down here?





	K:	Well, we had radios, and we could hear news on the radios. Mmhm. Yeah. That’s how we would find out. We didn’t have any TVs.

	S:	Right. So, were you hopeful when the Movement, and you started hearing about the Movement? What did it mean to you?

	K:	Well, it meant to me that maybe it would cause Black people to have more privileges, and things would be better for Black people in the world.

	S:	Right. And what sort of privileges did you want while you were growing up in Newberry? What kinds of things did you wish you had when you were growing up?

	K:	Well, thing of it, too, it wasn’t too much I wished I had because I was in an environment where you thought you was doing all right. In the environment you were in.

	S:	Yeah, my grandfather was born in [19]21.



	K:	I was born in [19]24. I got a son staying in West Palm Beach.



	S:	Right, right, Brenda told me about him. He’s the one that works for the Cheney Brothers—the company?

	K:	Mmhm.



	S:	Right. Are you registered to vote? K:	Mmhm.

	S:	And when did you do that?



	K:	[Inaudible 33:32] in the [19]60s. S:	In the [19]60s?

	K:	Mmhm, been years and years.





	S:	And when you were growing up and you were younger, before the [19]60s, did you know any Black folks out here in Newberry that were registered to vote?

	K:	Unh-uh.



	S:	No? Okay. And what did the election of our president, Barack Obama, mean to you?

	K:	It meant a lot, to know a Black man had won president, won the highest office in the United States. It meant a lot to me. Because I voted for him. And I’m going vote for him next year. Whether he win or not, I’m going vote for him.

	S:	Me too. Yep. I cried. [Laughter] I cried when he got elected! K:	You did?

	S:	Yes. I sure did vote for him, though.



	K:	Yeah, I got a daughter, and she’s in a lot of politics. My baby daughter, she on the city commission here in Newberry. This her tenth year on the city commission. She retired from the police department. She was twenty-one years at the police department and then she retired. So now she’s a private detective. Her brother was on the city commission, too, this year.

	S:	Right, right. I saw the—I went to the park. K:	Martin Luther King.

	S:	And I took a picture of the sign. K:	Mmhm, yeah.

	S:	So, tell me more about your husband. You said you didn’t like him at first, and that he helped—





	K:	[Laughter] No, I didn’t like him at first, ‘cause he was raised by his dad. It was him and his sister, and his dad didn’t like to work. And he didn’t used to work. Coming up, he knew I had grew up in the field, his neighbors and all that, and we used to pick at him. [Laughter] And his daddy didn’t like to work, but daddy would always want to borrow some sugar, some flour, from poor Momma. But Momma always would give it to them whenever they ask, you know. And I don’t know, somehow, as we grew up, we start seeing one another, you know? And then, he went into the service and everything. And while he was in the service he would send me money and everything. That’s how I bought this lot here; I would save it. Save the money he was sending, I’d put it in the bank. And so this lot went on sale, and I bought it. I had bought this lot. I had a bank account and everything when he come out. And so he and I, we got married in [19]46. Yeah. [19]46, Brenda born in [19]48. We got married in [19]46, and we had been married thirty- nine years when he died. Mmhm. And during that time we had seven children.

	Because my baby boy passed. S:	Right. He was the firefighter? K:	Mmhm.

	S:	I saw his picture. And—



	K:	So, we knew everything about one another, because we grew up together. S:	Right. Was he a lot older than you? Or no, you were around the same age? K:	We were same age.

	S:	Same age?



	K:	Mmhm.







S:

So you guys went to school together, too?

K:

Mmhm.

S:

Yeah. And who’s this here?

K:

That’s my mom and grandmomma.

S:

Oh yeah?

K:

That’s my grandmomma that raised me. The smallest one, and the other is my



mom.

S:

So, that’s Ms. Melissa Williams?

K:

Melissa Williams.

S:

And what was your mom’s name again?

K:

Mabel Williams.

S:

Oh yeah, it’s right here.

K:

Yeah. She lived—she was ninety-nine years old when she passed.

S:

Yeah? Wow. Did she tell you stories from when she was growing up?

K:

No.

S:

No? [Laughter]

K:

No, she didn’t.

S:

Well, what did she talk to you about? Aside from telling you to do work?

K:

Who you talking about? My grandma?

S:

Yeah.

K:

I don’t know. I guess—I don’t know, I guess she told us to do the right things.



She would tell us what to do and what not to do, you know. What she liked and



what she didn’t like! [Laughter] And we tried to please her.





	S:	And what didn’t she like?



	K:	What else? She didn’t like—well, we didn’t have too much fun, because she didn’t let us go nowhere, hardly. We had to be home doing something. She kept us busy. She would find something for you to do.

	S:	Did you visit with your mother at all? Or did she stay in Williston? K:	Well, after she moved back here—

	S:	Oh, she moved back here?



K:  Well, we used to go and visit her through the summer. You know, when school was out? We would go visit her maybe for two or three weeks in Williston. And then we would come back home to Momma. Because Momma—see, my sister and I, we had different daddies. We didn’t have the same daddy.

S:  Okay. And how did you get back and forth to Williston? K:  In a car.

S:   Whose car?



	K:	Whoever was supposed to be driving it. [Laughter] Whoever had the car was supposed to be driving taxi, you know?

S:   So, somebody in the community?



	K:	We didn’t own the car. Unh-uh. Somebody in the community.



	S:	And what did you do when you went to go visit your mother for those weeks?



	K:	Nothing but sit around. [Laughter] Sit around and talk. We went to church down there, too. Church was always an option. Because all my parentswas, you know, Christians, church people. All but my daddy.

	S:	What was your daddy?





	K:	My daddy was a drunker. [Laughter]



	S:	No religion? [Laughter] And when did you learn how to cook?



K:   When did I learn how to cook? I learned how to cook when I was growing up at my sister’s. My sister used to try to teach me how to cook. My sister used to do all the inside work.

S:   Right, so she did all the cooking, and you did the all the outside?



	K:	And I did the outside work. And my sister, she used to try to teach me my prayers, you know? And I was a little stubborn. [Laughter] And she would say, “Sister, say ‘Our Father.’” I wouldn’t say one word. “Sister, say ‘Our Father’!” I wouldn’t say nothing. She say, “Momma, sister won’t say her prayer!” Momma say, “Well, if she don’t say them, I’ll be in there.” And she wasn’t joking! “Sister, say ‘Our Father.’” And I started saying my prayers. [Laughter] But I had to be made to say them. I guess, I don’t know, I was a little aggravated. And I loved to play, and she didn’t. And I would play outdoors, I would play ‘til night. Momma used to have to call me in the house by myself. And those lightning bugs, you know what I’m talking about? I’d be running out there, catching lightning bugs, put them in the jar and all like that. I used to love to play. And now, I coming up, I used to be able to sing and all that. I didn’t like singing no more. Boy, I was a [inaudible 43:07]. I guess that I was the youngest.

	S:	And who cooked better? Your sister, or Momma?



	K:	Well, you knew Momma cooked the best, ‘cause Momma the one taught her how to cook.

S:   What was your favorite thing to eat when you were growing up?





	K:	[Laughter] I didn’t have too much a favorite. Anything to keep from being hungry. [Inaudible 43:45] she planted some peas one year. And every time you turn around, we used to tell Momma, “Momma, we want some more peas.” [Laughter] So, the next year, I think Momma plant about four different kind of peas.

	S:	I didn’t even know there was that many!



K:  She said she planted that so we’d get enough of peas. We had this kind of peas, that kind of peas, and all. [Laughter] ‘Til we told her, “Momma, we tired of peas.” Mmhm.

S:   When I was at Brenda’s house, there was her Uncle Robert. Is that your brother, or is that—that’s your brother?

K:   Mmhm.



	S:	And so he was raised somewhere else? Because it was you, and Alena, and Momma.

	K:	He was raised by my momma. S:	Oh. Okay, out in Williston.

	K:	I was twenty-two years older than him. S:	Oh, really?

	K:	Mmhm.



	S:	Okay. So, he grew up out here in Newberry, or out in Williston? K:	Newberry. Right on this same street.

S:   Your family has deep roots in Newberry!



	K:	Mmhm. Yeah. Yeah, I got a daughter stays right between one and two, state house, on this street. Gail.





	S:	Okay.



	K:	And I got a son who’s a— S:	Preacher, right?

	K:	—Preacher. Stay right across the street over there. And Brenda stay on the next street. Mmhm. And all of them own they homes, their cars, and everything.

	S:	You did good!



	K:	Yeah, I think I did. I tried to, anyway.



	S:	You did a great job. And how was it when your kids were going to Mebane, and when they were starting to go to Newberry High? Like, what was your experience while they were in school?

	K:	Well, my experience was with them to stay in school and get they homework.



Mmhm. After it start on Saturday, they had to leave Mebane, though they hadn’t graduated, and had to come to Newberry, finish school here in Newberry. Some of them played sports, you know, and everything. And I used to would follow. My baby son played basketball, and I don’t think I missed the first game. And I guess that’s why I love sports now.

	S:	Yeah, Brenda told me about that.



	K:	That’s why I love sports, you know, following behind those children. And now, I’m a sports freak. [Laughter]

	S:	Yeah, Brenda told me that you’re a big Gator fan, too. K:	Mmhm. Yeah, I’m a Gator fan.

	S:	I see it right there.





	K:	Brenda finished to the university, and I have a grandson finished at the university. And Florida State, I had a daughter finish at Florida State, and three grandchildren.

	S:	At Florida State?



	K:	Finished at Florida State.



	S:	You like the Gators more than Florida State? [Laughter] K:	Oh, yes!

	S:	Good! [Laughter]



	K:	And would you believe my daughter who finished at Florida State, she flew to Boston to the football game tonight.

	S:	Oh yeah?



	K:	Mmhm. She up in Boston. Her and her son. And he’s a teacher in Tampa.



	Teacher in Tampa, her son does. S:	And have you ever been up North?

	K:	Yeah, I’ve been to Alabama, Georgia, Tennessee. Mmhm. Different places. I went to Arkansas.

	S:	Was that when you were younger, or when you were a mother already? K:	No, that’s since I been out [inaudible 48:39].

	S:	Oh, was there—do you remember what year Mebane got closed and they desegregated the schools?

	K:	Nope. I don’t remember what year. Brenda probably remember what years, but I don’t.





	S:	I’ll ask her. And was there opposition? Were people happy about it? Were they upset? How did you feel?

	K:	Well, I didn’t—you know, I hated for the children to have to be moved, but whatever you had to do, you had to do it. You know? So. The high school children from Alachua, High Springs area, they had to go to another school. And from the Newberry area, they had to come back home and go. So, the children was divided up then. But they had to do what they had to do. Whether you liked it or not! [Laughter]

	S:	And what was the White reaction to that? Do you know?



	K:	No, I think after my children start school up here, they got along fine with the Whites.

	S:	Yeah?



	K:	Yeah, they did. Them White girls was crazy about my son. S:	Yeah?

	K:	Mmhm! They used to keep the road hot trying to see him. [Laughter] Bring him home from school.

	S:	Really?



	K:	Yeah! Mmhm.



	S:	And he didn’t get in trouble for that? That’s— K:	He didn’t get trouble for it, unh-uh.

	S:	That’s something you hear about a lot.





	K:	Mmhm! Yeah. The White might have been sorry the Blacks started up there!



Because they couldn’t keep up with they daughters! [Laughter] They was behind them Black boys. Mmhm. Yeah.

	S:	Wow. Because usually—because I’m studying and reading about the Jim Crow era, and what it was like in other places, other Southern towns, and—

	K:	Yeah, Mississippi. They were kind of bad up there.



S:   Yeah, with the history program at the school, I actually, in September, I went up to the Mississippi Delta to do interviews. That was my first time up there, and it’s still really segregated. And I actually met the mother of a twenty-six year old man who was found hanging from a tree last year, in December.

	K:	Yeah, it’s terrible some places, still. S:	Right.

	K:	I guess we are blessed, around in this area.



	S:	Right. Because it was calm, and not a lot of fighting. K:	Right. And everybody respect everybody, you know?

	S:	Right. All right, if you have any other stories to tell me. Anything else you can think of.

	K:	I done talked more to you today than I talked this week. S:	Yeah? The whole week? [Laughter]

	K:	More than I talked this week! [Laughter]



	S:	Well, good. I’m glad. I’m going to the retirement party on Saturday. Yeah, so I’ll see you there.

	K:	Okay.





	S:	I’m bringing my friend Caroline with me. So, I’ll see you at that. I heard your granddaughter bought you a dress.

	K:	Oh, yeah! Mmhm.



	S:	So I’ll see you in that. I’ll be taking pictures and stuff. So, if you—you done? Or do you want to say anything else?

	K:	Unh-uh.



	S:	You’re done? Okay. Well, thank you very much, and I’m going to turn this off. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Ryan Morini, March 6, 2018 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Thompson, April 5, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 21, 2019