AAHP 383B; Moore; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 383B Johnie Moore



Interviewed by Daniela Lopez, Rachel List, and Julie Hernandez On December 7, 2017

37 Pages



Abstract:



Keywords: [African American History; Gainesville, Florida; African American History; Lincoln High School; Fifth Avenue Blacks;]



AAHP 383B

Interviewee: Johnie Moore

Interviewer: Daniela Lopez, Rachel List, and Julie Hernandez Date: December 7, 2017



	L:	Hello, this is Daniela Lopez with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. The day is December 7th, 2017 and I am here joined with Johnie Moore, Rachel List, and Julie Hernandez…So Mr. Moore, do you remember when Sarah’s restaurant had opened first in Gainesville?

	M:	I don’t know the exact date. L:	I believe it was 1961.

	M:	1961?



	L:	I believe so, around there.



	M:	This was the original, but this was redone, the facility was redone. 19… L:	That’s a great picture.

	M:	Sarah’s in that picture also. L:	Which one is she?

	M:	She is the person that looks like this.



	L:	Oh, ok so she would be which one? Would she be the one over here? M:	Mhm.

	L:	The left side?



	H:	Did you know her or are these photos like your photos of her?





	M:	Most of this was given to my wife when we opened our restaurant back in 2005 and at that time her facility was closed down because her husband was ill so she decided to just move out of the business. She lived, her property was on Seventh Street and the gentlemen who was working with her to finish a concrete building that was being put on her property, because that’s where all of her equipment and everything that came out of this was in. Prior to my retirement, he took all of this stuff, which Sarah’s son was also ill as well there was really nothing that they wanted. And because the guy, the developer, knew us and he and his company ate a lot at our restaurant he got together all of this stuff, not all of it…he got together a lot of it and said “Well, Mr. Johnnie you want all this?” And a lot of that was personal stuff because what Sarah did, she was a really powerful woman in the community and particularly with education to the schools. As a matter of fact, this is a nursery that she supported and it was originally called Saint Augustine Nursery School. But this is Bell’s Nursery this school is over in the same area that the high school was, the originally African-American high school was A. Quinn Jones. But he gave us all this stuff, my wife definitely did not know and neither did because a lot of it’s personal. Her husband was a Navy officer and what Sarah did was, she was the person to get students at Lincoln High School, particularly when they come into their junior year and senior year, to understand that you need to really fix your mind about what’re you going to do after you graduate, what are you going to do. And of course because things in that era many of those young men and young women who went out in the United States did that in pursuit of jobs or things that they could do to enter a college





somewhere. However, most of them went to the military, the Navy, and they would write these letters back to Sarah and they were just so…they would bring tears to your eye because these are students that was in high school and they would basically say if it wasn’t for you Mrs. McKnight, Mr. McKnight I would’ve never accomplished these things. And the bag of letters were just huge.

	L:	And she wasn’t even a teacher and she was able to do that?



	M:	Right, right. If you could see but I got rid of the personal record. Part of her personal record was there were many people, the population on Fifth Avenue and that community there was large. Ok? So, a lot of people would go to Sarah in the morning to eat breakfast or to get lunch and by her record a lot of those people did not have the money to pay for the lunch then. So, what she would do is let you get a lunch or a breakfast and then it’s, you know, and I.O.U and I knew some of those families but I just didn’t want to. Her son did not want the information, her daughter went to school in Virginia, I believe because she was the first African-American queen up there. There’s more information in regard to her I don’t know if you all, how long you all been here in Florida?

	L:	Well in Gainesville, specifically? M:	Yeah, at the University.

	L:	Yeah, I’ve been here for about two years.



	M:	So, have you ever heard the name Joel Buchannan. L:	Yes.





	M:	Ok, ok Joel was really the person who kept track of African-American history in Gainesville and unfortunately he passed away. But he did a extremely good job and there is a museum about eight blocks away, it’s called the A. Quinn Jones…oh well you all know about it..

	L:	We’ve all been, we went. [Laughter]

	M:	Of course a lot of these pictures, the young woman who is the director of the museum now, her mother and her grandfather run Duncan Funeral Home.

	L:	We’ve been working close with her. L/H?: She’s working on this project.

	M:	Good, good, good…she came over one day and her mama told us “Oh, well that Ruby’s restaurant Mr. Moore got a lot of stuff on his wall.” [Inaudible 8:16] so I let her get some of the stuff. But, I don’t know who has their property now but their property is on Seventh Avenue, like I said, and I think the guy who did the work took the house as well as the cinderblock building that really kept all of their supplies out of this. But, Now Blade, you all do know the name Blade?

	H:	Yes.



	M:	Yeah, Ok so he got one made. L:	Charles?





	M:	Yeah, he got one of these. Because He actually went to Tallahassee cause he didn’t like this, he didn’t like this picture being like this cause this is not a picture of the final Sarah’s restaurant.

	L:	Really? What is that a picture of? Is it the original?



	M:	He went and got the original, that’s correct, from Tallahassee and brought me a copy. I just had problems with people seeing things on my walls and then they would, you know. Cause I had a young man who father and I grew up in East Gainesville and we were very, very close and, of course, I did not know his wife or his children. But, he’s been dead at least fifteen years and one day his son came in the restaurant and he said “I heard you have a picture of my daddy up in here”? Cause Murphy was a drummer for Western Primm, The same group Mr. Blade worked with. and I said “OK, and who are you?”… “I’m Murphy Brockertin Jr.”… I said “You a Murphy Brockertin Jr.?...”Yes sir, Murphy Brockertin Jr.”…I said “I never knew about you, Murphy never said anything to me about it.”. The only thing he was there for was to see the picture of his father and then he came back a second time and said “Is there any way I could get a copy of that picture?” So I let him have it to get a copy of it cause he, he was a baby but he was a good fellow. Sarah, operations was real good but there was several events where folks did not want a woman selling licensed Liquaw…Liquor--

	L:	Yes [Laughter]





	M:	At that time, during that period there was just a lot of bootleggers all over the city.



But she did hers out of a lounge and all of these are from the Sheriff’s office. Is this the one?

L/H?: So, around what time would you say that Sarah’s had opened? Late [19]50s, early [19]60s?

	M:	It had to be the late [19]50s, early [19]60, because I never went in Sarah’s? L/H?: Like, ever?

	M:	Like, ever while I was living in my daddy’s house. [Laughter]

	M:	Cause if he had any idea, I went in where some booze was then and I was going to be in trouble. My first undergraduate degree was Florida A&M University in Tallahassee so I used to come home twice a month and I would always bring somebody…down to Gainesville and we start just a thing, we’d go in there and of course the music was good, the food was good, the liquor was not supposed to be.

	L/H?: Well wasn’t Gainesville a dry county at that time? M:	Back when she first opened.

	L/H?: When she first opened, ok. M:	Umhmm, umhmm…

L/H?: Did she have a liquor license or something like that?





	M:	I’m trying to find, I’m trying to find it. [Interview Interruption from cell phone] L/H?: Should I pause the recording?

	L:	Yeah, pause it.



	M:	A judge in Alachua County wrote a letter to her and to what was the governmental structure in Alachua County, at that time, approving her to be the type of woman and the type of owner who could have booze in her restaurant and it would be legal. Actually, no one who was under twenty one could go in there. Now, every now and then one or two people, you know, sneaked in there, got in there but you could not be in there if you was under twenty one.

L/H?: Quite like now.



L/H?: So it changed from more of like a restaurant to a club?



	M:	It had that triple diversity because she did everything real well and then she had her husband as monumental supporter because most of the kids who went to the Navy was dependent on Mr. McKnight and so Mr. McKnight would give them references for jobs and even the ones who never came back to Gainesville and stayed out west in California and other places, Mr. Mac would send letters of references and thangs for them. But, Fifth Avenue, as I’m sure you’re aware of, was the thing, the blood stream of the African-American population here in Gainesville. We moved from the west side of town and my daddy who was a construction contractor, built our house in East Gainesville off eighth avenue and





as I said my dad, his partners they just didn’t want none of us to have anything to do with booze. Although some weekends I came home and I didn’t go home.

[Laughter]



	M:	You know, we got hotel rooms and things like that. But, two or three times a month I would come here we would go into Sarah’s, and you had two competing restaurants…well you had more than two on Fifth Avenue at that time, you had Cato’s, you had Sarah, you had Mom’s Kitchen, and then you had Parker Barbeque. And I said competitive but they were not really competitive, they helped build up that area over there and Hane’s Grocery Store was on the corner and so it got a lot, a lot of business from the people livin’ in that area. And there are still a lot of people, some of them are still alive today, who had businesses.

Little Clara… The beauticians and all the people that actually was affiliated with Mr. A. Quinn Jones. Then they stayed where they were, right across the street from the school and their businesses did not just fall down, they stayed there because right now, even now there is three daycares there. Where, before there was only Bell’s Nursery and St. Augustine Nursery.

	L:	How long has your family been in Gainesville for?



	M:	How long has my family been in Gainesville? My family, the Moore’s, came out of South Carolina and moved to Campville, Florida and when we celebrate, and we celebrate our family reunion every year this year we were in Detroit. So, there is still two brothers alive that has the history cause we were doing the wrong thing, the kind of history we were…but, when Willie start talking to us about the history





we were working for slave-owners but we were not receiving no collateral because, you know, if I’m a slave owner and you ain’t got nowhere to sleep, I’ll let you sleep on my porch on the yard there. But, the whole family, the entire family all moved at the same time. And, are you aware of Campville, Florida? Ok, Campville is about four miles north of Hawthorne and as you going 301 N. you will see Campville and they probably gon’ change the name of the cemetery to Moore cause we got a lot of family that’s out there, as a matter of fact my wife is out there. They have been, when we did the Atlanta family reunion we…

[Phone interruption]



	M:	We were in the one hundred and thirteen year.



	L:	So, you have family history that dates all the way back there that you know about?

	M:	Absolutely.



	L:	That’s amazing.



	M:	Absolutely, but the family moved from Campville because there was some children that was lost because there were no medical facilities over there. So, all the family moved from Campville, although we still got property out there and got plots for burial plots and things like that in the cemetery. But everybody moved, now my father, his oldest brother, and his sisters all came to Gainesville. Then, there was another brother who is in Winter Haven with a very large family, as a matter of fact Johnnie Moore is not Johnnie Moore, Johnnie Moore got his name from Johnnie Moore. You, know that was my father brother so they gave me that





name and I kept that name until 1960, I’m sorry 1962. That was not 1962, was it? No, that wasn’t 1962.

	L:	How old would you have been in 1962?



	M:	In 1962 I was…in 1962 I was still in high school. I didn’t graduate from high school until 1966 but my name was always spelled J-O-H-N-N-Y. Well, after 9/11 Florida, of course, required you to come to re-do your license with a confirmed copy of your birth certificate. So I got mines right away, like that, and then all of the sudden on my birth certificate…J-O-H-N-I-E and my oldest brother and my oldest sister they’ve been picking at me since then. You know your name, but you know, everybody in college said Johnie J-O-H-N-I-E is not a man’s name.

	L:	So, did you have any relatives that attended Lincoln High School, like Old Lincoln?

	M:	Are you kidding me? We ALL went to Lincoln. L:	So all at new? Both of them?

	M:	I’m sorry?



	L:	Like, both high schools, both of the versions of it?



	M:	Yeah. My oldest brother is seventy-two, he graduated in [19]62. My oldest sister is seventy, she graduated in [19]64 and I’m sixty-six and my sister who lives in St. Petersburg was next and the only sis…OK Gwenn was after Gale and then our youngest sister graduated from Gainesville High School. She is an engineer for NASA in Huntsville, Alabama.





	L:	So, just to kind of go back to Sarah McKnight. So, you would’ve been in college when you’d visit right?

	M:	Mhm.



	L:	Do you remember what sort of bands or genre would play?



	M:	Well, they would popular bands because as you can see that’s what this is, that Sarah McKnight had a direct contact with musical industry in Virginia. So, she was asking for African-American groups and at that time Motown was just getting up and going.

	L:	So it was a lot of Motown groups?



	M:	Uh, well there were a lot of pre-Motown groups that they had, you know they were well known in their home state and home town but in order to get through Motown you had to do some things cause we…this is our second year, not second year but second time, we’ve been Detroit and go to Motown. Last time I went to Motown we didn’t see what we saw this year. This year we saw the graphic for everybody coming in, don’t care if you can sing, don’t’ care if you could play an instrument or anything else, this is how we live in this business organization. So, you have to do all these things, develop some character, develop some work skills, you had to do all these things before, I can’t think of the man name who own the place, but you knew his industry.

	L:	I see. So, do you remember any specific artist who would play? M:	Hmm?





	L:	Do you remember any of the specific artist who would play? I know that B.B. King was one of the names you just dropped, James Brown I think I’ve heard.

	M:	Yes, James Brown was here but, most of those groups…there was a club I’m not sure if they’re still out there, it’s out of Kingcaid Road and it used to be [Inaudible 59:12] and big and, you know, I had that kind of a loving father they were kind of country.

	L:	Is the place your describing the Cotton Club or the Blue Note?



	M:	The Cotton Club is still down there right now, matter fact it’s being turned of course, you would know, it’s called…

	L:	Cultural center?



	M:	Yeah, the university is helping ‘em with that and putting it together. I was on that committee with Vivian Fowler but they’re doing a good job on it right now and once they get that [Inaudible 58:38] road paved, re-paved is what they’re doing now, then that’s gonna be a place where there will be a lot of meetings and things go on because they are making difference between, what are they calling it, they’re making a difference and most people don’t know it was Cotton Club, unless you keeping that there on the church.

	L:	So, I’ve heard a lot about Sarah’s role with the Cotton Club, other people have told me that she had nothing to do with the Cotton Club. Do you know specifically, especially with the board, what Sarah’s role was? I don’t know if…

	M:	She had the contacts.





	L:	Ok.



	M:	Because these people, now I don’t know what happened to the last version of it. There is a man named Rodney Long who was a county commissioner and his brother [Inaudible 57:36], his brother also worked with this group and his brother couldn’t really see and I think hit broadway a couple of times, something happened with him. But she had these contacts and there wasn’t that many other places around here that would be inquiring about a popular group that could come to town. Now, Mom’s Kitchen was a little different, you know, cause Mom’s facility was [Inaudible 57:02] and so you can be eating and dancing at the same time. Well, most of those people went through Sarah because Sarah had this relationship with these people and, I can’t that letter that George wrote and said “Sarah’s place is the place to be and all that.”

	L:		So, Sarah’s place was the place to be. Are you saying that whenever they had the music, they didn’t have enough space for the food as well? Or would people usually eat while there was?

	M:	Oh no, oh no. It was a restaurant, it had tables in there and they have enough space in there so that if you wanted to come in and just be in there to listen to the music because Weston Prim would go in there and Weston Prim was one of the largest bands that was locally, [Inaudible 56:07] was invited to other places in Florida, particularly Daytona. It was, she had the space in there, she had the space in there. There was, at one time, consideration that she was gon’ rebuild but she was kind of like Diana [Inaudible 55:36]. She was so interested in helping our community even as a queen, I mean, she was second in line to become next





queen she used everything she could, of course and you’re all aware of that, to just make sure she can help people out, help the children, and you know those kind of things, and that’s what this lady was about. As a matter of fact, there are two junior colleges in Florida that she was, there was a Hampton School in Marion County, I think, and she would help them, she would advertise in her restaurant and, you know, back then there had to be a big push for getting students to revolt, African-American students, to move forward you were going to need education if you’re going to successful. Now one of the reason we have one of the largest high school alumni associations than anybody in the South, every two years, and what we find out is that we have all of these graduates and alumni that come from California, come from Texas, come from Canada, all over the place and they were, you know, students at Lincoln. Now, of course, that success is not just primary, they’re intellect. Their success and our success had to do with who those people was that was over in that school. Matter of fact, I’m a member of the Gainesville FAR Committee and we had this discussion again, we almost have it every time we meet, because there’s a retired professor on our group who was very interested in Lincoln Middle School and, of course, during her years of being a professor, you know, we had a good football team, we had a good basketball team, we had good academics, scholarly people going to doing things and she said “what happened, what happened why is Lincoln Middle School is not like Lincoln High School was?” Nobody said nothing at all and then I finally say well I can answer that question for you. “Sure, please do because I need to know, I need to know.” I said well, back in the day the doors was always open,





but it’s not so now, you know, if my parents, and my daddy was well known by the administration because he was construction contractor and so he did a lot of houses and thing in Gainesville so if he had to come to the school because I wasn’t doing, or my brother, or my sisters…my brother, my sister were good [Inaudible 52:05]. Cause mom and daddy left them in charge with everything even “when all y’all get to the same school if you see Johnnie running around like that in the hall and not in class, call the [51:53]. So, they kept us together they really kept us together and the school was kept together like that, that the older ones, I think, getting ready to leave and having influence of this lady.

[Long pause, interviewee searching for photo]



	M:	This man his name is Fred Alexander, he was the first African-American chef in Alachua County but he also was supervisors of the officers who had to deal with children who decided not to get on the bus to go to school but decided to walk and the [Inaudible 50:47] officials had to deal with Fred. Fred did such a lovely job, matter of fact, if you go on Fifth Avenue right now the, our restaurant was in three different, very, large areas. Well, originally that was Fred’s restaurant and he did a good job, he had a outstanding customer list cause everybody would go to Fred’s restaurant and all these men here, Colwinn, Coleman, Russ, Kendall, they all were people that of course, they were out in the community trying to make sure that children weren’t skipping school. Realize cause, my daddy knew all these people and I never forget one day he stopped me.

	L:	Trying to skip class?





	M:	Well, actually… [Laughter]

	L:	What’s that face mean?



	M:	Well, you know it was a day that I and that young man I was talking about that his daddy was a friend of mine we decided to just walk to school and of course from where my parents home is to Lincoln High School is a LONG way. So, we decided to go in a store called the Tackle Box, it was on the corner of Fifteenth Street and Hawthorne Road and it was primarily for fishermen, people who wanted to fish that’s why they call it the Tackle Box and it always be full, you know. So, we went in there one day and got a, well we didn’t go in there, I went in there with Murphy and Murphy got two packs of chewing gum, Juicy Fruit. Ok? I don’t know if he didn’t pay for ‘em, if he paid for one he didn’t pay for the other, they called the Police, [Knocking on table] they call Russ on me. Russ knew his mama real well and knew him real well, so. We grew up in a community that was, you know, worked together because when our house was finished there were no sidewalks on Eighth Avenue, Eighth Avenue was not a paved road. If you wanted some clear water that the city produced at your homes then you had to walk from my parents house all the way down to the one faucet that was there for you to get water to take back home. One little boy, I’m not sure if he died, but this parent gave him water, a glass gallon jug to go get the water and he was leaving and somebody was throwing a shoe at him and he tripped and fell.

	L:	Wow, who was throwing the shoe at him?





	M:	Never would know. We never…cause right now in that space there’s a huge apartment complex that’s owned by Mt. Carmel Church, ok? Back then we don’t know who actually owned the facility so [Inaudible 46:51]. But Sarah McKnight was a name in the community, anything she was connected to there were other people that wanted to be connected to the same thing also. Particularly in the communities were truancy was really, you know, truancy was you know a lot of kids skip school, or not go to school. Well, where did they go Johnnie? Well, we had a little store on the corner of Seventh Avenue and Waldo Road, as you going to Lincoln, that store called the Tempest Inn. So, if the bell rang for homeroom and you suppose to go to your homeroom, you know, most of the teachers start writing [Inaudible 46:07] there’s not a lot of children there, they was in the [Inaudible 46:02, store name from above?].

	L:	I see what you mean.



	M:	Yeah, right there on that corner, at the tip of the entrance. But, teachers, teachers lived on that line cause right there by Lincoln, what was Lincoln High School that is now Lincoln Middle School, is Williams Elementary. So, you got all these kids.

	L:	So, what would you say if you had to sum up Sarah’s role in terms of the community? What would you say is one of the most important aspects of her role?

	M:	I think the most important thing that I recognize, and I’m sure there are others who probably was students at Lincoln at that time like I was, that she didn’t have





a problem with giving, she didn’t have a problem with helping young people in this community. She was there and let me show you something right here. This is the Central Florida Medical, Dental, and Pharmaceutical Association and Women’s Auxiliary and there’s one woman on here that was, I’ve bout to say just like Sarah, but she was close and that woman was married to him, Dr. Banks.

And she was, if something was going on in the city, you know, I’ll never forget couple years ago meet with all the Democrats, get people to go on in and sign up cause we was gonna vote and it was such a good thing to see Mrs. Banks out there still doing what she was doing when…

	L:	So many years later.



	M:	Yeah, yeah. They were visible, they were visible, they reminded me of the people who lived on the street where we lived on at our house, on the street we lived on. Everybody on that street, every parent had a right by our parents you see ‘em doing anything wrong [loud smack].

	L:	So, do you think that integration hurt the business district and like [Inaudible 43:13]

	M:	Did it hurt?

L:   Like did it change things, like make it harder for everyone to be more together? M:   I would think that that would probably be…had some impact but integration,



really, wound up being separation and even though legally, by the law, it put you and me in the same school and same classroom and all that but, that might have been what you did in school, but when you got home it was different, it was





different. I never forget when I graduated from FAMU, my brother invited me to come up to Michigan because he thought that…can’t believe it. Michigan, there’s a college up there.

	L:	University of Michigan? Michigan State?



	M:	No, not University of Michigan that’s in Ann Arbor, this is in Detroit. And as a matter of fact we just did a big banquet at the college in July. But anyway, my brother was inviting me to come up there because he was in a school system up there and what was so unique about because so many of us have never heard of a chartered school. Not down here. But, my brother was working for a chartered school and he said “I want to show you something, stand right here in the front and just watch.” Cadillacs, every…very wealthy people. Downtown Detroit in a eight floor building was the chartered school and so even though he was in charter school he had a education association, he was a part of the association up there in Michigan so they did them well, they did them well. When computers went out every teacher got a computer, the union got the computers for them.

And I’m trying to talk to that man now, my brother, because he knows tradition well. He knows tradition, he knows what was tradition in the schools and that and all that but what he don’t accept is what’s coming behind you. So he’s retired, he’s been retired awhile but he still as involved in the community. I said why you going on, all these people see your yard, they see your grass and everything and it’s so beautiful they all want, they all [Inaudible 39:52] and get the money. SO, he’s one of the…he’s older, he is honest, he is trustful, and all of that but he is DETERMINED to keep things the way they were in 1950.





	L:	Before integration.



	M:	That’s correct, that’s correct even though it was a very tough environment for him because he graduated from Lincoln, he went to St. Petersburg Junior College in St. Pete, and then he got a little tired of that so he went to Louisville, Kentucky because he was interested in horses…unfortunately, he may have wanted to ride away from Kentucky there wasn’t one available. I keep telling him you are calling the younger generation that is behind us, you calling them kids they’re not kids.

These are millennials most of these people are forty, forty five years old, most of them have families, they have two or three children, they’re moving and they’ll step right on you if you in their way. What you have to do, because he’s a elder in the church and I’m a minister in the church so he calls me all the time about things. I said so you an elder and an elder is a mentor and all you have to do is step to the side, you got these young men and got these young people who are, really, they are helping our society, our country move towards being one.

	L:	That’s really beautiful.



	M:	So, integration was, integration was just not well accepted in the south at all because you just had so much that went on to it was just…I worked at a Jewish summer camp in the state forest out here in Marion County and that group of young people there, and it was so impressive to me because of course if you read the bible and see, you know, the jews didn’t have, back in the day, they didn’t have nothing to do with nobody else, but now here are these children out here and they are so together and I just took out my little camera out here and just took some pictures cause this is what we trying to get to, this is where we





need to be. We got this great country we’ve gone through enough so what we’re trying to do, and our Gainesville for All Committee what we’re trying to do.

Gainesville for All has been defined as the place that all of us can be and enjoy all the things, look at all this stuff that’s happening right now during the holidays. I mean I’m so impressed, everybody giving people stuff and finding stuff for people it don’t matter who you are or your ethnicity don’t matter at all. We giving, we supporting one another that’s what this lady was about.

	L:	What’s the Gainesville for All Committee?



	M:	The Gainesville for All Committee is a very large group of men and women in Gainesville, many of them are educators and educators administrators, many of them are business owners, many of them are people who are just interested in why there was only three hundred and fifteen suspensions in 2015 only, the West side of Gainesville. There was three thousand on the East side of Gainesville.

Well, so what have we done? We got to the schoolboard and get the superintendent to understand that these implicit bias’ got to stop.

	L:	And this is 2015 you said?



	M:	That was in 2015. Actually that began in 2015, the Gainesville Sun did it, the guy who was over it was a reporter in New York State. What place was he at in New York? But he’s a good man he got a big awards Friday out there at Hilton, for what he’s doing now. But the remain now is that ok, let’s get Gainesville For All to be for all, some of these things we want to have done we want to have done! We would like to know that there are jobs over there, there are jobs over there and I





told somebody yesterday at church. I say do you realize that after school programs don’t cost no money? They’re free! Now, if you don’t have a car or a bicycle that you could take your child there well that’s another thing. But, it’s free it’s going in the direction of what I see that millennials want to go in that direction. It’s about time that we stop killing one another. This…let me bring this to you, as you probably are aware that Fifth Avenue was, there was a lot of crime in Fifth Avenue…a lot. There was even some murders on Fifth Avenue. So, that did not stop people coming cause on the side of town that I lived on, you know, we’d go out there, get in the car, and come over here. But, we had to do something to get that, this lady here [Points to picture] this lady who owned Mom’s Kitchen, Mama Lou you take her, these women together and they, THEY were the people who made sure that… if you got underage adults in these places where the booze is being sold and all that they are going to report you, they are going to report you. Mr. Chestnut had a fountain, ice cream, and all that stuff and he was way an old man, he was well received, well received he was a minister, all his children was there. But, the thing is that if you begin to get people to work together that’s one of the things that we are doing right now, that I’m doing right now. I’m the administrator of a literacy pro…family literacy program at our Church and I’m trying to get the family, the moms and the dads to realize that the first thing we gon’ do here is do parent empowerment. “Well what you mean by that brother Moore?” Well, you know, as parents I might suffer something and don’t know how to get out of it or don’t know how to deal with it and there’s another parent right there who went through the same thing you went through and he or she





could tell you how they got out of it. But, we don’t really, in the past, we don’t have a history of doing that but it’s coming, it’s coming. Because we got a lot of people who are, our next meeting at Eastside, cause we’s at the Gainesville Sun Monday and we had three lady’s in there and they were solid they set things on fire because this was their first time there and one lady was a latino and they was just, they was talking that almost everything that came up, their question was Why? Why? And of course Gainesville For All and Gainesville For All is leaning up against the University of Florida because there are some talent here and been there for a long time. I played French Horn and Cornet in this, matter fact you might even see me on here. Let’s see if I got a picture on there, let’s see…let’s see. I knew I had two pictures. Oh, Lincoln High School Band. You might see me on there if you can pick.

	L:	What year is this?



	M:	That’s 196…no, no, no, no I’m not on there. I’m not on there, I was in the band at Lincoln High School the school out here, this is A. Quinn Jones Center so no I wasn’t on there cause that stayed. Now, this man of course, Jerry Mill, was the band director and his wife was the core director and they stayed. Oh, he was a tough man. He took my horn from one night in South Carolina cause I use to get up before the drum major put his baton up for us to play, I used to get up [Inaudible 54:56]. He came up there and took my horn, so when halftime came I had to be on the field with all the rest of the band but I didn’t have my instrument.





	L:	I have a question about something you said earlier. You said that you would, like when you came to visit in college that sometimes you wouldn’t stay at home.

Where would you stay?



	M:	Well, most of the people I brought here to Gainesville were, you know, female college students. And I brought some of the guys here periodically, but we would get a place.

	L:	Have you had any experience with Marie’s Boarding, Marie’s Boarding House? M:	Marie’s Boarding House?

	L:	It was on Fifth Avenue, have you ever heard of it?



	M:	I’ve heard that name but that is, that was something that…they called it a boarding house?

	L:	Marie’s Boarding, that’s what it’s under in the map. M:	In the map?

	L:	Yeah. I’ve heard some scandalous things. But, I just wanted to know if you knew anything about it?

	M:	I knew that, that as well as the bowling center out there. Everything that our parents thought would influence us in a negative way, we, I know what happened in my house. My dad [Inaudible 56:52].

	L:	So people thought that it would affect you in a negative way? Your parents would want you to stay away from there?





	M:	Yeah….one night my sister, my oldest sister, was coming from work and she saw me on Fifth Avenue and I was just, just standing by the booze house and she saw me walking away from it. She said “Stop the car, I’ma tell Dad on you [Inaudible 57:34]. And sure enough when I walked in that house Daddy was right at dat door. “Didn’t I tell you you not suppose to be at those kinda places?” and part of that is, so much of the crime and the danger that happened, happened as a result of two thing. Either you a drunk, because back then marijuana wasn’t, marijuana wasn’t as popular as it is today. But, booze. My father knew that he had two sons, so we wasn’t the greatest of lovers {Laughter} but, you know, he knew that we had some friends, some female friends. He knew that I had some, Robert went to St. Petersburg. But, he and mama was careful with us that you can have a girlfriend, and this is what they did they said “No, no, no a GIRL for a FRIEND.” That was you can have. You can have a girl for a friend but you can’t marry nobody until you get over twenty one. You can’t have no children from nobody. And they were, not even what four sisters and my sister in St. Pete she likes to send text every morning. But, all of them knew that, all of them knew that and we didn’t really have a mama or daddy who spanked you a lot. We had a mama who grew up on the farm, her father owned a farm, he had a fish camp, and he planted about 18 acres of pine trees for my brother to inherit. So, where the Sheriff Ranch is out here in Live Oak, that was his property, but none of his sons really. This is a good city, it’s always been a good city. I know at one time my mother worked for a lawyer and his wife and she primarily, you know because she grew up in a farming area and she was a good cook, she was a good clean





up things and all things, and she was working for Mr. and Mrs. Day and Mr. and Mrs. Day would ALWAYS bring her home and ask “Can we see the children?” “Can we see all of them?” Well, we were, my brother left as soon as he graduated so he wasn’t there a lot. My sister, actually, my oldest sister was here at the University. But, they just wanted to see us, they just wanted to see us. And we would walk out the door, Mama would let us come out the door “How you doing? How you doing? How you doing?”

	L:	When did Fifth Avenue first rise to the community that it was?



	M:	Well, because of the idea that Fifth Avenue was nothing but liquor, and food, and criminal activity it took a while, it took a while. Because if you know Fifth Avenue then you know that there are a lot of worship centers all around. Everywhere. As a matter fact before my son and I closed down our restaurant, every church “Oh, please don’t close it down, please, just please, don’t close it down we’ll do anything we can do”. And it was those churchs that really helped Fifth Avenue get from down here to up here, cause this man, Dr. Banks, and Dr. Cosby. Dr.

Banks was the first African-American physician in Gainesville that worked at Alachua General Hospital. Dr. Cosby was the first professional dentist here in Gainesville and Dr. Cosby was the man that went to the schoolboard and told the schoolboard “I will clean all these children teeth every day for free” and that was when, that was the only school we had over there. And he was primarily concerned, like most of us should be, with the younger children, you know, you want to keep good teeth and good gum and everything, you need to clean it and he did it and unfortunately, well not unfortunately, but he passed away, he and





his wife, and has a daughter that’s a lawyer, he has a daughter that’s a dentist. And if you go on Sixth Street, by the Gainesville Police Department, you’ll see a building going up called Youth Build, it is the business facility where both Dr.

Banks and Dr. Cosby worked in there for years, it’s a beautiful building. But, now they have done just some extraordinary stuff to that because it got a program where all the dropouts can go through that program, but they can’t handle thirty-one students per term and give them opportunities to get good jobs and those kind of things. And they’re successful, Jonathan who was over that group

want me to work with him because I was the Director of the Gainesville Job Corp. Center for eight years and I worked for [Inaudible 1:04:22] Economic Development Company which is out of Los Angeles, California. And we had some good job corp. centers we had seventeen during that time, one in Pittsburgh, one in Massachusetts, and so we got the chance, or I got the chance, to travel around the country and look at all these facilities and try to figure out how can we make these young adults be successful, because most people at that time thought that you went to Job Corp. because you was a criminal or you went to Job Corp. because there was no school that could, you know. Never forget the day that the F.B.I came…and the Job Corp. center in Gainesville, of course you all know, it was out there on Waldo Road, North of the airport, but now it ain’t out there no more cause the Federal Government refused to rebuild it. And we got students from all over the country and what I did as the director, I went to businesses here in Gainesville one of them was the Gainesville Sun and I negotiated with them a contract that if you don’t write anything in this paper that





some of the students at the Job Corp. did then I’ll do whatever it takes for me to get them same students and go out there paint your buildings, to go out there and do your yardwork, and we had such a dynamic relationship. Cause, you know children, they got in trouble every now and then but when you got in trouble, I wrote you a letter to your mama or your daddy, your grandmomma or your granddaddy, or whoever it was that was that was helpin’ raise ya. And that letter said this “Dear, Ms. So-and-so and So if this letter is open when your grandson get to the house then make sure you tell him there will not be one Job Corp. Center out of the one hundred and four in the United States of America that he could ever attend again”. So, I got young men and young women in the city now that I don’t recognize, I don’t know them but they know me. I mean, one boy hit me in uh…What that place called? Walmart…[hitting noise] I said, what’s wrong bruh? “Man, don’t tell me that. You know who I am! I was one of the worst students in the class” Oh yeah, he sure was. [Laughter]

	L:	So, what period would you say was Fifth Avenue in it’s prime? Like the [19]40s, the [19]50s?

	M:	The late [19]50s. The late [19]50s because if I, and I started to do this but I didn’t talk to you about it because there are alumni’s in our class who, a lot of them are still here, and they got so much more information in regard to Sarah because they were older than I am. A lot of my information, Joel and I was in the same class and he graduated from was Bucholtz or Gainesville High? Gainesville High. He still talked, he would come to the restaurant and writing down stuff.





	L:	Did you know anything about Wabash Hall or Glover and Gill Grocery, at all? Do you know anything about that?

	M:	Not a whole lot, I’ve heard the name.



L:  Where do you think this photo was taken? Was this at Sarah’s? M:  It was taken, yeah, at Sarah’s. Matter fact….

L:  No, where they were? M:  They were at Sarah’s. L:  Oh ok.

	M:	Cause if you were to walk in, well Ok that’s the walk in now but, if you can see the other copy of her building that Mr. Blade got you will see. And one of the things that happened is that, if you walked in there to come and eat and you know that there’s going to be some music there a band there, they would be sitting right here. This is along that wall.

	L:	I see, could you describe anything else about how it was on the inside?



	M;	It was, first of all, C-L-E-A-N it was clean. She kept it clean and she had, her son worked there sometime, the daughter when she would come home she would be there with Mom sometime. But, she and her husband really made the most contribution to the restaurant itself. The food was acceptable, if you had Sarah here and Mom Kitchen, the difference would have been that you will not at Sarah’s have people just going on and {inaudible 1:09:44} and caring on out in front, you wouldn’t have that. Whereas, down at Mom’s you would have that





because Mom’s got two complexes, they had the one on the Northside of Fifth Avenue and then her husband had the one on the Southside of Fifth Avenue, so that was just a lot of ruckus down there. Parker, down on the end down here, matter fact you might find graduates from the University of Florida who stayed at Parker’s a lot, who ate at Parker’s a lot. Parker did barbeque and so he had a lot of customers.

	L:	How would you describe the food at Sarah’s? M:	Good.

	L:	Yeah, do you know like what specifically she had or?



	M:	I don’t specifically remember all of the things she had but she had quite a, I don’t know who took that menu, she had quite a comfortable menu for things and as I said earlier, you know, there were people who went in there at breakfast, there were people who would come at lunch, and then there was that evening group that would be in there. But, they respected, everybody respected her. When you walked in there you, this lady is really known as a dynamic business manager here in Gainesville, so let’s do anything, let’s not tear up her place, let’s not go on because that. As a matter of fact I stopped going down here, I would go in Sarah’s periodically but by the time I finished my degree in Tallahassee then things were transformed. Cause a lot of things that was on here, all of the sudden now are out there. So, it was transforming only because of business, things were getting a little better in East Gainesville, roads and highways was getting better, and those kind of things. But, I had a very good restaurant, it was named after





my wife and we just had so many customers. And so my son decided that “well, you know daddy, you know, we gotta close down.” So I said Well son, and that’s my oldest son, I said well if that’s what you feel like then let’s do that, let’s do that. And neither he nor I took any, do you know what were doing? Because right now everywhere I go, I can’t go anywhere because folks are confronting me “Why did y’all do that? Why did y’all do that?” I said “Well, you know, we”. Really, the reason why we closed down there on Fifth Avenue because that building was at least eighty-five years old. And there’s a new complex being done in the East on Hawthorne Road by the G-Tech building, now I want us to reupped it, the restaurant in that side of town but, this guy, Jerold Duncan, it was because of he and the young men that, that group I’m so proud of, the millennials. Because they are so well accepted now, in the city to the idea of painting houses, doing all kind of things for people everywhere and everybody is just proud of that, proud of that. It’s something that we need to teach to him, and he teach to her, and we keep teaching, and our city goin’ to be, you know, one of the best cities in the state.

	L:	We need service.



	M:	Yeah, yeah. This school, my daughter who just called me here I went outside to talk to her she said “I just called to let you know that J.P. got the scholarship!” I said “He did?” “Yeah, he got the scholarship.” I says ok so, she sent him to Ohio last week, that was the first time he was up on an airplane by himself. And he went to Ohio to be lead around with some college up there, but he actually want to play football. So, he want to, they are Florida Gators, they daddy is a Seminole. But, I loved that group of grandchildren because J.P. is the oldest,





Jocelyn is the second oldest and that girl is so, Oh my goodness. That girl is so sharp with technology, I bought a new car last November, an Equinox, it got all this, like stuff in it. I didn’t know nothing, she got in the car when we was traveling to Detroit and she was sayin “Granddaddy you need to this, you need to do that.” I said “Write that down, baby.”

	L:	Would you be able to describe the atmosphere at Sarah’s when you would go in your college days?

	M:	It was always very greedy. Because Sarah got to know me a little bit, not that well, but she got to know me and so she would, when we walk in the door with our [inaudible 1:15:57] flags and everything, “So y’all coming in again?” and of course we were customers and we would be there. But, the atmosphere was good atmosphere, you just didn’t have a whole lot of profanity that was a great place to be. Now, we took it as the community showing respect for this lady cause this lady ain’t just here in this kitchen every day and in this restaurant, this lady was out there in the school system, she was out there working for young children, she was out there trying to get you to go to the polls and vote, and all of those things and those things meant so much for her. I’m sure everybody wish that she was still around, even to this day cause I mean, you got somebody who give a contribution like that, particularly a woman, who was giving that contribution and you see it, and you see its impact on your children and some adults. And probably if you go in that area where her restaurant was, and they are still some families, some, not a lot of families, who was there all this time, they were probably give her an A, cause she was just that way, and her husband.





And, now I regret that I throw away all those letters from all these students from all over the country and some of ‘em was from out of the country, in Japan, or the Marine guys, Okinawa, they was just “Thank you, thank you so much for giving me this opportunity to see the world like this.”

	L:	Thank you very much, do you guys have anything else to add?



H:  I just have another question, you mentioned Cato’s Sundry as a big competition for Sarah’s and Mom’s was it a restaurant? Or was it more of a convenient store, kind of thing?

M:  It was not like a convenient store at all because it was, he had two stores and most of us loved his ice cream, and his, what has he made….

H:   Hot dogs, I heard about the hot dogs.



	M:	Oh yeah, loved it, loved it. But, Mr. Cato and Ms. McKnight were like this. H:	Ah, they were close.

	M:	And then on the very end of that little piece of property there where Cato’s was, there was a Haines Grocery Store and Mr. Haines was a Caucasian.

	H:	Was he the only one in the community, Fifth Avenue, that owned a business?



	M:	Yep. Yeah, he was. But, he was, you know, he was solidly accepted because, at that time, as I’ve said earlier there are a lot of people that needed things that did not work, that did not have a job, could not, you know. Matter of fact, Mr. Haines brother owns, well he did own, a store, a grocery store like that in East Gainesville. But, now that place is one of the City of Gainesville Park and





Recreational Center’s, where the kids after school can go in there use the computers and just, and that’s working real good for the Duvall community. But, no most of those people like that I don’t know who owned the liquor store, well it’s not really a liquor store, it’s called a lounge.

	H:	Wigwams? Is that the one you’re talking about? M:	Wigwam…you know about Wigwam?

	H:	Yes. [Laughter]

	M:	You know bout Wigwams, yeah.



	H:	Would you go there? Did you go to Wigwams?



M:  Uh, not a lot I, that’s where my sisters always stepping out the door. H:   Oh that’s the one you were talking about before!

M:  Yeah, but most of those people, once again, my daddy family was on this side of town, my grandmom and all of them. So, that was, they had a good relationship. You know, it was bootleg was really big then.

H:  Because in Gainesville you couldn’t sell right? LI:  Unless, you had a permit like Sarah.

H:   You needed a special permit.



	M:	But, that didn’t stop and I’m sure you are all aware of that cause it happens everywhere. Just cause you have a license to sell moonshine, them guys that





make that moonshine, they gon’ sell it and somebody gon’ drink it. But, most of the businesses on that street had a good relationship. Now, that woman who is, she is from…she’s from the Islands and she’s been there now for about fifteen years, cause once we installed our restaurant over there, word got out that she was losing, she wasn’t getting as many customers as she thought she was initially. Nevertheless, she still there, she still there but she sell booze now.

	L:	Who is this?



	M:	What is her name?



	L:	Or what business is this?



	M:	It’s called, it’s right there on the corner across from right as you walk across the street to the new Santa Fe building. The restaurant is right there and it’s called.

	L:	Could it be Fletcher’s?



	M:	No it’s not Fletcher’s. This people are from Puerto Rico and they have business, but they business of course got very productive once they got a liquor license.

	H:	What about Fletcher’s? Fletcher’s is newer, right?



	M:	Not really, Fletcher, Mr. Fletcher of course is dead. He’s got two sons, well he had two sons Aaron and Allen. Aaron run’s Fletcher’s now, Allen went to California he’s dead. Mr. Fletcher was also in that category, he was a good man, he was a good man. And you could go in there even now, cause his son do it now.

	L:	It’s still open.





	M:	Yeah, yeah it’s still open. You can go in there now, you go in there and raise a scene either Aaron gon’ drag you out there or the police gonna drag you out there, they just not gonna let it happen. And that is one of the things that satisfies so many people who are living there, across the street on the other side of the street because, you know, most of you alcoholics you get this idea that you can just go out there and do anything you want to, it’s not like that. But, Fletcher’s been there a long time.

	L:	Since when? Would you know?



	M:	Oh gosh, it had to go back to the same era that Sarah, oh yeah he’s been there a long time. So, Fletcher, Mom’s Kitchen, Sarah, Mr. Haines, Wigwam [Laughter]. Cause Wigwam actually, although he did a booze thing here, but that place out there where the music and all the bands used to be, he was into that too. Matter fact I think he might’ve owned that.

	L:	Alright, I’m good.



	L:	Alright, thank you so much for joining us. H:	Thank you.

	M:	Oh I appreciate it.



	L:	Thank you very much. [End of Interview]

	First Draft:	Henry Alvarez, April 26th, 2018 Audio edit:	Charity Kelly, May 1, 2019





	Final edit:	Charity Kelly, May 17, 2020