AAHP 468; Rawls; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 468 Yvonne Hayes Hinson-Rawls African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Ryan Morini on July 24, 2012 33 minutes | 17 pages



Abstract: Ms. Yvonne Hayes Hinson-Rawls is being interviewed by Ryan Morini in Gainesville, Florida on July 24, 2012. The interview begins with Ms. Hinson-Rawls describing what it was like to grow up in the Springhill neighborhood of Gainesville, as well as the significance of the local Lincoln High School, one of the only segregated schools in the South that was fully accredited by the association of Southern schools and colleges. Ms. Hinson-Rawls recounts being the first Black woman to integrate University of Florida’s Tigert Hall. She participated in sit-ins and other Civil Rights Movement demonstrations. Ms. Hinson-Rawls then describes the impact of Obama’s presidency and potential re-election.



Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Gainesville; Lincoln High School; Sit-in; Woolworth; Civil Rights Movement; Obama]











































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 468

Interviewee: Yvonne Hayes Hinson-Rawls Interviewer: Ryan Morini

Date: July 24, 2012



	M:	Okay. So, this is Ryan Morini it is July 24, 2012. I’m here with Yvonne Hinson- Rawls in our offices at Pugh Hall. Could you please state your full name?

	R:	Yvonne Hinson Rawls.



	M:	Okay, and that includes the maiden name, or—?



	R:	My maiden name is Hayes, actually, and there’s a long line of Hayeses in Gainesville, so Hayes is a name I’ll probably had take to my grave.

	M:	Well, all right then I’m glad I asked. When were you born?



	R:	I was born November 30th. You want to know the year? 1947. M:	Okay. That won’t go into the video, it’s just record-keeping.

	R:	It’s okay, I will be sixty-five this year and I am looking forward to all the amenities that come along with being sixty-five. [Laughter]

	M:	Fair enough. And so you were born in Gainesville?



	R:	Absolutely. I was born in a little house on Southeast 7th Avenue. Not an arms throw away from the Cotton Club that their trying to restore. So, I was born right near the Cotton Club. I walked to school on Southeast 7th Avenue to Joseph Williams Elementary and I went to Lincoln High School right down the street. So, it was a full service community.

	M:	Were you born at home? R:	Yes, with a midwife.

	M:	Do you know who the midwife was?



	R:	No, but I probably could find out. My mom is still alive. M:	Be interesting to know.





	R:	It would be. I think that in fact I’m even interested in owning the property because it’s sitting vacant right now and I’ve been thinking about it.

	M:	Is that the Springhill neighborhood by the way?



	R:	Yes, good for you. Because there’s a Springhill Baptist Church that’s not in Springhill, it’s on Sugarhill, but it originated on Springhill and a lot of people think that’s Springhill where the church is. But good for you, that’s Springhill where the Cotton Club is. [Laughter]

	M:	Fair enough. What was it like to grow up in the Springhill neighborhood?



	R:	Well, it was a real sense of community. I mean everybody raised you, you belonged to everybody and if your parents or your guardians had to work somebody fed you, you never went hungry and if someone got news that you had misbehaved everyone could discipline you. You were everybody’s child. We were all—I mean you didn’t mess up in that community cause somebody would tell somebody and it would get back to your parents and you might get a double dose of discipline. [Laughter]

	M:	And what about Lincoln? What were your experiences like going to Lincoln?



	R:	Well I actually started Lincoln High School in sixth grade. Williams Elementary I believe was overcrowded and so they moved the sixth grade over to Lincoln High School. So, instead of starting at seventh grade like most traditional high schools were back in the day, I started in sixth grade. We were self-contained so we didn’t mingle or co-mingle with the other kids, but we were there so we were fully acclimated by the time we got to seventh grade, it felt like home.

	M:	Do you have any particular memories of going to Lincoln?





	R:	Absolutely, it was a family as well. The thing that I remember the most was it may have been one of the only segregated schools in the South that was fully accredited by the association of Southern schools and colleges. So, that was a real accomplishment for us and we could feel proud of the education that we got and everybody I know that is a graduate of Lincoln High School before it moved into integration are successful, resourceful people, fully adaptive, flexible, and able to survive, really. [Laughter] And at Lincoln High School we had the ability to follow a college preparatory track. There was brick masonry in school, there was beauty culture in school, there was tailoring, agriculture, many different trades that when you graduated you were able to either start your own business or go and work for a company with the skills that you needed without a college degree. I, myself only took typing so that I could do my own papers without paying someone and low and behold, did not go to college right away, I thought I would, but I didn’t and I needed a job and I was the first Black women to integrate Tigert Hall. I worked in the personnel office at Tigert Hall as a clerk. I was a filing clerk in the back room. I worked my way from a filing clerk to a clerk typist too, I’m very proud of that. I was a very fast typist and I became a supervisor. Who knew?!

Before I even went to college. [Laughter] Yup.



	M:	That’s impressive. While you were at Lincoln did you ever get to know Prof.



Jones?



	R:	A. Quinn Jones? M:	Yes.





	R:	I did not know him personally. There was a Lincoln High School before the new Lincoln High School, and they changed the name to A. Quinn Jones. I did not know Prof Jones, but his wife was my English teacher—

	M:	Okay.



	R:	Who was a formidable force all her own. [Laughter] She was my English teacher and she left a lot of her ways in us because she was very stern, very graceful, very firm. She was very traditional and she ensured that we would follow a very narrow path. [Laughter] She ensured that and most of our teachers were like that.

	M:	That’s what we’ve heard. yeah. R:	Yes.

	M:	So, you graduated from Lincoln what year? R:	1965.

	M:	[19]65. Okay, so that would have been an interesting time to be coming out of high school.

	R:	Well, that’s the time Kennedy was assassinated. M:	Uh-huh.

	R:	And that it may be the very same year that Martin Luther King was assassinated. They were very close proximity and they left a very serious impact on most of our heart, souls, and minds. It happened the year we were in senior high school, and I believe I was a senior that year. I can remember kids running up and down the hall in tears because John F. Kennedy was assassinated. He was our hope for Black Americans, he was the hope for our future.





	M:	What kinds of discussions do you remember taking place around that time?



	R:	Well, I can’t remember specifically. I can only remember the emotions it evoked. I can remember the Cuban Crisis. Very vaguely I can remember how stern he was, how confident he made us feel, and how safe he made us feel and we felt that there was nothing going to happen to the United States of America while John F. Kennedy was president that he couldn’t handle.

	M:	So, was there much talk of politics in your home around that time or in your life?



	R:	Only during the era that I can remember. Only during the era of John F. Kennedy and Martin Luther King. In fact, those portraits hung in our living room, both men. And my grandmother of course was a very serious politician, even though not an activist. She talked a lot about Hoover days and how things were in those days. So, left a very serious impression on us about a recession. She never called it a recession, she always called it Hoover days and she lived her life as though Hoover days might return until John F. Kennedy became president. She stored food every winter for the winter, she packed away money in her mattress, she never put her money in the bank, it was in a coffee can in the ground or in a mattress because of Hoover days. All of her behavior was centered around her remembrance of Hoover days. I don’t know what that meant. I do know we couldn’t get her to put her money in the bank. [Laughter] She kept food growing in the garden, she would can food, can jelly, I mean really, it was serious for them. And I think everyone in her generation was like that. We laughed at—I mean there were times we laughed about it.

	M:	I can imagine.





	R:	Thinking it was a little silly, but we might be experiencing Hoover days today. M:	That’s true.

	R:	If she were alive she might say, “Mmhm. I told you so”. M:	Well what kind of impression has that left on you?

	R:	Well, going through a recession of course I started growing my own food again.



Of course my pantry is stocked, I keep a lot of water in the house, it’s crazy I know. It’s a little silly, but things do get—impressions are made. They make a real serious impact on you and so you start thinking, what if? What if you can’t get this or that, and these things are non-perishable you could store them for a while and so I do. And so I do. I try to grow my own food. I’m not as successful with it as she is, but I really do try. I have a lot of her ways my siblings tell him— I’m the oldest of six children. I look like her as I age, I act like her, and I have a lot of her ways. So, I’m almost in tears talking about my grandmother.

	M:	I can understand. So, did you take up much interest in the Civil Rights Movement?

	R:	Absolutely! During the Civil Rights Movement I’m gonna say I might have been ninth-tenth grade, maybe later but I walked, I did a lot of picket lines and sit-ins. I’ve literally sat in driveways with other kids with our arms locked to keep cars from coming in people’s driveways—parking lots. We’ve sat at the Woolworth. I don’t know Woolworths goes way back I don’t know how far back you know, but we’ve sat at their lunch counters trying to get food, we’ve gone too—there used to be a College Inn across the street over here. This is a funny story. We went in trying to get food, of course we couldn’t, and later on I ended up working there.





Working there serving food [Laughter] because I needed the money and I thought, “You know, I couldn’t come in here in the front door, but here I am coming in the back door working.” [Laughter] But I used to tell the supervisor that all the time, “Yeah I knew I’d get in here one way or the other”. [Laughter] But the Florida Theater, we picketed in front of the Florida Theater, it used to be a theater really, it’s now a nightclub. I got to see that in action the other night.

Phew! There is really a nightlife around here after midnight. Jeez! [Laughter] Anyway, there was a Rose Theater that we went too and it was perfectly fine. We were fine with it until we started the Civil Rights Movement and then we wanted to get into the Florida Theater. I don’t know why, we had the same movies, but that was part of our plan, to get into segregated facilities, “White only” facilities. I actually have some plaques in my house now, just memorials that say, “We serve colored people” [Laughter], that I pulled down from antique stores.

	M:	Well, I mean speaking as someone who teaches students on this campus sometimes it hard for younger generations to even imagine that. What kinds of changes do you feel you’ve seen in terms of what it’s like to live today as opposed to what it was like to be in Gainesville at that time?

	R:	I don’t even have to go there. I mean my son is thirty-five years old and my daughter is forty-five, who is not as far distant from it as my son. Their like two different generations, but my son said something crazy when I was telling him how it was back in the day. And the sad thing is that when he was in the fourth and fifth grade I had to tell him because he was experiencing some things that I knew was the result of racism. And he, at that young age, didn’t understand. So, I





had to start showing him movies that I had archived about the way it was back in the day and different things that I thought we had gone past, but thank god I had archived them because how was I supposed to explain racism to him? It is such a subtle culture, that it is not teachable. And so only though movies and talking him through them could I explain what he was experiencing. And so he said something to me that stunned me, “There is no way me and my generation would tolerate that”, he’d rather die. I thought, “Kid, what you don’t understand is you are tolerating it right now. This is what you’re experiencing and you’re gonna die for it?” There are kids dying for this and they are dying today. Trayvon Martin is dead because he refused to be oppressed by whatever was being pushed on him. He’s dead. Kids are dying because they refuse to be under the same oppression we were under or they just don’t understand it.

	M:	Well, that’s—



	R:	Way off topic, but here you go. It just kind of went there didn’t it?



	M:	You know, I don’t know that is still. I mean, because if you’re talking about these—I don’t know getting involved in political actions, working—I mean, you’ve been involved with the Democratic Party, is that correct? I would guess that’s for future oriented working towards different goals and things.

	R:	Well I got involved with the Democratic Party. Now, I’ve been a Democrat for life.



I mean I was born a Democrat. Knowing one of your questions, I was born a Democrat. My family’s Democrat. All we’ve ever known is Democrat and perhaps if anybody in my family chose not to be a Democrat, would be disowned. That’s just the way it is. We believe in the democratic philosophy and we believe in the





democratic way. However, I was not actively involved in politics until I became a principle down south and once I became a principle, I actually started holding forums for candidates for my parents. I would have mock elections at my school. We would actually select candidates that we wanted to support as a group.

Could’ve been a little—however, we did and then we would start registering people—I had kids sit out on the sidewalk sometimes during the day registering people who passed by to vote. We had voters registration drives at the school, political forums at the school and because of my leadership, the school board passed a school board rule where all schools could start hosting such events. It helped them too. They had to run for office. So, lots of schools started hosting these events for their parents so their parents would get more involved in the political process. Let’s fast forward to Obama. By the time I came home I had lost that activism, I just wanted to be retired. I just wanted to be retired, watch the birds feed in the backyard, and the dragonfly’s fly over the grass. That’s what I wanted to do. But, Obama. I read ‘The Audacity of Hope’ and that was it. I was done. I paid my own money and started following him around campaigning for him around the co—South Carolina, really. I needed to be there. I knew if I was there I could help him bring in the vote because if he had not won South Carolina, it would be a done deal. So I went to Charleston, helped them recruit an army and that Friday when I left—when I got there was just about twelve of us—when I left on Friday I didn’t even stay for the election. When I left on Friday, they had an army of over six thousand people.

	M:	Hm.





	R:	Yeah, and I knew I could be that kind of catalyst. I don’t know why I have that gift.



I am a catalyst and I don’t really have to do the work, I just need to stir it up—I don’t know if you understand what I said—

	M:	I think that makes sense though.



	R:	Just get it stirred up, and once it’s stirred up, I don’t even have to participate. I just need to know that I stirred it up and it will work. And sure enough by the time I got home, I was sick. Because I had been out in the rain knocking on doors in a climate that I wasn’t comfortable in. So I was sick by Friday. That Saturday I was in bed when he won South Carolina and I knew he was gonna win it, I mean without a doubt. And same thing with the election, I know you said something about it—no I had no doubts that he was gonna win that. I’m not as certain this time. I had no doubt last time, I’m not as certain this time.

	M:	Well, so what do you fear the most about this upcoming election then?



	R:	Basically, the opponent, whoever they are, and I don’t mean Romney. Romney is just a figure head. The opponent is vast, broad. Their only mission is to shut him down. They have no plan, they have no goals, they don’t even know what to do to change America and they don’t really care. Their only motivation is to shut him down and that is what drives them no matter who it hurts, no matter who starves, no matter whose homeless, no matter who’s uninsured, jobless, they don’t care. They just want to shut him down. And that’s fearful, it’s by any means necessary to shut him down. Yeah. That’s where my failure to be confident is, I don’t have it this time.

	M:	So, why do you think Obama is such a target for that strategy?





	R:	You really want to know? M:	Yeah.

	R:	Racism.



	M:	Hmm.



	R:	It’s still alive and well. And so my friends, the younger generation who’s willing to die because of racism, it’s still alive and well.

	M:	Fair enough. So, what are you doing to help to ensure Obama’s reelection?



	R:	Frankly, I don’t have the time nor the energy that I had four years ago. And all I really think I can do and I try to do, is stir up the young people because if they don’t participate in their future, there will be no future. And they—when I go from meeting to meeting, organization to organization, to different community groups around the city, their all my age. That’s scary. Within ten years of sixty-five, where are the young people!? I mean, young people like you. We have an organization called the Young Democrats. Now, they are real busy and smart and active and they are even having trouble getting other college students to join them. What’s going on in America? You young people have got to take charge of your future. We’re old and tired. You guys have got to start taking a lead. You gotta, or there will be no future for you. We’ll be gone. You’ll be left here with what? People who are just haters?. [Laughter] What’re you gonna be left with running this country, haters? That’s crazy.

	M:	That’s a fair question. I mean we’re talking about these generational differences and so when you were still in high school you were doing sit-ins and stuff. I mean





it’s sort of—I don’t want to be flippant about it, but can you imagine your young self at a time, at this time now, in terms of Obama’s election or reelection?

	R:	You mean, had I been raised with the current-day generation? M:	Either-or.

	R:	No. I believe activism was stirred up in me at that age and I think once you’re stirred up it doesn’t go away. So, somebody’s gotta stir it up in the younger generation. And for me, it was the generation ahead of me. They were young people, but not as young as me, but smart enough to know they needed to pull the young people behind them. And I’m saying that now to groups that I go speak too, “Where are your young people?” You guys have got to reach back and pull some young people in here because you’re gonna be dead in the next twenty to thirty years and what will we have left? Where are the young people? I don’t even know—I was looking, when I was running for office, I was looking at the sheets of registered voters and the ages of these people. Very few twenty year olds and thirty year olds. Very few. Scary. Uh-huh.

	M:	Yeah, I can’t disagree. Just to back track a little, what was it like for you when Obama was elected? You actually got the news.

	R:	No, I was watching. I was watching minute by minute. By the time it was like my very breath, my next breath, hung on what’s the next piece of news? So, CNN was on 24/7 in my house, I fell asleep with it, I woke up with it, so I knew when he got the lead. I was never in doubt, but still you gotta watch it. You don’t really know. But, when he won everybody is texting everybody and emailing and Yahoo-ing and calling each other. It was a big celebration all over the world I





would venture to say. All over the world. It was a really true connection of everybody, everybody that loved freedom and justice in American way. We were all connected.

	M:	Do you remember specifically your family’s reactions or close friends reactions at that time?

	R:	As I recall, we were having a party at my house or we were having an election watch somewhere. Somewhere. I can’t remember, but there were election watch parties for Democratic people all over Gainesville and I was at one of them.

Unfortunately, I can’t remember which one. It could’ve been one at my own house because I had quite a few things at my house, but we had election watch parties so we were with a group somewhere.

	M:	So, what would be a particular policy that you find as sort of a point of concern or something Obama supports that you really like?

	R:	That’s easy, the American Jobs Act. I did support the Obama healthcare. I did support his stimulus plan, which has done some amazing things, but clearly not enough. The healthcare is hopefully going to change the way Americans live and feel, and are able to be more mobile. There are people sick that can’t even move, walking around—younger than me dying of heart attacks, walking on a cane— younger than me! I do believe it’s gonna change the quality of life for many, many, Americans young and old, the Obama healthcare. The American Jobs Act that he has on the table now that their fighting like cats and dogs over, wouldn’t you think everybody wants people to get a job? What’s going on? At any rate, jobs was one of my platforms so I realized that it’s just a small microcosm of





what’s going on in a larger picture. In my district, District One, there were thirteen thousand seven hundred and some odd people unemployed looking for work.

And to top that, there are jobs out there. There are literally jobs out there. That people either can’t match, can’t find, don’t know their available, don’t believe they have the skills to do or won’t get re-trained to do them. So, with the Obama job care act—well it’s not Obama, I said it, but that’s what their gonna call it anyway. It’s the American Job’s Act, it will be changed to Obama Job’s Act or something, but either way, it’s the American Job’s Act and he wants to keep teachers on the job, he wants to put construction workers back to work, he wants to put a lot of different people back to work. So do I. So, even though I am an Obama supporter, I can see the big picture in a smaller piece right here in my district and probably across the city of Gainesville. But especially in my district because in my district we’re the fifth largest income gap in the nation—Gainesville. And it’s because of the east side of Gainesville. In Gainesville, we made the list for the fifth widest income gap, the haves and the have-nots. Right here in Gainesville, on the list of the nation, the fifth widest gap. So, I sell that to say on 9/11, you remember 9/11—

	M:	Uh-huh.



	R:	September eleventh we’re having a colossal job fair in East Gainesville. We’ve invited over three hundred business. Anybody hearing my voice please contact the city of Gainesville so if you have any job openings surely you want to offer some of those to the people on the east side of Gainesville so we can get off this





list because Gainesville is number one on so many things, we certainly don’t want to be number five on this. Am I right?

	M:	Yeah.



	R:	So, if you got any job openings please consider hiring people from the east side because they need a job.

	M:	Fair enough. Do you have any further advice for younger people who do want to stir their peers up or the even younger peers up?

	R:	Well, I discovered that even though I had a script walking I’m just gonna talk about South Carolina. Let’s go there.

	M:	Sure, sure.



	R:	Cause’ you know, I was a foreigner in a foreign land, for all intents and purposes, walking their streets and I said so: “I came all the way from Florida to stir you up and get you out of your house.” [Laughter] I think if you just speak from your heart about what you feel, you don’t need a script. Write it down from your own heart what you feel about what’s happening in America and what you need to do about it and then say that to your friends. But if you write it down you’ll start practicing it, you’ll start saying it, and it’ll be so easy to flow off your mouth and your tongue that you’ll find yourself saying it to people whenever you get the opportunity. So, take the time to write down what you’re feeling in your heart and in your mind about what’s happening in America or just in Gainesville. And then figure out what you can do about it and then start saying it to your friends.

	M:	Excellent. Well I think we’re through with the questions— R:	Really? Did we actually do the questions?





	M:	Pretty much—



	R:	Oh, wow! We just kind of went a different way.



	M:	We kind of worked them in, not in order, but their— R:	Not in order, but they got accomplished, very good.

	M:	Oh! I didn’t ask actually, now that you mention it, the first Democratic presidential candidate you voted for, if you remember?

	R:	I believe that would have been Carter. I’m gonna say it might have been Jimmy Carter. I don’t remember how old I was when Jimmy Carter got elected, but it probably was Jimmy Carter.

	M:	What’s the earliest one you remember in terms of—would that be Clinton maybe?

	R:	Clinton is who I remember being sold out for—I don’t know if you understand the word sold out, but totally committed to William Jefferson Clinton, that’s where it began. I believe in the beginning we were a little weary about Jimmy Carter, we didn’t know if he could pull it in. He was the Democratic nominee, but I don’t think we were all convinced that he was the man for the job and he really made us all proud for the time that he was there.

	M:	What made Clinton so convincing in terms of—



	R:	Well, first of all he was very intelligent. It showed. He spoke very persuasively, he was handsome, very charismatic and he, like John F. Kennedy, made you feel confident that he could do whatever he said he could. He had a way with words and he still does today, frankly. [Laughter] He still does today. He really doesn’t— you don’t have to worry about what he’s gonna do, you just feel comfortable he





can do it. That’s what it was with him, he had that way about him and Kennedy had that same way. I think I remember Clinton saying when he was a young boy he met Kennedy and Kennedy left an impression on him. You see how important it is for young people to get stirred up? It is just that important because he probably watched Kennedy and became who he is by watching Kennedy.

	M:	Well put. Is there anything else you wanted to add?



	R:	I think we’ve gone from the pillow to the end of the bedroom. We’ve covered it all and I appreciate having the opportunity to do it.

	M:	Hey, well thank you very much for coming in. I think we’re good. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Lisa Mueller, October 16, 2017



	Audit-edited by:	Samantha Crisanti, November 11, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 28, 2019