AAHP 781; Robbins; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 781 Larry Robbins 2-29-2020

Interviewed by Olivia Lafuente, Grace Chun, and Kimberley Williams on February 29, 2020

55 minutes | 10 pages



Abstract: Larry Robbins recounts his life growing up in the Cantonment area of Pensacola, Florida. Robbins recalls the changes to the region over time, reflecting on both the positive and negative aspects of these developments. He describes his education at St. Joseph Catholic School, then later at Ransom School, and reflects on the impacts of segregation on his education experience. He also discusses his careers in the military and at the International Paper mill, where he worked in a variety of roles. Robbins explains that he chose these careers because he did not want to go into the puckwooding industry, which was a popular occupation in the area at the time because his father died in a puckwooding accident. Robbins closes with a reflection on his hopes for the future of the Cantonment area and his current role in the Cantonment Improvement Committee (CIC).





Keywords: [education, segregation, Pensacola, Escambia County, Cantonment, Ransom, labor history, military, veteran]



AAHP 781

Interviewee: Larry Robbins

Interviewers: Olivia De La Fuente, Grace Chun, and Kimberley Williams Date: February 29, 2020

	L:	Today is February 29th, 2020, we’re here in Cantonment, Florida. My name is Olivia de Lafuente, I’m here with—

	C:	Grace Chun—



	L:	And—



	W:	Kimberly Williams.



L:  And we’re interviewing— R:  Larry Robbins.

L:   Awesome. So just to begin could you tell us where you were born and when? R:   I was born here in Cantonment, Florida, 32533 in the year 1955, March 1955. L:   So you were born at home?

	R:	Yes.



	L:	So a midwife?



	R:	Yes, a midwife.



	L:	Do you remember her name?



	R:	I can’t remember her last name, I remember her first name, her name was Ms. Behmer. I can’t remember her last name right now, but she delivered a lot of babies here in this area here. Many of them before me. Including myself, it was eight boys and three girls. And she delivered just about all of us at my mama’s house. Mmhm, at Mama and Daddy’s house. Yep. And we pretty much came up on the rough side. This area didn’t have too good of benefits, it was a lot of woods in this area. The only businesses that was in the neighborhood was up on 29, which is Palafox now, Pensacola Boulevard is—It came down Muskogee and there was a place Charley Booth’s, where he sold clothes. There was a





hardware—Cooke’s Hardware. There was a place—Chase Heart—which sold clothes and shoes and everything. There was a Tastee-Freez up here, there was a theater up in this area. There was a drug store, a drug store, McLane—I believe it was—drug store. There was another place that got named Jim Nixon, he did a lot of business in this area. And the main businesses that was going besides them was puttwooding. And there was a plywood plant down Muskogee, down Muskogee up there where they took puttwood and they made boards and everything and there was the Ransom School. Here there was Ransom Elementary and High School—it wasn’t called a middle school at that time. But the land was donated by Mr. Earl Ransom and his wife, which is later they called it Ransom Middle School. All my brothers and sisters, we attended there. Over here was a Catholic school which was St. Joseph Catholic School, it’s a private school. Just about all of my brothers and sisters, they went there.

Except for my oldest brother and my—let me see—except for my third oldest brother and my baby sister, they didn’t attend but all the rest of us did. I attended the Catholic school over here until I passed the third grade, then I went to Ransom school. But the Catholic school was a good school. We had a priest, where you had the Catholic church over there, they had the priest who was named Father Martin. There was some of the sisters, I remember some of them by name: Sister Margaret, Sister Helen, Sister Marie—and you had to go to school. And you had to come to mass. If you didn’t go to school, they would come get you. And they provided a lot of things for this neighborhood. During every holiday; Thanksgiving, Christmas they always brought much canned





goods, toys for the kids—they was good to us, they were real good to us. And you couldn’t gripe about anything. I loved what they did, demanding that you should go to school and if you didn’t go to school, they would come around to your house. And if you didn’t have a legal excuse or were sick or whatever they would get you and bring you to school. And my parents was already strict enough. So, it didn’t hurt my mama and dad’s feelings at all. But sooner or later, the Catholic school went to the sixth grade out here, and after the sixth grade then you had to go out to St. Joseph, down off of Pace Boulevard up somewhere down—you had to go to school down there. And some kind of way you had to find a ride to go down there, but afterward the—I believe it was about a four-room building—and it housed all of us. After I passed to the third grade, we went to Ransom. And it was a change of scenery and everything. I mean the school—we had fun, we had fun going to school. We didn’t do like a lot of kids today, go around shooting up each other, sit here bored, or all these kinds of things, carrying guns—we didn’t carry no knives, we didn’t carry no guns. People took care of each other’s children. Parents didn’t mind neighborhood parents chastising their children. And we knew not to get into anything, because if we did they would whip up. And when they whipped us, they told us to go on. When we got home, we know not to go home crying because mom and dad gon’ ask, “What’s the matter with you?” “Mrs. So-and-so whooped me.” “Well come here!” And they’d whoop you again. Because they figured parents or people in the neighborhood wasn’t whipping you for nothing. Nowadays, the system do not want kids to be whipped. I understand there’s some abuse, and a lot of parents





or a lot of child abusing people, but you never heard of that during those days. Kids feared getting into anything, they feared about disrespecting their elders. And it’s not like that nowadays. Children will cuss you out, they’ll curse you out, say things, do things, and parents—a lot of them—will take up for ‘em. And that really what got things out of order. They had another place called the reformatory school. If you got out of hand then they would send you there until you got under control, then they let you come back home.

	L:	Was any of the schools that you just mentioned—the Catholic school, the middle school, the reformatory, were all of them segregated?

	R:	The Catholic school was not. Ransom school was. It was a—that’s the way it was in those days. It was segregated and everything until 1969, and then the schools started integrating. But there was some schools—like Jim Allen—Jim Allen was not segregated. There was segregation going on, but there was only a few people that was allowed to go there if their parents had good benefits, if they had food jobs. Some of them went down here to—It used to be Florida Public, then they changed the name to St. Regis and after St. Regis it went to Champion and then what is is now—International Paper. But if the people had good jobs, they allowed their kids to come. And there was so many in the neighborhood that was accepted at that school. And then Tate School start accepting Black students to go down there, but you had to have your own transportation, yeah. But out here at Ransom School the first Caucasian principal was Mr. Desmuck, he was the principal out there. And then afterward, they start having the school start mingling, after he got there. And when I’m saying mingling, I’m talking about





segregation—they banned it. But some of them went to private schools and they didn’t want their kids to mingle with Blacks like that. There was a lot of stuff we had to put up with but our parents told us about things. Our parents told us to love one another. My mama and my daddy said that it doesn’t matter whether a kid is White or Black, he bleeds—or she bleeds—just like you do. And this was one of the things that was rooted down into us, that we had to love everybody.

My mama used to work for—My daddy used to work for a White guy that owned the pulpwood. Mr. James Thompson, one named Mr. Evans, my daddy worked with them ‘til Mr. Evans died, then he started working for Mr. James Thompson. But then my mother used to work housework, and she was working for this man, White, by the name of Mr. Muscian Sharless. And it was good to my mama, she did what she had to do and she worked and I tell you what, he was very interested in me. My mom told him how I loved to read, he told my mama she shouldn’t let me read just anything or any kind of reading. So what he did, he started sending magazines home to me and then he started sending newspapers home to me. And it was just for me. And later on, when I did go to Tate School—I went to Ransom, I started going to school with some of his children. And some of his grandkids started going to Tate and everything, and all of us graduated together. But Ransom, Ransom went from the first to the twelfth grade, and in 1969 then they integrated. And I was the first year that they integrated, in 1969, I was one of the first ones at Ransom school among integration. And you know what? We all got along good. We was in the band together, it was all good. It wasn’t—the guy I met, Baker Brown, he was at Ransom. During that time, if it





wasn’t at Catholic school this was the only school we went to—you was able to go to. But Ransom turned out a lot of good peoples. You ever heard of General Chappie James? He was one of the only five-star generals, he came out of this neighborhood. He had about five or six sisters and brothers, and they could draw real good. Ransom had a lot of good things; this neighborhood had a lot of good things. Peoples planted gardens, fields, we grew our own food and everything.

And there was Joel Henson had a store up here. And I tell you what, he was just a good guy. He would—groceries and everything wasn’t that high like it is now. It’s so high nowadays what you could get for a dime, it costs about ten dollars now. Yeah. And he had a guy that worked for him, used to carry us, if we went to the store—If my mama went to the store shopping for groceries, he had a guy that had a station wagon he used to bring the groceries home. And we all got along real good, we got along real good. Things are good today but there are some people in the world today that’s out of hand. My children, they went to Ransom Middle School. Some of them went to the elementary school down off 29—I can’t remember the name but y’all might have went to it… Wow, can’t remember.

	L:	That’s okay.



	R:	That’s part of my yearedness. [Laughter] All of my kids, they started out going to—and then they turn around and come back, eventually they came back and they went to Ransom Middle School because they took it out from over here and turned this over to Sidney Nelson, then they turned around and made Ransom Middle School down here off of Kingsfield. Right there west of Kingsfield and





297A. And eventually they went to Tate and they graduated. And then one of my daughters went to college. My son went in the military. He retired. My son is the oldest and then my oldest daughter, she went to Georgia is where she is now up there, she teaches school. But my baby daughter, she’s a registered nurse at West Florida Hospital. My wife, she works at West Florida hospital. And not only that, she works in dietary. But then I went in the military, I stayed six years in the military, and I went to work out here at the mill out here. And I’m totally disabled by Social Security, but I will start my retirement next month. I’ll be sixty-five so I’ll be starting my retirement, but at this time I’m on long-time disability and everything. But I just say this neighborhood has always been a good neighborhood, when I was a kid coming up. But it started getting out of hand as times changed. There was some people who allowed their kids to do anything, say anything, didn’t want to parent, to say anything to them, they started standing up for their kids. Next thing you know, kids start going to jail. They start selling drugs, stealing, next thing you know they in jail, they gone to prison. I don’t know anybody from this neighborhood that was on death row but overall I still think it’s a good neighborhood, a good place to live at. I’m part of the CIC, yep.

	L:	What is CIC?



	R:	It’s the Cantonment Improvement Committee. That’s where Josh is over to. And Mike Oreille, we’re all a part of it. And it started, I guess, about eight years ago, somewhere around there. And there’s a lot of stuff that older people back in the day tried to get going in this neighborhood, they tried to get recreation centers, they tried to get roads paved, drains, they tried to get walkways, but they never





got it. They did the best they could with what they had and what they could do, but they did not get the paperwork. There was money that was allocated to this community but if you didn’t have a 5013C, somebody over next door over there could [inaudible] your pool or your money, and there’s nothing you can do about it. If they didn’t do it away right then, you just lost out. But we are grateful to what’s happening now. I’m a pastor now, pastor at God’s Way Baptist Church. There’s Pastor Dennis Brown, he’s in there, he’s pastoring at Ward’s Temple.

And there are many of us that came out this neighborhood that the Lord put back in this neighborhood to help bring it up and, you know, be concerned about each other. And it just—what’s happening now is we’re concerned about the whole Pensacola area, not just Cantonment. But a lot of times we were being looked over or skipped over, but we thank God now that they’re not going around us so much, now they’re coming through us, and we’re happy about that. And I want to say today that we’re glad to have y’all to come out. And to do what y’all are doing. Cantonment history that I heard about over the years ago, they had a fort. I don’t know if y’all have heard about it called Fort Cantonment, and right there where the mill is sitting on right there, it was sitting on the river. I think they called it the Seminole River, I believe it was during those days and everything but there’s a lot that has transpired from then to now. But I work at the mill out there, it will soon be forty years.

	L:	Can you tell us about your experiences at the mill?



	R:	Yeah, I started out working in finishing shipping. And the mill is a paper company, and they make paper, they make turpentine, [inaudible], but it mainly was a





paper company and the wood that was hauled out of here, they would haul it to the mill out there and they would send it to the woodyard, chip it up, and then they send it over to the puck mill. The puck mill will take it and they will put white liquor and black liquor in it and they call the chips “impregnated chips,” because the white liquor and black liquor will soak into the chip, they would chip them maybe about like that. And then they will turn around and they will send it over to us, and that’s where I was working at the puck mill down there after I left finishing shipping. And I went to puck mill up there, the digesting room, and we used to cook the chips, and we used to cook it and we would cook it and it would turn to stock. After it turned to stock, we would send it over to the recovery—not the recovery, the recovery is to make the liquid, send it to the bleach plant. And the bleach plant would bleach the stock, and they would put it in—you see all these tall towers out there. They would cook it, we would cook it, and then we would send it to them and bleach it, and then they send it and put it in the tower, and then a machine would pull the stock off the tower that bleached and they’ll make paper out of it. Set it up on the winder, and they had a long—they had felts, they had rows about as tall as this building and about as wide as this here. Each one of them gets about twenty feet, thirty feet long. And what they call a dry-end, and what they do is they bring that stock over that felt, and they’ll run it out on the dry- end and then they had machines would cut it up in paper. And that’s why you’ll see it cut up in, you see a lot of paper for the copy machines and everything, they make a lot of that. And that’s where I worked at. And then they’ll send it to finishing and shipping, and what finishing and shipping would do—I used to work





over there—what we would do, we would after they cut it up we would take it and we would package it up and then we would stick it out on the train and everything, they’ll ship it to the customers and everything. But I’ve been gone nineteen years now but I’m still, my retirement is coming up because I’m disabled. I got a bad back, bad neck, and bad ankles and everything. I don’t have no gripes about nothing that this neighborhood accomplished, I don’t have no gripes at all. Integration is good. You hear some people say, “I wish they had never did it,” and “We’d have been better off,” but I don’t know. If it had, racism would have been more out of order now. I mean more out of order being what a lot of it is now. There was people back then, it didn’t matter Black or White, some of them had these thoughts and everything but I can say the majority of people got along well. Got along real well. But I can say this, there’s a lot of people who come out this neighborhood that’s doing well and a lot of them have died and gone on but—that guy now, he’s older than me he’s about ten years older than I am, but we just, Cantonment is Cantonment. It been what it been, it is what it is. I like living here, I wouldn’t want to live nowhere else. I love the people that are here. All over the Pensacola area, I don’t got no animosity against anybody. I love everybody, I love everybody. I got no hatred in my heart against nobody. I’m glad that my mama taught—I say my mama but you know how it is, daddy’s working and everything all the time and mama’s put the feet down and we didn’t want to hear them say, “Alright Bahmer tell your daddy.” Daddy was sure enough to get home, too. And we would rather for her to whoop us than for our daddy to whoop us. He didn’t whoop us much, but when he whooped us we





knew. But mama put the hurt on you too. And I’m grateful to how I came up and everything, I don’t have no animosity or nothing, no hatred, I don’t have no dislike. I take things one day at a time, that’s what I do. So I raised three kids up. Me and my wife been married now for going on forty-five years this coming April, it’ll be forty-five years. If I had to do it over again, I’d marry her over again, the same woman, over again. Any one of y’all married? Y’all in school?

	L:	Mmhm.



	R:	Oh, okay. Well I pray the best for y’all, wherever the Lord may lead you. I pray that everything will work out well for you.

	L:	Thank you.



	C:	Thank you.



	W:	When did you decide to enlist in the military? What made you?



	R:	I went in the military in 1977. One time I started to go in 1973, but at that time they had stopped drafting. And the year that they stopped drafting, they were getting close to me graduating and that was something that we always were concerned about. Vietnam War was going on, I was wondering what would take place by the time I turned eighteen. Wondering: What will I be doing? Will I be in the military, get drafted in? So I didn’t get drafted. I went to go and sign up to go in the Army and—but at that time it was volunteer. I started to go but then I changed my mind and didn’t go. If I had of went then, I still would have gone to Vietnam. But in 1977, I got married in 1976, and in 1977, I signed up for the US Army. Then stayed in for six years, then I got out. And when I got out that’s when I went to work out here. The reason I went in was because I didn’t want to do





what my daddy did, not working in pulpwood. I didn’t want to do that. My dad got killed in pulpwood—tree hit him. 1967. In March of 1967 and then I have to say too, here about six years ago one of my brothers got killed. He got hit with a tree during—he was cutting trees out of peoples yard and a tree came back and hit him and it killed him. But when my daddy got killed, I said, “I don’t want to make this my living.” I did some, but I don’t want to do this as a living. So I went into the military. And after I got out of the military, that’s when I came and everything. And life started doing better for me, in the military. And after I got out they had this thing, the government had this thing going by Hire The Vet and at the time I got ready to go into the military that’s when the mill got ready to call me to work the same day. But I went on and did my time and I did six years and I got out and when I got out I went out there and I talked to the personnel manager, I told them about the mill had called me to go to work but then they were hiring the vets anyway. And I talked with him and I put him on the spot. I asked him, he said, “Well, we got some jobs coming up pretty soon.” And I said, “Well do you want me to contact you or you contact me?” And he said, “I’ll contact you.” But I put him on the spot because I already knew it, if you don’t call me I’m gonna be calling you. I’m gonna be out here at this door. He called me the same week, and I went to work that Thursday, 3/11, I went to work. And I stayed out there until I left there, stayed out there until I left. And when I left there to doctor took me off work and everything. Right, I met a lot of guys that I went to school with, graduated with, that were working out there. A lot of my relatives were working out there. These guys, we enjoyed working together. We enjoyed doing our job,





we had fun doing our job. There was times we had headaches from the jobs, you know, working shift work. You work seven days, seven to eight graveyard, work out Thursday morning, you’ve got to go back in the day Saturday morning. That’s why we couldn’t get adjusted to. Then after then we worked off the days, we worked Friday evening then we’d go back to work until Tuesday, until Tuesday because we’d work out Friday, Saturday, Sunday, and Monday, then we’d work 3-11 Tuesday. That Monday night, and then we was off two or three days and

then went back graveyard Thursday night. But the job was fine, I enjoyed working it. I enjoyed working it. I worked until I couldn’t work it no more. Still one night I messed around and I blanked out and they didn’t know what had happened to me and the ambulance came and got me around one o’clock in the morning. And they took me to the hospital and they couldn’t find nothing wrong with me, but they found out that this thing called centercode, and centercode was where you were losing the edge of your brains. And they found out that’s what was happening to me. And it all stemmed from my injuries and everything so when they took me to the emergency room and they couldn’t find what was wrong with me the doctors and all told me, said, “I want you to ear this heart monitor” I wore this heart monitor. “They said wear it the rest of the day”—because it was Saturday morning before—"they said wear it all day Saturday and wear it all day Sunday and I want you to walk into your doctor’s appointment” he said “I don’t want you to call I want you to walk in.” I walked in and I had my loan left him during that week. He was looking at me like “Whatchu doing back here?” You know? But when I blacked out, I couldn’t walk, I had no pulse, the ambulance





came and got me and I couldn’t walk. I was in bad chape. And I told him what they told me, I told him what had happened to me. He told me, he said, “You ain’t going back to work.” That’s what he told me. And he asked me how many quarters I had in at the mill working, I told him I didn’t know. But he asked me how long I had been working there—it was over twenty years. And I explained to him what happened and that I didn’t know about my wife, because I fell on the floor, I just blacked out and fell on the floor. But that’s when he told me I wasn’t ever going back to work no more. And I never went back since then. Yeah.

	L:	Yeah, I’m so sorry to hear that. R:	Hm?

	L:	I’m so sorry to hear that.



	R:	I appreciate your sympathy. I have issues. I have pain but by the Grace of God I’m doing the best I can. I look around, you know, some people are worse off than me. But I thank God it’s as well as it is.

	L:	I’m wondering what role religion has played throughout your life.



	R:	Religion has played a major part throughout my life. You know, as well all, we always say, but religion has played a major part in my life. That’s one thing we had respect for is the Lord. You know, even though we didn’t know the Lord we heard about the Lord. And our mom and daddy told us, our cousins, our older cousins and everything. So we heard a lot about the grace of God, you know, and how we should always fear him, respect him. And we did that. But I understood later on that there was more, there was more to just hearing about him., I had to know him. And when I got to know him, and then life was more





purer to me. I understood a lot more about the things that I was told about when I was a kid coming up, that when people told me I didn’t understand it but I was told and I remembered it. But after I got to know him, and that which they told me plus that which I studied about, I began to get a better understanding of it. And now I can tell other people about him. And I can tell other people that there’s more to life then just getting up every morning, eating breakfast and laying down at night. Going to bed. There’s more to life than that. And I’m grateful to know that, you know? I’m grateful to know about that.

	L:	Did you go to church a lot growing up?



	R:	Yeah, we had to go. Yes, we had to go. Remember I told you we had to go to Catholic church, they called it mass? Well that was the Catholic church and we also went, I guess you heard about Graterford Baptist Church, we also had to go there. That’s where my mom and dad were members at and some of my brothers and sisters and all over there. But all of us had to go over there and once we got out of there we went home, we went to Sunday school, to eleven o’clock services and everything and all that but we had to tell them—make sure they know that we went. We had to tell them what the pastor said, what he preached about, we had to tell them about Sunday school and everything. That would keep us on track in church and everything. But I thank God for it, I don’t have no regrets in my teaching, neither nor my teachers. I have no regrets. Didn’t one of y’all go to Tate High School?

	L:	We’re not from here.



	R:	Okay, where are y’all from?





	L:	I’m from Miami.



	R:	Miami? Okay, okay. C:	Orlando.

	R:	Orlando.



	W:	Virginia.



	R:	Virginia, okay, alright. Y’all like it here?



	L:	Yeah, it’s a nice place. The people are good.



	R:	Yeah, people are good here. We got a few knuckleheads, like everywhere else, but overall people are good. People are good.

	L:	I was also wondering what kind of things you do at the CIC things?



	R:	I’m just one of the membership there. We are responsible for getting roads paved, to see some of the sidewalks are being done, putting drains in, lights, things that used to—like being able to pass out groceries every so often during the year and everything, and things that helping the elderly people and everything. Which I’m one of them now. [Laughter] But the CIC is doing a good job, it’s doing a good job. It was also responsible here with the county commissioner, we work with him and everything and upgrading the park out here, you know. So, a lot of everything going on. We got the lights on the poles and everything. Like the bathroom over here, the park got a bathroom, we got water, running water and everything, Here, part of last year, drains put up under the park, the county dug up the park, dug it up, put big drains, it was pretty deep, put drains down in the ground, covered it back up, paved the roads. And the loan got through with this over here and improvements here and everything. Now they’re





going, when they leave, here they going to 97A—97 or 297?—and then they’re going back where this road connects going back over—this is Washington street here—where they’re gon’ connect, going across 297 and go down to Washington Street and come back around to Booker Street and everything so that’s where they’re going to start doing that. So the CIC is doing a lot of that. And there are many other things I just can’t call them off the top of my head right now, but a lot of other things that the CIC is involved in. Yeah.

	L:	Sounds good.



E:  I’m Jimmy Erin. It seems like, when we talk about the CIC we talk about religion and we talk about your wife, you light up with all of these three subjects. And I’m curious to talk about, how did you meet your wife?

R:   Meet my wife?



	E:	Mmhmm.



	R:	I met my wife here, in Cantonment. My wife, all our family came up in Alabama, up in Beatrice up around that neighborhood Peterman, and everything, and my wife is the baby of her family. And they moved out here from Pensacola. And we went to school together and we sung in the choir together, we went to church together and everything. And I met her and after meeting her, I already knew some of her people so I got to know her better, you know. Me and her brother was good friends, and then my brother was already liking one of her sisters and he had a son by her older sister, one of her sisters. And I guess that just gave me a better opportunity to get to know her. Her daddy was a preacher at Graterford but he wasn’t a pastor, he was one of the preachers. And like I said, we went to





church together, we went to school together. And we fell in love. And after I went off to college for a little while, she graduated and everything and then later on I come back home and somewhere down the line between the time I graduated and she graduated, we got married. We got married. I was married when I got into the military. We’ve been married, like I said, going on forty years now. It’ll be forty five years April the seventeenth, it’ll be forty-five years. Sometimes I have to remind her how long it’s been. [Laughter] Yeah. Yeah. She had a good dad, her dad and her mom was good, they were real good people. And they loved me as if I was one of their sons. Yeah. I miss them, too. They’re dead and gone but I really miss them. Mmhmm, yes they were good people. Anything they could do for you, they would do. Any more questions?

	C:	I guess what would you—what is your hope for cantonment?



	R:	My hope for Cantonment is that Cantonment will still improve. As you see, a lot of business is coming this way now. I just home Cantonment will continue to improve and I can say it like that. And I mean that in every way. In every way. I would like to see Cantonment produce, like a lot of other cities and everything, you know, jobs and everything. Schools around here, we have schools in the neighborhood. I would love to see Cantonment have a recreation center and attached to the recreation center I would love to see cantonment have a gymnasium so our kids can have an involvement. I would like to see professional athletes come out of the neighborhood. We had some that was capable. We had on that, he made the CBA, he went to Florida State, he went to Tate High School, and he went with my son. I would love to see a gymnasium built. And the





best place I think to see it built at would be over there at old Ransom. Over there where Sidney Nelson, where it used to be Ransom Elementary High School. And I would love to see that land be donated back onto the cantonment area and build a gymnasium, libraries—a library. I really would love to see that. I think that’s a lot of our dreams, especially all of us that went to Ransom. I would love to see that. We pushed for it, the CIC pushed for it real hard. But our school superintendent who also attended ransom, he would not let it happen. And it hurt a lot of us. And what they did now, if you took this road and you went off to the left here, go off to the right, go straight ahead, all you see is school buses. We tried to get them to leave the building out there so we could have the CIC in different areas so the kids could have somewhere to go and we could turn it over into activities, all kinds of activities. He wouldn’t do it. He tore the whole school all the way down. And he put a whole bunch of raggedy busses out there. And the school buses that drive kids around this area, they park over there. But he went to Ransom. When it was Ransom Middle School. And he went to the Ransom down here. But he became superintendent as if he had never been here. Yep.

But yeah, those are things I would love to see take place. So all of us can have a better remembrance of the fruitfulness that started out with Mr. Earl Ransom and his wife, who donated the land. They donated the land for these kinds of things to go on and for him to go in and just destroy it was heartbreaking. It didn’t matter to me if he knew it—because everybody in this area, and people from around this area, surrounding area that went to school there, they were hurt too. They were





hurt too. Still is hurt. But the only thing he brought back out this way was school busses and raggedy automobiles that broke down, that’s not running.

	L:	Well, is there anything else you’d like to add?



	R:	No. I thank y’all for coming, thank y’all for your time. L:	No, we thank you for allowing us to interview you.

	E:	Thank you so much! R:	Alright.





[End of interview]





Transcribed by: Abby Lovett



Audit-Edited by: Sandra Romero, April 13, 2021 Final-Edited by: Sandra Romero, April 14, 2021