AAHP 024; Richardson; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 024 David Richardson African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on May 27, 2010 49 minutes | 24 pages



Abstract: Pastor David Richardson discusses his time as director of the University of Florida Gospel Choir, and some of the history of UF as he experienced it. He also describes growing up in Hastings, Florida, and the meaning of music and of religion in his life.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; St. Johns County, Florida; University of Florida]























































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 024

Interviewee: David Richardson Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: May 27, 2010



	W:	Alrighty, it is May 27, 2010. This is Marna Weston for the Sam Proctor Oral History Program, in Pugh Hall, in the Graham Library and we are having an interview today with Pastor David Richardson, director of The University of Florida Gospel Choir for a number of years. Thank you very much Pastor Richardson, David for being with us today.

	R:	Yes sir, good to be here. Honor, pleasure.



	W:	Well, thank you. You’ve had such an illustrious career as the director of the University of Florida Gospel Choir. Almost my entire University of Florida history, knowledge, you’ve been the director of the Gospel Choir. Now you’re transitioning into a different phase of your life. The purpose of this interview is to talk to you about your connection to the University of Florida and the Gospel Choir, and again thank you so much for being here

	R:	Again, it’s a pleasure.



	W:	David, when and where were you born?



	R:	I was born, actually it’s amazing. I was born in Palatka, Florida but by accident because my father and mother were in Smarmed, Delaware and we happened to be in Florida for Thanksgiving weekend. I just happened to want to come out in Palatka.

	W:	So you’re a Thanksgiving baby? R:	I’m a Thanksgiving baby.

	W:	What is the actual day and date?





	R:	November 27, 1962 and it falls right around, either it’s on Thanksgiving Day or around Thanksgiving weekend, but it’s a holiday.

	W:	Joyous times of course. R:	Yes sir, yes sir.

	W:	Who are your mother and father?



	R:	My mother is Ruby Andrews, now, she married of course. My father—which you’ll find out later why, he’s deceased but we’ll go into that later—David Edward Richardson Sr.

	W:	Where were they originally from?



	R:	My father was originally from Miami, migrated to Hastings. My mother is from Hawthorne, Hastings, Palatka area.

	W:	Okay, and then so people from the neighborhood of Alachua or Putnam County would know, there are a lot of cousins in that area, Johnson, Hastings, Hawthorne, it’s all like one big town.

	R:	Yes sir. That’s why you got to have family reunions, so you don’t marry your cousin.

	W:	Very important, want you to see each other. R:	Yes sir.

	W:	Well of course and maybe people aren’t well aware of this also in many families but in African American cultural tradition after slavery, a lot of times families couldn’t find each other. Whoever was around would become a family. People that might not have been your blood kin became kin. People don’t really talk about what’s your first cousin, second cousin, it’s your cousin. That’s all you need





to know. Your mom’s parents, could we talk about them for a second, what were their names?

	R:	Sure, my mom’s parents were from Hawthorne area. She was actually conceived in Hawthorne. But my grandmother who is Corrine Esol at her death, but she was actually a Robinson, married into the Robinson family in Hawthorne. I have his name on the sheet of my tablet, his name was Walter Lee Robinson from the Hawthorne area. I’m saying that because there was a separation. Since this is raw and real, I can say that they were dealing with, from what my mother told me, verbal abuse not from him but by his mother. That called my grandmother to get her bags and leave him on the side of the road. She left and hitchhiked to Hastings because she got tired of the verbal abuse from his mother. There were things that his mother would say that she was doing which she wasn’t. She didn’t feel it was right that he took the side of his mother. So she said, “Okay, me and my pregnant self, I’m going to get out of here and I’m going to relocate.”

	W:	He let her go?



	R:	Actually, he did. From what I understand from my mother he was a very mild mannered man. Had a soft touch.

	W:	His mother was the center of his world.



	R:	There you go. My grandmother distinctly said, it’s me or your mother. W:	So he wasn’t ready.

	R:	He wasn’t ready. He did tell her though, “If you want to come back, call me and I’ll come and get you.” My grandmother said she never entertained the call.

	W:	She stood on her own?





	R:	She stood on her own until she was remarried. W:	How about your dad’s parents?

	W:	Oh, my dad’s parents, that’s exciting because my dad’s parent, her name is N.L. Esol. Her parents were Joseph Esol and Rosa Esol and basically Marna they actually owned a lot of Hastings. They were very good entrepreneurs. They were Seminole descent and they actually owned a lot. They were one of the families that people looked up to from St. Augustine to Armstrong, East Palatka area because they had a lot of farming areas, farmland. I don’t know if you’ve ever been to Hastings, but its potato, cabbage city. They call it “potato capital,” matter of fact, “of the world.” They had a lot. My grandma came from, on my father’s side came from a well, well, high to do family, the Esols.

	W:	When you’re in Gainesville, if you’re trying to go to Crescent Beach you got to go past Hastings.

	R:	You got to go past Hastings. Can’t go around, got to go past it. My father came from her, David Edward Richardson Senior came from that joining. Actually my grandmother, N.L, she married Ben Coats, but my father, it wasn’t my father’s father, my actual grandfather, his name is Eddie Richardson. He’s from Fort Lauderdale area and my aunt told me that I should always try to look up Eddie Richardson. I never tried but that’s one of my quests, to find out actually who’s Eddie Richardson. I think it was during the time she got pregnant he was a serviceman. It was something going on there where she could either wait or she just decided to go another route and that’s where my father David Richardson came out that year. Somehow, her and my father, who migrated to Hastings also,





by one of my aunts took him in and began to raise him and met my mother and eventually they hooked up got married.

	W:	A rich history in Florida. Not only personally, I’m thinking about that entire area, you mentioned cabbage, and Volusia, that entire area is a huge cabbage area.

	R:	Huge cabbage area, and not to mention in Palatka, the crab festivals.



	W:	Pulpwood, so many agricultural riches. Terrific, well thank you for sharing a little bit about your family background. I’d like to talk to you about some of your earliest memories of childhood. What is the most poignant memory you have from growing up as a child? It can be a happy moment, an unhappy moment, something that really stands out for you and helped define your life from childhood.

	R:	I’m glad you asked that question, I’m thinking about so many areas that I could have went. My grandmother, she was big on, although she was a church woman; she was big on Lance Welt, Tony Bennett, Frank Sinatra. I grew up on Jerry Lewis, Dean Martin, Tom and Jerry, you know. I had a fullness of my world. She really engulfed me into western songs which helped cultivate, we’ll get into that later, my musical ability. Gospel, classical music, a cappella music. She had a genre that helped create me where I could have actually went into any area. I say that because when I was in the third grade, I entered a contest, Palatka Middle School had a contest, I was an elementary school kid then but I won first place doing impressions. The feel of stage and the feel of making people happy, I think that third grade experience, to see people applaud and laugh, that’s pretty good. It’s almost like a medicine. Eventually, I didn’t pursue it, but it comes out a little





bit when I preach, the comedy side, which I think is a big plus, keeps people from going to sleep. [Laughter] Other areas that cultivated me, that was the most poignant moment, pinnacle moment of my life. I really wanted to do something that made people happy, medicine for the heart for people.

	W:	You keep them under the pews with your humorous views? R:	I got to write that down. I like that. [Laughter]

	W:	You mentioned your education in Palatka, what was the first school that you went to?

	R:	The first school I went to, well actually, I must put this in, my grandmother who married again to Clinton, all these questions you are asking are falling in place. She married Clinton Esol which caused us to be migrant workers. Although we had relatives in D.C, Philadelphia, Jersey, you know East Coast, New York, migrant workers means we worked for the summer.

	W:	Seasonal work.



	R:	Seasonal workers, right. We were at one of the most prestigious seasonal places where we could ever be. Me and my cousin even talk about it up until this day, we went weekly, to Corporation, it was located in Clayton, Delaware. They provided services for Campbell’s soup. They took care of their migrant workers. We lived better than any other seasonal workers. We had trailers at that time and other facilities. I had a taste of being schooled in Delaware, Dover, Smyrna, in Florida. I had a taste of basically two worlds. My education, Clayton Elementary School, Mellon Elementary School in Palatka, James A. Long Elementary School, which was named after a Black doctor, prominent Black doctor in





Palatka. High school it was Smyrna High School and Dover High School up in Delaware. In Florida it was Palatka Central, and then migrated into Palatka High School

	W:	Is that where you graduated from?



	R:	Yeah, Palatka High School. That’s where I actually graduated from because like I said, I was there seasonal, but I always came back, mid-term to finish out in Palatka.

	W:	What year was that that you finished? R:	1982.

	W:	So now, who was your favorite teacher?



	R:	Believe it or not. Mr. Carson, he taught America Versus Communism. I loved that class because I needed that class. He was humorous, but he was so, made you want to—he put things on the line, whereas he would tell us, “If you want to graduate, this is the class, you have to come through me.” And he would do his teeth like this: “Chop, chop, chop.” He was to me, because I had begun to kind of hang around the wrong crowds. When I got to the senior year, I was like, “Okay, boys you got to wait, this guy is serious.” He’s the most prominent teacher that really stuck out in my mind, Mr. Carson, America vs. Communism, I enjoyed it.

	W:	For a historical note, people who are sitting listening to this later on, they would have to know in the State of Florida, what was eventually the comparative political systems class was previously Americanism vs. Communism, developed before the Berlin Wall, everybody had to take it.

	R:	Everybody, it was mandatory.





	W:	You have your high school career in Palatka and you graduate. I’d like to talk a little bit about you family, you’re married, could you tell a little bit about your wife?

	R:	My wife, she’s a beautiful, beautiful lady. She’s been with me, matter of fact, believe it or not I got married in July, August, I got called to the ministry, September, I got asked, same year 1986, I got asked to lead the gospel choir. I married my wife on July 12, 1986. I was called to the ministry the next month, and the following month I was asked by Dr. Williams to be with the gospel choir. My wife has been married to me and the UGC, University Gospel Choir, and the University for twenty-two years.

	W:	What is her name?



	R:	Her name is Michele Orange Richardson. W:	Where is Michele from originally?

	R:	Michele is originally from Jacksonville, Lake City area. Her grandmother, then her mother are in the beauty business

	W:	What are their names?



	R:	Brenda Davis and Ms. Magnolia Orange. W:	Who also taught her grandmother?

	R:	Yes, who also taught in Lincoln Middle School, taught cosmetology at Lincoln Middle School for many years, and started her own, had her own hair business for a long time.

	W:	When I see how the world works, we’re doing a series of interviews with Lincoln High School teachers and students right now, so you’ll be another tie in with that. How did you and your wife meet?





	R:	Actually when I came over, and transferred and left Palatka because I went to St. John’s River Community College in Palatka. I got kind of tired of Palatka area so I moved to Gainesville. After I moved to Gainesville, I was hired as a musician at Williams Temple Church of God and Christ, Dr. D.R. Williams was pastor there. Been doing music there and around the city, and then I was also a security guard for enforcement security corporation. Years ago it was a Pick n’ Save. I don’t know if you remember those Pick n’ Saves. I was a security guard at Pick n’ Save and this beautiful girl walked in and I was taken away. Man she was beautiful. I would see her and glance and then I went to Williams Temple and I would see her come to church when I played. She would sit on the second row, I was like “Who is that beautiful-?” As soon as church was over, after the benediction, she was gone, so I couldn’t really connect. She was quick.

	W:	She was quick.



	R:	I pursued, months later we finally exchanged numbers and she’s just been a wonderful, strong, she’s an only child. I had to cover a lot of bases. Being the only childe there’s a lot of things we had to figure out about each other. My grandmother pretty much spoiled me, you know, and my mom. We’re two spoiled people but we maintained for twenty two years and she’s just beautiful.

	W:	Children, how about your kids?



R:  My son, I got a son, David Edward Richardson III, who’s graduating this year in 2010, from high school. My daughter is Monique Lashae Richardson, and she’ll be a junior next year. Yes, two beautiful kids. My son is introverted like his mom,





but my daughter is outgoing like her father, it’s amazing. Both of them have a strong, strong, interest in music, they love music though.

	W:	Have they talked about college, as a family have you discussed what they might be doing there?

	R:	Yes, my son wants to attend Sails College in Orlando, and take up production work and studio work and stuff and we’re going to find out how much it’s going to be so we’re praying hard. [Laughter] My daughter, she’s still at that place where she’s still trying to decide exactly what she wants to do, she moving more towards theater. I got to take her to the hippodrome to see things later, she’s into theater in high school, she does things and I say “Okay yeah, I can kind of sense where she’s going with this” so—

	W:	Do you have brothers and sisters?



	R:	My brother, I had a brother, I had two brothers, one brother Anthony Richardson. We were, in 1965, this is pretty much where my mother lost my father. We were on our way back to Delaware and at the foot of Mountain State Bridge; there was a collision, head-on collision. In that collision I lost my father, my baby brother Anthony Richardson, and another baby. As a matter of fact, my mother was here, I was here, Ms. Missionary Carney was here, my father was here, my baby brother was here, my uncle Ralph Trammel was in the front. The way it happened, these three died, yeah. I lost my brother, Anthony in 1965, he was about two years old.

	W:	And you were three?





	R:	Yes, I was three, very young, I survived with a burn mark on my leg and a concussion and stuff but I survived.

	W:	What kind of impression does that leave on a young life and on you now to have been in such a tragic car accident at such an early part of your life?

	R:	It leaves an impression to note because, like I said I went to theology school and I am a minister. God has a purpose, has a plan and there’s a plan that I haven’t fulfilled as of yet, because I can feel it. This is why I feel the transition to have just given the university twenty-two years. There’s a plan that I know has to be fulfilled and it hasn’t been done yet you know, and there’s a reason why I’m still surviving. I’m just here trying to fulfill the plan and my destiny.

	W:	One of the great things about these interviews is the opportunity to speak to persons such as yourself. We have some contemporary similarities at the university. In terms of people that are mentors. You mentioned Dr. William Simmons, and when you mentioned St John’s Community College, I know there was a connection because when he left here he did some work over there. What are your impressions of Dr. Simmons?

	R:	Dr. Simmons, wow, he- very brave. Not afraid of a challenge. When I came the Institute of Black Culture was involved, a lot of edgy things that they didn’t mind displaying to the University. During that time there were meetings that he would have with student services at that time and bring in certain people, and he wasn’t afraid to challenge any topic, any subject especially dealing with racism and unfairness. I remember the year we managed to bring Jesse Jackson, to know





that he had that much pull to bring not only him, but other prominent people to the University, even others who were considered to be radical.

	W:	Maya Angelou, Kwame Ture, had a great number of speakers.



	R:	A great number of speakers, that’s why I tell so many students, when I dealt with the executive board of the Gospel Choir, I used to say, “They have ideas, let’s do this, let’s do that.” I’m like, “You do know that even if you do it, it’s been done before.” There’s nothing that you can really do here that hasn’t been done before.

	W:	Nothing new under the sun.



	R:	Nothing, it’s a full circle. Maybe people like me and you Marna to remind of, maybe we’ll do it again. He’s very, very strong and I have so much debt, I owe him, I owe him so much because he opened my world up and enabled me to do wonderful things through the University. He’s a strong, encouraging individual. What I like about Dr. Simmons, one his characters is, if he doesn’t have to put up with it, he won’t. If he’s challenged, he’ll stand his ground. I’ve been in meetings where he stood his ground, he didn’t move.

	W:	One of the great things also about speaking to someone such as yourself who has that institutional history, I mean you’re kind of like the Queen of England. They have a brand new prime minister, but she’s had a lot of prime ministers. You’ve seen all the directors of the Institute of Black Culture, all of the sponsors of the Black Student Union throughout the years, as the Gospel Choir has grown. Recently Dr. Betty Stewart-Dowdell Fullwood retired, the last day of February of Black History Month, what were your impressions of her?





	R:	She’s soft spoken but yet powerful. Our intermingling between Gospel Choir, she was over Umoja. I think she had a connection with Umoja. We always had a connection when she needed us, we were there. I think the influence that she’s had over students just achieving and getting more out of their education and meeting that challenge. She should be credited that because she’s done it greatly. It’s amazing when people like that leave, it just go on, you just can’t fill their shoes, you got to say “Okay, whoever comes, they come but she’s made her mark.”

	W:	A lot of history, here in 1971, in April with the sit-ins. The first woman to graduate with a PHD in psychology from the University of Florida, Director of Student and Support Services for years. You mentioned Umoja of course, started that. For those who wouldn’t know what Umoja was, that is a celebration in the community of African Americans of graduation. The Umoja celebration which has been going on for years now, it’s hard to believe it didn’t always exist.

	R:	That’s right. Also, as you mention her, it’s amazing that even now, since [19]86, since I had the choir, Left one year to go to theology school, came back in [19]89-[19]90, left again with [inaudible 25:33], and then I came back. Seeing all of this happening, seeing the different changes, it’s amazing to note that there were some other sit-ins. The BAM Movement.

	W:	December 1991. R:	Yes sir.

	W:	I was Student Body Treasurer when that happened. R:	So, I remember so many guys that came through.





	W:	Nikitah Imani with the Loyal Order of the 99, White Student Union on campus back then. They were on Oprah I remember those guys, all over the place.

	R:	All over the place. It’s amazing that—it’s a lot of history here, and others some have gone on to be great, to do some great things.

	W:	When talking about history and speaking of the history of the Gospel Choir, you are not the first director of the Gospel Choir. Of course there were previous directors before you. Could you talk a little bit about their influence, the standards they set before you took it to the next level? What are your impressions of the previous directors of the program when you took it over and took it in another direction?

	R:	The directors that came before me they were trendsetters, trendsetters. I say that because when I got into the choir in [19]86, when we used to rehearse in the music building. It was a different form of music.

	W:	Which music building was that, to give some geography?



	R:	The music building that was located behind the clock over on campus, the set. W:	Right next to the clock tower? So south of there?

	R:	Right next to the auditorium. Yes, just south of there, right. When we first went there, a lot of the professors didn’t understand. Why do we need a gospel choir? This form of music, what is it. Extraneous singing and bellowing notes and some were saying it could damage your throat, but to see how it has evolved. Other choir directors like Blaine Edwards; also he was one of the ones that took over during the time Alan Greene

	W:	That’s the early [19]80s?





	R:	Early eighties, yes sir. Dr. Simmons brought him in. As a matter of fact it’s Dr.



	Alan Green. Blaine Edwards and after Blaine Edwards then I think it was- W:	Was it a woman who was director?

	R:	It was a woman, but Marilyn Cannon came right before I did. Before Marilyn it was Dennis Bryant, he the one that was right in there, then after Dennis Bryant, Marilyn and then of course me. All of them were trendsetters that did more than just gospel, they did anthems, hymns, more songs, a variety of songs that would really help give gospel a certain type of prestigious feel so everybody would understand I think eventually after we had workshops, because gospel extrav, that we do now it’s not really what gospel extrav was back in the day. Gospel extrav, now has been condensed into one day, which is that Saturday, where the major artist would come in for a concert. When Gospel extrav was first birthed, it involved a Friday, a Saturday and a Sunday. Friday was of course, a revival, a revival of local choirs, local groups, pure singing. Saturday would involve workshops, dealing with the business of gospel music, vocal training, vocal techniques and all of these sorts and we would have a major artist that would come in and do a workshop with those who would be in attendance. Which actually the people who would be in attendance, would be people that came as far as Florida Memorial, Bethune Cookman College, FAMU, and University of South Florida. It would be crazy because we would have major buses trying to get up in this place here, dropping people off at this circle

	W:	This was before the statewide step show, which has taken centerpiece, this is before that.





	R:	Yes man. It was really a Mecca. And we would actually, believe it or not, we would actually climax at three o’ clock on Sundays in the University auditorium and it would be packed man, and that was the joy of gospel extrav. Which now they just bring an artist in one day.

	W:	Give an example of some of the featured artists; it would help put it in perspective.

	R:	Daryl Coley, Vanessa Bell Armstrong, Kim Burrell, Donald Vails, these are people that you’re probably going to have to go on YouTube because a lot of them aren’t here anymore.

	W:	These are who’s who of gospel; regionally people would know who those people are.

	R:	They would know who they are. Richard Smallwood, the commission, Fred Hammond. Before he was Fred Hammond he was commission. Take Six, a lot of groups, so many that I can’t even think of it. Bryan Cage, still thinking, you know.

	W:	I remember Take Six, we’d call them barstools, they did a stool set.



	R:	Because they sung pure acapella, you can hear every note, every beat you know. It’s been a lot of history.

	W:	How did you end up taking this gig, being director of the gospel choir? Do you feel it was a calling, was it destiny or what is your perception of that?

	R:	I feel like it was a calling, I feel it was a destiny. When I was asked by Dr.



Simmons, it was almost like, you know, the way he asked, it was almost like, Oh yes sure!





	W:	Did you sit down in his office? Did you meet under a tree? What were the circumstances of the meeting?

	R:	He called me to the office in the IBC, he had heard about me, people were talking, buzzing my name around, “This guy, he’d be good for the choir.” He called me and asked me to come in, had a quick interview with me

	W:	Put that voice on him.



	R:	Had the glasses, old school. [Laughter] Yes, he asked me, and I couldn’t say no.



Didn’t know how large it was, as far as me being the director of the University Gospel Choir and serving in that position as OPS. Not a lot of money, but it wasn’t about the money for me, it was about my heart, I loved what I did.

	W:	From small things to great things, if you don’t mind me saying so, you’re extremely modest but the gospel choir went from something that was very obscure, to: “Oh what do Black students want to do on campus? Can you bring that choir the have to play in Gator Growl?” The largest student-run show in the world. Talk about that transition

	R:	It’s amazing. When we did Gator Growl and again our past president, Marcus Dickson, who is now Vice President of the student body, yeah. He was telling me he said, “We’re going to be able to do Gator Growl.” Again, I said that’s great Marcus because we’ve done it like three or four times before. The experience to know that, that door was open and when you got people that experience you and when they experience you, they possibly can be on boards, and big events that can make suggestions that can place you in the right places. It was a very, very





good experience, to be able to reach all those thousands of people with just one song, and being able to sing with Sister Hazel, it was a great experience.

	W:	How do you think those experiences have shaped the students of the University of Florida, community members that participated with the Gospel Choir?

	R:	I think it’s shaped them to the place where it’s moves them to take bigger challenges, to do bigger things. I think it gives them a sense of, if this happened then let’s search for other avenues that can make us as prestigious as this. It brings about a challenge, it stirs up a challenge. I see, when I got ready to leave, so many of them that were enthused still about the choir.

	W:	Would you say it has helped them shape their leadership?



	R:	Yeah, I think it helped them with their leadership. The only thing I wish the leaders would do, and this is one of the things I suggested, when I got ready to leave, that the leaders would do, those who are placed in positions, elected in their position as executive board members, would take what’s needed from the old advice, but not hold the choir to old decisions and have to wait until then but to search for that in depth drive to try to make it better than what it was. That’s one of the things that was kind of disheartening, I’ve seen those get elected that would listen to the old board, this is how we did it then. I think that’s good in a way. It also gives a sense of strangulation, not to keep them from going forward, search for other challenges. Talk to the gospel choir, the members that are not on the exec board. Scan their minds, get their views, see where they want to take it, see what ideas you can get from them. At some point what’s been handed





down, is going to be handed down too much and it’s going to dwindle. So you got to search for other avenues.

	W:	You’re talking about cross pollinization, bringing new ideas for organic growth.



	R:	Bring in new ideas, instead of just leaning on old ideas. Those worked and they worked this year but let’s search for some other avenues and areas

	W:	What is your personal definition of leadership?



	R:	Personal definition of leadership is one who is confident in themselves to the point that there not afraid of delegation, not afraid of not being recognized. Those who are so powerful in themselves that they are not afraid to delegate and allow what your mission is to be distributed among others, so it’s not all about you as a leader. I think a strong leader is a person who involves others, whatever they are over, doesn’t make it them, it’s about what is best for the organization or what’s best this movement.

	W:	I’d like to take you back to a moment about a year and a few months ago, March 17, 2009, there was a program held called Florida Black History where we stand in the age of Barack Obama, where Senator Bill Nelson gave opening remarks, President Machen came, stayed for the whole program, three hours, talked about his vision for the University of Florida and how it included African Americans, people of color, diversity. You were asked to bring the Gospel Choir to do a selection that was easy for you, you immediately accepted. Why was it easy for you to include the Gospel Choir in an event like that?

	R:	It was easy because, I saw it as a twofold. I saw it as a way of the Gospel Choir experiencing and understanding the necessity of the whole era of Barack





Obama, to see where we have arrived, progressed. To get them to a place, that setting to understand that this is something that we need to be apart of, that’s history in hearing upcoming speech from Senator Nelson, to hear the views of President Machen, we need to absorb this. This is an event that’s worth celebrating; I wanted it to feel like a celebration, feel it, absorb it, and to be a part of it. That’s one area that when we sing, “Oh, this is the Gospel choir.” Now that opens up other doors or other views about us, also to promote their leadership.

	W:	That would not take the view or the exception to correct but I want to explore something that I believe you started to say for a second. It started to seem like you felt that God had a role in it. I know you are a pastor, and we are not excluded from talking about personal views here. What role do you believe that God has had in your success, your mission, your vision of the choir, just explaining that since you brought it up, this is an important part of you and I don’t want to define it for you but obviously you have some form of spiritual beliefs, and without me defining them for you, could you define them and how they related to your role here in the things that you do?

	R:	The success, the ability to survive many different things that have come against me. Life is not just full of just the good, it’s full of bad. It’s full of a variety of things that if we try to handle the bad without God it would be almost like committing suicide because life is too big for us to handle by ourselves. I know that any leader, any person in position, there’s some adversity that has to come but it makes you a better leader. It also equips you to be what you need to be, and to make sure if you’re strong willed as a leader, that no matter what feeling you are





getting from anyone negative I can’t let it cause my focus to be distraught or to lose my focus. I got to know I am and have a sense of knowing who I am. God gives that ability to know that hey, when everything falls back, everything seems like they aren’t going right, when you feel like you’re by yourself, “Holdfast to where I have you, I have you in this position. I have given you this rite of passage to do what you need to do, to bless people, to be there for people, to make sure music is received, to make sure that when we go off campus that we present the University and God in a respectful manner, because we’re representatives.” To have God to be able to levy that and to just rest in him, it makes everything that I went through, everything that I have achieved, everything I have received, it makes it bearable, it makes it joyful to know that I’m not alone.

	W:	The University of Florida is going through a period of celebrating the firsts, recognizing contributions of African Americans in the past, we had George Starke on campus. People now know the name of Virgil Hawkins and his significance to the campus; we’re talking about Stephan Mickle and Evelyn Marie Moore Mickle, all these people that have been involved. What is your perception of how the University of Florida is celebrating and acknowledging the past role of African Americans?

	R:	I think it’s needed. I believe that by them celebrating the past of African Americans that have contributed so much not only to the University but to society. I think that it helps those who are in presently trying to achieve things. I think it gives a sense of encouragement to know that one day it may be me that’s on there, not that we doing it for that, to be celebrated, but it’s something to look





forward to. To see that others succeeded because Marna, you know sometimes on campus, in class you can feel as if, “Man hey is this for me?” You get to that point where you’re taking test and sometimes even if the professor doesn’t seem as if there on your side, you have to have a sense of encouragement and believe this is a sense of encouragement to show that you can accomplish, you can be, you can do whatever you put your mind to. Keep God first, concentrate, nothing is going to come easy, there’s sacrifice in everything. To see Judge Mickle celebrated and the others celebrated it shows that there’s a sense of commitment that they had to have, and to know if they are celebrated and received and respected then it shows also that there is no diversity. You come to the university, just do what you’ve been asked to do, and you could achieve.

Nothing is going to come easy.



	W:	Now the last couple of years the University of Florida and the UF foundation started something special working with community relations and other divisions, such a great number of people involved, but the first football game is now Black Alumni weekend, and we had the chance to meet at one of those, some of celebrations involved with them. What do you think it means to the university that the Black Alumni Weekend is on the first football weekend? Black Alums are coming back and celebrating their time at UF? How does that connect in any way to some of the vision that you have for yourself looking forward?

	R:	It connects in a great way because like I said I retired pretty much after 22 years, but I still want to be connected and one of the ways to be connected is through Black alumni weekend, along with the University Gospel Choir Alumni Choir. I’m





excited because you know that’s getting on roll, and even when I was presently with the University it was always asked, oh when are the older people gonna get together, those that graduated and use to sing in the gospel choir? I couldn’t really do it then but I’m excited because I can do it now and we’re looking to make that a big weekend for the University Gospel Choir, the Alumni Choir, to make its debut.

	W:	It songs like a great opportunity because the band does that too. The alumni band comes on the field during homecoming. Do you envision something like that, not necessarily on the football field, but a more prominent role looking forward for the University of Florida Gospel Choir Alumni?

	R:	Yes, as a matter of fact we’re looking at just making a connection, getting individuals in and trying maybe to do a little concert that Friday after Gator Growl or whatever. We’re looking into making that an awesome weekend.

	W:	Terrific. Pastor David Richardson, director of the University of Florida Gospel Choir for so many years, I want to thank you so much to be willing to participate in this interview, and come back and add to the oral history collection at the University of Florida and to share your story and the vision you have for the University of Florida and for yourself going on. I’d like to close the interview by thanking you and offering you the opportunity to reflect on anything that may have occurred in the interview, something that wasn’t covered but whatever your thoughts, your vision for the Gospel Choir, whatever it might be, a conclusion of those remarks. That would conclude our interview today.





	R:	Well, if I can say anything it would be that the University of Gospel Choir has and will always be I think a legacy. I think it’s made its mark. My prayer is that the students who are to come, the elected individuals who are to come, the future will just take hold to what we’ve done, hold on to it, make it better, don’t let it die and just love it because there have been some blood, sweat and tears that have went into that organization and we want that blood, sweat, and tears to continue to be respected, honored and cherished.

	W:	Thank you very much. R:	Thank you sir.

[End of interview]





	Audit-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, July 21, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019