AAHP 469A; Harris; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 469A Oscar Sam Harris African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Dr. Paul Ortiz on January 5, 2017 56 minutes | 24 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 469A

Interviewee: Oscar Sam Harris Interviewer: Dr. Paul Ortiz Date: January 5, 2017



O:  All right, well, it is Thursday, January 5th. My name is Paul Ortiz and I’m sitting with Mr. Sam Harris. Thank you Mr. Harris for coming in and taking time out of your busy schedule to do an interview.

	H:	My pleasure, my pleasure.



	O:	All right, well Sam, we had talked about doing an interview a little while ago and you had talked about wanting to share some aspects of your family history. I wonder if we can start with like, life as a young boy growing up. Did you grow up in Florida?

	H:	I grew up here in Gainesville. I was born and raised here, and never left in a sense. My parents divorced when I was three and we lived with my grandmother in Daytona for several years, and then moved back to Gainesville. So, all of my life since then has been here.

	O:	Wow. And do you mind me asking what year you were born? H:	1957.

	O:	[19]57 very good. Good year! H:	Well, [Laughter] for me it was.

	O:	So what was life like growing up as a young boy in Florida?



	H:	Well, I tell people today that growing up in Gainesville was marvelous if you were a little White boy. It was like Mayberry or something. I mean it was small, and I got my first bicycle when I was seven years old and, we just rode everywhere in town. There was nothing that was off limits to us, it was a safe place. But, that wasn’t true for others, as I grew up and found out. But for me it was very idyllic.





We lived over in the first real suburban housing development in Gainesville. It was Carol Estates, over in the northeast part of Gainesville. And it was amazing, there was lots of University people behind those homes so I got the influence of all of those kind of families in my life, which was nice. It wasn’t the typical slice of life in Gainesville at that point that I got to see. I got to see a very progressive group of people.

	O:	Who were your main role models growing up as a kid?



	H:	Wow. Well, I’d have to say Rev. Earl Paige, who was director at Holy Trinity Episcopal Church downtown. And people in scouting, they were very, very important to me. And in the sense, this isn’t somebody I knew, but Beaty Paul, who founded scouting. You know the ideals that were put up before us were crucial for me growing up ‘cause I was in this very southern, redneck milieu that was here and, those things allowed me, I think, to rise above some of that stuff that would have just come naturally to me in the environment I was being raised in.

	O:	What was your involvement in scouting?



	H:	Well I started when I was eleven and stayed through ‘til I was eighteen, I was an Eagle Scout. And then I went on as an adult volunteer for about fifteen years after that. And just thought a lot of the program. I’m glad that it has grown into the twenty-first century. [Laughter] Now, I was one of the Eagle Scouts who signed the online petition that shamed the national board into saying, “Oh wow, there are tens of thousands of Eagle Scouts who are saying this whole thing about





whether we should involve gays in our program is ridiculous. It’s a fact of life in this country and it should not be an issue within this organization.”

	O:	What year did you sign the petition?



	H:	This was about four years ago I think. It was just as all that was really coming to a head in the national movement. There had been forays added, but this particular part of it was a huge thing in the movement. There was all these men who said “Hey, I represent scouting in such a real way because I’m an Eagle Scout. And you aren’t representing me,” talking to the national board. So to have, like I said, tens of thousands of these signatures come online, and it kind of made it hard for them to say they were representing scouting. [Laughter]

	O:	Well I read a little bit about that, but to be honest I can’t remember exactly the outcome. What was that?

	H:	It is now that, it’s not perfect yet, but a boy cannot be turned away because of his sexual orientation, no matter what. And, gay men can be leaders. And that was the main problem. They had said “Oh, well…” They got real mishy-mashy about boys and it was the basic don’t-ask-don’t-tell kind of thing, but the leadership was where we said, “This is ridiculous. You know you’ve got thousands of gay men who are Eagle Scouts and let’s look at the—gay people are not pedophiles heterosexual people are pedophiles. And you know, you’re all grown-ups, you’re all way to smart.” And once again, I’m talking about to the leaders at the top of this thing to believe that there’s a gay agenda and that they’re promoting boys to a lifestyle is just absurd. And to hide behind that kind of thing anymore was terrible.





	O:	As you see it, you know, thinking about your experiences in scouting as a young man growing up and now your involvement in the struggle to really make the organization more equal, what is the value of scouting today? Is it the same as it was when you were growing up or is it kind of…?

	H:	The program has changed some because of who we, as a country, are. We’ve gone from male heads of household kind of thing and the whole male role model in that sense, and mothers as kind of a secondary influence to, what is it, half the kids in high school are single-parented. And that’s the mom in ninety percent of the cases kind of thing. And women were allowed into leadership roles twenty years prior to all of this, so they had been involved. And the fact that nobody’s child goes out and runs around a neighborhood no matter how safe, clean or nice it is, has changed growing up. And some scouting is now a lot like soccer and stuff. Boys get taken to it, dropped off, picked up kind of thing. We rode our bikes there, we came back, and I had boys, friends of mine, who just basically on Friday afternoon they’d remind their mom, “We’re going camping this weekend.” And they’d take off and come back on Sunday. And it just wasn’t the kind of, you know, who are you going with? We need permission slips. We want to know where you’re gonna be every moment. All this kind of stuff that has caused it to be a less free-flowing kind of thing, and I think more of an upper-middle class kind of thing than it was back then. There were dirt poor troops and dirt poor kids in my troop and it just really didn’t matter then but it’s just part of the way it goes. That’s who can bring a kid, that’s who can afford a uniform for a kid and stuff like that so.





	O:	That’s interesting because yeah, I can remember I grew up in a really working class shipyard town, Bremerton, Washington. And I did Cub Scouts and I remember it was mainly shipyard kids. We were not middle class people.

	H:	Yeah, yeah. And you may have that some places. I have to qualify by saying my understanding is only in the North Florida area. But still I can’t believe it’s that much different anywhere else. The parents who have the time to get involved are the ones who lead troops and therefore, their children get that program. And the single mom who’s working three jobs is not gonna have the time to be on the committee, let alone be the Scout Master.

	O:	Yes, that’s very true. So Gainesville, now you mentioned growing up in Gainesville, and you feel like you had kind of a privileged kind of life growing up. I’ve heard a lot of things about Gainesville in the sixties. What was Gainesville like in the sixties?

	H:	So, small town in the sense of the downtown was the old shopping area even then, but still, it was the heart of downtown because the Gainesville shopping center down Main Street, which was as far away then in people’s minds as the Oaks Mall was when it opened up, just mentally there was this huge gap the sixteen blocks made. But you know, that’s where I went to get my hair cut. What was it, Ozzy Walsh’s Barbershop downtown and Wilson’s was a department store there and their basement had the Boy Scout department in it, that’s where we went to get our uniforms. It was just the middle of what was going on in that sense of things with the university being at the other end of University Avenue, and there being life in between. But still it was sparse, and there was a definite





perceived difference as well as a real difference of student oriented—not in the way we think of now—just, there were lots of students but the world didn’t revolve around the students then like it does now. [Laughter] And I live just across the street now in the University Park neighborhood. Some people call it College Park now. And that was all professors and professional people that built their homes in there. There weren’t any suburbs. Gainesville practically ended at 34th street.

And it was a good thing in the sense that, like I said, if you were part of the right socio-economic group, you had lots of good things and you could be known by your positive characteristics growing up, kind of thing; whereas today, too many kids in too large a place, it’s not possible for that anymore in a sense. And the downtown churches were dominant in cultural life of the city, not just the religious life. ‘Cause we did not have all the far-flown suburban churches that dominate now.

	O:	That’s interesting. We did a project here, our students did a few years ago. I think you’d be really interested in it. We actually mentioned Holy Trinity, and we did a project with the church that focused kind of on the fire and how they were able to recover from that and they posted a documentary, it’s on YouTube, and it’s really interesting cause a lot of the members talked about that kind of struggle within the congregation about, when the fire destroyed the church, some members were like, “Well we need to follow the exodus out.”

	H:	Time to move!





	O:	Yup. And then others were like “No, you know this is our mission. We need to stay in the city.” And it was really interesting and really poignant to see how they made that decision.

	H:	Yeah, it was. And I was on the side of, “We need to stay here.” And admittedly at that point, it was a lot of just personal emotion on my part because I’d grown up there. I had been christened, confirmed, and married in that church. And so, it was, “Don’t change things for me!” But as the discussion went along, I really agreed with “We shouldn’t abandon downtown”, because there was already so much of that talk in Gainesville. What are we gonna become? Are we gonna become this sprawling suburban thing or are we gonna try and maintain a sense of a large town or small city, whatever you wanna call it. [Laughter]

	O:	Yeah, well and the fire must have been just incredibly traumatic.



	H:	Oh it was cause there were two! First the sanctuary burned, which was horrendous and my sister-in-law worked downtown and called my wife and I. And I zoomed down there and had to watch this thing happen. But then the same fella came back, cause we had what we call Parish Hall, Fellowship Hall, separate building, and it was saved. It was a wood-framed building and that’s where we started meeting, that’s where we had church, all that kind of stuff. And he came back, and that burned down. And then it was like, “Wow, this is a double kick in the gut here, how do you get up the second time?” And it was interesting because at that point in my life I was about to undergo a transition that I didn’t see, but my wife and I, early on in that rebuilding process, were recruited to come down to First Methodist Church. She as a music person, and me as their youth





leader, full-time youth leader. And we felt terrible because you know, the church was in such need. And this was after the sanctuary itself burned. And we made the move with all the blessings of everybody. And then, the Parish Hall burned down and so we were down there helping to say, “These are good people. You might wanna welcome them in.” And that was the saving grace, was that First Methodist then said “Okay, we’ll open up our Sunday morning schedule so that y’all can have a service in the middle of it.”

	O:	That’s great.



	H:	Yeah. And it formed some deep bonds amongst people in town who, just in a sense of “you’re different” kind of thing because we’re different denominations. But it bridged that gap amazingly. And you know, families who had not seen themselves as having anything in common for generations that then were together on Sunday mornings bumping into each other and all that kind of stuff. And working out the details of how we can—for Holy Trinity it was, “What can we do? What’s okay to ask for?” and for First Methodist it was, “How do we truly be gracious and say, ‘Okay we’re willing to back off of what we do all the time and just assume that we’re always gonna have use of every one of our rooms and stuff like this.’” So, you know, it was a growing experience for both groups.

	O:	That’s amazing and, I know in the early nineties that was such a time of you know, turbulence in many ways. ‘Cause I remember in some of the interviews people said, you know the first thought when the fire, and I don’t remember if it was the first fire or the second fire coincided with the start of the first Gulf war. Right?





	H:	Um-hmm.



	O:	So people thought there was a connection maybe.



	H:	Yeah, it was an easy time to mix all kinds of stuff together but, yeah, it was just scary.

	O:	Well, Sam, you mentioned earlier that you also wanted to talk about your Great Uncle. Willis McCall and his impact and kind of growing up with that as well.

	H:	Yes.



	O:	Do you want to talk about how he impacted you personally or…?



	H:	In a sense, yeah. I’ve tried to think through and only tell you about things that I know for a fact [Laughter] I was there for and that kind of thing. I don’t want to be—the typical family history is we’ve seen that picture so many times that we believe we were in it. [Laughter]

	O:	Yeah, yeah.



	H:	When they had the event around the Groveland boys and had the families here, that was kind of my impetus. I had read the book just within the past year and was so very effected and realized there was so much more going on than I realized with this man that my father revered but it helped put a lot of the pieces of the family puzzle in place. And I feel an obligation to not to embellish anything, but give things that are factual. I guess how he impacted me at the time was fairly benign but in the ensuing years as an adult, as I started to hear about things even just through the family and then started to encounter things in life in Florida, one of the things I wish I had kept when my dad died—he was a hoarder unfortunately and I had to wait through huge amounts of stuff and I threw away





most of it which was what needed to happen. But, something I remember coming across that he had—it was a big deal when this happened—was the Orlando Sentinel back when that area was starting to say, “Hey, wait a minute, what’s going on?” You’ve got this guy that’s doing horrible things next-door in the County next-door to us in Lake County and are we just going to let this go on?” And the journalism got to be high grade and they went in and started—and one Sunday, their Sunday supplement magazine if you would—it wasn’t slick but— that was printed back in those times, had a line drawing of Willis McCall in his Stetson and it was a paint by numbers. And all of the numbers, which there were thirty different numbers to fill in this portrait, were shades of white. And if you can ever get your hands on that, it just spoke of the times and of him and stuff so much. And when that came out my dad heard about it cause of course my uncle was—my great uncle was, we called him just uncle—he was incensed, big city boys we got no damn business mocking around over here with us kind of thing.

And the word kind of went out and my dad made sure he got to the newsstand here in town and got a copy of the Orlando paper. Cause that was when they used to keep the Sunday paper on the stand for several days afterwards and the out of town papers. [Laughter] And he got several copies and he was very proud of this because his uncle was the High Sheriff. That’s what they called him, many people, which goes back to feudalism [Laughter] and that’s what it was down there, a feudalistic plantation society. And what I had thought was I’d start talking about my dad so that the family relationship is established. My dad was born down in Sanford, but his mother and father—my grandparents—moved





immediately almost back to Lake County, which was where their roots were. And that’s where he grew up in Eustis. He was born in the mid-twenties so he went through the Depression which was awful everywhere. And there’s some people who say in places like Lake County they didn’t know any different because it had always been so bad, so poor. And my dad’s folks were the poor White people who really benefitted, in their own self-esteem, in putting down the Blacks because they were as poor or poorer than some of those folks, but yet they were better than them in that sense of, “At least I’m White” kind of thing. So, he came up to that and his mother’s father—wait, yes. Her mother’s father died when she was a child and she was the oldest of several children and her mother, of the times, this was before the nineteen hundreds, found a husband as quick as possible and it happened to be McCall. It was Willis’ father and not long into that and I don’t know the history of how she died, but she died not very long after the marriage. And my grandmother ended up raising all of the children cause she was about twelve-thirteen, at the time including my uncle Willis. And yet all of her life she was treated as worse than a step-child. And just these were the poor relations kind of thing and it affected my dad, I know that. And like I said, he had almost a hero worship of Willis McCall because here was a man who came by business acumen as well as the fact that if you had power, you could do what you wanted too in that county and he wheeled it and came into money and land and stuff and then became sheriff so that he was somebody important in that community. So, for my dad to be able to say, “Yeah, that’s my uncle.” that was a big deal; gave him a place in the world very much different from what the shack





life he lived growing up because he took me back in the sixties and showed me some of these horrific places they lived. Literally you could see through because the boards didn’t meet and stuff like that. It was poverty that was so common in Florida at that point though. So, that kind of is the framework of where I come in as being born in [19]57 and I have memories that I know from about four years old of going to Lake County, either from Gainesville or from Daytona where we were living at that time. And my dad was still living in Gainesville and all the time that my parents were divorced, before they re-married each other four years later [Laughter] and we moved back to Gainesville, he came over regularly and one of the things that was easy to do—came from Gainesville to Daytona Beach—he would pick me up and it’d be easy to run to Lake County and just hang out amongst these different relatives homes. And this was a time you didn’t even call up and say, “Can I come?” You just stopped in at relative’s homes and we’d do that kind of thing and I’d remember that kind of stuff that was sometimes awkward because as I found out later on, this was an unequal relationship. My dad was liked, but he was still considered the son of the poor relation kind of thing. But, from then through my teens into early adulthood I spent many, many, hours in Lake County and Eustis mostly, Umatilla some. And some of my specific memories of that time and Willis McCall relate to being in his home which, they lived in the same house forever as far as I know, I don’t know if they ever moved when I was well into adulthood because I kind of lost track of things at that point because I started realizing what this whole thing was and he had been thoroughly put down, he was out of office, his son ran I think for one term, one of





his sons, and then he was no longer and they were considered something very ugly that the bedroom community that Lake County was becoming for Orlando wanted to put behind itself. And so, I don’t know that persona non grata counted, but still, it was a different time—

	O:	Different time yeah.



	H:	But, his home was one of the things that struck me at the time as being very interesting. It was typical Florida home, high ceilings, wrap-around porch, no air- conditioning, of course, because nobody had air-conditioning at that point. I was in tenth grade before I lived in a house with air-conditioning in Gainesville. [Laughter] And a lot of my friends still didn’t and the only air-conditioned rooms at Gainesville High School were the library and this new building they had built called a Teaching Auditorium and homes just weren’t. So, this was typical in a lot of sense expect that this wrap-around porch always had at least one, if not two, German-Shepard’s roaming and they were—I found out—they were his first line of defense against the people that he had done horrible things and mostly it was fear of a Black uprising in the community. But, there were poor White people that would have had reason because he was so cavalier in his treatment of people and wielded the power so aggressively and for his own ins and his friends ins.

	O:	When did you first become aware of his reputation and that people— there was this kind of fear of him?

H:  It really came to light when that magazine I spoke of came home. And, cause I then read what was inside and I was like, “Wow!” Because when I spoke to the Groveland survivors I said there was just a feeling of wrong or something in that





whole vibe of being in that community was so odd, but that gave it specifics when I read that article as a—I don’t know I was probably fourteen or fifteen I think.

And then later on here at the University I took all the Florida stuff I could, Florida Geography from Dr. Perckle and both of the histories, one from Dr. Proctor and one from Dr. Gannon.

O:   Yeah, yeah.



	H:	And started hearing about some of that stuff. And as the Civil Rights Movement was starting to be chronicled in the past—looking at it in the past—the one thing that really jumped out at me was PBS did sponsored, or bought, or whatever, The Eyes on the Prize—

	O:	Right.



	H:	And I think you know that only ran once and then got into legal hassles over who owned what and it was tied up in litigation for about twenty years, but I got to see part of that. And one of the hour long episodes was about that whole Groveland and the struggle down in that area of Florida. And a huge number of the minutes, I don’t know maybe fifteen or twenty minutes I think, were focused on Groveland and my uncle and all of his sh—shenanigans doesn’t do it right, but his evil that he had done down in that community to so many people and stuff, and that woke me up as a very young man, I was in my twenties. And then when it finally came out of litigation and it was shown again I made sure I knew when that was going to come on and I had—my wife sat down with me and watched it again. And once again just the impact was huge. And then when the Groveland—The Devil in the Grove was published I got ahold of that I think within a year or two of its—





	O:	At an earlier point, when did you first become aware of the Groveland case? Did people talk about that case or did...?

	H:	Within the family there was—and like I say, it’s a shameful thing for me to talk about it, but it was who these people were. My dad was an avowed racist almost all of his life, but he finally, within the last few years of his life, realized and repented of that, which is the thing I’m most proud of him, of anything he did, ever in his life and he—but the fact that this man Willis McCall was head of the Klu Klux Klan in that area, was in the—that was just common knowledge amongst the family. And the fact that he had dealt with the Blacks, the Negroes, the “niggers,” as it was always couched, that was always the term that was used in his own way. And that he had killed more than one and that was part of the aura that shined around him. That he stood up for this way of life, that these “uppity niggers” as would be called. I hope it’s okay to use that kind of language since we’re talking about the people of that time. There was just this hate and disdain for anybody that was going to come in and tell them, “You need to change”, or, “This isn’t right”, or, “These are human beings” kind of thing. No they weren’t. My dad had stuff that I think came from visits in Lake County these, we call them pulp things, they were printed on newspaper or little booklets that showed Black people as apes and the Pope as a horned devil and things, which was right in line with this whole southern White supremacist attitude of things and so, I’m sorry I lost a little bit of track there. [Laughter]

	O:	No, you’re talking—no this is great. We had started—I had asked about the Groveland case—





	H:	Yes, and knowing this thing about he’s killed people and I mean this was kind of a Wild West kind of thing that I’d encounter as far as guns all over the place in his home, on his hip, in his—when he’d wear a jacket he’d always had a fire arm in a shoulder holster. And there was this, what, I look back now and realize was this heightened security that he kept and those around him kept, these dogs that went with him .Then when they left the house, they went with him, they didn’t stay to protect anybody. [Laughter] They went with him. And these were attack animals. We would have to come up and knock on the door when we were coming unannounced and wait for these vicious things to be pulled back in and then be allowed into the house. And then they’d be let back out and because I was little it was strictly understood, “You don’t go out there. Those are not pets. You can’t pet those. They’re not friendly. They will hurt you.” kind of thing, and that was weird. It was not the common kind of thing. And, like I say, all of the and him, Willis McCall, wearing literally a six gun on his hip on a regular basis and now I understand it was when he had been out patrolling areas and wanted to really put on the dog as far as, “I’m the high sheriff and you better remember that” kind of thing. And one of the memories I have is going down Eustis, which I think is this county seat. Oddly enough, small towns, in America, have chosen to celebrate something once a year to give them a reason to come together and I know that Starke still has a Christmas parade and Alachua does a big Fourth of July thing, and here in Gainesville it’s Homecoming, you know this kind of thing. There thing was George Washington’s Birthday. Which was still a national holiday, not President’s Day back then, and they’d have a parade and fireworks





in the evening and they’d have every restaurant in town, which weren’t too many, but would have cherry pie and all this kind of stuff and it was just a civic pride kind of thing. The kind of thing the Chamber of Commerce would approve of and stuff; “Let’s just get everybody together feeling good.” And I remember going to those parades regularly, not every year, but regularly cause we’d have the day off from school and he’d say, “Let’s go down, let’s go down”. Sometimes it was just he and I, but the memory of Willis on his Stetson horse, no, his Palomino horse, I’m sorry. And he had a Palomino for a couple of decades so it was not the same horse. [Laughter] It was like Lassie, and they kept replacing this thing. And in his big, white Stetson hat and his cowboyish kind of sheriff outfit and these guns on his hip, on that horse and this big bullwhip and he would go down with this Palomino, prancing down the route of the parade and cracking that whip. Which, we look back now and realize this was him keeping” the darkies in line” and showing off; “I’m going to keep this place just like you want me too, all you poor White people who have no other reason to vote for me than this [Laughter] because I’m sure not your friend.” And he wasn’t proposing good things anywhere, of course he was a sheriff, but still he was the highest government official in that county at that point. Because only the state governor could take him out, the County Commission, nobody, none of the county officials had any sway over him.

	O:	Yeah, you don’t think of this. I mean, I remember when I gave a talk at Florida Southern several years back, and a group of faculty took me out for dinner





beforehand and they all had Willis McCall stories and it was amazing that, in my mind, there was no mayor, there was no city council, there was Willis McCall.

	H:	I would not be surprised because he was larger than life and some of that was very much orchestrated and kept built up. Because like I said, and you know, the areas just south and east of that were cow country forever in Florida. So, Lake County had its free-range cows and stuff so this whole western, kind of cowboy mentality was very much alive and well in a working man’s kind of—and so for him to have a saddle decorated in silver and this kind of stuff just really elevated him above even that crowd. But it was sign of, “Yeah, this is who we are.” In spite of the fact that so many of the real Florida crackers were Black people. [Laughter] The irony is so much, but that view of him exhibiting that power in that sense. So, it was—and he was a man who inspired fear. I was always cautioned by my dad, “Uncle Willis is an important man, just be nice to him, and always be nice to Uncle Willis” kind of thing. And yet, he’s like so many monsters that he had this side that I remember him—I was about ten or eleven I think and he took me into their basement and showed me his rock grinding machines—polishing, if you’ve ever heard of that kind of thing. He had taken this up as a hobby and he just wanted to show me all these smooth gem stones and things he had made and stuff and gave me a tie tack that he had—and this was the kind of stuff that people did as hobbies back then, it didn’t look like much, but he had glued this thing onto a tie tack and that was a—my dad was like, “You need to treasure that”. And I did for some reason for years, and I got rid of it. I wish I had kept it now, that kind of thing. But, still it was that he wanted a little boy to think well of





him. And now that I know all that he had done I can understand why he would want that still. And his wife was always very in the background of things. Aunt Dorris, nice women, very strong in herself and had to be. And his sons, there was one that was a few years older than me that I always hoped that he would be there when we would visit. But, it didn’t take long in that process for him to want to have nothing to do with me [Laughter] because he was so much older. But in adulthood I knew the three. The oldest that became sheriff, I didn’t know much about him at all. But the next one down used to come to Gainesville regularly up until about ten years ago to a large Jehovah’s Witness convention that they have here at the O’ Connell Center every year. And he would stop by and visit me and I think he found his solace in religion. And the youngest one, just kind of divorced himself from the family and my dad was always real sad about that. DD they called him, Douglas David, just had kind of wandered off from the family.

	O:	Do you know why he did that?



	H:	I think because of the horribleness of what his dad had done because they knew about this stuff and then the aftermath of trying to live an adult life in that community after that had been all repudiated. And that’s always been my assumption. I never got to speak to him about it. But, he was very close mouthed and I knew for a fact that there was a lot of, what we call abuse now, discipline was the belt and the fist and stuff like that. It was your typical story of that time period of boys being raised by a father who was beating any love out of them they might have [Laughter] as well as living this horrendous life that they knew the details of could not help. Because these men that are mentioned in that book





were in and out of their home. I did not know them. I just know from reading the book that there was no doubt that they—and, shoot. I didn’t bring my cheat sheet. [Laughter]

	O:	No, it’s okay. And my suggestion too Sam is that we actually talk again next week if your schedule allows cause then you can bring the cheat sheet or if you have photographs or anything you want to share. Because I think it’s well worth thinking through—you’ve obviously thought really hard about different aspects of your life and the intersection with your great uncle, my suspicion is though the minute you leave here you’ll be like, “Oh, I—.”

	H:	Right! [Laughter]



	O:	So, yeah we can and I would—in fact would next Thursday at the same time work for you?

	H:	Sure.



	O:	Okay, so I’m just going to go ahead and pencil or pen you in and we’ll say— because there might be other things. I mean there’s a lot of things that come to mind and this is kind of a loop, or not a loop, this is kind of a little far off the track, but I’m trying to get my head around like violence as advocated by state leaders and at what point does—well we still go to war obviously—but at what point does it stop being okay for like a mayor or city official to advocate violence against anyone, and in this case Black people.

	H:	Yeah, yeah.



	O:	So, for example the thing I’m thinking of as you’re talking is Governor Cindy Katz in Florida. So in 1916 when he runs for Govern part of his aura, you know—





	H:	[Laughter] Unstated platform.



	O:	Yeah, unstated platform when Governor Katz goes around the state campaigning for the governorship he depicts himself as a kind of a hero of White man, but in doing that he brags about the fact that he had killed a Black man earlier in his life, he hated Catholics, he despised them—

	H:	Uh-huh. Exactly.



	O:	So, all those things kind of came together, but I remember reading about him when I was a grad student and thinking, “Wow”. And following him in the campaign trail in 1915 and 1916 and just being so astonished that he would, in the middle of a speech, he would talk about, “I killed a nigger” and not that he was saying vote for me because I killed a Black person. But, that’s what he was kind of saying.

	H:	Right. It’s probably his back story that gave him credentials. O:	Right.

	H:	It was a credential at that time, scary.



	O:	And of course Willis McCall comes much later, but it seems like his life was a bridge between an older way of life where he had a high sheriff—and Willis McCall is not the only high sheriff in Florida, right?

	H:	Oh of course not, no.



	O:	He’s just, I think in some ways he’s better known because he’s one of the last of that kind of breed and it must have been astonishing to be both him and members of his family to grow up with that. And even if you knew, you couldn’t have really done anything about it because he had too much power. Even if you





would have said, “Wow he was a bad guy”. It wouldn’t have gotten you very far. The dogs, and the guns, and things like that. But, at a certain point it’s almost like he—history doesn’t necessarily pass him by, but as you mentioned there’s changes in that county that occur which begin to put him at the margins.

	H:	Yep. Yeah. Because what it was [19]71 when Disney—? O:	Yeah, at the time.

	H:	And so much, there was a sea change in Florida over that one thing. Just the ripples went out and out and Lake County was right next door.

	O:	Yeah. And you know the Civil Rights Movement and the enormous changes. I mean you’re describing Florida, which is very important for people to remember that we forget too easily. That’s the pre—kind of the pre-Civil Rights era Florida with tremendous endemic poverty.

	H:	Yeah there’s twenty years between [19]45 and [19]65. O:	Yeah.

	H:	When we were not a part of what the rest of America was doing. [Laughter] People came home from war and went back to the same old crap. It was poor, dirt farming and scratching out a living and stuff. And the road side attractions [Laughter] that that’s what tourism in Florida was. It was not a big business. I mean in the sense of anybody making money hand over fist kind of thing.

	O:	Right.



	H:	And part of my growing up was being here in Gainesville we had our own riots on this campus. We had the sit-ins, we had the protests against the racist president that we named our O’Connell Center after [Laughter] and things like that. We





were mirroring the rest of the country. We were this little microcosm and we were being reported on the national news which was kind of like a freak show because everybody in Gainesville with, “Oh my God, did you see? We were on CBS news last night”. [Laughter] And then the Gainesville Eight, Scott Camil’s brother was my age in school. I didn’t know him well, but while he was being tried and all this stuff it was terrible. And watching that I grew up with—I kid people because my dad had some serious mental illness and made for just ferociously bad growing up time. And, you combine that with my mom, was kind of old South from the Virginia area, and taught manners and you did things certain ways and you sat down at night for a meal. You’d put your napkin in your lap and you use good manners and this was a slow process too. Nobody just sat and shoveled in their food and ran, it was—and so, amoungst this tremendous dysfunction I had this [Laughter] experience of hour long meals at night. And the way we survived those was my dad turned on the news and we would watch the local news and then CBS. And I grew up hearing the racist stuff from him, but also hearing this other stuff literally out of the mouth of Walter Cronkite convince people. And you asked an influence, he is definitely an influence in my life because it was like there are two different sides to this whole thing. And you know, this sounds—this and I’m hearing on this national news—sounds a whole lot more like what I’m learning at church, and in scouts, and stuff [Laughter] than this stuff of Black people are apes and baboons and this kind of stuff and the one Black young man that came to my elementary school, he was just another kid. And yet, my dad was always, “Has he kind of outed himself yet? [Laughter] And I was like, “No,





Ronald it’s just my classmate.” And then in eighth grade I experienced the desegregation on the schools here, which was awful, terrible kind of thing. And that’s when so much the feces hit the oscillator in the sense of those of us who had not been directly, it wasn’t shoved in our face. It was at that point. Because we started seeing, a) they didn’t send any White kids to any of those crappy Black schools. They shut all the Black schools down and sent all the Black kids to White schools. [Laughter] And I was like, “What’s up with this?” And you started hearing the stories about, “Wow this is so nice here and this and that and the other.” And, just the disparity was just—the spell was broken for sure in that time.

	O:	No, this is brilliant. In fact were gonna start next Thursday. I love the phrase, the spell is broken.

	H:	[Laughter]



	O:	And let’s start there next Thursday. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Lisa Mueller December 15, 2017 Audit-edited by:	Samantha Crisanti December 3, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 28, 2019