AAHP 214; Watkins; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 214 Ceola Watkins

African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Akansha Mishra on November 8, 2011 34 minutes | 17 pages



Abstract: Ceola Watkins was born August 25, 1925 at her home in High Springs. During that time, she was delivered by a midwife. She speaks about the death of her father when she was around four weeks old. After talking about her family members and religious upbringing, she talks about her experiences with segregation in her school life as well has her daily life. She recounts the lack of resources she had at her school and the lessons her mother taught to help her navigate the social world around her. She also talks about what it was like for her family during the Great Depression and how her mother always found a way to make sure her children were taken care of. She was present during Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s speech as well as had a chance to meet Mary McLeod Bethune and offers advice to future Black generations.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida]















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 214

Interviewee: Ceola Watkins Interviewer: Akansha Mishra Date: November 8, 2011



	M:	Hi. This is Akansha Mishra and I am sitting in Miss Ceola P. Watkins’ home, ready to begin an interview with her. So, Ms. Watkins, is Ceola P. Watkins your full name that you like to go by?

	W:	Yes.



	M:	Okay, and, when were you born? W:	August the 25th, 1925.

	M:	Okay, and were you born here in Florida, or—?



	W:	Yes, I was born here in High Springs. It was an at-home birth, with a midwife M:	Okay, and, do you, what were your parents’ names?

	W:	Lucius Columbus Palmore and May Etta Cook Palmore.



	M:	Okay, and do you remember your grandparents’ names at all?



	W:	Yes, my grandparents on my mother’s side was Thomas Cook and Elizabeth Cook. On the father’s side, I just know his name, Adam Palmore. And I think—I think the grandmother’ name was Zilfrey Palmore. I know very little about my father’s people because he was killed when I was four weeks old.

	M:	Oh, I’m so sorry to hear about that.



W:  Mmhm. So, I didn’t—I knew of his sister and brother. I met his brother a couple of times. But he had a sister, and her name was Anna Lee Palmore, and his brother name was Zach Palmore. So, I met them.

M:   And Miss Watkins, do you mind if I ask you how your father was killed?





	W:	He was killed by an unknown person. He was driving home from Jacksonville, and they found him side the road. Someone had shot him. And that’s how they found him.

	M:	I’m extremely sorry to hear about that. And did you have any siblings, or cousins?

W:  Yes, two brothers and two sisters. And my brothers were older. The oldest, Lucius Columbus Palmore Jr. and Edgar Palmore. Clara Nell Palmore, and Evelyn Palmore. Those my sisters’ names.

M:  Okay, and are they, did they grow up in Florida, did they grow up with you as well?

W:  Yeah, we all grew up together. But, I’m the only surviving one M:  And did you enjoy growing up in High Springs?

	W:	Yes, mhmm. We visit frequently. We visit in Levy County to the place my grandfather had a farm, and we would visit them frequently. And I also had an aunt that lived in Lake County, a place called Okahumpka. And we would visit her frequently, she and her husband, because they didn’t have any children.

	M:	Oh, okay!



W:  But she did in 1934, early, so we didn’t visit there anymore. But we did visit my grandparents in a place called Montbrook right out of Williston, about five miles out of Williston.

M:   Okay.



M:   Did you ever go to school at all, here in Florida or anywhere?





	W:	Yes. Yes, I went here, we finished here. I went to high school here at Douglass High School.

	M:	Douglass High School in High Springs? W:	Mhmm.

	M:	Okay, and did you go to church, or are you religiously affiliated with—



	W:	Yes, with United Methodist Church. Mt. Carmel. I was christened there, and still a member there—

	M:	That’s very cool!



	W:	I’m the oldest membership person.



	M:	Wow, that’s quite an accomplishment! W:	Yes.

	M:	That’s very interesting.



	W:	Yes, I was very active. In fact, my whole family, my mother was very religious, so the children were too. And we all attended church, Sunday school, and all the activities at church. We grew up in church.

	M:	So you feel very strongly connected to your church, then? W:	Yes, mhmm.

	M:	And, Miss Watkins, is there one specific historical event that you remember living through, growing up here in Florida?

	W:	Other than going through integration, segregation period. I think all Black people remember that! [Laughter]

	M:	Right. Could you tell me a little bit about, you know, how that affected you, since you grew up with that as a child?





	W:	Mhmm, yes, especially in school. We did not have a bus. I lived on the other side of town, which mean I walked to school maybe two miles, morning and evening, we did not have a bus to ride. And we only had eight months of schooling, whereas the opposite race, they had a bus. And they passed by us, throw things out at us. We walking. And then, we didn’t have books. All the books we had was from that school, they’d give us, and then it wasn’t enough books. You know, I think I kept one of the books with the family name from one of the old books, when they were getting rid of the school. Desegrating. I had one of the books, and I kept it. [Laughter] Even, I still have it, it’s up there someplace.

	M:	So you have it here in your home today? W:	Mhmm, yes.

	M:	Very interesting. Now, specifically in this discipline of segregation in our history, I really am interested in how it affected children and their upbringing. Is there anything that you can tell me, kind of, about how it affected you, your emotions or your feelings as a child? Did you ever feel vulnerable?

	W:	Well, my—usually, your parents taught you, let you know. Because, like, if we were go downtown, little town still, we’d go to buy groceries or whatnot. You know, they’d come by; you knew to step out the way. Because you didn’t want to get into any problems. So you walk, and if they going come—you know, the opposite race, I’m talking about—then you just move over and let them pass on by, and you go ahead where you going and do what you want to do. A lot of times, you walk in a place, and to purchase a item, you had to stand back. If somebody from the opposite race came in, you had to wait. They’d wait on them





first, even though you were standing there in line waiting to be waited on. So, you had to wait until this person get what they want before they’ll wait on you. And you know, that was kind of degrading. Mhmm. But that’s the way it happens.

	M:	So, you mentioned that your parents kind of taught you to live this life. But from where you are now, and looking back at the way you had to be so submissive to the opposite race, does it anger you or do you have any resentment towards that?

	W:	No more than, you know, sometime you’ll talk about it. But you were taught, and you knew that this what was happening. And for safety reason, you did that, to keep from being treated different. You know. And so that’s the way you were

	M:	And when you say for safety reasons, could you elaborate a little bit? Did you ever feel like you were in danger, maybe?

	W:	Not really, because just like I say, my mom taught us that this, it’s the way of life. So, you accept that and go on. And like I was telling you, like, the children on the bus would pass; they’ll throw objects out at us. And being—and see, I was the person, when they throw a nice long-length pencil, I’d pick it up! [Laughter] And that’ll be for me to use! So.

	M:	So, you made the most out of it, kind of?



	W:	Yes. You accept it, because this the way it was. So, you accept it and went on.



	M:	From my, from an outsider’s point of view, growing up kind of in the twenty-first century, I just—sometimes it surprises me how tolerant you guys were during this horrible time in our history. And I really commend and admire you for being so tolerant.





	W:	Because your parents taught you to look out for this type thing. And they didn’t want anything to happen to their children. And they—you know, you could hear about different things that happened to different people. But coming up and being a child, you’d just hear about it. Like, some of them would be violent with the family or something like that. You just hear about it or read about it. And that’s— you don’t want that to happen to your child. And they’ll tell you to your family, and they’ll tell you that, “This is what happened, and the reason it happened. This why I talk with you about it.” Like my mother would say, “Well, this is why I talk with you. You see what happen?” If it’s something in the paper. Uh-huh. And that way. But like, my grandfather was a strong-type person. And he had—I didn’t know, [‘til] I was grown—that he couldn’t read or write, but you never would believe it. He owned, had a farm, like three hundred sixty-acre farm. And he had horses, he didn’t have mules. He had his stable built; and he had what you called a smokehouse; and he had his own house, his home built on that. He did not sharecrop. And there was a lot of people that, like in school, that sharecropped.

They lived on Mr. Jones’ or Mr. Williams’ or Mr. Somebody’s farm. But it wasn’t like that. And my father had a good job, because he was a fireman on the railroad. And he had just built a home when he was killed. And that, they kind of believe that it was a racial issue there, because he had just bought a new 1925 Ford. That’s what they killed him in, he was driving. And he had just built this home. And he had a good job. And from what my uncle told me, that he had a bank account, but when my mother went up there to get the money, they only gave her a hundred fifty dollars. And he had more than that in the bank.





	M:	So you think that this is all racially-motivated, then? W:	Mhmm.

	M:	Again, I’m so sorry to hear about that. It makes me sad just to hear—



	W:	And then, after I was a grownup, one guy, he asked me, he said, my family, who’s my parents? And I told him. He said, “Oh! Your father was killed, wasn’t he?” I say, “Yes.” And he say he knew, he heard who did it. But see, they didn’t never investigate or try to find out why that happened. So, if you were Black and something happened to you, especially if it was the opposite race, they never investigated. They didn’t care. They didn’t try to find out who did it, or what, or why.

	M:	Does that hurt you today? Do you ever wonder—



	W:	Yes, mhmm. Because I grew up without a father. And my mother didn’t marry until after I had married. She say she was not going to put a man in over her children. And, so she worked hard, and each one of us, as soon as we were able to work, we went to work. Because I was eleven years old when I started working. And wasn’t getting but a dollar and a half a week. And I was working at a rooming house. You know, because they had the railroad shop, they were active then. And I worked at this rooming house until I finished high school. But after school opened up, I would’ve worked on the weekend.

	M:	So, then, you kind of took school pretty seriously, then?



	W:	Yes. My mother was determined that her children would finish high school.





	M:	So, then what you would say, based on what I’m hearing about your relationship with your mother as well as your siblings, it seems like you have a close family tie?

	W:	Very. Very close. Very close.



		M:	And from what I’ve read, family values are extremely important in your heritage. W:		Right. Very important. And that’s the way it was with my mother and her siblings, it’s the same: they were very close. And they, when she, they only went to

seventh grade where she was living at. And that’s how she finished the seventh grade.

	M:	Okay. Now, growing up as an African American girl, did you have a lot of friends, or—

	W:	Yes, like neighborhood friends, and school friends.



M:  And, did you ever feel deprived when you watched the other White children go to school? Like you said, you didn’t have buses, and you didn’t have new books; did you ever feel deprived?

	W:	Well, yes, you did. And then, like, when my brothers got in high school, you had to purchase your books. You had to buy books. And I remember, they only had one algebra book. And different children would come to our house to study out of that book. And we had one because my mother’ youngest sister had it previous. And that’s, when you were able to buy a book, you did. And you didn’t have books in your home, either. Because you were not financially able to have books. Mmhm. I guess that’s about why I have a thing for books. [Laughter]

	M:	Yeah! I can see here that you have a whole library of books in your home.





	W:	All up under there is books. [Laughter] Like I told you, in the bathroom I have, one of the bathrooms I have books. And in the hallway. And I’m frequently giving paperbacks. Right now, I go to a senior citizens’ noonday thing, and we swap books. And somebody always bring, we just swap books, paperbacks. And recently I’ve been reading Nora Roberts and Sandra Brown. I’ve been keeping up with what they put out. [Laughter]

	M:	They’re great, right?



	W:	Yes, I enjoy their books.



	M:	Nora Roberts I really like. I see a lot of certificates of appreciation and recognition on your wall here. Could you maybe explain what you received those for?

	W:	Yeah, some of them, my husband and mine, just community work more or less. Uh-huh. And I think my son’s certificates and things out front, when you come in. But that’s more or less between my husband, what we’ve had. We both were very busy in the community, and that’s where those come from.

	M:	Now, through my research, I’ve also read a lot about the influence that women had during the segregation period, and how a lot of times they were very courageous and powerful. Do you have anything to say, maybe, about those gender roles during the segregation period?

	W:	Mm, yes. In fact, in Black homes, the mother was the strong person. More or less teach the children. And sometime, the fathers, if you’re fortunate enough, they have one. But mostly, the woman was the strongest member of the family, yes.

In my family it was, because that’s all I had. You know, my mother, and my next door neighbor was the same way; her husband died early. And those two ladies





worked together. Like, if Mother was gone for a day, or had appointment somewhere, she’d tell her neighbor, and her neighbor did the same thing. They’d kind of just keep check on their children. Those two people.

	M:	And you mentioned that you have a son, as well? W:	Yes, mmhm.

	M:	Did you carry on those same values to your own children?



	W:	Yes. I had a son, biological son, and the girl is my husband’s niece, great niece.



And those were the two up there, you can see my son up there.



M:  Yeah, okay. Now, I know when you grew up—you were very young when the Great Depression was going on in the United States. Did that impact you and your family at all?

	M:	Yes. Because my mother was very thrifty. So, she made a lot of our clothes. Like I said previously, that we always got a job. One of the ways she worked this: like, she would take our money, and do layaways with it. Like, get me school clothes for the next year, you get your shoes, and your sweaters, and things like that. Not a lot of them, because you wasn’t getting that much money. [Laughter] Because now, I just wonder how she made it. With the amount of money she was making, you know? And, but it was just being able to work it out, I guess. And then, like sometime, she, like—one I can remember: this man that came around selling things, she’d buy like a bushel of sweet potatoes, gallon of syrup this time, and greens, and different things that would go a long ways with feeding your children. And I was telling a lady who—we were talking about the Depression and how it was—I say, “I don’t ever remember going to bed hungry. We always had





something to eat.” And we used a lot of the legumes, you know, and you canned food. And some farmers, when they finish shipping, they’d let people come in and pick tomatoes, greens, or beans, or peas, and we canned—my mother canned those. And during the winter and all, we’d go out and pick wild grapes, and plums, and another berries—they were shaped kind of like a apple, but it was very small. And it had a very good taste to it, and that made very good jelly. So, we had jelly, and blackberries, cane, and different stuff. She canned up a lot of stuff. Our back porch was just filled with canned goods—in jars, at least. That’s the way she jarred it up.

	M:	Your mother seems like she was an amazing woman.



	W:	She was. And she was a little lady, too! [Laughter] She really, she was. She weighed about a hundred and twenty-five pounds or something, about like five feet. So, she was a small person. Very strong person.

	M:	Oh, yeah. She seems like it. Now, Ms. Watkins, I know that you lived through a lot, a time in our history where there was a lot of political turmoil in terms of—you know, obviously the segregation, but also communist efforts and things like that; and during all of this I know that President Truman tried to appease the civil rights issue a little, but little social change came out of that. Would you say that you felt some kind of change happening with your race at all during your upbringing?

	W:	Yes, you could really tell the difference. M:	Okay.





	W:	Mhmm, very much so. And because, one thing: we couldn’t vote. That came along later. So, I did have a chance to see and hear Dr. King’s speech. I did have a chance to hear him. And another man that, his last name—I can’t think his first name now—but his last name was Dr. Alexander. He was out of Philadelphia.

And one of the things he said that you don’t forget: he was talking about how we were being treated. He say we—well, what you called then was the “Negroes”— were treated like animals. They were thrown on the back of a truck and hauled to the fields to work. And that, you know, kind of made me stop and think: what he was saying was true! That was the way you were treated. And I had a chance to see and hear Ms. Bethune, too. In fact, I went to Bethune-Cookman, down there to school. And just different things. And we had one teacher here at Douglass in High Springs; she was raised here, she and my husband raised during the same period of time. And she did a lot for the students. She didn’t have a family of her own, she never did get married. Her name was Catherine Taylor, and they named the playground up there after her; that’s where that name came from, her. But she would work for children, and try to take them on trips, and things they never—some of the grownups now talk about they never would’ve gotten to go out of town to Tampa, or to the fair, and you know, different places. Busch Gardens, and St. Augustine. And different places they never would have gotten a chance to go if it hadn’t been for Ms. Taylor. And a lot of them, the people would do different things, coming together and raise money to help the children. And our school did not even have a library, and the only first time—didn’t even have, like, typewriters and things like that. Mm-mm. It wasn’t there. You didn’t have it.





You didn’t have a library. You didn’t have a homemaking room, you know, for kitchen and things to teach. But some of the teachers would teach for homemaking. Like, learn to sew, they’d help you with that. And the teachers— like, I remember, I was in high school: our English teacher, he taught music, he was the coach; he did all that.

	M:	So, he did everything.



	W:	Yeah. And they had about three; we had a math teacher. One year, they finally got a math teacher, because he was doing it all, and then you had a science person that taught science, she taught the home-making, too. And you just didn’t have the teachers there. And the principal taught, too. He wasn’t just the principal alone; he taught classes as well.

	M:	Wow. So, would you say that you’re satisfied with the way that things were in that respect?

	W:	Very dissatisfied. After you get older and grown, you very dissatisfied with it. We did not even have a cafeteria when I came up. You just carried your lunch to school with you. Brown bag it, later I found out you be doing. [Laughter] But that’s just the way it was.

	M:	And recently, President Barack Obama was elected. Was this kind of a victory to you, and do you feel like he’s make a lot of changes representing your race?

	W:	Yes, I think he’s doing a fine job. It’s just, you can see the racial thing. If you Black, you can see it—you know, that how he’s being fought against. It’s not getting the cooperation that he should get, I don’t feel like, from the Congress. That’s the way I feel. [Laughter]





	M:	In what way?



	W:	Well, they just seem like everything he present is, “No.” Mmhm. And it’s not cooperating with him. They’re trying to help. And then to me, they’re hurting the citizens more than they hurting him. Because he just one person. But you think about it, you think about all these—

[Interruption for phone at 28:15]



	M:	That was your nephew on the phone? W:	Mhmm.

	M:	Does he come over frequently?



	W:	Yeah, they come. He and his wife, they come over.



	M:	Very cool. So, we were on the topic of President Obama, and kind of how politically things have changed throughout your lifetime, through presidents such as Truman, and Churchill, and eventually President Barack Obama. And you’re saying you’re a little dissatisfied with the way things have been going through his presidential term.

	W:	No, I didn’t say that.



	M:	Or, you’re a little dissatisfied with the way that Congress has been— W:	Yes, they are treating him. Okay.

	M:	I apologize; that’s what I meant to say.



W:  [Laughter] That’s all right. That’s the reason [inaudible 28:58]. But anyway, no, I don’t feel that they are cooperating with him like they should. And I just feel like they hurting the citizens more than are hurting him.





	M:	So, you think that he’s doing his job to the best of his ability, but is being met with—

	W:	Well, I feel like he’s working hard towards trying to improve things. You know. But I don’t think they cooperating with him.

	M:	Would you like to see further changes?



	W:	Sure. I would like to see more jobs for people, even though I’m retired. [Laughter] See jobs, because I do have grandchildren and whatnot. So, I’d love to see that happen.

	M:	Now, Ms. Watkins, sadly, racist attitudes are still apparent today, even though it’s so many years later. If there is any kind of advice that you could give to children who are becoming victims of racialistic attitudes, what would you tell them?

	W:	Well, one of the things they really need to do is to get an education to work hard in school, and try to get an education and stay out of trouble. Avoid crimes if they can. Because once you get that felony on your record, then it’s hard to get a job or things to happen good for you from that. So, they need to really, really try to get an education of all things.

	M:	Is there anything else that you want to convey to students that will be listening to this, or scholars that will be listening to this interview? Is there anything that you—is there any kind of message that you want to get out there?

	W:	Education, number one for me. Education.



	M:	And I know that you personally valued education, because of your mother.





W:  That was one of the things for her: stay out of trouble, get a good education, and try to save you some money. [Laughter] Uh-huh, some other things. And get you so you can get a good job and work.

	M:	Absolutely. Miss. Watkins, I want to thank you again for taking the time out of your day to have me interview you, and I really appreciate it. I know that just by listening to this, the answers that you’ve told me for the past half an hour or so, I’ve already learned so much from what you’ve told me, and I just want to let you know that you’re going to contribute a lot to thousands of other people just by sitting with me here today.

	W:	And one of the things: like for voting, and, you know, Johnson—no, Johnson, LBJ Johnson. “LBJ,” they called him a lot. He contributed a lot to the civil rights. He helped them, especially for voting.

	M:	Right. So, that was one president that you do commend? W:	Yeah. And President Kennedy.

	M:	President Kennedy.



	M:	Are the actions of any other presidents, did they affect you negatively in any way?

	W:	No, no. No, I don’t have anything to say on that.



	M:	Okay. Thank you so much again for sitting with me today and I’ve already learned so much from you. And I’ll keep in touch.

[Break in recording]



	M:	Go ahead, Ms. Watkins.





	W:	I said I’m very proud of my son; he’s a medical doctor in Atlanta, and he has his own office.

	M:	Does he? Okay. What kind of doctor is he? W:	Internal medicine.

	M:	That is certainly something to be extremely proud of. W:	Yes, I am very proud of him.

	M:	And I can see that you’ve definitely raised him properly just like how your mother raised you.

	W:	Right.



	M:	Very nice. Well, thank you once again, Ms. Watkins. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Akansha Mishra



	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, December 22, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 21, 2019