AAHP 460;; Cleaver;; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 460 Kathleen Cleaver

Interviewed by A.J. Donaldson on November 2, 2016 1 hour and 8 minutes | 37 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Kathleen Cleaver talks about her parents’ involvement in activism in the South. This led to her own involvement in Civil Rights Movement. She went to a Quaker grammar school and then on to Barnard College. She was an organizer of SNCC at the Atlanta, Georgia headquarters. She eventually went it California and started organizing for the Black Panther party and the Huey P. Newton campaign and talks about her experiences with the party.



Keywords: [African American History; Tuskegee, Alabama; Richmond, Virginia; Atlanta, Georgia; California; Black Panther Party; SNCC]



Standards:

SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.

SS.912.A.5.7 National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) SS.912.A.7.5 Civil rights tactics

SS.912.C.2.8 Analyze the impact of citizen participation as a means of achieving political and social change.



AAHP 460

Interviewee: Kathleen Cleaver Interviewer: A.J. Donaldson Date: November 2, 2016



	D:	I’m A.J. Donaldson, graduate student-­-­Oral History Program-­-­University of Florida. Today is, Wednesday, November the 2nd, 2016, and I’m here with Mrs. Kathleen Cleaver and we are going to begin the Oral History Project for the African American History Project. Dr. Cleaver, first of all, thank you for your time;; I really appreciate you taking the time out for us. I really had an interest in diving right into something that struck me in one of your, I would say, interviews, you were referring to your parents and you said something about your mother being a Savant, in the sense of her interest in math and going to college—

	C:	No, she was a prodigy. My mother had finished high school and college by the time she was thirteen or fourteen. She was a graduate student in math at the University of Michigan and graduated with a Master’s degree when she was sixteen. So, she was ahead of the curve.

	D:	Yeah, and that type of environment;; how was that environment growing up?



What was the expectation?



	C:	Well the environment… well my father said he thought maybe I would’ve been finished college by sixteen, but it didn’t work out. In fact I had quit college by the time I was about seventeen or eighteen. I didn’t care for it. I dropped out. Also, my mother was a prodigy in mathematics, but not me. I’m not a prodigy of anything, particularly not math. But she was a singer, and I wasn’t a singer, so he said that he thought maybe I would be finished with school when I was sixteen, but I wasn’t. I was still going through it. But, my mother was extraordinarily unusual and she was also in a town, Richmond, Virginia, where there was a





possibility for you to be able to go to school all-­year round, so she accumulated. She would go to school all-­year round, so that’s how she got so many credits and, I think she was about thirteen when she went to college. But she could do that. You can’t do those things now. There’s age limits and you know, so forth. And her father was on the faculty at the Virginia Union, so that also probably made it easier for her to be there as a teenager;; very young teenager.

	D:	So, she went to Virginia Union as well. So is it that connection? C:	What?

	D:	Because he was on faculty at Virginia Union, so your mother attended Virginia Union-­-­

	C:	Well… yeah, yeah



	D:	Okay, because we were talking about that earlier when—



	C:	Well, it was a Black college in Richmond. There were a lot of other people that went to Richmond who weren’t their father’s children. [Laughter] But most of her friends that I hear about, they all went to Virginia Union.

	D:	Yeah I asked that because I wanted to know if there was some kind of organizing going on with your parents outside of the academics and the educational realm.

	C:	Well, yes, my mother was active in an organization in the 19…well I’m not sure exactly when, but it was called “S” let’s see, “Southern Negro Youth Congress SNYC”, and they’d do demonstrations, they’d protests, they’d challenge segregation—activism analogues to what people in the [19]60s were doing, and my father was in an organization called—it was part of the NAACP. I’m not sure what they called the group;; but he was an activist in Texas when they were





desegregating the all-­White primary, which happens to be very dangerous. [Laughter]

	D:	That sounds like it’s dangerous.



	C:	It is, it is, but the case went up to the United States Supreme Court, I think it’s called “Smith v. Alright”, and they said that the Constitution prohibited it, so they were successful in challenging it in Texas.

	D:	It’s so interesting that you mention that with your father and his involvement with the movement in that capacity. What gets my attention is also how you said at some point, and you can correct me on what number is wrong, where he gave you an option. You said, “I want to go into the movement, but I get a better education-­-­

	C:	No, what it was is I was a student at Overland, and I had gone to college the first year. And what I didn’t realize, until after the year, is that the high school I’d gone to;; I’d gone to a Quaker School, which was boarding school because my parents were in Africa, and that school had very advanced classes, like African American Studies, is experimental class in my senior year, and you had some other advanced things. So when I got to college, they didn’t have the type of classes I’d already had, so I was kind of bored. They wanted to put everybody on the same plane, because you came from different schools, it was a small college, and they had all these required class. And, it wasn’t as stimulating as my high school had been, and so I actually didn’t like it that much, and I wanted to leave [Laughter].

There were other reasons I wanted to leave;; I had some health issues, but I just wasn’t that impressed. It was such a big build-­up to go to college, and so I had





taken a year off and ended up moving to New York and going to a different college. So I was kind of behind. I wasn’t actually behind;; I was just taking more time to go through college than most people.

	D:	And the number;; is it eight hundred dollars or what is it?



	C:	Well no, no, no, what it was, I went Barnard in New York, which is a very fine women’s college, and most of the time, after a couple of weeks, I stopped going to the classes and just took my exams and I got pretty much the same kind of grades I had a gotten when I had gone to a college and gone to class and took the exams so well this is a waste of time. So I told my father that he should, he had some money set aside, that he should give me the money that he was paying to Barnard, and I would go down to Atlanta and work in the SNCC organization, I’d get a real education.

	D:	Okay, okay. So you took that money and did that? C:	Yes.

	D:	Alright, now, before we get too far ahead, you mentioned Africa, so you lived abroad?

	C:	My father was a Foreign Service Officer, he was a college professor for a few years in Tuskegee, he taught at Wiley College. I don’t remember any of this. What I remember is arriving in Tuskegee Institute, where he came to head-­up something called, the Rural Life Council. He was a Sociology professor and he ran programs for farmers, Black farmers, and developed ways that they could benefit from various agriculture department programs. So that was his interest and at a certain point the vacancy, the presidency of Tuskegee Institute, where





he was on the faculty, became vacant. And the man who became the president was the business manager whom my father thought was not as good a choice;; it should’ve been him, so he left. [Laughter] He left, and went into the Foreign Service. He left teaching as a profession and went into what became rural development. He went into the foreign aid program. It is very early aspect of foreign aid to work with farmers in rural India.

	D:	Do you know Memphis, Texas?



	C:	No, there is no such thing as Memphis, Texas. D:	What’s that about?

	C:	I have no idea. Idiotic.



	D:	Some kind of person put that up there.



	C:	There is no such place as far as I know. I’m not from any Memphis;; not from Memphis, Texas or Memphis, Tennessee. I’m not from any of them.

	D:	I’m glad you cleared that up because I was like this can’t be right. C:	You’re right. It can’t be right.

	D:	What I really wanted to get to was terminology before we get to the movement. I just want to establish some…you seem to be really serious on terms. I was watching one of your interviews and you were mentioning Black Nationalism and people throw around Black Power, some people throw around Black Freedom Movement, Civil Rights Movement. Is there some kinda way that we can try to set some understanding of what it is those terms meant?

	C:	It’s time. There is an overarching concept of Civil rights activism that seems to have everything in it, that’s against racism or other forms of discrimination. And





sometimes it’s a movement and sometimes it’s not. There’s been a civil rights activism in a long time, but the Black Power era begins after 1966 in June when somebody makes a call for Black Power that wasn’t out there. That’s Stokely Carmichael in Mississippi. Before that, the call had been “Freedom now, freedom, now. What do we want? Freedom now.” By the time the [19]64 Civil Rights Bill was passed, people in that area of the movement felt that “Freedom Now” had been realized. There was a Voting Rights Act. All these laws had been changed, so the issue was political power, which had not been realized. That’s where the call for Black Power arose. Well, it arose in 1966. That’s kind of a different concept. If you want civil rights, then the government could pass a civil rights bill, which it did. It took a long time, but this is within the government. If you want power, that’s another thing. It’s a political reality. They can’t pass an act to give you Black Power, but you can engage and mobilizing and run candidates and enhance the political power of people who are Black.

D:  Now that I got that understanding, how do you enter into the movement, coming out of high school? What’s the earliest point in your mind of you entering into it? Was it as a child? Was it—

	C:	Well, my parents were activists. In Tuskegee, where we were living;; it’s forty-­five miles from Montgomery. In Montgomery, in order to protest the fact that Blacks were denied the right to vote, they decided to boycott the busses. And Montgomery had something called the MIA “Montgomery Improvement Association,” which was a replacement for the NAACP and the Tuskegee Institute had something called the TIA, “Tuskegee Institute—“, TCA, “Tuskegee





Civic Association,” to replace the NAACP because a Supreme Court decision had made it possible for state governments to get the membership lists of the NAACP. So Black people at that point didn’t want to be part of the NAACP. They kind of shut it down since they could be spied on. So TCA and Tuskegee and MIA and Montgomery were the kind of activist vehicles that people were using.

And my parents were involved in TCA. You’ve heard of Rosa Parks and people in Montgomery. Montgomery and Tuskegee are like forty-­five miles apart, so they’d have meetings together and they’d go back and forth. This is very much the same community. Part of it’s in Tuskegee and part of it’s in…Rosa Park’s family home is outside of Tuskegee. It’s in a county that borders Macon County. This is her home turf and so is Montgomery. Anyways, we are all in this together. That’s when in Montgomery, the citizens boycotted the busses to protest segregation. We didn’t have any busses in Tuskegee, so they boycotted the stores. To boycott the stores meant you had to go and buy food or groceries or clothes somewhere else. There was always at least carpools going somewhere other than small town of Tuskegee to purchase what you needed.

	D:	Were your families leading some of these carpools in a sense?



	C:	Well, everybody—you have to get in your car and go buy your groceries somewhere. [Laughter]

	D:	I was just wondering who had cars. A lot of people didn’t have cars.



	C:	A lot of people in Tuskegee had cars because it’s professors. Also, they don’t have any busses. They don’t have any taxis. [Laughter]





	D:	So they had cars. Okay. Now that you have this experience with the Tuskegee bus boycott—

	C:	Not, Tuskegee doesn’t have any busses. D:	Not bus boycott, Montgomery bus boycott. C:	Tuskegee was a merchant boycott.

	D:	When you have this experience, what is the momentum that brings you toward coming to your own and joining the movement?

	C:	I was about six years old. D:	That time, but after that—

	C:	It was what was happening. I was in high school when the students in Albany began demonstrating against segregation and they held these protests in high school. They would get arrested, and I saw pictures in the newspapers. I was in Pennsylvania in school. I saw the newspaper pictures of these young girls being hauled off in paddy-­wagons and they were singing. I said “Oh, that’s really interesting.” It’s intriguing that they are very happy and they were clearly activists. They were arrested, and so I say well, that’s amazing. I wanna do what they do. But I was in Pennsylvania. I couldn’t quite get to Albany, Georgia. [Laughter] I got that energy. I was in support of them and something happened at my school. I can’t remember quite exactly what it was, but I made a petition to speak every Thursday I think we had assembly and it had some kind of theme. So I asked the teacher who ran the assembly if I could talk. She said yes and she didn’t ask me what it was about. About the demonstrations in Albany, some student at my school, which is a boarding school, had put up a note that she wanted the





students to fast in sympathy with the students in Albany who were fasting in jail. They were fasting to protest their arrest. It’s a nonviolent protest. Another student put up a note to challenge what this one student said—the student who proposed the fasting in the dining hall was a woman. This was a guy who said something to the effect of “We should think of something more cooperative,” which I thought was really stupid. Nonviolent protest is very graceful and it’s passive. And if you just don’t eat, I don’t think that is uncooperative. But this particular student felt that that was some kind of aggression on him or whatever. So I said what is wrong with this person? What possessed him to think this way? I didn’t actually know that much about the boycott, but I knew that it wasn’t something you should be condemning. I found a way to learn more about it, go to Philadelphia, interview people who were in the Civil Rights struggle in the South, and then I came back and asked the teacher who was in charge of the assembly if I could make a presentation. That presentation was essentially advocating on behalf of the demonstrators and SNCC, and what they were doing, and why it was a good thing, and why people should support it instead of condemn it.

	D:	That is so fascinating because as I listen to you talk about, it seems it’s organic.



Things are happening all around you and you just—



	C:	Well, it was the [19]60s. [Laughter] Things were happening all of that time. Also in Alabama, Montgomery was a sort of a hot spot of Civil Rights activism.

Tuskegee where I lived is like forty-­five miles away, so it’s the same era and it’s the same kind of people and essentially have educated college professors, professionals, who are in a position to boycott without it harming them. If you are





working in a grocery store, and you decide you gonna go on a boycott, you could get fired. There could be retaliation. In any of these communities where there is boycotting, the businesses and the leaders would try to figure out and stop the boycott and how to coerce people into continue to come back. In Tuskegee, it wasn’t too effective because the professors and faculty members had cars and they could drive somewhere else to shop. Now, if you’re a farmer who comes in on a horse and buggy from the countryside, you might not have as many places to shop. The boycott was very effective in Tuskegee just like it was effective in Montgomery. The bus boycott was very effective.

	D:	I’m from Tennessee. I’ve read somewhere where you were organizing somewhere at Fisk at some point.

	C:	Fisk was a site where the Student Non-­violent Coordinating Committee held a conference. The conference was a Black student conference in the wake of the Black Power claim, the call for Black Power. How did we call it? We had a saying, “Liberation would come from a Black thing.” That was a statement that I think Jim Forman had made. That was a theme of a conference that we called in [19]67 to bring all the activist student groups to the Fisk campus, so we could all understand and learn about Black Power;; the new phase.

	D:	Do you have a particular role or title—



	C:	I worked in a group called the “campus program.” There were people who would travel to the campuses and organize students who were called campus travelers. My job was I basically stayed at the office and I wrote up, documents, took notes at meetings, I typed stencils for a set of readings that we circulated so that there





was a more comprehensive understanding of what Black Power was. I happen to have a copy that I found recently… I did office work, communications.

	D:	How did the conference go? Did it happen? Was there—



	C:	Well, it sort of happened in the sense that the facilities at Fisk University were available for a while. Anyways, the students came. The student activists that were plugged into SNCC managed to come to the campus because they had cars. There was a freak snowfall in the east coast that same weekend, so the adults that—writers, people like Leroy Jones or Mary Baraka, or Gwendolen, not Gwendolen, Margaret Walker was in… Anyways, the writers and other adults never made it because—

	D:	You had these guys prepared to speak. They were coming to—



	C:	But they couldn’t get there because of a blizzard. There were no flights. The only person who got to the conference who was scheduled to be a speaker was Eldridge Cleaver because he came from San Francisco. They ain’t have any blizzards in San Francisco. [Laughter] We had all the SNCC activist and Eldridge Cleaver. That was our conference.

	D:	Had you known him at the time or was this your first time meeting—



	C:	Well, we had invited him to come to this conference. This was a SNCC conference and he is invited as a speaker and quite a few other people were invited as speakers, but he’s the only one that managed to get there.

	D:	So this was your first time meeting him?



	C:	Many people’s first time meeting him. [Laughter] Hadn’t been out of prison very long. He had been out about three months.





	D:	From there, I’m just trying to coordinate the timeline, so you’re working in SNCC—

	C:	In Atlanta.



	D:	In Atlanta. How do you end up going to California?



	C:	Well Eldridge Cleaver was from California and he was a prisoner and he was on parole. He got permission to come to our conference. To visit, the parole officer has to allow you to leave the jurisdiction. He came for a while. Then he had to go back to California. By the time he went back to California, he and I had gotten very interested in each other, so I wanted to see him again, I would have to go all the way to California because he wasn’t allowed to leave again. They didn’t like the fact that he come and hooked up with Stokely Carmichael and people like that. Stokely Carmichael was a big scary person back then.

	D:	Very scary.



	C:	He called for Black Power. It had never been done. And the time that he made the call, it was at night, and was in all the television shows because it was during something called the “Meredith March.” There was a march across the Mississippi and at one night after he’d been arrested, they’d have these rallies and they would say, “What do we want? Freedom now, freedom now.” After one night when he had been arrested and came back, stood up on the flatbed truck, and said, “No, no, no. Black Power. Black Power.” So people started calling “Freedom Now” he figured the Civil Rights Act had handled the Freedom Now.

His call for something other than mule change because Black Power is a political call. That’s where the call was made in Mississippi on this Meredith March.





	D:	The march against fear. C:	Yes.

	D:	Okay. So, you ended up in California and –It just fascinates me how wherever you are, you are able to start organizing and getting—

	C:	No, we’re in a movement. I’m not wherever I am. We’re in a movement that’s called the Civil Rights or Black Power movement. They kind of merged because the Civil Rights movement was what was attracting me, but by the time I got into it, Civil Rights had been passed, the Civil Rights Act. The movement became more of a—some people called it Black Liberation, some people called it Black Power, some people called it other things. But it was all Black. Whatever it was, it was—no Negro movement. It was Black movement. [Laughter].

	D:	Transitioning into I guess what becomes the Black Panther Party. C:	There was no Black Panther Party;; not at the beginning.

	D:	Well, not yet.



	C:	Let’s see. The Black Panther Party started in October of 1966. The Black Power call in Mississippi came…

	D:	June 1966.



	C:	Yeah. So, it was inspired. The Black Panther Party was inspired by the call for Black Power. The Black Panther Party didn’t exist when the call came out.

	D:	Okay. It’s the Black Panther Party of self-­defense, but there’s also other organizations that are splintering out Black party—I think I read something—

	C:	There were several organizations that took that name. The Lowndes County Freedom Organization which was a political party that was created to implement





the call for Black power in Lowndes County which was a 80 percent Black county that no one had every voted in. They used that project—SNCC used that project as a demonstration of Black power. The word is out there;; the concept is out there. There was a Black Power groups, people with different kinds of names implying that they are supporting Black Power, Black consciousness groups, Black cultural groups. It became a very, very exciting new way of organizing and people sort of throwing off this notion because concept of Negro became associated with segregation. Not that it has to be, but that’s because that’s what we were rejecting. So Black is associated with liberation and independence, end of colonialism, end of segregation. That’s how it was interpreted. So Black was something brand new, consciousness-­wise.

	D:	Okay. I wasn’t saying that everywhere you went it was going on. It was just— C:	I went to places where stuff was already going on.

	D:	I see, I see. You knew where to be.



	C:	Well, I came to Atlanta and joined SNCC. I was living in New York, but the people I knew in New York, their organization was based in Atlanta. So I came down to Atlanta, worked in the headquarters of the Student Non-­violent Coordinating Committee which was in the process of basically disintegrating. It had been a very huge operation with a big budget and a big building. By the time SNCC was identified with Black Power, it kind of cratered and a lot of the money left and people left. It had a big office, but very small staff and no income.

	D:	Was John Lewis the chairman at the time?





	C:	No longer. Stokely Carmichael. Well, he had been the chairman for quite a few years and he was always elected because nobody really cared about being the chairman. When I came into SNCC, the first time I went to one of their staff meetings, they had a vote to elect the chairman. They elected John, went to sleep thinking he’s the chairman. But they had a few more votes while he was asleep. He woke up and found out that Stokely Carmichael was the chairman. “What?” “When did this happen?” “While you were asleep.” [Laughter]. I knew Stokely and also the people I worked with close to Stokely, so I was on the Stokely side of this change in SNCC.

	D:	What was that side? What did it represent—



	C:	Black Power. It was not the Freedom Now side. D:	It was not the Freedom Now side.

	C:	It wasn’t the John Lewis side. In fact, he was very disappointed and he left once he found out Stokely was the chairman and he wasn’t the chairman. He left.

	D:	I see October as a marker of 1966 Black Panther Party is formed. You’re in California.

	C:	No.



	D:	Not yet?



	C:	No. I didn’t have anything to do with forming the Black Panther Party. D:	No, no, no. I’m saying when did you move to California?

	C:	When did I move out there...? I went in November—I think it was November. D:	November of [19]66.

	C:	No. November of [19]67 I think.





	D:	November of [19]67. Okay. So, what I’m getting at, I’m just trying to keep the timeline going and I’m looking at how you gradually get to organizing at some point with the Black Panther Party and Huey P. Newton campaign.

	C:	Well, we started it. Newton was arrested in a shootout with the Oakland police. He was shot and a policeman was shot, and another policeman was killed and he was arrested and charged with murdering a policeman and wounding another one and he was facing a gas chamber. He wasn’t doing much;; he was jacked up, you might say. They have a cell at the top of the Alomini County Jail. He was up in this-­-­, so, the Black Panther Party For Self-­Defense, that he been a part of, had pretty much collapsed by that time. It had nothing to do with what happened to him. It had to do with the fact that the Black Panthers had planned a demonstration at the state capital. They gone up there because the bill, called Mulford Bill was being debated to change the law that had allowed the Black Panthers or anybody else to openly carry weapons in public. And so, once the Black Panthers, as an organization, did this, the state legislators said they want to change the law that permitted open carrying of weapons ‘cus they were fishing game laws, so they didn’t like the idea of organized Black group carrying weapons, so they wanted to change the law. And that—that legislation, that negotiation, at the state capitol is something that Bobby Seale brought a delegation of Black Panthers to observe. No one in the delegation knew where to go to observe the state legislature and they asked reporters, who was absolutely flabbergasted to see these twenty-­two young men and women with guns, openly carried, walking through this halls of the state legislature. So they sent them to





the wrong place. They ended up walking right into the hall, right into the place where the deliberation would happen.

	D:	Right where it was going on.



	C:	Right. And the people who were there thought that they came to shoot them or something.

	D:	Yeah.



	C:	No, no! This was—excuse me, we are just looking for the observation deck. [Laughter]

	D:	They walked into the wrong room. C:	They walked into the wrong room.

	D:	Oh, man. That could have been taken any kind of way.



	C:	Well, they walked out. But I’m sure none of the state legislators in California had ever seen twenty-­two men and women with long guns walking into state legislature.

	D:	Fully armed.



	C:	The headlines were rather strange. I think they thought it was an invas—they didn’t know what to think and I’ll tell you what we found out years and years later when [inaudible 31:02] peoples was making a film about the Black Panther Party. He found out that, the entire state capitol of California, in Sacramento, the entire building, has four capitol policeman. That’s just their job to be the capitol police, but twenty-­two Panthers came there with weapons to observe, so these capitol police were nowhere to be found. [Laughter] They just disappeared.

	D:	Four police officers and then—[Laughter]





	C:	They didn’t know what was—



	D:	It’s above their pay grade. Back to the campaign for Huey campaign. What I noticed was that so many times, and that’s kinda getting into the gender politics of the party. Women were organizing in ways that don’t get a lot of credit.

	C:	No, no. The Panthers didn’t have any gender politics. D:	Nobody under politics.

	C:	No, they didn’t. They didn’t even use the term. Men or women could join. It just so happened that more men seemed to join at the beginning. But, that’s ‘cus a group of men started it like two or three—three men started it. There were women in the group that went to Sacramento. There were women as part of their organization, but they weren’t particularly featured. The women who I know who was the first one to actually actively join the Black Panther Party was a woman named Joan Lewis or Matilaba—that was the name she used at the time. She became a member and part of her-­-­she was the same age as one of the high school kids;; she knew him. You know, “Can I do this if you’re doing it? Can I do…?” “Yeah!” “Can I get a gun too?” [Laughter] It wasn’t thought of as an organization that had men and women in, but women came into it and it became one. There were two men that started it. This is a start of an organization, yes.

	D:	Bobby Seale… There is a situation where-­,and I think many people, scholars, would attribute the Huey P. campaign to basically give it its resurgence, to pump life back into the organization.

	C:	Well there wasn’t any organization when Huey got arrested. It was collapsed. Bobby Seale was in jail because he had been arrested…activities at the state





capitol. Huey hadn’t gone. He was out. People thought he was a little bit too hot headed to go up to Sacramento, so he was free. But when Bobby was in jail, he was also free. He was left to his own devices. He ended up getting wounded in a shoot-­out and then he got, county jail facing death penalty. Bobby was in Santa Rita prison serving time on the Sacramento invasion if you want to call that.

That’s about the time I came. There wasn’t anybody actually leading the party at the point. They had an office that they had lost, so I came out there after Huey was arrested. Eldridge was a parolee;; he couldn’t travel and he met me in Tennessee. You’ve got to come out here and help us. I came out there. The first meeting was Eldridge and about four teenagers and me in a room, an empty apartment. He said “We gotta save Huey. He’s in big trouble.” He’s facing one count of murder and one count of an attempted murder of a policeman. It’s like the worse crime. And he’s facing the death penalty, and he’s Black, and he’s the Minister of Defense for the Black Panther Party for Self-­Defense.

	D:	I guess so many people gloss over this period, but to start from that point, you in a room fourteen teenagers—

	C:	No, not fourteen. About five.



	D:	Five. I’m sorry. [Laughter]. Five teenagers. C:	And Eldridge.

	D:	And Eldridge. And from there, is it the memo, is it the posters or the signs? I want to get into that first idea of what’s going to be the first move in the organizing.

	C:	“[Inaudible 35:43] have to save Huey,” ‘What are we going to do? How are we going to do this? Well, let’s think of something.’ Where is Huey? Huey’s in the





courthouse. Well, maybe we should go to the courthouse and have a demonstration. “Well, I don’t want to march, but I’d march for Huey.” so this is like breaking out the protest model and drawing attention to—my idea was to draw attention to the case by having a demonstration at the courthouse where he’s up on the tenth floor and then sending notices to the press that there is a demonstration and bringing some attention to the case. So that’s what I contributed to the beginning of this era.

	D:	Now does this create your position as the national— C:	I created it.

	D:	You created it.



	C:	There was no position. They didn’t have any organization. It’s a state of collapse.



I had to identify myself because I sent a press release to the press. I had observed what Julian Bond did in SNCC. He called himself the communications director. He issued press releases. I issued a press release and signed it, “Communications Secretary.” I’m taking a model that he created. You have to be somebody. Then I put my name to identify who sent this press release.

	D:	The rest is history. [Laughter] I mean— C:	It took a while. [Laughter]

	D:	It took a while. You gloss over it so smoothly, but it’s such a—



	C:	Well it’s a very explosive time. Okay, this is [19]66. The Vietnam War is going on.



I think we have elections coming up soon. There had been a lot of riots of what they call uprisings…In a couple of years, Martin Luther King is going to be murdered. That kind of changed the whole dynamic in the country. It was a very





intense time because of the Vietnam War and because of the agitation and uprising, rebellion, whatever you want to call them in Black neighborhoods across the country. They called them ‘Long Hot Summers’ from [19]63 to [19]66. After [19]66, they just start calling them “summers.” This is not just ‘cus it’s hot. [Laughter] There things happen… There was a shift in the response of the Black communities to police shootings that were perpetual. It’s kind of like you see now, but it was not a pattern. When you see it now, this is something you’ve heard about for generations. This was not something people had heard about for generations.

D:  And I’m glad you mentioned the assassination of Dr. King. You mentioned very strongly of John Huggins and Alprentice Carter as—It’s kind of in relationship to the same death of Dr. King.

	C:	No, there’s no relationship. They were murdered on the UCLA campus. They were students. They were members of the Black Panther Party…What year was it…King was killed in [19]68.

	D:	Yes.



	C:	Huggins and Carter were January [19]69. So King was already—



	D:	But you looked at their death as worthy, as something to talk about. You mentioned—

	C:	Let’s put it this way. In the Black Panther Party, the strongest organization was in Los Angeles. The strongest leaders were in Los Angeles and that was John Huggins and Bunchy Carter. In northern California, Huey Newton was in jail. So he’s a leader but he’s not functional. He’s facing the death penalty. Bobby Seale





was in jail because of the arrest in Sacramento and Eldridge Cleaver who’s very articulate is an ex-­convict who’s on parole, who’s not supposed to be associating with the people who have weapons.

	D:	His parole was in the confines of San Francisco? He couldn’t leave San Francisco?

	C:	After a while.



	D:	After a while.



	C:	That’s ‘cus he went to Nashville and a riot broke out in Nashville. It didn’t have anything to do with him being there, but it had to do with the times. But his parole officer didn’t want him to travel any more after that. He had to get permission. He was very…eloquent, very eloquent speaker which is rare. You don’t find a whole lot of people who are eloquent speakers. He spent a long time in prison. He practiced speeches. We had—it wasn’t his plan. His plan was to be cool and finally get off parole and be able to do things. But what happened was is that Huey ended up in the gas chamber at the same time Bobby Seale was in Santa Rita Prison doing time for the visit to Sacramento. Eldridge was the only adult that could make a coherent statement on his behalf at that time. He said, “Keeping Huey out of the gas chamber is more important than keeping myself out of prison.”

	D:	I want to move towards your visit at UCLA in 1971. I want to talk about that. We talked about it a little bit earlier and as I listen to it, it was kind of startling what you said—





	C:	Well, you have to put it in the context. First of all, this is in 1971. I came of Algeria which is where Eldridge had gone and received some form of asylum and we had set up something called the international section of the Black Panther Party. By the time I get back to California in 1971, the Black Panther Party has been infiltrated and divided and there’re factions. There’s a case being tried which was the charges against the Los Angeles Black Panthers were brought when it was all one organization. By now, certain people had been expelled and certain people have changed the politics, so it’s a divided organization. And that’s when the trial is taking place. That’s when I come back in [19]71. The charges for the trial come from [19]69 but the trial takes place a few years later, so it’s a very odd circumstance.

	D:	I see. Just for clarification, charges of what in [19]69?



	C:	Let’s see. What were the charges for [19]69. I’m trying to think if these charges that stem from the shooting incident—yes. There was an attack on the headquarters of the Black Panther Party and other cities, they had killed Panthers in their—well they killed Fred Hampton in his house, not in a Panther office. There had been attacks—police attacked offices, they would come and shoot Panthers, they’d arrest Panthers. What happened in Los Angeles was they had an office on Central Avenue that one of the leaders in the party said you need to secure this office in case the police decide to attack it. They had sandbagged it and done things to the window. They were in the office when there actually was a police attack. But the police could never—I don’t know what they intended to do. Probably break in and arrest everybody, but they were never able





to get in the building because the Panthers that were inside, maybe eight or nine or even more than that, said that when the LAPD—they sent a special weapons and tactics squad. The SWAT team, not just regular police. SWAT police. They came, cleared the streets and told everyone to get out of the way, put up lights, and there gonna take this building. They start shooting, but the building is fortified. They got sandbags all over it. The windows are barricaded, so their bullets don’t get in the building and the Panthers who are inside can see reflections from the windows from the buildings across the street. They can see exactly what the police are doing. They are inside but they can’t get them and they can see outside. Nobody hits anybody. They shoot back and forth but nobody gets hurt. This goes on for about three hours. It starts like five o’clock in the morning, six o’clock;; it goes on until the Panthers inside are down to the last few bullet. They said, ok, well, what are we going to do? We don’t have enough weapons. We don’t have enough ammunition to keep shooting, so what are we going to do? Well, I’m not turning myself in. I’m not turning myself in, I’m not gonna go—One of the sisters named Peaches, Peaches Morshead said I’ll surrender. She’s very tall, about five eight brown skin, [inaudible 78:34] Then she gotta cloth of some sort, a towel, and tied it to a stick and walked out. They didn’t shoot Peaches and she kept walking and she kept walking, and she surrendered. After they said well, they didn’t kill Peaches, the guys decided they would surrender. There was like thirteen people in that office. So it was as of December eighth I was considered a great victory because December fourth the police had





raided Fred Hampton’s apartment and murdered him in his sleep. That was a horrible, horrible horrible tragedy. But no one was killed in LA.

	D:	So [19]71, so in context— C:	So that was in—

	D:	[19]69?



	C:	Was it [19]69? Yes, it was [19]69. This is two years later that I come.



	D:	When you’re there, you didn’t know it was on YouTube, but it is now. You’re speaking with such emotion, in my opinion, and you can correct me if I’m wrong, but you’re concerned about it being infiltrated. The Black Panther—

	C:	It was obviously infiltrated. If you go to court, you see half of the Panthers sitting in jail uniforms. The ones who have been expelled from the Black Panther Party, they’re all wearing the blue uniform and the ones who are in the active Black Panther Party are wearing street clothes and sitting out on bail. Yeah, there is a problem. It’s infiltration. Yes, it’s very obvious.

D:  Do feel that today that organizations that are radical whether it’s Black Lives Matter, I’m not trying to jump too far ahead. But just in general, do you get a sense—

C:  Wait a minute. Let’s go back to Marcus Garvey D:  Yes, Marcus Garvey. Okay.

C:  Marcus Garvey was under the—scrutiny of the predecessor of the FBI. They didn’t have an FBI.

D:   J. Edgar Hoover? Or before-­-­





	C:	They didn’t have J. Edgar Hoover. They had somebody else. He was spied on.



Any Black activist in America gets spied on like grandfather of Martin Luther King. And then the father of Martin Luther King. And then Martin Luther King. Because this is activism and awareness, it is considered undesirable by the White power structure. People who demonstrate this are watched and in most cases they’re trying to drive them out of the country or arrest them. When Huey was arrested after the shootout in Oakland—this is 1967 I believe—King was murdered in [19]68, so [19]67 I think was the shootout—

	D:	October the Black Panther Party is founded. In October [19]67, at the one year celebration, Huey Newton is in a shootout, and King is killed on April fourth [19]68.

	C:	So King hasn’t been killed yet, but Huey’s been arrested. We were going to defend him. He’s going to go to trial. We were going around in flatbed trucks, sound trucks, saying. ‘Come down to the courthouse. See about Huey.’ Play loud music to attract attention. Whatever. And this one lady hollered out when we are going around, “He’s going to the gas chamber!” like of course. If you get arrested for shooting a policeman and one of them is dead, you going to the gas chamber. This is well known. We said, “Not if you come down to see about Huey.” This is the whole idea to challenge the case and make the trial something very activist oriented which is not what most people do when their charged with killing police. That’s what the Panthers wanted. That’s what Huey wanted to do.

	D:	Moving out of that era in a sense, that didn’t stop your activism. You obviously remain active in so many different things, I’m just curious as to what it is that you





think has been most important since your activism, since the Black Panther Party involvement.

	C:	No one can get over the Black Panther Party, so that must have been the most important thing. [Laughter] They just had the fiftieth anniversary celebration of the Black Panther Party at the Oakland Museum and all over the city of Oakland and it’s huge. I mean just all kinds of exhibits and things that Laney College, things in the museum, things at the Berkeley campus, sort of like the community of Oakland took on the legacy of fifty years of the Black Panther Party. It was different factions of it. Bobby Seale had a birthday party. The Black Panther Party was started on his birthday. He turned eighty, so he had a big party. They said it was a roast, but actually it was a banquet. It was advertised as a roast, but no one made fun of him. They all talked about him like he was a great guy. [Laughter] Anyway, that’s not what you might expect given what the Black Panther Party was about and what Bobby Seale was about that he’d be up here celebrating his eightieth birthday at a big restaurant in Oakland. Huey, of course, is buried, gone on. Most of the other leaders, not too many of them are around.

	D:	What is your interest since then though because— C:	Since when?

	D:	Since your involvement with Black Panther Party.



	C:	It never ends. I just left Oakland for the fiftieth anniversary celebration of the Black Panther Party last week. It doesn’t end! It doesn’t end. That’s what I’m trying to say. People won’t let this go. It’s fifty years later, and you’re asking me about the Black Panther Party.





	D:	Yes.



	C:	You weren’t even born when it started. No, it doesn’t end. That’s what I’m saying because I think the conditions that gave rise to the Black Panther Party don’t end.

	D:	Let’s talk about those conditions.



	C:	It’s police murder and brutality. It doesn’t end. It’s illegal but it doesn’t end. The target seem to be on Black men. It seems to be their favorite target of police brutality. Sometimes it’s Black women. I was thinking about Sandra Bland. How in the world did this woman end up dead? Because she encountered a White, racist, Texas policeman who ended up taking her to jail in the middle of the night. That’s how she ended up dead. Now, c’mon. This goes back to—the same kind of things are happening in the 1930s and the 1940s and the 1950s. What is this? 2015 when it happened?

	D:	Yeah.



	C:	So it’s that dynamic, that dynamic of police violence, police hatred, racism, and all the economic ills that are connected to that. That’s why it keeps going on.

	D:	I saw you participating in the Trayvon Martin rally here. C:	It was in New Haven actually.

	D:	It was in New Haven actually. We’re not too far from there. The shootings that have been happening since Trayvon Martin—there was Eric Garner, or Sandra Bland, or the kid, Tamir Rice. I just wonder if you see any type of solutions that could come about at this point if-­-­





	C:	Community organizing. It’s obvious. People who’re organized and who have defense units. These do not happen. These shootings happen in certain kinds of places and certain kinds of times. There are usually people who get isolated and it’s obvious that there’s a mentally among the law enforcement that it’s okay for them to kill Black people because that seems to be what they do. Repeatedly. It’s not like every now and then. Particularly Tamir Rice. That’s insane. This is a kid, a twelve year old. There was an article in the New York Times Op-­Ed piece by some law students and they said just imagine this. A White twelve year old in a park and their neighborhood. Could that kid with a toy gun have been murdered by policemen? Is that conceivable? They said no, it’s not conceivable. What makes it conceivable is that it’s a kid who’s Black in a Black neighborhood with a toy gun. It was pretty obvious the gun was a toy. Anyway, the man, the policeman who shot him didn’t even—he saw the little boy and killed him. It’s a very short time between the time you saw him and the time he killed him. What does that tell you? This is something about the police mentality, something about the police training, something about the recognition that they are not going to get in trouble for killing a Black kid.

	D:	Wow. I don’t want to take too much time. I just know there’re some questions that the audience want—no? No questions? Okay. Did you have a question Selena? Selena wanted to ask a question. She is one of our undergraduate students. She works with the Oral History Program. We’ll allow a couple questions and from there, we’ll close out if that’s fine with you.

	C:	Sure.





	U1:	Do we need to ask any of the questions? D:	No. Well…

	C:	Are these your questions? D:	We didn’t get to all of them.

	C:	Let’s see. What are these questions? D:	Those are ones—

	U1:	Sorry, I have five questions to ask with me. D:	Let’s keep it at two. Let’s do two.

	U1:	The number one question I wanted to ask was what are your thoughts on community policing but more specifically, what are the requirements to effectively do so?

	C:	That’s a very much more complicated than what is community policing.



Community policing was a proposal that the Black Panther Party in the Ten Point Platform Program. That meant policemen participated in the community, they walked around, they knew people, they had a concept of getting to know the neighborhood instead of being what we said like an outside army patrolling foreign territory. That’s kind of how they acted when the Black Panther Party started. The one town I know of that has done something with community policing is New Haven, Connecticut and what they do is a policeman actually walk the beat. I don’t know if they all live in the neighborhood, but they see the people in the neighborhood. They establish relationships with people in their precinct. That’s a way of diminishing conflict and preventing violence which is a workable method, but very few police departments have adopted it.





	U1:	In addition, I wanted to know what are your thoughts about confidential informants because—

	C:	What do you mean my thoughts about confidential informants— U1:	Do you think they can be avoided because—

	C:	No, not if you have a police organization and they need information about people who they consider threats. However, the confidential informants that the Black Panther Party had experience with were a little different. It’s not like they need this information. The police have decided to provoke situations. They send in provocateurs who will generate incidents that enable the police to come in and arrest people and kill people. One of the confidential informant’s name was George Sams and he did this in several particular places. New Haven was one, California was one. He would just create incidents like stab somebody or do something horrible, shoot somebody and then bring in the police to attack the Panthers. Then he’d move on to the next. This is a technique of…basically to eliminate the organization of the Black Panther Party, corrupt the organization of the Black Panther Party. Police informants are a standard information tool of people who are supposed to be preventing crimes. But there was nothing criminal about what the Black Panther Party was doing, so they used their informants. There was one informant who ended up on the witness stand in the third—no fifth—habeas corpus hearing of Geronimo Pratt. This particular man, his name was Julio Butler, was a confidential informant for the LAPD. He was a confidential informant for the…police, he was the confidential informant for the— something else, and for the case. He was a witness in the Geronimo Pratt case





and he was informing to the court of what was going on in the trial. He was a very very horrible person. We found this out in the last habeas petition because the judge actually put this man on the witness stand and questioned him for three days. It all came out. This is after the man he had testified had lied against has spent twenty-­five years in prison on a life sentence based on Julio’s false testimony. This is what confidential informants they work with the police and they are used to set up or to usually to get people arrested. Sometimes it’s to prevent crimes.

	U1:	I actually have one more question. I’m so sorry. D:	No, no, no you’re fine.

	C:	What’s wrong with that?



	U1:	I was actually listening to the same UCLA speech that you gave in 1971 and during the interview you mentioned Africa-­-­

	C:	You mean the speech?



	U1:	Yes the speech that you gave. I wanted to know what do you think strong presence of foreign affairs in Africa and what are your thoughts on—

	C:	Wait a minute. I mentioned Africa because I was living in Africa. I was living in Algeria. That was in 1971 which was about forty some years ago, so are you asking me what did I think what I was saying then or what I think about Africa now?

	U1:	What do you think about Africa now but more specifically, what are your thoughts on—

	C:	That’s a big question. You have to break it down.





	U1:	Sure. [Laughter] I guess the specific question that I’m trying to get at is right now there is a lot of foreign affairs in the continent where a lot of the—

	C:	Wait a minute. Wait a minute. What do you mean foreign affairs?



	U1:	Major corporations mainly like China. They are setting up a lot of businesses and their reaping all the monetary gain from the continent, form natural resources, minerals—

	C:	They’re investing. They are coming in big time and investing in Africa in ways that no one else has because they’re moving their whole operation. They’ll move their families. They’ll move their houses. They’ll move their schools. I’m not going to say they are colonizing it, but they’re coming to settle. Not just to have a mind. You might notice that China is heavily overpopulated. [Laughter]

	U1:	Very polluted as well.



	C:	Where they have industry it’s very polluted. I’m not familiar with what exactly other than what I read in the papers. But the Chinese have a huge presence in East Africa. I don’t know about West Africa or North Africa. During the European colonial period, the idea was to own African property and to make it part of England or part of France or part of Germany or whatever country. That’s not at all what the Chinese are doing. Chinese are doing straight business transactions. They aren’t trying to own Africa. They aren’t trying to rule Africa. They’re expanding their own business activities or factory activities into a place that’s not that populated ‘cus China is overpopulated. It’s very different, very very different. Now, I don’t know what the outcome of it is. The English set up colonies but they stayed in England. The Chinese set up businesses and moved to Africa. It’s





different. No one has seen this before. First of all, China is so huge and it’s also far away. My daughter was living for a while in a town called Arusha which is in northern Tanzania and she left there and went to a small town as a teacher. You know how they recruit teachers in America to teach English. She was teaching at a primary school teaching English. She said the town where she was teaching, Wooshi looked so much like Arusha. The same kind of buildings, the same kind of trees. What that made me realize is that when people leave China and come to East Africa, I don’t know about the other parts of it. It’s not that different. They come and enable themselves to have business opportunities that weren’t there. It doesn’t look that they’re planning to go back. [Laughter] That’s what I’m saying.

This is something different that’s happening in the Chinese engagement with Africa. That had happened with the European colonialists.

U1:  I just wanted to gain your feedback in that you were so involved in the Black Panther Party for Self Defense. Moving forward and thinking more of what’s happening today and in the future. I just wanted to get your thoughts.

C:  In what capacity? There’s a lot happening in the future. What are you talking about specifically? What are you asking about?

	U1:	Just moving forward as a community, and what there is even a possibility for a reorganization of the Black Panther Party to even exist.

	C:	Well the Black Panther Party is very intimately tied to the Vietnam War. If you look at the timeframe, when did the United States announce it was involved in the Vietnam War which is the Tonkin Gulf Resolution? I think it’s about [19]64. The Black Panther Party came into existence in [19]66 with two students creating





it and they were Huey—not Huey. Huey was a law student but Bobby Seale was already a veteran. Neither of them had any particular connection to Vietnam, but the Vietnam War was like the biggest thing going on and the Black Panther Party rose from two students to offices in Oakland and then eventually offices in San Francisco, eventually offices all up and down California. Then they moved east eventually New York, Chicago. It became a national organization, but it started out in California and California was the same place that the Vietnam War was being propagated. This is where the main forts are. This is where the ships leave, the planes leave to take the soldiers to Vietnam. Vietnam was a huge, huge issue, both being the anti-­war and the fact that the government is propagating the war in California at the very same time that the Black Panther Party is getting started. So you can’t really extract them. They’re two parts of the same phenomenon is happening in the United States and if you look at the duration, the Black Panther Party is started in [19]66 and by about [19]76 it’s pretty much gone. Same time with the war, so I think they’re related. Part of it is this notion of fighting. High school kids were being drafted to go fight in Vietnam. High school going into the Black Panther Party. It’s a similar population of young men that are—In fact, one of our key leaders in the Black Panther Party was in a man named Geronimo Pratt who had two tours of duty in Vietnam and came to Los Angeles on a GI bill to attend college at UCLA. The time he arrived at UCLA was the same time that—there’s something called the High Potential Program in which UCLA had decided to recruit Black students to attend UCLA that hadn’t been there before. Not Black kids out of fancy high schools, just regular Black





kids. It’s called the High Potential Program. When Geronimo comes from Vietnam to UCLA, there are all these Black Panthers in the High Potential Program at UCLA and they meet. You can’t extract the Black Panther Party from the Vietnam War.

	D:	Okay. Alright. If there are no other questions, do you have any closing thoughts that you—

	C:	I don’t have any closing thoughts. This is your interview. [Laughter]. I don’t know where you want to go with it.

	D:	No, no, no. We’re done. You’ve answered all my questions so far and I know you have a presentation tomorrow that the students are excited and ready to hear.

	C:	What time is it? Where is it?



	D:	It’s gonna be at the Reitz Ballroom right around the corner. [End of Interview]





Transcribed by: Grace Chun, May 10, 2017 Audit-­edited by: Sandra Romero May 9, 2019

Final Edited by: Sandra Romero, October 23, 2020