AAHP 176; Jah; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 176 Nkwanda Jah

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Ryan Morini on May 31, 2011 2 hours, 9 minutes | 51 pages



Abstract: Nkwanda Jah grew up in Grandin, Florida, and she talks about her family relationships there and the various things she and other children did to amuse themselves in that rural area. She also recalls watching the film Tarzan at her grandmother’s house on the television, not realizing until adulthood that the ‘exotic’ locale it was filmed in was Ocala, Florida, near to where she was living; her analysis connects the movie to Jim Crow segregation and to persisting racist ideologies and aesthetics. She notes that her high school in Palatka, Central Academy High School, was the first accredited Black high school in the state of Florida. However, she was in ninth grade when integration was enforced, and so she ended up going to school in Melrose and found the experience to be miserable. Ms. Jah first saw Gainesville in the 1960s, and describes some of the Black-owned businesses and other aspects of the community at that time. She also describes starting the Fifth Avenue Festival, and describes her Gainesville-based community activism in extensive detail.





[Keywords: African American History; Putnam County, Florida; Alachua County, Florida; Central Academy High School; Integration]





































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 176

Interviewee: NKwanda Jah Interviewer: Ryan Morini Date: May 31, 2011



[Interviewer’s note: we had been conducting the interview for about ten minutes when the recorder malfunctioned due to a loose part and poor positioning on my part; these are the “technical difficulties” referred to below.]

	M:	After some technical difficulties, once again this is Ryan Morini talking to NKwanda Jah, May 31, 2011. And we’re talking about, let’s see, your birth and upbringing in—

	J:	Grandin. It’s about thirty miles east of here. It’s a rural community. And it’s—my family were farmers, we were talking about how they had land, property, and a lot of it had to be sold because my grandfather had a stroke and the medical expenses ate up quite a bit of money from the land that was sold. There were three houses in the properties, my grandmother and my aunt, my mom. Later my mom moved to Gainesville and another aunt moved in to her house, so it was still family there. And I was saying that I was delivered by my aunt who was a midwife, an experienced midwife, that was living over in Johnson, which is also in Putnam County.

	M:	What was her name?



	J:	You know what since you ask me I can’t remember now, I’m sorry.



	M:	That’s okay, just wondering. It’s just always nice to connect the different people.



	J:	Yeah yeah. And I’ll have to get her name for you because that—she delivered like I was saying, a lot of babies before me, and quite a few after me, so I’ll find out if my mother knows.





	M:	Okay, okay. That’s good then. But that’s a different aunt than the ones who were living with you on the—

	J:	Exactly, yes yes.



	M:	How big was the family overall, I mean?



	J:	We actually had a relatively small family. In Grandin, we—it was only about four families. You had my family, which like I said was relatively small there, it was my grandmother and it was maybe three other people in the house with her, my mom’s house there was three other people with her, and then there was two people in my grandfather’s house. So it was pretty small, as opposed to the family next to us which definitely wasn’t next door– like a half a mile down the road– our neighbors they had quite a few, I mean it was maybe ten kids at least where it was only two or three kids in our house ever. And out of the three houses you’d probably get two, three kids at a time. Or the people who was on the other side that was like a mile and a half away, they had like four kids, so six people in that house so we were pretty small.

	M:	So did you go to the neighbors’ to play?



	J:	Oh yeah, oh yeah. We played ball at the Davis’s, they were like the happening kids. You know that’s where everybody wanted to go and play, ‘cause they had kids that were all the way from elementary school all the way through high school age to early adult, you know, I mean it was a big family there and I think they had maybe twelve, fourteen kids in that one house, so you know. And then they had a big area that you could play ball in, a ball field area, you know, and that was always cool. My family weren’t the kind that you could go visiting every day. They





didn’t think that was cool to be showing up to somebody’s house every day or to be there early in the morning when they wake up or you know, don’t let sundown catch you ‘cause that’s trouble. People in the city had lights, we’re sundown, or they would be meeting you halfway and it was not pretty. So yeah we visited. Our family that was like a mile and a half away, they lived—I mean we lived it was a main road, it was a dirt road but it was a main road that there was traffic, quite a bit of traffic either walking or driving, but then we had these neighbors who lived way down the road that, you know, you never had a car to just drive by their house. There would be no reason to do that and it was a lot of fun visiting with them, because them—and everything was outside you know, we found stuff to do outside, I mean you weren’t allowed to play in people’s houses. And there were no video games. You know we had television but that was set aside—in fact when I was young they gave you an hour each day that you could watch TV, and they didn’t care morning, noon, or night you got your one hour and that was it.

There was no discussion, no whining, no can I have thirty many minutes more? No, you got that hour, and I usually did Andy Griffith and I Love Lucy. So that was my hour that’s what—oh and there was two of us and there was no such thing as you watch this hour, you watch [Laughter] no no no. Together decide, I don’t care. But it was lots to do outside. Throwing a rope across a tree and making a tire be a swing, you know, ‘cause there was lots of trees. Or hopscotch or Mother May I, you know there was just—now, I think that we played racquetball but I don’t know if that’s what you really call it because I’ve never really seen anybody play something like that, I don’t know what racquetball is





really but from what I heard. We threw a ball up again a wall and you know just like caught it and throw it back or batted it back you know, is that some form, is that?

M:   Sounds pretty close to what I understand racquetball to be, yeah.



	J:	Yeah we did that—I did that a lot. I used to—My family used to pick at me and talk about me because I would collect a bunch of rocks and I would like find a stick and I would just like be batting, like practice ball, you know? I would do that for hours at a time, I mean I just—it’s been a long time since I thought about that. [Laughter] I did that for a while. And then my uncle, he was five years older than me. But I liked sports and we would play setback, where I would throw the ball to him and he had to go and get it wherever I threw it. Most of the time he caught it. And then he would throw it to me and always it would go over my head. [Laughter] That was just for him to play with me, you know or basketball—he couldn’t—my mom, when I was in the third grade got me a basketball—the net, a goal—and I would just play basketball all the time and he would come and play with me sometime. You know I was just—couldn’t even hardly reach the goal and he would be standing back just getting on me now, just be getting the ball for me but just so he could spend time with me that was fine. Now when he was a teenager he got to look at football, and he was at my grandmother’s house. The aunt’s house was the one that we could only look at TV for an hour. But at my grandmother’s house she was more lenient than that, that’s why I got to look at Tarzan.

	M:	Okay.





	J:	At my grandmother’s house on Sundays we would all stretch out and look at Tarzan. But my uncle was allowed to look at the football games, so I used to look at the earlier football games and I knew all the teams from way back, it’s like now, football, the teams, they’ve moved, and they’ve changed their names you know, like Baltimore. The Colts are no longer at Baltimore. [Laughter]

	M:	Oh yeah.



		J:		Are the broncos in Denver? M:	They’re still in Denver.

	J:	Okay, alright. [Laughter] And, the Cowboys, they’re still in Texas? M:	They are.

	J:	Okay, all right, okay. [Laughter] See I go way back, I go way back with those guys, you do looking at, ‘cause my uncle would let me look at it with him. But I was saying that on Sundays we went to church, oh my God, we went to church two Sundays, the second and the fourth Sunday. Those were the Methodist Sundays to have church, and then the Baptists had it on first and third. So first and third Sunday most of the time we got to stay home and on Sundays we watched Tarzan and you know I was just, oh. Everybody just sat in front of the set—black and white—and watched Tarzan, Jane, Boy, and Cheetah. And these African people who were running around naked—well, Tarzan was pretty much naked too, he only had on the little loin thing and really Jane didn’t have that much on either, but for some reason they made the Black people what they had on—the Africans—looked more naked, I don’t know, I don’t know what that’s about I’ll have to talk to my friend about that. [Laughter]





	M:	Did you notice that at the time, or is that more of a recollection?



	J:	That’s more of a recollection now. I did not notice that—and really I’d have to go back to look and see for sure—but Tarzan didn’t have very much on, I remember he didn’t have very much on but and the Africans seemed to speaking in a language that was you know was a like Whitey can’t speak English or you know they’re lesser than Tarzan and those ‘cause Tarzan now can speak English and they can’t you know what’s up with that. They were never portrayed in a positive light. And I think from that I framed very negative view of Africa and Africans.

That coupled with self-hatred kinda thing that was ingrained about skin color. You know I come from a belief that the darker you are the lesser you are. The brighter complexion you are the better you are. And unfortunately that has stuck around. I was just talking to someone this weekend one of my younger friends is like twenty-three years old and he’s always making jokes about it, you know. What area would he and I sit in if we had. [Laughter] He’s making jokes about it, but he is calling attention to what he’s seeing and what he’s feeling and how he’s being treated, you know. We talk about it. That negativity comes all the way from way back when it was begin to be taught, you know. There’s a picture out front in the lobby there—it’s called The Nubian Princess. I’m especially fond of that because that’s a darker-skinned woman who is a princess. And very rarely is dark skin and princess or any royal name is attributed to Black women other than within certain African cultures. They understand, you know. But outside of that it’s not. I guess we enjoyed that, we thought, that was Africa. And then I learned later on in my adult life it was actually filmed in Ocala. And those were not Africans. And





they were not speaking any of the thousands of African languages and that was a learning experience for me and sort of a release too, you know, to find that out, it confirmed what I would later know as truth, you know. The whole skin color thing, the language thing, you know, we’re taught in this country that English is it. And we don’t even—we’re not taught any other language other than English. And people in other countries speak four, five, six, seven languages. I mean in Africa the average number of languages that you’re gonna know is seven. I mean we can’t even speak Spanish. And how long have Spanish people been in this country? The Spanish people are no longer speaking Spanish, that’s how [Laughter]—that’s how messed up. And then we’re saying, “That’s alright, that’s a good thing.” No, that’s not a good thing. [Laughter] It’s not a good thing. I tell people all the time they’re lucky as African Americans. We don’t know where, what area we come from. Swahili is widely used—Kiswahili is widely used throughout Africa, not everywhere but in many many places it’s used and that’s a language that we could learn and that could be a second language but, otherwise, the majority of us only have one language. I hope that—I’m always so happy to hear when the Native Americans are speaking and passing on their language to their children. You know, I think that’s priceless.

	M:	And it’s getting increasingly rare. J:	I know, I know.

	M:	It’s tough to keep kids interested. I guess there’s a reason beyond just oppression that slaves weren’t able to pass on African languages.





	J:	Yeah it was a part of the oppression and it hasn’t changed any. But, I was just talking to a friend of mine about how it’s so strange that African American men and family is looked on with such disdain for the man not being a part of the family whereas they went as the same society—maybe not that same group—but the same society would tear families apart, they would never ever think during slavery time that a man should be with his family. That just—and you did that for decades and decades and decades and then you go and turn around and be mad because the man is not there? There’s something wrong with that kind of thinking. To walk away and say that you don’t even understand how it got like that. “Oh, you don’t remember?” It’s not that you don’t know. [Laughter] You don’t remember how it got like that and we really need to—the story has turned into a fairy tale.

	M:	Tarzan.



	J:	Fairy tale, and I mean just there are a lot of people who’re just not going for it. It’s just not gonna go for it, they’re gonna be looking for well if one plus one and you add two more to that then that’s four. Sooner or later, I mean, you would think, but I think that we are actually going backwards. Instead of forward. And it’s due a great deal to the fairy tales that are going down. I used to wonder how the hell did they get from breaking out of slavery to Jim Crow? But after living the last twenty years I understand. I mean, didn’t we just watch a governor who signed into law some of the most horrible legislation you’ve ever heard of?

	M:	Would you like to elaborate?





	J:	Where do I start? I think, well because I just hate it so much. The one where the welfare mothers are gonna have to take urine tests to prove that they’re not indulging in drugs, using the tax dollars to indulge in drugs. I mean there’s a couple parts of that—first of all I don’t like urine tests, to me that’s an invasion of the body. I mean that’s the last thing—you wanna take something from my body and use it against me? Urine? That’s no. I mean, if I’m operating a train or a space shuttle or you know something, I mean, how much money does the government give you that, how much drugs you gonna get to do off of that? I mean do you not know the cost of drugs? And then, if they find that they been doing drugs, what they gonna do? Take the money? So what the children gonna do then? What you gonna do with the children? None of it makes any sense.

Education. Where do you start with that? That in and of itself. And they had the nerve enough to take even a minute of thought to come up with something about baggy pants. How much did it cost for them to even go through that?

	M:	I don’t even wanna know.



	J:	As it is union is about nothing in the state of Florida, it really has no teeth. It really doesn’t. And they want to bus up and take what’s there. C’mon now. You want to take money from the public schools and give it to the private schools? You know that’s gonna make the education worse than it is right now. You know that.

	M:	Yeah, well, and the standardized testing, and the way that—yeah.



J:   And see I don’t really have a big problem with the standardized tests as long as the teachers are teaching the children the information that they need in order to pass the test. The problem is not the test, the problem is teaching the kids. And





I’m not saying who’s to—I think it is the responsibility of everybody in the community, it’s not just the teacher or just the parent, but it’s the community. And if there’s a problem with that child not being able to pass those tests, then that need to be dealt with before it’s time for the child to graduate or whatever. We know we gonna dealt with that. No matter what that is. If you can teach an animal to do certain things, you can teach a child. I think that a big problem is these drugs and this ADD thing. See I don’t think that that’s always real. Because if a child can sit in front of a video game for three, four, five hours at a time, what’s up with that? Is the computer somehow taken over the brain, whereas only a drug could do if they’re not sitting in front of a screen?

	M:	Pretty far-fetched theory. Well, so, what was the educational community like when you were in Grandin when you were on a farm?

	J:	Well first, we didn’t have a school in Grandin, we had to go to Palatka to go to school. My parents went to Putnam Hall which was about three or four miles from Grandin, but then by the time I was going to school we were going to Palatka School. And that was about twenty, twenty-one miles away. So we had to catch the bus there. The schools—all the time I was going to Palatka, which was from pre-K through Junior High—it was a very good experience. I love school, I had no problem with school. I was born with glaucoma so it was steadily eating my sight away so by the time I got to school, six years old, seven years old, I had visual problems. And you know it turned out to be more than just glaucoma, I had dislocated lenses, so that when I held my head down my lens would fall right and I could see almost 20/20, but then if I held my head up the lens would fall back





down and I couldn’t see. That used to freak doctors out real bad they couldn’t figure out before they knew it was dislocated they was like, “Good Lord, what’s going on here?”. [Laughter] So other than not being able to see in school, which brought about some problems especially after I got in like the third, fourth grade. I started having to pay people either money or lunch to write stuff off the board for me so that I could see it because I couldn’t see to the board and I didn’t wanna admit to the teachers or anybody that I couldn’t see, I didn’t want to be less than anybody else you know. So I would sit there, act like I was writing stuff off the board, but I wasn’t because I couldn’t even see the board. But I’d get it later from another person who was from a large family and did not have lunch. So that actually worked out really good, I mean I didn’t have the best lunches my grandmother never did go for no nice lunches, peanut butter jelly and some bologna that was it [Laughter]. She was glad to share in that, you know, and all. That was when I had all Black teachers. We may have had one or two kids in each classroom that was read a little slower or was slow on math, and if you would look at that closely those were kids who were not coming to school all the time. The kids who lived right down from me that I said we liked to go to their house ‘cause they had a lot of kids and there was activities to do all the time. The boys—the family was in the pulp wood business—so the boys would be out working with their father a lot and a couple of them they weren’t—they were kinda slow reading. Most of the time you could trace it to something like that. We didn’t have—you know like nowadays they’ve got a whole school with kids who are slow, no no, we had one or two kids, everybody was teachable. I had great





grades. I mean if I dropped below a B my mom then would try to calm me down for me, you know, it’s not that bad [Laughter]. But then in the ninth grade was when integration happened, and we had to go to Melrose to school and that was not a nice experience at all. There were no Black teachers there. None. We went from all Black to no Black. I went to Central Academy High in Palatka, and there was a lot of school pride in that school. I learned later, much much later, recently that it was the first certified African American school in the state of Florida. The second one was A. Quinn Jones, but the first one was Central Academy High, and that’s the school that I came from. I mean it was, my gosh, we just loved, you know it was the home of the bulldogs and it was—we went to parades. Even though we lived twenty miles away we were able to go to parades you know because it was down the street from where Auntie Lalonde lived. It hurt to leave the school in the first place and then to go to a school that was so unfamiliar—it was horrible. And I got into trouble for the first time. My sister used to—she wanted to fight, she got into trouble all the time. Her whole school life she was getting into something. But me, I never got in to anything and I was in this classroom, this world, and she would—Black kids sat on one side, White kids sat on the other side—and she would stand over where the White kids were all the time. And I just finally got fed up with it one day, and I just closed my book and put my head on the desk. And she saw it and she like, came over to me and started yelling at me. And I told her—she told me you know to sit up and open my book back up, and I told her I’d do it when she started teaching to the whole class, and she just stormed out of the room and went to the office and got the





principal and I was put out of class, I had to sit at the outside of the classroom. My mom was called, my mom was like, “Her? If you told me it was her sister, okay, but her?”. [Laughter] He had to be kidding, but it was just—it was horrible, it was just so horrible. We were there for a year before they built Interlochen High School, and Interlochen was kind of a—it was a new school, it wasn’t a Black school, it wasn’t a White school. Everybody came to that school at the same time, so it was a lot better there.

	M:	What year was that? J:	[19]66, [19]67.

	M:	And did they have Black teachers at Interlochen? J:	Yes.

	M:	Okay so they did actually hire—



	J:	Yeah a P.E. teacher, a history teacher. I mean it wasn’t like fifty/fifty teachers now.

	M:	Yeah I wasn’t expecting quite that.



	J:	You know I was told recently that, what’s the school?— M:	Lincoln?

	J:	No, right over by Westwood, what’s the Elementary school there? Cross from the Westside Park?

	M:	It’s not Evergreen.



	J:	I can’t remember it, but they don’t have any Black teachers now. M:	Really?

	J:	2011.





	M:	I mean they didn’t integrate here until [19]70s, so it’s uh— J:	Didn’t take ‘em long to switch back. [Laughter]

	M:	[Laughter].



	J:	Didn’t take ‘em long. [Laughter] And you know that’s what I said, you know so what were they doing during those days? What were we doing? What are we doing now that we can have a school, in 2011, that don’t have Black teachers? That don’t make no sense. Those people were probably doing the same thing we sitting up here doing now, just watching it happen.

	M:	Yeah. Well so the—Central Academy, did they just close it down then, or that was the end of it?

	J:	You know what they did, and I didn’t realize it until many years later. They closed the Black schools down that year. And they reopened those schools as middle schools. Like here in Gainesville Lincoln High was closed down and opened back up as Lincoln Middle School which it is now. And if you’ll just go throughout you’ll see that it was that trend.

	M:	Same thing there then. Do they still do alumni events? I know—



	J:	I’m sure that they do but because I’m not from—I’m not down there. I know that they have individual class reunions because my mom was a graduate of Central Academy and she—they still have them and she’s like seventy-five, seventy-six. And they just recently—it’s not that many of them left, but, the ones that are there, there. And I know there’s one for Lincoln every year isn’t there?

	M:	Yes.



	J:	They don’t miss a beat. It’s still got that spirit, you know.





	M:	That struck me of Mebane too. On—not Black Friday—but I guess that Saturday, the Saturday after Thanksgiving, they always have a reunion. Where all the classes come out and they have their own tents and things, they have a little parade through Alachua and they even include like class of [19]72 or something, where they graduated at the integrated high school, but they had gone. Was there anything comparable to that in terms of going to Interlochen and having kind of a sense of still being part of the class of Central Academy or was it just kind of a sense of change out of?—

	J:	Well by that time I was going through some personal stuff that—where I’m a high school dropout so I don’t—I wasn’t a class of [Laughter], I don’t have that connection. Yeah, now my sister was telling me that they’re having a reunion next weekend in fact and I think it’s like the class of, like you said, just one big one that they’re having everybody or a certain period of time, it’s not just the class of [19]78 or [19]90 or whatever, I don’t think. Interlochen didn’t really take on that flavor I don’t think for those that had gone to Central Academy before. I’m sure those that came along behind us, five, ten years later, developed that kind of pride for Interlochen now, as a school. But I never developed that closer ties at Interlochen myself. I think I remember trying to participate in student government or something.

	M:	Well so, I mean without trying to pry, just, your reasons for leaving school? Were they related to the experience of going to Interlochen? Or was this sort of other issues?

	J:	No no, teen mom. Yeah. That mostly, yeah.





	M:	Oh, okay.



	J:	I just dropped out of school. And that’s what I was saying. I was married, divorced, went through all of that and my ex-husband in Marines so we lived—I lived up in North Carolina for a little while, Jacksonville, County Volusia area.

	M:	And this was around the time of Vietnam, I guess. J:	This was early [19]70s.

	M:	Did he actually get sent overseas or he was just stationed?



	J:	No. There was no war time. The most they did, all of them did a six-month cruise to the Mediterranean Sea somewhere, but it wasn’t a war time at that time, so.

Then after he got out, we moved to Gainesville and then we divorced and went our separate ways but, when we—we’ll just leave it like that. [Laughter] Well in the meantime I had done some partying in Gainesville and that’s how I knew Gainesville. Actually, during the early [19]60s my mother remarried and moved to Gainesville. She moved really right down the street here off of Fifth Avenue, on Seventh. And that’s when I first came to Gainesville and was able to see the old Gainesville and the businesses that was on Fifth Avenue, when they talk about being able to get your picture taken, I remember the photographer’s studio on the Avenue, I remember the beauty shops, I remember the rooming houses, I remember the restaurants and a couple of them were actually out of the rooming house. I guess you’d call it a bed and breakfast. [Laughter] They had many bed and breakfasts through this community. You know the cab stand was still—which they’re still there. But the clubs on the Avenue, it was just a bustling community and was about probably ten, eleven years old then so I got a chance to





Gainesville as a child, it was very intimidating to me. The sirens that would be—I just couldn’t get used to that. I was from the country and there’s barely a car moving, and it come in these loud noises in the middle of the night and my mom worked at the hospital and she wouldn’t get home ‘til eleven or twelve o’clock at night and it was way too nerve-wracking. I just wanted to go back where my grandparents were, you know some life. So later on though, I came to Gainesville just to party and I got to know the community again, and I guess I really had a love for it because I began to know it, and learn it’s history. And where you know a lot of people say, “That’s just a bad community and I don’t go over there, ‘cause it’ll be drugs and drug dealers on the corner, guys on the corner.” Or it was known for the partying area more than for the historical, the cultural historical perspective of it, and as I began to know that part I wanted to share with other people to say, “Hey, you need to chill out on all that negative ‘cause there’s a positive part of it.” So we did the first Fifth Avenue Arts Festival, that was in [19]79, which is thirty, we’re getting ready—we’re gonna be doing our thirty-third festival next year.

	M:	That’s a long run.



	J:	You know thirty-three years have gone by pretty fast. ‘Cause I think back, and it’s really been fast. It’s been fun. Because I went from partying to community activism. And with each year it brought new experiences and new people, and one day I might be sitting out talking to somebody about landlord tenant problems, and next day you know I be sitting out talking to somebody about work issues, you know. I worked at Tacachale for a while, and I was a labor union





steward there and so I got a chance to go on different worksites all day long listening to different problems. I tell people I never lost a case. The only case I ever lost was the last one and that’s when I quit. And that was after over five years straight representing people, you know, it was worker’s rights. I really enjoyed doing it. And that was like just at Tacachale, so I was doing it at Tacachale and in the community, where I was. And working with the labor union outside, you know. I really enjoyed working with University of Florida and the community on Apartheid in South Africa by having a boycott of Coca-Cola here. The University of Florida had investments in South Africa, they ended it. The city of Gainesville, we got them to divest. You know it was, it was great. Working on—

	M:	And that was what time?



	J:	Uh, [19]80, mid-[19]80s. When did Mandela get out? [19]88? M:	That’s as good a guess as I could—

	J:	I think he got out [19]87, [19]88, so this was like a year, two years before he got out. We were working on Free Mandela, Boycott South Africa, I mean we had a Black Panther, Bobby Seale, one of the original founders of the Black Panther movement came here. We had forty days, forty nights at Tigert Hall where we just camped out and he came to town and he spoke from Tigert Hall and [Laughter] it was outstanding. One of the people helped to start the Fifth Avenue Art Festival was the first Black Vice President of Student Government at the University of Florida. So the resources that she had available to her at the University of Florida was fully available to us as a community. [Laughter] I got a





chance to travel with her all over the country. She was quite a conscious person, I mean if you closed your eyes you’d think you’d be talking to Angela Davis, you know, she was in law school at UF. She was outstanding.

	M:	What was her name?



	J:	Her name was Deborah David. M:	Deborah David.

	J:	Yeah. There’s conspiracy theories around what happened to her. All the way to her house just happened to catch fire one day.

	M:	Mm.



	J:	Yeah, yeah.



	M:	And that’s in the late [19]70s, too?



	J:	Yeah this is right after members of the Communist Workers Party visited. They were here for about a month. They lived in the house for about a month. I lived in the house too. But I’d just moved out like a week before this happened and I was going back over there to pick up some stuff that I left you know and I was just like walking down the street just singing and walking and I see smoke [Laughter] the closer I got, the more smoke I saw. And Angela’s house it was on fire. They don’t know how. She had to move. Everybody had to move then. But you know, it was something new, it’s been something new, something good, I got a chance to, like I said, I went to Senegal, and I went to Gorée Island, which is a slave house that is in West Africa, and it was quite an experience. I knew that I was gonna be going to this place, but I had no idea that it would impact me the way that it did.

This might be my child.





	M:	Here I can stop. [Break in recording]. Yeah we’re going.



	J:	I knew I was going there, but I wasn’t really prepared. The tour, they started, saying, “This is the room where they kept me,” and I started thinking, “Wow.” And when they went to the women to the area, they said, “This is where they kept women,” and then they went to another area and there was a sign over the door and it was written in French so we couldn’t read it, but the tour guide read it and he said, “This is where they kept the children, and the sign was here to remind the people who were taking the children out that the children had to be forty pounds.” And that’s when it hit me, that’s when I started feeling like the spirits of those children were still in that room and I began to imagine how a child—I mean if you got to be forty pounds, no I’m sorry sixty pounds. What’s that, like, ten, nine, ten years old? Sixty pounds is pretty—that’s not that big.

	M:	No it’s not.



	J:	And if you’re nine, ten years old, you’re out playing. And somebody comes along with some guns and just take you. And they lock you in this dark room. And you crying for your mom and your daddy. They come and get you, you know they gonna come and get you, and they don’t. And they feed these children like they’re animals, it’s not like everybody got a plate and come out and sit down.

No, just one container. That they all had to eat out of. They didn’t let ‘em out. You need to go to the bathroom? No. And that you would do that to children. You know, I just started crying and I just, I couldn’t stop crying. And, then, really weird, right outside the door when the tour ends, and there’s a gift shop. So you’re like not really paying any attention I’m just walking with the rest of the





people, and this door opens, and we’re all walking in, and there’s this huge picture of Bob Marley and they’re playing the song No Woman Don’t Cry. Now I don’t know whether you know that was just a set up ‘cause probably a lot of people had come out of that place with tears in their eyes, but I don’t think they played that one song over and over and over again. It’s just, that’s the song that was playing when I walked in: No Woman Don’t Cry. And even though I couldn’t stop crying, you know I could hear him in the background, and when I left the island, I left on a ferry and I was still crying because I was thinking about how my ancestors left there, how those children left there, they didn’t leave on a ferry.

They had a thing called a last door. This is the prison that they kept them in, this is the last door, the slave ship’s pull up to that door and they lower them into there. So here’s a—We’re going again?

	M:	Oh yeah, yeah we’re good now.



	J:	So you know, I got a chance to go there with them that time, I got a chance to— Okay so the end of that story is that I promised my ancestors that I will come back here and I will work even harder in my community to teach the real story, to teach their stories, that I would not let them die in vain, that I would go and teach however I could. And I do that. I have been doing that, and going into the public schools, I take the art that I have to talk about Africa and the story of Africa. And I don’t start with the slave ship, I go all the way back, Egyptian history. I was also fortunate enough to go and see the pyramids, so I take my pictures show them all the pyramids and how they’re still standing and how that has to do with science and architecture and how Africans, how they come from a very high





intellectual group of people, and medicine, how they came, how they did surgery thousands and thousands of years ago. They did brain surgery thousands and thousands of years ago, or religion, you only know about Christianity. Once again, we’re very—unfortunately that’s all that’s taught, but we’re talking religions that were around before Jesus, before Christianity, so I’ve been doing that all along. I just did it at Idlewild about a month ago, so I try to do that. Like I said, I was fortunate enough within those thirty years to go see the pyramids, to cruise up the Nile Valley River, and I got a chance to go to China for the International Women’s Conference. So I got a chance to see the Great Wall, I mean that—I’ve seen two mysteries in my lifetime, I think that’s really good, those two, I mean just fascinating. Either one of them would’ve been great but I’ve been fortunate enough to do that. And the work that I do here, I enjoy it. We started as the festival but we’ve grown into other programs.

	M:	How did the festival start exactly, you kind of—when you came back here, that is what you started on, was community organizing?

	J:	Yeah I started doing the community organizing and quite a bit of it you know was either the Fifth Avenue Community or Porters Community or Kennedy Homes or Duval Heights. So I was working in the area and like I said it just used to be so much negative talk and we wanted to do something positive. So actually this famous poet came to town and he—I used to write poetry, being a teenage mom, high school dropout, there’s a lot there, you know, so the way that I got that out was through poetry. And he said, “Well it’s good, but you need to read it out to people and get feedback from people, you really got something good there.” So I





was going to do a poetry reading, and I don’t know, the poetry reading got moved. Okay, so if you’re going to have a poetry reading you can’t just have poetry you need to have something else you know, maybe a dancer. So then I asked Laverne Porter who had a dance group then if she had a dancer that would dance, and she was like, “Yeah.” And then I said, “Well wouldn’t be bad if we had a little music, too.” So then I got somebody to sing. And before I knew it, it was gonna be on Fifth Avenue, and the DJ who was a DJ in a club right on Fifth Avenue there, they asked him ‘cause you know we was hanging out, “Hey well, how ‘bout you deejaying?” And he was like, “Oh okay.” So he brought out his equipment and was like, “Damn, we need some power though.”. [Laughter] So the guy in the barbershop, Aaron, say “Aaron can we use your power?” And he was like, “Okay.”

	M:	Is that the same one he’s at now, over on Fifth Avenue?



	J:	This is Aaron his brother, the one that they named the street after and he had Victory Temple and part owner of the kitchen there, Mom’s Kitchen, him. He let us use the power out of his place. And then there was a barbeque place here called Pressing Ed Barbeque, well Pres not only could cook barbeque but Pres was a playwright, too, so he could appreciate the arts. And you gonna have a poetry reading, “Hey I just bring the truck out there.” So [Laughter] he brought— there’s your vendor. [Laughter]

	M:	[Laughter].



	J:	And then one of the people who was—we had this—the house that just caught on fire. We had, it was a big house, and we had probably at least ten of us lived





in that house, everybody had their own bedroom, mine had a fireplace too it was really nice, it wasn’t fancy but it was big and nice to me coming from the country. So we—and another person was an artist, so that was our artist. So we called it the First Annual Fifth Avenue Art Festival, hoping that it would be an annual event, but just hoping, you know. We maybe had a hundred people there. ‘Cause we didn’t have any advertise we had no money for advertisement or anything you know, we—in the years to come, second and third year, the people who I’d worked with in the Union, they did a lot of copying for us. Flyers for the festival, they were good to us. I mean we got kind services like that—plenty of people working in the offices did not know how much copying, printing they contributed to the Fifth Avenue Arts Festival [Laughter]. ‘Cause somebody would get fired. [Laughter] That’s how we—and they let us hang a banner across the street by the third year, they didn’t have any laws about it, somehow they come up with some laws right after we did it. [Laughter]It has to be a permit, it has to be a certain length, it has to have these heavy things in it, and they just came up with a lot of it. For about two years we had a banner right across the street there on Fifth Avenue.

	M:	Like out on Thirteenth?



	J:	No, no Fifth Avenue right here at Sixth. M:	Okay just right on the corner there.

	J:	Yeah, yeah. So you know, each year, the second year there was an African dance family who came—Mshongi—and they were really internationally known. And he would do this dance on stilts, dressed and everything, he just—the day





before the festival—he just walked down the street with stilts and people were following him on bikes and walking and running and Gainesville Sun took a picture of it so that got us.

	M:	Oh wow.



	J:	People started, “Wow, let’s go see what that’s about.” Each year it grew and grew. It started out as an hour, hour and a half. It’s grown now to two days of festival activities, and then on Fridays for the last probably fifteen years, we’ve had artists going to the schools on Friday and share their craft with the kids in the schools.

	M:	Wow.



	J:	Yeah. So after our first festival we did a summer program, cultural enrichment program, where we took about twenty kids over to Thomas Center during the summer and we taught them all the way from gardening to basics of architecture to poetry to writing. Kids who said that they did not eat vegetarian food at all, just forget about that, ended up not just eating it but actually helping to prepare it and grow it. But they had dance last year—it was really nice. Santa Fe Community College, after our first couple years they began to fund our summer program and we would do it at different community centers around town. Teaching, have arts programs to come in and do things for the kids. That program turned into what we have now is our environmental ambassador program, where we teach teenagers about taking care of the earth and then they go out and teach other people how to do it, whether we’re talking clean air or keeping our water safe or our food safe or ground water contamination, conservation, energy conservation,





water conservation. They actually visit power plants, they learn about solar energy, they’ve toured totally solar powered homes, they’ve gone to the University of Florida, visited Rinker Hall, you know that’s a—

	M:	Oh yeah.



	J:	That’s one of my favorite places in Gainesville because of a lot of the stuff they got going on there, I really, really—you know, I think that it was because I was born on—or raised out in the country, and being out in nature like that, that I developed a close relationship, and where it laid dormant for years. Once I began to—our organization was contracted by the city of Gainesville in 1990 to do a video on recycling, and before that time I had never really done any activist work in that area. I knew I loved nature but that was as far as I’d gotten with it. And we did the video using dance, music, the double dutch jump rope that the girls do and little hand jive thing they do and we put together a video. The city asked us to do it because they had started recycling in Gainesville, but recycling hadn’t picked up in East Gainesville, so this was to encourage and educate East Gainesville to recycling. So we did the video. And I would like to think that we had something to do with extended life span of our landfill, because it did not actually close until more than five years after it was scheduled to close, but because we were sending less out there it took longer to do it. We picked up quite a bit in East Gainesville from that, our video was also used, I think, in twenty four other states after our coordinator from the City of Gainesville shared it at a conference, and attendees really liked it and they used it to educate their students, they played it in schools. To talk about recycling and the importance of





it. So we started off doing that and we have evolved into not just recycling but clean water, clean air, being sustainable as a community. And I’ve been into it since the early [19]90s, and for much of that time I’ve gone to events in Gainesville where I would be the only Black person there, or one of two Black people there, you know it’s like environmental issues are more of an academia kind of issue. It’s only been in the last five years really, and linking it with climate change, that I think some effort has been made in expanding the environmental movement beyond White, educated people, you know. I certainly have been trying to do that since 1990 myself. I was in Sierra Club for a minute, but they’re not really ready for my kind. [Laughter]

	M:	That’s a, yeah.



	J:	Yeah, right, you understand. So even though I do still work with one of their committees—their inner-city outings—because it’s an opportunity for the kids that I work with to get out the house and to do something outside. Whether it be hiking or going to the beach or playing in trees or whatever, we’ve done all of that with the inner-city outings program. So I’ve worked with them but not too close up.

	M:	I can understand that. So has any of the environmental activism been focused around specific sites or events? I mean I’m thinking of the Coppers debates that have taken place in the last—

	J:	Brownfields are a part of the education that the environmental ambassadors go through. We have been making sure that we do fieldtrips to places like that—





Coppers, until they figured out what I was teaching my kids, they used to let me come out there all the time. [Laughter]

	M:	[Laughter].



	J:	You know. [Laughter] They showed how they used to, you know, pour the stuff right on the ground and how there was no protection there. We left we had a discussion. “Did you see that? Did you hear what he said?”. [Laughter] And then talk radio and some of the conservatives around town told ‘em, “You know that’s Nkwanda Jah,”. [Laughter]

	M:	[Laughter].



	J:	They used to call—we had a commissioner her name was Penny Wheat, they used to call her Penny Green, so they said that me and Penny Green was friends. Or the recent one, Pegeen; you know they hated her, they hated her, too. And we collaborated on some environmental things with my kids so yeah they used to let me come in, they stopped me from coming other there. But I’ve been taking them to the Depot Avenue site that’s over by Rosa Parks Depot Avenue Project, it’s a brownfield there, when gas contaminated that area, underground tanks. So they been cleaning that up for—well they’ve only actually been doing the actual clean-up in the last four or five years, but I’ve been taking my ambassadors there for over a decade. And when we just talked about it was and what they were going to do, so we’ve seen that site really developed over the years of our project, yeah. So I make sure they understand groundwater contamination, and how serious that is, you know. Penny Wheat, former commissioner, son was actually exposed to contaminated water and she used to





come and talk to my ambassadors each summer about her experience with that so yeah, I’ve been teaching that.

	M:	I can imagine.



	J:	Yeah I’ve gone and taken them up to the cement plant because for a while here we were very concerned about that as an environmental hazard. I’ve learned things like small particulate matter, you know, they can’t see but it’s going in, so they teach the kids about that. I’ve had kids that have actually gone with Environmental Protection Department to measure contaminants in the air, they had the setup sites, they’ve helped put up on rooftops, the machines to test the machines. I try to expose them to as much as possible, and I try not to make it sound so complicated. You know because clean water and clean air is not complicated. Treating animals right, if we’re gonna eat ‘em, is not complicated. Putting pesticides on food that we got to eat that could ‘cause your baby’s baby to have some problems is not complicated. So I really I enjoy that part of it, I’ve thoroughly enjoyed it. I hope I’ve got another twenty-five, thirty years of that in me to go to teach and share.

	M:	Yeah I hope so too. So what kinds of, I mean I’d imagine in general you’ve seen some pretty deep changes in the community, but in terms of—at Sam Proctor we’ve spoken to community members who have similar stories to yours, in that they grew up on a farm, or their uncle had a farm, or some connection to the food they eat, is that something that the kids you’ve been working with kind of—or do they still have that understanding of what?





	J:	No. They don’t even—kids nowadays don’t really have those stories. I think that’s very important, the work that you’re doing now, because maybe not these kids but their kids, will be looking for the information that you’re putting together now, the changes. This community has changed a lot since I came here, the first time with the Fifth Avenue Art Festival, or when I was a younger child. From being a younger child the businesses are just gone. You just don’t even—we’re glad there’s some pictures and some recordings because otherwise you’re just not going to know what this community was about. This community has been gentrified, which was one of the things that we said when we did the first Fifth Avenue Art Festival, you know, that we have to keep gentrification out. But that has not happened, not at all. They’ve done things that we just wouldn’t have imagined done, like the apartment complex near Seminary Lane—the affordable housing—that’s gone. You know I wonder, where’re those people? Are those the people that they were talking about last Friday who they said that they give too many vouchers out at the Housing Authority so the people are gonna have to come up with 600 dollars a month? A month?

	M:	I didn’t hear about that. That’s—. [Sighs]



	J:	A month? I mean, where those, I don’t—the other people, the rent has doubled in this community. It’s sometimes tripled. If you had told me ten, fifteen, twenty years ago that you would be able to—that there would be houses in this community that would cost upward of a hundred and fifty to a hundred and seventy-five thousand dollars, I would not have believed it. If you had told me





that this community would be sixty to seventy percent White, I wouldn’t have believed it.

	M:	That’s—how quickly did that change take place?



	J:	Well the first ten years it was real, real, real slow, it was like, “Oh we got to get these boards off these houses we’ve got fifth houses in the community that’s boarded up and we need to get these boards off.” That was like the first ten years, and then the CRA started doing some work, and they started getting some money in, and they said that they spent a million dollars in infrastructure. You know we never believed it because you couldn’t see it, but you know we didn’t understand how a lot of infrastructure is up under the ground or where, you just don’t see it, sidewalks. [Laughter] And then in the last ten years, it’s been these houses that are a hundred and fifty thousand, a hundred and seventy-five thousand dollars, and the apartment buildings like the one right here on the corner, that’s gone up in the last two, three years. Next door I’m told about five years ago that there was a house there that was the first grocery store that stood on that corner, it was over a hundred years old and they took it down and built this house here that they probably put four or five students in. I mean, it’s been moving that way, I’d say in another ten years I daresay it’s going to be totally students here. Totally students.

	M:	Just as a quick aside, what was the name of the grocery store that was there, is that?

	J:	Oh, Gill’s. Gill’s Glover, Glover Gill’s.





	M:	Yeah I’ve heard of that one. The one with the chair. So what effect do you think the historic preservation—historic district designation, has had on the neighborhood? ‘Cause that should’ve, I guess that comes about in [19]82, [19]84 maybe, early [19]80s?

	J:	Yeah, in some ways that’s good because—okay, I’ll show you the difference.



This side of Fifth Avenue, Sixth Street back this way is not a part of the historic district. From Sixth Street back to Second is the historic district. This side, they can tear down or do anything they wanna do over here. Over there, if they have to try to repair it to its original state. This over here, they don’t have to do that. They can tear down a hundred year old building and put something else there. So that’s the difference.

	M:	Yeah I saw somewhere, a free house being advertised. I forget which side that’s on, have you seen that?

	J:	No.



	M:	I think it’s on Seventh, there’s a side on the door that says “This house is free if you’ll pay to move it otherwise we’re going to demolish it.”

	J:	Oh, yeah, yeah, they’ve been doing that for a while, yeah. That’s it right there. M:	Okay, wow.

	J:	Gill Glover, Glover and Gill Grocery. The husbands—the wives had the grocery store and they were there, this is their building too, they moved from here to here, down here, and this was the hall where they had the banquets and the big shows, it’s still on Fifth Avenue.





	M:	Yeah yeah, I think I’ve seen that one. Well I know I’ve seen that one, but, okay so that’s what it looked like. I mean what was the community response to that kind of, or was there much of one?

	J:	Because the community had received a lot of negativity, some of your leaders in the community were supportive of change. They didn’t foresee it going this far, but they probably were used more, you know, in the name of cleaning up the community.

	M:	That makes sense. So what about Porters, what kinds of changes have you seen there?

	J:	Oh the same thing, oh my gosh. I walk that way sometimes, and I was walking through there last night and they have some—I think they cost a little bit—I think they probably about two hundred thousand now it’s like four of them that are sitting there together, it’s right off of Depot Avenue, but it’s right in Porters, and they’re nice houses, two story houses, they’re nice. And you got that kind of thing popping up in Porters there, there are no businesses there other than the cleaner’s. And it’s kind of coming up from Main Street, I see there’s a restaurant, a nice restaurant there across from Civic Media Center and right down from Lynch Park there, so it seems like they’re developing some businesses down there and that’s coming up into Porters. That’s gentrified too, they started a while back, too. And the Porters phase one, phase two, phase you outta here. It’s been the same. They—I think it’s more students—well, this is students too so. And not that we want to be pitted against students, we should not even have that to deal with and I think they’re very nice. I’ve had no problems with students over here.





Well, couple weeks ago the ones next door I don’t know what they were on, but they took to one to climb on top of the roof and they had some rope that they were going to swing from, too.

	M:	Wow, alright, well.



	J:	[Laughter] I don’t know, alcohol or drugs, I don’t know. [Laughter] I told ‘em I didn’t think it was a good idea they said they were going up there for a ball.

	M:	Alright, well.



	J:	Why did you need a rope and ladder? [Laughter] But hey.



	M:	Yeah, fair enough. Sorry, just trying to think of some of the things I wanted to touch back on. I mean, do you remember the names of any of the businesses that you can remember from when you started here, I mean I know you?

	J:	Well Mom’s Kitchen, you know that. Yeah that was here for almost all of my history. I can’t—Cultural Arts Coalition moved into this building in the mid [19]80s, probably, mid to late [19]80s, we moved in here and we were first in an office on the back over there, and Community Action Agency was in here and another cultural group was in here. And we kind of evolved and went from the back office to a larger office over there, and then they renovated the whole building in 2000, and when we came back we were the only organization in the building so I assumed this was my office. [Laughter] And I was ready for me and my sister to be in this office, and then since nobody else was in the building I told her, “Hey, you take that office over there.” They never said anything, and before you knew it. Yeah we been here, we used to work out of this building even before we had a office here, we did cultural programming because they had a recreation





program going on here, so we—that’s another thing, too, recreation programs that used to be so thriving in this community has changed so much in terms of the number of kids participating, and the kinds of activities that the kids get to do, there’s charge for recreation, and parents can’t afford to send their kids to the recreation programs. So they don’t have that many people there, and then they don’t have funding for their kids when they get there, so, then it’s boring for the few that go and then they don’t want to be there, and then—it’s like the classroom, “I don’t wanna be here so I’m not gonna do nothing you say or I’m not gonna do it with a smile at least.”

	M:	That’s a tough sell. Speaking of the move to this building, I mean this is the Wilhelmina Johnson Center, did you know Wilhelmina Johnson?

	J:	Unh-uh. Like I said I just used to come and do programs here, and we would have a youth program but I remember also we had honoring our elders, where we invited elders of the community to come in for dinner and we had the young people, the kids to serve them. Trying to teach the kids, you know, that this is what you’re supposed to do. These are elders and they earned the right to be served by us. It’s just some basic I try to teach ‘em.

	M:	Is that the most of how you learned the history of the community, was through interacting with the elders or were you reading up on it?

	J:	No, through the elders we got a grant from Florida Humanities Council to do a oral history project, so I got a chance to talk to people from the community here. It was very, very good, I enjoyed it. I talked to people like Mr. Gainey who lived to be a hundred and six years old, his mind was you know [snaps fingers] sharp all





the way up to the end, I mean, it was so strange to look up and see a hundred and four, a hundred and five year old walk around the grocery store, you know, or going fishing. He knew so much of the community, I used to make sure that I took kids that I worked with they had to go meet Mr. Gainey. They had to sit and listen to Mr. Gainey. And I took a group of med students from family practice over here to meet Mr. Gainey and I just felt so proud having these students sitting there at the foot of a hundred year old man, listening to how he has lived his life so that he could be a hundred years old. They’re trying to figure out, “Gosh, how you do the body like that, you know, whatcha do.” “Hey, listen to Mr. Gainey.” So there are him and teachers who had taught at Lincoln when it was before integration. One thing I learned that everybody has something to give, it’s not just the professionals who have worked hard in our community. Ms. Savannah Williams, I think about her, and she was the one who took me out the first time I ever did voter registration, and she sat down and she taught me how to do it and how you treat people to get ‘em to vote and how you just do the right thing and how you have respect for people. She was in this community, she was very active—there was medical facilities around Gainesville that we don’t really know a whole lot about like there was the property that was given to Blacks over in the Sugar Hill area to build a hospital over there, or there was a little hospital right here on Tenth Street. The dentist, I was at that house, was able to go inside of ‘em, where it is the first Black dentist had an office at. Just standing on the property where there was a silent theatre. I learned that from sitting and talking to people in the community. There’s history in all of it, but just studying Black history





has been special to me because the way that it was formally or lack of formally been taught it’s just so much there and I enjoy it.

	M:	So do I, that’s why I do this. What kinds of—one thing we’ve been interested in increasingly—What kinds of discussions of the University did you hear with members of the community, especially long-time residents? I mean, did people talk to you about working there or did they?—We’ve encountered, I don’t know, some resentment from people who, I mean they very explicitly remember the kinds of dividing lines that used to be there, and then other people of course they’re watching the Gators on TV.

	J:	Neither one for me. I wasn’t here during the segregated part other than coming in, you know, that brief time when I was a child when my mom lived here.

University has been there but not really been there for much of my activist life here. Like I said, my roommate had resources from over there that was great for me, and she was actually able to do a couple of conferences, Black Family Against the Odds was a conference that they did for a couple years that was very eye-opening for me. They had some great speakers I mean Stokely Carmichael, I never would have got a chance to see him if not over there, I mean the man talked for three and a half hours and I was like, “You’re through?”. [Laughter] Oh my gosh. So I’ve met some really good people there. Gil Scott-Heron who just recently passed I met at the University of Florida. They used to have Reggae Sun Splash, you know Third World was here like two, three times a year. I mean it was just great, it was great for that. You know later on when I was doing my work in the labor union, we worked with employees from over there so I’ve known





that they’ve not had a great working thing for employees, but it’s not as bad as some areas, but hey, bad is bad. Like I said, the anti-Apartheid movement, I was over there a lot for that. Also there was a program, this guy Pete Self, community boards, where people from the community and the university were trained to get neighbors together to talk over there problems rather than to call the police. To sit down and talk it through themselves. I thought that was a great thing that came out with—Pete was not your traditional, he was a teaching assistant and he you know taught classes at the jail. He would take students to the jail two, three times a week, you know it was. [Laughter] It was something like that. He had the people coming out of jail thinking that they was really something. [Laughter] We did a video to promote community boards and it was good, it was real good, I enjoyed that, too. I’m always in support of people taking care of their own problems as opposed to bringing the courts into it, that kind of thing.

	M:	Well, so none of the activist things you’ve been involved in were necessarily university-centered, like there was some controversy when they renamed the O’Connell Center—or when they named it, I’m sorry.

	J:	Yeah, I remember that, and yeah I was a part of some protest against that, but yeah he was a racist. They’ve had so many at UF.

	M:	Well, buildings are named after.



	J:	Yeah, people who give money—do they decline any? I mean you know some in sources, what’s his name, Madoff? Would they take Madoff money? [Laughter] They probably would.

	M:	Probably. I don’t know, I have trouble imagining them declining money.





J:  Yeah that’s right so, hey. But no, no not otherwise. We did—we occupied Tigert Hall for forty days and forty nights and they ended up police bringing a bus over there and arresting people. But in the end—

M:   And that was students and community members?



	J:	Yeah students and community. I’ve always held that—you know and I’ve told people at protests, especially White people—it’s easier for White people to get out of jail. Me, I get there out there and oh yeah, well we arrested you for this but we were looking for you for this right here or something. I just, I don’t take that kind of chance. It’s not an easy thing for me. I don’t like being locked up. Just don’t think I’d do well.

	M:	Can understand that, yeah.



	J:	Not that I haven’t been arrested. Definitely, you know, but I haven’t been jailed. [Laughter]

	M:	When does your activism start? I mean you—‘cause I guess you were, what, you would’ve been about ten when civil, well no you were, the whole Civil Rights Movement was kinda going on as you were growing up.

	J:	Yeah I actually missed the Civil Rights Movement. I regret that. By the time—I mean Martin was dead, Malcolm was dead, Steve Biko—I think Steve Biko was dead by the time I became conscious. Yeah I was late twenties, early thirties when I really became active. You know it was working up to that for a years but like I said the Civil Rights Movement had gone on but I read Malcolm X so that just like puts it square back in your lap, so whatchu gon’ do? Kinda thing. So I just started working like that, and the woman from UF, she was a law student but





she really was from the community. She had more of that kind of feeling about, she had a child, she was getting welfare, she was a mom, she was a community person, and I was just so fascinated with her, she was like the most smartest person of any ethnic group I’d ever met in my life. I was just fascinated with her, and she treated me just like hey, you and me we—you know and I just—she was involved in all kind of things all over the community whether it be with tenants or whether it be with, they had a Black professional group that met, and she was all up in there running that, you know, I mean she was so diverse, she was in to healthy things you know, I’d never even heard of a vegetarian before her, you know? [Laughter] She’s just this wonderful person I was just in awe of her you know, and after I met her—and you might not want to put this in but—I actually met her I was with this guy—

	M:	Did you want me to stop the tape or I can keep—?



	J:	It doesn’t matter. I was with this guy who was trying to get with her. But she didn’t know about me, so she and I ended up being best friends and he got knocked out [Laughter], he got knocked out. You know a nigger for you. So she and I got to be tight, and then I’d be going to meetings with her, and one day she said, “Well, I need to go over here to this meeting, so you go over there to that meeting and you handle it over there and I’ll do this.” And then she just continued to talk like she hadn’t just dropped like the biggest bomb ever on me. I was going to have to go to the meeting, “What, what’re you talking about? I can’t do that.” She just continued to talk and then get dressed and leave and then I was forced to go, and I did it. I came back, I’d taken my notes, told her what all happened, and





she was like, “Good, good, okay so whatchu’ gonna do next?” “What I’ma do next?”. [Laughter] I mean before I knew it there was a case where the police was called to an emergency, a call over in Porters, and this man and this woman had been arguing all day long and somebody had called in you know, they fighting, so the police comes in and, the guy I guess the guy I don’t know whether he was in the house when they came or when they came he ran out the house. But it was like dusk, dusk/dark when they got there, and then it got dark, and they for some reason had the lights turned off in Porters. And they started shooting. And one police officer was shot in the arm, and then another police comes into the area, but he doesn’t announce himself as being there, so one of the police got shot and they’re taking the police to the hospital. The police figured they’d shot somebody but they think it’s this guy that they was after who they had shot, but it was actually another police officer. So they take the police that they know got shot, and takes him to the hospital, I think he got shot in the arm or something, if they had gotten that other police officer when they went to take him, they would’ve saved his life. But they just think it’s this Black guy in the ditch, “Hey, oh well.” Well, they find out that it was a police officer and the police officer dies.

They charge this guy that they came at, with some crime because the police were there because of him. So my roommate who’s in law school and it’s the public defender office that is defending this guy, she takes over the whole case. I mean she’s telling them, she’s drawing diagrams, she’s telling them who they need to question, and I’m like watching her, I’m like wow. That’s how I just started. Just doing it. She just said do it and I did it and it felt good. This guy





showed up to my house and I’ve been doing—and I count my years by the festival I actually started a little before then but this was maybe like the seventh, eighth festival—but this guy shows up and he says I heard that you help people. And I was like, “Well, yeah, when I can, what do you need?” And he started telling me about his family problems, and I was like, “Well why are you telling me that?” And he said, “Because they said you help people.” And he meant like, for lack of a better term, like a voodoo person. You know you’re having a problem. [Laughter] ‘Cause by that time I’d gotten a reputation for helping people, you know, but it was the Union, it was my labor Union working, Taylor working, that kind of thing. Not like that. [Laughter] But I’ve enjoyed, I really have enjoyed my work. I tell people that God is my supervisor. I have a board of directors but by far they are not my supervisors. [Laughter] I let them think sometimes that they kinda running something, but you know God be my supervisor, my supervisor’s given me really good jobs to do, you know with the environment and working with the kids and doing the Fifth Avenue Art Festival and you know, having a chance to work with the elders to do the programs that are done with them. It’s been good.

	M:	So you grew up Methodist, is that correct?



	J:	Yes. And I was saying I was born Mary Ann. Okay so, yes, and I was raised in African Methodist Episcopal—that’s the AME Church—we went to the second and the fourth Sunday and it was a all day affair, I mean all the way from Sunday school to night service and then they had to sanctify people. Holiness people was having Church when you passed by their Church you had to stop by there and





finish out the night with that. So I was Christian. But I started feeling kind of strange about that, probably ‘bout twenty, twenty-one. You know it just started. I guess it started—well I read Malcolm X and he wasn’t Christian, he’d gone from Christian to being a Muslim so I started thinking, learning that there were other religions out there. I never did like that fire and brimstone and hell burning stuff. It just always made me—I used to have nightmares you know from the burning, the hell burning thing, I mean I went through at least like a year of dreaming about this big pit that I’d be thrown into. And I was all just scared of that. And then when we would go to the Holiness churches they would be shouting and sweating and just jumping all around and I remember sitting there saying, “Please please please Jesus please please don’t let it come on me please please God don’t let it get one me whatever it is up there they got please don’t let it get on me.” But then when I was mid-twenties, I started looking for God in different churches here in Gainesville. I went to Baptist, and Methodist, to Black, to White. I was even at the Church that was calling a cult that’s over by the law school—there’s a big church over there and they did a story on it ‘cause it was cultish here for a while. But I was going to church there. But I never did give up partying totally. After looking for God all over everywhere and they told me it was over there at that church, and then I had a birthday party, and the people came to get us to go to church and that was on Sunday morning after the Saturday night party, and they had spent so much time you know on us, we were going to church two or three times a week, they’d invested time in us and then they come and we partied. [Laughter] They stopped it, they stopped coming in. And then I started with my





name, you know, it was M-A-R-Y-A-N-N, and I was like that need to be changed, that just look so common. So then I changed it to M-A-R-I A-N-N, two words, that looked a little better but it just still wasn’t right. So after reading Malcolm and starting getting into African history I said, “I’m thinking about African name.” So I started trying out different names and I came to Qwanda, with a Q, and then I read this book, Jomo Kenyatta, who was the leader of Kenya, and he was a strong leader and I liked his name—no I’m sorry, not Jomo Kenyatta, it was Nkuma.

	M:	Oh yeah, okay, yes.



	J:	It was Nkuma so I liked that N and K on that, so I put that with Qwanda, and made it NKwanda, and then any name needs to have meaning, so I was looking for God and putting that together and it came out to what I wanted. The meaning I gave to myself, it was for myself, it wasn’t for anybody else, but to remind me of my mission, and my mission is rebirth of the spirit of God, which is love. If I love everything that God made, then I will be doing what God wants me to do. And if I loved everything that God made then I wouldn’t hurt what God made, I wouldn’t hurt the air, I wouldn’t hurt the water, I wouldn’t hurt the animals, I wouldn’t hurt other people, and Jah is God. And the NKwanda to me represents a transition— the NK is from Africa, and Wanda is American, and Jah is the Caribbean, and it represents that transatlantic trip from Africa to the Caribbean to the United States. So that’s where my name comes from. And I was—I’m a board member of Three Rivers Legal Services and they’re like, you know, provide legal help for the poor, and I was on that board being a poor person, and they wrote me a





check—‘cause I’d been going by the name NKwanda Jah for two or three years—and they wrote me a check to go on a trip, and I couldn’t cash the check because it said NKwanda Jah and it wasn’t my legal name, and they was like, “You need to change your name. We can go to court with you.” ‘Cause the director was an attorney, “I’ll go to court with you, you can do that.” I went to court, and the judge said, “Why are you changing your name?” And I said, “Because I don’t want to die with the slave master’s name.” And he looked at me and looked at the person and says, “Okay.” So I changed it. And it’s still for me to remind me—all the people always said, “Oh that is such a pretty name, I like that.” “Thank you, thank you, I appreciate it,” but it’s really to guide me, to remind me what my purpose is, and I do believe that I have to believe. Going all the way back to being a high school dropout teen mom, like I said I loved school, my parents didn’t have to get on me for getting a B, I got on myself. You know so I couldn’t understand why something like that would happen to me, and I believe it had to happen for me because it prepared for me the work that I do now. I didn’t learn about being a high school dropout from a book or what somebody told me, I know about being a teen mom ‘cause it’s not read out of a book, I know what can happen with that. When I taught—I have another, my girl power program—what I tell ‘em I tell ‘em cause I know, not ‘cause somebody told me. So I’ve enjoyed it. Being blind I almost went to school in Saint Augustine for the School for the Deaf and Blind, it’s a really good school there. Ray Charles went to school there. And they wanted me to come to school there when I was in Elementary School because of my visual problems, but my mom, in our community you just don’t





send your child away I don’t care what’s wrong with ‘em [Laughter] you don’t send ‘em away. Sometimes I wonder what my life would have been like you know if I had gone to school there as opposed to coming the path that I came. And it’s alright, I like this. I worked the first twelve years was total volunteerism for this job. Total. And then for five years I got six hundred dollars a year, so it was not until after my twentieth year that I even got a salary for this job. I used to get up and get dressed—I wouldn’t dress like this in my earlier days, this is a after work or weekend outfit. I got dressed up like everybody else, like I was getting paid. [Laughter] I was at every meeting. And because I’m blind I don’t drive. I used to be at like ten meetings a day, people would be like, “How’d you get here?” I used to be in ten different cars a day. To get where I needed to get, to do what I needed to do. I loved it, I still love it. Think I’m getting poorer [Laughter], you know with budget cuts I don’t know how long I’ll be around, but—

	M:	Oh yeah, those are getting harsh.



	J:	You know I’ve been blessed that people know me in Gainesville, and they know I work, and they know the work that I’ve done. The majority of City Commissioners who say I can count numbers, as long as I keep my majority of them who know what I’m doing, you know, I’m gonna be somewhat. If something happens I know it’s because they couldn’t—they had to do it, there was no choice. Couple years ago they had me on the third or fourth tier, so they had to go through all these other ones before they even got to where I was, and they didn’t even get close to that. County Commissioner I can’t say. [Laughter] The city know where I’m at,





know what I’m doing. And I hear my other meeting’s coming in, so I mean is there something else?

	M:	Only if you have any final thoughts to share.



	J:	I think I’ve—I love Gainesville. I love the diverse culture here. I work with a national organization called Rural Development Leadership Network and we have such a diverse cultural experience, but people in there, you know we have at least ten Native American groups represented in our DLEN. You know Shirley Sharad who was recently in the media is a board member of—Twila, who was one of the few women Indian chiefs, is a board member, so it’s really diverse and I’ve enjoyed that. Gainesville, I think, prepared me for that because it’s a melting pot here, and I’ve had the pleasure of meeting and working with some really really great people, over my thirty-two years. It’s made the thirty-two years go by fast, you know, got a lot of support here. I love it. And after all that time—oh I was going to tell you about the God thing, I look for God everywhere, all over Gainesville, and mess around and found God within myself. And I love her dearly. The only time that I went in a church for over twenty years after I found God, it was twenty years before I actually went back and participated. Recently, well not recently, three years ago, joined the church in Atlanta, and it’s called First Afrikan Church and Africa is spelled with a k, there’s a cross there but they’re more ox than crosses. My pastor—and those are words I never, didn’t think I’d hear myself say for the rest of my life—my pastor, you know teaches more from history books. I mean, you might read the Bible every now and then but that’s just one book and then you got to know where that came from and the





history of that and really understand. I didn’t even know the King James version was only done in the 1700s, I thought King James version came all the way back from 3 A.D. or something, I didn’t even know. And so many things that you don’t know, you don’t look at in terms of time and reality, we’re fed these fairy tales and this church does not do that, in the very least. My pastor it’s nothing for him to miss and use—and I say miss because he’s not trying to do it—but he might use some profanity, you know during—he’s explaining the stuff he get caught up, and he curse you know. There’s nothing for him to try to do [snaps finger] some Stevie Wonder or some Garvin Maye from his pulpit or to move the pulpit so that the young people can get up and do hip hop or whatever they’re doing in the Church. Those are kinds of things, I don’t know if you know about Kwanzaa, but it’s a seven day celebration and for most of African Americans do it that last week of December. Christmas day through January first. And this Church will do Kwanzaa all year round, and the principles of Kwanzaa, which are unity, self- determination, faith. You know I mean it’s seven of ‘em that we do, you know, ujamaa, supporting Black businesses, or supporting businesses in your community, if we’d done that we maybe have had more businesses left down here. So practicing those principals, that’s what I’ve been doing. I think that we’re all children of God, that there have been prophets like Jesus, Malcolm, Martin, Sojourner, Gandhi, and others that have given their lives. They knew that somebody would kill ‘em, they knew it. But they kept on going. I tell people all the time, I love Jesus more than most Christians do, I respect the work that he did, I wanna do and try to do the work that Jesus did. And if all Christians would just do





the work that he did, and not just try to get accolades and jump up and down, you know like they do for Martin, give all these plaques and everything now, how about Martin, the work that Martin Luther King did. He got killed standing up for some garbage workers. How about let’s do some of that. How about Jesus went out and worked with and tried to help the people who had the plagues, how about how we dealing with people with AIDS in fact telling ‘em that they’ve done something that God has put a spell on ‘em or something. That’s not my God. My God says that however you know God, however you know God, ‘cause if you know God then you gonna treat what God made right. However you get to know that, if walking around with a stick in your hand all day long gonna make you treat people right, walk with the stick. You’re walking with the Bible in your hand all day long gonna make you treat people right, walk with the Bible. I don’t care what you’re walking with, as long as you come to know and love what God made. Not what man made, not the cars and the trucks and the houses and the clothes. And it only makes sense right? If you love—like the trees, we can’t live without the trees. We cannot live without trees. You don’t wanna cut ‘em down. For what? To make money? Okay, I’m sorry, I going too far now. [Laughter] Oh, I’m preaching now I gotta go to my meeting but—

	M:	All right, well thank you very much, this is—I mean it’s been a pleasure, I hope you enjoyed it as well.

	J:	I have enjoyed it. [End of Interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, November 29, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 20, 2019