AAHP 066; Dixie; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 066 Laura Dixie

African American History Project (AAHP) Interview conducted by Paul Ortiz on July 22, 2009 1 hour, 45 minutes | 47 pages



Abstract: Laura Dixie, a lifelong union organizer, political activist, and Civil Rights Movement veteran, describes some of her activism over the years. At W. T. Edwards hospital in Tallahassee, she worked with a White secretary who would secretly share administrative memos so that she could confront the realities of racist and discriminatory practices through her organizing. She also describes taking integration into her own hands by using a fingernail file to take down all of the “White” and “Colored” signs segregating the bathrooms and throwing them in the trash. She describes what working at the hospital was like in general, and then how she began her involvement in the American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees (AFSCME) union and some of the activities within the union. She also relates memories of Reverend C.K. Steele, and the Civil Rights Movement activities that they both were involved in. She contextualizes some of these activities with discussion of her memories and experiences of Jim Crow Florida, and relates the importance of having multiple active organizations like NAACP, SNCC, and so on, that fight to defend the people’s rights and create opportunities for them.





Keywords: [African American History; Gadsden County, Florida; Leon County, Florida; Union Organizing; Civil Rights Movement]























For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 066

Interviewee: Laura Dixie Interviewer: Paul Ortiz Date: July 22, 2009



	O:	We’re here today with Laura Dixie. Thank you, Mrs. Dixie, for taking time out of your busy schedule.

	D:	You’re welcome.



	O:	I really appreciate it. I wonder, we’ve talked a lot in the past about different activities and community activism that you’ve been involved in, but we never really talked much about the role that you played in AFSCME and I wonder if you wouldn’t mind talking to me today a bit about that. I have an article from your union’s journal, August 1983, and it talks about you and it says that you’re President of Local 2847. And I wonder if you could tell me about how you came about being president of the union.

	D:	Well I was off that day. You know, we used to have off days. I was walking down the street and I met a young man. I think he just thought I was somebody walking, you know, looking, and he asked me, he said, oh, are you off today or do you work? I said, yes, I have a job. He asked me where I worked and I told him I worked at WTE. He asked what WTE was at the time. He said, what kind of a hospital is that? I told him a TB hospital. He said, I tell you, I’m a union person. I’m a union man. I said well you really need to explain that to me because we having some problems out there. Then he explained to me and he said, you know, you can really start a union. He told me how to do it, and I did exactly what he said and the people listened. They knew how they were acting out there and we formed a union. That’s how we got started. I was the president [Laughter] It was kind of funny to me because I don’t know why I did it, but even before I met





that union man, every memo they sent out–and they did not know this because I think they would have hung that lady by her head. She would always–she was a White secretary, because they didn’t have Black ones then–

O:   At the union?



	D:	At the hospital. They didn’t have Black secretaries. But anyway, I don’t know how we did it but we did it. But every memo they sent out, she would give me a copy, you know, and I would read it. I’d get this thing and go to Reverend Steele and Reverend Gooden [with] this memo, and show them what was going on. And then I used to try to talk to the people but you know, the administrators and things, they just didn’t listen to you.

	O:	What were the memos that the administrators were sending out?



	D:	Oh, they was talking about every time they got rid of or changed something in the White favor they would do it, they would never mention the Black. That kind of upset me because it really wasn’t even integrated then. They just integrated that when it came in. That’s when they integrated because that place was well segregated. Because I will never forget the day they integrated that place. They had those Colored signs, Colored and White–

	O:	…At W.T. Edwards?



	D:	They had them. I had a long fingernail file at the time and I just got my fingernail file and went round and I took down every one of the signs. They wanted to know who took down the signs. Somebody said–I didn’t talk much [Laughter], but they say, nobody done that but Dixie. So they came to me and I said, well, you know what? Prove it. If you can prove I took them down, well, then you just proved it.





They could never find out who took those signs down. They had LPNs most of them White, working down there. They had one lady working there, she said, I can’t work here. My husband ain’t going to allow me to work here because [there are] Black folks here. He don’t want me working with these Black folks. I never will forget the Director of Nursing. She was a tall lady and she had just got out [of] the service. She had been in the service. You know how them service people are. She said, let me tell you something. If you work here, you are going to work with everybody. She said, now if you don’t want to work here, because the place will be desegregated, the door you came into get the job, there it is you go right out that door. [Laughter] That lady never left that day. She retired. She sure did. I guess her husband told her, yea, but you can’t quit your job. He told her something because she stayed there and worked and she tended the Black folks as well as the White folks. Because that Director of Nursing told her. She said, well, if you work here, if you stay here, you’re going to tend to everybody because all these peoples are patients. She finally went on. I think she retired or something or went on some ways else. And then some more people came in. At the time, I think we were trying to get this thing straight. I think Dr Litten must have been the Medical Director or somebody there because, you know, it didn’t bother me that much who they were, but it was how they were doing. You know I just had to get–Dr. Aukland was living right across the street there. He did social work, psychology–he was a psychologist too. He did all that kind of stuff. I got him to go over with Reverend Steele and Reverend Gooden and Father Brooks, they went out there… Reverend Gooden told me he said, well I tell you what. I





told him I was getting every memo. [He said, every memo] you get you bring me a copy. I did that. Every memo I got I made a copy and carried it to Reverend Gooden. I kept on at them until really we did have this meeting. We met out there and I never will forget it; Reverend Gooden asked Mr. Bullard. He said, Mr.

Bullard–and he pulled out. He didn’t know that the man had all that stuff in his folder. He said, have you ever sent out a memo? He read that memo and he said, oh no, Reverend Gooden, I wouldn’t send out a memo like that. [Laughter] I would never do that! Reverend Goodman said he just went in his folder, got the thing and pulled it out and said, read this Mr. Bullard. Your name is signed on that. [Laughter] Dr. Linden just boo-hoo cried. She just started boo-hoo crying–

	O:	She was an administrator?



	D:	Yeah she was really the Medical Director. She was over the doctor. I was so tickled. I tried to keep myself from laughing. I was just so tickled, I didn’t know what to do.

	O:	What were on the memos?



	D:	I don’t know if I have one of those memos here or not. I probably do downstairs somewhere but honey, you talking about having to go through some stuff? I’m have to go through some stuff to find that.

	O:	But they were memos that–



	D:	–really was against everything they was supposed to be doing. They just wanted to keep it–and the Director of Nursing, she had been in the Army and all across everywhere. She was used to integration and she didn’t stay there too long. But Dr. Linden, they weren’t used to integration. Dr. Kraft came to work out there. He





was a surgeon. He was a real good surgeon. He used to do all the surgery for the–when they had that TB, we used to have to take out part of their lungs and things, you know. And they got better. And she married Dr. Kraft. So when you hear about these Kraft boys running around here with this car, those are her sons.

	O:	Ok. Interesting.



	D:	But that was a trying time. Then they put into trying to, I think, get rid of me. They had a Black guy that used to work with them. He was the doctor’s assistant and they used to get him–Joe Dean. They used to try to get–they wouldn’t come tell me but they would send Joe Dean. They say, see if you can get her to leave.

Maybe she’ll just get tired and leave. He came up to me one day and he said, Mrs. Dixie. Because see I had a suite in with Reverend Steele against the school board–

	O:	Oh a lawsuit? Ok yeah–



	D:	–and he said, you know, what? If I was you, I’d just go on a quit because you’re the Vice President for NAACP and you got this in with–I said, Dean–I let him talk. He finished. I said, Dean, now tell me what that have to do with me and this job? That do not have anything to do with me and this job. I come here, I do my work and I go home. Now I come back the next day unless I’m off. I said, you know what, my mother always told me a dog bring a bone that carry one. I say you go back and tell them this. You tell them I ain’t going no damn where. [Laughter] I say you tell them to fire me. If they want to get rid of me, fire me and I bet you





one thing they will never fire another Black person. And I guess he went over there and told them. They ain’t bother me no more and nobody else.

	O:	Wow. Mrs. Dixie what was your occupation in the hospital?



	D:	I was a CNA. They didn’t call them CNA then. It was Nurse’s Assistant. We had to keep the patient clean, have to bathe them. They mostly ate–we had a dining room but some of them couldn’t go in the dining room because they was a little too sick so we brought their trays up and they eat. We got them well. [Laughter]

	O:	So you were responsible for the direct patient care–



	D:	Yeah, I was responsible for that and bathing them and all that kind of stuff. We would take them on trips sometimes, because we had vans to take them on trips. I used to take them as far away as Jacksonville, because they bought a school bus. [Laughter] It was so funny to me. They bought a school bus and it was a stick shift and I was the only one [who] could drive it. They said, you got to teach somebody how to drive it. I said, you got to have some people around here–I know some of these men know how to drive a stick shift. I said, look I was hired to take care of patients and that’s my job. I am not teaching anybody to do anything. I said now you go down there to the highway patrol and get you some highway patrolman or something to come out here and teach these people how to drive this bus. I said, because I’m not gonna do it. That’s not my job description because I had my job description. You know, after I join the union I got all that stuff. I had my job description. I had the union rules and regulations because they came out there and they told them whenever I was the president of the union, whenever I had to go somewhere, I had to be released to go. They





had that in writing. They tried too. One day they called me to go to Miami and I called my supervisor and I told my supervisor. She said, you can’t go, you can’t leave here now. I said, okay. That’s all I say. Went on down there and called the union office. They said, okay Mrs. Dixie, you go on back to work. We [will] take care of this. [They] called her up about five minutes later. Here she come and I hear, Mrs. Dixie you put them people on me. I said, what you talking about? I ain’t put nobody on you. I said you have that statement right in your desk. I said, you know all about it. If I’m called by the union, you’re supposed to release me and let me go. She said, ooh Mrs. Dixie. Go! Go! She said, go! [Laughter]

	O:	Mrs. Dixie when you first met the union organizer do you remember what year that was?

	D:	I don’t remember what year it was. I have it somewhere downstairs but just like I say, I have that stuff so–

	O:	Okay, but maybe sometime late [19]60s early [19]70s? D:	It ought to be–

	O:	It does say 1974. Sought out AFSCME in 1974.



	D:	Yeah that’s it, that’s correct. Because I got to the place, I said, now, we have to do something here because they even had a credit union out there–

(Son’s Voice): I’m not sure but I think that’s right, has she mentioned that? I think that was the suit she was talking about.

	D:	We got a credit union out there. They had nerve enough to lend White people work out there I said, wait a–and they was crazy enough they made a mistake. They wasn’t thinking when they put me on the board of the Credit Union. There





was a nurse came out there. She had just finished nursing school and she needed a car. She wanted a car. I said, well, you know–They let her have the money to go get her a car and that was okay. But when the Black person got ready to get some money they weren’t gonna let them have no money and I said, oh no siree. This will not happen. Better not happen. I said, you loan her money and you didn’t even know her. She just walked out of nursing school and didn’t have no kind of nothing. Hadn’t done anything. And here you gonna let he–and I don’t have nothing against you lending her money to get her a car cause she need it, but you are not going to put these Black people through that. I said you loan them money just like you loaned her money, and they had to do that. So, I got that straight. I stayed there until they shut the place. You know, because we eradicated that TB and they had to close that and that’s when those deformed children came in–Sunland! That’s when Sunland came in. They had these retarded and deformed children, those W.T. Edwards people just had TB. That was anybody, doctors or nurse or anybody. We had a lady from Gainesville. She was an instructor at [inaudible 17:34] Gainesville and she got contracted TB somehow or another. She came up there and [we] kept her up there until she got better too.

	O:	Mrs. Dixie, you were saying that W.T. Edwards closed down eventually and I don’t think there are TB hospitals–

	D:	You know they had one but, they might be done eradicated all of them because we had one or two patients we had to send down around Miami somewhere down there to a TB hospital, but I hadn’t heard anything else about any. I think





they closed most of them. One time, they said they had eradicated TB but I remember seeing something about TB one time but they was taken up to the hospital or something so I don’t know how that ever panned out.

	O:	What was it like to work in a TB hospital?



	D:	Just like any other hospital you had to put [on] gowns and masks. You know, masks. But we got so used to it, we didn’t even wear masks. You have to wash your hands all the time. You have to wash–you couldn’t do–oh, you have to wash your hands. I know when I used to come home I’d put all my clothes up washing. I’d wash them before–that’s the first thing I did, wash those clothes because some germs or something might have gotten on them. I had kids here. I washed my clothes but you know, just like anything else. These people, the onliest thing that was wrong with them [was that] they had TB and they wanted to get rid of it. Dr. Karev was an excellent doctor. That’s who did–I called and send me–got cancer. I called Dr. Karev. He got it. He went in there and got it.

	O:	Mrs. Dixie when you started organizing the AFSCME Union, were you mainly organizing Black workers or was it White employees–?

	D:	It was White employees and some of them joined too. Some of them joined. We had Whites that joined. Then we used to go to Panama city a lot because they had a union down there and those people used to come up here sometimes.

Every time–we would have something like a convention once a year and we had to go. Usually the people from Panama City would come up here and get with us and we all would go together sometimes. And it was White–White and Black. I got mad at one of my buddies there one time. He went down there knowing good





and well he couldn’t drink all that liquor. Went down there and got so drunk. Then when he got ready to come [home], I said, let me tell you something. He was in the car [with] his foot hanging. I said, take your foot in that window, because I ain’t gonna have these here highway patrollers stopping me on account of you. I was so mad with him because he had went out and got drunk. He couldn’t even help me drive. I had to take them all the way to Panama City. Yeah, we had, you know.

	O:	When you were organizing, when you started negotiating with W.T. Edwards, was there a union election?

	D:	Yeah, we didn’t have it at W.T. Edwards but we used to meet right over at that hotel. Now when we was really negotiating salaries and things we met a lot of time up there in that Mayo building. That’s up there by Barnett Bank. We met up in there. There was one night when I sounded off on–I had been up there all night long. They keep you in those things because you [are] not gonna stop until you come to some kind of agreement. I just got so aggravated and mad I said, shoot, I got my children at home. They just switching from one thing to the other. I got up and I told them. I said, let me tell–I started cussing, I said, let me tell y’all one damn thing, I got children at home. You better sit down here at this table and do your work because I am going home! Everything got so quiet. They started looking at me–

	O:	The management people?



	D:	Um-hm. I said, I fixed y’all, didn’t I? They said, Mrs. Dixie, we didn’t know you cursed. I said, you know it now. [Laughter] I said, mainly I do not do that, but you





just aggravated me. I said, we were wasting time. I said, you don’t waste time on stuff like this. You know what you’re negotiating. You got to come to some kind of agreement. That’s just the way I treated them. They thought I was kind of crazy too.

	O:	What were the main things you were trying to get in the first contract?



	D:	We was trying to get these people’s salary, more money. That’s what we was trying to do. We was trying to get them better jobs and more money. The main thing was more money. We was trying to get it. That’s why we stayed there. We stayed there till we do it.

	O:	So when you did get negotiate that first contract, were you able to get some salary increases?

	D:	Yes, with the state. [We] negotiated with the state. O:	That’s who you were negotiating with was the state?

	D:	Yes. They give you a rough time now, but if you give them a rough time back. My job, too, was to see that all the employees was treated right. We did have a girl– we had two–that girl would drink but we always had some stipulation in there.

They had to either send them to a rehabilitation place. If you find out the employee was an alcoholic, they had to send her–but see, they wanted to fire her. I said, oh no, you cannot fire her. I said, you cannot fire, you got to send her–and they did! They sent her. She stayed about two months, two or three months, and she came back alright, supposed to be. That gal went right back to– she worked but stayed sober on that job for about a month and a half. One day she went out to get lunch and she came back. They said she was so–they called





me down there. She was sitting up down there. She was so drunk I don’t even know how she got back there in the car but she got back there. They said, we [are] going to firing her now! I said, no you’re not. I said, you got to send her back. I said she fell off the way and you got to send her back, and they send her back. I said, she fell off the wagon. You’ve got to send her back. They sent her back. She stayed about three months that time. She came back and done the same identical thing. When they called me back down there again I said, well you have the authority to do what you want to now, because I see it really not working for her. So that was one of my jobs too.

	O:	So you were like a shop steward? D:	Yeah.

	O:	Was that before you became president or was that the same time?



	D:	No, that was the same time, but you see I just had to see that they not mistreat the employees because sometime they would try to take their time and everything. They just couldn’t do it. One lady out there–now this lady was sick. She was really sick. They thought she was drunk, but she wasn’t drunk she was sick and I found out that she really had cancer. They said, oh we’re going to have to fire her. I said, no you won’t. I said, this woman doesn’t drink, she sick. I hadn’t really found out what her sickness is, I said, but she is a good employee. She’s just sick and she’s got to work. They found out. She finally had to stop because she had cancer and she died. I threw it up in their face. I said, see, if you had fired that lady, the devil was gonna get you, because the lady really was sick.

They say, you right Mrs. Dixie. she really was sick. I said, yeah she was and





that’s why I wasn’t gonna let you fire her. So yeah, it was a hard. But you know when I went to work out there at W.T. Edwards, I told the people in the front office, I said, now look, I fill out my application to come out here to work and I came to work. I said, but I want y’all to know something. I got a husband. I got children, and I got a mom and a daddy. I said, nobody calls me on my job unless it’s an emergency. I said, but if I get a call about some of those people, y’all better not keep it from me, because you’re gonna be in trouble. If anything happened to my family, I’m leaving. So I just got them straight about what I was gonna take and what I wasn’t going to take.

	O:	When did you start working at W.T. Edwards, Ms. Dixie? D:	Lord, I don’t even know.

	O:	Had you worked at a hospital before?



	D:	No, I used to be up here at Florida A & M quite a bit. I really wasn’t working, but I knew a lady and she knew me. I used to just go up there to keep her company sometime. I used to go in the hospital and I watch them and how they worked. It looked like everybody in my family was going to be a nurse anyway. I just never went back to being no nurse because I didn’t want to, but I just liked to work with people.

	O:	It seemed that you’ve done so much in the Civil Rights Movement, with the bus boycott and later years, it’s almost impossible to imagine how to you had time to work there.

	D:	But I did.



	O:	[Laughter] But you were vice president of the NAACP also at the time?





	D:	Yes, sir. One of my supervisors called me in one day. I was so mad with him.



See, we had clients, if they wasn’t that bad, we had some houses we would put them in. He sent every last body from every last employee from their house. All the clients from the house, except me. I said, now wait a minute here. What is going on here? I said, you know what? I got to protect myself. We used to kind of teach the clients how to cook. We had knives and things but we had to keep them out their reach. We had those big knives like you cut pork chops and stuff. I said, oh I know what Imma do. I’m going get me one of those knives. I said, he probably going to tell me to come sit on his sofa. I got me one of them knives and put it between that pillow and that thing down here. I said, now if he tackles me in here today I’m gonna cut him up. I don’t want to do it. I hope it’s not that. The only thing he said was Mrs. Dixie, I feel you’re the only somebody in here I can talk to, to say to you what I’m gonna say to you. I said, well what are you going to say to me? He said, I’m just so disturbed. He said, me and my wife going to get a divorce. I say, why? What you want to quit your wife for? He said, you know what, when I was small I was raised to believe that Black people was dumb, they didn’t have no sense, you don’t have to pay them any attention and you don’t have to listen to anything they say. That’s how my parents used to teach us about Black folks. He said, but you know what? When they integrated these schools and I had to go to school with some Black folk then. He said, you know how I got my lesson? I said, no. He said, the Black folks, the Black students helped me with my lesson. He said, we had a boy that could do math like I don’t know what. He said, I wasn’t good on math. The English he said was the same





thing. He said, I wasn’t good in that. He said, they just really helped me. They taught me and then I start thinking about this thing, what my parents had told me. [He] said, these people are not like what I was told. He said, they are not crazy and they are sensible. He said, that’s how his wife wanted to raise his kids, to not like Black folks, and that’s what they was going be separated [about]. He said I can’t do it. I just can’t have my children to come up like that. I got to teach them what’s right. I said, well I hope y’all can get it straight. You all need to get on the same step if you got to raise these kids. He said, well Mrs. Dixie I’m trying. He said, she will not do it and my children are not going to come up like that. They finally divorced. He went on to tell me, he said, I read in the paper what you was third vice president–. I said, oh yeah you read right. Whatever you see it’s all right. I said, I did so much work, it didn’t bother me. So I was relieved. I didn’t why he wanted to let all these people leave and just kept me there. I was kind of nervous but he said, you’re the only somebody I could talk to. He said, and too, I’m familiar with Black folks. I like Black folks. There was a girl working there. She was a real nice girl. Before he didn’t know, he didn’t know the girl was married.

He said–I think her name was Annie–and I see you talk to her a lot. He said, you know I like her? I said, no back off! I said, back off! She got a family. She already married. He said, is she married? I say, yes she is married, so you got to back off from that. [Laughter] I said, now I’m not telling you to back off. Now if you go out there if you like a Black woman you find you one with no husband. Don’t bother nobody else’s wife. [Laughter] But you know he was a nice fellow. He was





supervisor. But he and that wife did separate and I guess he raised his children like they needed to be raised.

	O:	It sounds like at the hospital–when you think about segregation and integration you think about water fountains and bus stations, but you don’t often think about a hospital. What you’re saying it that it was segregated like anything else?

	D:	That’s right. Yeah they had Black and White signs up there. They had water fountains. They had those signs up there just like they had anywheres else. Another thing, they had a dining room in there too, but all the White folks had to go to eat and then all the Black folks go to eat. I said, uh-huh this has got to be stopped too. They cut out all that stuff when they integrated. The lady that then was the Director or Nursing, she was just like I said. She was an Army Lieutenant something. She was high up there. She retired out the army and she came out there and she was a nurse too. It didn’t make no difference with her because she had to get her employees right, the White and the Black. She told them, she said, you’re going work here, you’re going to work with everybody. She said, now if you don’t want to work, just like you came in that door, you turn around and go out of it. [Laughter]

	O:	Mrs. Dixie earlier you were talking about Reverend Gooden and Reverend Steele it sounds like Reverend Gooden and Reverend Steele supported the attempt to unionize.

	D:	They did. And Father Brooks and Dr. Aukland. All of them. They did. O:	Why do you think they were so pro-union?





D:  You know what? I think the union liked to fight for salaries against the state. Coming up on my time and on back in there, Black folks was not making the money that White folks make. They paid White people more money–

O:   –for the same job.



	D:	For the same job. That was one of the key things. They are going to work here and they got the same degrees that everybody have. I never will forget Mrs.

Holifield, Millicent Holifield. She was a Black lady. She was out of Massachusetts and they moved down here. Now she was the first one got a–now they had a LPN for White people, but they didn’t have one for Black, and she got it.

O:   The LPN?



	D:	Yeah. She started a school for the Black LPN right out there [inaudible 37:15]. So they honored her about two months ago, I believe. They named that building out there… well, she and the White lady was already out there, but Mrs. Holifield went out there. She was a little lady, but she stood her ground.

	O:	Up until that point they didn’t allow Black women to become LPNs–



	D:	No. They didn’t. We couldn’t even go to the hospital. The doctors–I’m trying to think of the year now, but I know when Dr. Steven came he got to go. He was– you know, Dr. Steven didn’t bite his tongue. He used to cuss them all out. [Laughter]

	O:	Was that Dr. W.F. Stevens?



	D:	Yes, Steven. No, Doctor–He died. He’s been dead. Let me see. I think they was out of Quincy, I believe, because I think his daddy had something like a little





hospital or something. I think they had to close down up there in Quincy. It was bad up there too–

	O:	Oh yeah because Dr. W. S. Stevens was the doctor in Quincy– D:	Yeah that’s one of his sons.

	O:	Ok, so you’re talking about his son though, who from Tallahassee.



	D:	Yeah, when he finished medical school he came here. He had an office over here in Frenchtown. When they integrated, he could go to the hospital. That was a hard time too because they didn’t want that to happen either.

	O:	They didn’t want a Black doctor there?



	D:	No. You know Governor Collins, he was the governor then. That was his last time being governor too. I think they hired him [Dr. Stevens] up there in Washington.

He got a job up in Washington. He was a nice fellow. He just knew it wasn’t right, so he just knew what was the right thing to do. That’s when they started integrating these schools. My children went to Rickards. I had a problem with one of the football coaches out there at Rickards. Sam was a real good football player. He could run. I was sitting up there watching. I was watching. He would let Sam bring the ball when they first get on the field. He would let Sam stand there until he get that ball within close to the goal. He’d take Sam out and put in a White boy so the White boy could make the touchdown. Honey I blasted him. [Laughter] I said, you don’t do that. I said, you are wrong and I’m going to Gainesville on you! He said, Mrs. Dixie don’t! I said, [no.] Better still, I didn’t say nothing. Better still, I went on out there got Sam and them into Florida, I mean FSU. You know, that school that’s out there. That’s where he finished from. He





begged. He said, Mrs. Dixie, please. Sam is one of–and I said, you didn’t act like he was one of the best players you had. I say, I watched this thing. I said, you let that boy get the ball down there where you know they going to make a goal, make a touchdown. Then you take him out and put the White boy out there and you think I’m going to sit up here on these bleachers and take that? Ain’t no way, Mister. [No.] One time we went to Mariana to play. [Laughter] They put Sam in there. Sam got that ball and start running and them White folks [said], stop that nigger! Stop him! Ya’ll better stop that nigger! Ya’ll going to let him make a score! Stop him! They let Sam got all the way. They stopped him. They knocked him out. I bounced off the bleachers and they said, you can’t go out there! I said, I can. That’s my son out there and I’m going. I went right out there on that field. So I told them. I said, Lord, I done been through so much. [Laughter]

O:  Mrs. Dixie the article here in the AFSME newsletter, one of things it says is that you had employees that had attempted to form a union. It says, one attempt by another union failed. Do you remember that? Were you involved in that?

	D:	Yeah. Yes, I do, I remember that. I couldn’t get them to–they wouldn’t do it, it was hard to get people to join unions then, especially if the people that was in charge telling them, you don’t need to join no union, that’s what they used to tell them, but honey I kept on until I got it working.

	O:	Was that other union AFSME?



	D:	I don’t think it was AFSME. I think it was another union. But I was so glad when AFSME came by because, you know, that’s when we got things to rolling. Of course I guess they had gone through so much then they had decided they had





to do something to get some kind of relief. Because it really was kind of rough working out there.

	O:	In this article you say some really interesting things. I’ll read a quote here, it says, Solidarity. We must say it and do it and mean it. We must come back together.

We worked so hard together for so long there’s no reason to stop now. The most important thing is that all public employees get organized in one strong union.

	D:	That’s right.



	O:	Now how do you convince people? Because a lot of people are scared–



	D:	You right, they are scared. But I talked to them, just plain, I say, now look, you all know what you going through out here and what these people will do to you and how they do it. I say, you got to change your attitude. You gonna have to get a union. Because when you get a union, that’s when you negotiate with the state and that’s when you get more money, [Laughter] and you they start thinking bout that and they say, well how do you do that? I say well you know, you get your delegates, you get somebody, if you can do it, and go to the meeting that’s what you have to do, negotiate. And they got willing to do it and they start getting these little raises and raises and people start getting more money and they can start taking care of their family better and you know. I say see, you got to do better than this and you can buy you a car and buy you a home just like anybody else. And they fell for it and you know. But we soon eradicated and closed that out. When they brought in the retarded–some of those people had born with defects but they got good brains–some of them couldn’t stretch out their legs. All kind of stuff had happened to them. Because I had one tell me, she said, Mrs.





Dixie, I said what do you want? She said, I like your hair. I want me a afro but I don’t want to be Black. [Laughter] And I told her I said, well you know what you can get you get you a afro and you won’t be Black. And sure enough we got her a afro and she wasn’t Black. [Laughter]

	O:	Mrs. Dixie one thing that you say in this article, and I think this is interesting because it seems to be contradicting what you said earlier but in a way it works together, I’ll read it to you. It says, dissension is not always bad–now before here you were talking about solidarity, but you say here–dissension is not always bad, no matter what kind of organization you have, even in church, there will be some people pulling the other way. We’ve just got to accommodate them and keep going and keep telling all the people how much they need the union. So it sounds to me you were able to work with people who didn’t necessarily agree.

	D:	That’s right. Because some of them wouldn’t budge, but when I got through to them they came on and joined and we did pretty good. But they were trying to get rid of me, because they thought if they got rid of me that’d be the end of the union, but I don’t think it would’ve happened. Even if they had fired me, I don’t think they would have let it go down.

	O:	It seemed like it was a strong effort at that time? D:	Um-hm.

	O:	Who were some of the other key people who were involved in the organizing? Oh lord, the lady is name is Barnes, some of a lot of the people are dead, there was Barnes and Rosalie Wade. It was a whole lot of them. I just done forgot some of them names. I saw one of the ladies the other day–Viola Jones, and it’s





just you know. People was just working there and they was kind of scared of the union. They had heard, well you know my cousin told me don’t join because I’ll probably get fired. I said, no, I said you got to do things for yourself. You got to join and see for yourself. You just gotta talk them into it. I had good response.

	O:	Did the people who were involved in the union, Mrs. Dixie, had a lot of them been involved in the earlier civil rights activities?

	D:	Not really. Because some people was in the union they didn’t particularly join with civil rights, but what they would do, because some of those people wasn’t gonna stand up and be hit–[Laughter] Because I know a lot of them, they know Reverend Steele, they tell him, Reverend Steele, I will do what you want me to do, but I ain’t no–You gonna tell me, somebody gonna come up and hit me or spit on me and throw–and I gotta stand there and take it? He said, yeah, you don’t supposed to fight back. He said I tell you what, I just support ya’ll with some money, because I ain’t gonna let no body do that to me now. And they did that.

You know they would pay them money and if they had anything like a group of people you wanna feed, they bring food and all those kinds of stuff. But they weren’t gonna get out there because honey some of those people they used to drag you, on the ground. I know, one afternoon we was marching right down there on Monroe street, and that was in the afternoon and I had Sam and Dwayne both with me. Sam was the oldest. And we marching up the street behind Patricia Due, you know we had to support her, because they drug her around like I don’t know what and put that stuff in her eyes, that’s why she can’t





see. He came up to me and he got this sticks or what they have on their side some time–

	O:	The police officer?



	D:	Yeah, he pulled this thing out and he–I looked at him right in his eye and I said, now what are you supposed to do with what you got there outta your pocket? I just double dare you to hit me, or either one of my kids. I say, we are not doing anything to anybody. We just marching. I said, now I dare you to hit me or my kids and I knew you bet not hit my kids you will be sorry. I said, so you put your stick back on your side and get on down that street. And he did, he turned red as I don’t know what but he did. Boy we had some hard times, but we made it.

	O:	You mentioned earlier about the salary gains that you were able to make with the union. What kind of difference did it make on the every day workroom? Or did it make a difference?

	D:	Well–you don’t call them CNAs–they were nurse’s assistants then. They had LPN, they had nurses, and they had–Now Dean used to help the doctor when he was doing surgery, and they had people like that–and therapy maybe. Now Carla worked in therapy. Now you know she was a good therapist, she was Black, she was not making what the White therapists made–

	O:	–doing the same job.



	D:	–doing the same job. And that just the way it go. Now it was White CNAs, White nurses aids, but I wasn’t making what the White ones made. That’s just the way they used to do. RN, the Black RNs weren’t making what the White RNs made. The nurses had their own unions. But it changed. Their salaries changes so I





guess that’s why they say they closed W.T. Edwards I guess they was glad they eradicated that TB. But now the salaries are–

	O:	But then after W.T. Edward closed down you went to work for Sunland.



	D:	Yeah, Sunland. Now Sunland was the retarded–A lot of them was not retarded, some of them was, they was just deformed.

	O:	But you kept the union contract with Sunland? D:	Uh huh.

	O:	Was that a different facility?



	D:	No, it was the same facility. I wish you could see what–they got condominiums and everything they done built that place up. They got pretty out there. Because they closed that up and they sent these clients somewhere else. I was almost retired. I worked about a month and a half before my 30 years was up. I went down there to one of those buildings. We had to take an examination and everything and I said, Lord, I might as well be going back to school. The lady called me down there and I didn’t know nobody and I knew I had to take that test. But they was getting people jobs and I went out there to get a job and she comes telling me, I say, well what’s the salary down here? And she say, it’s 300 and something, and I say, oh no that’s not a job for me. Because I have a little over a month and a half before I retired that ain’t a salary for me. I be losing money. But I tell you what you do. Go up there on campus because there are a lot of students that can work this job part time and you hire them students because they need the work. And said, Mrs. Dixie you made such good scores on your





test so we would have been so happy to have you. I said, you know I appreciate that. I said, but I made good grades all through school. [Laughter]

	O:	So you worked about almost 30 years?



	D:	I had about a month and a half and I went up there to Chattahoochee. And the funny about going to Chattahoochee–

	O:	That was a state mental hospital?



	D:	That was a state mental hospital but it was a state hospital just like these were state hospitals. So they thought, oh they bringing these people in here to take our jobs. Nobody gonna take your jobs. Now I had a niece that worked out there, and my daughter worked out there a while, because she was a nurse too. So they went on over there to Chattahoochee earlier. I say, well I let that be my last result, and I did. I went on over there and made my month and a half and I say, I’m full retired. They say, Mrs. Dixie you can’t retire, and I said, wait a minute here. You don’t tell me what I can’t do. Yeah but you ain’t quite old enough to get social security and I said, who worrying about social security? I say, I’m retiring from the state job. I have been for the state thirty years and I’m gone. They said Mrs. Dixie please don’t. I say, wait a minute, I done told you, you don’t tell me when to retire. I say, that’s my job, when I’m going to retire. And I ran around there with them. I put in for me, I had a whole lot of time. I had myself and my friend and my daughter round there. My daughter had got us a trip to Hawaii and we went over to Hawaii and stayed about two or three weeks. I came on back and then when I came back I went up there again and threw that thing on them. I said, now you take it or you leave it. I am leaving this place. They say, Mrs. Dixie





you don’t– and I say, look, let me tell you something, these women before me done already gone–because that lady that was working with me. I say, she already retired. I say, are you all crazy over here? I done worked with these people so long, you crazy? I say, I am retiring. I’m going home. They say, but I just thought you wanna–I say, I don’t wanna work. I done work thirty years. And I had a ring up with them over there to get them to–

	O:	Why didn’t they want you to retire?



	D:	I don’t know they didn’t want me–talking bout, you such a good employee. I say, I can’t help that. I’m good everywhere I go. I’m going do my work. But I say, I got to leave now. I’m tired I just don’t wanna work no more. And I had to talk at them like I don’t know what. They say, we got to give you–and I say, don’t give me nothing, you don’t make up no kind of nothing for me, I just want to go. And I just left.

	O:	Do you remember your last day of work?



	D:	Yeah I remember my last day of work was when I came they was having this bloody Sunday march in Selma, Alabama.

	O:	Wow.



	D:	And Reverend Gooden say, we going over there. I say, Me too. Y’all ain’t gonna leave me. And I told them; I say, I’m going now, I’m getting bout 10 days off of my own dear time I got to plan it and I went on to Selma myself.

	O:	Oh that was the anniversary march? D:	Uh huh yeah, and I went on myself.

	O:	Wow. Now were you still president of the local then?





	D:	No see they already had a union over there– O:	At Chattahoochee?

	D:	Uh huh.



	O:	So it was a different local–



	O:	So that’s why this one resolved here, and we were going over to Chattahoochee.



You know I was under that one over there and I think Janet.…was Janet the president of that union over there then? I think so but I’m not so sure. I went to work so I was under that union over there until I left but I didn’t stay there very long. I just couldn’t handle going in the door and I got to lock the door behind myself and here I’m locked up in here with these people. It was some terrible people over there, murderers and crazy people and dope addicts and everything. But you know the only problem I had over there was one guy and I don’t know why that boy didn’t like me for nothing he would cuss me out every day. And I say, you know I couldn’t say nothing to this fella and that went on about I bet you–just I was just fixing to leave there and I went there one morning and I say yeah here we go I’m feeling to get cursed out. I opened the door here he standing up there and he say, Mrs. Dixie. And he said, Mrs. Dixie. And I said, what did you say? And he say, Mrs. Dixie I speaking to you. How you doing this morning? I say, fine, but how are you doing? He say, I’m doing fine. I say, you mean to tell me you not gonna cuss me out? He say, me? Cuss you out? And I say, yeah. I say, that’s what you did to me every day I was here, just about. I say, I fixing to retire now. He say, Mrs. Dixie I ain’t never cuss you out. He say, you mean somebody cuss you out, a nice lady like you. I say, oh my God let me





leave this boy alone before he go off. I say, that’s alright we friends now so lets go like that. And we got to be friends. Then there was a lieutenant or colonel or something had a son. He was a dope addict. And he was so rude to people, you know he was really rude. They couldn’t get him to do nothing. You won’t tell me what to do, my dad is a colonel, or whatever he would say. So he got to me one day I say, let me tell you something. I have listened to you round here, abuse these people. That’s just what you doing. I say, but you not gonna do me like that. I say, boy I will ring your neck. He say, Mrs. Dixie what did you say? I say, I will ring your neck. You know what, I can hit you one lick and kill you. I say, I am a black belt karate and you better stay out of my way or be nice to me. And he say, oh my God. And he got so quiet. And he went back down the hall. I was listening there, and he say, ya’ll see that lady there? That Mrs. Dixie? He was telling another client. He said, don’t bother that woman. That woman is a black belt karate and she’ll kill you. Ain’t know nothing. So I told my coworker, I say, you heard that you’ll better watch my back because I know nothing about the karate. The boy just start laughing he couldn’t stop. He say, Mrs. Dixie you–I say, no siree I don’t know one thing about the karate. But I meant to stop that guy over there because he abuse to many people here with his words. He said, Ms. Dixie– I said, you better watch my back. Now if somebody come at me you better come help me. [Laughter] And you know what, he got to be calmed down just as good. I had no more trouble with him he was just as nice, and he was nice to them to. I said, see you got to use some kind of psychology on these people, some kind of way. And there was a guy that had killed somebody. Seemed to be





a nice fella, and they say, Mrs. Dixie I think he killed somebody? And I say, well why don’t you ask him? And they say, no Lord we scared. And so I went in there and we got to talking to him one day and I say, how long you been in here? And he told me, and he’d been there long time, a good while. And I say, well why are you here? He say, well, this is where they brought me. And I say well what did you do? I said, did you kill somebody? He say, I believe I did, yeah I kill somebody. And I say, that’s why you here. He say, yes ma’am that’s why I’m here. I say, but you know what, that was not a nice thing to do, but you can get yourself straight you can resolve yourself. I said, you ever been to church or anything like that? Maybe you need to go to church and listen to the people talk about the bible and things and you should not kill anybody, I say, because you can’t give a life, that’s taking a life and you can’t–and I just sit on down and talk to him and he was just as nice as he could be. He sure was. And he finally left, I don’t know where he went, but he finally left. So I guess he kind of got himself together. And there was another one there that guy told them, he say, I cannot leave here. I know you all got me a place to stay but I am not ready to do that yet. He say, I just feel like if I stay here a little longer–and they just came right on ahead and got that boy an apartment. You know what he did? He went and got a gun and blew his brains out. I say, golly, didn’t you all hear what the man said he wasn’t ready to leave, keep him here a little longer? You sent the man out there to kill himself and that’s just what he did. I hope those people’ll sue your socks off. [Laughter] But I was so glad. I didn’t want to do that kind of work, not over there.





	O:	Ms. Dixie, when you starting organizing through AFSME, did you know that AFSME had been involved with Dr. King, or Dr. King had been involved with AFSME at the Memphis Sanitation Strike?

	D:	I think so, yeah, because you know my pastor and King was just like that– O:	Very close?

	D:	Yeah, very, very close. He the one that really help him organize and they really wanted him to be the president. Reverend Steele told him, no, you give it to Martin, let Martin be president.

	O:	Oh president of SCLC?



	D:	Yeah that’s when they set up SCLC. So you know, Reverend Steele and Reverend King was really close. Because I used to go with him from here to over in Atlanta a lot of times to go to King’s house. You see I knew him and his children like that. It was with King’s kids.

	O:	And I knew AFSME had been involved in a hospital campaign, I was reading about this not too long ago, in South Carolina. That after Dr King was assassinated, Coretta Scott King went with AFSME and they tried to organize a big hospital in Charleston.

	D:	Um-hm. Yeah, I didn’t go to that. But she did. She tried to do a lot of things until she got sick.

O:  In all those years, Mrs. Dixie, I know you were involved in SCLC, working with NAACP, how were you able to do all of those things and raise a family and be involved in all of these organizations?





	D:	Well, I had a good husband. [Laughter] Sammy can do anything I can do because he could cook, he could wash, he could iron, and you know what he could do that I couldn’t do? He could sew, because he made me a dress.

	O:	He did? [Laughter] I didn’t know Mr. Dixie could sew–



	D:	I could not sew, but he could. Now see his aunt raised him and she taught him everything. She taught him how to sew [Laughter] and he was a good cook, he could clean the house, wash. In fact, I couldn’t even iron because when me and Sammy got married, Sammy used to liked to wear white shirts. And I would iron this white shirt. Sammy looked at that shirt, he said, Laura. If you wash them just wash them, I’ll iron them. [Laughter] But I had a sister work up there do them laundry, and she used to do them sometimes but Sammy could iron and I could never iron a really good shirt and today I don’t like to iron. I do not like to iron. But Sammy could do it all, Sammy did. Ms. Knox raised him well–because, he could cook. Sammy could cook cakes as good as I can. Now I could cook cakes, but Sammy could cook all that stuff. Yes, sir, he sure did. He used to get that old machine right round there in that hall, and it’ll run nice. That’s the kind they used to use way back there they do like this–

	O:	Oh the pedal? The sewing pedal?



D:  Uh-huh, he know how to sew on that machine, because that’s how he made the dress, on that machine. But I like the one which you run by–you know you have to plug in–but I never sew, I still can’t sew.

O:  You know I don’t think I’ve ever asked this Mrs. Dixie, but how did the two of you meet, originally?





	D:	Where did I meet Sammy? I think I was–oh I was going to work one day, and I guess he was going to work too. And I was going up to catch the bus and that’s the time he was working at Capital City Bank and he was walking to Capital City Bank. And we just started talking from then on. We just, start meeting and talking and that’s how we was going–each one of us was going to work.

	O:	Where were you working at that time? Were you at the hospital?



	D:	No. I was working for a lady, some Greek people, and they had this little girl, and they wanted me to keep their little girl. They used to try to make me–I said, no ma’am I’m not going to take your child home with me. You going keep your child here with you. They wanted me to bring the child home with me and she was real attached to me. I could keep her all night. I said, unh-uh, na I done kept her until you got here, so you keep your own child. [Laughter]

	O:	They just wanted you to take her home–



	D:	She told me they was from Greece. They said, when we get that–and she used to call me Mighty Laura–she said, we going to Greece and we want to take you when we go. I said, well you tell me when you’re going but I probably won’t be going. I said, no I ain’t gonna go over there. You might get me over there and not bring me back. [Laughter] I ain’t go with them nowhere. But they was real nice people because they used to run a restaurant uptown, on that corner. And you know they didn’t know anything about Ku Klux Klan and that kind of stuff. And the Ku Klux Klan came marching down the street and he–ooh that man got so upset– till he start talking to us in Greece, I say, you know what? You need to calm down, because we don’t know what you saying you speaking to us in Greek. We





speak English! English! English! I keep telling him that until he kind of realized what I was talking about, and he had to start speaking in English. But they likely scared him to death, because he hadn’t seen them Ku Klux Klan with them things on–

	O:	Oh, they had their robes on and everything?



	D:	Yeah, them eyes had them things around it. And two, he was run that restaurant, nice restaurant, I think it was Artie Shaw came out here to FSU. I think that’s what that band director was named. He had some Black musicians with him, and the people was in there eating and they chose that restaurant to eat. And boy when he came in there with that band and them Black folks, boy you should have seen them White folks. They got so uncomfortable, and some of them did leave and so they told him, we ain’t used to no–you got to let them Black folks leave.

And he said, now let me tell you all something. If you wanna eat here you can eat here, he said. But the band ain’t going nowhere, because they supposed to eat here and they going to eat here. He said, I don’t care if they Black, green, striped, they going to stay right here and eat. And then some of them calmed down and sat down and finished eating, but some of them left.

	O:	That was at the Greek restaurant? D:	Uh-huh, yeah.

	O:	Do you remember what that restaurant was called Mrs. Dixie? D:	What was that thing called? I forgot that too–

	O:	This was sometime maybe in the [19]60s?



	O:	Yeah, it was way back, it was right on that corner.





	O:	Was it after the bus boycott?



	D:	No, that was before the bus boycott. O:	Okay.

	D:	Um-hm but you see, you know when they bring those things like that to FSU, they usually have some Black folks with them, like a band or something like that. But honey they did not want them people in that restaurant because the band in there, because some of the musicians were Black. But that man told them, if ya’ll want to go you go because the band ain’t going nowhere. [Laughter] And they sit down and they ate. The next day, he could talk about the Ku Klux Klan, the next day. He said, what in the world were they doing?! Why they do that?! I said, they hang Black folks. [Laughter] And he was so out done, he didn’t know what to do. He said, they do what?! And I said, they hang Black folks. They’ll hang White folks too if they think the White folks like Black folks, you know. They probably wasn’t gonna bother you, because you not Black. See, but he was just so upset. He didn’t know what to do I said, y’all just don’t understand.

	O:	Yeah. Mrs. Dixie did life change in Tallahassee after the bus boycott? Or did it seem like it was more of the same?

	D:	Well, now it changed, some things did change, the kids weren’t really–now when you look at that thing you say–but you see, the Black kids couldn’t get no–it had to be integration or they would never get nowhere. They didn’t have the same books. When I was going to school, the books we had, when we got to them they tear a lot of pages out of them and we didn’t know and this is why. You know, I know we had some good teachers, because you know them teachers weren’t





making that much money, but they would go somewhere and buy books. So we could– you know geography and math books and stuff like that. So we could you know, they would buy them, and they taught us well but they had torn most of the pages out of the books.

	O:	Now you were getting used books from the White schools–



	D:	From the White schools, when the White children used them and then they’d send them to us.

	O:	But they would tear out– D:	They’d tear out the pages O:	Just to be mean–

	D:	Um-hm. To be mean, they’d tear the pages out. That’s what upset Betty, my daughter, one day. She was walking and she found this English book, and she was in the eleventh grade too, and she had never seen this book. Boy she hit the ceiling. She said, I’m in the eleventh grade and I never had a book like this. And that’s when me and Reverend Steele went to and got them–went to the school board–

	O:	What was the difference with the book she found?



	D:	It wasn’t– she had never seen the book before, she was in the eleventh grade. But they wasn’t putting them books in the Black schools, they was just putting them in the White schools. They was putting a different put in the Black schools because see the Black schools, and I mean that’s when she was coming along, and she finished in what–I guess that was in the [19]60s or something, because she was in the eleventh grade and she had never seen a book like that–





	O:	It might have been more advanced?



	D:	It was it. It was a better book than what they got, and that’s just the way it was. They just were not putting the stuff in the Black schools because you know what we used to have to do? We used to have these little heaters, I don’t know if you ever seen them, they call them “red hot heaters.” You put the wood in there, they get red hot and then they put out the heat. We had to go out–we had a lot of wood around, and we went out and got the wood and put it in the stove. That’s the kind of heat we had. Yes, sir. I never road a school bus going to school in my life because we couldn’t ride them because there wasn’t funding for Black folks–

	O:	The buses were for the White students– D:	For the White students.

	(Son’s voice):	I used to have the old books when I was in school, because I remember getting books from other schools.

	D:	Sure did.



	(Son’s voice):	And I know that was in the [19]60s–



	D:	Yeah, it was back then, because you know she was old long before she was ahead of you all in school but that’s right. And another thing, just like you get these part time jobs that’ll make you some money. What they used to tell you, was you have to come in the back door, but this lady came in and ask my mama, when they get out of school on weekends can they come in here and help me do– and she say, it’s okay that my kids going to work for you, but my children are not going in your backdoor.

	O:	Your mother said that?





	D:	That’s what she told this lady. If they can’t come in the front door they not coming and you don’t feed them on the back porch. If you give them a sandwich or something, you don’t feed them on the back porch, they going eat from your table. And that’s what she did, and you know they was nice people until– Now my other sisters worked up there and then when I came along and I went up there to work but I didn’t like– they scared me to death. Because one Friday, I think it was on a Friday. I forgot what day it was but her husband–and I didn’t know he would do that– that man came in there drunk, and some of the people that stay around there say he did her like that anyway when he get drunk. And he jumped on that lady and he was just beating that lady. I had remembered reading the newspaper. We used to get the Pittsburg Courier. I remember reading, and I never forgot it, where the man came in and killed his wife and the maid. And I thought about that and I said, well they won’t kill me here because when I get a chance to get out this back door– They had some big oak trees I went down there and stood behind that oak tree and every chance I got I moved from one oak tree to the other until I got to the road. And honey when I hit that road, I started running home [Laughter]. I went over there and told my mama. I said, I was never going back there again and she said, you don’t have to. But she was nice to us, we would never–if we had to eat a sandwich we would sit right at that table with them and my mama told them–and that was way back there. My mama, she would tell us things. She say, I don’t care what they tell you. You got to remember, I don’t care how White they are, I don’t care what color they are, they are not any better than you. You are just as good as anybody else. She





used to tell us that all the time, and I guess that’s what that got down in my brain. When we were going to school up there, we would finish grades–you go as far as the eighth grade. When you go up to ninth grade, then you have to come up to Lincoln, you know you have to come uptown and go to school. Well we had this teacher, and she asked us, you all ever have a graduation when you finish going to another school? I said, no, we’ve never done that, She said, well I’m going to have y’all one. We going to town. I’m gonna get you all some white dresses. We going to have us a good going away party. We going to invite parents and all that kind of stuff. And she took us up there to Devo’s, that was the name of the store. She went in there and she said, you all stand out here on the sidewalk till I get back. She was in there and found the dresses and told the lady, how many dresses she wanted, I think it was five or something like that. She said, they told her, oh no, they can’t try on no dresses. You can try on the dresses for them but she thought the teacher was White, but she was not White. She was a light- skinned Black lady. Honey that lady came out there, and we didn’t know– we thought somebody had jumped on her in there. She came out there crying. Anne Neilson, I will never forget her name, and she was just crying. We say, what’s the matter? What did they do to you on in there? And she got herself together and she said, y’all just be quiet there for a while. And then we say, we wanna go in there and jump on them. We was ready to fight them. [Laughter] She say, no we not going to do that. They told me that I had to try on the dresses for you all you all couldn’t try the dresses on. And she was just so upset, she was just really upset. They told her. I stopped every Black person I saw going in that store I tried





turning them around. I did turn them around some of them, one store I never did go, I said they can’t give me nothing in there; never went in that store.

O:  It was called Devo’s? D:   Um-hm. Never went in.

O:  That’s interesting. Mrs. Dixie, when you were involved– one of the things I found– one of the documents you had given me when we had done the earlier interviews was a paper from Bethel Baptist Church and it was something that you and Mr.

Dixie had talked to me about when we had done the interview in 1994. And it was a set of rules that the Board of Deacons were trying to impose on Reverend Steele. Do you remember that? And what had happened around that and how that had come to be?

	D:	Yes, yes, I know what happened with it. Sammy wasn’t there when they first brought the thing up to me. Sammy came in and they gave him a piece of paper and Sammy looked at it. I said, oh my goodness, I think Sammy had had something to drink but he wasn’t drunk. Sammy looked at that paper, and he say, now what do you all think you’re going to do with this? I said, oh my God he’s feeling to cuss. [Laughter] But he didn’t say that. He changed and said, what you going do with this mess? He said, you might as well tear it up because it ain’t going nowhere, he broke it up, he sure did. He surely did.

	O:	Was he already on the Board of Deacons by then?



	D:	No, Sammy has never been a deacon he was a trustee, yeah, Reverend Steele tried to get him to be a deacon but he said uh-uh you don’t want be to be no





deacon. But he was a trustee. Yes, sir. I know you got to have somebody stop these people here.

	O:	But this was something that the deacons had imposed on Reverend Steele to get him to stop from getting so involved in the movement?

	D:	That’s right, they did not want him to do it. But he did it anyway. I don’t care what they say because he did it. Because he used to go up and when Reverend Steele come back he would have quite a bit of money and they say–and he say, no this money is not for the church, it’s for the inter-civic council, SCLC and that’s where it going. That’s what he give it for.

	O:	In later years, you played a leadership role in the SCLC too yourself, right? D:	Yeah, I did pretty good work for SCLC.

	O:	Do you still do work with them?



	D:	Sort of because they kind of got a interim president now because they got rid of Steele–I haven’t found yet– because he was a good man, Steele, Charles Steele. He came to them and he say, y’all came to me, whether you know it or not. They got this building up there in Atlanta. That’s their headquarters. He’s the one that got it, and it’s paid for and I don’t know what happened. But they really need to do some reorganizing because the man they got as the Chairman of the Board, he just not need to be Chairman of the Board and I don’t know why they just can’t put him on out of there– but they kind of, you know–

	O:	Mrs. Dixie for you, what were some of your most exciting or memorable moments in the movement days?





	D:	Now I tell you one thing that’s exciting to me and that’s when we went to Forsyth, Georgia. Now that was the exciting thing because I tell you I really didn’t know…I mean I know people hate Black people but them people were exceedingly cruel. [Laughter] But they had one couple there. It was a man, his wife, and they had two kids and you could tell they were not with the crowd because they was standing by theyself. And every Black person they see, they say–they do that– and they say, I’m with you.

	O:	With the peace sign?



	D:	Yeah. And but they gave those people some– Now nobody got out of order. Now that’s the one thing, because there was a lot of people there, a lot of Black people. But there was a lot of then Ku Klux Klan too. Now they was the ones that got put in jail, Ku Klux Klan.

	O:	Now the SCLC had organized this, it was an anti-Klan march?



	D:	Yeah because you know Forsyth, Georgia was supposed to be that bad place. They run all the niggers away from there. But after that, Oprah went there for a show and it was kind of terrible over there. But nobody got arrested, everybody was just as nice– And they say you all can go in places and drink water but don’t get out of place with nobody. They might call you all kind of things, and they did, but everybody lay calm. That was the most– I really didn’t know people could call you some things I had never heard before–

	O:	And that was in the [19]80s too–



	D:	Uh-huh. It was [inaudible 1:31:50] and I say, oh boy.





	O:	When you look back on it now, Mrs. Dixie, and I know we’ve talked about this before, young people, high school kids, college students even, don’t seem to know that much about the movement. I mean, how do we reach them? How do we teach them about all those experiences, all those lessons?

	D:	Now I used to go from school to school, that’s one thing I did. Oh boy I just had to stop, it was really wearing me out. I was so shocked you would be surprised some kids they did not know who Martin Luther King was, they didn’t even know who Reverend Steele was. I said, you’re not going sit here and tell me your parents have not–they said, Mrs. Dixie you telling us the first thing I ever heard about Martin Luther King. I said, you mean to tell me your parents haven’t told you anything about Martin Luther king? They said, no this is the first time we heard anything and we don’t know who Reverend Steele is– I said, Reverend Steele– you can walk to Tallahassee and you mean to tell me you never – and they said no, and round here it’s the same way. There was a whole lot of these children. So that’s why I carried– everything I carried, picture book, anything I got I carried it so they could see it. But I told him I said, you need to go home and ask your parents some questions because they should’ve told you everything they know about this movement because it was in the paper, it was in broadcast it was on TV and you should know something about it. But a lot of them didn’t know anything. They sure didn’t and they wanted to know, anything they could find out about Martin Luther King. They wanted to know.

	O:	Why do you think that there’s been that short circuiting of memory?





	D:	I don’t know, you know what I think, I really think when they got integrated the schools and not have to hide people. I think that kind of threw some people off, I think they thought well, we done made it now because when I got in the courthouse I see Black folks. When I go in the police department I see– everywhere we go we see Black people working, and I guess a lot of people thought they had really made it. I say, no you all haven’t made it yet. I said, because you know, it’s just not over, it just is not over, because you still be surprised at how some of these teachers get laid off and all that kind of stuff. I don’t know maybe if that had just said every school got to have same curriculum, like the same books, maybe it would have been different. I say, I don’t know if it would be different or not because they was gonna find a way still not to give you the right books.

	O:	Oh if schools would have stayed separate but they would have had the same curriculum?

	D:	Yeah, but I don’t think it was gonna work like that it might have been, they said maybe it could have been separate and then equal. I say, it might have been but I don’t see it like that because they was gonna still find a way to keep it from you. But I don’t know.

	O:	So you see some of the big challenges and inequalities today, a lot of them really revolve around education still?

	D:	Yeah, I think everybody ought to get– now you know, education is one of the things I really believe in because if it ain’t nothing but going to the library getting you a trade, at least you got something and you got a certificate to show the way





you finish. Of course they might be like my son don’t do that. You won’t believe he got his automechanic. He got his certificate he went up there and printed– [Laughter]

	(Son’s voice):	Now that’s not me.



	D:	I’m talking about the other one. I ain’t talking about him. [Laughter] And he’s a number one CAN. Everybody, these nurses trying to get him back, but he just don’t wanna do that. But now he been up there at A&M a long time in that dining hall. But they been trying to get him back to Miracle here, and one of nurses went out of business. That lady call me one day and she said, Mrs. Dixie is there any way you could get him to come back? I say, no ma’am. She say, he is the best worker I ever had and I been in this business a long time. She was the director of the nursing but it went out of business. She say, I’ve never had an employer like him. I said, but I can’t get him to come back [Laughter] if you can’t get him to come back. And Dwayne is good with electronic stuff too you wouldn’t believe that either because he wouldn’t bother with it.

	O:	A talented family. D:	Yes, sir.

	O:	Well I know Mrs. Dixie I’ve taken up a lot of your time today. D:	Well I’ve gotten a chance to sit down.

	O:	Okay [Laughter]. Is there anything else you’d like to say that you didn’t get a chance to talk about?

	D:	I really just think…you know another thing that bothers me about the people. This community around here, I don’t know what these people think, I don’t know





whether they think– because I heard the NAACP was having its 100th anniversary. And they were saying the NAACP needs to just close down and I said, no siree, they don’t need to close down. Why they gonna close down? I say, you still need the NAACP, you need the SCLC, you need all these organizations. I say, they don’t need to close down, because people can reverse on you. I know that. You know now not too long ago I had identity theft.

Somebody went in my account and took my money and Sammy went with me to the bank to try to trace it. And the boy was doing a good job by tracing it but I think they realized what he was doing. They was switching him from person to person and he say, they made this check off the computer and it had on the check, you do not have to endorse the cash. And they tried to cash that check two times, two times they wouldn’t cash it for them. The next time, I don’t know whether they got a new employer or not, they cashed that check and that’s why they got my money. And you know when you get old, your money, that’s the money you pay your bills with. So I had paid–I had stayed up all night and I said, I’m gonna find this check because I know it’s here and I kept on I found the check. It was a check I had wrote, Talquin Electric that’s the lights out there in the country come from Talquin Electric and it was wrote in, I believe, July 2008 and that’s the check they used. So I had to go down there to pay the lady, I wouldn’t mail them money. The next bill I went down there and pay them and she was gonna tell me Mrs. Dixie, we got to charge you….Now that bill I paid for what they got the check off of it was $1,700 and something. So she said, well this other bill is kind of–I say, now what do you think when you have identity theft and





somebody get all your money out the bank? Now what you gonna pay your bills with? She say, we gonna have to charge you 27 dollars and I say 27 dollars for what? For late fees. It just so happened I had put that check in my pocket and I pulled that check out and said, look at this check. This is where somebody took my money. Her eyes stretched so big and I said, lady, I tell you something, I’m not a violent lady, but I’m just now fixing to come across this counter to get you because you know I’m not going to pay you 27 dollars talking about no late fee, and somebody took all my money out the bank. She said, oh Mrs. Dixie I’m so sorry, I’m so sorry, I’m so sorry. I say, well I accept your apology but your making me a violent woman here because I’m fixing to come over here and I don’t fight, but I’m feeling to come over and jump on you because you know I’m not going to pay you no 27 dollars for late fees and she say, oh no Mrs. Dixie, I understand now I understand. So you know, I pretty well got it worked out now I hope. I went around there today and called for my print out. They say, Ms. Dixie you still– I said, yeah I ain’t gonna be bit like I was before. I’m just gonna to keep up with it because you know what I start to do? I did, I do like mama did take my money put it in a can and put it in the ground somewhere. I say, because I am not gonna go through this. And I had a washing machine, and the two men bought the washing machine and we started talking about it and they say, you wait a minute you mean to say– I had the same thing happen to me. It was a Black one and White one and both of them had their money taken by identity theft but this White man say they got about $4,000 off of him. They didn’t get that much off of me and they didn’t get that much off that Black, but they got all my bill money the





money. I got to pay my bills with… But I really don’t know, which way we going, maybe if these peoples just realize, if they just understand. I don’t know, it’s a whole lot of people just really don’t like Obama, these White–they do not like Obama and I don’t know why and he got so much patience with them. But they just have got to learn, you know, White people, they got to give up some power they just can’t stay in power all the time. It got to be somebody else sometime. So, I don’t know when they gonna learn that. Maybe you all see it. I might not see it. Maybe you all will see it.

[End of recording]





	Audit edited by:	Justin Dunnavant



	Final edited by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019