AAHP 083; Russ; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 083 Alma Russ

African American History Project (AAHP) Interview conducted by Andre Everette on June 17, 2010

36 minutes | 19 pages



Abstract: Alma Russ describes growing up in Gainesville, Florida, including weekly routines and leisure activities like watching baseball games or going to Silver Springs. She also describes what it was like to grow up under Jim Crow segregation, and how it impacted her mother in the workforce, and the family’s entertainment options in terms of things like movie theaters. She also discusses her experiences in Lincoln High School, including some of her favorite memories and people who influenced her. After graduating, she worked at the Federal Bureau of Investigations in Washington DC for three months, after which, fed up with city life, she moved back to Gainesville. She also describes attending Florida A&M University for a while before returning to Gainesville and working at the sheriff’s office until she retired. She expresses regret that Lincoln closed, and offers some thoughts on the current state of race relations in Gainesville.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Lincoln High School]









































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 083

Interviewee: Alma Russ Interviewer: Andre Everette Date: June 17, 2010



	E:	Hello, I’m Andre Everette and today is June 16th. I’m with Alma Russ, a former student at Lincoln Ross. Hi Alma, how are you?

	R:	Lincoln High.



	E:	Lincoln High. [Laughter] At Lincoln High. How are you doing? R:	Doing just fine.

	E:	Okay so before we begin, we did the Deed of Gift form and I’ll remind you that I’m just asking a few questions about your experiences at Lincoln High, and that if you need to stop the interview at any time you know just let me know and we can start back.

	R:	Okay.



	E:	And also, if I ask you anything that you don’t want to answer, you have the right to do so.

	R:	Okay.



	E:	Okay so first a little background information. Can you start by spelling your name and give me your date of birth please.

	R:	Alma A-L-M-A, middle initial B like in Boy, Russ R-U-S-S. Date of birth is January 2nd, 1951.

	E:	Okay, and are you originally from Gainesville?



	R:	I was born in Georgia but I’ve lived in Gainesville all my life. E:	Okay and what about your parents?

	R:	My parents are from Alabama.



	E:	Okay, could you give me their names please?





	R:	Ulysec and Tinnie Russ.



	E:	Would you mind spelling that?



	R:	Tinnie, T-I-N-N-I-E, and Ulysec U-L-Y-S-E-C Russ, R-U-.S-S.



	E:	Okay and where is your mom from? R:	They’re both from Alabama.

	E:	Both from Alabama. And how did they meet?



	R:	I guess they knew each other in Alabama because my daddy came to Florida first, and then he went back to Alabama.

	E:	What about siblings?



	R:	I have a brother in Miami who’s older. I have a half-brother in Texas and a half- sister in Alabama and they’re all older.

	E:	So tell me a little bit about the neighborhood you grew up in.



	R:	The neighborhood I grew up in was off of 8th Ave to Duval area. It was basically family-oriented. It was one of the first housing developments for Blacks.

Everybody was attentive to everybody else’s house and raised everybody else’s children. We all worked from house to house and we played together very well. We knew who’s house to go in and who house not to go in. Yes you did, you didn’t go in everybody house and you didn’t play with everybody’s children. So we just had our own little group in—my aunt of course lived right across the street and right around the corner so you know what not to do and what to do because you would be in trouble. So it was just a little quiet group.

	E:	Okay and what was a typical weekend like for you growing up?





	R:	Growing up a typical weekend was do your chores, you had definitely Saturday chores and maybe a movie and of course going to church on Sunday and Sunday afternoon we would go for a ride. Maybe sometime we would go out of town to maybe a baseball game or a football game. My mother loved baseball so sometimes we would go to Jacksonville to a baseball game or Jacksonville to a football game. Back then Silver Springs was hot, and we’d go to Silver Springs. So we did something on Sunday afternoon as a family.

	E:	Okay, and what would you say were some of your family values? Like what were some things that your parents stressed?

	R:	Basically that we got along, respected each other. We kinda like a lot of love. We definitely had to respect each other’s property and space, but that would be in the property. Just kind of being together, doing things together. We had a lot of together time.

	E:	Okay, so you mentioned Sundays. Did your family go to church? R:	Yes.

	E:	Okay, what church did you attend?



	R:	Well, that was difficult as my mother was Methodist and my daddy was Baptist so we had a choice of churches and how it go was first started out, my aunt who lived across the street, would take us to the Baptist church when we were small. Then when we got big enough to walk, we went to the Methodist church which was down the street. Then when we got big enough to drive, it was our choice where we wanted to go and I ended up at the Baptist church and my brother ended up at the Methodist church. It was strange. [Laughter]





	E:	Sounds interesting. How were race relations then? And I’m talking about early childhood, maybe-

	R:	Early childhood was very segregated because my mother and father, early childhood, my mother didn’t work but she worked on Sundays cooking for the White people. And then as we got older she started working at the florist, they owned the florist, she started working in the florist and sometimes it would be working late and they would bring her home and it was the backseat ride. Then when we would go to Alabama you would have to go to the Colored bathroom and there was no such thing as a restaurant where you get a hamburger, so we had to pack a lunch. Yes. And if you had to go to the bathroom as a child on the way, you have to stop in the woods. Yes, yes, so we were fortunate enough to have a movie here and we would have our own Rose Theatre, and eventually we started being able to go downtown where there was called the “Florida Theatre.” But we grew up in the Rose Theatre.

	E:	Now I wanna talk about elementary school. What school did you attend? R:	Duval Elementary Grade School.

	E:	Okay, and did you have the same teachers each year or were there different teachers?

	R:	My second-third grade I had the same teacher Ms. Parker and fourth grade I think I still had Ms. Parker then fifth grade I had Ms. McKinnie and the sixth grade I had Ms. Norton.

	E:	Okay and was there any type of like a tracking system, like did you always have classes with the same students or—?





	R:	Yes with the same students.



	E:	With the same students okay. What grade did you go up to there? R:	Sixth grade then seventh grade we went to Lincoln.

	E:	Do you remember when Dr. King was assassinated?



	R:	Yes I was in Home Economics and I was making a blue dress. E:	And how did people in Gainesville react to that?

	R:	Quiet. Gainesville has never been upset as the rioting kind. I don’t care what happened, when it happened, Gainesville was never a rowdy town. It was always quiet.

	E:	And you mentioned traveling to Alabama so were you familiar at the time with the bombing at the Birmingham church that killed the four girls?

R:  Yes, it’s very familiar. Because things in Alabama kind of touch me, because you know, my whole family is basically from Alabama. Somewhere in Alabama. I was just very heartbreaking, it was heartbreaking.

E:   Were you concerned that could happen here in Gainesville?



	R:	Anywhere and it still bothers me that those people are still here. That they’re undercover now but they still exist.

	E:	What high school did you go to? R:	Lincoln High.

	E:	Lincoln High, okay. And was that in the same neighborhood? R:	No we had to travel by bus to Lincoln.

	E:	And what types of classes were offered?





	R:	Basic education; your English, Math, P.E, History. When I was in school, algebra, geometry. I think calculus was like the basic I mean the real deal so I think trig was just coming in and that was for the exceptional.

	E:	And what about extracurricular activities? What was available to you?



	R:	Basketball, football, volleyball, baseball, just basics. We did swimming. I think my brother played golf. The basics; nothing exciting.

	E:	Tell me about your teachers.



	R:	Oh they were great. They meant business, most of my teachers anyway. There was a test every Friday in every class, every Friday. They taught you all of the basics, and I never forget in seventh grade, the first day of class Ms. Jones would tell you “Don’t come in here talking about Santa Claus.” That was the first day of class and they would just make sure you knew all of the basics whatever they taught you, they wanted you to remember and know that you knew there was nothing, there was no such word as “I can’t.” “Learn it, learn it well,” “Always make the best better.” And I mean they just loaded you down. You had seven classes, you had seven books every day to take home. Every day.

	E:	Sounds intense, but just to clarify, so you attended Lincoln from seventh grade— R:	Through twelfth.

	E:	Okay, what was some of the big events?



	R:	Homecoming, graduation, prom that was basically it. E:	Who were the rival teams?

	R:	A.L Mebane in Alachua, Jones in Orlando. Howard Wild Bulls up in Ocala, and I think Palatka Central, who was Central then.





	E:	Were you a big fan of the sports teams?



	R:	Oh yes. That was very few games I missed. Well, my daddy was the police, so we went anyway.

	E:	Was the community really drawn around the sports teams?



	R:	Oh definitely. There was really nothing else in Gainesville to do, so Gainesville was there always.

	E:	Any memories or stories about Lincoln?



	R:	Well we were just kids. [Laughter] We enjoyed doing what kids do. I mean you know, we had our little friends and our little boyfriends and you know, we were just mischievous as always and the teachers were great. You know they treated like you were a family. You know they didn’t just more so educate you in the classrooms, they tried to educate you so that when you go out in public, because we had this one Home Ec. teacher, you know, she would try to tell you “You want to get an education, all that so you won’t have to dress like you come out [inaudible 13:23] was like Woolworth. You wanted to dress so that you could come out like [inaudible 13:28], you know, you wanna be somebody so that you can afford the better things in life. And you know, she would take the boys and teach them how to cook and sew. You know just so that you could maintain your own. And she would make sure that’s what you did. I mean, you didn’t just have to be in her class. And then, we just had our school reunion and how they would talk about—everybody talk about Mr. T.B. MacPherson was a coach and he would—boys he would just tell them about how they stink. You know they don’t wanna bathe, they was like that you know “Come here, you need to do





something.” So they were like family. It wasn’t just you know “I’m a teacher when you come in my class, you learn, you go.” No it was like “You need to do this, you need to do that, I’m gonna help you be somebody.” I enjoyed it.

	E:	So how far into twelfth grade did you attend Lincoln?



	R:	The whole thing, all the way. I graduated from Lincoln. From beginning, first day to the last day.

	E:	Okay, so you graduated from Lincoln? R:	I did.

	E:	I’m a little confused. Was there a class that was interrupted like during the school year?

	R:	Yes but that was the class of [19]70. I’m trying to think of who was in that class. E:	So what year did you graduate?

	R:	[19]68.



	E:	[19]68



	R:	I’m trying to think, you need somebody that was in the class of [19]70? E:	No you’re fine. I was just trying to understand where-

	R:	Yeah I think that was the class of [19]70.



	E:	So were you in the Gainesville during that time? R:	No I wasn’t.

	E:	You had already left? R:	Yes.

	E:	Were you in contact with anyone in the Gainesville area? R:	No.





	E:	Okay so what did you do after high school? R:	I went to Washington DC.

	E:	Okay, for a job or?



	R:	Yes I worked at the FBI.



	E;	Okay, and how long did you do that? R:	Three months. [Laughter]

	E:	Three months.



	R:	I couldn’t stand the city. The city was too much for me. It was truly gangster. E:	Would you say it was a big change from Gainesville?

	R:	Oh yes.



	E:	In what way?



	R:	Well first of all, that was my first time away from home and you walked down the street and I wasn’t accustomed to seeing somebody snatch somebody and rob them and then I didn’t know how to maneuver around the city. Or catch the bus, catch bus A to go to point B. And you know, people always driving up to you, wanna, “I’ll take you where you wanna go,” and “I don’t know you,” you know?

And I was staying with this wild girl who was like “Well come, let’s go out!” And then the straw that broke it was the night. We was sitting down, everything up there is like on a hill and we lived down the street from the Air Force base. So we sitting up on the ledge and these fellows came up and wanted us to go to the officer’s club to have a drink with them. Well I was seventeen at the time, but everybody told me to say I was eighteen and I didn’t know why. I didn’t, that’s how backwards I was. And so, they asked you how old we are said, “I’m





eighteen.” So they talk us into going and I told them the only way I go is I drive. And they was like, “You drive?” and I said “Yeah.” So in the back of my mind and I see if I drive and they try something, I just have a wreck. So, okay, we drove down there, because you could actually see the gate from where we lived to the Air Force base, so that wasn’t like we was going somewhere I didn’t know where I was going. So we go down there and so I get down there and I don’t drink so we just having coke. I’m having coke, they drinking. And so we have all this conversation and everything, and this man going tell me I could go home on the weekend and I’m going like “I ain’t going home on the weekend, where I’m going the rest of the week?” And you know, I’m just crazy. I don’t know. And so then I told him, “I’ll talk to you tomorrow,” and so you know, then he said, “Give me the keys.” And I’m going like, “No, I’ll walk home.” And he was like, “No, give me the keys.” And I said, “I’ll walk home.” “Okay ,you can drive.” Because I’m still saying in my mind that if he try something I’m just gonna hit one car coming. And so, he said, “Well I’ll come tomorrow.” So when I got back home and he came the next day, I never showed up at the door the next two times he came, so he got the message. And I decided, then I told my daddy, “You come get me, I can’t live like this.” So I was back in Gainesville. So we tell your little sisters.

	E:	So up in DC, I’m sure you encountered Whites. How was your experience there? R:	Oh it was very good because, working at the FBI it was everybody and we were basically the same age. I even worked with Indians, real true Indians, and

nobody really thought of race. And so it was just one big happy family there.



	E:	And what year did you move back to Gainesville?





	R:	That was [19]68, [19]68.



	E:	So you moved back in [19]68. R:	Mhm.

	E:	So you were in Gainesville during the time—?



	R:	No I left in [19]69 and I went to Tallahassee to FAM, and then I stayed in Tallahassee so I missed everything.

	E:	So how long were you in Tallahassee?



	R:	I came, I was there until—in and out of Tallahassee until about [19]71. E:	And what were you doing in Tallahassee?

	R:	School.



	E:	What were you studying? R:	Business.

	E:	Business okay.



	R:	I wanted to be an accountant and we didn’t have calculators at that time and I hated adding numbers.

	E:	So what were some of your experiences in Tallahassee?



	R:	Oh I loved it. It was hard, it was very hard, and of course the teachers were dedicated to teaching and it was just nice meeting people from everywhere you know different places and like I say, stay in a room three people in one small room that was not comfortable. Everybody on the floor share one bathroom, and you got to go down the hall to take everything with you to take a shower. That was no fun. I was not used to that. So it was a true adjustment, but once you get used to it you wouldn’t trade it.





E:  Did you find that same sense of community up there that you spoke about here in Gainesville?

R:  Well, I really didn’t get into the community. I didn’t have to because my neighbor here in Gainesville had moved to Tallahassee and basically I just communicated with them and the people on campus.

E:   Was Tallahassee still pretty much segregated or were things better up there?



	R:	Pretty much segregated, yeah. And it was, but you know, I guess I really didn’t take time to notice. I really didn’t take time because it was just going to eat, going to the drug store, going to the mall and you know it’s no segregation when you spending your money so that was the only thing I really basically did; spend money, go eat, go to class. But we did one time—they told us it was a plantation in Quincy and we tried to find it but we never did find it so I guess it was still kinda somewhat segregated.

	E:	So where did you go after finishing up at FAMU?



	R:	I didn’t finish but I came back to Gainesville and I started working at the sheriff’s office and I stayed there and that’s where I retired from.

	E:	Did you go back to the same neighborhood or a different area?



	R:	I went back to the same neighborhood and I stayed there until twelve years ago when I bought my own house. So I moved from my daddy’s house to my house.

	E:	And how did you find things back in Gainesville? Were they pretty much the same, different?

	R:	Moving a little faster, moving a little faster. It was more gangster. The kids were, I say from a lack of things to do, they were getting into trouble. More drugs,





definitely more drugs, because when I grew up, beer was the highlight of our day. And now they’re into—well marijuana had come along when I was growing up, but now—you know, then cocaine was heavy when I came back. And so they were into that, and marijuana was really popular then, so they had a lot more to do.

	E:	Was the city more integrated on the whole?



	R:	Yes definitely. Yeah. I can’t think of it but, everybody, I mean, they were making sure that—it’s a simple word for it and I can’t think of it, but they were making sure that they balanced where they—we called it a token. They was sure that they had their token. So, we said it was a token, but in a sense it was making sure we had a representative. So that was bad, but it was also good too. It was growing, it was growing.

	E:	Okay, so how did you hear about that particular class? You said it was the class of [19]70, I believe.

	R:	Well, my mom would occasionally send me an article or something like that, because there were several little riots and stuff like that. And she would send me an article and tell me she was glad I wasn’t home.

	E:	So how were things? Like how did the community respond to that news?



	R:	Oh they were upset. They were upset and they had quite a few people to be real negative. I think in [19]69 when the rioting and stuff went. I think it was [19]69 I think, because that’s the class after, and me and Stover was in that class. You don’t know whether they gave his name or not, but he’s a good one too. But that





class was the rioting class because they were closing it on them, and I think they allowed them to finish. And my mom would send me different little articles.

	E:	Was there a lot of response from the Blacks or the Whites?



	R:	More so from the Blacks, but the Whites participated. They would be present. E:	As opposed to the school code?

	R:	Opposed, yeah.



	E:	How did you feel about it?



	R:	I was upset and still upset. I was very upset because they didn’t have to do that.



That’s a part of me. Matter of fact, I live right over there by it now.



	E:	But did you see it as a positive movement like the bigger picture of trying to integrate the city or—?

	R:	No. It’s not because just what they did to us; they could have mixed them just as well as mix us. I mean, there’s a division line true enough somewhere, but who made the line? Who was present when the line was made? Because there’s Whites in every corner, there’s Blacks at every corner, so who’s drawing the line? That’s the question, okay?

	E:	How was it decided where those students would go? Did they all go to one particular high school or were they divided across the county?

	R:	They were divided depending on what area they came from, what school they went to. Because you know some came from Micanopy, some came from different areas of the county so they had to go to the nearest school to them.

	E:	I’m not very familiar with the Gainesville area so I guess I’ll just assume that all the Blacks stay in one confined area?





	R:	No. okay you have some like over here where you live now, probably was a group of Black people. Black people mainly owned this area. Then you have further down on 75, Micanopy area, there were a lot of Blacks. Then you have 75, Alachua area. They had their own school, but like Newberry all of that, some of them not close to Mebane would come; Jonesville, not close to Jonesville, but some of them out that way would come to Lincoln. Then you got the Hawthorne people. They would come to Lincoln and just, you know, they don’t meet the criteria to go to one of those schools. But they would come to Lincoln and they just all around like a circle. Waldo. It’s just—they you know it’s a little group everywhere and a lot of land, like a lot of this kind of land, Black people only.

	E:	How did you feel about the school being reopened as a middle school?



	R:	Well rather than just seeing it just torn down and nothing, I accepted it being a middle school but I enjoyed my high school because it was just, it’s so many memories of things that we did and a middle school you’re just learning to grow up you know? Like we had all the hardcore basketball games. and all the hardcore football games. and you really—that’s when you get into school spirit, when you get into high school. So, that’s what our school spirit comes from.

There’s a lot of school spirit in that building and that’s what I want to come back. There was a lot of great education taught in that building and that’s where our heart is. So that’s where my heart is.

	E:	Would you say that that school spirit, as you put it, is what kept you and your classmates together all these years?





	R:	Oh yeah. Oh yeah. The love for each other because we were a family and once you have family ties and even though you don’t have the blood, you have everything else.

	E:	I know you all just had a reunion event, or you spoke about a reunion event, what types of events did you have?

	R:	We had Friday night where everybody, most of the classes did skits and then did memory, like walk down memory lane. Things that they remember; the dances they mimicked the teachers, some of the songs from their era, just recalled some of the events you know, old pictures and stuff like that. It was a fun time. And brought back some of the old queens and a couple of the old teachers were there.

	E:	So looking back, this happened about, forty years now? R:	Uh-huh.

	E:	Okay, do you believe that improved race relations in Gainesville?



	R:	They’re dressed up. Somewhat improved but like I said, it’s covered up. It’s covered because those people are still there. Because Blacks still have to work twice as hard for anything that you want. So it’s covered up, it’s dressed up.

	E:	And how do you think that has affected the education of Blacks here?



	R:	Only strong Blacks survive here in Gainesville. You must be a strong, you must be a smart, determined Black child to survive here in Gainesville.

	E:	What are your thoughts on education here today? R:	Here?

	E:	Yeah in Gainesville





	R:	In Gainesville? I think once you get an education, education is Gainesville because it’s centered around so many different schools and just this, well last month I was in Georgia in Atlanta at that and little boy that asked what was the difference in long division. “What you mean what’s the difference in long-“he didn’t know what long division was and he’s eleventh grade. And I was going like “Lord have mercy.” This is something you get in elementary school so I’m going “Gainesville is blessed.” Because we learn you know? And so Gainesville is about learning. I mean kindergarten kid, when you go to kindergarten now, you doing what second and third grade in my day was doing so, and then when you got Santa Fe, who’s now turning into a four-year college and you got Florida and if you get into Florida, you got to have good grades. I mean, you just don’t say “I’m going to Florida” and throw your books on the table. You can’t go to Santa Fe and just throw your books on the table, so they make you work hard and you gotta be dedicated so Gainesville is education. Anywhere you go, it’s advanced.

	E:	Is there a Lincoln High today? R:	Tallahassee has one.

	E:	I don’t mean like the name—in the sense that you know—? R:	In Gainesville?

	E:	Yeah.



	R:	In our hearts yes. Yes, Lincoln Middle School exists but in our hearts we still have Lincoln.

	E:	But if you had to pick a high school now in the area what would you say to that?





	R:	No. Eastside would be close but those kids don’t respect themselves so that was one thing we were taught to do. So, no.

	E:	Can you say that the loss of respect happened at a particular time? Like at what moment did you notice that?

	R:	When the Black teachers kind of I guess when the schools really really—we had White teachers when I was in school, but it was more so Black teachers. And Black teachers made you, instilled in you respect for yourself, and then the Whites, they just wanted you to pass this test. But with a Black person they wanted you to come in there with your hair combed, your teeth brushed, your skirt pressed and ironed you know it was about “you and my work.” So you know that was the difference and today it’s the same thing. You know this year they’re gonna start the uniform thing, but before you know girls come in there with whatever they got on and stuff like that, but when you got a person that respects themselves, you don’t come in with—the boys with their belt on, their shirt tucked, and the girls gonna come on with a decent length of clothes, a decent look of clothes, you know? So it changed when the Whites kind of took over.

	E:	And how has the community changed? R:	Community—?

	E:	You spoke about a closeness when you were growing up can you still find that today or something similar to it?

	R:	No because many of us don’t even—you recognize. You recognize the neighbor but you don’t go from like, when I was growing up, everybody at the end of the day, you sat on somebody’s porch and you had this conversation. You know





everybody sitting around talking but today you just wave at them and go, if you wave.

	E:	Well, that wraps up my question. Do you have anything else you’d like to share that I didn’t ask?

	R:	No.



	E:	Hey Alma it’s been a pleasure speaking with you today and I hope you wouldn’t mind speaking with me again if necessary.

	R:	If necessary. [Laughter] [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:  Sandra Romero, October 7, 2015 Audit-Edited by: Sandra Romero, August 24, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 18, 2019