AAHP 501; Norris; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 501 Barbara Norris Interviewed by Ryan Morini on July 26 2017

1hour 4 minutes | 27 pages



Abstract: In this interview Barbara Norris talks about growing up in Chase City, Virginia with her family and her experiences of growing up in the south as a Black woman. Upon graduating as valedictorian at West End High School, she received a scholarship to Virginia Union University. It was at this university that she met her husband, Frank, and started their family. In 1962 the family moved to Ocala, Florida where her husband became an outspoken advocate for the Civil Rights Movement. She also talks about her husband’s position within the movement to further the cause. While her husband was busy with the movement, Norris recounts how it affected everyday life.



Keywords:[African American History; Chase City, Virginia; Ocala, Florida; Silver Springs, Florida; Civil Rights Movement; St. Augustine]



AAHP 501

Interviewee: Barbara Norris Interviewer: Ryan Morini Date: July 26, 2017



	M:	This is Ryan Morini with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. Today is July 26th, 2017, and I’m on the phone with Ms. Barbara Norris. Thanks for taking the time out to speak with me today.

	N:	No problem, you’re welcome.



	M:	So, can I ask when and where you were born?



	N:	I was born in Chase City, Virginia. You want the year? In 1939. April 6th, 1939.



Chase City’s in Mecklenburg County. It’s in southeastern Virginia.



	M:	I see. And is that where you grew up? N:	That’s where I grew up, yes.

	M:	How would you describe Chase City?



	N:	Well Chase City, it’s a small town. It’s a place where everybody knew each other.



At that particular time of course, everything was segregated. It’s in the South, and in that particular part of Virginia it was very, very heavily racially divided, as most small towns were at that particular time. But even though, you know, that everything thing was segregated, at that time we had the saying that “everybody knew their place.” So, people got along, even though we weren’t particularly satisfied with what was going on. Because of course, schools were segregated. The elementary school was close to my home, so getting back and forth to that school was not a problem. But the high school, and what we call the middle school now, I guess that was about five miles from where we lived. And of course, being Black, they did not provide transportation for students. So of course, we had to walk to school: in the rain, the cold, what have you. But you





know, we did it. My parents were hard-working poor people. But we believed in education, and there were three of us. I have a sister, and a brother who passed this past November.

	M:	I’m sorry to hear that. N:	Mmhm, yes.

	M:	Can I ask your parents’ names?



	N:	My mother’s name was Marjorie Smith Ricks, and my father’s name was Thomas Franklin Ricks.

	M:	And Ricks is R-I-C-K—? N:	R-I-C-K-S.

	M:	And what was your mother’s maiden name? N:	Smith.

	M:	Mitts?



	N:	Smith. S-M-I-T-H.



	M:	Oh I’m sorry, I’m sorry. Sorry, the phone. Okay. So, what did your parents do? N:	Well my mother, she kept children, sort of like an in-home daycare for children—

usually, you know, most of the parents were teachers. And when we, my siblings and I, were in elementary school, she worked in the cafeteria of the school. That was what she did. My father worked, they called it a box factory? I don’t know if you’re familiar with that.

	M:	A box factory?



	N:	They had a big factory in Chase City where they made boxes, and these boxes where shipped to Detroit and other places. And they were used to ship car parts.





	M:	I see.



	N:	Uh-huh. So, that’s what he did for a living. And even though they weren’t college educated, they did finish high school, and they were very, very intelligent people. And of course she had sisters and what have you, and one brother, and they all finished college and what have you. So.

	M:	Were they from Virginia? N:	Yeah.

	M:	Whereabouts? Chase City area?



	N:	Chase City and Mecklenburg County, Virginia. M:	Okay.

	N:	Uh-huh. And my grandfather owned a grocery store when my mom and her siblings were growing up.

	M:	I see.



	N:	Mmhm.



	M:	And that was also in—? N:	In Chase City.

	M:	Okay.



N:  You know, at that time, people didn’t move too far from home. [Laughter] They usually grew up and they died, in that particular place. But now of course, you know, it’s—it’s different.

M:  Yeah. Can ask what your grandfather’s name was? N:  Frank. Frank Smith.

M:   Frank Smith. Okay.





	N:	Frank Smith. And my grandmother’s name was Annie Smith. And she was a college-educated lady, and she was a school teacher.

	M:	Do you know where she went to college?



	N:	I believe at that time there was a school called St. Paul? And I think that’s where she went to school. That was in Lawrenceville, Virginia.

	M:	Okay. And so you were saying Chase City was segregated. Did you interact much with White people growing up?

	N:	Not really. The only time I interacted them was, of course, I would babysit. I had a job when I was in high school babysitting for, you know, wealthy Whites.

Really, they were the owners of that shop, that factory where my father worked. And I would go up and babysit on weekends. They were very nice to me. They had of course a housekeeper, and she was very nice. She was a Black lady. I had no problems, but like I said, we knew our limits. If I had to babysit at night, they would come and pick me up, they’d bring me home; but you know where I had to sit, don’t you?

	M:	Mmhm.



	N:	In the back. Even though there was only one person, you know, just two people in the car.

	M:	Yeah.



	N:	Mmhm. And it very demoralizing when we were walking to school in the cold, and then the kids, White kids, would by us on buses. So.

	M:	Is that most of how you came to understand those limits you’re describing, or were there—?





	N:	Oh yes, yes. Uh-huh.



	M:	Did your parents ever have a conversation with you about it, or did they just try to—?

	N:	Well, we talked about it. We talked about it. But at that particular time, there wasn’t very much that you could do about it. And my brother of course, he was a caddie, and you know he caddied for some of the prominent White people in the community. And they were always very good to him. Well like I said, we had a theatre, and of course, the Black people sat upstairs and White people sat downstairs. So, that was just the way of life then. Even though we didn’t like it, at that particular time, we really didn’t have a voice.

	M:	And so, you said your parents valued education. So, were they encouraging you to go to college?

	N:	Oh, yes. When I finished high school, I was the valedictorian of my class. And I received a scholarship to Virginia Union University.

	M:	Oh wow.



	N:	And that’s where I met Frank.



	M:	I see. And what was the high school you went to, if I may ask? N:	West End High School.

	M:	Okay, so—



	N:	And that was in Clarksville, Virginia, not too far from my home. We only had— well, you know when they came with the ‘separate but equal’?

	M:	Mmhm.





	N:	What they did, they built a new high school for Black students. And that’s where I finished, West End High School.

	M:	I see. Okay, so that was the closest Black high school to Chase City, I guess, or—?

	N:	Yeah it was, and it was the only Black high school in—well, no it wasn’t. They built two schools. One was named West End, and the other was named East End. And West End High School was for the students in the western part, and East End was for the other students. When we went to that new school, you know, it was really utopia for us. Because prior to that, we didn’t know what an inside gymnasium was. We had new classrooms, and new desks, and we had new books. So.

	M:	Oh wow.



	N:	Mmhm. So to us, that was really, really, really a big step in the right direction.



Even though everything was still segregated.



M:  I can imagine. So, I’m guessing you were going to high school, then, around the time that you’re getting sort of civil rights discussions in the news and things like that.

N:   Right. That’s true.



	M:	Were your teachers talking about that? Or your parents, or anyone in the community?

	N:	Oh yes. Yes, our teachers, and our parents. My daddy was very, very into this type of thing. He really knew about the sit-ins in Richmond before I did. Because Frank had talked with him about it.





	M:	So, he was very much in support of— N:	Oh yes, yes. And my Mom.

	M:	What were those conversations with them like when you were speaking with them? I mean, did they encourage you to get involved? Did they just kind of talk about—?

	N:	Well they didn’t really encourage me to get involved, but they would always talk about how unfair it was that even though we were intelligent Black students, that we didn’t have the same opportunities that White students had, you know, because of the color of our skin. See, this is why education is really the path out of a lot of situations. You know, you go to school, you go to college, then you sort of—your ideas you can kind of mix in, or merge with other students’. And then, where you have—it’s easier for a group of people to try to change things than it is for just one or two.

	M:	That is true.



	N:	Mmhm.



	M:	So I guess your parents were pretty happy with the scholarship to Virginia Union, then?

	N:	Oh yes, they were. They were.



	M:	And so, that was—had you been thinking about going there prior to that, or was that kind of what—?

	N:	Yes, I had. Because Virginia Union had, and still has, a theological school or a seminary. And it’s a Baptist school, and I’m Baptist, and I belonged to the Baptist





church in Chase City. And some of our ministers had finished the seminary at Virginia Union. So I knew about Union, because of the pastors at my church.

	M:	I see.



	N:	Mmhm.



	M:	What did you major in when you got to Virginia Union? N:	I majored in Biology.

	M:	Biology, okay. And did you have a particular plan in mind at that time?



	N:	Well yes, I did. I wanted to become a physical therapist or do something in the medical field, but then—well, I was enrolled in Virginia Union in 1956, but my plans kind of didn’t go the way that I had intended. Because when I went to Union, Frank was a senior at Union, and he was also a very good football player. And then when he received his bachelor’s, he enrolled in the theological seminary at Union. And then we were married in December of 1958. And of course after that, well you know, babies came—well, two. I got pregnant, and then I had to—things just sort of changed.

	M:	I see.



	N:	Mmhm.



	M:	So, how did you and Frank meet?



	N:	As I said, he was a senior when I was a freshman. And he was an outstanding athlete. You know, I would go to the games with my friends, and I would see him around campus, and I don’t know. I guess one thing led to another, and we met and fell in love, and we got married. Frank was always a person you could—you know, he just had this quality about him. When you talked, you could just tell that





he was—I just felt that he was a person that was destined for something great. He was very optimistic, he had a lot of self-confidence, and he had the ability to just sort of pull people in. He just had this magnetic ability to just sort of attract people. And to me, he was just a very good guy. He was also from a Christian background, and, yeah.

	M:	I see. Yeah, I’ve heard other people say he kind of had a sense of leadership about him his whole life.

	N:	Right.



	M:	It sounds like that’s what you’re describing as well. N:	Yes, mmhm.

	M:	He became, at least when he got back to Ocala, people thought he was a really great public speaker. Was that something that you saw?

	N:	Oh, he was. Yes. He was an excellent speaker. And while he was a student at the seminary, my church in Chase City needed a pastor. And we would go back home on weekends, and he would preach and what have you. They eventually called him as the pastor of that church, and that was when he was a student in the seminary at Virginia Union. So were back and forth on the road from Richmond to Chase City every weekend. Of course my parents were there, so we stayed with them. He was loved by everybody.

	M:	It sounds that way. Do you remember how he first started getting into civil rights activism, or was that already going on by the time you had met him?

	N:	Evidently, that must have been something that was going on. Because he would talk about it, and how unfair things were. When we went to the theatre in





Richmond, you know, there was a place for Black people and a place for Whites. We would go to shop, and one of the major shopping places for the students at Union, the ones who had any money at all, was Thalhimer’s. Because you know, they had just a lot of different types of merchandise. And then we would go in the store, and we weren’t treated very kindly. But you know, you sort of overlooked that. But then if we wanted to get a sandwich or something to drink, we couldn’t sit at the lunch counter. Because that was a place for, you know: Whites only.

Even though we had spent money in that particular store. And it was demoralizing. It really was. And we weren’t the only people who felt that way. The other students at Virginia Union, and the other Black residents felt the same way. But I think they just needed a spark, something to cause something to happen, to ignite a movement. And I think at that particular time Frank, and Charles Sherrod, who was also a student in the seminary at Virginia Union, I think they were the ones who led the Movement.

	M:	Were Frank and Charles close friends?



	N:	They were friends. You know, Virginia Union, it’s a small school. And the seminary of course is small. So everybody, all the people in the seminary, students, they knew each other. And I’m sure they had their little sessions where they would talk and discuss things. And I’m sure this came out, because it was going on in other schools, other colleges, in other places in the South.

	M:	So were you ever involved with the organizing or anything like that?



	N:	No. No, I wasn’t. And the reason why, I got pregnant with our first son, and I went home to stay with my parents awaiting the birth of Frank Jr. So I was not really





on campus when they were having the meetings and so forth. And I really didn’t know about the sit-ins, even though my father knew and my mother knew. They didn’t tell me because—now, the sit-ins, what year was that? That was in 1960, I think it was about February 20th. That was when the students first went to Thalhimer’s, and you know, had the sit-in. And then two days later, after having been told not to come back, they did go back. And that’s when they were arrested. The thirty-four students, I think—they call them the Richmond Thirty- Four—were arrested. And at that time, I was in Chase City. And that night, I was watching television, and I saw the news. On the news, I saw Frank being arrested and placed in a police car. And that’s when my father and mother told me that they knew about it, but they had promised Frank that they wouldn’t tell me, because he didn’t want me to get upset. Because Frank Jr. was born February 28th at that—so, you can see how close the things were together. But at first, when I saw him, I was shocked. I was shocked, but I was not surprised. I felt after the initial shock, you know, I was very proud of him. And I was proud of the other students. And I was just sorry that I was not there to join them, because I’m sure if, had I been in school at that particular time, I would have been in that group.

	M:	Understandable. And so, it seems like Frank was also traveling and giving speeches after that point. I mean, I don’t know if you’ve seen it, I saw a picture of him in the Chicago Defender from later in 1960 where it showed him giving an address somewhere else in Virginia. Do you remember much about any of that?





	N:	No, I do know. I didn’t go with him, because of course I was not in Richmond at that time. But I do know he did go to other places, and he spoke—we used call them Mass Meetings and what have you. He would go to other schools and meet with other students who were involved, as they call it, “in the Movement.” He was a very, very good speaker. He reminded me a lot—the way he spoke—reminded me a lot of Reverend King. He just had that, you know—I’m sure you’ve heard Dr. King’s speeches and yeah. He was a very good speaker.

	M:	Did anyone ever record him speaking? I’ve never heard—. N:	I don’t know.

	M:	I just thought I’d ask. Was he traveling also with Charles Sherrod during that time?

	N:	Yeah, they did. They traveled together.



	M:	What do you remember about Charles Sherrod? Just as a person.



	N:	Well Charles, Charles was quiet. Very intelligent young man. But to be honest with you, from my interactions with Charles, I was a little surprised when I found out that he was also one of the leaders. Because from just my encounters with him, I just, you know; I knew he was a very intelligent guy. But I think he and Frank, I know now in retrospect that they were a very good team. A very good team.

	M:	Fair enough. Did they stay friends throughout their lives, or was—?



	N:	As far as I know. You know, Frank and I divorced. And so, I sort of lost—well, I didn’t lose contact with him, because we do have two children together, but I





didn’t know that much about what was going on in his life, personal life. Because he remarried, and so did I. So.

	M:	No, that’s understandable. N:	Mmhm.

	M:	So, let’s see. Frank came back to Ocala in what, [19]61 or [19]62, I think?



Something like that. Early [19]60s?



	N:	Yeah, early [19]60s, uh-huh. When he finished seminary, he decided to go back home, to Silver Springs. That was in 19—I think—61. He taught, got a job teaching school and coaching at the high school in Ocala. And he also served as assistant pastor to his father Reverend Oliver Pinkston, who was a pastor at Covenant Missionary Baptist Church.

	M:	Now, did you ever go down to Silver Springs with him? N:	Yeah, we lived there!

	M:	Oh okay, you did.



	N:	Yes, when we left Richmond in, I think around 1961, we went to Silver Springs.



And we had a small home there.



	M:	Okay.



	N:	Mmhm.



	M:	What was your impression of Silver Springs when you got there?



	N:	Well you know, I thought Chase City was small? [Laughter] And segregated? [Laughter] Oh, my goodness! But when I got to Silver Springs, I just felt as if time had really stood still.

	M:	Wow. Did you have a tough time adjusting to it?





	N:	Oh, yes! I had a tough time adjusting. And so many times, I wanted to go back to Virginia, but at this time we had two children. We had a daughter, she was born two years after Frank. The people there were very good people, very good people. A lot of them hadn’t had very many opportunities, you know, to improve themselves and what have you, but they were good, good people. And of course his father, you know Reverend Pinkston was, I guess Frank got a lot of his—the way he would think about things and what have you, from his dad. Because his dad was very outspoken about civil rights and what have you. But again, sometimes, even though you feel like something should be done, sometimes you just don’t know how to go about getting it done. And you just need that spark.

And I think that when Frank got to Silver Springs, that’s when things began to happen. Or in Marion County, I should say, because his father’s church was really in Ocala. And at that time, of course, in—I think in Dunnellon or somewhere, I think? Somebody was arrested, and then some of the college students who had returned home to Ocala for the summer? They started demonstrating at the courthouse. And then, I don’t know if they reached out to Frank, or Frank reached out to them. I don’t know how it happened, but from this little group, that’s really what started the Civil Rights Movement in Marion County.

	M:	I see.



	N:	And Frank emerged as the area’s Civil Rights Movement in, I think it was about 1963. We would have mass meetings at Covenant Baptist Church; that was his father’s church. Those meetings were held sometimes two or three times a week. And I mean, the church would be packed. The inside, and people would be





standing on the outside. And the thing about it that was surprising to me was that most of the women were the ones who were really, really outspoken and supported the Movement. And the men for some reason, in my opinion, some of them were a little reluctant to get involved. Maybe it could be because a lot of them had jobs, and you know, that the White man, quote-unquote, could terminate at will. And I think that’s one of the reasons a lot of the men were a little reluctant at first. Because of, you know, the jobs that they had, and they knew that they had families to support. And then, we also had a lot of students from the University of Florida who would come down and attend the meetings. At the mass meetings, there were speakers from all over, as far as from Tampa, St.

Augustine, and you know, civil rights leaders from other areas would come in and speak. And they raised money to use to support the Movement in case of—you know, we had legal expenses or what have you.

	M:	And so you were going to a lot of the mass meetings?



	N:	Oh yeah, I think I went to all of them. And I went because I was afraid to stay home! [Laughter] Yeah I had my children in tow, and we went. And I don’t know if you’ve ever heard—have you ever heard of the White Citizens Council?

	M:	Mmhm.



	N:	Okay, they were very powerful at that time in that area. And of course, we received a lot of threats. And because of that, some of the men, and women too, they formed a group which was called the Fishing and Hunting Club, I think it was. I forgot.





	M:	I’ve heard a little about them. What women do you remember being involved with that?

	N:	I remember the wives of two of the men were involved. They carried their guns.



And when we had to go from our home to the mass meetings and back, they would always be with us. There were, I guess, maybe twenty men in this group. And they had shifts, they had their little code that they would use to communicate. Because we felt—I don’t know, but we felt that the telephone lines were tapped in our homes: Frank and my home, and his father’s home, because the houses were next to each other.

	M:	I see. Did they make you feel safer having the Hunting and Fishing folks around?



	N:	Oh yeah, they did. Because see, they stayed all night. They would stay outside of the area all night. See, because we had received a lot of threats. People would call and say Frank was going to die. And I remember one time, I wanted to call my mom and dad. And I didn’t want to use the telephone in the house, so—at that time you had a whole lot of phone booths? So I got in my car without letting anybody know, and I went to a phone booth to make a call. And while I was in this booth calling, these people were outside, and I don’t know if I was just afraid or if my imagination was just running wild, you know. But I just knew something was going to happen. So when my dad answered the phone, of course, I was screaming and carrying on, and this was upsetting to him. But it was very, very, very—even though I know it was something I supported, supported the Movement one hundred percent—but then, people don’t realize what families have to go through when they’re involved in this particular type of Movement.







M:

I mean, it sounds incredibly stressful.

N:

It was.

M:

And you were raising kids on top of it, so, yeah.

N:

Right.

M:

Did it affect the children in any way?

N:

I don’t think so.

M:

Okay.

N:

You know, they wondered, too, why we had all these people always around. But I



think they were, at that time they weren’t even school age. So I don’t think it



bothered them too much. If so, I couldn’t detect it.

M:

I see.

N:

I think they got a little tired of going to all of these meetings. [Laughter]

M:

Yeah.

N:

They got you know, restless.

M:

I could imagine that. A lot of people talking and standing around and—.

N:

Right.

M:

How often were you getting these threats? Do you remember?

N:

Oh, I think about two or three times a week.

M:

Wow.

N:

Mmhm.

M:

Usually by phone?

N:

By phone, mmhm.

M:

But there were never any confrontations face-to-face?





	N:	Not that I know of. But the only thing, Frank was on his way—I believe it was Tampa or somewhere, I don’t remember—to a mass meeting. And he had received this note. They knew that he was supposed to be going over there to speak, and he received this message not to go. And of course Frank went, and of course he was arrested, and he was put in jail. And of course, that was the thing that really, really, really pushed the Movement forward. Sometimes that has to happen to the leader. Mmhm.

	M:	And so, he was arrested in Tampa or—?



	N:	On the way to Tampa. He never did get there. I don’t remember now what the charges were, you know, why they arrested him. But they did.

	M:	Wow. I mean if I can ask, how did you cope with all that stress?



	N:	I don’t know. You know, I was afraid. But I had the children, and I had to think about them. And Frank has a big family, and I was always around—see, our house was next to Frank’s parents’ home. And there were always people around me. I think that sort of gave me the strength to just—. I knew it was something that had to be done, and I just felt in my heart that he was the right person. I knew that he was sincere in what he was doing. And I feared for his life, but I was his strongest supporter.

	M:	It doesn’t sound like anyone could’ve convinced him not to do it. N:	Oh, no. No.

	M:	You did mention the women were outspoken; do you remember any women in particular who were more outspoken?





	N:	I remember a lady, her name was Thelma Parker. She taught Frank; I think she was his English teacher. And she was very, very supportive. Very supportive.

And then, I’m trying to think of another. There was another lady who taught him, I can’t think of her name right now. But Mrs. Parker, I mean, she was—because I think she had faced a lot of things that she didn’t like, and was the object of something that happened in one of the stores. She had her grandson with her, and I think he couldn’t use the restroom or something. Her daughter who had gone away to school came back, and she was also very active. And her husband was a teacher. But Mrs. Parker, she was quite a lady.

	M:	Do you remember a Miriam Hampton?



	N:	Yes, I do. I remember Miriam Hampton. Her husband was a local dentist. And she also—now that you mention her—she was also very supportive. She was a spitfire! [Laughter] Yeah. But see, the Hamptons were prominent, I guess you could say prominent Black people in that area. Because I think the father was also a dentist. And then Dr. Hamilton, you know. They didn’t depend directly on White people for their income. You know, his patients were Black. So, they didn’t have to, they could—yeah, Dr. Hampton. And then there was another doctor in Ocala at the time, Dr. Jones, who was supportive. But the Hamptons provided a lot of financial support. And then, there was a family of Cunninghams. They had a funeral home next to the old Covenant Baptist Church. And his wife, Juanita Cunningham, she was also very supportive. And then there were other ladies in the church and community, but it’s been so long, I don’t remember their names right now.





	M:	I understand. You remembered a lot as it is. Did you interact much with Frank’s mother?

	N:	Yes, I did.



	M:	What was she like?



N:  You know, Mrs. Pinkston, she was a very nice lady. She was like a mother hen. I forgot how many children she had, about seven or eight. And she was very, very, very supportive of her children. And she was right there during that Movement.

She was right by Frank’s side, she really was. She was a warrior. Mmhm.



	M:	And what about his father? I mean, what was—



	N:	Oh Reverend Pinkston, he had a lot of influence in that area because he was a Baptist minister, and he was president of the different ministers’ alliances and what have you. So, he was very, very helpful. He was right there. He allowed the mass meetings and what have you to be held at his church. He of course spoke at a lot of the meetings, and he was able to get other pastors and their congregations involved in the Movement. He was a wonderful, wonderful person.

	M:	What kind of speaker was he?



	N:	He was an excellent speaker. Reverend Pinkston, well, he was sort of on the quiet side, you know? But Frank had this, what would you call it? I would say he was an orator.

	M:	I see.



	N:	Mmhm.



	M:	So Reverend—





	N:	And he knew how to sort of get people—I won’t say “emotional,” but he knew how to get them involved. And he also had the ability to let people know that this was something that had to happen, and everybody was needed in order for the Movement to be a success. And that we owed it to our children. You know, even though people might say, “I don’t want to do it,” “Well, what about your children? What kind of world do you want them to live in? Are you satisfied with them going through the same things that you’ve been through?”

	M:	Persuasive person. N:	Yeah.

	M:	I do have some more questions, but we’re coming up on ten o’clock, do you still have a minute, or do you have to—?

	N:	Well okay, I think I can give you about fifteen more minutes. M:	Okay, if that won’t inconvenience you, I don’t want to—

	N:	No, that’s okay, I can manage.



	M:	So one question I have—I’d understand if you don’t remember much about it, but I’ve seen that in [19]63, I think toward the fall of [19]63, the NAACP hired Frank to work in St. Augustine because they were concerned that the Movement was maybe getting—the potential for violence there was a little too volatile, I guess.

Do you remember any of his involvement over there?



	N:	You know, I remember him going to St. Augustine; I remember that. But I don’t really remember—actually, let me see, what’s the name of that, there was a dentist over there? Hayling, I think! Dr. Hayling, I believe, was in St. Augustine at that particular time. And I do remember Frank going over there, but you know, I





don’t really remember too much more about that. But I do know he went to a lot of different places to work with the civil rights leaders and what have you. And he was sought out to speak at mass meetings. He was a good organizer.

	M:	I don’t know if you recall Charles Washington? N:	Oh yeah, I remember Charles.

	M:	I’ve done an interview with him where I guess he used with Frank sometimes to—

	N:	Yes he did, uh-huh.



	M:	—to talk to business leaders and things like that. To convince them to you know, desegregate their stores. And what he was saying was that Frank was also good at discussing the economic benefits, not just the ethical or morally correct aspects, but also the—

	N:	Right.



	M:	I mean, do you remember much of that? Frank as the negotiator, or his ability to have those conversations?

	N:	No, I don’t remember that, because I didn’t go to those particular types of meetings and what have you.

	M:	Understandable. So were you working when you came to Silver Springs? Like, what was your day like?

	N:	When I came to Silver Springs, I had been promised a job by one of the principals to teach in one of the high schools. And of course, I was under the impression that I would get that job. But once we got there, I didn’t get the job. And I think it was due to the fact that, you know, people knew about Frank’s





involvement in the Civil Right Movement in Richmond and what have you. And a lot of the principals were afraid to hire me. But no. No no no no. When Frank and I first went back Silver Springs, when he finished college, you know, I still had a year of college to complete. Because I was out one year when I had my son.

Okay, so I went back to school and finished. And at that time, the Civil Rights Movement had started and what have you. So this principal promised me this job, but when I finished and came back to Silver Springs, nobody would hire me. I subbed some, but I never could get a regular job initially, as a permanent teacher in the schools. And so my time was just, you know, spent at home, taking care of my children and what have you. At that time my sister was living in Ft.

Lauderdale. She and I married brothers, and they were living in Ft. Lauderdale, and they would come up to visit, and I would go down to visit them. And my parents would come to visit. So, that was about it.

	M:	I would think that would maybe add to the stress. I mean if it’s not too personal to ask, just did all this participation in the Movement kind of take its toll on the marriage?

	N:	I don’t know. I don’t think that had anything to do with it. No, I don’t think that had anything to do with it.

	M:	But it was just a source of stress. N:	It was. Yes, it was.

	M:	I’m guessing to go shopping, you had to go to Ocala. What was it like to try to go out into those kinds of public spaces when these threats were going on and everything else?





	N:	Well number one, I never did go by myself. You know, I always had somebody with me. And you know another thing, in retrospect, I’m wondering now: how did I do it? Now at age seventy-eight. But at the time, when you’re young, you just have a lot of courage. And you just feel that everything is going to be okay. But now since I’m going over this with you, in retrospect, I say, “Wow.” You know? I don’t think as an older person I would have been able to endure. I probably would’ve gone back home to Virginia.

	M:	And what did your parents think of all this?



N:  Oh, they were a big supporter of Frank. And not only my parents, but the other people in the community. Because I told you he had been pastor of our church, and they supported him one-hundred percent.

M:  That’s excellent. It sounds like they got along pretty well. N:   Oh yes they did, they loved him. He was good person.

M:   Did they come to visit often?



	N:	Not too often. Maybe once or twice a year. And we would try to go back, go up to Virginia. But during this time, we didn’t do a whole lot of traveling.

M:   Yeah.



N:   Mmhm.



	M:	Wouldn’t imagine. What did they think of Silver Springs and Ocala?



	N:	Well it was different from Virginia, from where we’re from. They liked it. Because there are a lot of things that will attract you when you go into Silver Springs. I think a lot of that has changed, but see, they had that place out there where they had the glass bottom boats and a lot of tourist-type things.





	M:	Paradise Park?



	N:	Paradise Park. Yeah, Paradise Park and—yeah. So, they enjoyed coming to visit. But after my father passed, my mother eventually moved to Ft. Lauderdale, and that’s where my sister was living. So she stayed there. Even though she would go back to Virginia about two or three times a year, and her sisters and what have you would come to visit.

	M:	Do you remember much about Paradise Park?



	N:	Not that much. I know we used to go over there. That was a Black park. That was where Black people could go. And they had glass bottom boats, and they had a little beach. And it was just a nice tourist place—not only for tourists, but also for the local Black people. They would go there, and I guess to them, that was just like Delray Beach is to us now. It was just a place where they could go and swim and what have you.

	M:	Makes sense. Do you remember much about Frank being involved with the Head Start Program?

	N:	Oh yeah. He was, he was. I’m trying to think, how did he get involved with that? But I do know he was involved with the Head Start Program in Marion County. And he was also the principal of a school where they had I think maybe the first Head Start Program. I’m not too sure. I know he went to a lot of meetings and what have you, trying to get that program organized.

	M:	I see. Do you remember much about him organizing the boycotts? In Ocala? N:	Not really.





	M:	That’s understandable. I know one of the ways the White Citizens Councils—and the establishment did this in other places as well—but I think they tried to press charges against Frank for contributing to the delinquency of a minor.

	N:	A minor, that’s right. They did. Yes they did. Because they said some of the students who participated in the marches, and sit-ins, and so forth were minors— even though of course they had their parents’ permission. They threw everything at him, trying to get something to stick.

	M:	Were you ever worried that something would?



	N:	I was. I really was. Because you don’t ever know, and you know at that time those groups were very, very determined, and they were so entrenched in their hatred that I felt that they would do anything to stop the Movement. And the way to stop it was to cut off the head. And since at that time, Frank was the leader or the head, I just felt that they would, you know, try everything in their power to defeat him. But he never gave up.

	M:	Well, it doesn’t seem like giving up was really who he was. N:	No. No, it wasn’t.

	M:	How was he holding up through all this? Because I mean, he’s traveling constantly, he’s teaching, he’s preaching, he’s—I mean, was he just exhausted when he got home, or what?

	N:	No. I wonder, “how did he do it?” But Frank, he was young, he had always taken good care of his body. You know, he was very athletic. And so he had the stamina and the determination, so it didn’t seem to bother him at all. But he did have one incident where he had to have—let me see if I can think about what





happened—he had to have surgery, and they removed one of his endocrine glands. And he was in the hospital for a short period of time, and that kind of affected his health, after that bout of illness.

M:   I see.



N:   Mmhm.



	M:	Well, I think we’re coming up on those fifteen minutes. N:	Yeah that’s—. [Laughter] Okay.

	M:	But thank you very much for taking the time out to speak with me on this.



	N:	Well, I hope I was helpful. A lot of it, as I said, kind of I’ve forgotten a lot of, you know, what happened. But I hope I gave you a little information, anyway, from my perspective.

	M:	Quite a lot of wonderful information. Thank you. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Julian Valdivia, February 9, 2018 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, June 26, 2019 Final edit by:	Sandra Romero, May 14, 2020