AAHP 054; Hilliard-Nunn; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 054 Patricia Hillard Nunn African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Kiren Michael Valjee on June 11, 2009 1 hour, 38 minutes | 42 pages



Abstract: Patricia Hilliard Nunn was born in Denver, Colorado, raised in Morovia, Liberia, West Africa, and San Francisco, and graduated high school in East Pointe, Georgia. She talks about why she’s so interested in history and educating others. Her father was a historian and her mother was an African art teacher. She then went to film school at Howard University, where she met and debated famous filmmakers. After this, was awarded the McKnight Doctoral Fellowship at Florida State University. She utilizes her love of history in documentary-making about the stories of African Americans in Gainesville using oral history and interviews in an effort to argue against marginalization and assumptions about black and African cultures, especially since, as argued by Dr.

Nunn, grade school educations skip Africa in “world history” courses and often misrepresent it.



She also talks about “hidden” neighborhoods in Gainesville, such as the Rutledge community, and remnants from the past landscape, and trails left behind that can be retraced through oral history. She also discusses the myth of Floridian exceptionalism. She describes language difficulties in oral history and issues with finding local places that are absent from maps, and how critical it is to record stories as sometimes only a few people know the truth.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; University of Florida; Florida Historiography]





















For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 054

Interviewee: Patricia Hilliard-Nunn Interviewer: Kiren Michael Valjee Date: June 11, 2009



	V:	Basically, he’s interested—or we’re interested—in getting sort of life histories of folks who are involved in the communities here, with the African American community in Gainesville. So instead of maybe a more typical interview focusing on what you’re doing now in the community, we’ll start out focusing a little bit on your own life history. Your personal life history, maybe some other things that led up to you here in Gainesville, and sort of why you’re involved in the some of the things you’re involved in. And of course if at anytime you don’t feel comfortable answering any question you don’t have to. But it’ll be pretty easy going.

	H:	Okay. That’s fine. Well, thank you for the opportunity to share a little with you.



You know, there are a lot more people who are more interesting than me to talk to. But, I’m usually on the other side of the tape recorder. So, I’ll just do the best that I can. But again, my name is Margaret Patricia Elizabeth Hilliard-Nunn. Nunn is the new part; I’m married to Kenneth Nunn. And I was born in Denver, Colorado, raised in Monroe—I mean, raised—in Monrovia, Liberia, West Africa and South San Francisco. And, I spent one year in East Pointe, Georgia where I graduated from high school. And I have a family history in Georgia, in Texas, and in Colorado.

	V:	So sort of all over the place.



	H:	Yeah, and all of those places. And, I really became interested in history, you know there’re so many things I would—won’t even have time to even touch on right now, but—let’s can we wait while they come in—[interview interrupted by entrance of husband and daughter]. Okay, I think I was talking about my





upbringing. I was going to skip over a few things and just talk about why I’m so interested in history. And really it’s the connection between history and culture, and politics, really, because they are interconnected. But what happened was when my family moved back to the U.S. from West Africa and I met children and they’d say, “Oh, where you from?” And I would say, “Well, from Liberia.” “Where’s that?” You know, “It’s in Africa, blah, blah, blah.” And what I learned at a very young age is that a lot of people just have no information about anything other than their own culture and their own country. And unfortunately they pass judgment on other people based on their experiences; which are often very narrow, particularly, I think in American culture—and then particularly as it relates to people coming from places on the continent of Africa. It happens on all continents, but Africa in particular. And at that time, you’re talking the [19]70’s, and people are like, “Oh, Did you wear clothes?” [lLaughter] “Did you swing from trees? What did you eat?” And then me being the trouble maker that I was sometimes, I would play along with it. I said, “Oh yes! We swung—We used to swing from the trees,” but making it worse. But at that age I just learned how important it is for people not only to have exposure to different cultures, but if they can, to visit, to interact with people, and to know history, the actual history.

My father was a noted historian who passed not long ago. And he lectured all over the world everywhere about history, particularly African history, African Diaspora history. And so I got it from there, but also from my mom who was an African art educator and worked in museums and docents. You know, there’s this kind of double dose of orientation, if you will. And so, I decided to teach people





through culture. I guess it started through plays, you know, little amateur things, nothing notable. [Laughter] Through writing, through poetry, and then now through media, through film, just through writing and doing something that has turned into the collection of oral histories.

	V:	I read that you are working on a documentary. Is that still true?



	H:	Yes. I am working on a documentary which addresses the history of African Americans in Gainesville in particular, but Alachua County in general. It’s been a learning process, because when I started I was thinking it would just focus on Gainesville. But what you learn after you gather those oral histories is that you can’t talk about that, you know, the boundaries that were created after [Laughter] the history was made. And so there are all these interconnections between the city and these outlying towns and cities in this county and in other counties in Florida. So it’s really impossible in one piece to really, to even begin to tell the story. But what happened was that I just became so fascinated with the story I continued to [Laughter] interview people forever. And it’s like, “Okay, when is this thing going to end? When are we going to edit?” And so it’s been quite interesting. When I first settled here—‘cause I attended Hampton University where I had a journalism minor. I was a mass media major, journalism minor.

Then I worked for the Coca-Cola Company [Laughter] to save some money for graduate school. And then I went to film school at Howard University. And while there I was introduced to some of the most amazing filmmakers in the world, basically, who were addressing the same issues that I’ve always been interested in, related to history, and culture, and on politics, really. And most of them were





interested in producing work that would challenge a lot of the mainstream representations—

	V:	Official histories?



	H:	So-called official histories—exactly. Of Black people, of people in general, of Black culture. And at that time you really did not have that many. It was right around the time that Spike Lee was coming on the scene. And really starting, I guess—you know an additional wave of so-called Black filmmaking. Because it’s always been there, but you’ve had these peaks and dips.

	V:	Sure.



	H:	And oftentimes, those filmmakers would mimic the same images that the mainstream filmmakers would present. And so it was a blessing, if you will, to be in an environment with these people like Haile Gerima and Abi Ford, many others who also brought other filmmakers through like, Med Hondo, you know, Ousmane Sembene. These people would come through and they would visit Howard, and just in one of our classrooms and we could talk to them and fight and [Laughter] debate.

	V:	Yeah. It sounds like an amazing experience.



	H:	Yeah, it was really nice. And the key thing was to be able to learn about the ways—the questions that they asked and how they chose to use this technology—whether it be audio, whether it be film, whether it be video—to present another side. Because I believe that whether you’re talking about children, or whether you’re talking about adults, that information, those facts, those statistics, those stories are often better received when you can match them





with images, you know to tell the whole story. So that was fun. So anyway, went to Howard, then got a fellowship to come attend Florida State University: the McKnight Doctoral Fellowship. And while there, I think that the orientation of a lot of those who were training to become filmmakers was very mainstream, and understandably so. But that was not necessarily my area of interest. It was difficult because it’s kind of like I got this fellowship to come and study here, but it really wasn’t—it was kind of like I had to kind of morph into something that I wasn’t. Someone following this social scientific tradition of crunching numbers. [Laughter] I’m like, what on earth is this—you know, I’m like, I’m thinking, I know what the problem is. But in order to grow in other ways and to learn more about how that system of whatever quantitative approaches and qualitative approaches worked, I did what I had to do. [Laughter] And I knew what I really wanted to do, and that was simply to, to help tell stories, to help people share their stories. And being interested in history, not just in little sound bites, but rather sharing a more comprehensive picture, a holistic picture. I’m interested in individual stories but really in the way that those stories fit into this larger picture, so that we can understand cities or counties or states or countries. We have a tendency to— what do I want to say—marginalize individuals in the way that we tell their stories. And usually that narrative is about why they’re so special, because they’re the first to do this. Usually they’re the first Black person to do this, or the first White, or the first woman. And I’m not saying that that’s not special, but I’m more interested in other aspects of that person. How do they fit into that? If we just focused on the first Black then we’re focusing this essentialist approach to





telling history. You make certain assumptions because someone looks a certain way, and they have a certain culture that they will behave a certain way, and that’s not always true. But what we do know about history is that more times than not—in some, well, if a person historically has looked a certain way and they’ve been in a certain cultural context, they will be treated a certain way. Regardless of whether they’re the first, second, third, fourth, or fifth [Laughter] to do something. So, anyway, going back into that, we would have discussions about identity, discussions about aesthetics, you know, the Black or African, culture aesthetic, discussions about moving, different things from the margins to the center of the discussions. Not that they had to stay at the center of discussions, but there are times when they should be there, or they should be included. How can you have a film or even a documentary that addresses a certain subject matter and exclude a whole group of people? Even in my classes now, we talk about some of the films, particularly in the past, with Eddie Murphy that might be set in a major metropolitan city and he’s the only African American that you ever see. [Laughter] No love interest, no nothing, it’s just him. And then if you flip that coin and say, well, what if we had a film where we had someone like Brad Pitt.

And Brad Pitt was thrust into this environment where he never ever comes in contact with anybody, not even family, that looks like him. And we’d say, well, gee that’s kind of strange. And so then what happens is I became interested, what does that do to a person’s psyche? What does that do to our collective psyche when we’re constantly bombarded with these types of images? And it just doesn’t just, I think, impact, African Americans. It impacts all of us. You know, we





move forward as this large glob [Laughter], responding to this outside stimuli. Now some people say, oh, we can resist and we can—well, sure, I know this. That’s obviously true. But the reality is—you only need to spend a day at a high school. You only need to spend an hour asking the right questions to kindergarteners to understand the significant impact that all of these culturally biased images have on all of us. And it’s not just related to race, it’s related to gender, you know I mean the list goes on. So, back to the storytelling Kiren, what I have found is that when we simply, because some people say, “What do we do? How do we handle this?” [Laughter] Right? I’ve addressed this with teachers as well. I’ve addressed with parents who have children who are in an environment where they won’t even touch—You’ll have a class title, World History, and in the World History class, you don’t include a discussion of African history.

	V:	Yeah, a whole continent. Right.



	H:	There’s been an actual case—I know, because this happened, one of my children was in a World History class. Africa was addressed by, where someone showed the film, The Gods Must Be Crazy.

	V:	That happened to me! H:	That happened to you?

	V:	Yeah. First time I saw that movie was in grade school. H:	And so I’m thinking—and in grade school you saw that? V:	Yeah.





	H:	That is insulting. It’s dishonest. And by doing that that’s people just wiping the history and culture of a whole people off the face of the earth. And you have children coming to class, and they don’t know any better. Because most of the time what I have found, all children, regardless of their background, they’re really just interested in information and excited about it. And so for somebody to block that is terrible. And what’s related to the oral history—oral history projects, or filmmaking, or just storytelling—is that there’s so many real stories of real people out there that just make that type of institutional exclusion of African, African- American history, look so ridiculous.

	V:	Right.



	H:	It’s devious even. And it’s just unfortunate. And it’s this ongoing cycle, because those people who are teaching now were also exposed to that same [Laughter] information. And so that cycle continues. And so, when you look at every person, this is what my parents taught me long ago. We’d go places—sometimes we’d just sit and watch people. And they’d say, “Everybody has a story to tell.

Everybody. I don’t care who it is, who you think they are, who they think they are. There’s an interesting story.” And so, I would look at that, at people for research often to write poems, to write stories. But then I became more interested just in their regular story, how they described their life and their realities. And there’s so many different things related to that. But here in Gainesville, I used to live off 39th Avenue, in some apartments up there, Huntington Lake Apartments, I’ll just say. And there’s an area just South of there that I would drive through sometimes. I would, actually, even before that I’d just drive around Gainesville here and there.





And I’d see these roads, dirt roads, and I’d look down and I’m like, “What is down there?” I’m just curious. Because although I have this unusual upbringing, but I still grew up pretty mainstream in terms of suburbia, living in suburbs. [Laughter] So I was always just curious what was down these roads. Oh and don’t let me see what I believe was a shotgun house. I wanted to know who was in there. I’m like, “Oh, what are they doing in there?” [Laughter] Nosey! Okay, I guess, just being nosey. And one day I just started driving down these roads. So I drove down one of the roads not far from my apartment at that time and—found a whole other community that is still there. That people wouldn’t even know is there.

	V:	Almost like an isolated community?



	H:	An isolated community, where people have their houses, x, y, and z. One of those places is, what we call today “The Routledge Community.” And the place that’s there, that has grown up around it, is the Richmond Neighborhood. And I remember when they built Rich—I mean I’ve, you know it’s funny, now I’ve been here long enough. [Laughter] But I remember when they built the Richmond Neighborhood and then what happened is—I never made the connection between the fact that Richmond was on one side of this Routledge Community now that used to all be Routledge. In fact, that all used to be what was known as “The Brevard Plantation,” you know. One of many plantations in Alachua County. And, there are tidbits, there are remnants that are still there. But what I was seeing driving down that road was, really wasn’t just the community standing where you have the community store but there are people who still live there.





And I remember driving, I got my husband to go one of the—he’s been with me many times on these excursions. But this one time we stopped and we spoke to a man and asked him questions. And he’s like, “Oh yeah, you know, I used to go fishing over there and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.” And now they have these beautiful, large homes over there, and so it’s blocked off. In fact, they eventually, the new community paid to put up a wall so they wouldn’t have to look at this person’s home. And, you can drive—I’ve driven way back in there and there are the remnants of the store there. One of the churches is still nearby. And there’s some families that still live there that are active. Actually the Duncan family that owns the Duncan Funeral Home doesn’t live too far from there. And then now the retirement village is kind of backing up into some of that property as well. And then their cemetery is located down the road near the intersection of NW 23rd Avenue and 43rd Street. So there’s this large cemetery there, so a lot of people think that cemetery belongs to a church that’s right there on the corner. No. That big cemetery, all that property belongs to the people connected with this community. And so you have that community, Routledge, and the church that’s up there is Morningside Baptist Church. Then they have, I believe it’s Second Morningside—that’s one of those things I’ll have to verify [Laughter]— Morningside Baptist Church, which is just south of SW 8th Avenue. So another community that you would not know was there. You drive by there all the time and south of 8th Avenue, they’re sitting there and they were related to—used to be a part of this other community. But they moved down to the area they’re in now—or their ancestors did. And so they have all of the key names of certain





families that were connected with that area at the time. So, anyway, just out of my curiosity about these communities and about these people, I started to conduct these interviews and I said, “I need to tell –” I learned a little two cents of history and decided I was going to just make this film, a year or two [Laughter], right? And what would happen is everyone I talked to presented a totally different angle. And that’s what’s happened. There are organizations that I’m a member of where I’ve met people who’ve grown up here. Their families have been here for years, have owned land. And they started saying, “Oh, you need to go talk to such and such. You need—” I’m like, “Okay.” “Go talk to such—go talk to daddy.” Then I’m trying to talk to the dad, and he doesn’t want to be interviewed on tape or camera, but he’ll talk. [Laughter] And talk, and talk, and talk. And I’m like, “Can I run and go get my camera?” [Laughter] So through that process I just started to learn that just this land, just the relationships between African Americans and land in Gainesville and Alachua County was far more interesting and complex than people would have you believe. The challenge is that there was nowhere that I could just go and just pick that up. And in a way there still isn’t. There are tidbits. You have to be a detective to reconstruct this because even the people who know their family histories, but often even family members don’t write that down. Nobody has recorded their stories so that you can get those facts to help you reconstruct those stories. And so in some cases, some people have been surprised because I’ll know their family history, because again, as I said earlier, I’m interested in that bigger picture. There are a lot of the details that I may not have because I’m not from here. [Laughter] I’m learning. And some I’m learning





because there’s a fine line between the friendships that I have and then some of the history that I’ve started to learn. But still I think that it has helped for me not to be from here because I can approach it with a fresh perspective, and I’m not as integrated into certain areas where that might create certain biases. So to me I’m looking at this large canvas, which used to be Gainesville, but now it’s become Alachua County, and even Florida, and has even extended internationally.

Because you actually have some people from here who were a part of that Back- to-Africa Movement, you know, going back to Liberia. Which is where I [Laughter]—you know those connections. And people remember tidbits about things. Like that some of them have passed on, who remember that, who can say, oh yeah, well, I remember that lady, she went to Africa. And she started laughing. There’s Miss Rosa Bell, who has passed now and I interviewed her.

She was 100 years old when she passed. And I think that I interviewed her when she was about ninety, maybe somewhere between ninety-five and ninety-eight. But [Laughter] I would ask just like, “Well, what about Africa? What do you know?” She’s like, “Africa?” And she was like, “Yeah, well there are those people who went back to Africa. They said they were going to Africa.” And she started laughing. And then you talk people like that, Rosa Bell. And then I learned that, and this is a lady that I knew through a program called “The Powerful Elders,” which I started when I was working with COPC and started this organization, which I’ll come back to in a minute. But anyway, she’s talking and she says, “Oh yes, well, you know, because daddy—or my grandfather was a county commissioner.” So this is a direct descendent of Edward Martin, who was one of





the county commissioners. He was active politically in Gainesville. And he was not an anomaly. So see, you had all of these people—who were politically active from the moment that people, could become politically active. And so it was him—many today, when I first moved here wasn’t as popular—but today many people will talk about Josiah T. Walls, who was the second elected mayor of Gainesville, Florida. They’ll talk about him because he was a member of the U.S. Congress. He was a state representative. But I like to bring it home to Gainesville and Alachua County because he also owned over a thousand acres of land over here in the Payne’s Prairie area. He had been a school—a miller. He had been a soldier for the Union army. He settled here and he married a woman from this area. Actually, he married two women from this area, one passed then he’d married a much younger girl, which was very common with these men at the time. People talk about him because nobody at that time or since has duplicated what Josiah T. Walls did in and for Alachua County with all of the positions that he held, all of the things that he did. And there is a historical marker down by the state attorney’s office. I believe Melanie Barr wrote the text for that and applied for that. But there should be much more. Now the Black Law Association is named for him. The Black Lawyers—Black Bar Association is named the Josiah

T. Walls Bar Association. But no buildings or anything like that. But he’s just one, because you also then remember I mentioned all these surrounding cities?

	V:	Yes. Yes.



	H:	And so for example, we think about this city called Alachua, which is north of here. And, um, there are many others, but in Alachua, which is the site, or near





the physical space of the early city that preceded Gainesville. It was called “Newnansville” before Alachua was there. You had a Black mayor of Newnansville, Florida. In fact, Newnansville was the county seat before Gainesville became the county seat. But this was I believe it was like 1875 a man named Matthew Lewey, who was also a lawyer, who was a law man in Gainesville. But he also lived up there and, by the way, he is buried in the Mount Pleasant United Methodist Church Cemetery. And then he actually still has some family members who are around, because he didn’t pass till the 1930’s.

	V:	Wow.



	H:	You see?



	V:	Yeah.



	H:	[Laughter] And he had been enslaved, and he went through this whole process. There were many people like him, and their descendants are still here. They still live in Alachua County. So, you have that city, the city proper, Gainesville, and then you have places like Alachua. You have Newberry. What preceded Newberry was Jonesville. You know the trick is, it’s a long game. Just because it’s Newberry now, that has not been there all along. That was later on. Jonesville was there first, despite the fact that many of the families who still live there were there even before they said, “Oh, we’re going to create this new city and have these phosphate factories and what not.” But you have places like Montioak that came later. You have Bronson. You have Williston. You have Wacahootie [Wacahoota] which is down off Williston Road. Micanopy; there are a lot of African-American families there. The list just goes on. Some of these families did





have relations, and you can tell when you look at them, with a lot of the Native Americans who were also in this area. If just for a moment I want to stop. What happened, when I wanted to find factual information about this and I’d read books. Yeah, I mentioned to you earlier that I had, I’ve had to be a detective.

Well, not only have I had to be a detective in terms of piecing this other information together. I’ve had to be a detective in terms of how I read books written by mainstream historians. I shouldn’t even call them mainstream historians, but these people who wrote these books. [Laughter] That’s what I should say. Because how do you exclude—

	V:	A whole people.



	H:	—this. How do you exclude this information? And sometimes because I’m not from here, I had to ask people certain questions. They’d be working on certain projects and I’d say, “Well make sure you make reference to those enslaved laborers who were here.” Because up until the latter part of the 1800’s, most of the people who lived in this space called Alachua County were African Americans. So if you’re going to write a book about these people, what you’re saying is the lives of those laborers are not important, which is false, which would be a lie. Or you’re saying, “I’m just going to pretend it’s not there.” But I think more than that, I think people have been socialized not to see it. So—

	V:	I think you’re exactly right. I mean what we’ve learned in Paul’s [Ortiz] class, how well Florida has painted itself as a moderate state in terms of race relations and slavery history and whatnot. And it’s been anything but. Yeah.





	H:	Yeah. It’s fascinating because even the people who are from here don’t want to talk. See now you’re talking about something else here. That is a subject that people still have fear about. And I’m talking about a lot of the Black families. You could be lynched. You could be killed if you did certain things, if you did not adopt certain physical behavior and oral behavior as you go about your regular day.

Now even with that in place, and this is why I think it’s a travesty for people who call themselves historians to exclude the real stories of these people from their work. Other than little cute little thing, “Oh yeah, there are these Black people and they lived over here. And they had a church and a grocery store.” No. That’s a part of it. That’s just the beginning of it. It’s a shame because these people, even while dealing with this mental and physical enslavement—the mental enslavement and physical brutality continued afterwards. They were still somehow able to continue to build institutions. And in fact, it’s important to note that everybody, everybody was in that oppressive system, Black, White, everybody else was in it. But everyone was not of it, in that you still had people, Whites even, who did business with the Blacks—they had to. They had to buy their land when they started to move in. And they had to buy land from those Blacks. They had to do business. I was interviewing a couple for some research I was doing on the Female Protective Society, which is up here on 39th Avenue.

People drive by and they don’t know what that building is. And I was like that too. I would go to funerals there. Well, I went to speak to the wife, but the husband also spoke with me a little and he said, “Well, I’ve lived here all my life. My grandfather lived here, and we had all of this land. Our family house is still





standing there.” And he talked about the fact that they would, he said, “Well, we really didn’t have any problems with White people.” He said, “We did business with White people. We’d go to the market in High Springs. We’d sell our goods and then we’d go back home.” Because they were the majority, you understand. That’s all that you saw. And speaking to people in the Arredondo area off of Archer Road—same thing. They’d say, “Well, it wasn’t [Laughter] much of an issue because it was just us. We lived here, we farmed.” They had farmland and they’d talk about how they would walk places and all you would see would Black people. You might have some larger White farmers, but then a lot of those White farmers would be poor also. [Laughter] You know, like the Black ones. But going back to the book—When you are in a position to tell a story, and you have been socialized to believe that, you don’t even have to look and see “Well, do I have— ” you’re going to miss something no matter what, let’s face it. You know enough about that to know nobody can tell everything, and it will change. It’s constantly changing with new information. And even then you don’t have the whole story.

That’s just history 101. [Laughter] But when there’s something in front of your face, right in your front yard, and you will write a book and produce and put that out. And then do it over and over! Then you copied the last person who did it.

You know how when you read these certain standard texts, they regurgitate the same introduction, just reworded. [Laughter] Right? And that becomes what we call the canon. And as a part of this canon, it’s uncomfortable for people to use you the “S-word”: slavery. Okay? And then, after people are dragged kicking and screaming into using the S-word, then they go out of their way to say, “Well all





White people weren’t holding slaves.” Okay? And I’m thinking, “Well, nobody said that. We’re just saying, but all these Black people were slaves, except for four or five of them.” And they were the majority of people here. And you’re saying that out of the majority group that was here, and only five or six of them weren’t?

Then you get into the discussion about, you say well, over here for example, at certain plantations, like the Dudley plantation—it’s called the Dudley Farm today. All of their slaves were mulattos. There’s a story there. You see? There’s definitely a story there. Nothing to dwell on; spend the rest of your life thinking about that. But I would think that people would be curious about what happened to some of those people or some of those descendants still living in the area. But you definitely wouldn’t just write a book and say, “Oh yes, the African Americans provided a lot of labor.” And I’m saying if you peel that back and look at it, there’s a large story there. And so, I keep going around the block with that, but a lot of my work has been focused on peeling those statements back like a banana. [Laughter] Or like one of those little old children books where you lift the—

	V:	The door.



	H:	Yeah. Exactly. And the thing about it is, it’s easy because it’s not like someone following proper historical research would miss it. You understand?

	V:	They’re not secrets. There’s people out there that are willing to speak but nobody has come to them.

	H:	Yeah, I guess. Nobody should have to come to you. If you’re writing a book about the history of an area, and you don’t tell the whole story, and it’s right in front of your face—This isn’t like we’re going to a place where there were no African





Americans. I can’t stress this point enough. African Americans were fully integrated into the history and culture of this area. First as those runaways who just came here to hide out. Maroons, who hid out in Alachua County. Then you have those people who blended with the Seminoles. The word “Seminole” means “the wild one” or “runaway.” There are issues with that because people want to say, “Oh the Africans were just slaves of the Seminole.” That doesn’t explain then why if you’re a slave owner, you’re going to allow your wife then, when you pass, to marry your slave? [Laughter] And it’s a complex thing. And so what people did now because it’s so obvious those Africans—and they call them Seminole Free Men, or whatever—that they were all related. It’s so obvious that now they say, “Well, it was different than this other form of slavery.” [Laughter] So it’s just games. All of these semantics, as opposed to just calling it as it is.

Sometimes it’s both and, yes, there were some who were enslaved, but don’t ignore the discussion that addresses the fact that sometimes people had a game going. Seminole chiefs and others, would sell their own people to the local White traders, or owners, back to the plantation owner to get money. And then at night they’d go and kidnap them back! Or go steal them back! It was all right because they knew these areas. It was like swamp, and thick and brush, and there were even caves in certain places around here and in other parts of Florida. So you had people with a sophisticated life. FSU has a mascot. What is it? The Osceola, I believe.

	V:	Yes.





	H:	And many people probably don’t even realize the history of Osceola. There’s another example where if people really look and they want to say, “Oh, yes.” They spend a lot of time on, “Oh well his father was an Englishman and this and that.” There are little things that people will emphasize. And I’m saying, “Well what about this other thing? And then why was he always resisting oppression of White men in the state of Florida and trying to protect? How come most of the people fighting with him in his band were African Americans?” But we play an interesting game with history. Even when it’s the oral history coming from those individuals or people related to them, we exaggerate the tidbits that we want, that are favorable to our version of the story. And you’ve seen that. And we minimize, belittle, and erase those elements that are less favorable. And so that’s what has certainly happened with people telling the story even of the Seminoles, or talking about the period of enslavement. Here there’s a man, if you look at some of the oral histories taken by people with the Florida Writer’s Project. I don’t know if you all have talked about that in your class yet.

	V:	I don’t believe so.



	H:	They’re all online now or in some books. But they have one man who talks—who in his latter years lived in the Jacksonville area. And he said that he had been enslaved, but he said he was the grandson of Oceola.

	V:	Hmm.



	H:	His mother told—nobody has ever explored that. Don’t you find that—these were so-called slave narratives.

	V:	Right.





	H:	So in the [19]30’s different writers, Zora Neale Hurston was among that group, went and interviewed these people. And there are a lot of interesting tidbits that come back about the whole culture of slavery, the meaning of that institution to these people. [Laughter] I’ve read different versions of that interview. And sometimes they don’t even include that reference. You see?

	V:	Yeah.



	H:	And so that to me is the editor, or the interviewer, saying, well that’s not important.

	V:	Right.



	H:	You’re being—[Laughter] And there are other— V:	Coming in with an extreme bias already.

	H:	Exactly. You know, we all have our biases and I accept that. So going back to this, telling these stories, speaking to real people about their experiences, trying to verify certain things or really add, or remove evidence in some cases. You have to free your mind, if you will, and be able to ask these questions, and just listen. And by listening consistently you start to notice certain patterns. And the other thing is that sometimes people don’t know what they know. Does that make sense? [Laughter]

	V:	Yeah, I know exactly—



	H:	And so it becomes a matter of language. And so you can’t even do it because you don’t speak the language. You understand? And that’s what has happened with me certainly. If you’ve lived here you know there’s certain references, certain codes that people use. And I might be talking about this candle holder. But





because in my house we always called this—I’m just going to make up—we always called this the Hotep stick. And so I’ll say, yeah, he took him and he had the Hotep stick. [Laughter] So you’re running around as a researcher trying to—

	V:	To figure out—



	H:	Analyze the origins of the Hotep stick. And that’s just a unique family word. Or it might unique community word. Or one of the best ways I can think of it is when people cite the so-called “Pledge of Allegiance.” When you’re a child there are certain—I have a friend here, who grew up here, and she—we laugh all the time. She talks about how she would say, “I pledge allegiance to the flag forvitchit (sic) stands.” [Laughter] And so she grew up thinking there was a word called forvitchit. Right? And so the same thing is what I’m saying. So then as a historian, or a oral historian, or somebody learning these stories, that’s why it becomes sometimes important to engross yourself in that culture, in that history. And then to say, “Well you said this? What did you mean by that? And sometimes they know and sometimes they don’t.” We just always said that. And I’ll give you a concrete example besides the Hotep stick example. [Laughter] There’s an area here in Alachua County that people always talked about. And they would say, they called it “Dry Purell.” They’d say, oh well where you from? Dry Purell. Well you can’t find Dry Purell on anybody’s map. Now I’m saying that, but watch, somebody’s going to come show me a map (Laugher), right? But there might be? But based on this little incident that we had, I was asking around. And actually there was a White woman who was trying to find out about Dry Purell. She lived in an area, a trailer park, and they were about to move





everybody away. And she was trying demonstrate that this was a historically Black area. I guess I didn’t have the heart to tell her but I wanted to say, nobody really cares. Unfortunately people don’t care about that. In fact, they had already paved over a Black cemetery in that very area. Well she couldn’t tell me, and I was talking to people up in Alachua and High Springs. [Laughter] And I started getting closer to it. And I said, “Dry Purell, Dry Purell.” And so finally, a friend of mine, I was talking to her and she said, “Oh. I said, do you think when they say Dry Purell, they might mean Dry Prairie? And she’s like, yeah. Dry Prairie.” Do you understand?

	V:	Yeah. Right.



	H:	And so then, remember I told you about that one community down South of 8th Avenue. There are bunches of these communities. But I happened to be interviewing a man there, Mr. Williams, and I was able to verify that with him. I said, “Now by the way, what about this Dry Purell?” I said, “What did you all used to call that? And he was like, oh yeah, Dry Purell, Dry Prairie.” And he broke it down. [Laughter] I haven’t listened to that interview again recently, but he explained that. Because there was an airstrip there. People would go hunting and fishing. Just like the Richmond area where people had built. But see this is why it’s so critical to record these stories, because when he’s gone there’re so few people who can know. And so it’s important to record those words and the other words. Because when you get to these areas you ask people, “Well where did your people come from? How did they wind up here?” There’s words for that. So if they were marooned, there are certain words they’ll use. If they came from





plantation a lot of times I’ve learned they’ll say, “Well, we came from South Carolina,” because it’s embarrassing for some people, unfortunately. Here they were the ones that were enslaved, but they’re embarrassed to say, “Well, yeah, we were enslaved. We came here either to be reunited with family or we came here after freedom. We heard this was a good place to be.” But there’s a level of embarrassment. And I’m thinking, “well you weren’t the ones enslaving people”. [Laughter] So, you have that. And it’s just interesting. I didn’t know most of this when I started to read the so-called texts that address the history of Alachua County or the history of Gainesville. But while you’re reading those I came across things that, it’s like, wait, did that say slave? [Laughter]

	V:	Right.



	H:	I had shared some of my research with a woman, a poet and writer named Ntozake Shange, who was here teaching at University of Florida for a short time a few years back. And we were at a reception, and we were just talking about it. So there was another lady who had moved, we’re talking about this period of enslavement because that’s really what was on my mind at that time. And the lady said, “Were there slaves here?” [Laughter] And we looked at her, and I was like, oh my gosh. But, you know, why would she know? Really, if you think about it.

	V:	No one else has told her.



	H:	And there you go. You can’t be mad at that lady. She was writing like a tribute to those slave laborers in a piece called—and she titled it, Were There Slaves Here? [Laughter] Or, no! She titled it, There Were Slaves—whatever, the lady





said, that’s the title she gave it because she acted so surprised. So again, initially I was looking at the traditional areas, like 5th Avenue, Pleasant Street area.

People always talk about the history of those areas, it was thriving. They had businesses, they had the school, they had what’s now known as the A. Quinn Jones Center, which is a school, it used to be the old Lincoln school. And it was not far from the site of the original Black school, which was called the “Union Academy,” which was built right after the signing of the Emancipation Proclamation. People got together and they built that school—

	V:	And this is the 5th Avenue Community—



	H:	This is the 5th—okay. All of this is in kind of like a little square. Okay? We call it the 5th Avenue Pleasant Street Community, today. And because initially when you’re talking about the City of Gainesville—although my research is even changing the way that I look at this—but most of the Black people who came settled in that area, in the Pleasant Street area of Gainesville, which is downtown. So if you were in Gainesville, in the city, you were there. That’s where they would sell—there’s a whole story, the Brush Edition, that’s where they would sell land to Black people when they moved here. Well, there were other places because people needed laborers. So even after slavery there had to be outposts. And so as a result of that Black communities grew in those spaces, too. When you look at places like Porter’s Quarters, the Springhill neighborhood, the list goes on, with those types of communities. But when we go back to the Pleasant Street community, as far as in city, you had your school, Union Academy, that was built immediately. You had Mount Pleasant United Methodist Church, at that





time Mount Episcopal Church, because the United Methodist came later. You had business. Later on you had movie theaters. You had other types of schools. You had other churches, all in that community. Doctors going up and down what we call Pleasant Street. There’s an actual street called Pleas—

	V:	Right.



	H:	Then you have 5th Avenue, we call it 5th Avenue today, but it was called Seminary Street back in the old days. And people—there were businesses, a lot of things taking place there, the old Wabash Hall. Pleasant Street, that area was older than the Seminary Street area. Seminary Street area was able to function all the way up unto the—well actually it’s still functioning. There’s still businesses that you’ll find there, but not nearly at the level that you once had it. So, people that I’ve interviewed, or people who have had businesses on those streets, they walked those streets, they attended activities on those streets. So they’ve talked about it. Charles Chestnut, for example, I remember during his interview, his grandfather started the Chestnut Funeral home here. And he still runs that. But he talks about the fact that those people were able to send their children to school because people supported those businesses. When integration came and they could go anywhere, they started going anywhere. And so unfortunately those businesses suffered. Another person who attended—I was a member of Mount Pleasant United Methodist Church and there was someone who was one of the nice elders who attended the church who used sing in the choir. He had solos every now and then. And then one day I just started talking to him more and come to find out he is a descendent of one of the earlier settlers. His father





was the first Black doctor in Gainesville. And so it just shows you why it’s important to do the oral histories because his father donated the land on which the second Lincoln High School sits. And A. Quinn Jones is there today. That’s information you’re not always going to have if you just go read somebody’s book about that. He knows his father donated that land. He’s still living. His father came to town on the, what do you call it, the horse and buggy, or whatever, when the people moved during the 1800s. They had been enslaved. And his father was up in age when he had him. So he’s still going. He’s retired now. He had been a teacher. He told stories of the integration of—well basically just integration in Gainesville. But that’s Mr. Bobby Ayers, Robert Ayers. And I’m trying to remember. There are so many [Laughter] as you can see. But I just wanted to paint a picture for you. There’s the Gainesville history as it addresses African Americans. So my orientation was initially with that Gainesville history. I was like, “Oh, well who’s this Josiah T. Walls?” We know where his house used to be, that type of thing. And we know that there was Cato’s Foundry. He had great sodas, shakes he’d sell, and food. There’s the Wabash Hall. You had Pleasant Street where they had movie theaters, you had insurance agencies. The old Mount Carmel Baptist Church was housed in that community. Now Reverend Maybury’s church is in that same structure, Mount Caramel. There’s a whole story I have, as told by Andrew Mickle about how Mount Carmel moved from that site way out 8th Avenue farther east under the leadership of Reverend Thomas Wright.

	V:	Okay.





	H:	Who was a preacher. He’s retired now. But he had moved to Gainesville after basically being run out of St. Augustine—

	V:	St. Augustine. Right.



	H:	Civil Rights period. But he was a visionary. And so, you know, he used—I interviewed him. He’s just—whatever he set his mind to do, he just did. You know? He thought big and out of the box, and that church is still there. But, so you had that area. You had barber shops. You had beauty shops. Um, some of the people are still there running those shops literally today, from—after all of these years. And, um, they had a—they had a way of interacting with the community, interacted within that body, with their churches and social and civic groups. And then there were certain relationships with those outside. So, you had the University of Florida. And I’ve interviewed people who talk about walking to and from work on campus. They may have worked in buildings and grounds and had students yell slurs at them or throw things at them, you know, when they’re walking up and down the street. And then other people during interviews I’ve done, they’ve talked about how they were told don’t let the sun on you, when you are in town. You need to be out of town, you know. Back out to the country [Laughter] if you will. So, there’s that Gainesville story and there the pockets in Gainesville. There are places like Pistol Alley. And there are people who have told me, “Well, where is Pistol Alley?” They don’t even know and they grew up here. All right? So, you have both stories. And then you have, um, you start to have the stories of people out in what we might call the country. You know, Long Pond, Monty Oak, Gordon, The Brooker, you know, Grove Park, you know,





farther out east, and then you go way out to Hawthorne. So, you have all of these surrounding cities and some of those people would come in to the downtown area to go to the big city, you know, for them to come visit Gainesville. And so see that’s—it’s impossible to get all the details about any of that. But we need to start painting a broader picture when we start talking about, you know, that history. And then, of course, infusing or incorporating it into the overall history of Alachua County. So you don’t have to compartmentalize histories. There is but one real history, of what happened, but we can’t bleached that. [Laughter] We need to stop bleaching it and just—‘cause you say, “Well, jeez, somebody had to do that.” It’s been a challenge to tell those stories because you have to be— because there are people who are uncomfortable with that. I mentioned earlier they don’t wanna hear the s-word. There are some people who still don’t understand while there are some people uncomfortable with—if you were to fly the Confederate battle flag [Laughter] in front of the public building. It means, the meaning—it’s just a flag, which could be torn up and, you know, whatever, just, you know—it’s just a flag. But it’s the meaning that it carries and the history behind that flag that has cause controversy. Now, in a lot of places people probably wouldn’t mind ‘cause some people don’t necessarily [Laughter], you know, they just don’t care. They don’t know even today, they’ve forgotten. But most people do, and it’s problematic. And so, when you know, today I’m on board, I’m the President [Laughter] of the board of the Matheson Museum here in Gainesville. And one thing I’m happy about is that I’ve been able to work with a lot of good people to, you know, just to kind of bring some programming that





starts to touch on just a variety of issues when we talk about the history. Things that people didn’t think about before necessarily. And it’s been a challenge there and outside. Because sometimes you’ll just say, “Remember to include that. If you’re gonna start there, you need—” and people have actually have not known. Some of the information I’m sharing with you, with going back, whether it’s going back to slavery, whether it’s dealing with these communities, whether it’s saying most of the people in Alachua County were Black. And that this county would not have succeeded at the pace—grown and succeeded and thrived—at the pace that it did had it not been for those laborers—whoo! [Laughter] Some people get very uncomfortable with that and I say it’s not my fault, you know, if you didn’t know that. It just is, that’s a reality. I didn’t make it so. It’s just—it’s so. That’s what it is. And so what they’ll do, instead of telling that whole truth, they’ll say, “Okay, well, we’ll say this part.” You know, they’ll give an inch. And so there are organizations, many organizations in this town that are working to uncover and present history of African Americans. Every time I turn around somebody’s starting a new organization, or museum, or culture center, which is good, but it, of course, would be great if people could work together and, um, do one fabulous system. But the Cultural Arts Coalition, for one, has been doing it for a long time, under the, um, for the longest time, under the direction of Nkwanda Jah. They have the 5th Avenue Arts Festival every year, which originally really focused on the history of the 5th Avenue Community, and they would actually hold that festival on 5th Avenue and close the roads down. Well, now I understand that there are some businesses who don’t want the road closed, you know, anyway.





So, but they still hold that festival. There’s also the Ebony Appreciation Banquet every year, every February. Just the Ebony and Bernadette Woody has been the one who has coordinated that. Just her program, her banquet program, has been—is a—her programs, plural, excuse me—are important historical documents, because they put the whole history of every honorary, every year.

And I think they—and they honor—the nice thing is they honor not just the people who always get honored, but, you know, it’s just people who you haven’t heard of who’ve done remarkable things, you know. They had one man who had never missed a day of work in, you know, something—I wanna say like forty years. And he had been on—working, a sanitation worker.

	V:	Oh, okay.



	H:	Had not missed a day of work and still looked like he had twenty or thirty more years in him. Looked like a strong man. And just a fabulous program. They do that every year. The Cotton Club Museum and Culture Center, which is trying to get off the ground, which is getting off the ground and with that organization it will be a museum. And with a building, and surrounding houses, which will be places where artists can come—artists-in-residence programs can take place. There’ll be like a little theater area where you can have outdoor theater, indoor museum where you can interpretive exhibits, speakers, presentations. And that’s under the leadership of, Ms. Vivian Filer, who grew up not far from there and her church, the Mount Olive AME Church is nearby there. And they’re a part of that. The church is involved in that whole process. But history, again, that building, where the building is used to be the Cotton Club for Gainesville. And it was a





building that was moved there from Camp Blanding, you know, where they had the soldiers. And the soldiers would come, and they’d go, and James Brown, Ella Fitzgerald, all of those people actually performed in that space. So they’re renovating this building. You can go there and look at it. So them, there’s the Pleasant Street Historic Society. There are many people who work with that. One of the people whose—really taken the lead, a friend of mine, Melanie Barr, who has written many of the what do you call that—the historical markers for the area. But Clara Nell Griffin, who is actually one of the descendants who her family moved here from South Carolina. But they were also active in that Brevard Community near Routledge I mentioned. She donated her house with the instruction that it should serve as a museum for African American history. Right?

	V:	That’s cool, yeah.



	H:	A. Quinn Jones, his son, Oliver Jones, donated the home of A. Quinn Jones, the long serving principle of the old Lincoln High School, to the University of Florida.

A. Quinn Jones kept everything. [Laughter] Pictures, brochures, the Negro Business League, there was a postcard put together featuring, “Negro Homes of Gainesville.” And it’s all at the library now, because this man kept everything. His briefcase with his initials in it, are there. All of these pieces. And his house, which is right across the street from A Quinn Jones Center, now. And so, I think you understand the differences in the school. Because there was the—there was first the Union Academy, then there was the old Lincoln, which is where A. Quinn Jones is. Then they close that, that stayed and they opened where Lincoln Middle School is was the high school. And then it goes on from there. But just





that, clarifying that with people is a challenge. And there was this political in how they wound up closing the new Lincoln High School, which was a state-of-the-art high school when they opened it. They designed it. There were people who participated in that process. But when it was time to integrate, and keep in mind Alachua County went into kicking and screaming [Laughter] .Okay? And finally had to do it middle of the school year. Because they weren’t going to do it, were not going to let it happen. And so when they did let it happen, unfortunately they closed the Black school, which would have been the better school to keep as the high school at that time because of the condition it was in. And you can go back and read about that, but there are people to this day who are still hurt by that, because that was a vital cultural institution, not only educational institution, but cultural institution in the community. And people cry and even to this day there’s a lot of sadness and pain connected with the closing. A woman I interviewed, Josie Mitchell, she’s passed now, but she talked about how she was an elementary school teacher, and she talked about how they closed her school— that’s another one I need to go back and listen to, it’s been a while. And she said that they called them all into the gym at her school, and they principals from different schools come and they picked—you remember, all I could think about is how you pick teams, yeah, for kickball. [Laughter] Right? And she said that they picked, that’s how they did it. They picked, “Oh, I’ll take this one, I’ll take that one.” Yeah. So that will be in the film when that’s done. And another thing, I don’t just interview people, I look for—because primary sources are great. There are other kinds of primary sources, of course. I try to combine those. And then I like





to look at things, if I can get my hands on things that people have written about those specific experiences. And so, because it puts things into perspective. I won’t mention any names right now for this. [Laughter] But I found, for example, when you talk about history and culture and educating our children, there was a person who was a principal for many year, a beloved principal, and in that person’s book that that person wrote—where they didn’t mean any harm, I know they didn’t mean it, and they’re actually a nice person, but you can be nice but still have issues [Laughter]—and in that book said, “Well—“ was talking about slavery. First of all I’m thinking, “Why are they talking—this is not their area of expertise.” But said, “Well, it’s worked out nicely for those Africans, the Africans, because they were enslaved, because look at what a dreadful place Africa is.” And wrote that matter-of-factly in the book, and, you know, mentioned that one of the teachers at the school where this person was the principal, had gone to Africa and came back and was complaining. Which has happened with people, depending on what types of expectations they go with, and where they go, and all of these types of things. And “Well, gosh, I wouldn’t want to go there.” This is what this person was saying. I didn’t like it. And it was this, and it was that. So she was very happy to come back and she share with her principal that although she was an African-American person, she didn’t feel that Africa—But I’m sharing this to say that this principal hadn’t been Africa, hadn’t studied Africa, hadn’t— really had a paternalistic approach to dealing with Black people and this is the type of thing they said, so it’s no surprise then that they’re repeating that cycle of





mis-education, you know. So, I’m going on and on and you haven’t had a chance to say anything—

	V:	No, no, no. It’s quite all right—



	H:	And I just peek down and I see—it looks like you have a list. [Laughter] V:	Yeah. It’s all right though—

	H:	I’m curious, what’d you say [Laughter]?



	V:	This is—it’s just a guide. No, this has been fantastic. But based on what you’ve been speaking about, in terms of your research, I’m interested to know, sort of who do you view your audience for your, for your documentary to be.

	H:	Hmm. Well, I believe that it might be a challenge for some little kids, but for a broad audience, Black, regardless of race, regardless age. And this is what I do whether I’m talking about even when I’m giving PowerPoint presentations.

Because unfortunately, there are so many things that so many people don’t know regardless of age. I don’t say, “Well this is just tailored for sixth graders, or this is tailored for people who live in the community who are in their fifties or sixties,” because a lot people haven’t been exposed to it in this way.

	V:	True.



	H:	So it will be something that will be different. I can’t include everything. I wish I could. And that, that’s the probably the hardest issue that face in completing it now, because there’s so many, you know, you say well how do you pick? And I am looking at education, religion, civic and social, institutions, education, as they relate to this, the growth and development of this community. I do cut it off, however, you know, during early seventies. Although there might be some





references later on. You know, so from that early time, a general background history on up to the seventies. But it’s impossible—but that would reach anybody. Because unfortunately most people they just have no orientation. So, I’m not saying, “Oh, just women, just men, just, you know, a Black audience, or outside of Gainesville.” And this is the other thing, it’s something that people from other states and communities will also be able to relate to because they’ll have similar stories to tell. It’s just in a different geographical space. Yeah because when I talk to people about it, they’re like, “Yeah, you know, my father had this farm.” Or, “Yeah, we used to own the store.” And in most communities, you’ll find it’s like there is a whole story about people who were principals, Blacks who were principals, when they had the all Black school, you know, when schools were segregated. You had these schools, these Black schools where the teachers, they may have had inferior equipment sometimes, but the heart and spirit of the teachers and the quality of teaching was so superb. And they cared about the kids. And the kids knew it. And somehow they were able to grow and thrive, because of that. And that’s not unique to the state of Florida. I come from a family of educators where my grandfathers, great-grandfathers, were principals. Yeah. And people knew and respected that principal—very similar to what, um, the story you hear with A. Quinn Jones. You know, here in this community. And that’s what this—doing this has taught me. I say, “Well this is similar to this story over here. But it is just a story that needs to be told.” And also I believe it, it empowers people, it empowers families in general regardless of background. To try to sit down and write their story. At least write some general information down





about their family histories. You might not get to it next week, next year, or ever, but somebody someday will come along and this will be something that they will be able to use as a guide to help them. In that journey—

V:   Yes. Yes. The—



H:   Am I putting you to sleep [Laughter]?



	V:	No, no, no, no, no. Not at all. Trust me. [Laughter]



	H:	I forgot to ask you why you were at the Infirmary today[Laughter]. I should have asked you that at the beginning.

	V:	Narcolepsy—



	H:	No, I wouldn’t do, no, I wouldn’t do.



	V:	No, it’s great. And I, I had one more question, I guess, I wanted finish up with. You seem to have a strong sense community. Obviously, you’ve very involved here in Gainesville. And with your childhood, moving to so many different places, I was curious as how that sense of community was sort of incensed in you. From your mother and father? Did you find yourself when you were in the different environments having the same sort curiosity? Or is it something that was born out of, say, scholarly, or intellectual—once you reached that level?

	H:	Probably a combination. I would say, my dad and mom, the work that they did— the work work—but then they were also solidly involved in community. And in coming up in a place like Monrovia at that time I was coming up, community was everything and the culture was everything. Relationships were very important— Wait could we stop for one second.

	V:	Sure.





[Interview interrupted to feed Dr. Hilliard-Nunn’s dog]



	H:	Storytelling. People who raised me, people who I was around, they taught us through stories. I was slow, I’ll admit it. [Laughter] I believed everything even though it’s supposed to be a lesson about life. But they would incorporate stories about family. Even my cousins and I joke to this day about stories they’d tell about they’re songs my dad used to sing that his father taught him about working on the railroad or on this ship, and they’d sing this song. “Raise ‘em up.” You know, we’ll text each other for a good joke. So there were always these stories about family incidents being repeated. People we’ve never met but we feel like we know these people because it was passed on through family history. Family history related to my grandparents, who were enslaved, some of them, who were enslaved in Georgia, who traveled. Then we were able to retrace those steps.

That just fascinated me because we have pictures of some of those people. We were able to go to the old church they were members of and see where they’re buried today. And then recently I traced them back to the general area where the plantations were, where they were enslaved in Georgia. And then we found out that my father, he had an endowed chair and so it was in the name of somebody who was very, quite wealthy from that area. So that cycle thing, “What goes around, comes around,” thing was quite interesting. But, after my father used to have a group of boys called the “Tigers,” in Liberia. And they’d do camping and those types of things, that socialization. And then my mom did those typical things, teaching swimming, always planning a program, a member of all the groups. And I just think that I just somehow got all of that and so that—I’m like I





need to cut some of it out [Laughter], which I’m cutting a lot of things out—or trying to. And then my mom was active in politics. Going back to that first Black thing: the first Black school board member in south San Francisco, California. And then in East Point, Georgia, for thirteen years, she’s the mayor in East Point, Georgia. But just always volunteering and when I started the Rites of Passage Program—there are lots things we didn’t get into, which is okay for this because we want to focus on Alachua County history as opposed to me. [Laughter] But one of the things in doing the Rites of Passage Program here in Gainesville for girls taught me—Also I worked with the senior citizens, with the Powerful Elders, but then I also worked with the children [Laughter] through these girls. And then with these other programs, I’m always with kids and elders. But I was taught that’s just what you do. And you do it—maybe I shouldn’t have been taught this part of it—but I was taught that you do it for free. [Laughter] And I’m trying to break out of that part of it now. But you do it because that’s how children learn.

And with elders, you don’t cast elders aside. And when we started the Powerful Elder group, I was community, so-called “Community Organizer” for the Community Outreach Partnership Center, under the University of Florida umbrella. And we started the Powerful Elder Organization. And I named it “Powerful Elder” on purpose because I wanted to empower those elders. And I laugh with some my friends now who worked with me, because I’m like they felt empowered. [Laughter] They were telling us what to do. We served them, they’re like, “Ohhhh!” That was like, “Woo!” Because a lot of people, initially, they weren’t comfortable with that elder—“What? Are you calling you old?” Like, “No, I’m not





calling you old.” Like, “But if you’re not I’m not going to serve you this plate.” You know [Laughter]? But, but that was what the deal was in honoring them. So before we start, we got permission and this is where that cultural element comes in. You know, because in African cultures it’s very important. Elders are very important. So we’d get permission. “So who’s the oldest person in here?” So see, once you come, you’re thinking, “I don’t want to be old.” But by the time you leave that experience I wanted people to think, “Wow, it’s pretty special to be old. I’ve been through a lot, I’ve seen a lot.” And so the oldest person raises their hand, and they we say, “We respectfully request your permission to open up our meeting today.” And, you know, first they kind of look at me like I was crazy, like, “Hmm? Okay.” And then, boy, if you didn’t ask their permission [Laughter]! And then as they started to understand they say, “You can begin.” [Laughter] They get real dramatic with it. But I saw a transformation in people, in elders, just like a saw a transformation in the girls with Rites of Passage, which also was borrowed from traditional African cultural concepts of socialization. You know, expect kids to learn things through osmosis. You teach them. This what, this is how you do this, this is how you do that. And then you give them feedback. And then on the elder end, you still do some of that, because there are still things that they’re still learning. And it’s like your life goes on. One woman just passed last year. She was 105. She’d passed. She would come, I used to pick her up for the first few years that we were doing it. And she would tell me, “Every day that you meet I will be in that car.” You know, “So you pick me up.” And then she says, “I had to go in my trunk and get my—some of my clothes.” And she had all the matching





outfits, things that she may have had since the fifties or sixties. And she would be dressed and ready. She went to church every Sunday, but she gave me the impression that she had to go get other things because all these ladies were stylin’. [Laughter] They were sharp, but the meetings. So it was that type of thing just how do you make it special for people. I like to do those types of things with the elders, these middle-school aged girls, or the little children, or the older ones. And speaking to kids at school because you asked me earlier, “Well, what age group for the film?” Well, whatever the presentation is, it’s still the same thing because those elders had some of the same issues that these other kids have.

And even the children—I’ve gone to classrooms of kindergartners. And I might wear, have happened to have traditional clothing on that day, African clothing. And the kids, and not just the Black—usually it’s classrooms filled with White kids. And they’re like, “Well, what is that? What are you wearing?” And they’re so curious. They want to know. They have no problems whatsoever with the fact that I’m dressed as—they want to know what it is. Or I might say something about the history. They just want to know. They’re kids. You know, they haven’t been shaped by a lot of the other things that other people—And then what’s the most fascinating things to me, one of the most fascinating things, is when you’re in a classroom where the parents are there. And often parents will be there when I’m speaking to the little kids or you’ll have—not all of them, but a few volunteers. And they will look at their parent when I share something like—

	V:	“Is she right?”





	H:	Yeah. Like, “Is she right?” Or, “Why didn’t you tell me this?” And then the parents have told me that they didn’t know. You know, because there’s no smoking guns I’m dropping. [Laughter] But, I guess I should correct that, maybe it is a smoking gun if you’ve been taught certain things. It is a smoking gun. And so ultimately the goal is to do—I don’t like to get into this issue of truth because scholars like to play games with that. “Oh, what is truth?” And this. But I like to do things that show the humanity of all people. Just show their humanity. And also help individuals appreciate their own humanity that comes. It’s not to dwell on anything negative, but to really to focus on those truths. And it’s been held back. We’ve ignored it for so long, and so now we really need to really to, you know, start telling those stories and you’re doing that, so. [Laughter] So—[Phone rings]

	V:	Well, thank you very much. H:	Thank you.

	V:	I think that’s a good place to wrap up.



	H:	You know, I feel—I know I’m over here and it’s hard for you— “Who are you?” But I can’t answer that, you know. So—

	V:	No, no. I don’t want to take up any more of your time.



	H:	But this, I hope that this does something, you know, I hope you do something with that.

[End of Interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Justin Dunnavant



	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019