AAHP 069; Bobbitt; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 069 Jimmy Bobbitt African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted Douglas Malenfant on September 5, 2009 32 minutes | 20 pages



Abstract: Jimmy Bobbitt was born in Harperville Mississippi, lived in Cocoa Beach, and attended a segregated elementary and High School before he transferred to Rockledge High as part of integration. After graduation, he attended community college for a week and dropped out to work as a mail clerk for Pan American Airlines on the Patrick air Force Base and lived at home. Then, his old principal came to his door and told him that UF was trying to admit additional minority students, and later matriculated at the University. At UF he found that minority groups usually didn’t associate with others.

Malenfant joined a Black fraternity, but considered himself a UF student and a Gator, not an African American student. He talks about work study programs and saving money so as not to ask his parents for extra funds. After college, he did business in the Navy, such as finance and accounting, for almost three decades.





Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida]





































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 069

Interviewee: Jimmy Bobbitt Interviewer: Douglas Malenfant Date: September 5, 2009



	M:	My name is Douglas Malenfant. Today is September 5th, 2009 and I’m speaking with Jimmy Rodges Bobbitt. Morning.

	B:	Good Morning. Or should we say afternoon? M:	It is the afternoon now.

	B:	Yeah, we started in the morning, but now it’s afternoon. That’s okay. [Laughter] M:	So, what was your educational background before coming to UF?

	B:	UF? Just high school. I graduated from Rockledge High School, down in Rockledge, Florida. That’s on the East coast near Cocoa Beach. You know, I lived in Cocoa, but I attended Rockledge High. Early years in the elementary school, I went to a segregated school. It was an all-Black school, my neighborhood elementary school. And from there, I went to a school called Monroe High, which was one of the traditional historical Black high schools in the state of Florida, Monroe High in Cocoa. But after my seventh grade year, we had desegregation. So, the Black students in Cocoa ended being split between two schools, depending on the zone. Half the kids in Cocoa went to Cocoa High from Cocoa, and the other half of the kids from Cocoa went to Rockledge High. So, I ended up going to Rockledge High, which is in Rockledge, Florida, which is right next door to Cocoa. And after Rockledge High, initially, I had intended to go to community college: Brevard Community College, BCC there, After graduating in 1971. I enrolled to go to BCC, but when I started school there, there was too many of my friends there. My old buddies hanging out in the lounge, and instead of going to class they was doing everything but. So, I withdrew after the first





week and got a job as a mail clerk for Pan American Airlines over on Patrick Air Force Base. So, I was over there working for a year. I graduated, I was seventeen, so at the time I was feeling pretty good: good job, staying at home with Mom and Dad. But one day, the assistant principal from my former high school showed up at my house and everything. And told me he needed to talk to me. So, I said “Okay!” So, he asked me to get in the car, and we sat down, and told me, he said, “Well, I know you probably out here getting in trouble. You need to get out of town and leave this place so you can do something other than what you doing right now. Hey, they have this program at the University of Florida where they’re trying to recruit additional Black students. They need more Black students up there.” Because I think, at the time, the population was twenty-eight thousand students, and they had, what, about three, four hundred Blacks at the time, out of twenty-eight thousand? [Laughter] So, they had a program where they was trying to get more minority students, so—

	M:	What year was it that you graduated high school?



	B:	I graduated in 1971, from Rockledge. I started here in [19]72. And like I said, the reason why I came here is because of this assistant principal, who didn’t forget about me. He was from our area and he came out one day to tell me about the program at UF.

	M:	How about your parents? What direction were they putting you in?



	B:	My parents? None whatsoever. I was the first one of my entire family to go to college. That includes my aunts, uncles, cousins; everybody. I was the first one to ever go to college. My mom did not graduate from high school. Essentially, it





was a single-parent family for most of the time, until my mom got married when I was thirteen. And my mom dropped out in eleventh grade. And, like I said, she was a single parent for most of my life and when I was thirteen she got married, but my stepfather was a alcoholic. He was riding around drunk all the time. Even though he had a good job as a mechanic for Pan American Airlines; those the type of guys been fixing our planes! [Laughter]

	M:	Fly too much [inaudible 3:55]. [Laughter]



	B:	That’s funny. But he was a nice guy though. But he only had a sixth grade education, believe it or not. So, no one in my family ever talked to me about college. I sort of decided to go on my own in high school. I was going go one way or other; that’s why I initially enrolled in BCC. And my goal was still to, even after working for Pan American Airlines, I was going leave home anyway to go to school some place. I was going to go to school somehow and some way. But I was just lucky enough that the assistant principal took an interest in me that one time, and convinced me to come up here. And he even filled the application out for me. He came out and said “Hey! You need to leave here. It’s kind of rough out here in the streets. I know you got a job, you’re working and stuff, you’re a good kid, but you’re going get in trouble. You’re going be in the wrong place, wrong time.” You know, he even had the application filled out for me. He say, “I filled out the application for you. All you have to do is get your parents to sign, then you sign it. And you can go.” Hey, I had a great time here! Those four years the best time of my life. I really did. And I just remember that one time that one guy took an interest in me, and it really made a difference in my life. Like I said, my





parents never talked to me about college. My parents never asked me about grades. The only advice I got, and the only advice I ever got from my stepfather was, “Stay out of jail.” That was it. They never checked my homework, they never came into any parent-teachers’ meeting. My mom, she worked twelve, sixteen hours a day. So. And I never really thought about it because when we moved—I was born in Harperville, Mississippi, okay? And we moved to Cocoa when I was five and my sister was three, and it was just the three of us. And my mom worked full-time and part-time to take care of us. She even eventually bought a house, even before she got married. She was a hard working lady; she worked.

Education-wise, no real education, but an exceptionally hard worker.



	M:	So when you came to UF, what was the climate like for an African American student?

	B:	When I came, the climate wasn’t—I would say, to me it wasn’t bad. And probably the reason why it wasn’t bad, because even though I was an African American student here, and so were the rest of us, we were sort of like a group within a group. It wasn’t any other association outside of the group. Black with the Blacks. You didn’t really associate with the other students—you know, the White students, or the Asian students, or any—it was sort of like a cohesive group within a bigger group. And I think the reason why it was like that, it wasn’t because anybody was racist; it was because we came in together. It was like, they brought the Black students in on this program, they was trying to increase— and during the summer in a group, we all stayed in dorms together. The dorm right here where all the females, Black females, stayed here, and one across, all





the Black males. So, we came in together, we all stayed in a group. So, we ended forming this friendship.

	M:	Were the dorms segregated?



	B:	No, no. It was just the program at the time. It was just for the summer. And after that, you moved on to the general population. But the initial—because you know, during the summer, most people’s home anyway, so it’s not many people on campus anyway. So, what they did was, for that program, they put us all into two dorms: the males in one, and the females in one facing it. So, we all came in together. We all stayed in the dorms together—you know, the Blacks, the Black students.

	M:	Tell me more about that program.



	B:	So, I’m trying to remember the name of it right now. I done forgot the name of it. But it was, like I said, it was [19]72 when I came in, and they had it in—it was the early [19]70s when they had it.

	M:	Was it like an introduction to the university?



	B:	No, it was an admission. It was a special program where you was admitted as a full student. As a full student, and they made assistance available for you. They tried to make sure you knew about the available student services, and academic assistance, and all that stuff. It was a program something like what my man talked about this morning: to bring you in, and also provide you some resources and some assistance while you was there, to get acclimated to the college life and everything. It was just for the African American students to try to improve their chances of succeeding and staying in school. But I done forgot the name of





the program. But because we came in like that, we soon became real close. It would be like if you come in during a timeframe and you and your roommate stay together, you and your roommate, if y’all became friends, y’all going know each other, probably hang out with each other for the rest of your time. Well it was real similar environment. So, we all ended up hanging out together and staying together. We came in together, hung out, stayed together. It wasn’t a lot of socialization outside of the group. And then, they started Black fraternities, which I joined a Black fraternity, an Omega. So. Between that—it was only one, I would say one, during my entire four years, one racial incident. And there was one night, it was during my sophomore year, there was a White student running around outside our dorms yelling racial expenditures, and using the “N” word and everything. Because he knew that my roommate was Black too, because he came in saying something that day, but we was in the regular dorm. But he knew that we stayed in this particular room. So, he was running around outside drunk, yelling racial epithets and stuff. And that was the only racist incident I had in my entire four here.

	M:	So no hostility from staff?



	B:	No. No, I didn’t experience any. And I cannot remember during the four years that we was here that there were any blown-up racial incidents. We was fairly small—we as a group, we would’ve known. We came here as a group, we operated pretty much as a group, we blended in—we did, to a certain extent, blend in with the rest of the university. And mostly, we didn’t even walk around— even though it was the early [19]70s, you mentioned desegregation, we didn’t





really run around worry about, ‘hey, we were Blacks.’ Hey, we were University of Florida students. We didn’t even really think about it. Hm. Okay?

	M:	Just more of an identification as a student?



	B:	More of an identification as a student. And we pretty much hung together mainly within the Blacks, primarily because we came in together as that big group. We came in as freshmen together; we stayed, initially, in the dorms together. These were the people we knew, we hung out with the whole summer. That sort of bonded us, and it lasted the entire four years.

	M:	So, there were no African American fraternities when you first came? B:	When we first came, no.

	M:	Tell me about how you joined.



	B:	When I got here, that’s when they decided to start the African American fraternities: the Kappas, and the Omegas, and all of that. So, I didn’t join initially, when they had the first line; I was on maybe the third line of the Omegas.

Because I wasn’t sure if I wanted to join: I had people saying “we’re going to start a line, want you to join.” So I sat back and watched first, to see what type of individuals they had in each fraternity. Because they had sort of a different identity, each fraternity. And the people that I knew, my ex roommate—you know, the guy I was rooming with when we first came in and everything—and the other people I knew that I hung out with and liked, they all mostly went Omega. And I just thought, watching all of them, they seemed like they were more just regular people, down-to-earth people. The Kappas, I think, they all started a line the same time; they thought that they were playboys and pretty boys. But see, I





didn’t identify with playboys and pretty boys; I identified with just regular guys, you know? So, that was the main reason I went Omega instead of going Kappa. Because the Kappas, the Black fraternity Kappas, they’re the guys, they have the little canes and they’d wear the hats, and they be trying to be fancy. And when they do the step shows, they use the canes and try to be fancy and stuff. So. And that was probably another thing that helped us get through, because you formed even tighter bonds there, and therefore again—and we received full support from the university. As long as we were abiding by the rules like any fraternity, we never had any problem. We never felt like we were treated any different because we were a Black fraternity. I ended up having two offices in there; I was the dean of pledges for a year, then I was the boss, was the president for my last year.

Never any problem. We needed support, we needed to use the student union, we needed this: no problem. Long as we did it according to the guidelines, we never had any issues with the university as far as support as a Black fraternity. I don’t think any of the other fraternities did, either. We never heard of any issues. You had things going on, like the Black Student Union, and so far as we could tell— we had some friends in there. I wasn’t a big proponent, I didn’t join in a lot over the tenure, but so far as we knew, they also received the full support of the student government, the university, never any incidents. So, I would say, during my four years, there was racial tension. There might have been a few isolated incidents like I told you about at my dorm that time. But that just, you have people like that. You have ignorance in all the races, Black and White. And that’s going happen from time to time. And that was more of a young kid getting drunk, too,





with some racial prejudice in there, and exhibiting. But as a whole, nah. That was the only one I know of, was that particular night. And other than that, I came, I was just a student. I was a University of Florida student, I never necessarily walked around thinking, “Hey, I’m a Black student,” or an African American student. I’m a University of Florida student, Florida Gator, you know. I’m a member of a Black fraternity. Yeah, we’re Black, that’s our racial group. But our main identity was, we were Gators. We didn’t walk around worried about publicizing that we were—. [Laughter]

	M:	Do you have children?



	B:	Yes, my daughter, she’s a captain in the Air Force. But, she didn’t even think about coming to Florida. Ahe want to go to the HBU, a Historically Black University College, HBC. So, she went to Alabama State.

	M:	So then, as a parent, what advice would you give to younger people, children, about university or college?

	B:	The first thing is that they need to consider all they options. Don’t put all the marbles in one basket. They need to decide what school they want to go to, and make a list of them, and apply to them. Because there’s no guarantee they going get in the one they really want to get into. So if they only apply to University of Florida, and they don’t get accepted, which is a good chance these days, they going be heartbroken. They need to think, there other schools out there also. And also junior college these days is becoming more and more of a viable financial alternative for many people: with the cost of stuff going up, and economic situation, junior college is a very viable option. My wife went to junior college first:





she went to Chipola, a junior college which is up in Marianna, Florida, which is right up near Tallahassee. She grew up in Seminole country. I don’t know why she—but she wanted to be a Gator, so she was here. She went to Chipola first for two years, and then she came in, did here last two years here. And it worked out very well for her, especially financially and stuff. Because she was the last of eight kids, her family was farmers; they ain’t have any money. The junior college route first, then coming here, worked out very well for her financially. I think that’s one thing that all the kids today need to look at, the junior college route, because if I’m correct, too—I don’t know if they changed the rule; it used to be that if you attained an AA degree from a junior college in Florida, you was guaranteed admission into a Florida and Florida State—you know, state colleges.

	M:	Yeah, it’s into a A-school. B:	Right.

	M:	And sometimes that can mean going to different areas.



	B:	Yes, but you’re guaranteed entrance into the school. You don’t have to worry about all the competition. To me, that’s a viable option. And the cost is a fraction of what you have here. And plus, you get to stay home, save the room and board. So, I would definitely suggest that all them put community college on their prospective list as a choice. And then, list the rest of the potential choices, keeping in mind cost, and can their parents afford it, do they have scholarships, and stuff like that. So, there’s a lot of stuff going into the equation even as far as selecting a college. We even, some kids in our family—you know, the family; my wife works a program back in her graduate chapter, she’s a Delta sorority, where





they do the debutante ball and do scholarships for kids every year. All the participants, all of them get a two-year scholarship to Brevard Community College just for participating in the ball. Brevard Community College give them about thirty scholarships every year to give to kids out in the community. These are two-year paid scholarships. But some of them, they come and participate in the ball for the experience, then they don’t want the scholarship. They talking about “I’m going to Howard,” “I’m going to Hampton,” “I’m going here and there.” Okay. Their folks don’t make any money, how you going there? And then, some of them end up going to these places, they end up coming back. Okay? It’s because they’ve gotten this set mind, for whatever reason; they heard about Howard, they heard about FAMU, they heard about University of Florida, and they got it set: that’s where they’re going. Then they either don’t get accepted, or they get there and they don’t like it. But many of don’t take anything into equation—and a number of them, too, my wife would work with. She’ll probably work with about twenty, thirty of them in the last three years. Many of them, their parents are like my parents; many of them don’t have college educations, and they’re not equipped to sit down and talk to them, help them out with that stuff.

Because I’m telling you, my folks never talked to me about college. I did it all on my own, I just went and had my mom sign the admission paper that the vice principal—. Never sit down and talk about nothing.

	M:	What did your mother think about signing it?



	B:	She probably figured it was good. Get me out of town. So, it would be like my stepfather told me, “Stay out of jail,” I guess. [Laughter] “He’s leaving here.” She





was glad for me to go, to get out, get away from some of the guys I grew up with, because some of them were definitely getting in trouble.

	M:	Were you on scholarship?



	B:	No. Believe it or not—this is funny—many of the kids I went to school with—we came in during the summer, the Black kids? A number of them was from underprivileged families. Their folks didn’t make any money, so they got grants. Free money. But my folks made too much money for me to get a grant. Between my Mom working a full-time and a part-time job, and my stepfather being a mechanic; Pan American Airline paid him real good because he was with them for twelve years as an airplane mechanic, he made real good money. So.

	M:	My grandfather worked for Pratt & Whitney.



	B:	Yeah, so, made too much money. So, I went off student loans and work study, that was it. I never once called home for money from my folks. My mom, they took care of my insurance for my car, but other than that, I paid my entire way through college. My folks, not one penny. That one year that I worked over there for Pan American Airlines after I dropped out of community college, and I worked for Pan American Airlines as a mail clerk, I saved my money. And I’d been saving my money for years, so I had money in the bank. When I came, I had a nice little bank account, I had a fairly new car. I did all that myself, because I’d been working part-time. I ran track and played basketball, but I used to work every summer over at the bank, or a janitor at the school. I worked every summer, and even part-time during the school year when I wasn’t playing sports. And I wasn’t spending the money. So, I had some money in the bank. I bought my own car,





first car I ever had, I bought it when I was sixteen because I was saving my money up. Folks signed for it. Before I left to come up here, I went and traded in, got me another car. All that, I paid for. And I came up here, packed my car, came on up, started school. Never—like I said, I never once called home for money. I worked part time; the student work program you got here? Yeah, I did that every year. My first job, I was over at the computer center, it was back in the day when we had key punches. We had the big main frame and we did key punching. For the first year I was here, I worked part time over there, twenty hours a week key punching, making money. And my student loan paid for my other stuff. Student loan paid for the tuition and books. My key punching job and money I had in the bank helped, used that to pay for my room and board and food. I remember those many days when, lot of times, my roommates and I and those guys, we always had peanut butter, jelly, and light bread in our room. Every now and then, “Hey, we got some money,” we might cook something. And if we got really hungry and broke, we would go over to the girls and look pitiful, and they would always feed us, because the girls always had food! [Laughter] I don’t know why! They always had food. Us guys, man; peanut butter and jelly, we good to go.

With some milk. But we’d go over there and hang around Graham Hall or something, and some of the females we know, man, they looking: “Ah, you guys over here again, huh? Come on up.” They’ll feed us and stuff. So, it was pretty good. But we never really thought about it during that timeframe.

	M:	You tell me you had a lot of fun at the university here. Can you tell me some stories about what was so fun about it?





	B:	I had a great time. I think the great time was because of the people. I met a lot of nice people. Okay? Many of us had the same desire. We came here for the same reason: to get an education, to hang out and just enjoy life. But I met a lot of nice people. I found that in life, a lot of time, it’s not what you’re doing, it’s who you’re doing it with and who you’re around. It just like for a job, I did twenty-seven years in the Navy. And I transferred a lot, you know? I moved thirteen years, and had a whole bunch of different jobs, because in the military, you move a lot, change jobs. And there was many jobs I enjoyed, some I really didn’t care for, but most of the time, the jobs I enjoyed, it wasn’t necessarily because the job was easy or anything; it’s because they’re a lot nicer people. The people were nicer and easier to work with. And so, when I got here, it was the same thing. It was just a lot of nice people. And I meet then now, man, and it’s like wow! Because I’ve been gone. You know, I left and was gone for thirty-five years before I came back in 2005. And I run into some of them again, man, it just like—we have some of the same feelings. We hugging and all the other stuff, shaking hands, and it’s because they were nice people. I liked them. We got along. We enjoyed doing the same things, and that type of stuff. So, it was really because I met a lot of nice people. I definitely had a good time with my fraternity brothers. We have an alumni, we come back here now every two years when we have an alumni. The undergrad chapter sets it up for a lot of us guys; brothers from the [19]70s and [19]80s, we all come back and we have an alumni get-together and everything.

We try to stay in contact. But, good people. Probably one of the best things for most of us red-blooded young Americans: well, there was a lot of women here!





[Laughter] I hate to tell you, but that’s one of the main reasons I got here. The assistant principal came out to my house with the application, I said, “Why should I want to leave to go to the University of Florida right now? I got a good job.” I was making good money for a young kid. I ain’t have any bills, I was putting my money away. You know? Nice job, because I worked for some nice people over on the base. I said, “Why should I go now, man? I’m doing good. I got benefits and everything.” I was just seventeen, graduated high school when I was seventeen. He said, “Well, you know they party all the time.” I said, “Well, we party back here too.” He say, “Well, you know they got probably about fourteen, fifteen thousand young females there?” “Where I sign up at? Give me the application!” When he came, you know—when you’re trying to convince somebody to do something, you need to figure out what motivates them. Okay? And a seventeen-year-old at that time, for most seventeen, eighteen-year-olds, you start talking to them about the benefits of college, and the technical aspect, or professional aspect, they don’t identify with that. But you start talking to them about partying and females? They identify. This my daughter calling from overseas.

	M:	Okay.



[Break in recording 24:54]



	M:	If you had a the chance, what would you do differently at UF?



	B:	If I had a chance to do it over again, I would probably start off being conscientious because when I first got here, I sort of just cruised my freshman year. I didn’t really take my academics seriously. I really didn’t take my





academics seriously until right before I was going into my junior year, where I started realizing, “Hey, I need to graduate and get a job.” So, I buckled down. My first year and my sophomore year, I think I had mostly Cs and a couple Ds in there. But then when I decided to buckle down, my junior and senior year I had pretty much all As with a few Bs, because I decided to get serious. So, that’s one thing I would change: I would come in and start off serious from the time I got here.

		M:		What would you wish would be different about UF? B:	About UF?

	M:	From the administration—



	B:	Nothing. Like I told you, during my time at UF, I don’t remember having any problems with the administration or anything else. I don’t remember thinking or encountering any incident where I thought my race was a factor. Pretty much, I came here, I went to school, I went to class. And like I say, whenever I was a member of things where I needed support from the administration, I normally received it. Like when I told you I held offices in the fraternity, such as the president, we received all the support we needed. Even when I came in, I came in in the program, they had basic assistance open for us to utilize if we needed it, as far as study habits and a whole bunch of other stuff. I never utilized it; I just became a student, you know? [Laughter] So, even though they offered they program, I didn’t use it. But it was there for us. The only thing as far the school go, there’s nothing that happened during my timeframe that I would change.

Today’s times are different than it was back there, but during my timeframe I





can’t remember anything. Today, they have the crunch where they got more students than openings, technologies here. There’s a lot of things going on these days that wasn’t going on—life was a lot simpler back in 1972! [Laughter] I don’t remember having many problems as far as the administration, as far as admissions, far as support programs. It was there. If you wanted to use it, it was there. And whenever I needed it, I got it. So, there’s no changes. The only change I could see is for myself as far as coming in and being serious from the get-go, as far as a student.

	M:	Mmhm, that’s good advice. Is there something else you’d like to talk about? Add? B:	Well, one thing—

	M:	That I haven’t asked you already.



	B:	One thing that probably—when I go back to maybe coming in to the university— is career counseling. It’s just one thing that I noticed throughout my career. I noticed that after I got out of college and other places. There are many kids that came in with me, and myself, we didn’t really have anybody to sit down and talk to us about different careers. We sort of just picked a field. And many people picked fields that they thought they would like. They weren’t employable when they got out of school. Such as literature, philosophy, and stuff like that; they only good if you’re going to become a PhD-type professor. Because if you not going do PhD-type professor—you know, a B.A., you’re not going get a job. I had guys majoring in Philosophy. Plato and stuff. And Music History. Many of them did that. It would go back to those antics where you here a lot of the time, they talking about lot of the—used to be, I think it’s changed—lot of our football





players, they take basket weaving just so they can stay academically eligible and play football because they plan on going to the pros. I had some people to come in, and that’s what they did. And when they really did get their B.A. they couldn’t use it. I got mine in Education. And I probably got mine in education mainly because, when I grew up in Cocoa, during that time, the only Black professionals we had in town were teachers. There were no Black lawyers. It’s changed today; there was no Black lawyers, no Black doctors, no Black business men, none.

You had the teachers. Black teachers were the only Black professionals. And those were the only ones that I knew. I sort of picked being in education by default there, because that’s all I knew as far as Black professionals, because I hadn’t really sat down and thought about any other profession or anything else. After I left here, as a matter of fact, I did change. When I left here, I joined the Navy and I was going get a master’s in Systems Analysis, which—computers, which I was fairly good in, because I worked over at the computer center. And that’s why I worked over there. I ended not getting it, but I ended up getting an MBA, and I did business in the Navy: finance and accounting, contracting, budget, retail sales, food service, all of that stuff. Process management. So, I did business for twenty-seven years in the Navy, I was a business manager. But I initially came in Florida to become an education person, because that’s all I knew. No one really talked to me about careers or anything. Like I told you, my folks didn’t have any education, so they couldn’t talk to me about it, because they only advice was, “Get a job and stay out of jail.” [Laughter] So, that was one area. And that was just me; some of the other Blacks who came here probably





was a little bit better, a little bit more fortunate. I know some of them, they were in accounting. Matter of fact, one of them is a big-time executive in D.C. right now. He was one of my frat brothers, too, so I see him all the time. And one of them also went into accounting, he has thirteen McDonald franchises. He was one of my frat brothers, too. Them two was in accounting. We had some lawyers come out, some of my frat brothers who came on and they're lawyers. But there was that small group there that majored in basket weaving. [Laughter] But, so I’m not sure. The mechanism for at least telling you about the different careers and employment opportunities there, “What do you—?” Because normally, you do an assessment to try to determine what the person’ interest is and what they capable of doing. Then you sit down, talk to the different professional area, what the earning potential is: money and employment opportunities. We never did any of that. That is something that probably needs to done. Therefore, you don't have a young person going into a field for four years, and then they get the degree, then they can't get a job. Or they got to go work in some field that's totally unrelated to what they have the degree in.

	M:	Should we end here?



	B:	Yeah, we can end. Yeah. [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Justin Dunnavant



	Audit edited by:	Ryan Morini, August 8, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 18, 2019