AAHP 107; Bollet; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 107 Isabella Diane Taylor Bollet African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on August 7, 2010 34 minutes | 20 pages



Abstract: Isabella Diane Taylor Bollet grew up in Norristown, Pennsylvania, raised by a father from Norristown and a mother from Jacksonville, Florida. She describes her family history, including various aspects of their collective mixed-race heritage, and also describes growing up in Norristown, and also her activities with the NAACP there. In 1961, she moved to Hawaii.





Keywords: [African American History; Montgomery County, Pennsylvania; NAACP; Civil Rights Movement]







Standards:





SS.912.A.5.7 National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) SS.912.A.7.5 Social activism

SS.912.A.2.5 Jim Crow laws































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 107

Interviewee: Diane Taylor Bollet Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: August 7, 2010



	W:	All right, and just like that, so it begins. B:	So it begins.

	W:	This is Marna Weston of the Sam Proctor Oral History Program of the University of Florida, on August 7, 2010, and I’m speaking with Miss Diane Bollet.

	B:	Yes.



	W:	Thank you very much for agreeing to do this interview. B:	You’re very welcome.

	W:	This is part of a family reunion being held in the city of Gainesville and we are at the Last Chance something. The Last Chance, it’s a restaurant, café; a local business in Gainesville. Thank you again for doing the interview.

	B:	You’re welcome.



	W:	Would you please state your full name? B:	Yes.

	W:	From birth.



	B:	Okay, from birth my full name is Isabella Diane Taylor, maiden name, family name-Taylor. Married name, Bollet.

	W:	Okay. And what is your date of birth? B:	September 4, [19]34

	W:	And where were you born? B:	Norristown, Pennsylvania.

	W:	Okay. Where is Norristown located? B:	Twenty miles from Philadelphia.





	W:	Okay. North, south? B:	North, north.

	W:	Twenty miles north of Philadelphia. B:	Yes.

	W:	And you are not an only child because I met your sister, but how many brothers and sisters do you have?

	B:	There’s six of us; six.



	W:	And what are their names?



	B:	The oldest boy, who is now deceased, is Nelson. Nelson was 72, 72; two years older than myself. I’m next in line, I’m Diane age, now, 75. Next was Wesley.

Wesley lives in Germany. He is age 69. And after that comes Marcel Owena, who is age 63, followed by Rosemary, who is 60. And followed by Milton, who is 59.

	W:	Where did the six of you grow up? B:	Norristown, PN.

	W:	Okay, and how would you describe growing up with your brothers and sisters?



What was that like?



	B:	Well it was different because I was from the first set of kids, the first three that were born were fifteen years difference between the first three and the latter three. Yeah, I was a teenager when the first child was born. So I helped to care for the three younger ones.





	W:	What accounted for that gap? Because usually when you hear of a lot of kids, they tell you 10-13 kids, all just born eighteen years apart; just boom boom boom boom.

	B:	I’m not really sure, but I think that there was some disagreement between our parents.

	W:	Okay. And who were your parents?



	B:	Mother was Isabelle Rosella McCullum. W:	And do you recall her date of birth?

	B:	Date of birth, yes. October 10, 1913. W:	And where was she born?

	B:	Jacksonville, Florida. W:	Okay.

	B:	Yes.



	W:	And your dad?



	B:	My dad was George W. Taylor, born in Norristown, PA. Date of birth was 1901.



December 24, 1901. And mother’s date of birth I gave already, yeah.



	W:	Uh-huh. Do you know how they met? B:	Yes.

	W:	Her being from Jacksonville, him being from Pennsylvania there’s got to be a story there.

	B:	Yeah. The McCullum family left Jacksonville and moved to Pennsylvania, for fame and fortune, right. This was back in 1914, 1913. Right, that’s how they came to Pennsylvania. So mom and dad met in Norristown, Pennsylvania.





	W:	What was the fame and fortune attraction, or lure? I didn’t know Pennsylvania rolled like that.

	B:	[Laughter]



	W:	What was supposed to be there? [Laughter]



	B:	I said that. I said, “fame and fortune.” No, just a better way of life. Yeah, cause that was in the deep segregation time here in Florida.

	W:	Uh-huh.



	B:	And my mother’s father was a lawyer and could not practice law because of the segregation, so they decided to move up north to Pennsylvania.

	W:	We talk about your mom’s family for a second? Are you familiar with her mother and father?

	B:	Yes I did-



	W:	And there names?



	B:	I did remember them. W:	Okay.

	B:	The mother, the grandmother, was Maggie Del Nelson McCullum. Her maiden name was Nelson. And the father was James W. McCullum—the lawyer.

	W:	And they were from the Jacksonville area? B:	Yeah. They lived in Jacksonville. Yes.

	W:	And he was an attorney? B:	He was an attorney, yes.

	W:	Do you ever recall, or do you have memories of speaking to your grandfather about his business? What he did or what his daily life was like?





	B:	No he did not. I was only four years old when I knew my grandmother and grandfather. They died somewhere in the year 1938-39, they died close together. Grandmother first, grandfather second. But like six months apart, they died, right.

	W:	As what frequently happened.



	B:	That’s right, frequently happen. And we believe now that it was heart disease. W:	Uh-huh.

	B:	Because heart disease is very prevalent in the family, as it is in many African American families.

	W:	Uh-huh.



	B:	My blood pressure, heart disease. It’s there, it’s there. Also diabetes, right. W:	What about your dad’s family? Are you as familiar with them?

	B:	My dad’s family, I don’t know that much about them, but my father’s father—my grandfather—was a Caucasian from what they called the “Dutch country,” which actually was German people, living in Pennsylvania. And I remember meeting him one time, my grandfather—my father’s father.

	W:	What was his name?



	B:	His name was Jonathan Taylor. W:	Uh-huh.

	B:	Yeah, Jonathan Taylor. And he was a very small man. I remember him, very small in a grey suit, and he came to the house for dinner one time.

	W:	Uh-huh.



	B:	Never saw him again.





	W:	Do you have any other memories beside what he was wearing in the dinner of your grandfather, the impression of that meeting?

	B:	Oh, he was very uncomfortable. I remember that. He didn’t say very much, he just sat, but he didn’t talk very much. He seemed very, like he was in the wrong place. Yeah.

	W:	Uh-huh.



	B:	Now what can I say, he was White. He was Caucasian, and we were African— American, or we were the “colored people” as we were called then. [Laughter] That always makes me laugh when I hear that. The colored people. [Laughter]

	W:	But it’s amazing that you would have this impression of him being uncomfortable. B:	Yeah, I do.

	W:	Now your grandmother?



	B:	My grandmother on my father’s side? W:	On your father’s side.

	B:	Was Rose Taylor, and she was half Native American Indian. And I’m not sure of the tribe that she was from but she was very dark skin, small frame, long black straight hair.

	W:	Uh-huh.



	B:	Yeah, and she was a stroke victim. W:	Oh okay.

	B:	Paralyzed in one side, and was in a chair. Not a wheelchair, they didn’t have people in wheelchairs then. So I was like between seven, seven and eight years old. I would go to the store for her to buy pain medicine, Bufferin. I remember





Bufferin, it was like in those days ten cents. And then I could keep the change from the quarter.

	W:	So you saw a lot of her but only met him that one time?



	B:	That one time for him, yes. She lived next door to us, we lived in a house, twin houses, and grandma lived in the house next door to us.

	W:	So they did not share domicile?



	B:	They did not, no they did not. He was up in another area, my grandfather. He was up. They called it, they referred to it as the “Dutch country” and now I think, I’ve learned now, that it was the Amish country in Pennsylvania. Are you familiar with the Amish?

	W:	The Pennsylvania Dutch.



	B:	The Pennsylvania Dutch, right yeah.



	W:	And I’ve seen that movie Witness that everyone uses to identify the Amish. B:	You’ve seen that, that’s right. That’s right yes. Okay.

	W:	Do you have any sense of what the story behind the relationship was, that he would live far away and she lived close outside of, maybe just the idea that maybe it was something because of their ethnicity difference? Do you have any other sense of it?

	B:	I don’t really have anything other than that she was a stroke victim. W:	Okay

	B:	And I think he may have moved away because of that. Because she had a daughter, she was living with one of her daughters that was sort of her caretaker.

	W:	Okay.





	B:	That’s about all I can remember. No one talked about that. People didn’t talk about things. We talk about things now, but in those days, that generation of people, everything was tight—tight, little, tight, little. But, I do remember those people.

	W:	So you lived in a multi-generational home with your brothers and sisters and your mom and dad. What was it like living in that home? Did you have chores-

	B:	Yes.



	W:	Were there animals, did you grow your own food?



	B:	No we didn’t do any growing of the food, no. The food all came from the supermarket.

	W:	Okay.



	B:	We did have a dog. We had a dog. Let’s see my older brother, two years older than I, he eventually—oh listen, that’s my phone; hold on.

	W:	Okay.



	B:	That’s my phone!



	W:	I knew that wasn’t my phone. [Laughter]



	B:	Who’s calling me? [Interruption by phone call].



	W:	So all your food came from the grocery store. There was no local food production or anything like that?

	B:	No I think some of our neighbors had a low patch maybe in their backyard, but my mother loved flowers, she had flowers. She didn’t have any vegetables growing.





	W:	Now, as far as your chores, did you do any cooking, or cleaning? What kind of chores did you have?

	B:	Mom did, mom did the cleaning. I did some cleaning. As I got older I did the cleaning on Saturday. Saturday was cleaning day.

	W:	Uh-huh. What about your brothers and sisters?



	B:	Brothers didn’t do too much, no no. Now the sisters, remember I said two sets of kids right, they were all younger than I was yeah. I’m the diaper changing, I helped take care of them. They didn’t do any cooking or cleaning, no. I did the cleaning on Saturdays. My mom was a stay at home mom, she didn’t work, yeah.

	W:	What did your dad do?



	B:	Dad was a private chauffeur for a, I don’t want to say rich I guess, I can say wealthy family; one of the old families, white people, Caucasian people in the town. And he was a private chauffeur. There was only one left though, the wife was, everyone else had died and there was one lady. And he would also, sort of took care of her—her needs, taking her, driving her to the grocery store, doctors, or wherever she needs to go. Again? Excuse me. [Interruption by phone]. Sorry about that.

	W:	Oh that’s no problem, I guess being from Hawaii, you feel you need to be available to your relatives.

	B:	Yeah. Let’s see now.



	W:	You were talking about your dad.



	B:	My dad, my dad yeah. He was a private chauffeur. And I learned later on, that he had been trained as a house man. He did the chores in the house for this same





Walt—to—do family. He did cooking, cleaning, and everything. So then, when he and my mom got together he did the same in our house. Excuse me

	W:	No problem. [Interruption by phone]

	W:	They must all be excited about you being state sided.



	B:	Yeah! She wanted to drive over here, she lives in New Melbourne. W:	She needed to start three and a half hours ago.

	B:	And I told her, I said, it’s a long drive. Anyway, we did get to talk to each other so that’s that. Now back to our –

	W:	How long did your dad work for that family? B:	Let’s see, I’d say about fifty years.

	W:	Uh-huh.



	B:	Because dad died at age 59, and he was a boy when he first worked with that family as a house boy, so I’d say about fifty years he worked for that family, wow.

	W:	Now how about your mother, is she still with you? B:	No, she passed in [20]05.

	W:	Okay, I’m very sorry for your loss.



		B:	She passed in [20]05. She was living with me in Hawaii. I went to Pennsylvania, and brought her back to Hawaii	and she lived with me for three years. I was her caretaker. She had dementia, and then she passed in [20]05 in Hawaii. And then she was sent back to Pennsylvania for her funeral service. Yes.

	W:	I did ask you about chores, so let me ask you about our earliest memory of education. Where did you first go to school? Where were you first educated?





	B:	I went to Gotwals School in Norristown, Pennsylvania. Grade 1 through grade three. Then we, the family, moved to another address in another part of town, and I went to Hancock Elementary School; grade three up to grade, when does elementary school end?

	W:	Sometimes six, sometimes eight. Depending if you’re in middle school.



	B:	Six, six that’s right. Six, end of the grade six then went to Rittenhouse Junior High School for three years and then to Norristown High School where I graduated in 1952.

	W:	Uh-huh.



	B:	Yeah!



	W:	What teacher, in your elementary and secondary education had the most impact upon you?

	B:	Ms. Andes.



	W:	Okay and what was the subject? B:	Grade one.

	W:	Grade one?



	B:	Grade one, yeah.



	W:	Why Ms. Andes?



	B:	Because she was like a, like my mother. She just acted like my mother acted.



And she was very kind and caring, yeah.



	W:	Uh-huh.



	B:	And a lot of hands on, she would come and touch you on the shoulder. That was grade one, I remember that.





	W:	Now we have a legacy of segregated education in this country. B:	Yes.

	W:	But you were raised in the north, so I was asking what was it like?



	B:	Mixed school. Mixed school, integrated school; all the way up until graded school.

	W:	Neighborhoods as well? B:	Neighborhoods—

	W:	Were your neighbors Black and White and other ones?



	B:	No, no they were segregated neighbors. There were neighborhoods that were all White and neighborhoods that were all colored.

	W:	Okay.



	B:	Yeah. Very few neighborhoods had mixture; were integrated. Very few. W:	But in the school system it wasn’t.

	B:	School system was integrated, yeah.



	W:	When you finished high school, what did you do? Did you go on to college? Did you go to work?

	B:	Yes. I went to college for one year. W:	Where did you go to school?

	B:	I went to Cheyney State Teachers College, located in Cheyney Pennsylvania, near Westchester.

	W:	Okay.



	B:	Okay.



	W:	Why Cheyney State?





	B:	Why Cheyney State? Because I was sent there by one of my aunts, she had gone there. And she thought that was only school in the world to go to. She became a teacher and she paid for me to go there, okay. But what happened, was my dad got sick and I had to come home to take care of the three younger kids so that mom could go to work. Mom had never worked before. But she had to go to work in order to, support the family—the kids.

	W:	What jobs did she end up taking?



	B:	She ended up working as an attendant at Norristown State Mental Hospital.



Norristown is known for its mental hospital. It’s a huge city. And almost everyone in the town who wanted a job worked at the state hospital, yes.

	W:	Did you get to go back to school, or did that break mean that you never went back?

	B:	No, I never went back to school. After I stayed home a while, I took care of the younger kids, and I just kind of didn’t want, just kind of lost interest in going to school. Now that I look back in hindsight I should have gone back to school, no matter what was happening with the rest of the people I should have found a way to go back to school, and gotten my education, became a teacher, life would have been a lot easier for me. It didn’t happen that way.

	W:	How long did you end up staying at home as a caretaker for the younger brothers and sisters?

	B:	I was there for, let’s say, about ten years.



	W:	Wow, so from [19]52 to [19]62 almost you would say?





	B:	Almost, yeah. [19]52, high school,[19] 52 to about [19]60. No, wait a minute. For about [19]58—[19]59.

	W:	Okay.



	B:	Because I left Pennsylvania in ’61 to come to Hawaii.



	W:	What happened in [19]59 that ended your situation of caretaking? B:	I got married.

	W:	Okay, okay. So you didn’t go to the service, you didn’t go back to school, you got married

	B:	I got married.



	W:	How did that come about? How did you meet the person that you married?



	B:	I met the person at a dance, he was a Norristown person right. And he was a few years older than I was.

	W:	Uh-huh.



	B:	And he was not a good candidate for marriage. W:	Okay.

	B:	But I didn’t know that at the time. I had been told that, but you can’t tell a 19 year old anything because they will not believe you. Right?

	W:	Yeah that’s true.



	B:	[Laughter]



	W:	Now do you feel comfortable sharing who he was or would you rather just leave it?

	B:	Yeah, yeah I can share. I have no problem. W:	Okay. What was his name?





	B:	His name was Fred Mccour. And he was, like I said, a Norristown family, and he had several brothers and sisters. And he was a disabled vet. He had been in World War II, right. Disabled vet, he had some intestinal damage and had a series of surgeries, so he was on 100% disability. He did not work. He was never going to work anymore. Right, okay. Of course I knew all this before we got married, but at age 19, 20, you just don’t, like I say, good hindsight. Never should have happened. Never should have happened.

	W:	How had he been injured? Do you know where it took place?



	B:	In Germany. I heard later on that it had happened over in Germany where he had been stationed, yeah.

	W:	So what happened? Did you have children, did the marriage got take? And it just ended rather quickly?

	B:	He had been married before, he was divorced. He had one child from his first marriage. But he and I had no children.

	W:	Did you have any connection at all with his previous family? Is child’s wife? B:	I knew who they were but I had no connection with them.

	W:	Looking back on it, at the time, the wisdom, the life experience you’ve gained, why didn’t the marriage take?

	B:	Well, because he had become addicted to prescription drugs. And I didn’t know anything about drug addiction at the time. That was the major problem, because the money, the household money, was going for the drugs. And I was working at the time, in fact I had a very good job, I was a state employee, working at the





state mental hospital. I worked in the office as an office clerk. And in those days, that was considered a great job.

	W:	It’d be a good job right now. [Laughter]



	B:	A state job, right, with all the benefits, right. W:	Definitely.

	B:	But I had no money, because the money was always being used for prescription drugs, right.

	W:	So when did the marriage end?



	B:	The year I think about, about [19]60—1960 yeah. It was a short marriage, just about three years that’s all.

	W:	Fascinating you changed in 1960. Before we get to Hawaii, that’s where we’re going next, I just want to ask you, what were your impressions of the country during that period of time? Because a lot of people talk about how when Eisenhower was president, when Kennedy was president, when the president said something, you just believed it. And did you have any sense of the change that was staking place with the lunch counter sit-ins, or any of those things?

	B:	Oh yes I did. I was a member of the NAACP. In fact, I was the secretary for NAACP in Norristown. And we had all of that information. In fact, we even did a sympathy demonstration for the lunch counter sit-ins, we did. And most of the people in the town told us not to do it, we were going to be arrested, “What are you doing that for?” They didn’t understand what the sympathy sit in was about. They just didn’t understand, they didn’t get it. They didn’t get it, yeah. But we did that. Of course there were several police cars that circled around as we were





carrying up picket signs, I can still see them. They didn’t say a word, they didn’t say a word, but they just drove slowly, slowly by. We were in front of F.W. Woolworth’s store. That’s where we were holding our picket sympathy. And the NAACP told us to do this. They wanted all chapters nationwide to hold this sympathy demonstration.

	W:	What were your feelings at that time about what was taking place in February, 1960? You were obviously picketing. Were you personally invested in the struggle at that time?

	B:	Yeah I guess I was. I just remember feeling very, very angry that this thing was happening to the people in the southern states. I just felt very angry about it. And I was willing to demonstrate to show that I was against the segregation. Yeah.

	W:	Is that why you joined NAACP? Or were you in NAACP before that? B:	I was in it before. I had joined several years before.

	W:	Why did you join the NAACP in the 1950s?



	B:	Because segregation was there, and I wanted to be a part of this organization that was going to fight the segregation, yeah. Cause all my life I heard about it, the segregation in the southern states. I had never been south, I went to Maryland, the state of Maryland, somewhere in the mid-[19]50s. And we were driving, driving in the car, I was with my first husband’s family, that’s how it was because they were from Maryland. And driving along, and everyone’s thirsty, they wanted a drink, they pull up to the store, and there I saw it. The sign that said, “Colored: use the back door.” And I flipped out, and I said, “No, no, no. I





cannot go in the back door in this store. I can’t do it. If you all want to do it, you do it. I don’t want it. I don’t want to drink anything out of that store,” and I didn’t.

	W:	And that was the first time you saw it?



	B:	I was in the car, first time I saw the sign. They went in the back door, they did because they wanted a drink, came out, they went in, but I was not going to go in that store.

	W:	And what year was that?



	B:	I think that was around [19]56—[19]57. Yeah, somewhere there.



	W:	So, in some ways that incident kind of defined who you became, what you thought about, and how you lived your life.

	B:	Yeah, right, right.



	W:	Do you feel that you became a leader or exercised any leadership skills for some of these experiences?

	B:	No, I don’t really think I did. I don’t really think I became a leader in any way.



Talking about it maybe. I’ve talked a lot about it to people, whoever, whenever it came up I would always talk about it. And I would always relate the story about what I had seen in Maryland, yeah and how I have never gone to any of the southern states and that was the reason I had never gone, I had been invited by friends, many of the friends in Norristown had come from the southern states mainly South Carolina and Alabama, and of course they invite you to come over with them in the summer time, but I never wanted to go down south.

	W:	Do you have a personal definition of what leadership is, and if so what would that be?





	B:	Well I would say to try to share my experiences with people, encourage them to, educate themselves. Look towards having a better life with education would be what I would say leadership and persevering. If you’re talking with someone, leading them, the way you’re leading them into something better by sharing your experience with them, yeah. Because many things are not known by, say, the younger generation, they just don’t have a clue. Yeah, so.

	W:	Do you personally or does your family profess a particular religion? B:	Yes, yes.

	W:	Religious practices? And what would those be? B:	Episcopal, Episcopalians.

	W:	Okay.



	B:	Yeah we attended an Episcopalian church. Yes.



	W:	And for you what does attending an Episcopalian church, and being of that faith mean? With relationship to your family and things like that.

	B:	I would say they, the family, my mother’s family—originally, they were Baptists people, here in Jacksonville, Florida. They were Baptists; they came to Norristown, PA. They were Baptists, went to a Baptists church but then somehow my mother, my mother and her sisters seemed to want to go to the Episcopal church, I think their thinking was that it was a better church, it was better. It was more sophisticated. The way they would talk about it. They didn’t like the Baptists church because the people got very noisy, carried away, shouting out, and that kind of thing. And these people were a more quiet, sophisticated than that. That’s the way I understood it, yeah.





	W:	Well this is such a delightful interview, I’ve been instructed to kind of wrap it up with you.

	B:	Okay.



	W:	But we kind of just scratched the surface. I would love to come back and speak with you again, especially about Hawaii and your transformation, your continuing life journey there. But for now, on behalf of the Oral History Program of the University of Florida, like to thank you so much for taking this time.

	B:	You’re welcome.



	W:	I like to conclude my interviews by offering the person I’m speaking with the chance to make any point they like to make. It can be something about the interview, or something about the future, and at the end of those comments that would conclude the interview; whatever you like to say.

	B:	Well I enjoyed having the interview and I hope that it will be helpful to you or to your program, or to anyone yeah. I don’t really have anything else to say about it, I’d like to continue it sometime yeah. I’m only here for a short time though, I don’t know if that’s possible, but I could do it by phone maybe, yeah. Okay. And that’s all I can say except Aloha. Okay?

[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by	Jennifer Romero, October 13, 2015 Audit-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, September 15, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 18, 2019