AAHP 097; Hall; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 097 Sarah McCray Hall African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Anna Brodrecht on August 21, 2010 38 minutes | 23 pages



Abstract: Sarah McCray Hall describes attending Jerkins High School in Perry, Florida; she was a valedictorian, a member of the chorus, and an athlete. She talks about her family life growing up in Perry, and the values and discipline instilled in her in school and at home. She also describes what segregation was like in Perry, and how she learned to navigate it in her life. She also recalls seeing Ray Charles perform when he was still a young musician not widely known. Ms. Hall reflects on some of the societal changes she has seen over her lifetime.





Keywords: [African American History; Taylor County, Florida; Jerkins High School; Segregation]

















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 097

Interviewer: Sarah McCray Hall Interviewee: Anna Brodrecht Date: August 21, 2010



	B:	So, we’ll start with our names: I’m Anna Brodrecht from the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program, and I’m with:

	H:	Sarah McCray Hall.



	B:	How do you spell your last name?



	H:	I’ve been married three times; two deceased husbands. B:	And McCray is M-C-R-A-E?

	H:	M-small C-capital C-R-A-Y. B:	Okay.

	H:	I attended Jerkins High School from first grade through twelfth. I was a valedictorian of the class. I also was a member of the chorus; I was a cheerleader, played on the varsity basketball team. In those days, girls didn’t grow very tall, so it didn’t matter about your heighth. Going to school was a joy. Mostly because we were poor, there was nowhere else to go but school and church. So, school was our outlet for learning, adventure, and having fun. So, we enjoyed going to school.

	B:	And what years were you at Jerkins? H:	I graduated in 1952.

	B:	So, that was long before desegregation. H:	Oh, yes.

	B:	This school desegregated in [19]70? Was that right? H:	1970 was when they closed the school.

	B:	Oh, okay. And then, when did they desegregate it?





	H:	I can’t remember the year, but they started I think a couple of years before it was closed. They started talking about it, and busing kids into the school. I’m not accurate on that, because I didn’t keep up with it at that time.

	B:	Right, you were gone.



	H:	Right, I were gone. [Laughter]



	B:	You had graduated. Did you stay around in Perry afterwards?



	H:	I was born and raised in Perry. So, I been here all my life. School was an adventure to us. And I know you’ve heard so many times about how we had to use used textbooks, with part of the textbooks torn out; hand-me-down typewriters; football outfits that were torn and raggedy. But we had a very, very good football team. We had a very good band. We won a few games, basketball and football. And we also graduated a lot of kids who really had success. The thing I remember mostly about school was the values that we were taught. We went to school in a hall that was called K.P. Hall. It was upstairs. It was the Masonic hall. And it was quite right [audio drops out momentarily at 2:44]—to used what you call little red-hot heaters. And we used those things up [inaudible 2:49], because of the cold weather. When it was cold then, it was cold! The ground stayed crisp for weeks. And you had to walk to school. You couldn’t be tardy. And if you didn’t, you got punished.

	B:	What was the punishment?



	H:	You got a beating in your hand. Your hands cold. Coming from your house, it wasn’t much better than school. You can imagine how you felt if you were late and were going get a whipping. And then, if you went home and didn’t do good in





class, you might get another one. [Laughter] But it wasn’t, like, brutal; it was discipline. Because you knew why you were getting punished. And it also was teaching you to be better at what you were doing. Because even to this day, I’m still on time. I don’t believe in being late. If I’m going somewhere, more than likely I’m going to be early. I learned to value what you have. Not because this is all you want, but this is what you got now. My grandmother was a God-fearing lady. So, she taught us values, that if you be thankful for a little, that the Lord bless you to have more. That value has stuck with me. If you’re not going to take care of what you got now, then there’s a possibility that you not going to take care what you get later. Good character. Good Christian character was valuable to us, and still is. That’s what I taught my kids. I had six kids. I did marry, had six kids.

They all graduated from high school. I had one or two that completed college. So, didn’t do too bad by myself. I was a divorcee, but I didn’t do too bad.

B:  [Laughter] That’s great. What do you remember about growing up in Perry? You talked about your house a little bit. You mentioned that it was about the same as the school. Could you describe your house?

	H:	It was a two-bedroom house, just a regular-built house. Not sealed, completely sealed. We had no running water part of the time, when we were there. After I graduated, my mom did get city water. But we had pump water.

	B:	Now was that because it was rural?



	H:	Not necessarily. We lived in the city limits. B:	Oh, okay. It was more of a race issue.





	H:	It was more of a race issue, yes. We had outdoor toilets for a long time. We had pump water. And we had to wash with the three tubs, boil a pot, rub the clothes, bleach them all; this kind of thing. We did manual labor. We all had chores to do. You had to keep your yard clean. You had to keep your room clean.

	B:	How many brothers and sisters did you have?



	H:	Two sisters and two brothers. It was five kids. My mom was a special needs person, so we were raised by my grandmother. My brother was principal at Perry Primary until this year. George Clayton, that’s my brother.

	B:	Oh really? So, the educational values that went on at Jerkins were—



H:  And I’ve got a sister that was a beautician. Left and went to New York, stayed twenty-five years, and she worked for Chase Manhattan. So, we didn’t do too bad.

	B:	Was she a Jerkins graduate as well? H:	She’s a Jerkins graduate as well.

	B:	Because they say that Jerkins graduates made waves.



	H:	Yes, very, very good people. And I had a brother that was, he did tile and carpet for a living. So, we didn’t do too bad.

	B:	Yeah. And I’ve heard Jerkins was a school, but it was also a community. This has always been a community, in other words.

	H:	Yes, it is.



	B:	Do you remember any stories about community here, and feeling part of something bigger?





	H:	We were not taught prejudice as some of the kids might have been taught at that time. I remember walking to town, downtown, and we had to go and ask for the mail. You go to the teller’s office in the post office, and you stand there and wait for your mail, and then you had to walk back home at the time, and get ready to go to school and not be late. And I remember going one morning, and I stood there for so long. And he waited on every White person that came behind me. As a little girl, I couldn’t understand that; because I was there! So, I thought by going early, I would be waited on first. When I got home, I said, “Well, Mom, why didn’t he wait on me? I was there first.” And she just said, “Oh, well, these things happen sometime.” She never said anything negative about it. She just taught us to accept it in a way. As I grew older, then I knew why. But we were not taught prejudice. We were just taught that people are human. They are different colors, different likes, different cultures; but nobody hate anybody. We were taught to love everybody. I often remembered that, even after I got grown. Why did people do people like that?

	B:	I’m sure that wasn’t the only example.



	H:	No, there were lot of others. But that one just stood out in my mind for a long time.

	B:	And experiences like that made Jerkins more of a community, because all that stuff was checked at the gate. Except for, I mean, I can imagine, even though this place was a safe place, there was still little remnants of that prejudice in your books, in your football uniforms, and that kind of thing.





	H:	Right. Even in your education. I had daughters that graduated from Taylor County High. They went to school at Jerkins, but they graduated from Taylor County High. I had friends, ladies that I worked with. And I wondered why their children could get jobs in the bank and places, and mine couldn’t, and they had college degrees, but their kids didn’t have college degrees. So, there was another way to show me that it was really based on prejudice.

	B:	And your kids would’ve graduated from high school in what year?



	H:	Can’t remember. [Laughter] The oldest one graduated in 1970, the last year that this school, Jerkins, were open.

	B:	Oh wow. So your kids were the second generation of Jerkins graduates! Oh, my gosh! So, you and this school are like—. [Laughter]

	H:	Well, I’ve been in Perry all my life. I grew up here, born and raised here. I never left to live, other than to visit. But I’ve never been out of Perry over two weeks in my whole life. I just love it! I love the people here. I love the atmosphere of knowing the people. Knowing where you’re going and how to get there. That’s my comfort zone.

	B:	You said you did have good contact with your grandparents. Do you remember any stories that they told you about their lives, and how they ended up coming—I mean, did they come to Perry, or had they always been here?

	H:	They came from up ‘round Moseley Hall and Sermon, my grandmother did. And all of her sisters went north but her.

	B:	Went North as in—?





H:  Like, they went to New Jersey and different places, New York, to live for better living conditions. But she chose to stay in Perry, I don’t know why. She stayed here with us. They always tried to recruit us to go North, but she never would.

B:   She liked the South.



H:   She just liked to be here in Perry.



	B:	Did your grandfather also come from this area? H:	Yes, but he died early on in my lifehood.

	B:	Okay. So you don’t have many memories of him.



	H:	I don’t have many memories of the grandparents; nobody but my grandmother.



My grandfather was out of the household at that time.



	B:	Do you remember any stories that your grandmother told you about her childhood? What she used to do as a child, or as she grew up? Or what jobs she had, or anything like that?

	H:	She did her day work. She was also a seamstress. She did tell us that she used to sew for the White lady that she worked for. But her prime interest was not in the kind of life, dwelling on what she went through. Her prime thing was to make sure we got a good education and were taught good values. She didn’t talk much about the past.

	B:	What you were getting at home with your grandmother continued as you got into grammar school.

	H:	Yes, yes.



	B:	I heard that the professors, the teachers, that were here were almost like parents.





	H:	They were.



	B:	How so?



	H:	Because if you didn’t do well in school, your mother would back up whatever the teacher said. If the teacher said you didn’t do good, you didn’t do good. If the teacher said you misbehaved in school, then you misbehaved in school. It wasn’t any question about, “I didn’t do that.” It didn’t make any different. If a grown-up said you did it, you did it. So, your punishment was based on that. And even though we didn’t have telephones, if you did something, your mother, your grandmother, would know by the time you got home that it wasn’t a good day.

	B:	You would think “This is magical, how did she find out?”



	H:	That’s right! “How do you find out that quick?” But they did. I’ve found that even with cell phones nowadays, people are not saying much. They just talking.

People talked when they talked to each other. You had better relationships than you do now with the cell phone in your pocket. And the kids walk around with them, talking all day long. They’re not saying anything of value.

	B:	Funny how that works. That’s just a sentiment that we are in different times.



	H:	Right. I have nothing against a cell phone; they come in handy in a lot of ways.



But I think we overuse them.



	B:	That face-to-face interaction is what we’ve lost.



	H:	Right. That personal talking to each other, getting to know each other, relating to the feelings of what you might be telling me might be helpful to me, or maybe it might be helpful to you that I’m listening. We don’t have that anymore.





	B:	You definitely mentioned that the bad news got home first; did the good news also come?

	H:	Good news got there, too. Because it would show up on your cards. I was an A student.

	B:	Yeah, I mean, if you’re a valedictorian—



	H:	Yeah, I was an A student. So. And I’m the person, I didn’t want a beating about the same thing. If I was punished for doing something one time, I didn’t want that punishment anymore. So, I always tried to do what was right.

	B:	Were your brothers and sisters kind of the same way? H:	Yes, we were all taught that.

	B:	So you could tell that was your grandmother’s influence.



	H:	Right. We had our moments, we weren’t perfect. But there was not a lot of beating. Our grandmother did a lot of talking to us about things. And when she did punish us with a whipping, she told us why. We wanted to please her, so we didn’t try to keep doing the same thing.

	B:	Right. Right. And so, education was always very important to you?



H:  Very important. First thing was Christianity, being a Christian, and knowing there was a God you had to answer to. And the second thing was education, and then family. These were all parts of our values, and still is.

B:  Did you find that while you were at Jerkins, that Christianity and family were also part of the lessons?

H:  That’s right. We had chapel, where we learned scriptures. And in chorus, we sung religious-type songs as well as anthems. That’s why it was always





community-based, because each one was teaching on the same things. So it wasn’t any conflict between church, school, and family. Because you were going to hear the same thing at home that you heard at school, and the same thing at school that you heard at church.

	B:	Right. And that’s not the way it is today.



	H:	No it’s not. It’s the conflict between all of them. If the family is doing this, that’s not what we do at school. If you’re in school, that’s not the way we do at home. And it’s just—it’s chaos.

	B:	And oftentimes the mother will come to the school and say, “This is wrong,” and take them out of the class that way. So, when did that change?

	H:	I don’t know. In my mind, I think when we had the hippie generation, and the communial-type living. I think that’s when the culture started changing, and children had more privileges and more choices. And I think that was the breakdown of the structure. We kind of sowed the wind and reaped a whirlwind, the baby boomers.

	B:	Well, tell me more about cheerleading and basketball.



	H:	It was fun! We got a chance to travel to other places that otherwise we would not have gone. We had socials after the basketball game. I got a chance to meet Ray Charles in person, when he was a young guy just beginning to play.

	B:	Wow. Is he from Florida?



	H:	He’s from Greensville. He went to St. Augustine, the school for the D&B.



	B:	Do you remember the meeting with him? Did you know that he was a celebrity?





	H:	He wasn’t a celebrity at that time, he was teenager; young guy. He was blind, but he could play and sing.

	B:	So it became like a talent for a social. H:	Yes. He was the guest of our social.

	B:	Ah. And do you remember your perceptions about him? Was he fun?



	H:	He was fun. I remember asking one of my friends why did he rock, when he plays. Not having been around anybody blind to know the characteristics. But we enjoyed him, because he could play and sing. And we loved to dance as teenagers, so that was fun to us.

	B:	What kind of music, did he play other people’s songs, or—?



	H:	He played any kind of music you sang. Anything you sang, he could play it. He was just that talented.

	B:	[inaudible 18:11]?



	H:	No! We just told him to play. We played, we sang. And we also had a little trio singing group at our school. So whatever he played, we just sang. We just enjoyed it.

B:  That sounds like a really cool experience, that’s awesome! [Laughter] And so how was it—I know back before women’s rights and things like this, maybe a women’s basketball team wasn’t so popular.

H:   It was not. It was just an activity you had in school. No, it wasn’t that popular.



Because a lot of girls didn’t want to play because you had to wear shorts. Shorts were not the popular thing. We were only allowed to wear capris, what we called





pedal pushers in those days. So, shorts were not the popular dress code for the good girls, so to speak.

	B:	Oh, okay. So it was one of those things like pushing the limits of your Christian values.

	H:	Right. Right. But it was a good clean sport, and you had chaperones. And it gave you a chance to go places that otherwise you might not have gone. And it was a school activity, so you were allowed to play if you wanted to.

	B:	Did you guys ride buses?



	H:	Yes we had an old raggedy bus, another hand me down. We went places. We sometimes had trouble sometimes with the bus, but we always managed to get back home safe.

	B:	Meaning—trouble like motor trouble?



	H:	Flat tire, maybe. Or getting lost from the directions. You know. B:	Flat tires on a bus are not okay. [Laughter]

	H:	Right. And it was a used bus. It wasn’t new. But that was fun to kids. It was fun.



	B:	The adventures. You look back and think, there’s a reason why we had an old raggedy bus, but at the same time it was part of your childhood memories.

	H:	It was fun. Well, you think about it; if you never had a new one, how would you know it felt.

	B:	Right. Right. To get somewhere without worrying about it, but you’re going to get there. Yep. That’s true. And, so you were a cheerleader as well. What were the cheerleading uniforms like?

	H:	Oh, my goodness!





	B:	I’m sure you got photos of all this stuff too! [Laughter]



	H:	I have. Go Bisons! We were proud of the Bisons. Like I said, we did win some games. I can’t remember. Little cheers that we made up ourselves, but we didn’t do little calisthenics and stuff that the cheerleaders do now. We just clapped and sang, and just enjoyed. Kind of got the crowd to help sing and cheer with us.

That was the basic of it. But it was fun.



	B:	Did you always have a big crowd? H:	Yes, we always had a good crowd.

	B:	So, football games were kind of social events for the community?



	H:	Right, even though we were out in the weather. We didn’t play in a gym, we played outside.

	B:	Yeah. Yeah. That’s cool. So, about integration: your kids would’ve been graduating right at the time—no, your kids would’ve been in school during integration?

	H:	They were, and we lived on the east side of town, so my kids got a chance to be integrated because of where we lived.

	B:	Got a chance to, or were forced to? That’s—



	H:	They were forced to. We weren’t asked if we had an option. Because the talk was that they were going to close Jerkins anyway. So, getting your children in school and keeping up an education was important at that time than to worry about fighting the issues. So, they went to the school because we lived on that side of town.





	B:	So, can you tell me more about—because I talked to someone else who said the government came in and said, “You will integrate,” to both sides.

	H:	They had to be forced, because the powers that be weren’t going to do it on their own.

	B:	And so, was the Black community excited about this, or were they kind of like, “No, we want to stay at Jerkins?”

	H:	No, we weren’t. No, we weren’t. We loved Jerkins. We wanted to keep Jerkins.



And Jerkins provided quality education. We had, and still have, a good track record for putting out educated kids. So, we did not want to close Jerkins, no. I don’t think we were asked. We were forced.

	B:	So it’s just another example of the dominant group coming in and saying, “This is what you have to do.”

	H:	Right, because we didn’t have Black city councils, and congressmens, and senators and stuff. That was a no-no in Perry. We even had an issue with voting.

	B:	Really?



	H:	That’s right. I can’t remember the year that we starting voting, but we were way behind a lot of other counties when it came to politics.

	B:	Was it Black people just wouldn’t even go out because they knew they weren’t allowed?

	H:	Because you didn’t want crosses burned in front of your yard. Or you didn’t want to be ostracized. So, for a long time, they didn’t. We didn’t.

	B:	So there was a constant fear of burning— H:	Right.





	B:	—from these people you didn’t know, just people running around in the dark. So would you kind of look back on your childhood and think it was a scary childhood, or overwhelmingly good with a few—

	H:	I think it was a good childhood. I’ve never regretted being born in the era that I was born in, because we had the hope that things were going to always get better. When you got hope, and when you got faith in God and know that he’s going change things, you have something to look forward to. It’s not going be this way all the time. It’s not their fault altogether that this is happening. Maybe this is the way the world is. You rationalize that this is the way it is for now, but it’s not gonna always be this way. I would rather have been born back then than to be now. The kids now have too many issues. Too many choices, too many temptations. The parents looked out for the kids; they were responsible for their kids. They didn’t just have children and expect somebody else to raise them. You could go from here to the other side of town at night and walk. No one was going to bother you. You didn’t have that fear that somebody was going to kidnap you, and molest you, and these kinds of things. We would get together, four or five of us coming from the basketball game, and walk home. The boys sometime would walk us home and then go back to their home. We didn’t have that fear. We could get out in the yard and play all day. Your parents wouldn’t have to stand there and watch you. Because they knew it wasn’t anybody going bother you.

And if they weren’t watching you, the neighbors were watching for you. So, we didn’t have that fear. I miss that, because I think children now miss being outside. Having the freedom to make their own toys, or play games that they create.





Rather having someone shoving a toy at you and say, “Hey, this is it. You play with this, because this is name brand. Play with that.” Kids, they’re not creative anymore.

B:   They don’t have to be.



H:   They don’t have to be. We lost that.



	B:	Did your grandmother live to see integration and all these things, or—? H:	She died in 1972; she did see some of it, yes. Yes.

	B:	Her generation, were they also looking forward to change. Because there was a lot of generations that might’ve looked forward to change, but they didn’t live to see it.

	H:	Well, she lived to see some of the change because we had a better life than she did. Even though we were still poor, it was still better than what she say she had. And then, my kids had a better life than I did. And we were still poor, and I’m still poor. [Laughter] Moneywise. Being taught the most important things in life: good health, good friends, good family. You don’t worry about money. You know you need money, because you have to have it to survive. But money is not the reason you’re here. You can live and be clean and decent without having a whole lot of money. And with television telling you how the rich folks live, who in the heck want to be rich? With somebody stalking you, and kidnapping your kids, always stealing your money—even on the computer, they can take your money off the computer and put it in their account. Who wants that?

	B:	Yeah. And so, do you remember the first time you had a TV?





	H:	Oh, my goodness! All of my friends had TVs, and indoor plumbing, and cars, and all this stuff way before I did. But when we got it, it was a joy. But it was not children watched TV all day long. Not that kind of thing. They had time to watch TV; had time to do the homework.

	B:	Was it a family thing? Like, you would watch it with your family?



	H:	Oh, yes. And you could watch it with your family. You can’t now! You don’t know what you going to see, even on the cartoons! [Laughter]

	B:	That’s a good point. So, TV used to be a family activity?



	H:	Yes, TV and the boom boxes, record players with the music. Yes. Good entertainment.

	B:	Listening to music is a very individual thing. Unless you’re in a club, or going out dancing, or something like that.

	H:	Well, you had a better choice of music in a way then. Now you have to censor what you listen to, because you don’t know what you might hear. Then, the kids didn’t only play inside; they had a chance to go outside and play in the yard. So, the parents had some relief time, so to speak. But now, parents with kids got to be—if they’re home, they got to be in the house with them all day, for safety. So, it was different.

	B:	And do you remember when that changed? Can you think when you realized, “Oh, wow, things are not the same anymore?” Or was it just a gradual—?

	H:	It was a change that took place that, if you wasn’t just going day-by-day to keep up with it, you wouldn’t know it. It just happened. It’s something you just gradually went into. My kids played in the yard because I stayed in houses where I had a





nice yard. And sometimes they were fenced in, so I could allow them to go outside and just play.

	B:	Well, integration was one of those changes that was bold, and it was immediate.



Do you remember thinking, “My kids are going to have to compete with these other people?” Or, “They’re going to have to compete with us?” Or how was that, the thought of knowing that your children were going to be subjected to a different culture, a different place, a different everything?

	H:	Well, I don’t think I saw it in that sense, because my kids were always good in school. They got their lessons, they made grades. If they made a C, it wasn’t because they didn’t try to do better. So, that wasn’t an issue of competing. That’s never been an issue with me.

	B:	And then, knowing that it was going to be all-White teachers, right? And wondering how they would see the Black students, whether they would even give them a chance to participate equally.

	H:	Well, we had some Black teachers, too.



	B:	Oh, so some of the Jerkins teachers moved over to the White school.



	H:	Yes, yes. We had some Black teachers. Because one of the principals at the primary school was Black. So, we had some connection there. And believe it or not, we knew a lot of the White teachers. So, we had friends, I had friends—I’ve always had friends that were White. So, you didn’t have that fear of competition; it was, you were looking for a good education. And if something came up, you went and discussed it. We didn’t go to the school pointing fingers and stuff; we wanted to find out what was going on, and what could we do, to make it better.





	B:	So even though it was a forced integration, and the people at Jerkins were not really that happy to move, you guys handled it very professionally, actually.

	H:	Right, because we wanted our kids to have a good education. And we were willing to do what it took to get that education for our kids, even though we were in a strange place. We still wanted our kids to be taught. And we were going to make sure—because when they brought books home, we were going to find out what they were supposed to be doing. Kids studied then. I mean, you had to do your homework before you got a chance to play. They didn’t have a lot of distractions like they do now. And the household rules is different now. We tell a kid to go to your room and study. What do you think he’s doing up there in his room?

	B:	Probably playing video games.



	H:	That’s right! You know? You in timeout, go to your room. What you think he’s doing? We didn’t have that. You were in timeout, you were where I could see you to make sure you were doing what you were supposed to do.

B:  What was the feeling about Jerkins being the one that got closed, rather than integrating this school? Was there word on the street about that, or was it just like, “Enh, well, it’s just going to happen?”

H:  I don’t know. I don’t remember talking much about that. I think we understood why it was closed in the first place.

B:  You just knew that was going to happen. H:   We just knew it was going to happen.





	B:	It’s another one of those injustices that—. So, what happened to all the trophies, and all the Bison memorabilia and everything, what happened to all that?

	H:	It probably got scattered about. I doubt if we can find any it. We had yearbooks at home that you bought every year. In my case, my trailer burned, so I lost a lot of stuff. But I imagine the people that had it just kept it. Because we are using some of that material now to make yearbooks. So, they kept it. We still have that school pride. That’s one thing that people, nobody can take from you.

	B:	Right, the immaterial—



	H:	That’s right. They cannot take it from you. And you can see by this gathering today, it’s still here. All we had to do was say, “This is what’s going to be done.” And the community’s here to prove that pride for Jerkins High, and the Perry- Taylor community, is still there.

	B:	Right. It’s been wonderful being here, and seeing—I’ve seen so many people walk in the door and say, “Oh, my God!” It’s just so exciting to be here!

	H:	That’s right. I’ve seen people that I haven’t seen in forty years. B:	Yeah. And what a great feeling, to—

	H:	I wouldn’t rather be nowhere else in the world than right here. I stayed here all day, yesterday. Because I wanted to be here to meet and greet, and to see the people come back home. And I know they came because they love Jerkins High. And they remember the values that this school has put in this community. It’s rooted here in this community. Now, we have some bad seeds, but that’s okay.

That’s everywhere. Hey, bad seeds can come out of the White House. But





they’re still our kids. We’ve all seen it happen. But we hang on to the good. And cherish the good, and hope to make the bad better.

	B:	Yeah. Which seems to be a common theme with everyone that grew up in your era: there’s always room for improvement.

	H:	That’s right.



	B:	So, let’s take a hold of what we’ve got good, and try to make the bad better. H:	And make it better. Don’t let go! Got to have something to hold onto.

	B:	Is there anything I didn’t ask about that you wanted to talk about, or add, or clarify?

	H:	No, I think you asked a lot of questions. And I think I might have talked too much. [Laughter] I’m more of a—I like to write things, than talk about it.

	B:	You’re writing a book right now?



	H:	No, I wish I could. I don’t know whether I can. But I’d always hoped that one day I might. But I’ve just always been a writer, even from grade school. And a reader. I love to read, because reading take me places I can’t go. So, I’ve always loved that.

	B:	You should write your story. My generation, we grew up, and the racial issues just aren’t there anymore.

	H:	Right. So you don’t know how it feel. Just like you over here now: you in the minority. And it’s different for you, because you’ve always been in the majority. It’s not different for me, because I’ve always been in the minority. But I can accept it either way, because I’m not prejudiced. I wasn’t taught prejudice. I see people. I love people. And I look for the good in people, even the ones that call





you all kinds of names. I still say, “There’s some good there, somewhere. Wonder why they won’t let it show. They’d be much happier if they did.”

	B:	Right. I think it’s those kinds of realizations that people my age want to hear about that stuff. We want to know where we come from, and what kind of struggles everybody’s been through that we work with and we operate with. It just seems that that would put it into perspective. So at the very minimum, we can appreciate what we have today, and how it’s totally acceptable for me to have Black friends, Hispanic friends, or Asian friends. The struggles that you guys went through broke down a lot of the barriers so that people my age can enjoy this, and just go through life with so few problems.

	H:	Well, we didn’t think so much about what has been. You’ve got to remember the past so you won’t repeat it. But you also got to let go of the past so you can enjoy the present. If you want changes, you’ve got to do things different. If you keep doing the same things, you going get the same results. So, you’ve got to make changes, and a lot of people won’t accept changes. I’m very flexible. And that makes a difference in the way I see life. I welcome changes: do things different. Because I want different results; I want things to get better.

	B:	Yeah, it could get better! That’s the—



	H:	That’s right! So, I know I’ve got to change to do that.



	B:	Yeah. Well, it’s been a pleasure talking with you. I hope to read your memoir one day.

	H:	Thank you! Well, maybe you come and help me write it. Because I’m not, I haven’t had the formal training for writing, so—.











[End of Interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, October 10, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 18, 2019