AAHP 158; Harris; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 158 Bernice Presley African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Unknown on January 16, 2011 6 minutes | 4 pages



Abstract: Martha Nell Harris was born and raised in White Springs, Florida, and moved to Lake City at the age of eighteen. She attended Carver High School, and describes the effects of Jim Crow segregation on her life, including her education. The interview is then cut short due to some sort of interruption.





[Keywords: African American History; Columbia County, Florida; Hamilton County, Florida; Carver High School]



























































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 158

Interviewee: Martha Harris Interviewer: Diamia Foster Date: January 16, 2011



	F:	Good morning Mrs. Harris. Well, I apologize—good afternoon. May you please state your full name please?

H:   Martha Nell Harris.



	F:	Okay and where are you from?



	H:	Originally born and raised in White Springs, Florida, until I was eighteen. F:	Okay, where did you live prior to that?

	H:	White Springs. I’ve been in Lake City since then. F:	Okay, and the school that you attended?

	H:	Was Carver High School of White Springs; a small school. F:	Okay, how was your experience there like?

	H:	Oh, it was a wonderful experience there at Carver High. My uncle was my principal.

	F:	Okay!



	H:	I went to preschool, if you call it preschool at that time. I went from first grade on through graduation, and it was four graduated in my class in 1957.

	F:	Okay. I know that was before the Civil Rights Movement. H:	Yes.

	F:	Could you please speak about some of the events or some of the significant things you may have remembered from growing up as a child with Blacks not being allowed to do certain things?

	H:	Yes. Well at the school I went, we got old books. F:	Wow.





	H:	You’ve heard that plenty times. The books came from the White school in White Springs. When they got new ones we got their old books. And we played basketball at the time. We didn’t have a gym; we played outside on the clay court. In certain places you couldn’t go in White Springs after a certain time. After walking on the side walk or anything like that during the time, well you just knew your place.

	F:	Yeah.



	H:	You know how Whites were during that—we didn’t come in contact with any Whites at school. It was just all Black. We didn’t have a lunch room because the school burned before I started the high school.

	F:	Yes ma’am.



	H:	And for a while we didn’t have a lunchroom. We had lunch. They had a place to fix lunch in. But we had some wonderful teachers that made sure you studied. They would get on you. Not like it is now.

	F:	Yeah, no.



	H:	If you didn’t they would paddle you, but I never got a paddling in school. F:	Thank God.

	H:	I didn’t. I never did because I tried to obey the rules of the school, and I had two aunts that taught at the school. That wasn’t the reason I didn’t get paddled because they weren’t really my teachers, but I just enjoyed school. I loved to go to school, so out of those four students I was salutatorian. I wanted to be the other one, but my friend, she was the valedictorian.

	F:	Okay.





	H:	And I was the salutatorian.



	F:	I was too, so—. [Laughter] That’s fine with me. Did you all feel a lot safer being that all you all were Black and that all you all understood that, “We know we may not be accepted but, knowing that we all here, are the same race, and we understand our boundaries. And we feel a lot safer being around one another?”

	H:	Yes we did. Even though it was segregated, you knew what to expect, and you knew—. I graduated in 1957 and I’ve bene here fifty-two years in Lake City. I didn’t go to college, because I married right after I finished high school.

	F:	Yes.



	H:	But during the time I was in high school I enjoyed it, but it was really segregated at that time. But we didn’t know the difference really between segregation and desegregation because that was the way of life at that time. And we had some Whites that were really nice. Some weren’t nice at the time, but most of them in the community, we knew which ones were and we got along because we were told by our parents—and now—times were hard back then because my father died when I was nine years old, but I had good grandparents and aunts and uncles so I was able to go to school. I didn’t have to stop to work or anything. I was able to stay in school all the way through high school, but during the time the schools, it was just—it was hard times, but we knew where we were. We knew that we didn’t go to school at the White school. We knew they had better things but we were satisfied—

	F:	I’m sorry we’re gonna have to— [Editor’s note: this concludes the interview]





	Transcribed by:	Sandra Romero, June 22, 2016 Audit edited by:	Holland Hall, June 28, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 20, 2019