AAHP 195; Williams; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 195 Janie Williams

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Ryan Morini on October 10, 2011 2 hours | 50 pages



Abstract: Janie Williams was born and raised in the Porters Quarters neighborhood in Gainesville, Florida. Her mother was a domestic worker and her father was a barber, and she describes her family and community life from when she was growing up, including her household chores, the role of her church in her life, local Black businesses, and offers extended reflection on her experiences attending Lincoln High School. In the process, Ms. Williams shares her memories of what it was like to live under Jim Crow segregation, and she also describes policing in Gainesville at that time, and the role of the first Black police officers in the community. Mrs. Williams attended Clark University during the Civil Rights Movement, and relates her experiences seeing nationally-known leaders speaking in the Atlanta area. After returning, she taught at Lincoln High School, and after integration, she was transferred to Glen Springs Elementary.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Lincoln High School; Segregation; Civil Rights Movement]









































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 195

Interviewee: Janie Williams Interviewer: Ryan Morini Date: October 11, 2011



	M:	This is Ryan Morini, I am sitting in the home of Mrs. Janie Williams at 811 Southwest fifth street in the Porter’s neighborhood. It is October 11, 2011. First could you state your full name and your date of birth?

		W:		I’m Janie Delores Simmons Williams. My birth date is September 2, 1938. M:	September 2, 1938. And where were you born?

	W:	I was born right here in Porter’s; in fact, the house that I was born in was torn down about two years ago if you look out my back kitchen window you would see the house that I was born in. So I pretty near lived in this area all of my life.

	M:	Wow. Were you born, was there a midwife or doctor there? W:	It was a midwife.

	M:	Who was, do you know who the midwife was?



	W:	Her name was Ms. Simmons, but I don’t remember the first name. I know it was a Simmons. And I’m not sure if she was related or no.

	M:	Okay, okay.



	W:	But it was a midwife.



	M:	I see, and so this is obviously the area you grew up in. What were your parent’s names?

	W:	My parent’s names was Ginny and Robert Simmons. M:	Okay, were they from the area too?

	W:	No. My mother was from the Monteocha area. LaCrosse somewhere, LaCrosse, and oh I’ve forgotten it. It’s another little settlement in there that she was raised in and I’m not certain about that. Actually my dad folks are from Carolina.





	M:	Okay, Okay. What was your mother’s maiden name? W:	Sallett, S-A-L-L-E-T-T.

	M:	Okay. And so how did they meet? W:	Now, that I’m not sure.

	M:	Okay, what were their occupations?



	W:	My mom was a maid. And my dad was a barber. M:	Okay, did they live here for all of their married life? W:	Yes.

	M:	Okay, and so where was your father’s barber shop? W:	Right over here in front of the house.

	M:	Oh I see, I see. And so his clients were mostly neighbors I guess?



	W:	Right. Neighbors here and from over what they call the Sugar Hill area and the Springhill area. But you know because there wasn’t that many barbers in the area at that time.

	M:	I see, I see. Did he get any training anywhere or he just kind of took it off?



	W:	No, I have not heard him say when I came to know myself and what he did he was doing there. So I’m not quite sure.

	M:	Fair enough. Where did your mother do the housekeeping?



	W:	She did the housekeeping for some of the ladies in, I wouldn’t say necessarily in our neighborhood but basically for University of Florida wives and whatever. I don’t remember her taking in washing. Some of the ladies I know took in washing and ironing for people, but I don’t recall Mama as having done that at all.

	M:	Did you ever spend much time with your father at work?





	W:	Oh, yes. With him barbering? Yes and especially when I came from school. M:	I see, did he have you helping out there?

	W:	No. I was just milling around. And getting in the way. [Laughter] M:	I see. The occupation for a kid I guess.

	W:	Uh-huh.



	M:	Where did you go to school?



	W:	I went to school at Lincoln High School. In fact, all of my years was at Lincoln. I started off, I don’t think we had Kindergarten at that time, or if so—yes we did. We did have Kindergarten. I remember very vividly because we were in a room with Kindergarten and first grade. Thelma Jordan was my teacher there. Ms.

Jordan was my teacher there. Mrs. Jordan eventually was the Principal of the Elementary school at Lincoln High. And she hired me, Mrs. Jordan hired me when I came back to Gainesville. I did spend some years away from Gainesville after I finished school. I finished school from Clark University in Atlanta.

	M:	Okay. So did you have any sisters or brothers?



	W:	I had one brother and he was twenty years older than me. M:	Wow.

	W:	So, he was—so like it was a long span in there. M:	Did he also live in the area?

	W:	Yes but not continuously.



	M:	Okay, so you saw him occasionally. But he wasn’t part of the household necessarily.

	W:	Uh-huh, right.





	M:	Was there anyone else who was part of the household—? W:	No.

	M:	Grandparents or it was just—



	W:	No, no. In fact I never knew any of my Grandparents, either of them. I would say that I was a baby that was not expected. At twenty years—my brother was exactly twenty years old when I was born. So, you know, they weren’t expecting a kid.

	M:	I see, how old were your parents at the time?



	W:	My mom would have been close to, between thirty and forty at that time. M:	So they were a little older, than—

	W:	Oh yeah. Yeah, uh-huh.



	M:	Okay, fair enough. Did you have, you know who were your friends in the neighborhood?

	W:	Oh I had, well just about everybody. I mean all the kids that was in the neighborhood, and there were plenty of kids in the neighborhood at that time. The least were a part of my family. When I say my family, we were just that close near the Gaskins, there was Eddy and Edith there, there Teretha there, there was just—over here we had the Gardens, and they had about nine children. We had the Wilcombs and they had, they were older than me, but they were cousins so I still knew them and there was what—five or six in that family. I think there was nine of maybe eleven in the Leath family. So we just had ours probably the only one with just one kid. Though I wasn’t a one kid family but my brother was so much older it seems as if I were. And also, the Lyles, they were older but





they—and the Williams’ they had what? About seven children. So there were lots of children in the neighborhood and we all played together. In fact, over at the Church there, Shady Grove Primitive Baptist Church, that was our meeting place about five o’clock in the afternoon. All the kids would kinda gather up there and we would play in the streets at that time. There were two big oak trees that sat right in the front of that church and we would run and play and the cars would go around on either side so the trees, and we—naturally being kids would play run in between the trees and the cars passing. Oh, we just had a lot of fun when we were growing up because everybody respected each other and everybody was in a sense your parents. If they told you something, you did that. And if they could correct you at anything that you were doing that was unacceptable, they did that. And it was no, you know, there was no animosity of a parent getting upset; in fact they wanted their child to be disciplined if they were doing something that was unacceptable.

	M	Fair enough, and so most of the playing you guys did was at the church?



	W:	Well, yeah, at the church almost two pillars—that, I don’t why, but that was just our meeting place. We used to ride our bicycles, we used to roll spinning wheels, which I’m sure you don’t even know anything about. The rims that was from the, from your bicycles, we used to take those with a hanger, with a clothes hanger, and roll those with the hanger and they would make a [high pitch ringing noise], a loud sound, and those were some of our toys. We used to get the old the car tires, we used to get in the middle of them and somebody would push us and roll us around in those. So we, I mean, we just had fun. We used to play jump rope





and hop scotch, and just games that children played at that time. It’s another day and time now and the children don’t even know how to run and play. We used to race, race with our bicycles, race with those hoops that I was telling you about, just everything. It was a fun time. We didn’t have a care in the world.

	M:	Fair enough. Well, did you have to do any chores at home?



	W:	Oh, you better believe it. We had chores. Uh at that time most of us did not have electricity, we had the lamps, my job was to make sure that the lamps was filled with oil and that the chimneys were cleaned. That was basically my job to have that. I had to wash dishes and I had to make up my bed.

	M:	I see, I see, and that was— W:	And keep the yard clean.

	M:	Clean of leaves and sticks and that kind of thing? W:	Yes, uh-huh

	M:	Did they have you cut the grass or just—? W:	We didn’t have grass.

	M:	Just dirt?



	W:	Just dirt. I mean we had some grass but basically it was not. And the porches we had to keep those clean, we had porches at that time and we would take, sometime they would take sand and put on the porch and scrub that and it would come out just like it was bleached. The wood was a whitish, a whitish clean. So that’s something that you probably don’t know anything about or haven’t heard before.

	M:	Yeah, no I haven’t—





	W:	Well that’s that way it was.



	M:	Fair enough, so I guess you cooked with wood stoves, or—?



	W:	No. We had an oil stove and now we did heat by, with a wooden heater, and that was one of those wrought iron heaters and sometimes, one time we had—oh gosh I’ve forgotten those—but they were very thin aluminum type heater, now those were, oh they would get hot in a minute. But those old iron heaters they did not. They were real thick, thick iron and we would put wood inside you know to heat up the houses.

	M:	Did you have to do much of the wood collection, too?



	W:	I had to bring it in. But not really collect it. I guess dad must have done that because all I had to do was go outside on the porch and bring the wood inside. I had to make certain that the wood was inside.

	M:	I see, what kinds of things did you eat back then?



	W:	Basically I don’t see much different then what we ate. I know we ate a lot of vegetables because most time we always had a garden. And you would go outside and get whatever you wanted in the garden and it was like, even if mom didn’t have something growing in her garden in somebody else did, we shared.

	M:	I see, so people would borrow. Would you keep any chickens? Or any— W:	Yes, we had at one time, we did have chickens.

	M:	Okay, any other—I mean did you have any livestock? W:	No, just chickens.

	M:	So where did you get things like meat or things like flour or where would you go for that?





	W:	We always had a grocery store. It was Mr. Al’s. Mr. Al’s grocery store. Mainly that’s what we had. We also had the Sunlight store. There were about three stores in the neighborhood that we would get our food from. But on Saturdays they went downtown and the basically then it was the Robinson food store. And we had a Robinson food store here in the neighborhood. That was the son of the parents that had the store downtown. Have you heard of that Robinson store before?

	M:	I’ve heard of it.



	W:	Okay. And that’s where the hub is. That, what is it? The market hub, that was where the store was. And across the street now where, I forgot they, its been under so many names, but that was the main store where they sold seeds and you bought your livestock food there. It’s coming back this way on the corner of second avenue and what? First? Or second. It’s can you picture where I’m—

	M:	Yeah I can. But not well enough to know the difference between the two. W:	I think it was second. 2nd Avenue and 2nd Street.

	M:	Okay. were any of these food stores Black-owned businesses?



	W:	We had lots of Black-owned businesses on this side of—what would that be?



First. That would be First Street, on this side of First Street. There were several. There was a restaurant, there was a fish market. There was, but there were quite a few Black-owned businesses downtown.

	M:	I see, and so that was Saturday was the day to go down there? W:	Yes, that was downtown.

	M:	Did you often go as a child? Or was that an adult thing?





	W:	Yeah, yes. And I hated it. [Laughter] M:	Why was that?

	W:	Well, all the people from what we called at that time “the country,” which is not the country anymore, like Lacrosse, and Jonesville, and the Monteocha area; all those people, everybody, was in town. Everybody came to town. They were either coming to buy their livestock food or come into to supplement in getting things that they didn’t have at home that they were growing. And they came into sell. There were a lot of farmers and things that came in to sell their products on Saturdays. Some of them actually sold to the stores and some of them actually was selling on the back of their—I guess you would call it the, what would you call that—the buggy, your house and buggy. They were selling on the horse and buggy. They were bringing their greens and potatoes and onions and almost tomatoes, but basically it was greens, greens and potatoes.

	M:	I see, those were the two big things.



	W:	Uh-huh, uh-huh and when I say greens, that was collard green, mustard green, turnip greens. I mean beautiful, just, I mean if you saw it you would just wanna buy it just because of the way it looked it was really nice and sweet potatoes as well as white potatoes.

	M:	Does sound good. So what did you, you hated the crowds I guess, or?



	W:	I just didn’t like it. I had a—my mom always told me this was cousin somebody and this was cousin somebody and this was cousin somebody, and a lot of them dipped and chewed and ate they’d wanna hug you and kiss you and love you and I didn’t like it. But I had to endure. [Laughter]





	M:	Were there any other, I mean when you went downtown it was basically to go shopping and get things or did you also go to see movies? Or to any kind of—

	W:	We, we didn’t have at that time. It was segregated; our movie was on Fifth Avenue. We had one movie, we had, well actually two. But there were not two at one time. The one movie moved from where the cab stand still is now on Fifth Avenue and we moved down further going east and then it was the road’s theatre. And I’m sure you’ve heard of the Rhodes’ Theater. And on Saturday afternoon, Saturday about—I think about twelve—I could go to the movie and had to be home probably between three and four. But that was a matinee. And some kids would go from when it started until when it was over in the evening.

But I wasn’t allowed to do that I had to be back home.



	M:	I see, do you remember any favorite movies from that period?



	W:	Well, we, you know we had a lot of series. Like Captain Marvel series, all of the heroes. They had, a series—you would see a part this Saturday and then you would see almost half of what you saw the Saturday before. And then they’d leave you with a what do you call, a hang-cliff?

	M:	Oh yeah, a cliffhanger.



	W:	A cliffhanger. And then you would have to see the next part and it would just, it was a continuation for about, I guess about three months. And then there, maybe it wasn’t that long, but it seems to me at that time it was that long. And then they would start a new one but all of those were things that we saw. The Bugs Bunny, all of the Looney Tunes, yeah, those were real popular back then.

	M:	Okay, how about, did you also listen to radio stuff?





	W:	Oh yes, yes. Gosh. The Green Hornet—gosh I can’t, I can’t think of them now— but I remember the Green Hornet and the Shadow, I can’t remember. But anyway, those were some of the things that I remember. But, I feel that children nowadays, they have imaginations, but I think that our visual things of what we heard and what we visualized was much more imaginative than things are today because they don’t have much—I mean it’s right there for them to see it. And, you know, we had different sounds that you knew what the sounds were, where they were coming from, the train sounds, the bicycle sounds, the clinging of a pot. I mean you just knew what it was. And I don’t think children have that nowadays.

	M:	Understandable. Did you listen to the radio, I mean was this your parent’s radio?



	Or did you go to someone’s house to listen to the— W:	No, no we had radios. We had a radio, yes.

	M:	So you didn’t necessarily listen to them together? Kids would get together you’d kind of talk about it later?

	W:	well we did but we would talk about it when we got phones, I think our phone came in—well dad had one in his shop—but it was a payphone. You know the payphones that you used to have. They don’t have those anymore and the phones that they used to have on the corners. See kids don’t even know anything about that because everybody have their own individual phones. But Dad always had a phone in the shop and the people would come from basically all over the neighborhood to use the phone. And, well, it was there for them to use because you had to put your money in before you could use the phone.





	M:	What was your father’s barber shop like? I mean—



	W:	It was a neighborhood kind of meeting thing and especially in the afternoon for the men.

	M:	Okay, so—



	W:	It was a social gathering. Even though you were getting your haircut you would find out about all of the things that happened during the week in different parts of the community.

	M:	Is that the kind of thing you paid attention to as a kid? Or was that sort of boring to you at that age?

	W:	Sometimes I was asked to leave. [Laughter] You need to go and find something to do, go and play with the children or go find something to do.

	M:	I see, I see. Fair enough. So let’s see, do you remember any of the, just to backtrack a little, any of the names of the Black businesses that were in the neighborhood?

W:  We had, in the neighborhood, we had, we had several what you call, might call legal business. But we had what they called jukes at that time almost on every corner.

M:   Okay, do you remember the names of any of them? Or they just—



	W:	Well, I know we had “Ike’s” we had “Ms. Delano’s place,” we call them by the people that own them. We had, Ms. Delano’s had a place over on this corner, Hampton had a place next door. Oh gosh. Mr—Ms. Babe had a place. gosh what that other place was named? It’s been such a long time now that I don’t really





remember. I can visualize them, I know exactly where they are but I can’t think of the people’s names now.

	M:	Who was Ike, I’ve heard of that one?



	W:	Oh well Ike hasn’t been that long, passed away and his daughter came and tore the building down. It was right there on seventh place, right there on the corner. But Ike’s was the main one; he has always been the main one. But when we were growing up and we had one on every what you might call, every corner it seems that even though you had those places on every corner, they all had their particular clientele. And it was the strangest thing, but you knew that certain people when to this one, certain people went to that one certain people went to that one. However, if some would close earlier then they go to—you would find those people that was at this one, going to another one. But, they particularly had their own clientele at the beginning of the onset of evening.

	M:	And at that age did you have to avoid being anywhere near there or you just didn’t go there often anyway?

	W:	I never went to them. I wasn’t—well nobody told me not to but it was just an understanding—

	M:	That you just don’t—



	W:	It was an understanding. I wasn’t told, don’t you go there, or, don’t do that, it was, it was an unwritten code that you just didn’t do it.

	M:	Were there restaurants in the area, or—



	W:	Some of them soul food, yes. Now Hampton right here, he had, he sold food to [phone ringing]. Excuse me.





	M:	Okay, so, let’s see. We were just talking about the downtown. did people refer to this as the Porter’s neighborhood back then?

	W:	Yes, it has always been Porter’s. It was then Porter’s Community, Porter’s Quarters, but it’s always been Porter’s. And I think that name came—well I’ve heard two, version of why it was called Porter’s. I understand that a person named Porters was the primary owner of these shotgun houses that was down here at that time. We had lots of shotgun houses down this street and over on this side, and going down Depot Avenue. This house and that pink house over there, they were homeowners. And, I guess you would call my dad as a entrepreneur because he owned a couple of places. So, and, Ms. Delano’s which I call and I told you that she, that pink house on the corner, she owned that. So you could pretty well tell if you were in that particular age/time you could tell the homeowners as opposed to the shotgun houses.

	M:	I see, who was Ms. Delano?



	W:	Stella. Estella. Estella Knowles. M:	Okay, okay, sorry. Uh—

	W:	It was Estella, but we called her Stella. [Laughter]



	M:	It makes sense, it makes sense. okay and so the church over here, I’m turned around its—

	W:	The Church is right there.



	M:	Yeah, they just dedicated a historical marker there.



	W:	Right, because its been in the neighborhood for years. In fact, my mom told me that they, from her salary, that they were, I guess what you might say, was





dedicated twenty-five cents a month for a stone to help build that church. And that was, they were really sacrificing to do that, but they did get the church built.

	M:	So it was a whole community effort just to put it up. W:	Yes, yes, uh-huh.

	M:	Was there a previous version of the church before it went up, or—



	W:	I’m sure it was but I don’t know about that, but I’m sure it was. And if you look at that, that’s shell stone, you don’t see that often anymore. In fact I think its only two or three buildings in Gainesville that’s still standing with that shell stone. I wouldn’t guess you would call that decorative, but that’s what its build from.

	M:	I see, I see. Is that the church you went to? Or—



	W:	We all went to that church for certain occasions. We had a person by the name of Fanny. Fanny—I can’t think of her name—Shannon.

	M:	Fanny Shannon.



	W:	Fanny Shannon that she would—it didn’t make any difference whose child it was.



She would get them and usher them into church. [Laughter] She was, she was that way. Now my church at that time was behind where doctor—and he just moved from there-hats his name—the eye doctor up on 4th Avenue. Hazuri.

Hazuri. But it wasn’t Hazuri at that time. It was Pinkerson. It was Dr. Pinkerson at that time. In fact, Dr. Pinkerson bought our property. To expand, to do some expansion and for him to have a parking lot. But we were on 3rd Avenue, his place is on 4th Avenue, but he didn’t have any parking place, so he made arrangement to buy us out and that’s when we moved from over 3rd Avenue to 15th, Southeast 15th Street.





	M:	Okay was Dr. Pinkerson Black?



	W:	No, Dr. Pink—Lee Pinkerson daddy. You know Lee Pinkerson? He’s one of the Commissioners, county commissioners.

	M:	Oh, okay, okay. Sorry—



	W:	Even he, he was in there with his dad at that time.



	M:	I see, okay, okay. was that a doctor that people went to in the neighborhood? Or, who were, who was the doctor around here?

	W:	No, he was an eye doctor now.



	M:	Okay, well so who was the doctor that people went to?



	W:	The, as far as a physician? It was Dr. Banks basically. Dr. Banks, before Dr.



Banks there was a Dr. Parker.



	M:	Okay, where did Dr. Parker, do you remember where he was in town?



	W:	He was over in the Northwest section. I’ve forgotten what street it was now, but he was still over in the Northwest section and when Dr. Banks came here as a young doctor I was probably like in, maybe ninth grade? Wait, wait am I right? Yeah, probably—between seventh and ninth grade was when he first came to Gainesville. And he took over doctor—gosh what did I call his name?

	M:	Parker?



	W:	Dr. Parker’s practice. Dr. Parker was getting to be kind of old and Dr. Banks took—but there was another doctor also. But basically it was Dr. Parker. I can’t think of, but there were two Black doctors in town. I can’t, I can’t recall the name of the other one right now. But when Dr. Banks came, you know being kind of young, energetic and everything. He, he basically sold up all of the business.





	M:	I see, is that, so did you, how often did you go to see the doctor?



	W:	Basically when I was not feeling well. I didn’t know anything about, you know, what you might say a yearly exam and stuff like that. but I was not, what you might say a well child during my growing up years. Something was always wrong. I had asthma and by me having asthma I had pneumonia three times so I was always—I had appendix, appendicitis when I was eleven. And, you know, and at that time, when I had my appendix removed well you don’t know anything about AGH.

	M:	Alachua general? I know of it.



	W:	Yeah, but you don’t know at that time, at that time, this was in [19]49. Oh, that was a long time ago, I was eleven years old. I’ll never forget. January the eleventh I went into the hospital and what had happened, I had gone to the doctor twice that week, and the doctor had told me I had gastritis. My dad came home, and dad didn’t go—I believe, if I’m not mistaken, it was Dr. Harper. I believe it was. But anyways, Dad told Mom that he was calling his doctor, he went to Dr. Snow. And at that time doctors would come into your house. Dr.

Snow came that night and he examined and he said, this child needs to go to the hospital right away. That night I went into the hospital and they did emergency surgery on me right away but the appendix had ruptured, he said when he got in it had ruptured the same. And then I was in the hospital for a long time because all of that rupturing and his hand—it went back into my body cavity—and all of that had poison was over I was a sick kid then, I could tell. I was. So with stuff like that that’s the way it went.





	M:	I see. What was AGH like?



	W:	At that time, it was segregated. We had just made a part as big as from here to the front door. That was the Black section of the hospital.

	M:	So you were just in there with everyone else? I mean, was it crowded? That’s not a lot of space.

	W:	Well, that’s what you had. That was it. And I didn’t know any better. I mean, when that’s it, you don’t know any better, you thought you were fine. It’s just like a lot of us were poor and didn’t know we were poor. You know what I said, because we had the love of everybody. Everybody cared about each other so you didn’t know that you were poor. They were just like you. But you’re like a church mouse.

Barely living and you didn’t know it. I mean, you’re laughing but it’s the truth! No it was true. And we was just as happy as we could be. And I guess in a sense I might have been privileged being an only child. I wasn’t an only child but you know, certainly the difference in the age—my brother was gone and so I had pretty much got what I wanted. That was one of those things. But I didn’t realize that we were still poor.

	M:	So when did you come to that realization? When did you see it differently or get a different sense of perspective?

	W:	I’m not sure when it happened but it did, I realized that we didn’t have things that other people had, but we had a lot of love and caring for. I knew people cared, not only my family, my mom and dad, but all of the neighbors, they cared about me and that was sufficient. And whether you know it or not, that doesn’t happen today.





	M:	That’s what people tell me.



	W:	That does not happen today, to have people who care. When I was growing up, we would leave the house, we would never lock the doors, we didn’t close our windows. Mom might say, tell one of the neighbors I’m going to the store or, I’m going to the doctor” or whatever, fine. I mean, you don’t worry about people coming into your house or doing anything. That’s just how it was. Nowadays, no, I wouldn’t dare do that. Even during the day, leaving the doors unlocked.

However, I have been lucky, I’ve only have one break in, you know, since I was here, and that’s why that window there has the bars on it. Somebody—what happen was I had somebody to come in here and do some work for me, and the person was a neighborhood person, but he had somebody else with him as a helper that was not a neighborhood person, and the following Sunday when we went to church, put a kid through the window. You could see that little child’s footprint. Came and opened the door, and when we got back—and we weren’t gone that long—

	M:	Sunday’s a long day, all your church.



	W:	[Laughter] we weren’t gone that long. I felt violated, but it did happen. But that’s the only one, and so I counted lucky or blessed or whatever.

	M:	And so you didn’t have crime like that back then?



	W:	Oh unh-huh, unh-huh. The most crime that was done is what you would hear about and people fighting, getting drunk on the weekend, some of the men that you saw, and the women too, some of them, you didn’t know that until the





weekend that they were violent personality in them. Until the weekend when they would start drinking, and that’s when stuff would happen.

	M:	So who was the pastor at the church down here, do you recall?



	W:	There have been several, several pastors there. The one that has just retired, he was there for I believe it was twenty-nine or thirty years, and his name is Reverend Rawlings. It was Reverend Rawlings, Reverend Gaines, Reverend— it’s been several. I think they have the names of the pastors on that sign there.

	M:	Okay, okay. So what churches did people go to in this neighborhood?



	W:	To be honest, even though that church was there, a lot of them went to Shady Grove. This church down here on the corner, this corner here, at that time we called it a sanctified church, which is a Church of God and Christ. It’s now located on 15th Street, Reverend Magnat’s church. That’s where that church started from. That church was in the neighborhood for oh, gosh, when I came to know myself that church was there and it was a lively church. Then there was another church, Mount Moriah, the one that’s right on they call it 7th Street now when it crosses Depot Avenue. I mean when it crosses Main Street. It doesn’t change right there, but then when they made that circle around now, it comes to 7th Street. And 7th and 11th or 7th and Waldo Road, you know that church that sits on the corner there?

	M:	I can’t picture it, but I can sort of picture where you’re talking—



W:  Okay, that was Mount Moriah. Mount Moriah used to be up here, where, let’s see where I can tell you. There was three churches—Mount Moriah, the church here, Church of God and Christ, Shady Grove, and a church—oh, I know him! It was





Dr. Debose. The dentist was Dr. Debose. But it was another doctor. He didn’t stay here long. It was another doctor, but he didn’t stay here long, but I don’t remember his name.

	M:	So let’s see. Well if we get back to school, you were going to Lincoln. W:	Went to Lincoln from first grade through twelfth.

	M:	I guess you walked.



	W:	I walked, I walked to school. M:	Alone, or--?

	W:	With all the neighborhood kids. We walked to school and we had to pass—what is GHS, or was Buchholz? Buchholz was right there on the corner of University and Eighth Street. You know where University and 8th—? Well, Buchholz was right there. We did pass Buchholz going to school, from our neighborhood. Most of the children rode the bus there. And when the bus passed us, they spat on us, walking to school.

	M:	Did that happen pretty often? W:	Oh yeah.

	M:	That must not have been a very fun walk to school. W:	Very degrading. Very degrading.

	M:	I guess there wasn’t very much you could do about that.



	W:	Uh-huh, uh-huh and it was in a sense a short cut, you know, we didn’t walk and we cut through paths and going through school, making it. But anyway, that was our main route in going to school. And even if you had gone down Sixth Street it still would have—the bus, we wouldn’t have the bus.





	M:	Did you have many other interactions with Whites at that time?



	W:	In schooling, no. We seldom had new books at our school. We had books that had been used by the White kids from one high school at that time. We had two, the Black and the White. We always had their castoffs. Sometimes the books were written in, sometimes the books were missing pages, but whatever. That’s what we had.

	M:	People sometimes strategically tore out the pages, or—?



	W:	Well it seems that way. They may have not done that on purpose, but anyway.



That’s what we had.



	M:	I understand, I understand. Well, so do you remember any other of your teachers? You mentioned your first grade teacher already.

	W:	Basically I remember all of them. I might not be able to remember all of them in high school, but I can remember my homeroom teachers, who they were. Yeah, I can do that. Our teachers at that time, they were very caring, they wanted to make sure you were educated. They didn’t let you just sit there, and because you said you didn’t want to do it—but children didn’t say that, at that time. They were always trying. It was one of those things, you do the best that you can do no matter what. It might not be as great as what I can do, but you do your very best. And that’s what I’m expecting of you. The expectations were always very high. [Phone rings] I’m sorry. Okay, where are you leading me to now?

	M:	I see. Do you remember A. Quinn Jones at all?



	W:	Oh yeah, I know. We called him Prof. Yeah, I knew him very well. He was my principal from first grade all the way up.





	M:	What do you remember about him?



	W:	He was a man that just his countenance, demanded respect. Just the way he carried himself. Most of the children—well I can’t even say most of the children, all of them, when they saw him in the hallways, or wherever, if you were clowning, cutting the food, or doing something, you straighten right up. And he didn’t have to say a word. It was one of those things like I told you, you knew not to do something.

	M:	So Prof. Jones was an impressive figure? W:	Yes, he was.

	M:	How often did you see him?



	W:	Oh, every day. Every day. He just walked the halls. Sometimes he would come into the classrooms.

	M:	And do what?



	W:	Just kind of check what you were doing, if the teacher was lecturing. He would see if you were on task, or if you were taking notes, or you know, things like that.

	M:	I see, I see. I mean, part of the reason I’m asking is principals today, I think a lot of as the person you get sent to if you do things wrong.

	W:	You didn’t want to get sent to Prof. M:	That’s what they say.

	W:	However, basically, I’ve heard that he paddled people, but I don’t know of it. And I don’t think most kids didn’t. It was basically the boys that were, I guess more streetwise than anything, that they got paddled. And I understand it wasn’t any more than three licks that he gave you. But they remembered.





M:  I see. But it seems like he took a more active role in being in the classrooms and interacting with the teachers.

W:  He did that. He did that. And the teachers, even though we respect, you could tell he demanded respect from the teachers also. I mean, it was nothing said. It’s like an unwritten law. A law that you have read and know to keep.

M:   I see. So did you have any favorite subjects?



	W:	I think my favorite was math, when I went to college I intended to major in math and I did, but I went from one extreme to another: from an A to an F. The only time that I got an in-between grade it was exam time, and it just, it broke my spirit, actually. It actually broke my spirit because I thought I was pretty good in math, but going to college, it was different.

	M:	I guess so.



	W:	Like I said, it really broke my spirit and I changed my major. M:	To what?

	W:	To elementary.



	M:	Elementary education? W:	Uh-huh.

	M:	Were there any math teachers who inspired you in Lincoln, or was it the subject itself?

	W:	Yes, it was one—Gosh, don’t ask me to remember that name. Miss Halloway was one of them, but then there was another little petite, she was very petite— oh! Ms. Johnson. Miss Johnson. I don’t remember her first name, but Miss Johnson—I know Wilhelmina Halloway. I remember her. Those were people





that, I don’t know, it was just something that, Ms. Johnson was just so tiny that, and she was a very petite lady, and those guys, when she would start her math, I mean they would come in kind of clowning, like you know, but once she got to that board, that was it. You could hear a mouse on a piece of cotton. That’s right. She was one, even though she was petite, she demanded. It was something about the character of certain teachers. They didn’t have to say stop talking, take out your papers, they knew they was there. I don’t know what it was, I guess it was their management style. Hey, playtime was over.

	M:	Did you end up with a lot of homework too?



	W:	Yes, I had homework but my stepmom was—she was a cook in the kitchen, and I didn’t go home basically until my dad picked us up, and so I got my homework in school. It wasn’t so bad for me because I had to wait anyway, so why fool around and not do anything? And I had some help.

	M:	When you say she was a cook in the kitchen, you mean at the school? W:	Yes, uh-huh.

	M:	What kinds of things did you eat in the school lunch?



	W:	Really I don’t remember. I know they used to have good spaghetti. I know that. [Laughter] I remember that. And they had good rolls, they had good cinnamon rolls. I don’t remember basically what we had at school, but I do remember that spaghetti.

	M:	I see. What kind of events did you go to—? The sporting events, or any of the parades?





	W:	Yes. We had parades, we had our queens, we had football, we had basketball, we had volleyball. The boys had what they call AG [1:02 inaudible] and industrial arts. Agriculture and industrial arts. And at that time they were taught how to care for the animals and they had a few animals…I’m not sure where they had the little farm, but they did have a little farm that they would actually take the guys out on certain days. Then in industrial, they would learn woodwork, and they had to build a birdhouse and two, three little activities—that was their project for the year. That they had to construct. They learned how to measure, they learned how to cut and use different tools.

	M:	And that was only for the boys?



W:  For girls, too. Home economics. And we learned how to cook, how to sew. And well, basically, when you learn how to cook and you learn how to sew, that was just about—and you did that for a semester. You cook for a semester, you learn how to make certain things for a semester, and then we got better, you know, at it.

M:   Did you learn any of those things at home as well or was it mostly at school?



W:  I learned how to really make different kinds of seams at school with the sewing machine. Different kinds of plackets—I didn’t know there were different kinds of plackets and stuff. How to [coughs] excuse me. Something is in my throat and it will just not go away.

M:   Do you need some water?



	W:	It’s not going to do any good, draining the back of my throat. M:	Oh, yeah.





	W:	Anyways, I learned how to really read a pattern and I event made a pattern from newspaper of something that I wanted to make. And I learned how to cook very well, make cakes and when we made cakes and you read a recipe, you did it to the exact whatever. Whatever. If it said “a pinch” you take a pinch. If it said “a half a teaspoon full” or “full teaspoon full” that’s what you used.

	M:	I see.



	W:	So I, I can cook. [Laughter]



	W:	I can cook. And I think—I’m not bragging, but—I’m a pretty good cook. And I’m a pretty good baker.

	M:	Fair enough.



	W:	My mom taught me too, but I think it was still that early learning that I got there that helped.

	M:	I can understand.



	W:	And when I had my little girl, I used to make all of her clothes because, well I just liked those look dainty things, with all the little laces and the different kind of little buttons and all of that. I used to enjoy doing that. And I haven’t done any of that since she was started, once they don’t want those homemade clothes anymore.

	M:	Oh yeah.



	W:	Uh-huh. Want to be with the big kinds, so I stopped sewing. I was knitting and crocheting. I did all of those things. And I have a sweater now that I started when she was probably about six years old, and I got the whole the whole the arms, the legs, the back and the front, and I never put it together. And I still have it. And I don’t know I’m saving it, but I did it. Baby blue.





	M:	So where did you get your fabrics back then? Did you go to downtown, or where?



	W:	Yes, we had lots of fabric stores. We don’t have any fabric stores now! I think we have one, and that’s Joanne Fabric. But we used to have lots of fabric stores. A lot of people did sewing. They had so many kids they had to learn to do something.

	M:	Yeah, I guess so. Were they in the neighborhood, or did you have to take—? W:	I remember the first, our first shopping center was the Gainesville Shopping

Center, the one that’s on Main Street.



	M:	Okay, yeah.



	W:	That was our first shopping center. But where all of the bars are now, that’s where downtown was, and that’s where we went then. Belts used to be where I think its Emeralds. On this side of, what is that, First Street. Is that Emilio’s or Emeralds?

	M:	Oh, might be Emilio’s.



	W:	That’s where Belks used to be. Sears used to be between Jacks’, where Jack’s used to be and somewhere. Belt’s also used to be where that kind of cave-like building on this side of Main Street. It’s an arch, and archway in there.

	M:	Not picturing it, but I’m sure I know where it is.



	W:	It used to be there. Now the main, what you call and exclusive store, was Wilson’s. Wilson used to be on the corner of, what is that? First, and First and University Avenue. Where the informational center is, tourist information center. You know where that is? Right on the corner. That was Wilson that was a big- time store. I mean, when I say big-time, kind of exclusive. And once next to it,





you only went there for real, real, real special occasions, and most people never went in there. And oh God, what was the name of that place. It was one of those stores when Blacks went in they almost looked at you like what are you doing in here? Can’t think of the name of it. But anyway, I know that’s where I ordered my wedding dress from.

M:   I see. Was it difficult to go into the other stores during segregation or-?



W:  It kind of depend, my dad was kind of well known so I could kind of—everybody knew everybody that was the thing. They knew that you were a part of a certain family, you know?

M:   Okay.



	W:	That’s the way that went or if they didn’t know you that way, he works for so-and- so, so they knew you that way.

	M:	Okay. And when people could place you it was easier to interact? W:	Uh-huh, uh-huh. It was by association.

	M:	I see. Was there any perception of the Porters neighborhood?



	W:	At one time, it was. Well, it still kind of carry that connotation to it. It was supposed to be in a sense, a neighborhood where things happen. Like I said on the weekend with the drunks, all the drunks, drinkers. It had that kind of connotation.

	M:	Did people call the police when there were fights or did they just kind of-?



	W:	Yes, at one time there were only two Black cops and one was from this neighborhood and that was one of the first. And his name is C. J. Palmer. And then you had Sargent Lewis.





	M:	And were they routinely sent here?



	W:	Mostly, yes. In fact, their beat was here, they didn’t go into the other areas. M:	I see.

	W:	Their beat was on here and on Fifth Avenue.



	M:	Okay. And they did they have a lot of respect in the community?



	W:	Oh yes, oh yes. Palmer had this voice of “Man, you need to go home.” M:	Just like that. So he very rarely [inaudible 1:12:26]

	W:	I won’t say very seldom had to make an arrest, they would tell them that they need to go home or stop what they’re doing. Mostly they would tell them you need to go home, and you need to go home now. They would make their way. Sometimes they didn’t go home, they make a circle, or whatever, but they left from where they were.

	M:	I see, and was that the typical way of dealing with that?



	W:	Sometimes, and sometimes they would arrest them. And when the other policeman would come in the area, they never came by themselves. It was always, they were in fours.

	M:	I see.



	W:	And I’m not sure if it happened in the other areas, or not, but they didn’t come down here alone. There was always at least three or four.

	M:	Did they usually make arrests then?



	W:	They sometimes did and sometimes they didn’t. Sometimes they would call Palmer and Sargent Lewis and they would take care of the problem and they would be arrested. Sometimes they would and sometimes they wouldn’t. But





most of the times it was of such a nature that they had to be arrested, especially with fights.

	M:	I see. The fights got pretty bad? W:	Uh-huh.

	M:	Just getting’ too drunk kind of thing? W:	Uh-huh.

	M:	All right, that happens.



W:  But then after a while, when the drug situation started, that was the changing over. The changing over. That’s when integration started, and that’s once the drugs started it was a whole different ballgame.

	M:	So you’d say the drugs started appearing more directly after integration? W:	Uh-huh, uh-huh.

	M:	The [19]70s I guess? W:	Uh-huh, uh-huh.

	M:	So what was the effect then? I mean the fights got worse?



	W:	I won’t say the fights got worse, but it was a different kind of game. The atmosphere was different. I won’t say that it had stakes, but you knew that certain people were doing things they shouldn’t do. You could just tell.

	M:	I see. It was, I mean what kinds of drugs were circulating at that time, do you know?

	W:	Basically marijuana.



	M:	Okay, okay. Let’s backtrack a little. We were talking about Lincoln. So around what time did you decide you were going to college?





	W:	It was a known fact. It was just a known fact. I always knew. I mean, I had no doubt in my mind when I was going to school that I was going to finish. That was instilled in my head every day, that you gonna make something of yourself. You gong be better than I am. You just got to do it. I remember when I left here and was going to [inaudible 1:16:21] my dad told me the only way that I could come back home was that I was too dumb to learn.

	M:	Hmm, fair enough.



	W:	It was just something that was instilled in me, that you were gonna have a better life than I have.

	M:	Did your parents have any—what was their education like?



	W:	Not that great, probably about an eighth grade level. I would think, I know mom, I’m not certain about Dad. But he was a person that always wanted to be, I’m not gonna say entrepreneur, but that’s what he was.

	M:	Okay. And so he always wanted that extra education. I understand



	W:	He owned about three houses. He owned one of the jukes. He owned the barbershop. He owned a laundry, a pressing club. They called it a pressing club at that time but it was a laundry. They did, they actually did laundry work.

	M:	And he owned all that? Was there a name to the barbershop? Or to the juke?



	W:	[Laughter] it was like the name of the person. Like, we going down to Henry’s, or we’re going down to Stella’s, or we’re going down to Ike’s. It was just one of those things.

	M:	The barbershop, too? W:	Yeah.





	M:	Fair enough, fair enough.



	W:	Now he didn’t run it, but gosh, what was that family name that ran the cleaner. Vincent’s. The Vincent’s ran the clearness. Dry-clean your clothes and press them. They ran that building but they ran it, they were operators in it. The—you know I don’t remember who first, I know Mr. Hamilton owned this, and then Dad had a poolroom in there. Dad had a poolroom in the barbershop. The barbershop is still there.

	M:	What’s it called now?



	W:	Gin’s. Gin’s Hair Masters.



	M:	I see. Your father kept pretty busy, didn’t he? I don’t know, that’s a lot to keep up.



And he stayed on top of things, or?



	W:	Until he became a drunk. He was one of those persons that he would go on binges.

	M:	I see. Did he keep the barbershop going or anything after that?



	W:	Oh yeah, and then he decided that he was gonna let go and let somebody else have that. Like I said, he remarried and had two kids after that. Miss Ella left, and I’m not sure what happened at that time because I was gone, but anyway, I was in school. But anyways, he started drinking and he would go on these binges.

Sometimes for two days, got to be a week. Two weeks. Then clean up and all good again.

	M:	Fair enough.



	W:	But that’s what he did.





	M:	That happens. It happens. And so was there anything else you’d want to say about your experience at Lincoln, or?

	W:	Like what is it specifically? I was, I think I was active. I was a majorette there. I was not a majorette—I was in the drill team. I played a little basketball. I was in the dramatics club, the first big play that we had, it was—was it Papa Was a Creature? I think that was it. And one of our, that’s when we started getting some of the new, the graduates from FAM coming to Lincoln to do their internship. Mr. Dukes who became a principal played a part in the play, and I was his kid. So it was just, I enjoyed school.

	M:	Did you have any reaction when they integrated the high schools here?



	W:	I wans’t here, I was gone. I was at, in Atlanta at that time when that really happened. I know about tit, and I participated when I came home. In Atlanta, I got to know Reverend King, personally. He would come to our school. We had what we call vesper, every day. He would come and speak to us on some days. His father would come and speak to us on some days. We were right, maybe, two blocks from his dad’s church, Ebenezer Baptist Church. So I got to actually participate and know some of the persons that were in his entourage I’d say.

	M:	How did you end up deciding to go to Atlanta, to go to Clark?



	W:	Well, it was one of those things that I didn’t want to go to school in Florida. I wanted to leave. I wanted to stretch my wings. And so I really wanted to go to Chicago. I wanted to be an interior decorator. But dad say that was too far, no. I had not been away from home and going to, and at that time, that was the only school that I was aware of that was accepting Blacks into the industrial school in





Chicago to be interior decorator. Why I wanted to be that, I’ m not sure. But that’s what my mind’s desire was, at that time. So I decided that I didn’t want to go to school in Florida so my girlfriend and I, Doris Welcome, whom I have known since fourth grade, we went to school through high school together, and we went off to Clark together, and graduated from Clark together.

	M:	What was it like to—you lived here your whole life, so that’s a big move. I would think.

	W:	It was quite different, but then school was not like you know it. We were, it was a church related school. Clark was a church related school. We had, like I told you vesper every day, which is a church related activity. You had your campus, and the campus was probably no bigger than from Depot to Fourth Avenue. And that was it. And that was your community.

	M:	I see.



	W:	So even though it was different, they are still in a community that when we went down to the store, which is probably like the next block down from the school, we went across the block, which we call Pascoe’s Brothers, you may have heard of Pascoe’s Brothers. That was an outlet, just going across the street to Pascoe’s, and it was like a sundry kind of place, where you can get your milkshakes and your drinks and a sandwich and you know, kind of show all the things. However nowadays at Pascoe’s, it’s a big dining room where people actually make reservations to go to Pascoe’s now. But at that time, that’s what it was.

	M:	I see. What was the community like at Clark? Were the teachers involved personally with you?





	W:	Some were and some were not. Some were, you saw them in the classroom situations and that was it. And some would kind of interact with you, and they would come in the dining room, where we had dining room, and they would eat with us. Not with us, they had a separate area but still. They were with us.

	M:	I see. When did you arrive at Clark? W:	In September of [19]56.

	M:	Okay, so you graduated Lincoln in [19]56? W:	Uh-huh, June.

	M:	Okay. Okay. What were your impressions of Atlanta at that time?



	W:	I thought—Atlanta still is, the metropolitan place of the south. You know, and it was up and moving. In fact, Aretha Franklin, oh gosh, what’s her name, Gladys Knight, all attended Clark. When they were there. But Aretha got expelled from Clark because she was then doing things out in the community at the club, singing in the club, and that would not be. Like I said, it was a church school.

	M:	I see, fair enough. And so you met?



	W:	Red Fox, and all of them. They were part of Clark. I got out know, what are some of those peoples’ names. The Bonds. Gosh, what is his name? Bonds, in Atlanta. You know Bonds and Brown. Brown and I were really close, and I can’t even think of his first name now. It’s been a while. It’s been about 50 years now. [Laughter]

	M:	I understand.





	W:	But anyway I got to know personally a lot of the people that was in a Martin Luther King’s close-knit group. And some of the wannabes in the group, and did become somebody, an outstanding figure.

	M:	So was there much discussion of civil rights?



	W:	Oh yes. At Clark you had Clark, you had Atlanta University, you had Morehouse, you had Spelman. All of us was one sitting on one corner, one sitting on another corner. It was just like that. It was a what you call an educational circle. Morris Brown; all of those was right there, so we were surrounded with people that were making, they were the ones making the scene so to speak. Making the what’s happening.

	M:	So had you discussed civil rights before, when you were living in Gainesville?



	W:	Somewhat, but it wasn’t—the people were older and I was not concerned, you know, at that point in time. I was more aware and concerned when I got on the campus. And just hearing the different speakers come in, and then we would have our sessions of discussion of what was being said. What should be done, what we could do, all of the sit-ins and all that.

	M:	I see. Did that change your perspective on Gainesville when you got there?



	W:	Well, when I was in Atlanta, I was doing what the Romans do. [Laughter] Okay?



	M:	Fair enough, fair enough. So what kinds of activities, did you end up becoming part of the sit-ins?

	W:	Oh yes, oh yeah.



	M:	You remember any in particular?





	W:	It was well, whenever they plan one. We would sometimes march. And sometime, it depends on how my education was at that time, what I participate in. Sometime I looked out the window and saw them, when I wasn’t participating. I, you know, wished I were. But I still had a goal that I had to reach.

	M:	Oh yeah, understandable. Were all of them in Atlanta, or did you ever travel? W:	No, I didn’t travel with them at all. No.

	M:	Just Atlanta. Did you come home very often or you stayed there? W:	We came home for Christmas, Thanksgiving, and school out.

	M:	What did you do in the summers then?



	W:	When I was at home? I tried to get a job. My first job I remember was at Shands, I was operating a small little—I guess you can say, almost like a little coffee shop. All they had was coffee and danish.

	M:	Okay, and that was during the summer.



	W:	That was during the summer and Shands. Shands was not what it is now, in [19]56. It was not what it is now. I can tell you that. In fact I always wondered where that little nook was, because they have been adding on and on and on you know, but I can’t even imagine where it is, where it is. And I’m out there every week. I volunteer at Shands.

	M:	That is a lot of change then.



	W:	Uh-huh. I’ve seen a lot of change in Gainesville. I mean a lot of changes. If you have not been here within the last ten to fifteen years, you wouldn’t believe Gainesville, how it’s changed.

	M:	What sticks out in your mind, in particular?





	W:	Well, the University has changed, downtown certainly has changed. The streets have changed. Right here in my community we’re being what you might say inundated on all sides. All the community right down there on Fourth Avenue is coming this way. The courthouse is coming this way. The storm water park is coming this way. I mean it’s on every side. We’re almost like this, boxed in. The community was right there on Sixth Street. Think about it.

	M:	Oh yeah, well it’s a great location.



	W:	I don’t feel like it’s going to be a community for very long. I might not be here to see it, but in the next twenty years, I don’t believe it’s gonna last twenty years. It may. But I doubt it.

	M:	It’s, it’s tough. So how would you say it’s still community today, with so many people?

	W:	Well, I wouldn’t say, the way a lot of them have died. My mom—the picture over there—my mom was three months from being 100.

	M:	Wow.



	W:	Miss Fox over there died two years ago. She was ninety-eight, and like Mr.



Brooks over there, he’s a hundred two. That’s a long time, and the only thing I see different from Mr. Brooks and Mom and all of them, Mr. Brooks now doesn’t go out. Mom was still trying to go. I mean she wasn’t ill or anything, but she was kinda frail. She was a thin woman, and she just said that she didn’t feel like going all the time. But she saw a lot of changes, a lot of differences.

	M:	I can imagine. So when you were coming back in the summers, did you bring back any of the civil rights activism with you?





	W:	I tried to, and I can name some places that you don’t even know about. We had the Piggly Wiggly, have you heard of Piggly Wiggly? We had some of the restaurants I went to that basically none Blacks attended there, but I made sure that I went there.

	M:	I see.



	W:	I got a friend and we went. But we were treated nicely. M:	So there was no—

	W:	No. We weren’t asked to get up or anything. Now Vernon, my husband, he experienced a lot with the—he’s a year younger than I am, and at [19]57, when everything started happening here, and see I was gone. He experienced a lot with the city and stuff like that. I didn’t because I was gone. It was kinda like this. With me.

	M:	Just two different trajectories. W:	Uh-huh.

	M:	So the restaurants didn’t refuse to serve? W:	No.

	M:	Just, people didn’t go?



	W:	No, they didn’t go. At that time and what, [19]57 and [1958, times were kinda tight. You know, as far as money wise? And that was probably the main reasons. But I made sure, I wanted to know what it was like, and I made it my business that I was going.

	M:	What did you think?





	W:	Well, it was kind of like I was treated almost in some cases too nice. You know people would be going out of the way to be nice to you. It wasn’t real. You know what I’m saying? It wasn’t a real thing that was being extended to others, you could tell that.

	M:	Yeah, I can understand.



	W:	So the perception was still not, it wasn’t a true—what you might say? You know what I’m saying. You know what I’m saying.

	M:	So it still didn’t feel natural, or easy.



	W:	And it was almost like on pins, like what we were gonna do, or we’re gonna say something or do something.

	M:	I see. Did anyone else join into any of this, or it was just you and your friend?



W:  It was always two of us or four of us. And it was like I said, I was trying to think of this. It was a place down here on Thirteenth that we went to, I can’t think of it. It’s gone now.

M:   Down where on Thirteenth?



	W:	It was almost, you know the Holiday Inn used to be on Thirteenth? You don’t know anything about that.

M:   Probably not, no.



W:  Well it was right after the Holiday Inn. It was a nice place, but you know I can’t even think of the name of it. It was about four places on Thirteenth, everything was on Thirteenth rather than Archer Road at that time.

M:   I see.





	W:	All of the, basically the main eating places was on Thirteenth. And I, I can’t remember the name of them now.

	M:	Did your parents have any thoughts about your trips out there or any of your friends?

	W:	Mom didn’t. You’re sure she was on pins until we got home. And sometimes we didn’t even say where we were going.

	M:	I see. Didn’t want to worry here, or—?



	W:	Just didn’t want to worry her because she was a worrywart. M:	I see. Fair enough.

	W:	And you don’t have to go to those people places, there are enough places here for you to go to without going there.

	M:	I see. If you were going to go to a restaurant normally, where would you go around that time?

	W:	My mind is really drawing a blank on the names of the places. I really cannot think of the names. I know where they were. I can see them, but I can’t think of the names.

	M:	It happens, it happens. Did you go up to Fifth Avenue or did you stay in this neighborhood?

	W:	No, it was like I said, on Thirteenth. And it was a drive-in, you could drive in to one of the places, but I cannot think…That’s, that’s sad.

	M:	It might come back to you.



	W:	I really didn’t think you were going this way, but anyway, we’re here.





	M:	It can go anyway, I mean, it’s up to you. Let’s see. So you ended up getting into education when you were at Clark. That’s correct—? Okay. Did anything, I mean other than having difficulty and disillusionment with math, did anything kind of spur you to education in particular, or you just—?

	W:	No, I was in education and library science. When I finished school and came back here I knew I didn’t want to work in Gainesville. That was a known because I knew everybody, everybody knew me. I felt like because I mingled with all of them I wouldn’t have the respect that the older people had had. So I wanted to go off, and I went to Stuart. Stuart is a little place down south between, well just before you get to Palm Beach, in that area. I went down there, I got a job there. What happened was in Daytona they had what they called—because it was still integrated at that time, I mean segregated—the principles had a meeting. And I met some of the principals. It was like a fair, a career fair, but you knew that I met the principals down there and one of them, can’t even think of his name now, he offered me a job. I had three offers at that particular time, and I was trying again to get away from home. [Laughter] I was, I kind of had a sheltered life when I was here. I’m getting off-track, but I’ll come back. I remember on Fifth Avenue is where most of the Blacks congregated and where everything was happening. I went into one of the places that I didn’t normally go in, and it wasn’t nothing that they was doing bad or anything. I went in there and by the time I walked through the place and back out, my dad was at the front door in the car.

	M:	Really?





	W:	Now I don’t know who called him. Or what. And that’s all I did. I walked through the place—it was Wigwams, at that time.

M:   I’ve heard of that.



W:  I walked, I passed it, almost every day going to and from school when I walked. I went in there that night, and liked I said, walked to the back and back to the front, and my dad was at the door.

M:   How old were you then?



	W:	I was either in twelfth of eleventh grade. M:	Okay, so later high school.

W:   Uh-huh.



M:   And that was the first time you stepped into—?



W:   That was my first time. I think I may have been there maybe two times after then. I didn’t see anything wrong with it, but…And he didn’t say a word. I just got in the car and we came home.

M:   And that was it.



	W:	That was it. Like I said, it was unwritten law. M:	[Laughter] I guess so.

	W:	But back to where I was. I got a job down south and I worked down south for five years. And then I came back home. And the reason I probably came back home, I was interested in a guy here, and it got pretty serious, and we were talking about marriage. We did get married, and we did get married and I worked down there for a year getting married, but that was kinda hard. That was kinda hard, so





I came back home. And got a job at Lincoln, however at that time it was called A. Quinn Jones Elementary.

	M:	Okay, and what year was that? W:	That was in [19]66.

	M:	[19]66, Okay, and that was still before integration. They hadn’t moved Lincoln that was the old Lincoln?

	W:	That was the old Lincoln, the new Lincoln was over here now. Then they moved it. That was in [19]56, [19]57.

	M:	Okay. And so did you know most of the kids you were teaching then, the families?

	W:	I knew most of the parents. Some of the kids. But you see I started down in elementary school, so the little ones were the ones I knew when I was here. They were in high school and going out.

	M:	I see. What subjects did you teach?



	W:	In elementary you taught all school, you taught all levels. You taught reading, writing, English, language arts, math, social science.

	M:	So you just did it all. W:	Uh-huh.

	M:	Fair enough. Who did you, who were some of the other teachers you worked with, do you remember?

	W:	Where, at Lincoln at that time—?I even worked with some of the teachers that taught me.

	M:	Wow.





	W:	Had quite a few of them that was still there. M:	What was that like?

	W:	I was their equal at that time. Every once in a while they’d kind of say something that would put me in my place, but most of the time I Was accepted.

	M:	I see, I see. And so, was there much in terms of civil rights going on at that time, or further?

	W:	This was now [19]66, it was still there, but it was changing a lot in [1966 and [19]67. There are children that was going to GHS, there was children that was going to Buchholz and you know, in the high school.

	M:	Oh yeah.



	W:	In fact all of it changed in [19]67, [19]68. Then A. Quinn Jones was what you might call, they closed it. And we were there, all of our faculty was scattered to different schools. I went to one of the new schools that had been built. That was Glenn Springs, Prairie View, and Rawlings. I went to Glenn Springs.

	M:	What were your thought about that, at that time?



	W:	A that time there was only the high schools and the junior high schools, they were experiencing, they had Blacks and Whites in their schools, but at that time the elementary schools basically were not integrated. They were becoming integrated. In fact, when Glenn Springs opened, there were spots of children.

Overnight, at the from Christmas vacations until we got back, they integrated. They closed, I’m not quite sure which school they closed, but the children came from Monteocha area, to Glenn Springs. It was like culture shock.

	M:	How so?





	W:	The children were not accustom to being with White kids. They had been with Black kids all their lives, and not whit teachers too. In fact, I think at Glenn Springs there was, if there were five Black teachers, that’s all. Five Black teachers, and we had a staff of about thirty-five.

	M:	Did that make it more challenging for you as a teacher? W:	In some sense it did. In some sense it did.

	M:	What was the transition like?



	W:	The change was just, I felt sorry for the kids. It was just overnight. They didn’t have a chance to integrate into it. Slowly, and learn it was just—I don’t know why they did it the way they did. I mean, you go home, you in a vacation time, and then you come back and you in this completely different environment that you never been in in your life. They were segregated once they got out of the classroom. When we were out on the playground, you could see all of them just gathering together. Sometimes standing and sometimes not even playing. And that was not normal for children to do. Just standing around, just kinda looking.

You know? Like I said, it was completely culture shock.



	M:	Yeah, sounds it. Did the teachers try to do anything?



	W:	Yes. I tried real hard to make, I had a buddy to go show them the school, show them, because their schools was nothing. This was the top of the line that we were in, those three new schools. That was the top of the line. It was completely open. An open concept, no walls and things. Those kids weren’t used to that.

And we weren’t either, to be honest. [Laughter] But we learned to govern our





voices and have our children to move in lines or whatever, not to disturb other teachers. It was when that open concept came in.

	M:	So was it difficult to work with the White teachers, or were they working with you pretty easily?

	W:	I was a team leader, at that time. I had four other teachers under me—not under me, but I was responsible for.

	M:	Okay.



	W:	And when I say, responsible because we had the principal’s meeting, the principals met with the team leaders. The team leaders came out with whatever the principal had told us, you see?

	M:	I see. And that ran smoothly then, or—?



	W:	Yes, I never had any problems and I taught there for ten years. M:	Ten years?

	W:	Uh-huh. And then I moved from there, I’m going to have to start this, I’ got to make dinner.

	M:	So you want to stop it right now, or—?



	W:	What was I saying—? I never had any problems with any of my staff, I go along well with them. I did have one Black, both the first year, but she started as an intern, and then after her internship she became a teacher and she was in my quad. We called them quads, really, rather than grades at that time. That really was the same thing. Quad A, quad B, quad C. D, E, and F. ‘Cause we went up to sixth grade. From kindergarten to sixth grade.

	M:	Okay, so just the naming system.





	W:	Uh-huh.



	M:	Fair enough. Well, I can think of plenty more question, I don’t want to keep you from your dinner, though. Would you want to do a follow up interview in the future?

	M:	We can. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Priya Kamath



	Audit-edited by:	Anna Jimenez; May 2014



	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 20, 2019