AAHP 630B; Durant; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 630B Elizabeth Durant African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Marna Weston on January 23, 2010 18 minutes | 11 pages



Abstract: In this interview, which was conducted on Elizabeth Durant’s 101st birthday, Ms. Durant reflects on the reasons for her good health and longevity, claiming them to be because of her faith and Love. Ms. Durant briefly talks about desegregation and the effect it had on the Black community, as well as her opinion on the matter.



Keywords: [African American History Project, Joel Buchanan Project, JBA, Faith, Black Church, Desegregation]





























































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 630B

Interviewee: Elizabeth Durant Interviewer: Marna Weston

Date of Interview: January 23, 2010





	D:	He said, “That’s okay Momma, we going to take you out.” Well, I thought it was just Eric and his wife, and Jack and Charlie and myself. I didn’t know it was — well I said this is some surprise. [Laughter] And when she told me you was coming, I said I don’t believe that. She said you was coming.

	W:	Well, it’s nice to share the time with you.



	D:	Well, I appreciate it. I appreciate it so much.



	W:	This is Marna Weston, and I’m speaking with Ms. Elizabeth Durant at her home at 501 West Lisbon Avenue in Deland, Florida in the celebration of her 101st birthday. Thank you so much for talking to me today. I just wanted to give a chance for you to reflect on what it means to be a hundred one years old. What does that mean to you?

	D:	It doesn’t mean much, because it just seems like another day. I don’t have no complaints, and I don’t have no aches or nothing. I said, “I don’t feel like I’m a hundred one.” They say, “Well you are.” I say, “I know I am, because Momma said I was born 1909, so I have to be, but I just don’t feel that old.” So I guess it’s all some of God’s work. One of the most important things, they say, “Well, what do you account for?” I say, honoring your mother and your father. I say, “That’s number one,” and I say I stuck by my mother and father until they all was gone. All my sisters is gone. All my brothers is gone. My grandmother’s gone. My great- grandmother, great-grandfather. I say, so I guess God left me here for some





purpose. All I can think of is, rather than think of myself all the time, think of somebody else. It is from the heart, not for a lot of publicity. What I do is because I love a person, and I want to do something. So that’s it. [Laughter]

	W:	Last year, we celebrated your 100th birthday at the community center down on South Clark Avenue and the Mayor came and read a proclamation, and you sang a song to Eric, to your grandson.

	D:	Right. Right. [Laughter]



	W:	Do you see a big difference between your 100th birthday and your 101st birthday?



	D:	No. No, it all seems like the same to me, I mean, as far as age and health is concerned. As I say all the time, I appreciate what you do for me, but I’d rather do something for somebody else than have them do for me, especially [as] long as I’m able to do for myself.

	W:	What is one of your days like, just a regular day?



	D:	Just a regular day. Most of the time I don’t have anything to do. I get up and do what little bit I do around here. I go over there and get in my grandson’s yard and rake and pick up tree, uh, limbs [Laughter] and do their ironing. She does the laundry, the washing, and I do the ironing. That’s it.

	W:	Are you looking forward to your church service tomorrow where your congregation will honor you?

	D:	I am. Yes. One of my deacons came by Wednesday and said, “Your pastor wants to know will you be there church Sunday?” I say, “Unless I’m ill or something happen,” I said, “he knows I’m there every Sunday.” He said, “Well, you be sure and be there Sunday, because they honoring you.” I said, “I don’t





want all that honor!” [Laughter] He said, “Well the deacons are taking the deaconesses out to dinner, and they want you in the number.” I said, well I guess I’ll have to be there. [Laughter]

	W:	How long have you been a member of that church?



	D:	When I was six-years-old, my oldest sister carried me to Sunday school there.



I’ve been there ever since. Now, subtract six from a hundred one.



	W:	Ninety-five years. D:	Okay.

	W:	What is the name of the church? D:	Greater Union First Baptist Church W:	Who is the current pastor?

	D:	Reverend… excuse me [Coughing] I’m trying to recall my pastor’s name from Lake Helen. No, I can’t recall his name right now.

	W:	I don’t think it would matter, but I think you’ve told me what his name was.



	D:	Reverend Bradley. Reverend Bradley from Lake Helen. He’s been there for ten years now.

	W:	So what do you expect tomorrow will be like at church?



	D:	I hope it will be like it has always been, and I’m sorry you can’t be there to hear our choir sing. We have a wonderful choir, a large choir, a large pastor. I love Reverend Bradley, and not just him alone, his beautiful wife and his two sweet children.

	W:	What do you love so much about the church?





	D:	Everything that goes on there! [Laughter] I don’t know of anything that I’m displeased with.

	W:	Well, I appreciate you taking just a minute or two to talk with me. D:	Oh sure! No worries. You need me.

	W:	Well, it was so nice to be able to share this time with you. I do wish I could be here tomorrow.

	D:	I sure wish you could. And if you can, I would love for you to come back one Sunday when you can go to church, especially on the first Sunday when the whole choir is singing. Years ago, my youngest brother left and went to New York. He stayed there years, then he came back and he organized a men’s choir. Then a friend of mine from, I done forgot now, but she was a teacher and she came here to teach and she organized a young choir… what am I trying to say?

	W:	A youth choir?



	D:	Youth choir. So I’d love for you to meet her. She was a great singer and a teacher. Her name is Ms. Odom, Carnetta Odom. She lives here still.

	W:	You mentioned living here. I just want to ask you what does it feel like to live across the street from the same house you were born in one hundred one years ago?

	D:	I don’t think I would be happy living any place else! [Laughter] W:	[Laughter]

	D:	I really don’t! When I first knew myself, I was over there. After I got to be about eighteen or twenty-years old, my mother said, “That lot across the street, I’m buying that for you.” I said, “Well, Momma, I’m trying to do all I can for you, why





you want to spend your money on me?” She said, “You’ve been so nice about helping to take care of me and my children. Till I want to give you something that you can remember when I’m gone.” This land, this lot, was the lot that she gave me. I told Big Eric, [Laughter] I said, “Unless you just can’t get rid of it, let it pass from one generation to the other.” I said, “Now, I have you and your sister. When I’m gone, it belongs to the two of you. If you want to buy her out and she wants to buy you out, that’s up to you all, but I’m leaving it for the two of you,” because they were the only two grands that I have.

	W:	Do you think that land ownership is important? D:	I hope! [Laughter] Just the memory means a lot.

	W:	To pass it down, that it was passed to you, and pass it to the next?



	D:	I gave it to Jackie. My oldest sister used to say all the time before she ever got ill, “If anything happens to me, I’m going to will my place to the one that takes care of me.” One day I was messing around doing something in a drawer, and I saw a will that she had made out to me. So I asked her, I said, “When did you make this out?” She said, “I made it out when you started taking care of me.” I said, “Well, I took care of you because I loved you, not because I wanted you to give me something.” She said, “Well, I gave it to you because I love you.” So I finally said, at my age, this is all I need, so I gave it to my daughter. In turn, she’s selling it to her son. I said, now isn’t that something? Why would she sell it to him when I gave it to her? I said, she should have given it to him. But I stay out of it. I don’t say nothing. [Laughter]

	W:	What do you think is the secret to such a long life?





	D:	Like I first said, loving other people, especially my mother and my father. Momma had five girls and four boys, and I helped Momma raise every one of them but two. Then when they started having children, I helped raise them. So I said, well, maybe I did work too [Inaudible 10:00] in my lifetime. [Laughter] As I first said, what I do for somebody else is from the heart, not for publicity and not that I want them to do something for me. Long as I can do for myself, let me do for myself.

When I get so I can’t do, then I appreciate it.



	W:	Well, we are so very honored, and you look so nice in your North Star Leadership Council pin. As a member of the alumni of the North Star Leadership Council, we’re very honored that you would accept an honorary membership with our organization. Your life of service and leadership—

	D;	Talk just a little louder.



	W:	Okay. Your life of service and leadership definitely helped to exemplify what we think the organization is all about. What do you think about leadership, just in general, about leaders?

	D:	Well, I must be honest with myself. When they started desegregation, I had been working for a woman about ten or twelve years. They always ate in the dining room, and I ate in the kitchen. So she said to me one day, “Elizabeth, what do you think about desegregation? Are you for it?” I said, “No, I’m not. She said, “Do you know what that means?” I said, “Yes.” She said, “Well, why are you not for it?” I said, “Because you have some ignorant people in your race, and I have some in mine. You have some in your race. I don’t care what you do to try to please them, they’ll call you a nigger,” I said, “and that’s a word I can’t stand.” I





said, “Before I work for somebody that calls me a nigger, I’ll drink water and eat [Inaudible 311:47].” She said, “What is pear nutter...?” [Laughter] So I told her. She said, “Well, we have some people in our race y’all call crackers, and we don’t get offended.” I said, “Well, maybe not. I don’t call you crackers. I call you colored.” I said, and “That’s what I appreciate you’d call me. Call me colored, don’t call me a nigger.” So that’s the way I felt about it.

	W:	Since you mentioned desegregation, February 1st is the fiftieth anniversary of the sit-ins up in Greensboro, North Carolina when the four Black students sat at the lunch counter and wanted to be served lunch. What is your reflection on the sit- ins and how things changed starting in February 1960?

	D:	Well, I think it’s nice that they changed, because, like I say, Black or White, you’re flesh. One year I went to Chicago to visit my sister, and I saw a colored fellow coming down the street with his arms around this White girl. I said, “Oh my god, they going to lynch him when they find out!” [Laughter] Didn’t know that that was going on up there! But I’m still colored, and I’m going to stay colored. I don’t want no… what I’m trying to say, lot of them marry White. No, no, I don’t want that. I’m Black and I want to marry Black if I marry.

	W:	Do you remember the first time that you voted? D:	No. I’ve forgotten.

	W:	Did you ever have problems when you tried to go vote or was it always— D:	No.

	W:	It was okay?



	D:	Mmhm.





	W:	What about eating at the lunch counters? Was that ever a problem? D:	No, because I never tried to eat out; only on the job and at home.

	W:	Did you know people that went to get service downtown and were refused? D:	I’ve heard of them, but I really didn’t know them.

	W:	Barack Obama being elected President of the United States — how do you feel about that?

	D:	I think it’s wonderful! [Laughter] A lot of them said that he’s not doing things, and I said well, it takes time. I said, he’ll straighten out things later, I hope.

	W:	Were you surprised when he was elected?



	D:	Very much so. Very much so. My great grandmother, I used to visit her a lot.



One day we were sitting down talking and she said, “Daughter, you know what?” She said, “One of these days, the top rail is going to be on the bottom and the bottom rail is going to be on the top.” I said, “Grandma, what you mean by that?” She said, “The White folks on top now, and we’re on the bottom, but one of these years, they going to be on the bottom and we going to be on the top.” Well, the President has proved it.

	W:	Do you think that he’ll be re-elected in three years? D:	I hope.

	W:	Will you vote for him in three years? D:	Would I? I sure would! [Laughter]

	W:	Well, I was saying will you? Not would you, but will you? [Laughter] D:	Will! Who said I was going to live three more years? [Laughter]

	W:	Well, we could only pray for that blessing.





	D:	[Laughter]



	W:	You seem very healthy. I mean, how are you feeling?



	D:	Fine. Fine. That’s the reason I say I thank God. Nothing ever worries me. Nothing ever — I mean, I never aches. When you get outside, you see my garden where I hoe all the time. When I don’t have anything to do, I go over there to my grandson’s and work in his yard. So I said, that’s a blessing from God.

	W:	This entire neighborhood knows you and they call you Mother DI or Mrs. Durant.



Everybody has a little name for you. What lesson would you like to leave for everyone else to have a good life and get to the kind of place where you are? What lesson would you leave for younger people?

	D:	Do unto others as you have them do unto you, number two. Number one: forget about yourself and do for those that are in need. That’s number one.

	U:	Hey, Momma!



	D:	Yeah?



	U:	I’ve been to go, Sweetie.



	D:	Okay, Darling. Thanks a million for coming. U:	Who are you now?

	W:	I’m Marna Weston. U:	Do I know him? No. W:	Well, we’ll see.

	D:	No, he’s formerly from West Palm Beach. U:	Really? Huh?

	W:	So my Grandma and her are cousins, so that makes us cousins. [Laughter]







U:



D:



U:

[Laughter] Oh that’s right! Yeah! Be good. Okay, Sweetheart.

I’ll talk to you later.

D:

Okay.

U:

All right.

W:

Bye-Bye

D:

Thanks for coming!

U:

Okay, baby.

W:

I don’t want to keep you from your guests. I just wanted to talk to you a little bit.

D:

Okay.

W:

Thank you for talking with me again. We’ll do it again next year.

D:

Okay. [Laughter.]

W:

And happy birthday.

D:

And then I’m going to let Jackie keep in touch with you so you can come on a



Sunday.

U2:

Happy Birthday! Excuse me. Happy birthday!

D:

Okay [Inaudible at 17:11].

U2:

We going.

D:

Okay, darling. Thanks a million for coming.

U2:

You’re welcome. All right.

D:

As I started saying, I’m going to have Jackie keep in touch with you, so when you



come on Sunday and have church with me.

W:

Okay, well, thank you. I’ll have to invite you to my graduation.





	D:	When is that?



	W:	Well, hopefully it will be in August, but it might be in December, but it’s going to be this year.

	D:	Where about? W:	In Gainesville.

	D:	Oh, yeah. I could come there. I thought it was anywhere that I could catch a plane, you know, I said, no thanks! [Laughter] I’ve never rode one and scared to death to ride one.

	W:	[Laughter] No plane rides.



	D:	Never have, but Gainesville, I’d love to come to that. W:	Okay, well thank you.

	D:	You say it’s this year? W:	It will be this year. [End of interview.]





Transcribed by:

N/A



Audit-Edited by:

Sandra Romero

March 30, 2020

Final-Edited by:

Sandra Romero

February 19, 2020