AAHP 485; Gallon; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 485 Dennis Gallon

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Dr. Paul Ortiz on March 17, 2017 36 minutes | 17 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 485

Interviewee: Dennis Gallon Interviewer: Paul Ortiz Date: March 17, 2017



	O:	First of all, I’m interviewing Mr. Dennis Gallon. Thank you sir, for taking time out of your day to talk to me.

	G:	You’re quite welcome, sir.



	O:	I really appreciate it. My name is Paul Ortiz, I’m director of the UF Oral History Program. And Mr. Gallon, can we start by having you talk about where you were born, and what life was like when you were growing up?

	G:	Right here in Jefferson County.



	O:	And what was the community like when you were growing up?



G:  Back in those days, I reckon it was, I could say fair. Not near what it should’ve been. Definitely on account of discrimination, you know, was a part of it. Other than that, it was nice. I had a good life. Thank you, sir. Good life, yes, mmhm.

O:   What was the occupation of your family growing up?



	G:	My dad was a schoolteacher, and my momma, she was a housekeeper. O:	And did you go to church as a young boy growing up?

	G:	That’s all in me. For seventy-five years, I’ve been a church member. I love it. O:	And which church?

	G:	Brown Philadelphia AME.



O:   Okay. And that was the Church you went to as a boy, growing up?



	G:	Yes, sir. That’s the only one I know about, and it look like I’ll go away in there.



Leave it like that, I love it. Yeah.



	O:	Mr. Gallon, what kind of values did the pastor, did your parents, instill on you as a young boy?





	G:	What kind of—?



	O:	What kind of values? What did they try to teach you, teach the young people?



	G:	Oh, the behavior. That’s number one. Treat your neighbor as yourself, Sunday school, going to church. Had to work for a living. Don’t expect for nobody to give you all their time. Love peoples. Our God love peoples. They taught me that.

	O:	And did the church have community celebrations, like say, Emancipation Day, or events like that?

	G:	Right, we used to have what they call Twentieth of May dinners. Uh-huh. But you know, they used to call Twentieth of May for Black people organization; that hwat they would call Twentieth of May. And the Fourth of July, they call that the White organization. That’s the way they had it. [Laughter]

	O:	That’s very interesting. G:	Can I drink some water? O:	Yes, please, yeah.

	G:	See, my mouth dry. I can’t do much talking. [Drinking sounds] I have to take my water wherever I go. At the chair at the doctor’ office, they say they understand it well.

	O:	And that’s just fine. So Mr. Gallon, you’re saying that Twentieth of May, the church would sponsor a celebration?

	G:	Yes sir. They would have a big dinner event, lot of dinner and barbeque and so forth. That’s a wonderful time. Right, a wonderful time.

	O:	Would there be a speaking? Would elders speak? Would children speak?



	G:	The elders speak, right. We’ll have church first, and then we have our dinner.





	O:	Do you remember any particular messages? Was it a day where people would try to talk about—because originally, of course, it was an Emancipation Day event. Would people talk about slavery?

	G:	About slavery? Sure. Yes, cause my daddy, he had a brother by the name of Dennis who I’m named after, and they both—back in those days, they had a pretty good learning. And they read the papers, and maybe a couple of months, Uncle Bill said, “Will.” He say, “Uh-huh?” “They done lynched another little Black boy for little or nothing.” And around come another maybe four or five month, Uncle Bill say the same thing to my daddy named Willie, you know: “Will, they done lynched another little Black guy for little or nothing.” And we thought that was so tragedy. Which, I was afraid of White folks. I’m gonna give it to you like I was, six and seven years old; the way they was treating us, I was scared of them. Me and my brother, we were quite young. Uh-huh. And my daddy and momma say, “Y’all be careful. Stay in your place. Don’t get out your place.” From what I understand, these guys, they been lynching like that, didn’t do nothing, you know? And didn’t deserve that. That’s my way of thinking. For little or nothing; you remember—well, I don’t know if you remember that guy in Mississippi, went down to his uncle.

	O:	Oh, Emmitt Till. G:	You remember? O:	Yes, sir.

	G:	And he just whistle. I don’t know whether he whistled at the White woman or not, but they took him out from his uncle’ house and lynched him that night. He was





ten or twelve years old, something like that I believe it was. And I thought that kind of stuff was awful.

	O:	But things like that were happening here—



	G:	Other than that, I was all right. Because I tend to my business, and I expected other people to tend to theirs.

	O:	But Mr. Gallon, so you’re saying that your parents taught you to try to stay out of the way of White people, and not to—

	G:	You know, be in affairs with them, as much as possible. They didn’t tell me to don’t mingle with them; I mean, you know, just don’t give them no kind of problem, like violating the law, other words. That what they tell me: “Don’t y’all violate the law.” I say, “Okay ma’am. Okay, sir. We going do that, yeah.” Yeah.

	O:	And Mr. Gallon, can you talk about the school that you attended?



	G:	Far as I can remember, I went to school to Brown Philadelphia. I went to school there up until the tenth grade. And after the tenth grade, I stopped and went to work. And I work until they draft me in the Navy. When they draft me in the Navy, see, that got that little bit. Nineteen-hundred and forty-three.

	O:	Okay, so 1943.



G:  Right. Yeah, I think so. I think I’m right. O:  And where was your Basic Training at? G:  Chicago, Illinois.

O:   Okay, and what was that like?



	G:	My boot training, which it was tough. They put me on the guard duty. And I know much about guard duty as a fly do crawl—[Laughter]—crawl inside the wall. I aint





know nothing about no guard duty. And it was cold! Gol-ly, it was cold! But they give me what they call a peacoat to put on, and heavy clothes. And man, that the coldest I ever been in my life, yeah, in Chicago.

	O:	So it sounds like you’re in training in the wintertime, then.



	G:	Yeah, it was. Not really in March, but this time of year, something like that.



Wasn’t too bad. It just was cold there in Chicago, yeah. Great Lakes, they still in operation, so I learnt. That’s been what, seventy or eighty some years ago, I imagine.

	O:	Uh-huh and it’s still operating.



	G:	They still in operation, yes sir. Mmhm.



	O:	Mr. Gallon, do you remember some of the other young men who were in your training outfit? Where were they from? Were there other people from Florida?

	G:	No, nope, mm-mm. No, no. No, near my company. I know one guy went with me to Camp Blanding, Florida, and took me when we was examined for the Service. And that’s a Sneed. He went to the Marines, and they put me in the Navy. And that’s all I know.

	O:	Okay, and so you were meeting brand-new people? G:	Uh-huh, right, right.

	O:	Do you remember where they were from? Some of the places? G:	Unh-uh, no. No.

	O:	So, it sounds like your training was pretty tough.



	G:	It was. It was pretty tough. Them guys, they don’t be cussing you, but they be



cussing, you know, talking to you. You ask what they been doing, I reckon we all





be drilling. That wasn’t so bad, too. And I wasn’t used to it. It was hurting, but I couldn’t help it. I didn’t file until they drafted me. I had to go whether I wanted to or not. Which, I stayed in that Navy ‘til the war surrendered. I can’t tell you how long I would’ve been in there, but the war surrendered, and then I got out of there.

	O:	So after your Basic Training, Mr. Gallon, where did you go to? I’m less familiar with the Navy, but I assume after you finished with Basic Training you went to—?

	G:	Brownsville, Texas.



	O:	Brownsville, Texas. Okay, and what was your training there?



	G:	Buckling down the airplane trainers. Securing them, warming them up, checking their oil; that was my duty for a while. And then, in one while, they put me in what they call mess cooking, in the mess hall. In the galley, you know, running the machine with the trays, just putting the trays on it. Right, that’ what I used to do in the Navy in Brownsville, Texas until they take me cross-sea. And that was it.

	O:	And when did you go overseas? And where did you serve there?



	G:	At Guam. I was in Guam when the war surrendered. That was a time, to them Japs. It was tough, but we were a little bit tougher. Yes sir, we was a little bit tougher. They was tough, now! Yeah.

	O:	So Guam was the place you primarily were in in the Pacific?



	G:	Well yeah, right, right. See, what I was doing on the Pacific, unloading the ship’s cargo, what they call guns, ammunition, bombshells, you know; all that kind of stuff. That what we was doing. Torpedo and so forth. Pistols.

	O:	I’ve heard that was very dangerous.





	G:	It was! You had to be real careful, you know, bringing them out the ship. Out the ship, out the big ship, putting them on a little destroyer, whatever they called it, and taking them to the battlefield, whatever. It was rough.

	O:	I mean, I read that there were a lot of explosions.. G:	And it could’ve been, could’ve been. Yeah.

	O:	Wow, so but you were loading ammunition in Chicago, but then you ended up getting deployed to Guam.

	G:	No, I just had my boot training in Great Lake, Illinois. O:	Oh, Great Lakes, okay.

	G:	Then after my boot training, you know, you’d be there for so many weeks, in boot training after so many weeks. Then they’ll send you this place or wherever they want you to go. Then they sent me to Brownville, Texas, and I stayed there for a couple of years. And then from there, across the water. That been a pretty good little while ago, though. You know, just a few of us living, now. Just a few. A few of us living, mmhm.

[Brief aside about staying hydrated]



	O:	Well you know, Mr. Gallon, I interviewed Mr. Sneed. G:	Oh, you did?

	O:	Yes sir, back in September.



	G:	Yeah? He and I went to Camp Blanding together. Like I say, he went in the Marines, and I went into the Navy.

	O:	So you’ve known him for many years.



	G:	Many years, I sure did. We was in Camp Blanding together. I remember that well.





	O:	And what did you do at Camp Blanding?



	G:	You know, that’s where they examine you, whether you capable to go in the Service or not. They strip you naked, man! That was the most naked mens I ever see in my life! [Inaudible 15:51] I can’t go on to say. In line, you know, mens, they had to strip you naked. Buck naked. Yes, sir. That was in Camp Blanding. Sneed didn’t tell you that?

	O:	I don’t think he did! I think he missed that part, yeah. [Laughter] He may have skipped over that.

	G:	Yeah, they strip you naked, man! Mmhm. I remember. And then, whether you rejected or not; to go or not. And then they hit me right off. “Oh man,” say, “You make a good sailor, soldier, whatever. You all right.” And I say, “Okay.” And I went from there. They give me a date and time to catch the bus for Chicago, the Great Lakes, or whatever they might call it, go on the bus. Yeah they took good care of everything. Only thing that was so bad about it, was like I say it was so cold up there. And I wasn’t used to that kind of weather, too, you know? And they went tough with me. And after they give you your boot training, then they finish.

They do for so much for you, you know. And you get your shoes, your clothes, and what-have-you in boot training. New caps and so forth.

	O:	And so after the boot training, I’m just trying to remember, so you were loading ordinance: ammunition—?

	G:	In Brownville?



	O:	Yes.





	G:	No, that was in Guam, yeah, where I was unloading the ships and carrying off. But in Brownville, I just done kitchen work and the airplane work, buckling them pilots down. In the SNJs. Them little training planes. I had so many, maybe another guy had so many to look at, and so on.

	O:	And so, you would strap the pilots down? G:	Right. Make sure they secure for the air. O:	And they were training?

	G:	Right. Actually a lot of them was getting their training; in Brownsville, Texas.



Right.



	O:	Okay. Were those Black men or White men? G:	Doing the training?

	O:	Yes sir.



	G:	White mens. All of them I dealt with was White.



	O:	That’s real interesting. And see, I didn’t realize that they were doing that in Brownsville.

	G:	Uh-huh. Yes sir, that’s where they was getting their training, in Brownsville, Texas. Yeah because I buckled a lot of them down, and checked it all for them, and crank them up.

	O:	Do you remember what kind of planes those were? G:	SNJs.

	O:	SNJs, okay.



	G:	Mmhm, SNJs. The two-person.



	O:	I read a little bit on those, that they had real noisy engines?





	G:	They had what you call a prop. You know what that is? O:	Yes, sir.

	G:	Okay. Yeah, a prop, you know. Back in them days, they didn’t have the electric stuff like they got now. You know, they had the full motors, with the prop. The B- 29s; I can remember that well. That was the number of them. And they really had to improve them, you know.

	O:	Right.



	G:	They got away from that problem now. They too slow. [Laughter] Yes, too slow.



	O:	Interesting. So you did mechanics work some in Brownsville? In terms of like maintenance on the planes?

	G:	Right, that kind of stuff; wiping the windshields and so forth. Right, mmhm.



Checking the oil, cranking—warming them up for them, make sure they secured right. They take the air. And then they ask me to take a hop with them plenty of times. I refused. I didn’t want to go in any of those things.

	O:	Were there any crashes you remember? Any time the planes malfunctioned?



	G:	No, we was very fortunate. We didn’t have no kind of bad luck, not no sorts. All of them come in safe. We used to bring them in, we had a little light, you know? For when they do night flying? I used to park them when they come in. Yes, we were very fortunate. Yes sir. Didn’t have no bad luck whatsoever.

	O:	Good. So in Guam, you were loading or offloading ammunition.



	G:	Right, right. That’s what I was doing. Taking them off that big ship, putting them on a smaller one.





	O:	Okay. Were there ever any incidents where the ammunition would explode when you were loading?

	G:	No, mm-mm. We were very particular. Mmhm.



	O:	What did you have to do to handle that kind of ammunition? What kind of procedures did you have to take?

	G:	See, it’s on the ship. The ship got it themselves, like [inaudible 22:08], they do.



Winches, they call them.



	O:	So you had winches?



	G:	Right. And just like now, they use—you seen them now. All these construction, how they use the winches to put shingles on the house and all that. Well, they had the same stuff on the ship. That same kind of material.

	O:	I see. And what were your thoughts when you first went to Guam? You were a little fearful?

	G:	No, mm-mm. I wasn’t fearful at all. I had got good and used to everything. Got used to it. Didn’t anything bother me, because I knew I was all right with the man above. Yes. [Laughter] I wasn’t even worried. I knew he was going take care of me. Yes, sir.

	O:	Did the base you were in ever come under attack? G:	The base?

	O:	In Guam. Did the Japanese ever target you?



G:  No, they didn’t come in there because they was afraid. When we was crossing, they had this little destroyer on each side of us, looking out for them torpedoes. See them Japs, doing them torpedoes. And we had one on this side and one on





that side, right along with us. They take care of us. Yeah. I thought that was so nice. I only got seasick for a couple of days. Got all right.

	O:	Those are some pretty tough waters.



	G:	Oh yes. Right. The scent of that water was what make you sick. You smell it, you know? And oh, you better keep a full stomach when you first get on there! And you know, I couldn’t go to my room for the vomit on the floor. Where peoples was throwing up. It was terrible! But we had to then deal with it. It was nasty, but we couldn’t help it. We had about ten or twelve thousand sailors on that ship.

Something like that. Some of them got seasick and some of them didn’t. And that’s the first time I put a cigarette in my mouth.

	O:	Oh, okay! So you never smoked before then?



	G:	Mm-mm. And that was the starting of the smoking. I got seasick and one of my friend, boy said, “Mr. Gallon, take a cigarette from me. That’ll settle your stomach.” And I took one, didn’t know no better, and I start smoking from then. I must’ve was nineteen years old or something like that.

	O:	So were you in Guam when the war ended? G:	Yes, sir.

	O:	Okay, what were your thoughts when you first learned about the Japanese surrender?

	G:	Well, I was very happy about it. We had a celebration over that. “Oh, we done whipped the Japs! We done whipped the Japs!” Yes, sir. That was rejoice.

	O:	And what unit were you in there, at that point? G:	What unit?





	O:	Yes sir.



	G:	What we called then a company. That’s what we called it: a company, where you was desegregated or what that tell you. They want to put you on that front. I’ll bet you they forgot about color, creed, and [inaudible 26:44]. When they want to put them Blacks on that front—on that front line. Yeah. That the way they done.

Mmhm. Man, I always thought—like I said, I was friends with White folks. I sure was. And I was small, you know, a little fellow. Yeah, mmhm. And a lot of them tell me now, they say, “Mr. Gallon, you know, I’m so ashamed of that. The way that our people used to do yours.” I say “Well thank you. I imagine some of them feel bad about it, too.” Yeah man, I mean, they were terrible—some of them. Now I can’t say all, now. There were some good White folks, now, don’t get me wrong. And then, it was, some of them was nasty. You see, that’s why you got the Ku Klux Klan coming and going. Ku Klux, you know about it.

	O:	Yes sir.



	G:	You know it. When they should have locked that thing up. Forget it. And we all live together like peoples. Because that’s all God is: love. Yes, He love.

	O:	So Mr. Gallon, just a couple more questions, but you talked about race relations growing up. What were race relations like between Black sailors and White servicepeople during the war, like in Guam?

	G:	You said what kind of race was they? You mean was there the segregation then? O:	Yes sir.

	G:	Yeah there was the segregation. We had our own barracks. O:	Mmhm, okay.





	G:	And they had theirs. They had their own mess hall, we had ours. Right, they was segregated at that time. There was some more of my problem I didn’t care about: that segregation stuff. Yes I’m going tell you like it is. Other than that, it wasn’t bad at all. Mm-mm.

	O:	Just separate?



	G:	Right. Just separate, that was it.



	O:	Until it came time to do the fighting.



	G:	Exactly. It’s different. Our job they want you to do, something like that where they had to use some of them too, you know. We work together then, you see. Yes, we unload them ships together ‘til time to knock off. Then, I go to my barrack and they go to they barrack. That’s the way it was.

	O:	Were you able to correspond with your family when you were in Guam? Like, write letters?

	G:	They cut a lot of it out. My mom and them. I say, “I’m over here in—,” and that was it. [Laughter] They cut that part out.

	O:	Okay they censored it.



	G:	Right, they censor it. You right, they didn’t want no phone calls, they had to be careful with that mail. Yeah, they won’t accept it. They had to look through it before you mail it. Yes, sir. I don’t know they idea, but that was the idea.

	O:	So Mr. Gallon, how long were you in Guam after the Japanese surrender?



	G:	After surrender? I forgot now, really. For maybe about six month? Something like that, out there for a while longer after they surrender. In other words, I finished





school. See they took me out from my schooling; that was another thing they did. I didn’t finish my twelfth grade, I had to finish it in there.

	O:	Oh, in the military? G:	In the military, right.

	O:	Yeah, because they drafted you, I think you said, when you were in tenth grade? G:	Right.

	O:	So how old were you when you first went in? G:	About nineteen.

	O:	Nineteen, okay. So when you came back, when you left the Service, did you come back straightaway to Jefferson County?

	G:	Straight back to Jefferson County.



	O:	Okay. Had conditions changed in Jefferson County by that point? Did the war have an impact on this area?

	G:	Oh, it was much better. Because you know they used to ration a whole lot of that stuff for us, like sugar, flour and whatnot. But when I got back, they had done took that off. Yeah, pork, meat, they was saving it for us boys in the Service.

Yeah back in them days, right. Other than that, everything went well when I come back.

	O:	So what occupation did you pursue when you came back?



	G:	Farm. Me and my daddy run a big farm over there. A big farm. We were the biggest farm. See, daddy got enough for teaching school, and he and I just went in together and done some big farming.

	O:	What kind of crops did you farm?





	G:	Oh, soybean, corn, cotton, peanuts, sweet potatoes, sugarcane; we had that kind of stuff, yes.

	O:	How many acres did you farm?



	G:	Oh something like four hundred acres? Something like that. O:	Nice. And so, you lived most of your life as a farmer?

	G:	Right, that’s it. I retired from driving tractor. I put in thirty years and I thought that was enough driving tractor.

	O:	On the farm, or—? G:	Yes, on the farm.

	O:	Okay, wow. And then it seems like you have a pretty active VFW chapter.



	G:	Yes, sir. Pretty nice. Yes, sir. I ain’t making any kicking, any complaining. No.



	O:	Well Mr. Gallon, I really, again, appreciate you taking so much time out this morning to be with us.

	G:	Oh yes, I appreciate it.



	O:	Do you have any other thoughts about your life or your military service or anything that you’d like to share?

	G:	No more than I done by did it with you. What I went through, it was pretty tough, but we went through it all right. And if I had to do it again, I wouldn’t mind it.

Because time is much better now than what had been. Much better. It ain’t like it used to be now. It’s so much better and I appreciate it. It’s getting better now.

Peoples, seem like to me, got more knowledge, more understanding now than they had in them days and time, learning more right from wrong, willing to do right from wrong—I put it like that. Yes, if I had to do it for my country, I’d be glad





to do it. Uh-huh. Because I love it. I love our country. Yes sir. And I wouldn’t regret going, doing what I could. Yes sir.

	O:	All right, well Mr. Gallon, thank you for your service. We appreciate your time. G:	Thank you for having me.

	O:	Yes sir. [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Heather Gonyeau, October 2018 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, December 6, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 28, 2019