AAHP 400; Hall; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 400 Richard Hall

African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by A.J Donaldson, Justin Hosbey, Randi Gill-Sadler, Ryan Morini on January 30, 2016

1 hour, 7 minutes | 33 pages













































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 400

Interviewee: Richard Hall

Interviewer: A.J Donaldson, Justin Hosbey, Randi Gill-Sadler, Ryan Morini Date: January 30, 2016



	D:	All right, ready go.



	RH:	I’m Richard Robert Hall Jr. and I live in 4261 Manchester Rd. Mitten Clarke. D:	All right, can you spell your name for us?

	RH:	R-I-C-H-A-R-D. Robert Hall, H-A-L-L.



	D:	All right thank you. RH:	I’m a Junior.

	D:	So am I. I’m AJ Donaldson and here with— JH:	Justin Hosbey.

	M:	Ryan Morini.



	S:	Randi Gill-Sadler. D:	All right.

	M:	And it’s January 30th, 2016.



D:  Yes all right. Well we’d just like to get started with just some of your background and where you were born and what year and possibly share with us those early beginnings.

	RH:	Well I was born in Morgan, Georgia. My folks relocated when I was five months old to Winter Park. I attended the Winter Park Elementary School; primary school and I finished [Robert] Hungerford Boarding School and it’s a very strict school.

They have a bell to wake up in the morning and one that puts you to bed at night. A bell for—[inaudible 1:26] bells to go to work, a bell to go to class, a bell for studying and a bell to put to sleep. So when I was in the military, I had had four years of basic training. [Laughter] Where in the military you only had six weeks of





basic training at the time. [Inaudible 1:48] Hungerford, I received a four years as a scholarship at Xavier University of New Orleans, Louisiana. I joined the reserves in order to stay in school and had orders of active duty my junior year and I went to aircraft maintenance school [Inaudible 2:16] Air Force Base in [Inaudible 2:18] and being a Afro-America coming out of the aircraft maintenance school I was a flying Tuskegee Airman, which was a black outfit that had aircraft. I served the Tuskegee Airmen until 1949, when they disbanded. [Inaudible 2:47] We had integrated and General Davis had us in to the theater and he said they’re disbanding and we would be gone to wherever the Air Force [Inaudible 3:04] which would be Fort [Inaudible 3:05] what in the world [Inaudible 3:09]. So I entered on Okinawa, which was [Inaudible 3:11] and there were eight of us Tuskegee Airmen so we went to [Inaudible 3:21]. And one of them was on Okinawa. [Inaudible 3:30] had got married and had to wait six months for a house. At that time I had a wife and a baby. And so I finally got a house and [Inaudible 3:45] July 1st. And so June 25th, Colonel Ripley came by before I had my house, waiting on my wife to come. I had got Okinawa plant flowers in the yard and building us some bamboo furnishings and stuff. They also issued a Jeep at that time, you know [Inaudible 4:07] So I was out there with no radio and no nothin’, he came by one day and said, “Hall, how much time did you qualify in the rifle range?” And I said, “Well, Colonel, we qualified together.” I wondered why he would’ve asked that question. He said, “Well a little country up north decided to fight among themselves.” And I asked what country and he says Korea. I know Korea’s up north ‘cause I’m settled on Okinawa at the time. And I





said, “Well, you know, we just came out of a war. Can’t they send somebody else? My wife’s supposed to travel on the 1st of June, or July. And he said, “Well, how old is Ben Campbell?” And I said, “You know, about [Inaudible 4:46].” But I had no radio or nothing out there getting my house together. But anyway that was in June. Well, in September I was in K-14 [air force base] in South Korea.

This is just outside of Seoul.



	D:	What year was this, do you remember?



	RH:	That was in [19]50, when the war broke, 1950. ‘Cause I went to Okinawa in 1949, when they broke up the Tuskegee Airmen. Well I was through with the Air Force. But anyway, [Inaudible 5:23] flying status. We flew up to the Yellow River, which is where the North Korea from China. And we would bomb one under the bridge, just to keep them from coming across. So, when the river froze up, it didn’t do any good because they’ll walk across. And they came come over and they wiped us, the First Marine Division, out, they killed [5:51]. And so we, they called it a strategic withdrawal. We came back down to Japan, out of Korea. And then I was still on flying status, so we’d fly back every so often. I had missions [Inaudible 6:13]. And so, I had been overseas long enough, so they said, now on the point system you can go home, or you can have your family join you in Japan. And I’m still on flying status. I said, “No, I think I’ll go home.” And so I came back, that time they stationed me back at [Inaudible 6:36] Air Force base [Inaudible 6:37].

That’s that one time. I had four tours, though. I went to Europe twice, three times.



	D:	Wow. So, what year were you born? RH:	I was born in 1923. September.





	D:	September 1923?



	RH:	September 25, 1923.



	D:	Okay. Do you have any brothers or sisters?



	RH:	I had two brothers and one sister. My brother’s a small one, so [Inaudible 7:17] [Laughter] And I had another brother who received his Master’s at Indiana in Special Education. And my sister she finished Florida, well you see it’s now Florida State University in Orlando [sic]. This was by another name when she came out. She was one of the first to get her Master’s. Everybody got an education except me. [Laughter]

	D:	No, you have an education, you have plenty. S:	What did your parents do for a living?

	RH:	Well my mom was a schoolteacher. My brother said I should’ve been pretty smart [Laughter] ‘cause she was carrying me while she was a schoolteacher. And my dad worked for two millionaires. The Dickinson brothers. And he [Inaudible 8:19]. In fact they went north in the winters, in the summers, you know, and came south in the winters, so he’s sort of the caretaker for their properties.

	S:	And do you know why your parents moved from Georgia to Florida?



	RH:	Well probably for economical reasons, best I can figure. Of course, we went back to Georgia every summer. The three of us, my brothers, my two brothers, every summer.

	S:	You would go back to see your grandparents?



	RH:	Grandparents, right. I really enjoyed that because we’d get away with a lot staying with our grandparents, you know. You’d stay up late at night, no school.





And so when we came back in the fall every year I’d say, “Mom and dad, well, the boys we’ve got to get them ready for school again.” Get ‘em in bed so they get there, you know, ready for school.

S:   And what did your grandparents do?



	RH:	They had a farm. In fact, we still have the farm in the family. In fact, I just paid taxes on it.

	S:	And when you were up there in the summer with your siblings did you all have to work on the farm as well?

	RH:	Of course. [Laughter] [Inaudible 9:36] S:	So can you give me like a—

	RH:	Picked cotton, cut tobacco, and he built tobacco barns, he started growing tobacco in the southern part of Georgia. And he built up the tobacco barn. And we cut tobacco, cured it.

	S:	What time would you get up in the morning? What time would the day start when you were with your grandparents?

RH:  Well, I don’t know. Well, grandma would have breakfast at about 7. We’d be in the field by 8. And then had long break periods. See the old folks had to take a nap after dinner you know. [Laughter] We’d take off—there was a trestle on the farm, so we’d take off down this trestle in the summer.

	D:	So of your brothers, you mentioned Clyde, who’s the author of this. Were you more mischievous—were you the father figure in this situation, or mischievous? How was Clyde and your other brother?

	RH:	Well, I have the orders, I was the oldest.





	D:	You was the oldest, okay. [Laughter]



	RH:	Up to a certain point. [Laughter] Up to a certain age. ‘Cause see I went away to boarding school when I was, what, 14? Hungerford.

	D:	Mhm. Oh okay.



	RH:	And so I was out of their reach while I was at boarding school. So I got a pass about every so often, maybe about once every two or three months. Now even though that was Eatonville and I could walk from Eatonville to Winter Park when I got a pass.

	D:	So the farm did pretty well for the family? RH:	Pardon?

	D:	The farm that you guys owned, was it successful would you say? RH:	It got us enough to pay taxes. [Laughter]

	D or JH:	Enough to pay taxes. [Laughter]



	RH:	Well, we’ve had it—I’m trying to think how long we’ve had it. Well, my mom passed—I guess we’ve had it since the 1970s I guess.

	M:	Were your grandparents from Georgia? RH:	Yes.

	M:	So they had grown up in Georgia as well?



	RH:	Yes. On both sides—the Halls and Roundtrees. M:	And can we ask what their names were?

	RH:	Pardon?



	D:	The grandparents’ names.





	RH:	Oh yeah. John W. Roundtree and Emma Roundtree. On the Halls is William Hall and Emma Hall, on the Hall side. I have pictures of them back there [Shows picture(s)]

	D:	Oh wow okay. And who’s this nice young lady?



	RH:	That’s my sister. She’s deceased. She’s a Master’s from Florida. D:	Florida.

	JH:	Florida State.



	RH:	Not Florida State, the one in Winter Park. The university in Winter Park. They’ve changed names.

	D	They’ve changed the names?



	RH:	She was one of the first ones to get a Master’s. D:	Wow.

	S:	I wanted to go back to you talking about your time with your grandparents on the farm. When you weren’t farming you said you would be swimming. What other things did you do for fun as a child when you were in Georgia in the summer?

	RH:	Well we went fishing every Friday. [Laughter] We knew holes, where the great fishing holes were in the summer.

	S:	Okay. And what kind of fish were you catching when you were there? RH:	Brim, catfish.

	D:	Okay. Would you sell the fish? RH:	Oh no.

	D:	Just for fun?





	RH:	For fun, right. [Laughter] You know, being a child, it’s to catch fish [Inaudible 14:20]

	D:	Yeah, yeah, it’s just something you do.



	RH:	And we did a lot of fishing in Winter Park. Caught a lot of lakes in one Winter Park.

	S:	Did you go to church with your grandparents? RH:	Oh yeah. Definitely.

	S:	How often did you go to church? RH:	Every Sunday.

	S:	Every Sunday.



	RH:	And in Winter Park, every Sunday. Mount Moriah Missionary Baptist Church.



Sunday school, church. And on Sunday, like on the first Sunday, it was church all day. BYP Youth. Well, the first Sunday you always had, everybody brought food. There was a big tree outside Mount Moriah at that time. And they would spread it. And everybody brought their own foods, and you had to sample it all. [Laughter] And we used to spend the day all day Sunday. So after church, playing, and by that time it was time for BYP Youth and then the night services.

And you see we had no TV. All people had to do was talk about what happened. [laugher] About their jobs and this, and that, and everything.

	JH:	And what was BYP? RH:	BYP Youth.

	JH:	What was BYP Youth?





	RH:	Let’s see—“—People—” something or another. I’ve forgotten. But all Baptist churches had BYP youth.

	JH:	Like a Baptist youth organization?



	RH:	Yeah. And mostly young people. And a few old ones around, too, to keep ‘em straight.

	S:	Did you sing in the choir at all?



	RH:	Yes. We’ve got some pictures here somewhere of the choir.



	D:	You know one of my favorite songs in the church was “Go Tell it on the Mountain”?

	RH:	That’s right. That was sung there too.



	D:	You still got a little tone in you? [Laughter] RH:	No, no I lost my voice. [Laughter]

	D:	You lost your voice? Okay, Okay. [Laughter]



	RH:	I put it in the [Inaudible 16:29]. The first 50 was the hardest.



	D:	What was your favorite song? What was songs that got ‘em motivated? RH:	So many of ‘em.

	D:	So many of ‘em. Okay. I would like to talk more about the— your childhood experience with schooling. Was it more segregated in a lot of schools?

	RH:	It was segregated.



	D:	And can you talk more about that?



	RH:	Well, take my elementary school for example. From first to eighth grade. The textbooks we received was hand-me-down. They’d been used by white students. All marked up and stuff. In fact, a geography I plan to get is in the garage over





there in one of the boxes. And sell that place, and we tore it down. And there’s certain books that I wanted to get before it happened. But one was a geography book that was all marked up. And in that book they had about an African, [Inaudible 17:41], and he was a black boy in front of a grass hut above the ground. He had no shirt on and a big stick. So I assumed that that was the way that Africa was because that’s what I learned. In the first few grades. I had got a chance to fly over South Africa—it looks just like New York City. [Laughter] The image was still in my mind, about Africa. But I got a chance to see Africa. The southern part of Africa looks just like New York City. Skyscrapers, you know.

	D:	So the books that you were able to read, you’re saying that you thought that the hut was Africa—

	RH:	Yea—



	D:	—with the stick and—?



	RH:	Well, being a child that’s what you was taught, ‘cause that’s what was in the book. Come to find out that wasn’t true. I had to see South Africa with my own eyes?

	D:	So elementary was from first to eighth grade?



	RH:	Yeah. In those days, yeah. Now it’s changed up. Now you have, what, junior and senior?

	D:	Yeah, junior and senior.



	RH:	But from first to eighth grade was elementary at that time. And then eighth, no ninth to twelfth was high school. Now you got junior high and you got— [Laughter]





	M:	Did any teachers stand out from elementary school, are there any you particularly remember?

	RH:	Yeah, there was one, there was a couple. One by the name of Mrs. [starts with G]. Now Ms. [starts with G] was pretty heavy: she had large arms, and she was left-handed. And near the elementary school there was a swamp. And there was palmettos in the swamp. And so she kept the palmettos behind her desk in a vase. And so she’d tell you to go out—she’d tell you the specification of what size she’d want. You’d cut not too large, not too long, not too short. And she had big arms and was left-handed. And so when she dropped that down in your hand, this arm was shaking. [Laughter] So she never showed me, ‘cause I got her works in.

	D:	So how many strokes would they use? A hand face up or face down? RH:	No [Inaudible 20:28] like this—soft part [sound of hands slapping]

	D:	Soft part, okay.



	RH:	And just let it drop [Inaduible at 20:21] and just shake. [Laughter] And she never struck me ‘cause I got her work for her. I studied real hard on Mrs. [Inaudible 20:45]. We had so many kids dropped out of school in the fifth grade. ‘Cause she would not pass you unless you got her work. She was tough. And she taught there for many, many years. Even after I graduated, even after I came back after the war, she was still teaching. I went out to see her, you know. [Laughter] And she says, “Now you understand what I was trying to do, right?” [Laughter]

	S:	How did you get back and forth to school? Would you walk to school? RH:	When I was going to grammar school?





	S:	Mmhmm.



	RH:	Yes, we walked. And this was down, the roads were dirt. Deep ruts, you know. S:	And you would walk in groups together?

	RH:	Well, let’s see—no. They just had one boy at my time that was [Inaudible 21:45] from [West] Swoop Avenue down to the school. Three of us.

	S:	And how long was that walk?



	RH:	Well, let’s see. From Swoop Avenue to—. I don’t know. How far would that be, Dee, from Swoop over to the community center that’s what’s there now?

	DH?: About fifteen to twenty minutes. RH:	About how long?

DH?: About fifteen to twenty minutes.



	RH:	If you’re walking fast, huh? [Laughter].



	DH?: Back in those days they didn’t have no cars and stuff. RH:	Yeah, there wasn’t no cars or anything like that.

	JH:	What did your parents do for a living?



	RH:	Well my parents were schoolteachers. Mom was a schoolteacher, dad worked for a couple millionaires, became a caretaker for them [Inaudible 22:34].

	JH:	And was that here in Winter Park?



	RH:	Winter Park. That’s that large town just south of here. Just over the county line.



I’m in Seminole County by one block.



	JH:	That’s Orange County. RH:	This is Seminole County.

	JH:	No, I’m saying Winter Park is in Orange County.





	RH:	Orange County, right. And I came up here because the taxes were cheaper. But now they’re catching up since they built Disney World. [Laughter]

	S:	And you said that was a swamp by your elementary school?



	RH:	Yeah. There’s a big library in that area now. And a big parking lot. So you’d never know. But that used to be a swamp. And we had shortcuts—you know how kids shortcut to school? And there was a log that cut across, ran across there. And we cut across there one morning and there was a moccasin sitting on top of this log. [Laughter] We went running down the other way. [Laughter]

	S:	Right, right.



	D:	So you guys didn’t play in the swamp?



	RH:	No. [Laughter] Well see the palmetto was right near the swamp, so we’d go to cut palmettos for Ms. [Inaudible 23:42] when she gave us the specifications, you know. [Laughter]

	D:	So moving out of the grade school, one through eight, when did you make the decision that you wanted to go into the military?

	RH:	I didn’t make a decision, the government made that decision. [Laughter]



	D:	The government made that decision. Did you ever want—And so you go into the draft—What year was this, cause the war...I remember you said you were there in 1950?

	RH:	Oh that was in later years. That was in ’41. D:	You finished high school in 1941?

	RH:	Yup, then went to Xavier. Then got orders for active duty in ’43. D:	Okay, so you went to Xavier after you graduated?





	RH:	Yeah, I went to Xavier when I finished Hungerford. I was fortunate enough to get a scholarship—I was lucky enough to get a four-year scholarship up at Xavier. I wanted to go to Florida A&M. I wasn’t quite good enough for them.

	JH:	Oh, did you play any sports?



	RH:	That’s how I got to Xavier. [Inaudible 24:51] was the other way. D:	What sport did you play?

	RH:	I played football. At Hungerford I played basketball and football. And baseball, and—

	JH:	You must be really good.



	RH:	Well that’s why I got—that’s what’s wrong with my legs now. [Inaudible 25:14] too many times.

	D:	You played running back?



	RH:	Yup. I still got the scars to show.



	M:	I was wondering if there’s more you could say about Hungerford? What was it like moving from—because you said you boarded there, right?

	RH:	Yes, it was a boarding school. M:	So where were you staying?

	RH:	I got a book of the pictures—yeah, in that book there—the pictures are in that book. This is a book one of my smart brothers wrote. [Laughter] Let’s see.

	D:	Oh yeah, Hungerford there. He really spent a lot of time on this book, didn’t he?



	RH:	See this is just one that he wrote. Every time he talks to me I say, “How’s your book coming?” He says [Inaudible 26:11]. Let’s see—all the pictures together [inaudible 26:20]. [Camera shutter snapping]





D:   Is that the Hungerford School?



RH: Yup—all the pictures together [inaudible 26:38]. [paper shuffling] D:  That’s your family?

RH:  Yeah. That’s our football team, and basketball team. And here are some of the buildings. There’s the boys dormitory. My room was upstairs. [Inaudible 27:12] They locked the buildings at nights [inaudible 27:17].

D:   So you stayed here?



	RH:	Yeah. That was a door. I figured it goes out the building, probably got out—broke out of that building, got out of building. [Laughter]

	D:	For the record, we’re looking at the home economics building of Hungerford Vocational High School, Eatonville, Florida. And you stayed in Cluett Hall?

RH:  No. Yeah.



	JH:	So, the boarding school, did your parents have to pay for you to go to Hungerford or—?

	RH:	They had made a deal or something. If he paid ten dollars a month and I had a job during the school year and spent the summers when school was out, I’d get by—I’d declare a full load each year. If he had not, I was going to take two [inaudible 28:12] one year and a full load the next year. Two the next year. I could graduate at age twenty-seven, probably. [Laughter] And I know some guy who was twenty-seven when he finished high school. In fact, a guy by the name of Sanders, James Sanders, he’s from Apopka, he was twenty-seven when he graduated?

	D:	High school?





	RH:	Yeah. And he went on to South Carolina State and he graduated. He was trying to make it like that. But I thought it was kind of rough, how they were [inaudible 28:48] work in the summertime. But Dad had made that deal. That’s what they did. Now [inaudible 28:59] much earlier time. Because, you see, I had one roommate who was from Detroit, Michigan. And so school was out one year and he’s getting ready to go home for summers. And he said, “Richard, I know you’re going home [inaudible 29:10].” [Laughter] I says, “No, I’m not as fortunate as your parents are. Your parents they send you down all the way from Detroit, Michigan. You go home for summer.” But, see, his parents paying a full load. I don’t know how much a month they paying.

	S:	Where did you work in the summers?



RH:  Well they had a farm out there at Hungerford. And it raised quite a bit of the food they ate. Beans and peas et cetera. You had chickens and pigs and cows and a mule. A mule name Minnie. [Laughter]

	JH:	What did you think of Eatonville when you would go and you would be living in Eatonville? What did you think of it when you were there?

	RH:	Well, I saw it every Sunday. Cause you had a choice: you could go to church or go to work. So, naturally, I went to church. [Laughter] So every Sunday I spent at Eatonville in church.

	JH:	What did you think about Eatonville when you were there? Did it seem like a nice place or—?

	RH:	Well, in comparison, it was just another town, you know? At that time I’m what, fourteen years old? I know they had a mayor and—what was his name? Croons.





And when they had his council meetings, it was under one of them oak trees there on the main drag. They had no building. And I think the police had a stick or something? [Laughter]

	JH:	No guns, just a stick? [Laughter]



	RH:	That’s what I understand. I don’t know. Being a kid, you hear certain things. S:	When you were in school, you said you had the one roommate who was from

Detroit. Did you have other peers who were from different states?



	RH:	Oh, yeah. One of my classmates was from New York City—two. From New York City. Junior Cook, he’s from New York City. I’m trying to think who else. There was kids there from Alabama, Mississippi, Carolinas, Virginia. And quite a few from Florida. And I had one classmate from Mississippi.

	JH:	So Hungerford had a reputation, then? Did it have a reputation at Hungerford?



The school?



	RH:	Yeah. It was recognized, the school, yeah. It was a private school and it was financed by three millionaires, two of them from Winter Park and the other one was from DeLand. And all three signed my certificate and stuff. They were trustees.

	D:	Now, I’m just curious, the grocery store your father worked at—



	RH:	Yeah, he worked there temporarily. That was before—I don’t remember that.



	D:	Were there any black grocery stores? Besides—were there any all black grocery stores?

	RH:	I don’t think so. That was down on Church Street at that time.



	D:	It seemed like you guys dress really nice all the time. You always dressed nice.





	RH:	Oh, come on!



	D:	Look at you there in 1942! [Laughter] You’re pretty sharp looking. [Laughter] RH:	I had that tailor-made, see, at that time. [Laughter]

	S:	You look real nice! [Laughter]



	RH:	See, my senior year, they’d let you go off campus and work on Saturdays and so forth. And so I had a couple launderers cut and sew things. And I think I ordered a suit from—probably this tailor out of Chicago. No, probably Detroit. No, I’m sorry, probably it was up there in Chicago. And they made tailor-made suits. And my senior year I got eighteen [inaudible 33:52] my tailor-made suits. [Laughter]

	D:	I see your brother played with you as well. Who was better at football, you or your brother Clyde?

	RH:	I was the best. [Laughter] He was just better in books. I was [inaudible 34:11] when the [inaudible 34:13]. I think I got it signed with—the names are by each on the thing.

	D:	Yeah, it is. I saw some. I was listening to your story earlier when you were talking about the war and you said they were killing them like flies. You saw a lot of—

	RH:	Yeah, on the Chinese, when the bridge, when the river froze up between Manchuria and North Korea they could walk across it. The Chinese just, they could walk across it. And the 1st Marine Division, it was an outfit just came from the States. I’d never seen one like it before. It was equipped with long tanks [inaudible 34:59] Infantry and Air Force. And so they used our [inaudible 35:03] the K14. The first time I saw jet airplanes was at that time. [Inaudible 35:10]. And





I saw this jet airplane come in: “What’s keeping that thing up?” No propeller. Amazing.

	JH:	After being drafted, how’d you end up in the Air Force?



	RH:	Well, I went up to aircraft maintenance school. And that is, I came out of school where were they going to ship me to? They had to ship me to a Black outfit that had airplanes, which was Tuskegee.

	D:	Were there any experiences that stand out to you the most, something that you never forget?

	RH:	I have quite a few of those. [Laughter] [Inaudible 35:59] in Korea. I seen so many Marines get killed up there, yeah. And this is where our crack outfit, the 1st Marine Division, the only one that had fully equipped, ended going to a beachhead in [inaudible 36:16]. All airplanes, field artillery, infantry. All go in one outfit. And that’s the only one, I think, that was organized in this country, 1st Marine Division. And also had new equipment, too, when it first came from the States. Oh, an incident when I went off for Okinawa, they took our warm clothes away from me. Because we’re on Okinawa [inaudible 36:39]. And so they shipped us to Korea, and this is in September. It gets cold in Korea in September. And they were suntans and fatigues, no winter clothes. This outfit came over from the States and they would go right next to us because they would use our airstrip, too. And they had all this new equipment, these poppers. And they had a popper where you zipped your—pull the line out and zip it around your leg. They had a hood to cover your head, you know, tacked on to— all heavy, heavy material. And so I made a deal with the officer, the supply officer





	over in.	Because they had warehouses full of this stuff, this clothing. This



warehouse just come from the States. So I made a deal with the supply officer, I said, “You know what? I got an airplane that goes down to Japan every day. And I could have a case of whatever you drink on manifest.” And they said, “Sure, sure. [Inaudible 29:04] officers around. We’ll work something out.” Says, “This TV here came from Okinawa. We don’t have winter clothes and they’ve got their old fancy goggles and everything.” So I made the deal with him. And so after the first trip we made now to pick up some parts down in Japan. I called my [inaudible 38:25]: “I got the package for you.” He says, “Okay. Back your trucks up to our warehouses.” And I had a whole wing equipped with pockets and all these snow packs. So I had my whole squad looking like Marines. [Laughter] ‘Cause it was cold [inaudible 38:51]. We never got the heavy clothes from the Air Force. My outfit is looking just like Marines. Don’t think [inaudible 39:01]. I received a Congressional [Gold] Medal.

	JH:	So I guess the unit is not being integrated at that point? RH:	It was integrated at that point.

	JH:	They were integrated at that point?



	RH:	Yeah, see 1950 is when they integrated it. I’m sorry—in [19]49. In September [19]49 is when we integrated. And [inaudible 39:30] going to Okinawa.

	JH:	In 1949?



	RH:	In [19]49, yeah. And, see, war broke out in June of [19]50. And I’m sitting there waiting for my family to come. [Inaudible 39:42] waited six months for the house.

	JH:	So what was that like, then, that integration of the military?





	RH:	Well, it took a little time because other guys had a hard time. Now I talked a lot to [inaudible 39:56]. So happened I went to the [inaudible 39:58] and I think they were expecting us. They accepted us. They couldn’t understand why we all got promoted [inaudible 40:06] because nobody got promoted from the war up to [19]49. One guy got promoted during that time, and his name was Hall, incidentally. [Laughter] Lieutenant Hall. And what happened, he was a West Point graduate and that promotion came directly from the Pentagon to the outfit. Didn’t go through South Carolina, Ninth Air Force headquarters, that was where we were assigned to. He was the only one who was promoted during that time, that three year period between [19]46 and [19]49.

	D:	You know what I find interesting is that the military was integrated. When you got home did you experience any participation in the Civil Rights Movement?

	RH:	Oh yeah.



	D:	Did you involve yourself with that?



RH:  Well, we were sort of restricted. If you went [41:05] wear a uniform [inaudible 41:06]. I know some people who did, but it wasn’t encouraged. Because you followed military protocol [inaudible 41:18].

	JH:	So what was it like going to an integrated unit—fighting—and then going back home to where it was not integrated yet? What was that like when you came home and you saw things still weren’t integrated?

	RH:	Well, it never bothered me, I was just trying to survive [Laughter]. D:	Did you participate in any organizations? NAACP?

	RH:	Oh yeah. I’ve got a lifetime membership in NAACP.





	D:	When’d you join? Do you remember?



	RH:	[Laughter]. Somewhere back in the [19]40s. In fact, every year I send them a few dollars.

	D:	Were you shocked when you went home? You were at war fighting for the country and then you come home—

	RH:	Well, you have to sort of motivate your mind, in a sense, and don’t let a lot of stuff really bother you. Just do what you can. If you let too much of that get down into your mind, you can’t reason. You can’t think.

	D:	What occupation did you pick up when you came home?



	RH:	Well, I stayed in the service thirty years until [inaudible 42:50]. And then when I come of retirement a buddy of mine—he just passed last month, he was about three years older than I, Walter McCraig—and I was stationed [inaudible 43:07]. It was integrated at that time. I went back this third time. And he was working for the state of Ohio. And he called me one day, he says, “Hall, you’re coming up for retirement pretty soon aren’t you?” I said, “Yeah. In June.” He said, “What are you planning on doing?” I said, “I’m going to Florida, like everybody else does when they retire.” [Laughter] I’ve been trying to get to Florida for the last thirty years: they sent me everywhere except Florida. Everywhere where it’s cold. He says, “I’ll let you [inaudible 43:43] go down and sit down.” He said, “Come on down here and take the [inaudible 43:47] and go work for the state of Ohio.” And I’m all geared up and getting ready to come to Florida. So I call my parents and they say, “Well, if this is what you want to do, you go ahead.” And so I went down and took the exam. So I was hired by the state of Ohio and I became quality-





control chief. And I took my same operating instructions I had in the Air Force and rewrote the ones for the state. [Inaudible 44:16]. Same thing. Only thing— state of Ohio is dealing with all type of merchandise. In the Air Force we was dealing with aircraft parts and stuff like that. Have ‘em tested and go to labs and see what meets the standards and all. Same thing that I’d done in the Air Force, I did for the state of Ohio. And so they made me chief of the quality-control divisions.

	D:	How long did you work there?



	RH:	Well, let’s see. Twelve years, I think. The deal was you could work five years and buy five. And so I called the state of Florida first and I says, “Why don’t you have programs like this?” And they thought I was crazy. [Laughter] I said, “Well, Ohio has one.” “Well, no, we don’t have one like that.” And I called all the states to see if I could get somewhere south. Where it’s warm. [Laughter] And Ohio is the only one offering it. State of Ohio. The Buckeye State. And that was pretty nice. They gave me a car and a credit card. And they said, “Now, the car has to be parked in the garage. It can’t be parked on the street, you know, spending nights [inaudible 45:39].” So it meant it had to spend the night in the best hotels who had garages. And all I needed was my credit card, state card. Just show the card. At the end of each month I would make my report up. That was it. Best job I ever had. [Laughter]

	D:	Sounds like a great job.



	RH:	That’s right. And I just travelled all over the state of Ohio. Because they all used Ohio state contract. See we wrote the term contracts and the states would buy





off their contract. Now they could buy off—well, they kept changing them, I think. [Inaudible 46:17] I think they were paid two-hundred dollars a month. Off the contract. Unless you need something in an emergency or something like that. As long as you had a state contract. Now, my job [inaudible 46:33] if I got a complaint from anybody within the state where merchandise that they bought off that contract was substandard. All they do is just send me a sample and I’d run to the lab, get the report. Just shuffling papers. Got the report, notify the vendor [about] the substandard item. He’d pick up the whole shipment or reimburse the state or something like that. Very simple. So I did that for—let’s see, I retired— about ten years, I guess. That was my second retirement. [Laughter]

	D:	You said, like, you worked a long time?



	RH:	Well, that’s what [inaudible 47:29] told me, McCraig. “Oh, you go down there, you sit around and you’re gonna be dead in a few years.” Said, “Come on down and take this exam and keep on working.” I’m glad he did. I’m still here. At ninety- something.

	D:	That’s a blessing. S:	Yes.

	RH:	Yeah. And I still know who I am and where I am. If I lose one of those I got a problem. [Laughter]

	JH:	Can you talk a bit about your family. You know, your children and—



	RH:	I only had one daughter. I lost two boys at childbirth. And then my daughter just died last year. She was an RN. I have a picture up there on the mantelpiece. So she came down to see about me. And so she bought a house on the corner





down there. Come to find out, I ended up seeing about her. She had cancer. And her mom died of cancer. That whole family died of cancer, because my wife’s two old sisters died of cancer. And I heard this year that my wife’s oldest sister’s daughter has cancer. So it’s part of the family, I guess.

	D:	Any grandchildren?



	RH:	No. She wasn’t married.



	JH:	So I know you said after you were in the military you moved around the cold places, you said.

	RH:	Yeah, that’s right. Never anywhere south!



	JH:	What are some of the places you were stationed or moved to?



	RH:	Well this place called North Dakota. [Laughter] The Grand Forks. And Bangor, Maine. And Boston, Massachusetts. And Portland, Oregon. Everywhere’s cold! [Inaudible 49:34] Oh yeah, I spent a little time in Alaska. Just cold places.

	JH:	What was it like being in those places and being away from home?



	RH:	It’s cold! [Laughter] It’s cold. I kept saying, “I’m from Florida. I’m a Florida boy.” [Laughter] But still going. I still use my legs, my hands, and part of my brain.

	D:	And it’s warm. RH:	Right. [Laughter]

	D:	So is there anything you would like to share that we didn’t get a chance to cover?



Or is there something you would like to talk about?



	RH:	Well, I don’t know. But I talked as long as [inaudible 50:33]. [Laughter]



	JH:	If I could ask a bit about your time at Xavier. What was it like in New Orleans when you were there for school?





	RH:	Well, we had to wear a little lock around our neck, see. Some kind of saint. And we were told that Rampart Street was off limits. [Laughter] [Inaudible 51:04] Well, I got interviewed by a dean whose sister or mother, I think, is a nun.

	JH:	A nun?



	RH:	Yeah, Mother [inaudible 51:13]. You talking about most nuns, you see, is kind of mothering types. You talking about mean, sharp-wise. So when she asks you a question, let’s you knew the answer before you gave it to her. And she interviewed me—interviewed all the freshmen. And when I was interviewing she said, “Mr. Hall, we have awarded you a four year athletic scholarship. Now, at the end of each month you will receive a notice from the registrar that all your bills are paid. [Inaudible 51:51], room and board, and [inaudible 51:53]. And she says, “Now”—cleared up her throat [laughter]—“now there’s certain things we expect from you. And the first thing,” she said, “we expect for you to maintain a B- average in all of your subjects.” Then she paused—that included Catholic religion. [Laughter] “Oh lord!” [Laughter] I said, “How in the world?” And I say say “Another thing, too”—I had to pay back twenty-five dollars out-of-state fees because out-of-state students. Now the church is giving me, I think, about fifty dollars, something like that. I think I had about fifty or something. And I didn’t have enough! [Laughter] Couldn’t come back home. The church had sent me a waiver there of fifty dollars. And the only other family I had was in New Jersey. [Laughter] And I started saying, “Now, I can’t go back home. I ain’t got [inaudible 52:52] get them other folks up in New Jersey.” And so I met a little girl by the name of Catherine Brown. She sit right across from me. Now all her family’s





Catholic. All her sisters and brothers had finished Xavier. Her mom and dad was Catholic. And, see, she was [inaudible 53:14] in the Catholic religion. So she is having a problem with her math and so I got [inaudible 53:20] and said, “Catherine, tell you what, I can help you with this math. Now if you get me to this catechism.” [Laughter]

	JH:	And the teachers and nuns who were at Xavier, they were black women, right?



	RH:	No, they were all kinds of colors. All colors. ‘Cause it’s a—I don’t know any black nuns. All the nuns were white. There might have been—no, that’s right. Minnie’s family, she was a basketball coach but she was not a nun. I don’t know of any black nun—I don’t recall. You’d see some just come out of the school from the city. Various programs and other things.

	JH:	What was it like living in New Orleans? Did you enjoy living in New Orleans?



		RH:	Well, I spent my time on campus in the dormitory and the football field and the library. [Laughter] That’s where I spent most of my time, trying to understand Catholic religions. [Laughter] And Hail Mary [inaudible 54:32]. That was the roughest [inaudible 54:41]. And, you see, all I know about the priest—there used to be a Catholic church down in Winter Park, St. Catherine or something like that. It’s still there. I pass it one day and the door was open and I saw the priest up there with his back to all us, swinging the smokes up. The little altar boys was moving back and forth. And they got nuns all down on their knees. And the door was open. That’s how I passed it. That’s all I knew about Catholic religion. I had no idea—completely lost. But if it hadn’t been for Catherine Brown.	In fact,

she didn’t live too far from campus and every time I had an exam I had to offer to





take her to the movies. [Laughter] So we’re sitting in the swing on her porch and [inaudible 55:50]. We had an exam the next day [inaudible 56:00]. We sit there, sometimes it’d be eleven o’clock at night. And [inaudible 56:12] “Catherine, it kind of late. [Inaudible 56:15] in the morning. We’ll take the movie in the morning.” [Inaudible 56:20] make out on the steps. [Laugter] She was a nice person, though. We kept in touch through the years and she ended up marrying a Catholic boy. They [inaudible 56:34] and moved to New York.

	JH:	And Catherine Brown was from New Orleans? RH:	Yeah.

	JH:	People were from New Orleans?



	RH:	Yeah. She was born and raised right there up in New Orleans. She went to Xavier Prep, Xavier Prep School. That’s where she finished—and all her sisters and brothers ahead of her. And mom and dad was Catholic too.

	S:	In your brother’s book he talked about the Silas Green show. Do you remember that?

	RH:	Yeah.



	S:	Can you talk a little bit about what you recollect from seeing those vaudeville shows?

	RH:	It’s been so long. [Laughter] That was something I looked forward to every year.



Silas Green. And see they camped out there not too far from where we lived. That was open area at that time. And they had a big tent and all. That whole area’s got housing in it now, but see it used to be open field. [Inaudible 57:27].





Like I said, we lived in the country. [Inaudible 57:32] in the country. Cow, chickens, and eggs.

	S:	Did you celebrate Juneteenth or Emancipation Day when you were growing up? RH:	Yeah.

	S:	You did?



	RH:	Yeah.



	S:	What would you all do to commemorate them?



	RH:	Nothing unusual, I don’t recall. But they always celebrated.



	S:	Would you all have food? Would you do a program or just kind of— RH:	Me and mom would probably have something with the church.

	S:	It was based in the church, whatever you did? RH:	Yeah.

	D:	Have there been any class reunions that you’ve been a part of? Or any kind of reunions since Xavier or even your high school?

	RH:	All the people that—my generation are dead. [Laughter] I was one of the younger ones, see, [inaudible 58:28]. Like Clyde, my brother, now we talk every day. And he’s always asking me about people we grew up with in Winter Park, since I lived in Winter Park in this area. And everybody he asks me about I say, “They dead. Ain’t nobody left from our generation but us.” ‘Cause I’m ninety-two and he’ll be ninety—that’s right, he’s got a birthday February 1.

	D:	His birthday’s coming up?



	RH:	Yeah. It’s only about three boys that are still living. Our generation. And they in nursing homes. Everybody else is gone. We talk about every day. Last night he





called me and we talked about a reunion—a family reunion. He said, “If we go, we gonna be the only people there from our generation.” [Laughter]

	M:	You mentioned that your mother was a teacher. Where did she teach?



	RH:	She taught grade school in Morgan, Georgia. Also taught in Quitman, Georgia. Morgan. [Inaudible 59:32] ‘Cause when I came along, I caught the end of her teaching days. Like my brother says, I should be a lot smarter than I am. [Laughter] Says she was pregnant with me when she was in the classroom. [Laughter]

	M:	And so your father worked with some millionaires locally. You said they were named the Dickenson’s I believe?

	RH:	Yeah, Dixon Brothers. They were millionaires and they had a lot of orange groves and property and that sort of thing. And, see, they would come down in the summer—I mean the wintertime, when it’s cold up north—because one had a peanut factory in Chicago and the other one was a civil engineer, he was a retired civil engineer. And then behind his house he had a building and he had little bridges where he showed us how to use them. How he snaked logs out of the river and built bridges and all that sort of stuff. A moat. So he showed us how to use it. He’s retired. A civil engineer. Millionaire, made lots of money. But he lived very good. Very good. [Inaudible 01:01:14] In fact one gave Dad a car, a Rollins car. Do you ever hear of a Rollins car? Well, it was built by Cadillac. And they only built that car one year. Just one year. And we’ve got pictures of it here some place. It might be in that book. It might be in the book somewhere. But they only built the one year, so naturally you couldn’t get parts for it. And so he gave it





to my dad. I said Clyde copied a picture of that car. Dad kept it for several years then gave it to one of the nephews.

	M:	Where did he drive with it? Did he just drive locally or did he—



	RH:	Well, we went back and forth to Georgia. All went to Georgia every year. [Inaudible 1:02:24]. [Talking about scrapbook] Had ‘em built by Cadillac. Just for one year. So next year—after the first year—they started getting in trouble, and what Dad had to do [was] have parts made for this thing. [Laughter] Most people never heard of that car before, a Rollins.

	M:	I hadn’t.



	JH:	What did you do for fun? What did you do once you kind of came back down to— ‘cause when did you come back down to Winter Park? After your retirement?

	RH:	Yeah, after I retired from the state of Ohio. JH:	And what year was that?

	RH:	Let’s see, [19]84. I retired in [19]84. I come out of the Air Force in [19]73. I came here in [19]84.

	JH:	And you came back and kind of reestablished ties with the family you had here? RH:	Yeah, well, what was left. [Laughter] Mom and Dad was still living [inaudible

1:03:53]. Let’s see, my brother lived in Savannah. My baby brother, he taught school in New Jersey. Newark, New Jersey. Now, that guy was something. He’s a special education teacher, and he was one of the first ones to get a master’s degree in special education. One of the first ones. At the University of Indiana. And he found this out, that he’s the only one [inaudible 1:04:25]. And every time he’d call me he was teaching at a different school. [Laughter] The one that paid





the most money. You see, at that time you could do that. Now you have to sign a contract for a year. And he wouldn’t sign a contract for three months or four months. And when I was stationed there in Long Island, New York. We used to get together sometimes. And he was teaching in Newark at the time. And I called and said, “Well, let’s get together this weekend.” And I’d go over to [inaudible 1:04:55] upstairs on the second floor. I’d get there a little early. And when the bell rang, he’d beat the kids downstairs. [Laughter] Didn’t you wait and see if any of these kids or anybody are hurting themselves? [Laughter] He says, “Man, they [inaudible 1:05:15] all the time.” Now he wasn’t a dedicated teacher, okay. [Laughter] My brother, now. He wasn’t [inaudible 1:05:24], no way. And every time I walked in the [inaudible 1:05:28] you’d see him, at that time of special education teacher had to have a telephone in his office, on the desk. In case something happened. Every time I walked in his office he’s own his telephone, calling these other districts to see how much they’re paying. [Laughter] That guy was something. Talk about dedication. You know, most teachers are dedicated- types. My brother wasn’t. Not that one. [Laughter] He musta taught school in about five different places within a four or five year period. Because every time I’d call—you know, I’d call where I thought he was the last time—“Oh, no, he’s no longer here.” [Laughter] Yup. That’s his picture on the end up there. On that end. [Talking about objects on shelf]

	D:	We’re gonna wrap it up.



	RH:	I’ve got a few things I’d like to show you now. D:	So we’re gonna end it.





[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Ryan Thompson, February 9, 2018 Audit-edit by:	Chris Calton, October 3, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 26, 2019