AAHP 076; Pollard; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 076 Stephanie Pollard African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Scott McPherson on September 5, 2009 28 minutes | 13 pages



Abstract: In this interview, University of Florida (UF) alumna Stephanie Pollard details her love for education as well as her experiences as an outspoken woman during her academic years. She goes in depth about the stereotypes she felt she had to combat about the role of women in and out of the home. Furthermore, Ms. Pollard highlights the importance of diversity within the school to aid in moving away from this mindset. She also outlines what she would change about the UF Public Health program if she were president of the school. Lastly, she explains her concern for the existing Black culture in Gainesville due to gentrification, a lack of inclusivity within the community, and limited minority programs within the university.





Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida; Women’s Rights]















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 076

Interviewee: Stephanie Pollard Interviewer: Scott McPherson Date: September 5, 2009



	M:	I’m here with Stephanie Pollard on, let’s see it’s the 5th of September 2009 for Black Alumni Weekend. So Stephanie, tell me a little bit first of all about your upbringing, your educational life before you came to UF.

	P:	Okay, well I’m from Jacksonville. I come from a family college graduates. I have my mom’s sister, that’s a social worker and she attended Edward Waters College in Jacksonville. I have a cousin that’s a physician and he also attended UF as a PA student and then went off to do his residency and he’s a physician. So college was part of my family and I actually went to college in Jacksonville for a lab technologist when I first graduated from high school. I moved here in Gainesville in [19]90 and my intentions was to continue my education but I had a daughter and so I needed to work and it didn’t quite pan out for me to go UF at that time. So in 2000 when my daughter graduated from high school I went on to get a second degree and that’s when I got accepted at UF in the College of Health Professionals for the Bachelors of Health Science rehab counseling and continued on to get my master’s in public health.

	M:	What about your educational experience in high school, was it good, bad?



	P:	For me it was good because I’ve always loved education. My mom and dad they always pushed education and even my grandmother, even though she only had a seventh grade education, she always pushed her grandchildren to get a good education. And so that was always a press for me and I was always good at school. And so in high school, I made good grades and I was really heavy in math and science, so the laboratory technology program at the community





college was a program that my guidance counselor helped pick out for me that was a match.

	M:	What made you want to come to UF rather than say a historically Black college or university?

	P:	Well one I was already living here in Gainesville, two I knew that the University of Florida was a good school, education, I did not know like all the, you know, the ins and outs of experiences people had, but I knew that you could get a good education here and that when you graduated you had a good education and opportunities.

	M:	Okay, did you feel prepared by high school for the challenges you faced at UF?



	P:	Because I came at UF as a second degree, I think I was somewhat prepared because I had gone to the community college; had been working and so I had some experience. But it was different in the sense of the expectations of you as a student and the- how to say, homework assignments and projects and stuff like that. Now one of the experiences that I hadn’t had before I came to UF was to do group projects. Group projects was an experience for me here at UF that I had to adjust to because not everybody wanted to do their part, and pull their weight and I came from an environment where everybody has to do their share.

	M:	What about, you said the expectations were different, what do you mean by that?



	P:	I would say coming from a community college and then actually I did matriculate through our community college here to get prepared to go to UF.

	M:	Doing Santa Fe?





	P:	Doing Santa Fe, uh-huh. And so Santa Fe, they get you prepped, you know to come to UF but when you get there it comes up a level of what your assignments and expectations are. What kind of work you’re going to put, the quality of the work that you’re going to put out. I wasn’t a public speaking kind of person and because both in health science and rehab counseling and especially in the public health program you have to do a lot of speaking. And so that was one of the things that I would say was the most “bringing me out of my comfort zone” was that I had to do those group projects and each person had to speak. And most classes you have to do that at some point in time.

	M:	What else did you find that was frustrating about the program?



	P:	One of the things that was frustrating was about the program was that I had an academic advisor and then I also had the person that was over the program and they put me in the situation where I had to, my grades had to be monitored every semester for the first three semesters. They give it a name, it’s not academic probation, but it’s like they monitor to make sure your grades are staying up to what they should be. And this to me I thought that was a negative thing, because “Well I got in here you know keep micromanaging my grades like that.” But it worked out where at the end of the three semesters they said “Well you’re okay you can fly on your own,” I had built up a relationship with the counselor that was doing the grades every month, or every semester and so I felt like I needed to stay in contact with her, and it worked out because when it was time for me to graduate the actual program advisor, he was off like three credits, I think it was three or four credits that he didn’t have on his information and that was frustrating





in the sense that they didn’t believe me at first about, you know I said “Well, I said I’ve been going to this lady every semester and you’re missing something on my transcript.” But between the person that was actually doing the audit on the transcript and the academic advisor, she was able to show him that all credits were accounted for and that I was fine to graduate and so I believe that was my most frustrating time because at this point it’s time for graduation, finals at the end, it’s already a stressful time anyway and I felt like that was something that shouldn’t have happened. Because my depending upon my academic advisor is to be on point along with the transcript audit person and I was concerned with that doing out of trying to keep me another semester. I wasn’t never did get a clear answer on why the mix-up. And then sometimes in some of the classes because I’m a very outspoken person and I believe all opinions should be voiced and listened to. Sometimes the instructors didn’t always want to hear my opinion because they were like “Oh here she come again,” because sometimes some topics in class especially one particular class we had on women and it talked about women’s roles from the [19]30s, [19]40s, [19]50s and [19]60s. And how our role had evolved and some of the students in there even though that’s in 2000 they still had some of those old thoughts of how women’s role is in society now, because not everybody goes off to college, gets married, has a family and do their career. You know there are variations to that. And it doesn’t really have to do whether you have a child or not have a child, some women just choose to go to college, get a job, stay in their career, and do a variety of things, travel and then maybe later on think about having a family, and I was surprised that I think





about half of the young ladies that was in my class and there were probably about fifty or so of us in there that they still had some of the old thoughts and some of the old roles of what they felt the role of a woman was.

	M:	Like what? Can you elaborate on what they think the proper role of a woman should be?

	P:	To go to college and prepare yourself to be married. And you know right or wrong I’m like “Well, how do you prepare yourself to be married?” I don’t see. And they were looking at kind of you know you meet someone you want to see if there’s going to be a potential husband or basically having your mind set for marriage.

And I said “That’s closing your mind off to seeing what options that you have when you graduate.” If while you’re in college your whole mindset is when “I graduate, I want to get married” then you shut off other options because sometimes that might not happen. And so what I just put out on the table it’s fine if you want to be married after you go to college but also realize you need other options. Because you may not meet a husband.

	M:	Well how would you change that? What would you change in that regard about the department? Or the program?

	P:	Well, I would say I would have more diverse—well for one, the book we used, and I can’t think of the book, but the book we used, it had a lot of stereotyping in there to statistics on how children behave if they come from a single parent home, how divorce really detriments both the female and the male and although some of those statistics are out there, I’m not always sure that when they are presented they are presented in a positive way. Because what I see is if they say





“Okay, 70 percent of children that come from a single parent home are more likely to not succeed and not to go to college okay what about the 30 percent?” And that’s one of the things that I would like to see change is to have textbooks that “Yes, we can talk about the 70 percent but what about the 30 percent?”

	M:	Okay, do you think this in on the part of their professors or is it the program?



	P:	I think the program curriculum because the program chair department, they’re the one to pick out which books you’re going to be used and then it’s up to the professor as to how that’s delivered because they have the autonomy to be able to deliver the information the way they see fit.

	M:	What other kind of, you’ve spoken a bit about the educational challenges, what other kind of social challenges, you’ve spoken a little bit about the people in the class are harbor one particular kind of attitude. What other kind of social challenges did you experience in the program?

	P:	The social challenges was sometimes I felt like I was looked at as not being quite as good as some of the other students. It was never verbalized and I had one particular professor that in the master’s program, her background was in policies and procedures through the health department and so when I shared with her in the public health program you could take policies and procedures, you could take community health, or you can take epidemiology. I chose my track, community health. Now when the program first starts everybody takes policy classes, everybody has a few community classes, everybody has a few epidemiology classes. Then your last three or four classes is focused on whatever your track is. And so when I shared with her that my track was community health, she said





“Well you will be a health department associate or coordinator.” And I said, “Well I had the vision of being a director over a health department” and she was like, “Well, I don’t know.” And I felt like she never, my work was never graded in the way I felt like it should have been graded because this was my initial interaction with her and I felt that set the tone. She would always bounce me off C, B, C, B and one particular time both me and another student, we both studied like the same way and then after the end we had an essay and he showed me his essay and he got a A and I got a B and I basically kind of compared notes and stuff and we didn’t put it in exactly the same way but we hit the same points. And so when I brought that to her attention you know she just said she didn’t like the way I formatted it. And I said “Well we hit the same points, and the same points are brought out and you gave him an A and you gave me a B, and you know that’s not fair.” And that was my challenge that when a professor has that kind of interaction with you in the beginning, it’s hard to ride out of that because they’ve already set the tone for their opinion about you and I don’t like that. Don’t make an opinion about my future and about me as a person without knowing me.

	M:	How did you interact with the other students, I mean were you older than other students or younger than other students, or were you all about the same age when you came in?

	P:	Well, in the graduate program I was basically around the same age, in the bachelor’s program undergrad I was mostly older.

	M:	How did that affect you in any way?





	P:	Well, not really because one most students thought I was about the same age as they were, because I don’t look as old as I am. And two, I have a very youthful attitude, I like to you know go to some of the social things that they have. I can conversate with them and when it came down to projects or homework you know everybody’s on the same level so that kind of also set the pace too because when you start working on these projects, you have to have time, you know, maybe once or twice a week that you’re going to be meeting and stuff like that.

So you build a friendship, so it’s not just classroom and then trying to socialize. It’s classroom, group projects and then from there you build that friendship so you do have lunch together or dinner together or hang out or go to the movies or sometimes like that. So, that made it a easier transition for me and because of my attitude and personality that was not a problem and actually some or one of my best friends that moved to Jacksonville she and I, we were in undergrad together and we are ten years apart in age. She and I we kept in contact since we both graduated in 2002, so.

	M:	Makes things a lot easier doesn’t it?



P:  Yeah, yeah, it does and we have good conversations and now seven years later our conversation, my conversation with her is no different than conversation with someone that is my age.

	M:	So if you had the ear of the president of the university, what would you tell, or if you were the president, let’s put it this way, what would change about UF and the public health program, what would you do differently?





	P:	Well, one with the public health program, one is my pet peeve that was in there. We have to take statistics and it’s called “bio statistics.” I would have at least two or three of those professors that are from the public health entity. Because we have professors that were strictly statisticians, so their whole career was in math. But when you do human statistics and you know bring it into a group of people who aren’t from a math background, that kinda is off a little bit, because when you got a person that’s just solely doing math, math, math, you know their mindset is one way. When you have someone that’s coming into the public health part of it, our mindset is in a different way and you need someone that comes from public health and math to mesh that together. Because the statistician is like, “Okay, I gave this assignment, how come you all don’t understand what you’re supposed to do?” And some of the questions, and we had even some physicians that were in there that you know they weren’t math- math persons and so they had questions too and the professor he was just like “This is basic.” To him it was basic and so we need someone that would come from background of public health and statistics to make a good match for the students. And the other thing I would make as the president, I would look at programs that help minorities and make sure we don’t get into the commercialism of the school. Commercialism in the sense where city development, that’s great, every city has to make good development but where, you have to make a balance between development and harvesting cultural, and being open to making sure that we keep some things steady for students.

	M:	Such as what? Can you elaborate on that a little bit?





	P:	Well, I know one of the things we have in the city that’s changing is our hospital, Alachua General Hospital. And while our African Americans here in Gainesville, Florida, that’s been their place that they have always gone, they’ve had longtime care there. One of the things I see so much around the hospital and a lot of times people don’t pay attention to it, is we got development of apartment complexes. I see that same development coming down University Avenue, so I’m concerned with like the Institute of Black culture. Where is that going to fit? And although we are building the city up and we want apartments and we want restaurants and we want things that are going to generate revenue to the city, there are some things that you just need to keep, regardless of your looking at how much money is bringing in revenue, some things just need to be kept historically.

	M:	Okay, let me just ask you a little bit, you spoke of just a second ago about the Institute of Black Culture, do you think that the university has done enough to incorporate these kinds of minority programs into the broader kind of university community?

	P:	I don’t think so.



	M:	Okay, how would change that?



	P:	I would like on, let me see how to say that, because of my job and things I’ve been out in the community. I go to events that have like mostly Whites and a mixed crowd and often times when I go to things that are mostly White, I don’t see that bringing up things about minorities or programs that we have. And I think that to make people aware of it, you have to bring it to their attention. And that’s one of the things that I would like to see a more balance of is that some of the





community things that they have some of the community banquets that they have to talk about the IBC, to talk about the Old Aces program, IMOJA, those kinds of programs that support African American students and minority students because those students need that support. Because coming to college isn’t just doing school work, you have to have that social support. That is a must and being successful in doing well academically, you got to have social support. So I would like to see them bring that up and I would like to see us have more things where it is a mixed crowd, I would like to see that. And not being the sense of, how to say this, they are doing us a favor. Let it be where it is.

	M:	Can you clarify, who is “they?”



	P:	Well, let’s see, I was saying the more influential and more successful persons here in Alachua County, a lot of times they tend to congregate around themselves and when minorities are invited to something that they are doing, I sometimes feel it’s out of, “We should include…” I don’t know the word to use, I guess out of obligation, opposed to it’s kind of like if somebody comes to your home and you, I invite you to my home because I want you to come there we’re going to have dinner. Okay it’s another thing for me to say, “Well, you know, I feel sorry for him, he didn’t have any food to eat so out of obligation I’m going to invite you over.” I want to be invited because you enjoy my company, you want to hear what I have to say, and you just want me to be around. And not do it out of obligation. And because you are interested in what I have to say and what I am bringing to the table.

	M:	When did you first come to Gainesville again?





	P:	I came to Gainesville in 1990.



	M:	Have you seen a change in kind of the inclusiveness of minorities between 1990 and now in 2009?

	P:	In some ways, in some ways I have seen more inclusiveness. M:	How so?

	P:	Well, I would say some of the programs or community things or initiatives, that some of the minorities have, I’ve seen those like the Martin Luther King Program, I don’t know if you say “program,’ or “initiative” or we also had a banquet and stuff. I seen that be broad now and I seen that you know all races participate in that and basically push that cause, and things like that I have seen a more coming together and looking at the whole picture and also taking on the sense that when one group of people are put down, it’s really a disadvantage to all people because everybody is going to be affected by it in some way or another. But in some areas I still feel like the inclusiveness is out of obligation or even just feeling sorry for the people and I don’t think sometimes people realize that when you have that attitude of “I feel sorry for them or this is part of my community activity,” especially if there is any kind of political office or something like that, that’s just part of your job that you have to do attend certain events. And so sometimes that’s what I feel either that it’s either part of the person’s job, or out of obligation or just plain feeling sorry.

	M:	Is there anything else that we haven’t talked about that you would like to bring up?





	P:	I would have to say; overall my experience at UF was a good experience. It really pushed me to be persevering, it pushed me to take opportunities and it pushed me to get out of my comfort zone. And those were three things that I needed and wanted and I got an excellent academic education.

	M:	Okay. Well great! Stephanie, thank you so much for your time. We really appreciate it.

	P:	You’re welcome.





[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Richard Brust, September 30, 2015 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, August 22, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 18, 2019