AAHP 714; Massey-Harpoole; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 714 Deloris Massey-Harpoole

Interviewed by Abby Lovett and Aanchel Shah on August 4, 2019 54 minutes | 24 pages



Abstract: In this interview, students Abby Lovett and Aanchel Shah meet with Bethel Baptist Church member Deloris Massey-Harpoole to discuss the historically Black Allen subdivision in Tallahassee, Florida. Harpoole, a lifelong resident of Tallahassee, explains that she has become involved in a project to document the history of the Allen Subdivision, which had been neglected in official city documents. Harpoole is a proud graduate of Florida A&M University, which she posits gave her the leadership skills and education to become a statewide leader in Florida. In her professional life, Harpoole served as the state policy director for educational opportunity programs and the statewide director of the college outreach program with the Department of Education.

Her duty was to lead a team of equal opportunity officers working in twenty-eight community colleges throughout the state of Florida. She also worked alongside professors at FAMU to create a robust system of community colleges in South Africa following the US model. Harpoole began her effort to preserve the history of the Allen Subdivision in Tallahassee after the city announced a redevelopment plan for the area in 2014. Her initial effort to halt the development was stifled by a lack of documentation demonstrating the historic importance of the community, so Harpoole set out to create the appropriate documentation by organizing meetings of former residents to collect data and oral histories on the neighborhood. Harpoole remembers that the Allen community—wedged between Florida A&M University and downtown Tallahassee— was a hub for civil rights organizers who held meetings and marches within the community. Though she was a young girl at the time, Harpoole remembers both admiring the efforts of civil rights activists and fearing for their safety, reflecting that they inspired her lifelong passion for social equity.





Keywords: [Tallahassee, Florida, education, community college, South Africa, Florida A&M University, Bethel Baptist Church, Department of Education]



AAHP 714

Interviewee: Deloris Massey-Harpoole Interviewer: Abby Lovett, Aanchel Shah Date: August 4, 2019



	L:	Hello my name is Abby Lovett with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program.



	Today is August 4th, 2019 and I’m interviewing- H:	Deloris Mils Massey Harpoole

	L:	At Bethel Baptist Church in Tallahassee and could you spell you’re name for the record for us?

	H:	First name is D-E-L-O-R-I-S. Maiden name Mils, M-I-L-S. Last name Massey- Harpoole.

	L:	Alright awesome. So you were saying that you’ve been doing research on the Allen community where you grew up?

	H:	Yes this is the community in Tallahassee that is called Allen subdivision. Has been for over eighty-five years now.

	S:	I just want to take the chance to introduce myself as well H:	Sure.

	S:	My name is Aanchel Shah, also with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. H:	Pleased to meet you both.

	L:	Thank you. Okay so the Allen subdivision and you said that wasn’t- it wasn’t referred in public records right? That you couldn’t find any information?

	H:	Right because that really is not the official title for the area that I grew up in. It’s only through my research about the area and my having provided street names to the city records department that I was able to find out that the neighborhood that has been called by its residents for over eighty-five years as Allen subdivision is not just one subdivision. The area that we lived in was comprised





of five separately owned subdivision plus one parcel that was called a meets and bounds parcel which was never classified as a real- full subdivision.

	L:	And you said you grew up there- H:	Yes.

	L:	Have you lived in Tallahassee your whole life? H:	Not all my life. I was away for ten years.

	L:	Where were you?



	H:	And I was born- I’m sorry where was I? Okay when I left here I moved away after college graduation to live in Ellettsville, Indiana where my husband was employed as an accountant with the Alcort company and from there we moved to New Jersey which is where he was from. So it was a total ten years that I was away and I’ve been back in Tallahassee since 1984.

	S:	So what is it that you do in Tallahassee? Just a little bit about yourself and your career?

	H:	I’ve been retired now for eight years. At the height of my career I was the state policy director for educational opportunity programs and state wide director of the college reach out program with the department of education. But basically the educational opportunity program was through the state board of community colleges where I was employed.

	S:	And what did that handle? What was the work entail?



	H:	The function that I carried out? Well as a state policy director I was responsible for providing leadership to the equal access, equal opportunity officers throughout the twenty-eight community colleges. Now today I believe each of





those has now converted into four year colleges but at the time as policy director of educational opportunity programs I was responsible for insuring equal access, equal opportunity so far as enrollments and graduations. Degree attainment for all students, particularly those students that were underrepresented. That would be your ethnic minorities, women in certain areas for example women in athletics. For persons with disabilities, all persons who are basically underrepresented whether it was among students enrolled in the community colleges or among faculty and staff.

	L:	Did you witness a lot fo discrimination working in that area like is that something that-

	H:	I can’t name it discrimination. What I observed and was responsible for researching and reporting was underrepresentation. For example, in AA degree programs that lead to a four year university degree, we found that African- Americans and Hispanics were underrepresented and of course form the state it was our job to provide this information to all the colleges and let them know or let them really my role to let the state board know how we stood in terms of representation for students in AA degree programs or in terms of males. African- American males enrolled period in community colleges. Or women as college presidents or vice presidents, that’s very top level because generally persons who are underrepresented we found throughout the lower levels of employment. So I was dealing with underrepresentation of students as well as employees of various backgrounds. So I would provide information and make a recommendation to the state board of community colleges for policies that they





would develop so that we can encourage the colleges to make greater achievements, make greater strides in making sure that we were moving toward equal representation and equal opportunity for students and employees. And that also entailed writing legislation for programs that we might’ve needed funding- funded, writing budgets for the colleges to better serve students with disabilities, sometimes presenting to the legislature, organizing conferences for all of these officers that are responsible to lead, identifying those colleges that had exemplary practices. They were showing great growth in their minority employment or great growth in their enrollment of African-American males.

Whatever our issues were I was responsible to identify those colleges with exemplary practices and to share that information out to all the colleges and on top- from time to time I was responsible for presenting to the presidents what we saw across the state and what- the colleges that we had identified as those that they all might want to look to for examples of how they’re doing, how they’re achieving.

	S:	For this position where did you get your training of certification or degree? Any of that sort.

	H:	Boldly, from the very beginning Florida A&M University and I always tell this story. When I grew in the neighborhood that we will be talking about I honestly used to look from just below downtown area upwards to the state offices where we have all these fight buildings. I used to say to myself that’s where white folks work. Little did I know that Florida A&M University would prepare me with the kind of confidence in myself to make me feel worthy, to educate me, to refine me,





train me to be a person who would’ve led an entire state program hiring the white people I used to talk about as a children. Never would I have- had it not been for Florida A&M University and right here near my community just right up the hill from where I grew up I would never be where I am and I also attribute to Florida A&M University my preparation to be a leader in general and I say that giving the specific example of my having grown from this little poor girl from a family of seven. Growing up in the humble Allen subdivision to at the height of my career becoming a statewide leader in the state of Florida and then having been selected as a number of a team of consultants to travel to the republic of South Africa to lead and guide them on how to put together an American styled community college system that would help provide access and opportunity for people all over the republic of South Africa. That little humble girl from that little humble community was able through my training at Florida A&M University to become an international leader.

	L:	Wow that’s powerful.



	H:	It’s a blessing, a really really true blessing.



	L:	So South Africa that’s incredible and I can’t believe that hasn’t come up yet, tell us about it?

	H:	About South Africa? Well actually the project that carried us there or got us there was one under which Dr.- one of the ex-presidents of Florida A&M University, Dr. Walter Smith was granted funding in order to do a feasibility study. What the United States agency for International Development wanted to look into through the study is how feasible is it for the republic of South Africa to have an American





styled community college system where by training is needed throughout that country. Now like in Florida what they admired, I believe is that in the state of Florida there is a- was at the time a community college now a state college located within thirty miles of where everybody in the state of Florida lives. So in South Africa of course with the need for training all over they were interested in this American styled college system because so- I mean the masses of people in South Africa were not educated. At least not beyond, I should say not beyond the high school level and they were interested in greater training in vocations as well as post-secondary greater- increased post-secondary education for certainly those people who were underrepresented in South Africa.

	S:	I just wanted to circle back to the research you were talking about at the beginning, so how- why did you- how did you get interested? How did you start this research? Why?

	H:	Okay well must have been in 2014 when a group of people who grew up in the let’s call it the area called Allen subdivision had begun to meet discussing their- the information that they have received about the fact that the Tallahassee Leon County blueprint 2000 plan had envisioned their cutting or I should say they’re doing some redevelopment in the neighborhood that I grew up in. Officers from that project met with some of the people from the- form Allen and they indicated- and of course the folks who met with project officials indicated that hey some important things took place in this neighborhood if you gonna bring- you’re gonna change this roadway through here and you’re gonna bring a highway through here we’re concerned that our history be preserved. Well the officer indicated





that well do you have any narrative. We didn’t have anything. There was nothing written about this neighborhood that has such a rich, beautiful background. So the president of the group that had been meeting who- some previous residents of the area asked if I would take on the project of writing up something and of course I accepted the challenge because I too wanted to see something documented about our neighborhood and I indicated to him I will not do it without actual written documented acknowledgements from the people who grew up in the area. So we organized a meeting, sent out information in the- still living in the area and those how had previously lived in the area. We met and we had about seventy-eight people complete the survey that I had put together and not knowing exactly what I would be saying in a written history about the community, I asked a lot of questions. From whether or not your parents had home grown vegetables, what were the old remedies that your parents used, what games do you remember, what do you remember about the community, so I asked a bunch of questions. So there was a lot of information, a lot of data when I summarized it that gave us a real beautiful picture of that neighborhood and its history so that going forward when the Leon County blueprint project was ready to move into actually placing commemorative markers whether they be columns with content on it or a little [inaudible at 15:31] or kiosks or statuettes, we would have specific content that would help to guide those narratives for our section of this- it was once canal street that we knew it as when we were growing up but it’s now been renamed FAMU way so we wanted to be sure that we had detailed information about the rich history of this segment of the car. So that’s what led me to and





seems like the more I summarized and synthesized and read and was entertained and was educated the more I wanted to write and find out about.

	S:	So did you ever submit the research? Or what happened after?



	H:	Well some of it has been submitted and that was to the team of history professors that were selected by the city of Tallahassee to conduct research about the history of all the communities starting I believe with the Adam Street Connector all the way out to the- can’t think of the name of the street- in other words from the beginning of this trail that was getting redeveloped to the end of the trail. I was one of the people that was interviewed about the community and we tried to encourage some others to participate. There were a few to participate but they already participated in writing answers to my survey and lots of details. We’ve already had seniors give oral history about the community. We’ve already had another Sunday afternoon chat session with seniors. We’ve done quite a bit by the time Florida A&M University was conducting- their team that the city had was conducting their research and when they submitted their draft they rkefered to it as Allen Subdivision but they didn’t have the details that I had already researched and written so I submitted to them the general history of the area so that if they were going to publish to be sure that they had it straight. That this is really not named Allen Subdivision, here are the five official subdivisions that make up this community plus that one meets and bounds parcel. So that has been submitted to their study and they’ve finished their study and published their study and right now I’m working on completing mine for the working group that I’m working on under the Leon County blueprint intergovernmental agency. I’m





working on wrapping up on my writing so that at the very least we could get it printed and into the hands of the people who grew up in the area or who’s still living there and further than that I want to get it actually published so that’s something I’m gonna have to look into. But the first step is just to get it printed and into the hands of those folks who were so kind as to participate in my survey. To participate in personal interviews that I conducted and those who participated in a video tape that we did with oral history from people- they were about twelve, thirteen people who were over eighty years old that gave us oral history for my project.

	S:	How many people did you interview total?



	H:	Oh my gosh, close to one hundred people or when I say interview- maybe we can back up to see how many people did I communicate with to get information. Okay because there were different forms of communication with them to gather the information. I think it was seventy-eight that participated in the actual survey, the written survey and an additional twenty-four I believe- it was about a hundred people that gave me information validation, confirmation and many interviews. I might run across someone who lives in California, he’s here in town, hey listen can you give me a few minutes, I just need you to give me confirmation on what you viewed as the most memorable things about Allen Subdivision to you. So I did quite a bit of that to continue confirming, continue confirming the information I had gathered from my survey.

	L:	What were your favorite pieces of information or history that you discovered that stuck out to you?





	H:	I think the most important first of all was discovering that we did not grow up in “Allen Subdivision” it was quite enlightening to find out that we grew up in a community of five subdivisions plus one meets and bounds property and what was interesting is that what probably led us to think that we grew up in one subdivision was there were clear hard boundaries around the area that we grew up in which probably let us to perceive and not only that but we were a very close knit group of people socially. Everybody knew everybody, this area covered over forty-two square feet and about five cross streets in one direction, sixty cross streets in the other. Just about everybody in that neighborhood knew each other. But it was important that we realized that as close as we were and we though we lived in one subdivision, we really were just a close knit group of people in five subdivisions plus one meets and bounds property that was enclosed by these hard boundaries. Those boundaries being Florida A&M’s property to the south, Florida A&M’s tot eh west, the railroad tracks to the north, and south Adam’s Street, which is a commercial street, to the east. So those hard boundaries allowed us, I believe, to think that we were from one subdivision. That was a very interesting find for me.

	S:	How did this revelation just change your perspective, I guess change how you viewed your past, your childhood?

	H:	Well not only that particular discovery but again I summarized and synthesized the information gathered in the- on the survey and through all of the various interviews. It I guess reconfirmed the rich value of that humble community. Out of the study came identification of people all of whom were poor, we were poor. Our





parents had very low wages, there were a few professors that lived in the neighborhood but out of those humble homes, out of those humble family incomes came people who have made some great contributions. We have people who became lawyers, doctors, people who were- who got PHD’s, who became principals, assistant principals as well as teachers of course and for me at the height of my career an international consultant, engineers, architects, construction company owner so that- it was one of the things that I was looking to confirm. That we were a little known humble community economically but how powerful and how beautiful the fruits of that little physical place called Allen Subdivision. And not only that but going beyond just my generation, our children had become engineers, doctors, lawyers, you name it as a result of the support, the love, the encouragement that we got and the education of course provided by a university that was right there adjacent to our community, to the community that we grew up in.

L:  So what’s going on currently in Allen, the redevelopment, is that- would you define it as gentrification that’s happening or is it more of just improving the infrastructure there, the roads, things like that?

	H:	Right, while I understand the concept of gentrification, I see it as how can I say the outcome for the need for growth, the need for development. Yes there were families removed from the area- relocated I should say from the area. My family was one for them but we survived, we moved to better places. We moved to homes that were better than that shotgun home that we grew up in. We moved to neighborhoods that got greater attention so far as health and cleanliness and





streets and lighting and infrastructure that we didn’t enjoy in our little humble community. So while some people get seriously concerned about gentrification, I’ve lived it and the outcome for me and my family was very positive. Now only for the family itself was it positive but the community is so uplifted. The corner that has been put into the community- well first of all let me back up to say there are some people still living in the community so not everybody was moved out of the community, only those along the path of the corner that was redeveloped that was the old Canal Street that was renamed FAMU Way. It is so beautiful now, the project for that redevelopment provided a beautiful plaza where people from the community can meet. It’s provided beautiful lighting, updated lighting, modern lighting, ergonomically designed benches for people to sit on along the carda, gorgeous landscaping. Now if we were to compare that to what was before the project came through there were dilapidated house, there were fields gathering, debris, cans, trash, in that segment of the community. So I say that the redevelopment is what made for the most positive outcome for us even though there were some us that were relocated from the community.

	S:	So who’s living in those houses now?



	H:	Some of the original owners, some are tenants, mostly college students in our community because we’re right adjacent to Florida A&M University. The- an entity with which our community in particular has had a very close relationship.

	L:	Do you feel like growing up in such a tight knit community you called it poor but powerful do you think that that influenced you to be more inclined to go and try





and be in government and have an influential role in your community and internationally?

	H:	Well in government not specifically however there was so such love, there was so much support, there was so much encouragement from each home that surrounded us as children in that community. We didn’t know exactly where we would be and God knows I would not think that this little poor girl looking downtown at the white buildings thinking that’s where the white folks work would be one that’s working in the white building, supervising whites and providing leadership not only in this immediate area but across this entire state and in another nation. So it was that love, that encouragement, hey you can do, the kinds of encouragement that they gave us we had what you call a true village in our neighborhood. Every parent looked out for every child, everybody knew everybody. There was lots of love and support in our community where the parents really encouraged you, you know they might on your way in from school, hey girl I heard you got some good grades, you keep up the good work cause they knew that we had to have the love and strong encouragement to go beyond where they had achieved. But that influenced us to want to do better. It was almost a mandate. It was almost like your parents saying to you after high school you’re going somewhere but you ain’t gonna just go right here. You got to get out of here and you got to get an education by hook or crook you will go to college and we got a lot of that kind of encouragement in the community and from our parents.





	S:	I just wanted to shift gears a bit and ask you- talk about the Civil Rights movement a little bit?

	H:	Sure.



	S:	How did the Civil Rights movement influence you?



	H:	How did it influence me? In the context of the neighborhood I lived in, our neighborhood played an important role in several ways. First of all, the two young ladies, Wilhelmina Jakes and- sorry Jakes or Paterson. Wilhelmina and I can’t remember the first name anyway they lived in our neighborhood. Our neighborhood provided housing for lots of college students and they were two people that lived in our community. Our neighbors on what was then Jennings Street back in the [19]60s witnessed a cross burning that took place next door to her and I had the honor of interviewing the person who witnessed the cross burning. It was that cross burning in the neighborhood, after these girls had been arrested for not getting off the bus or for sitting in- not wanting to sit in the back of the bus that the cross burning is what led to the civil rights movement here, the bus boycotts in Tallahassee. Now when the word got back to Florida A&M University students organized, our churches were very much involved within our neighborhood. At Saint Michael’s Episcopal Church, Father Brookes, I can’t remember his first name was one of the leaders from the church in the community and he was also a college professor in the university at the same time, he held meetings in his church at Saint Michael’s to help organize the students for their boycott. So our community provided that meeting place, that church, that leader to help students get organized. The church that I grew up in





which is a Baptist church, that’s Seminary Baptist Church, became sort of a place to retreat for college students who came down through our community. They marched- our community was the community that students marched through.

Florida A&M University sat at the hill, they came right down through our community so our community provided the pathway for the boycotts getting to downtown area. So also our other church Seminary Baptist Church became the place to receive these students when they were pushed back by law officers with their- with the dogs, with the water spray- you’re going to have to correct that- the hose, with water hoses, with tear gas. We have people, some of whom I actually interviewed for my study as well who were part of the march. They joined the students in the march downtown for the bus boycott and they were- when they were pushed back into the community it was Seminary Baptist Church in our community that received these students where they were getting water to wash their eyes out with and where they able to actually sit down and rest and kind of regroup. So not only did our community serve as a pathway for the physical movement from Florida A&M University to downtown but it also served as sort of aa comforting bed as well as a bed for organization. For me personally I witnessed that I witnessed all these students passing my house to get downtown for their march that they were participating in. How did it affect me? I say it was scary for me, it was frightening. I knew something was going to happen, I did not know exactly what. I knew that the students were marching for civil rights. I must of- I don’t remember how old I was at the time but it was little scary to me and in fact more scary when I saw the law officers pushing them backwards, back south





away from downtown. I was afraid that those students might injured or whatever, some of them did from the tear gas and when probably from some of the clubs. I didn’t see them getting hit but I was afraid that they would get injured. So in terms of how it affected me, I experienced it, the mobs coming right past my house. I was fearful but at that the same time to see all these brave I mean brave souls coming through to march for our rights, I was so uplifted I was so encouraged that okay their getting ready to do something about our being able to participate more and do more like the white folks in Tallahassee. So there were mixed emotions from me.

	S:	What advice would you give to people also students like you were talking about if they do want to get involved in activism, especially related to civil rights?

	H:	What advice would I give them? Well certainly I guess if we were to look and learn from the past, know the facts. Identify what is needed in order to bring about civil rights and equal opportunities, get organized, communicate the need to take action and take action in formalized way but greatest of all today, four letters, V-O-T-E.

	S:	Mhm absolutely. Also speaking of voting how did president Obama’s election feel, make this community feel?

	H:	I can’t speak to what it made the community that we’re talking about feel but as I know my people in that community, as I know the souls of not only the people who are still in the community but those of us who have moved out of the community and still don’t have quite the rights, still are not regarded with the same favor, the same respect as others, his election was just so uplifting. It





brought so much hope that okay maybe America is getting it. Maybe America realizes that it’s not about the color of our skin and I think too once he served I was just delighted that people who are not people of color could really see, they could directly experience that people out here have brains. They’ve got big brains, they’ve got skills, they’ve got talent, they’ve got leadership beneath that dark skin that can help enrich our country overall and you don’t have to fear us. We would never do to whites what they’ve done to our people of color. Never.

But I think if people allowed themselves to his presidency helped people to become more educated and hopefully knocked down some of the walls of fear about what may happen if people of color took leadership. So for me it was I mean it just brought tears to see that America is getting it. That people of color have great contributions, they have great intellect. We all have great experiences. I don'’ care if you didn’t make the greatest money but everybody out here makes for great tapestry. You bring talents that I don’t bring. You bring experiences that I don’t bring. You bring a kind of courage that I might not bring, all of this blends into one beautiful tapestry that can make our country so much more enriched. But the question today is are we going backwards? Are we somehow generating that fear all over again?

	L:	I feel like to build off that the answer to that question is who turns out to vote? Do you know if the church or the community here is doing anything to try to encourage people to vote in this upcoming election?

	H:	Well just based on my general knowledge if we’re talking about that community the Saint Michael’s church has always been pretty involved in helping to get





people registered. Helping to inform people about the issues, holding meetings there for people to come and become educated. The physical place that used to be Seminary Baptist Church has been purchased by a church body called True Fellowship and I was just talking with the pastor just days ago and he was saying that he has a small church, small church body but he has very sincere interest in getting more involved in the community. Now in general I believe that many churches as I guess you can say gathering places of lots of African-Americans are getting involved and have been getting involved and I think probably are more encouraged and more prayful too that they will be able to encourage people and that people will get more involved with voting. Now that’s my general sense that many African-American churches are very prayful, in fact today in my church we had a special payer for our country given the shootings, I guess y’all heard about both shootings yeah. So through prayer, through helping I guess with voter registration, sending people out in the community to help educated people. Letting people come in with forums to address the church bodies so that people who are running for office can explain their platform without taking any particular stand for any particular candidate I believe churches are very actively involved in trying to help people get prepared to vote.

	S:	I just wanted to bring it back to something very local, Mayor Andrew Gillum when he ran for governer of Florida, he’s from Tallahassee or he was mayor HERE. He went to FAMU. I just wanted to know how the I guess African-American/Black community in Tallahassee felt about that?





	H:	Oh gosh, highly elated that a young man who himself came from a very humble beginning but who again apparently appreciated by so many people all over the state was able to rise to a level of leadership and I think it surprised many people but I mean people were very tearful just like they were with Obama’s election that Andrew Gillum went as far as he did and very hopeful that he would become our governor. But that too gave us a very special sense of pride yeah. Not only to know that we as African Americans appreciated who he was and the talents that he brought and the leadership that he brought but Caucasians and people of all races and colors, ethnic groups all together throughout Florida stood behind him and recognized the great contributions he would’ve made in the state of Florida.

	L:	I think that is- it really speaks to there’s a new for more diversity especially just in the position of governors. I was reading recently that only like less than ten governors in American history have been Black and that’s something that needs to change but at least it is a source of hope you know to look at him and say maybe next time, maybe in the future we can-

	H:	Let me just go back for a minute to that issues, gentrification. Our communities went through a transition at one point where I would say back in the- I would say form the early 1930s or [19]40s all the way through the mid [19]60s we were economically pretty self-sufficient. In my community, in Allen Subdivision we had over fifty African American owned businesses. Before changes came about and before the big Walmart’s or the bigger stores came about the bigger pharmacies came about, we had cafes in Allen Subdivision. We had beauty shops, barber shops. We had radio technicians, we had a hotel I mean we had a motel. We had





grocery stores. We had corner stores where we went to get all of our little sweets and all that. Babysitting operations and of course people in business providing residency for college students. We were quite a vibrant community before changes took place in our community so I don’t know that we have more than maybe five African American owned businesses in that area now but that was one of the loses. I can’t say specifically that that was a loss due to gentrification. I’m sure that many factors contributed for example the little corner store no longer being able to compete with big Walmart or Kmart back then and people like us for whatever reasons not being able to hold on to their businesses. But that community was very much alive with night clubs in the area and all of those pretty much are gone now yeah. But that was one other thing that I took special pride in that makes me feel really good about our community when I look back that these were African Americans that owned businesses. We were pretty self- sufficient within our community. We would go outside our community for different- I mean we had a butcher, we had fish and seafood still waters. We had cafes, restaurants, night clubs, over fifty that we’ve been able to document from Allen Subdivision.

	L:	That’s really impressive. Do you know around like what the population of that area was I mean it’s sort of a specific question but I was just curious.

	H:	Population of Allen Subdivision? L:	Mhm.

	H:	You mean in terms of what? Ethnicity?





	L:	Back when there was around fifty Black owned businesses, I was just wondering what proportion of population was going out and supporting and like how many people?

	H:	Oh everybody in the community, those were the places we frequented except say if we had to go out for a medicine and of course another part of our history is that we had a lot of home remedies. But we would go down outside of the community not far but across from probably FAMU’s property to the Baker’s pharmacy. We would go to some for the bigger grocery stores. We’d cross the railroad track for feed for our chickens that we raised in our yards. But just everybody in the community supported these businesses. Our beauticians, our barbers, we had a person who fixed radios. We had a florist. We had all kinds of businesses and that’s where we did our business in the community. It was right there right close.

	S:	Is there any other information you’d like to share with us?



	H:	Well yes I would say too that one thing about this particular African American community is that we had a very close relationship to the university, Florida A&M University. It provided a place of employment for our parents, for many of our parents and it provided economy to those of us in our homes. We had people who would take in laundry for college professors in their homes. Many people provided room and board for students who couldn’t get dormitory space on campus. The university provided for us playgrounds for our community to play on. It provided sometimes even big summer festivals, watermelon festivals that we could come out to. Of course it provided great entertainment for us with the





marching 100 band. We got to see them for free because we’re right here near our community. The university provided role models, there were a few people who taught at the university or the university’s high school that were role models for us in our community and of course we provided even churches for those students to worship in. So we had a beautiful relationship between our community since we were right there in close proximity to the university between our community and the university. So we had a very close relationship. We were part of that civil rights movement. We had great African American owned businesses, they have a unique history. One that’s kind of cute when we consider that we thought we were one community but I don’t think parents even looked into are we Allen Subdivision? I don’t know that that ever came up. So we have a pretty rich history among those people in that community which is such a close knit group. So in terms of general history, great stuff from Allen Subdivision. The churches, their role, like I said relationship with FAMU, the civil rights movement and then what was also sweet was our general everyday living, our lifestyles. We have a variety of homes in our community but there were a lot of shotgun homes in the community. We grew our own fresh garden I mean fresh vegetables. We had fruit trees in the community too. We did our home remedies and I was gonna give you an example. If you got a bee sting your mother or father would place wet chewing tobacco or snuff on that bee sting. If you got a sprained ankle your parents would come find red clay from the ground and vinegar. They’d place that compound on your ankle and wrap it with a rag to hold





it in place. If you got a cut or bruise- a cut that was bleeding they would take spider webs and pack it into that cut to stop the bleeding.

	L:	Wow.



	H:	So apparently they worked, we lived. Well you see we have some beautiful, rich and unique experiences coming up in that humble neighborhood. Special meals always that good old fried chicken and rice and gravy and potato salad and collard greens and cornbread and yams and all them specials treats and everything. But that in general kind of encapsulates my memories and the actual documented history of the area of Tallahassee called Allen Subdivision.

	L:	Awesome.



	H:	Okay I failed to mention when I was talking about the kinds of products that came out of Allen that your former congresswoman Carrie Meek who was Carrie Pittman at the time she was living in our community, grew up in our neighborhood. In fact her mother and father owned one of the businesses that we like to highlight. It was a boarding house for college girls at FAMU whop were not able to get into dormitories at the university so again that’s another example of how our community provided support to the university and this university sent income into our homes. I’m sorry I forgot to mention that now we had great athletes come out of the community as well.

	S:	Okay so just on the behalf of the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program we would like to thank you so much for taking the time to meet with us today and sharing your story.

	H:	My pleasure.





[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Amanda Lorenzo, November 19, 2019 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, January 15, 2021 Final edited by:	Sandra Romero, January 27,2021