AAHP 398; Cummings; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 398 Louissteen Cummings African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Ryan Morini, Justin Hosbey on January 29, 2016 1 hour, 11 minutes | 36 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 398

Interviewee: Louissteen Cummings Interviewer: Ryan Morini, Justin Hosbey Date: January 29, 2016



	M:	This is Ryan Morini with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. It’s January 29th, 2016. I’m here with my colleague—

	H:	Justin Hosbey.



	M:	And today we will be interviewing Ms.— C:	Louissteen Cummings.

	M:	In Eatonville, Florida. Thank you for joining us today. Could I start by asking when and where you were born?

	C:	I was born in Quincy, Florida—with Florida—near Tallahassee 9-22-1946.



	M:	Okay. I’m actually September twentieth so very close. Is Quincy where you grew up?

	C:	I grew up there till I turned fourteen, and we moved to Eatonville. And Eatonville is just like home right now.

	M:	Okay. Is it okay to ask a little about Quincy and your experiences?



	C:	Well, yes. Quincy—my grandmother had thirteen kids, and we lived on this huge house on Highway 90 in the country, very country. We had pigs and cows, and we grew everything but the flour to cook with. We grew vegetables. My grandmother made dresses for her granddaughters out of the flour sacks, and then when school’s out, we would work in the tobacco field for like fifty cent a day, but we thought that was a lot of money back in that time, and so finally I had several aunts and uncle to migrate to Eatonville. And my mother, my brother and I, we was the only one left in Quincy. So after my grandmother passed away in 1954, we moved to Eatonville in 1959, and I’ve been in Eatonville ever since.





	M:	Never looked back?



	C:	No, I only been back once and that was it. M:	Can I ask your grandmother’s name?

	C:	Sure my grandmother was named Martha Belim. M:	Belim, okay.

	H:	How do you spell Belim?



	C:	B-E-L-I-M. And matter fact, I have relatives in Tallahassee—well I did. In Tallahassee, my aunt ‘bout four—great aunt—‘bout four years ago passed away. She was 103, and she lived on Van Buren streets there in Tallahassee, not too far from the campus.

	H:	The Florida A&M campus? C:	Campus, right.

	M:	Can I ask your parents’ names?



	C:	My mother—at that time—my mother was not married when I was born. My mother was named Gussie Johnson, and my father was named Louis Daniels. That’s how they come up with Louissteen. My maiden name is Daniels.

	M:	Okay.



	H:	So what was it like for you after you came here to Eatonville from Quincy?



	C:	Well after I moved here to Eatonville, you all would be surprised; I am used to the dirt roads. We had outside toilets, and the house that I moved to in 1959 still stands in Eatonville now and someone living in it. They’re on Clark Street behind the motel. The house sits there. That’s the house I was born—I finished high school and all elementary school and all from that home. But after coming to





Eatonville, my mother was a single parent, and every morning I think about it and I just say “Lord thank you for grace.” My mother would get up every morning, catch the city bus, walk from Eatonville to 1792 5:30 every morning to survive for my brother and I. But as coming up, she believed in education. We could not miss school, and during my senior year in high school, my coach wanted me to play basketball. My mother—the coach looked like she had to get on her knees and beg my mom for me to play basketball, and I had a certain time when practice was over with to be home. My mother did not believe in kids out in the streets. We had certain time that we will mingle with cousins but a certain time we had to be in, and she believed in cleaning the house. We had chores to do.

We just couldn’t just sit around, and at that time, we really didn’t have a TV. We would listen to Uncle Remus on the radio, and at night, you go to bed after. Every dinner, after six o’clock, you had your bath, and we didn’t have a bathroom. We had to bathe in tin tubs, big, old tin tub. One after another might be sitting in a room, and that’s how we took our bath, but on Sunday morning, we had to be in church. We started Sunday school at 10 o’clock. We had BTU. I take that back— ten o’clock Sunday school, eleven o’clock service, BTU at three, and then we had a six o’clock service. We stayed in church, but you know I can look back now for how Eatonville progressed. I mean if you had on white shoes, by the time you get to church, they was grey ‘cause of the dirt roads. You know, and the family— my family, it wasn’t too many jobs available at that time. It was like picking fruit.

They would pick the fruit, and at that time they made a little money. They thought it was a lot of money, but we survived, and then when school is out, my—I never





will forget—my aunt and uncle would get a lot of us on a bus. They had a school bus where we go pick beans for like fifty cent, but we thought that was a lot of money back then. So after we—the school is over with, all during the summer that’s what we did. We picked beans. Not to bring the beans home, we was picking them for a company, and then Monday morning, we’ll wake up and go back and do the same thing until school start back, but we was able to survive with clothes and food and stuff. We didn’t have to be on the street, and during that time you didn’t hear about killing, and you didn’t hear about robbing ‘cause we would sit in our house with the windows and doors open. You didn’t have to worry about nobody coming in doing anything to you. But what I really liked about it the neighbors looked out for each other because in my family, my brother and I did something wrong and a neighbor saw it, she had the ability to beat us and then when we get home we got another whipping from mom because that’s just how close net the families and friends were together here in Eatonville, and we still find some of that, but I must say Eatonville have improved a lot. I mean you know back in the time I can see the ice man coming round with chunks of ice, the milk man leaving the milk at the door, but like I said again, we did not suffer. We did not eat pork and beans and hot dogs every day. We had four course meals and on Sundays, you got the fried chicken; you had the greens, the potato salad, the rice and the cornbread and sweet tea, and then if we didn’t have the tea, they would make what you call “sweet syrup”. They would put the water in the syrup and make it, but we enjoyed it, you know.





	M:	So when you were here in Eatonville were you growing your own food here as well or did you have a garden here?

	C:	Oh yes, we had a garden. We had everything here in Eatonville. I mean everything. We had the garden, and we just went ahead with everything. We would plant our collard greens because you know the collards mainly be in the summer time and the mustards are in the winter time, and we had our little dogs and cats, but I didn’t like the cat because I did something to my mother cat. She came home one day, the cat wasn’t there; I made my brother tie a stocking, and I put some turpentine on a rock inside of that stocking, and I said “Now you better tie it on that cat tail.” As soon as he tied it, the cat took off and started running.

We haven’t seen the cat since. So when my mother came home, she asked “Where was Blackie?” I said “He was outside earlier.” But I told him—I looked at him I said “You better not tell it.” And today—my mother passed in 2000—she don’t know what I did to that cat. [Laughter] So if you want to get rid of a cat, try to put some turpentine on a rock on his tail and it gone send him off. [Laughter] But it’s amazing.

	H:	So you mentioned how you thought that Eatonville has improved, in what ways when you said that, what did you mean?

	C:	When I say “improve” for the streets is concerned, government, education and people owning they own homes. It’s just, everything that it would take to—like you say it take a village to raise a family? So that’s to me--that’s how Eatonville is today.

	H:	Okay.





	M:	Can I ask just a little more about your grandmother? C:	Sure.

	M:	So she owned a good bit of property up there then is that right? Or that was her family?

	C:	Well, no.



	M:	Okay.



	C:	We didn’t ever own the property. We worked for how you would call them, “Our Boss man.” We lived on acres, acres of land with this big house. Didn’t have to pay rent but, you had to work in his field as far as tobacco is concerned. We were planting tobacco; we were crop it; we would send it out to what you call the house—it’s a house that they called it and we go in and strain the tobacco and be ready to ship it out. So we didn’t have anything to worry about as far as rent. At that time we had lamps. We didn’t have lights, electric lights. And every May 20th, back in Quincy where the Blacks lived, our boss man would do what you call—it was a program not per se a program, but he would kill so many hogs it was like an event, festival for us. On May 20th, he would feed everybody that’s on his farm. You know like kill the hogs and the cows, and my grandmother and some more of the ladies they would cook the vegetables. He’ll come over and eat too, but it wasn’t like that—I see the different than now. He wasn’t bossy. Although you lived in his house, but we kept it nice and clean. We did not have a yard rake like they have rakes now. We had to go in the woods and cut limbs from the oak tree, tie ‘em up and sweep. And the house was up off the ground—maybe about, look like three or four feet high—but up under there you could go get you a





blanket and lay down and go to sleep because we had to clean it. And as far as it concerned like—we had outdoor toilets too in Quincy, and after moving here I thought Eatonville would have had it made but some of my aunts stayed in a house over there on Clark Street in a grove, and we had an outhouse. But we had to clean that outhouse. We just couldn’t go in and use the outhouse, but— number one—you didn’t know it was an outhouse because you didn’t smell it. My grandmother would make what you call soap in a wash pot outside, and you talking about the prettiest white clothes. She would make it, she would boil the sheets, take them out, we had to rinse them in about four tubs. Each one of us stand there and rinse those clothes out and hang them on the line, and when they get dry you could fold them, just take your hand and just rub across because it got a nice crease to ‘em. But you know, I tell my kids nowadays I said “You know you all have it made and don’t know it.” Because I mean back then we didn’t have—the mosquitos might come in the house, but we didn’t have screen windows. It was just a push out wooden, wooden it just go out like that and you could sleep all night. We didn’t have air condition, but no one came in the home to bother you. You could leave your clothes on the line all day, you had about four or five dogs, but that was fine but the dogs and everything was just as clean as up under the house because there’s a certain time, especially in the summer time we had to wash those dogs. We had to absolutely go to the well--ain’t had no faucet—we had wells. Had to go to the well, pull the water with the bucket and pour it inside of a wash pot and that’s how we bathed the dog.

	M:	So, what was school like in Quincy?





	C:	Oh, I love my school. I went to elementary school there called Steven Elementary and after going and finishing elementary school I only went one year to Carter Parramore, but we had to walk to school. We had the physical walk to school.

They didn’t have lunchrooms. If my mother and my grandmother made biscuits the night before, we get up the next morning, that’s our lunch with peanut butter and jelly, and we didn’t have wax paper. They wrapped it up in a brown paper bag. The bag would be so greasy, and they would put our milk, because we had fresh milk from the cows, they would put the milk in a jar, and that’s how we would go to school and the school—nothing like the desks they have now, we would just sit there, put your lunch up under your seat and when time for lunch you eat and go back to your work. But we got out kinda early at that time during the years we got out like two o’clock and then you could go home and by you walking, your mother—I never will forget. My mother bought me a pair of black and white—we call them saddle lock shoes. I wore the sole out from up under that shoe by walking, but they got a piece of wire and tied it back and those shoes, I don’t care what you did what those shoes, they would never tear up.

Like I said we made it.



	H:	Are there any teachers you remember that stand out to you that you had? C:	Talking about in Quincy or here?

	H:	Quincy, yeah.



	C:	Yeah I had one was Ms. Anderson. I never will forget her. She was my first grade teacher, and she used to tell my mom, “Oh you gonna be so proud of her; you gonna be so proud of her.” But I made it. Thank God I made it. Yeah.





	M:	I was wondering, where were your grandparents from? C:	My grandparents were from South Carolina.

	M:	Okay, okay.



	C:	I did some study up on her and my grandfather, and I have a friend now; she’s into all of that “How to find your ancestors” and all that.

	H:	Genealogy.



	C:	Yeah and she’s fantastic. She did a lot of work here in Eatonville, but she moved back to Ohio. She found for my mother, for my grandmother had her first child. I knew my grandmother’s first child wasn’t from my granddaddy because she wasn’t married. All of that showed, and it showed where we lived around the corner like a Caucasian family was living here, it showed all of that, their name and everything. So it’s amazing how you could find out stuff about your family, but my grandmother, all the majority of my aunt and uncle probably went to fifth grade, but you couldn’t cheat them. My mother passed in 2000, and she was eighty-six. My mother can sit down and write just as good as you, but you cannot—when time to count money and stuff—you can’t cheat her. She said “I might not have finished school, but I know right from wrong.” And they would tell you a lot of time the wisdom is what can pull you through although I just thank God for education nowadays because mother—they did teach us the do’s and the don’ts, but not like we can get it today. They would never sit down and tell us things. We had to find out ourselves. Like I share with my kids all the time, I tell them “My mother never physically set me down and said ‘You don’t need to do





this as a young lady, you don’t need to do that.” But I learned on my own,” and that’s what they define as wisdom.

	H:	So can we go back to Eatonville now? I’m thinking, what was it like for you when you all moved here? What made you guys move to Eatonville?

	C:	Well we moved to Eatonville because all my mom’s sisters and brothers was here in Eatonville. My uncle moved here first, and in 1946, he married the mayor of Eatonville daughter.

	H:	Okay. You remember her name? C:	My aunt?

	H:	Yeah, yeah.



	C:	Yeah her name was Laura Crooms. H:	Laura Crooms okay.

	C:	Laura Crooms. Zora speaks about her a lot in her book, and her daddy was named Columbus Crooms. I was still in high school when he deceased, and he was the first mayor of Eatonville. So when we got here everybody tried to surround us. My aunt stayed over here; I had an uncle that lived further down, and then one lived in the back and then we here on this corner. So when we got here, I never will forget, at that time my mama had a boyfriend. I didn’t like him though but that’s okay. He drove us from Quincy to Eatonville, my brother and I, with four parakeets. That’s why I love birds. I was brought up with parakeets and from that day on, she put us there and see to us being fed and dressed. If I did not tell you, I did not have a dad in the house. You wouldn’t know it because my mother—I tell people coming up, they say “Where’s you dad?” I say “He’s over





there.” I point to my mom, and they look at me like “That’s your mom.” I say “That’s my dad too,” because she was a super survivor, and we, there together, we looked out for each other. Like on Sundays we would have the big meals here in Eatonville and all of us would be surrounded. I had and I think I got ways today like my Aunt Jesse, her name was Jesse Jones. My aunt would cook for everybody in there and wouldn’t eat. She liked fishing and that’s what I was saying when I got grown, I promised everybody I would not fish because coming up as teenager, everybody had girlfriends and boyfriends no, no, no. Unh-uh. We had to get up and go dig the worms in the woods. Over here was nothing but woods. Nothing but woods, I mean woods. We had to get up, go dig those baits, come back, and that lake sit over there? It’s still back in the back, back over in there now. We had to go fish, and I said “Lord if you help me to get grown, I’ll never fish.” And I do not fish, but I clean them, and I’ll cook them. But I love fish, and I like fish with the bones in it too I don’t care for a fillet fish. So it just— Eatonville, it’s really amaze me. If you could just flip and go back to the hands of time and see how it was back in the [19]50s and what it is now 2016. We have come a long, long, long, long ways. I just wish that we can get more business here in Eatonville. That way it will help the tax payers a lot. But, I look at it somewhere down the line, eventually, we’re gonna have those stores. We gonna have those banks and no telling, might have a McDonalds. You know, but in Eatonville it’s kind of, something that you would want to say one day “I could get rich in Eatonville.” And I feel that way. I feel Eatonville has something out there that we as human beings might one day say “I want a piece of property in





Eatonville.” It might not look like nothing right now for you, but later on in life, everybody that is surrounding us now gone try to get a piece of Eatonville.

H:  I had a question for you. You talked about the lake and how you had to get up and go fishing and that was when you were a child. Y’all had to go get the bait and then take them out and you said it was lots of wood area out here—

C:   All of this was nothing but woods.



	H:	Yeah, how was it like coming—how did you guys kinda live in the forest area with—you know you got the animals and you have so much going on and—

	C:	Well, we got so used to seeing the possums and the coons. You know you gone have your door where a possum might just walk in the door. You know? But we adjust to it because we could not help it. The streets weren’t like they are now.

They was very like, almost like path, like a path that you had to go down. But the streets did not get named physical—I’m trying to put it together I don’t think till the late [19]50s. The streets was not named I don’t think when I moved here. It just something that was created, and they start naming the different streets by different—like Clarke Street was one of the Cottons or Clark. You know, Eaton, and I’m quite sure you all are familiar—Eatonville just didn’t—if I’m not mistaken, I don’t think it was created from Black. We had Whites in Maitland that really donated this land. You know Mr. Hungerford named the schools. I graduated in 1965 from Hungerford High School, and his name was Robert Hungerford, lived in Maitland. It’s amazing how Eatonville, like I say, progressed, and like you said the wildlife, I did never see a bear, but like I said you heard of the coons and the possums because sometimes when we would go dig the base, we might run up





on a snake and take off and start running. But it’s nothing, you know, so that it did not stop you from being pleased with what you have and where you are.

	H:	So I have a question too about growing up in Eatonville. Did you all know that this was like a town mostly where Black people had political, economic kind of a history here or was it kind of just normal? Or did you all know about the Black part of it?

	C:	When I moved here, I did not know. H:	Okay.

	C:	Eventually, it start coming into phases saying how the town advanced, and be honest when we first moved here, it wasn’t nothing but Blacks. But now, it’s over twenty-five to twenty-six hundred in Eatonville, and we have maybe forty or thirty percent is mixed, and that did not show anything any different than anywhere else because we had our own fire department when I moved here.

	H:	Yeah.



	C:	You had your own police department. I knew several of the policemen—they were so old, but they was good policemans. You didn’t have to worry about going to school like now to become a policeman, but it’s amaze me. It really is amazing, and like I was sharing about this house here, I have eaten many meals in this house because I knew the family very close. And speaking of, I didn’t know anything about Zora until maybe in the late [19]70s because when I first moved here I didn’t hear nothing about Zora. Didn’t know what did Zora exist, but the more I get involved with it, the more I can see and understand what is going





on with the town when they say “Zora.” You know because years ago we used to thought Zora was buried here but Zora was not buried here.

	M:	Can I ask what you remember about the Mosley’s here? The family- C:	Miss Matilda Mosley?

	M:	Yes.



	C:	And Catherine Alexander was her sister. She was a post-master in Eatonville, and it was a sad—Miss Catherine Mosley—I mean Miss Catherine Alexander, she got murdered in the post office. This guy kidnapped her and took her and killed her somewhere. Now that was a heartbreaker, and I can remember this house wasn’t here all the while because you see like out here on Kennedy going this way? There used to be a little store, old-fashioned looking store. Miss Alexander used to have the post office in there. The Alexander, some of her—we talked one day; some of her family is from Quincy. We know some of each other’s family. She would call my mama “Coudin Gussy” and Miss Matilda, that owns this house, would say the same thing too, “Coudin Gussy”. I can visualize a very sophisticated lady, Miss Matilda. Kind of brown-skinned, dresses real nice, built real nice to be an old lady and she was very bow-legged.

	H:	Okay.



	C:	Very nice looking lady and you know it just—we just was close. So after talking backwards and forth with the family, they knew all of my aunt family on the Crooms side because they’re like distant cousins, like second or third cousin. That’s how we became just like that because we had the same family that they had.





	M:	I see. You also mentioned going to church, which church did you go to? C:	My first church was over here on Calhoun Street.

	M:	Okay.



	C:	Macedonia sit here—I grew up at Open Door Missionary Baptist Church. I left Open Door Missionary Baptist Church about twenty-eight years ago and joined Macedonia. At Open Door Missionary Baptist Church, I was a Sunday school teacher. I kept the secretary, all the records. I was over finance, and I did BTU: that’s Baptist Training Unit, with the youth, and they had—how I knew so much about Open Door, my mother, my brother and I, we moved from the house I told you about on Clarke’s Street, and it was a little, tiny house sitting next to Open Door. That’s where we lived, and so we couldn’t help from going to church because you’re walking out the door and then you’re here. But when someone pass away, that bell will tone. A deacon, or a member the church, come and tone the bell, hit it like four times to let you know someone has passed. It’s amazing.

	M:	Sounds it. Can I ask also about Hungerford? What was your experience like there?

	C:	The high school? M:	Yes.

	C:	I entered Hungerford High School when I moved here at fourteen, and at that time I was in ninth grade.

	M:	Okay.



	C:	Started out—I would have never thought I would have been a basketball player, but my cousin and I became the youngest two on the basketball team. I played





basketball from ninth grade to my senior year in high school, and at that time we had Mr. Frank M. Otey was our principal. He was such a fantastic man. He believe in education, so my senior year in high school my mother couldn’t afford to send me into college, knowing I was working during the summer at the school getting a little check. You know it was a program that Orange County had, so one day this guy came from Ocala. He said “Mr. Otey, do you know of anyone that would like to further their education but can’t afford to go?” I was one of them.

The guy got me, come and talked to my mother and Mr. Otey. I went to junior college, Hampton Junior College, in Ocala which is now the University of Central Florida you know in Ocala, so I just said I worked in the office. That’s how I had to pay my tuition. My mother didn’t have money, so he see to me getting there and about four or five of us end up going to that school just working our way through college because we didn’t have no—I didn’t have no money, and my mother worked for this family that lived there in Maitland. And every weekend, or every other weekend I would come home—I never will forget her name, Ms.

Melicott. She would see to me coming, nothing but just dusting and cleaning her bathroom, but she gave me twenty-five dollars every time I come home. That’s helped me to go back to school, but I didn’t want for anything. The guy that came from Hampton Junior College that was including my books and everything, and at that time we didn’t stay on campus because it was a junior college, but I was with a family, a real nice family. She would only charge us fifty dollars a month to stay and Hampton Junior College paid that for me. My mother didn’t have to come out of her pocket, and then just so happened I had like several classmates, after we





graduated from high school, Hungerford, that went there. And they had cars; they would bring me back home.

	M:	Sorry wait I had a couple of questions at one time, so Frank Otey that’s him name? Because he wrote a history of Eatonville—

	C:	Yes he did. So you know about it. Yeah, he wrote the history. I mean you’re talking about a man that cared about the students, and his wife Geraldine Otey, worked out there too, at the school. I mean Mr. Otey was fantastic. If you got into any trouble, you better hope that he don’t tell your mama, but he was very concerned about the children going to school at Hungerford, and if he could help you, he did help you. And I always admire him.

	M:	Did you interact with him a lot directly or?



	C:	Yes, and afterward, I graduated. Yeah after I graduated, he took ill. I would go over there and see him. If you go the back way all the way back, like going the back way to Winter Park and you gonna come up Don Reid Ford, he owned all that property there. I mean he was a caring man, very, very caring because if you didn’t have money to buy a pencil, he would give you the money to go buy a pencil with. And if you didn’t have lunch money, he’ll say, “Come on. Imma walk you to the lunch room.” He took care of us, very.

	M:	And so what time period were you going to Hampton?



C:  I went to Hampton from 1965 to 1967. I was majoring in Business Administration, and at that time my mother, my little—I called it little grant money had ran out, so I had to come home.

M:   Okay.





	C:	So-



	M:	Okay did you ever run into a Reverend Frank Pinkston in Ocala by any chance?



Do you know him?



	C:	[Laughter] Yes I do. Matter of fact his sister, Anne Pinkston kinda sorta entered the family with the Rackard family. Yeah the Rackard family is in my family too.

	H:	Oh okay.



	M:	We’ve talked to David Rackard.



	C:	David?



	M:	Yeah.



	C:	Yeah, it’s a lot that you see it’s just little bits. A lot of us as being young, we did not realize that till after we got older because Anne and I had classes together and Anne—I wanna say—Anne’s son married my cousin that wasn’t no relation towards him, but yeah I know him, the Pinkston.

	M:	Do you remember anything about Frank Pinkston himself?



C:  No not really just pick up the name when I was there in Ocala. M:  So I’m wondering, you moved to Eatonville in ’59 is that right? C:  Uh huh.

M:   Okay so you were going to the Hungerford school—



	C:	But I went to high school at Hungerford because I was fourteen when I got here, but all my elementary education was in Quincy.

	M:	Well I was wondering did people talk about the Civil Rights Movement in high school while you were there given the time period?





	C:	A little but not like it is now. Just a little that you could see about the Civil Rights Movement but otherwise—now be honest with you, I didn’t see that in Quincy you know because like I said, they looked out for us because we lived in their house you know took care of their floor and stuff. I didn’t see anything civil rights, see was anything wrong. “Did you hate me or I hated you?” I didn’t see that. I never picked up on that.

	M:	Okay. So you don’t remember much in Eatonville about Civil Rights going on at that time? Do you remember much in Orlando or anything?

	C:	You hear people talk about it. M:	Okay.

	C:	You know but it wasn’t—I didn’t see about “Ima come by you and shoot you up.” I didn’t hear that. Yeah, but it was said, but not as—well to me right now it’s not drastic like it was back in the [19]60s or something like that.

	M:	Okay, okay. So what about—you mentioned using the radio for the news. What newspapers did you get or how did you get the newspapers?

	C:	We didn’t have no newspaper. In Quincy, it was a little radio. There was a certain station you could put on for Uncle Remus. That was like a show you could listen to and talk. You can’t talk while Uncle Remus is on because grandmama in there would look at you. You got to hush. And then later on for moving here, we did have a TV. My mother would love the news. I guess that’s why I’m just so keen on the news now because I turned my TV on in the morning time, and I look at Channel 9 News till it goes off at night. You know, so we did have a little TV. It wasn’t no big TV in they room. We had one TV, and when she get ready to cut





that TV off at night, that’s it. Turn the TV off. That’s it. You gonna hear it no more until the next morning.

	H:	When you were growing up did you all go swimming or to the beach or into the lakes? Was there any time y’all just—like how did you have fun?

	C:	Well how we had fun, I can stay here in Eatonville, those dirt roads was a field. We would play baseball. We would ride bikes you know, volleyball and the Lake Sybelia is back behind there. They might have taken us there one time, but that’s where the majority of the people of Eatonville was baptized, in Lake Sybelia. We didn’t go. My mother and family didn’t believe in beach. I didn’t know what a beach was until I got old, I mean old [Laughter] because we never had anything like that for fun. And they didn’t have a movie—they had a movie, like a drive-in theater was way out over there, but we couldn’t go. We could not go. So as kids for entertainment, coming up here in Eatonville, we used to have what you call a “Teenage Place.” It used to be a little place down there. We could go have a little party, but you had to be outta there eleven o’clock and home, and that was it.

	H:	So when you say you couldn’t go was it because just your parents were- C:	My parents-

	H:	“Come home at a certain time.”



	C:	My parents was very strict. I mean my mother was so strict till I did not start dating till I was nineteen, and you had to almost get on your knees to beg because she didn’t go for that. I don’t know why, but all my other friends they had boyfriend. But I didn’t. Even like I said to you all when I played basketball, practice is over at 5:30. I lived on Clark Street, and the school is here; I better be





home by the quarter till. If anything later, she coming looking for me, and I don’t mean she coming empty handed. But other than that, it’s just amazing.

	H:	So I’m thinking, did you know much about the University of Florida or Gainesville?

	C:	I heard of that University of Florida after I graduated from high school. Then I start getting into listening to a different segment of it but other than that unh-uh.

	H:	Not really?



	C:	And now I have had—matter fact my little cousin just graduated there from, I think he going in to be a federal marshal. So he just—Kenneth Banes is his name. He just graduated. But other than that unh-uh. I often heard that it was a good school and good lawyers. Good attorneys coming out there and doctors-- I did used to hear that all the time. So if you want a degree in medical, the best place to go is the University of Gainesville.

	H:	Right, right.



	M:	So I’m guessing you weren’t allowed at that age to go but did you know about the—was it the Eaton Club downtown used to get James Brown?

	C:	The Club Eaton.



	M:	Club Eaton.



	C:	My house stayed right there. Right here you can go down, you see the club sits here; the hotel sits there; my house that I lived in sat on that corner; it’s still there. Yeah, I heard about Club Eaton, and I say when I got old “I’m going to hear myself some James Brown.” We used to sit on our porch and listen to the music; Jackie Wilson and James Brown would come to town. It was at that time very





popular club, and then when I graduated and had the opportunity to go in, every Tuesday we have what they call “Blue Tuesday.”

	H:	Okay.



	C:	So I had the opportunity to go in with some friends. We sit and listen, and we had this guy at the time—he was a Spanish guy—he ran it. His name was Ralph. I never will forget him, but they have like food and you know certain time for the drinks. Yeah I heard of Club Eaton.

	M:	Let’s see, so what about—were there any restaurants or any other kinds of businesses around?

	C:	Well we had at the time, there where the hotel used to be a restaurant ther,e but that did not establish till like in the [19]70s or [19]80s. Now when I first moved here, there was a little restaurant down the street not too far from Town Hall, and it used to be called Ms. Van Ester Jordan Restaurant. It was like a hole in the wall, but you could go in and buy fish sandwiches and chicken. That’s the only one that I ever known of and then right here, like we sitting here, you go back this way, it’s a barber shop on that two-story building. My girlfriend mother owns that. I used to help make hamburgers outta there, and that used to be called the Cunningham Place. That’s the only—we only had two. We only had two places that you could go eat and then half of the time, the majority of places they had no room to sit, so you just had to go in a place your order and leave. Take your order with you.

	H:	Like a take-out.



	C:	Like a take-out.





	M:	Where did you get your hair cut?



	C:	We had a few barbers here, but the real barber you had to go to Winter Park.



Yeah you had to go to Winter Park. Now when I first moved here, we had quite a few beauticians for the females but not for the males.

	H:	Okay and who were the beauticians that were here at that time?



	C:	At that time it was Elouise Evans, Helen White and Anne Peters. This lady is ninety-six years old now, and she still goes to the homes, like the nursing homes, and do hair. She just turned ninety-six bout two weeks ago and still travels and do hair. She was driving, but I think they stopped her from driving. [Laughter] Yes, sure did.

	H:	Did you ever go to any of them when you were growing up?



	C:	Oh, yeah! Elouise Evans is one that really my mother only trusts because I used to have hair down to here and coming from Quincy, there wasn’t too many beauticians there. My aunt and those, they did our own hair. They would straighten it with a straightening comb. I still got a straightening comb on my mom’s own now that they would straighten our hair, and they would use Royal Crown Hair Grease. It was a white grease, or either they would use bergamont. It was green on our hair, but our hair grew very long and nothing else.

	H:	So what was it like when you were at the beauty parlor, and would you listen to conversations and?

	C:	You couldn’t help that just like it is now. Conversation, they’ll talk about the churches you know what’s going on in the church, who got baptized and who had





a baby and who got married. You know that’s mainly what you hear in the beauty shop.

	H:	Okay and that was the place where you said your mother only trusted— C:	Elouise Evans.

	H:	Elouise.



	C:	You know where town hall is now? H:	No, no.

	C:	Y’all ain’t been to town hall?



	M:	Part of town is blocked off right now.



	C:	Yeah but you could go—there is a road you can go and go right cross over into town hall. There’s where they have the frame shop. That used to be her shop right there.

	H:	Okay.



	C:	I could walk there, and she would not let me leave that beauty shop. I don’t care if she through. She’ll tell my mother what time to be there to get me and my mom would be there and I’d be ready.

	H:	Where did you guys kind of shop for clothing?



C:  Now there’s something down JM Fields used to be out here in Winter Park. H:  Okay.

C:  It only had like look like one department store, and that was JM Fields. At that time they didn’t have K Mart. It was JM Fields or either we would do hand-me- downs.

M:   So was Winter Park the main place you would go for—





	C:	To shop.



	M:	To go to shop.



	C:	Shop uh huh, Winter Park. M:	Okay.

	C:	So where we went to Orlando, they had a lot of stores like Learners, Woolworth and like that, but you had to drive there. It’s not like it is now. You could just drive there and get out the car and go in, but at the time when I first moved here to Eatonville, we had gone to Orlando to Woolworth, and they would have a special sign on there say “No Blacks allowed” in the bathrooms and all of that. And we couldn’t sit to eat. You either get it and leave and half of the time they have the door closed where it say “No Blacks are allowed.” But it came over, came cross.

	H:	What did it feel like when you first saw those signs?



	C:	Well, as being young, I would say “what they mean about that?” You know my mom would explain to me, say, “We can’t go in there.” I say “Oh, oh okay.” And that was it.

	H:	When she said “we,” did you think that means that “us our family can’t,” or did you know what that meant?

	C:	No, I knew what it meant. I mean that is being a color. We couldn’t go in there because at that time they didn’t have Blacks on the doors. They say “color,” “color people not allowed.” So you know being young youse like “why they saying that?” You know and you could peep in there, and you didn’t see any in there because at that time we was kind of afraid because you never know what might happen to you. But thank God for now.





	H:	And during that time period when you said “You never know what might happen” did you, in Eatonville, hear about things happening? If not in Eatonville, just around?

	C:	Yes bout surrounding, and I don’t know you all guys are probably too young to remember this but Emmett Tillman out of Mississippi, I’ll never will forget when they killed him. Now that was—I was young too, but I can remember it. It was like he was almost—at that time, I was still in Quincy. You was almost that time scared to go anywhere because you didn’t know.

	H:	So how did you talk about it with your grandmother and your mother about what was going on, or did you just knew what that meant?

	C:	I just knew what it meant. Because like I stated before, they ain’t never physically said “I want you to learn this and learn that.” You just learned it on your own. I knew what they was talking about.

	M:	Did you interact much with White people when you were growing up or any— C:	When I was growing up?

	M:	Yeah did you see any?



	C:	Well, in Quincy, it wasn’t that many because where they had us--when I say “us,” it was more than my family but—we was way out in the woods wasn’t nothing there but Blacks. As growing up coming to Eatonville, I must say I worked at a

all-White daycare over there in Lake Sybelia, and her name was Anne Doyle; D- O-Y-L-E. Her husband was something big with the Orange County Health Department. It’s so ironic, I started at the daycare. My cousin started the daycare, the same daycare. My mother cooked in her house and cleaned her





house, so it was just when she would introduce us, it’s not “This is Gussy Johnson and this—they call me Steen for short”—unh uh. She said “This is my family” you know. And that made me feel good because when she deceased bout six years ago, we was on the obituary. You know it stood up, and we walked in with the family. It was just amazing, and her daughter still live around the house. I could go there and sit on the porch anytime I get ready. You know but my best friends are White. Matter fact, my ex-daughter-in-law was Caucasian. I have two Caucasian grandchildren. So you know I don’t have a problem with it because when I talk two people, I tell them “My blood is red and yours too.” So far as all this hatred is going on, I just wish that they would just stop it because when you look at in the world, you no different than I am. So we need to just get along, and I think as we could get along better than what we did in the past. I think life would be so much better. Yeah.

	H:	I wanna ask when you were younger, did you all ever hunt? C:	My uncles did. They would go hunting in Quincy.

	H:	Okay.



	C:	Like oh, like mad. It’s nothing for them to go out and kill a wild hog and bring him home, and there we didn’t have to worry about taking it to a store. They had what you called a “smokehouse” outside and especially they wouldn’t hunt all through the summer. They hunt just only when it’s cold because they said—I don’t know what that has to do with it, but they’ll go out and kill a wild hog or a deer and bring it back, and they’ll clean it. And I have cleaned many chittlings. I know y’all done heard of chittlings before.





	H:	Every Christmas. [Laughter]



	C:	No, I eat them now still too, but they would kill the hog; they would set the wash pot outside. I can absolutely see myself doing this; cleaning the chittlings and then they made their own sausage. They would hang it—the ham would hang up. They would put this little smoke, like get charcoals and old wood out of the yard and build a smoke so it can smoke into the meat. We didn’t have to buy meat.

We just go in the smokehouse. When Grandma wanted to cook a ham, she’d go out there and get a ham about this big and bring it in, put it in the oven, and we had a wooden stove. We didn’t have electric at all in Quincy. It was a wooden stove, and it looked like as big as this table. A big—

	H:	A big one yeah.



	C:	Put the water, boil the water and put the biscuits in the oven, and we had like fifteen people to stay in one house in Quincy. That house I’ve mentioned to you. My aunt had like fourteen kids, but we stayed there till my grandmother passed in that house. Yeah. It’s amazing. I have a story I got and I guess continue to have a story to tell about life.

	H:	So it sounds like you didn’t really want for much when you were out there in Quincy because you had just hunting and you had the land.

	C:	You had the land.



	H:	You had what you needed.



	C:	That’s what you had. You what you needed. Like I said the only thing we went to the store to buy would be flour because you didn’t have nowhere to grow it, but you grew the corn for the meal. You had your peas and your beans, and you





would buy rice, you know, so you had it. I put it this way—we did not go to bed one night hungry. We wanted bacon the next morning; we had real bacon.

	H:	Real bacon. [Laughter] Was it swampland up there in Quincy?



	C:	Oh yeah very, very, very swampy. Oh yes. Our house had a big ol’—all this woods back here, and you can’t see nothing but water. If we go outside to feed the hogs, we had to step in puddles of water. Yeah ,we sure did.

	M:	I was wondering, what did your mother do again? I think you mentioned her getting—

	C:	Here? In Quincy?



	M:	Well let’s start in Quincy yeah.



	C:	Quincy, mother worked in a tobacco. M:	Okay so that was—

	C:	Okay. When we got here, she did laundry work at McCoy Air Force Base. M:	Okay.

	C:	She had to catch the bus to go there. It be dark when she go and dark when she come home. You know, but like I said, she was a provider. I mean a good provider because I had never cooked before. I started cooking when I was thirteen. Maybe that’s why I like cooking now. My mother told me one day, she said “When I come home, I want you to be done fried this chicken.” I did not know how to cut the chicken up. I think it was a cut here bones and whatever. I did not know how ,but I tried frying it. You know, I’d seen her what she went through frying it, but then I tried cooking this rice. The rice was like bubble gum because it was so gummy. But I ,eventually, I learned. I learned how to make





homemade biscuits just because she told me one day, I said “How did you make those biscuits?” She said “Oh you just use some Crisco.” I didn’t know. I used a whole can of little Crisco, and the biscuits come out just as greasy. I didn’t know, but now I know how to bake biscuits. Yeah.

	H:	Did you pass on some of that to your children? C:	My boys. I have three sons.

	H:	Yeah three sons.



	C:	My oldest one is forty-nine. I have a forty-three, and I have a thirty-nine. H:	Okay.

	C:	And I have five grand. My oldest grand just turned twenty-three, and my youngest one is eight. But my boys know how to cook. My forty-three year old lives in the Philippines. He did twenty-five years in the military. So he decide that he want to live in the Philippines. He got married to a Phillippine girl. I have a Philippine grandchild over there. But he’s supposed to be here in July, but yeah they know how to cook and clean. They’ll tell they wives, I’ve heard them, say “Mama taught me well. I don’t have to wait on you”. They know how to cook and clean. Yeah and like I said they all—I must say I really was a single parent with three. Never had a bit of trouble. My oldest son like I advise here in Eatonville, I would have never thought, he loved basketball, and I would never thought that we would get into politics. He been holding the seat in the council here in Eatonville for three terms now. My youngest kid lives with me in Catalina Park.

He has his Master’s degree, and he have his bachelor’s degree. He went all the way through it. Now he talking about doing his doctor degree, and he’s in





marketing. So, I can say as being a single mother—no dad around them—I haven’t had a bit of trouble with the law nor going to the school because my youngest son, after finishing school at Edgewater, he went in the reserve. He did ten years in the reserve, and he went to Iraq and Bosnia. You know I can say I’m very proud of my three sons, and everybody here in Eatonville knows them very well. They talk about how mannerable they are. He’ll probably see y’all and might say “Yes sir.” They’re just—That’s just them.

	H:	Yeah.



	C:	You know, but other than that, that’s it.



	H:	And you raised them here in Eatonville too? C:	In Eatonville.

	H:	Okay. Keep the legacy going.



	C:	In Eatonville. Yeah. They all went to Maitland Middle School. They went to Hungerford Elementary, and then they went to Edgewater. My youngest was the president of his class for years at Edgewater.

	H:	And you all went to Macedonia Church?



	C:	Yeah, we all go to Macedonia. Well my oldest son, he go to Redeeming Life, down further.

	H:	Okay.



	C:	We all went to church in Macedonia , Macedonia and Open Door. H:	Open Door.

	M:	Macedonia is one of the old churches here is that right? C:	Well it is one, but St. Laurence across the street—





	H:	Is older?



	C:	Is older. And the little house you see right here? That used to be St. Laurence Church.

	M:	Okay.



	C:	Yeah. Macedonia will be the second oldest, but St. Laurence is the first. And I know Mr. F. M. Thompson, he pastored Macedonia. Peter Laos, all of them are deceased now.

	M:	Are there any particular things you remember about some of those pastors or any memories stand out?

	C:	Well yes, Reverend F. M. Thompson lived over there on Calhoun Street. When I first met him, he was a elderly man, and he really could preach. He and Peter Laos was real good teachers and pastors, and they was very concerned about they membership. Yeah.

	H:	So just growing up in the church—because I grew up in the church too—so what was it like for you growing up in the church and having to be in church all day and doing all the services. Did you love—Did you enjoy church?

	C:	I enjoyed it, but I ain’t have no other choice. I had to be there. No other choice.



H:   That’s what I was wondering, did you had no choice for you like “Oh I’m ready to go home” or did you just love it?

C:  No, I just loved it. I couldn’t complain. Because it didn’t do no good. [Laughter] And like I said ,my church was right next to the house, next door to the church. But my mother that was just her, and you know, like I said, my oldest son, we





was at Open Door, I would put him in his walker and put him in church. You wouldn’t even know that he was in there.

	H:	Quiet kid.



C:  Just a quiet because they didn’t go—grandmother and aunties and grandmama they didn’t go for that. You had to understand what you here for. You here for a purpose. Yeah.

M:  So if I could ask, you did mention Zora Neale Hurston a few times. You said as you got older you sort of saw a relationship between her and Eatonville. Could you elaborate a little on that?

	C:	Well, I did not know at the time that she was from Eatonville till I start reading books and going to different meetings and stuff and finding out bout different things. So one day—I think it was back in the [19]80s I believe—I took a night class for Orlando Business College, and I had to do a report. And I got this book, and I start reading it. I did my report on Dusty Road. I got a A out that class, and I was the only Black in the class. They asked me “What? Where did you get that book from?” I said “Well, my understanding she was born in Eatonville, raised up in Eatonville.” But you hear little things back and forth. You don’t know which one to go on. You know so I went to class the next week, everybody in that room had one of Zora’s books, and its amaze me because I just hate that—my understanding—when she passed away, she didn’t have money. Hemenway made the money, you know, and it’s so touching to know that she’s deceased with nothing. Now I visit her grave in Ft. Pierce. Yes it’s real nice there. But a lot of people really thought that she was buried in Eatonville, but she wasn’t. A lot of





people learned that like some years ago because over the news I think, last month it showed in Sanford about some graves, and they wanna say “Zora”, but they tell me Zora got family in Sanford. But Zora tomb is not in Sanford. It’s in Ft. Pierce, but then I start reading, I start looking and listening to different ones and then really, it makes sense. It’s really something that you can almost put your hands on and say “Oh this could be nice.” You know? Yeah.

	H:	I wanna ask this. So when you read Zora’s work about life here, how did it make you feel? Did it feel like home or how did it make you feel?

	C:	It makes me feel like home with some parts and then it’s almost writing that she was almost like a prostitute when you start reading. Then it start getting a little bit better, better and better. You know but it’s amazing how she did all of this. I don’t know whether you all can remember but Oprah filmed over there. They showed that—

	H:	The movie?



	C:	Yeah,and Sunday night at my church, Macedonia, we have a writer there. She was a writer, director and everything and a producer. She did the play “Zora Up Under the Stars.” Oh man, I got it on my—if you give me your cell phone number, you all, I can send you all these pictures.

	M:	Okay.



	C:	I mean the cast was oh my God, and I’m on Facebook. I put it out on Facebook. I could not believe it because it shows where they talked about the pigs, and she talked about how the White guy will come along and almost demand them, “You need to do this and you need to do that.” That’s part of their cast, but that play





was so good. It was funny, and I enjoyed it. And it showed that at that time, and it happens here in Eatonville, they had a tree. You sit up under the tree, play cards and you drink. Look, that’s was part of it because we as Blacks didn’t have nothing else to do here in Eatonville, so they showed all of that in the play. But you would have enjoyed it. I told her she need to put it on video. Yeah but I want to forward that to you all if you give me—

	H:	Yes I’ll write it down.



	C:	Your phone number. I can go ahead on and forward it to you because you would love it.

	H:	I know I would. I would and “Zora Under the Star”, was that played here? Where was it played at? In Eatonville?

	C:	Uh huh.



	H:	Oh they played it around here. Okay.



	C:	Yeah it was playing. Yeah, okay. But that’s about it.



	H:	Well I want to say is there anything—we’re gonna conclude—but is there anything that you would like to put on the record or say in regards to your life or Eatonville?

	C:	I would like to say that I thank you all for listening to me, and I was chosen by Mason Julien. She’s here historical person here in Eatonville, and I would like to say that it just thrills me to know and someone listening to what I have to say about Eatonville. You know I’m very proud of Eatonville. I would do all I can for Eatonville. I do a lot of volunteering in Eatonville, and everybody in Eatonville





knows me as Steen, S-T-E-E-N. They do not call me Louissteen, and I’m just proud to be a citizen of Eatonville, and thank you for listening.

	H:	It’s been a pleasure. Thank you for your time. C:	Yeah.

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Sandra Romero, March 15, 2016 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 26, 2019