AAHP 450; Carter; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 450 Wendell Patrick Carter African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Vickie Oldham on November 16, 2015 33 minutes | 19 pages



Abstract: Mr. Wendell Patrick Carter speaks about his life growing up in Newtown, Florida being raised by his grandparents. He shares his experiences in school starting in Booker Elementary and graduating from Riverview High School. He outlines his path to becoming a professional football player in the NFL. He reflects on his time attending Florida State University to play football and being a player for the Los Angeles Rams. He played professionally for 10 years and coached for 5. Mr. Carter came back to the Sarasota area and talked about his service work for his home community on and off the field. He also reflects being raised by his grandparents and the importance of education he instills in the youth he interacts with even if pursuing football at the professional level.



Keywords: [Newtown, Florida; Professional football player; African American History]













































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 450 (Newtown Oral History Project) Interviewee: Wendell Patrick Carter Interviewer: Vickie Oldham

	Date: November 16, 2015 O:	Give me your name.

	C:	Wendell Patrick Carter.



	O:	Wendell Patrick Carter. Today is November 16th. Wendell Patrick Carter, what is the address where you were reared in Newtown?

	C:	1804 33rd Street which is at the corner of 33rd and Osprey Avenue. O:	And who are your parents?

	C:	My father his name is Walton Carter. He’s from actually Tallahassee, but my mother is Dorothy Phillips. It’s her maiden name. But they were married and they had me. They didn’t stay together very long and the majority of my adolescence, my grandparents raised me.

	O:	And who are your grandparents?



	C:	Jewel and Maggie Phillips and that’s where they resided at 1804 33rd Street.



	O:	Jewel and Maggie Phillips certainly known in the community. What do you remember they did? How did they participate in the community church-wise? Where did you all go to church?

	C:	We went to church at Bethel C.M.E. My grandfather was an usher there as well as my grandmother, she was one of the missionaries that dressed up in white on first Sundays.

	O:	And I remember in your family was Solomon’s grocery store. I remember just going there and getting snacks and two-for-a-penny cookies and little candy and everything. I don’t know that people will realize that this was in your family, this store.





	C:	Well yes it was actually Henry Solomon which is actually my grandmother’s uncle. But he was the proprietor of the place and by the time I came along in the [19]60s though. I think he died thereabouts right when I was born. So I don’t really remember him but I remember “Birdie” is what we called her, Ms. Solomon, which is what a lot of other people call her. But actually as a matter of fact, she was my babysitter so that’s how I know a lot of people in the community because she would keep me until a lot of the older kids would come through there and that’s how I would know a lot of the older kids coming up.

	O:	Tell me about the sort of work that your mom did here.



	C:	My mother taught school and she also worked for HRS, is what Children and Services at that time.

	O:	Exactly.



	C:	Yeah, she was a high school teacher at one time. Then elementary is when she retired, sixth grade teacher.

	O:	What about the kind of work your grandparents did?



	C:	My grandfather, man that man was a jack-of-trades. He was the guy that people would call ten o’clock at night and if they had an issue with their plumbing, he would get up out of his bed and go and help them. He was a very generous, very patient, very kind man. I could always think about all the times he would go and do that and never complain not one time. My grandmother, what I do recall, she worked for some of the people out on the beach, so like she was their maid or something along that line.

	O:	Did she ever take you to work?





	C:	I’m sure she probably did but I don’t recall. I don’t recall that.



	O:	Your memories of growing up as a little boy, kind of take me through what you remember about Newtown.

	C:	Newtown, it was a great place. Everyone knew everyone and you could just out, especially as a youth in the summers, we can go outside and play all day and not be concerned with some of the things that go on today. You know kids getting taken or molested or something. But I didn’t see any of those kinds of issues growing up. It was a really fun place to grow.

	O:	What did y’all play?



	C:	[Laughter] We’d make up our own games, very creative. But a lot of times we played football in the street, or dodgeball; we might even plan stickball, baseball. We were very creative, played football with a pinecone.

	O:	Really?



	C:	Yeah. If we couldn’t find a ball, we’d play football with a pinecone. We were very creative.

	O:	Do you remember some of the young men that grew up around you in your neighborhood that played in the streets with you?

	C:	With me? Marvin Peterson, we called him “Flipper,” Arthur Larkins, Melvin Smith, which he’s not here, rest in peace, John Smith, he’s not here rest in peace, “Shorty” Robert Smith. It was a lot of guys. It was a lot of people.

	O:	And young ladies?



	C:	No we didn’t really—I don’t think we let girls play with us. [Laughter] O:	Really?





	C:	Not during that time. Especially we were pretty violent out there on that— O:	On the street playing ball.

	C:	Yes, yes. I don’t think it was a nice place for young ladies to be at. O:	Okay where did you go to school?

	C:	Went to, from kindergarten through fifth grade, I went to Booker Elementary, which is Booker North we called it—right by your grandmother’s house, right across the street. And actually, sixth grade and seventh grade, I moved away. I lived with my father who was in the military and lived in Hawaii for sixth grade and seventh grade. Then I came back here and middle school I went to Sarasota Junior High in eighth and ninth grade and then I went to Riverview High School.

	O:	Patrick you are certainly able to adapt because of moving around like that in schools. Usually when you go to junior high and middle school and high, you’re with a certain group of people that you follow on through but how did that moving around help you?

	C:	Well especially going to Sarasota Junior High, I typically went to school with kids that weren’t in my neighborhood. And by the time I got to high school, what it allowed me to do was I knew more people in the city. Whereas a guy might be going to high school may not know some of the same people that I know because they didn’t go to the same junior high school. So I knew quite a few more people.

	O:	Who were your greatest influences?



	C:	I would actually have to say my grandparents. Taking me in as a baby and raising, obviously my mother was in my life but the majority of it was my





grandparents, just their influence on me and the stuff they instilled as far as I could be anything I wanted to be if I put my mind to it. And also the fact of getting me prepared to deal with—you know living in Newtown you’re really kind of around Blacks but they also instilled in me about life, life skills, when you’re in the job or the workforce, you might have a peer but if he’s White, you’re gonna have to be twice as good as he is in order to keep his job. But I wish they were lying but all of those things were actually true. You know you had to be twice as good in order just to be recognized.

	O:	Did you know that you were going to—was it your goal to go through athletics like you did and play for the NFL? I mean how did all of that start?

	C:	Well that’s a good question. It started when I was young. I want to say I was about five or six, four or five. The older guys in the neighborhood, my neighbor across the street, his name was Lawrence Jordan, and he had some guys on the next street over, Tim Chestnut, Stanley Chestnut. I looked up to all those guys and all those guys would play in the streets and so they let me be a part of them. Whereas all I did was probably retrieve their errant balls but as a five-year-old that was pretty cool for me to be able to be a participant in that. But at the same time, as I got older, they went to Riverview. Well in my mind, I’m like, “Oh I’ve going to Riverview, I’m gonna be just like them.” That was always something I aspired to do. Everything else just kind of just happened to fall into place or you know by the blessings of God. And I can honestly tell you that I wish I could say this was me, but this was all God. This was God’s divine plan.

	O:	So now when did you start playing football in school?





	C:	[Laughter] That’s a funny one too. My first year I think I played I was nine and we were playing at Redskins and they had a weight limit then and I think if I remember correctly it was a hundred ten pounds. Well I was always a big guy.

So you play nine, ten, and eleven. So you can be eleven and play in this particular group but you’d have to weigh a hundred ten pounds. Well I had trouble at nine maintaining a hundred ten pounds. So it was my first year playing and I wasn’t a very good player but our team won.

	O:	The championship?



	C:	Yes. We won the Redskin’s championship, Comanche. Had a very good team. O:	And who was working with you coaching-wise?

	C:	Then Mr. Watts was one of the coaches then. O:	Earl Watts?

	C:	Yes. He was one of the coaches then. But that was really the only year I really played here young because, like I said, before I moved away sixth grade, seventh grade.

	O:	Did you play in Hawaii?



	C:	I played football one year there. The big sport over there was baseball. So I participated in baseball there. And it was pretty good but once I got back here, I mean they had baseball but baseball was out by Babe Ruth and that was kinda difficult being here to get there with my mother working every day. So I just participated in the sports everybody else was playing, football and basketball.

And so I was allowed to do that at the rec which is to me a saving grace for a lot of us kids ‘cause that’s where we all got an opportunity and compete and play





basketball on that outside court back in the day. There was nothing like that. That’s a great memory as well. That basketball court outside.

	O:	I’m glad you mentioned Robert Taylor Community Center because, yes, there were a lot of activities that kept kids doing the right things. Talk more about that and who was over there running things.

	C:	Well Carl East was actually running it but a guy I don’t think I’ve given enough credit to that was really instrumental was Larry Chestnut. Larry was hard but fair. He was fair in a sense of wanting me to—

	O:	Hold a second. [Break in Recording]

	O:	Okay go ahead, Larry Chestnut.



	C:	Yeah. Larry was hard but he was fair because he was really tough on us but— O:	What do you mean tough?

	C:	When I say tough, you know wanted us to do the right thing, stand in line. You know typically when you go to the rec, you kinda getting away from your parents so you can kinda let your hair down a little bit. Well he didn’t really allow us to do that. [Laughter] He kinda kept us in line but he was really instrumental in a lot of us kids going the right way.

	O:	So then you played basketball and you could stay out a little late I’m sure. C:	Unh-uh.

	O:	Oh no?



	C:	Unh-uh. I’m thankful for that too. O:	Tell me about that.





		C:	Well no. I had—what do you call it? When you got to be home by a certain time? [Voice]:	Curfew.

	C:	Curfew. There we go, I couldn’t think of that word. But yeah, I had curfew and I made sure I had—

	O:	In your grandparents’ home?



	C:	Both, because I stayed with my mother as well some. But yes in both aspects; yeah, there was a curfew, and I had to adhere to it.

	O:	What about grades?



	C:	You know I’ll say it this way: my grades were okay, but looking back I wish I could have pushed myself even harder. I think my mother was sufficient with us getting B’s and C’s and that’s pretty much what I got. I did just enough to get by to keep her off.

	O:	[Laughter] From complaining right.



	C:	So I mean in retrospect looking back, I could have been a much better student. O:	Okay so when did you really start pushing yourself athletically pushing your body,

following the conditioning and lifting, starting along that road?



	C:	I believe it came along right about in high school where Coach John Sprig and Jim Moore, both they were pushing instilling in us, “If you want to play on the next level these are some of the things—“matter of fact, we also had a coach, I his name is Bob Smithers, it’s his name. And he was really hard and in retrospect he just wanted me to be the best that I could be. But I kinda rebelled a little bit because he was into weightlifting and I never really wanted to do the weightlifting





because I never wanted to be bulky. I just wanted to be fit but not bulky. You know the difference?

	O:	I guess.



	C:	There’s a difference in fit and bulky. O:	What’s the difference?

	C:	Bulky is the guys with the big—I never wanted to be the big muscular guy. I just wanted to be fit.

	O:	Tight.



	C:	Yes.



	O:	Cut.



	C:	Yes. That’s it.



	O:	But it doesn’t sound like, Patrick, that you really had aspirations on playing professional football in high school yet.

	C:	Oh no, no, no don’t get me wrong. Yeah I wanted to play but that was something that was instilled in me in at home. “Yeah you may be able to play but you can blow your knee out and you want to make sure you have something to fall back on.” And that was why obviously I did well enough in high school as well as in college to graduate. ‘Cause that was one of the things, that was the big thing my grandmother made me promise before she died, that I graduated from college.

She was like, “Well they getting that football out of you, you better get something out of them. So you promise me you gonna graduate.” “Yes ma’am I will.” And so I had to actually go back. I was actually playing professional football but I had to go back to two off-seasons to finish and I did.





	O:	So how did you all do as a team when you played for Riverview?



	C:	Let’s just say this way. I thought we should have been better. Overall we underachieved. We had a lot of talented individuals but I don’t think collectively we did on the field as well as we should have.

	O:		Like in eleventh grade, twelfth grade you were deciding about college. Where did you choose to go?

	C:	Well I ended up at Florida State. Right about, I think tenth, eleventh grade, I was really in love with Nebraska. Nebraska was a team I truly admired. But as time went I didn’t realize I was gonna be as highly recruited as I ended up because my junior year, it was a guy in front of me, Glenn Moyer, he was a senior. He was one of the top prospects in the nation. And everyone came down here to see him. Well guess what, once they saw him, they saw me. And so I was pretty much a hot commodity the following year.

	O:	And tell us, for those us who didn’t read all the articles about you. What was it that made the recruiters—besides them just coming down to see the top recruiter, there had to be something about you that really, really, stood out. What was it?

	C:	I don’t know if there was something because we didn’t really throw the ball a lot. We ran so maybe my blocking. I really think it was based on potential because I was 6’4”, 6’3” two hundred thirty pounds and I could run pretty fast back then. So a lot of times when they recruit, especially when it comes to recruiting, they do a lot of it based on potential because they can see, “Well we can make this guy.”

	O:	They can train you to become—





	C:	Exactly. Yes.



	O:	I see and you went to Florida State University. C:	Yes ma’am.

	O:	Tell me about your experiences playing on that team for Bobby Bowden, right?



	C:	Yeah for Bobby Bowden. That was great. It was a great experience but I have to share one of my greatest moments in my life happened my freshman year at Florida State. I want to back up a year. My senior year in high school I’m sitting watching a football game and my grandmother, she’s walking by and I say, “Hey grandma! That’s gonna be me next year.” And she’s like [sucking his teeth] “Yeah all right baby.” And kept on going. Well speed that up a year. I forgot who we played. I had a really good game as a freshman. And she calls me the next day and she was like, “Yeah we saw you on tv and all my friends they was just calling.” You could hear how proud she was and that was very meaningful to me that she was very proud of that. I had made her proud. So that was very meaningful.

	O:	Wow so tell me more about playing for Florida State.



	C:	Well it was just a great opportunity. And the reason why I chose them was the opportunity for me to be able to play. I could walk in and play. I saw, where if I did what I needed to do, that I’d be able to play as a freshman. I almost didn’t go to Florida State though. Coach Ward is the reason why I’m at Florida State.

	O:	Why do you say that?



	C:	Because, if anyone knows the recruiting process, it can get really long and tiresome and bothersome and I had taken—all my trips I had went to Tennessee,





North Carolina, Miami, Georgia and Florida State was my last trip. I was just tired. And I wasn’t even taking a trip to Florida State. I had committed to Georgia and I was gonna go to Georgia.

	O:	University of Georgia?



	C:	Um-hm and I was gonna go there. And Coach Ward came to me and said, “Well you know Florida State’s been recruiting you this whole process. He said the least you could do is go up there and take a trip.” I was like all right. Well obviously I took it and it worked out.

	O:	And signed with them and play what sort of seasons? Great seasons?



	C:	Yeah really good. My senior year was my best year. We finished 11-1, lost to Miami, who ended up being the eventual national champs. It was a game we should have won but they came back. They beat us. Let’s just say, I like to say it this way. The Florida State I left was not the Florida State I came. So I feel like I was responsible for helping us propel.

	O:	Get on the map.



	C:	Yeah propel to that next level. But at that time too we had quite a few people from Sarasota on the team too.

	O:	Who?



	C:	Herb Gainer, Roosevelt Snipes was there. Well he was Bradenton, his name was Prince Matt. He was from Bradenton and then we had my high school teammate, Derek Schmidt, he was a kicker. He also went to Florida State as well. My roommate Tracy Sanders which he’s out of Palmetto. He was there too.





	O:	And what kind of things did you learn Patrick, not so much about being a football player but the lessons that you learned that took you through life. You know good life lessons, anything?

	C:	Wow there was a lot.



	O:	[Laughter] One thing stand out?



	C:	Well I’m one of those people, I’m a stickler for time. I’ll say it that way. I don’t like waiting on anyone and I don’t like having anyone wait on me. But at the same time I think it’s a good discipline to have. It’s because it shows how serious you are. Like if it’s a job interview, Imma be there—I would hope everyone would be there early instead of showing up right on the anticipated time. I don’t know to me that’s one of the things that sticks out.

	O:	So they were stickers for— C:	Oh yes. Oh yeah.

	O:	Everything about time. [Snapping fingers]

	C:	That’s correct and that carried over to the next level too. Especially in professional sports.

[Pausing video tape]



	O:	We just got two more questions: I got to find out about life in the NFL and then you had some clinics here for little kids.

	C:	Mmhm that was while played. O:	To groom them.

	C:	Well it’s not to groom them, it was more of a—





	O:	Why do you do those? C:	Why? Why did I do it?

	O:	Yeah why do you have those coaches?



	C:	It was giving back. It was giving back to the community. [Replacing camera memory card]

	O:	And then looking back at Newtown from where you’ve come to now looking back, what can be done. What needs to be done to change it. You can come in.

[Walter Gilbert enters]



	C:	Ow that’s hard. You will never be able to get it back to where it was. O:	I don’t think so either—Hi Mr. Gilbert.

	G:	Good.



	O:	Walter Gilbert.



	C:	I’m very aware of that young man. How you doing brother? G:	What’s up junior?

[Laughter]



	C:	I’ll take that from you. I’ll take that from you.



	O:	These guys. So we can’t go back to what it was but how can we change it? C:	I haven’t been here long enough to make that—

	O:	To make that assessment.



	C:	To make an assessment on that. I don’t think that’s a fair assessment coming from me.

	O:	Okay.



	C:	I’ve been gone twenty-seven years.





	O:	Why you came back to the area then?



	C:	Great area to live. I mean you can’t beat the weather, cost of living. It’s a lot cheaper than California, which I like.

	O:	Right so you’re gonna talk about your NFL experience and greatest memory, giving back to kids, why you came back to the area.

	C:	Okay. [Changing camera]

	O:	Okay so is a fair question…When you come back driving through the neighborhood what do you think?

	C:	Well obviously it’s changed. It’s not the same any longer. When I was growing up there were families. We don’t really have the same type of families. You don’t see that anymore. You see a lot of younger mothers.

[Video camera working again]



	O:	So share some NFL experiences: stories, greatest memory. Whatever you want to share about the teams you played for.

	C:	Unfortunately, I didn’t play on any great—well my second year in the league I played for the—goes to show how old I am—the Los Angeles Rams. That was when the Rams were in LA, Los Angeles. But they’ve since moved to St. Louis. But my second year with them, we went to the NFC championship game. We lost to the ‘49ers. And that’s the closest I ever been to the play offs. To the super bowl.

	O:	What was that like? I’m not ever gonna have that experience of playing under those big lights to all of those crowds and all of that. What did that feel like?





	C:	Oh it was obviously a great feeling especially if anyone plays football. Especially if you get to the professional level. I mean everyone aspires to win a super bowl. And obviously that was my closest moment I would have ever gotten to that opportunity ever happening.

	O:	What do you tell kids that you might talk to who look up to you and want to hear from you about the NFL? What do you tell them? I know you’ve had some training summer camps for kids.

	C:	Well the biggest thing is, if it happens, I tell them just like I spoke to you earlier.



You have to have a plan B. There are a lot of guys that want to play on a professional level but everyone doesn’t get that opportunity. So you have to have a backup plan and that’s why I aspire or I always instill in the young kids I talk to is their academics are important. Because you have to at least get a high school diploma. College degree is also almost being equivalent of a high school diploma in some aspects now. But I just stress getting education.

	O:	Getting as much as you can. Okay now you came after a career, how many years did you spend?

	C:	In the NFL?



	O:	Uh-huh.



	C:	I played for ten and then I coached another five, so it’s fifteen. O:	So you came back to this area. Why?

	C:	Well it’s a great place to live. I have relatives here and I always knew I’d come back and retire here. Thought I would be a little older but it happened sooner





than I anticipated. But this is a great area to live. Sarasota used to be such a well-kept secret but now everyone knows about it.

	O:	And when you drive through your old neighborhood, Newtown, what do you see?



What do you think?



	C:	Well you know I still some of my old—like Ms. Curry across the street there. And you know I still see some of my old neighbors but obviously it’s not quite the same neighborhood or community it once was.

	O:	You said there were more families.



	C:	Yeah it seemed to be. Now I don’t live in Newtown now but I mean this is just a guess coming from me but it doesn’t look the same due to the fact we don’t have the same families in which we used to have growing up now. It’s a lot of younger parents then my generation.

	O:	What do you think it’s gonna take to attract young people like yourself back to this area so that we can draw off the talent that they have and hopefully they’ll become leaders in the community. What is it gonna take? What does Newtown have to do? What does Sarasota have to do to attract them?

	C:	Jobs. I mean obviously the bigger the city, the better the opportunity is to have a nice decent paying job and I’m sure there are some here in Sarasota but it’s limited and obviously you have a few more people competing for the same amount of jobs. And that would be the first thing that comes to my mind because upon graduating from college with a degree you want to go obviously where it’s easiest to find a job. I would think.

	O:	Exactly. Anything you would like to add?





C:   No but I just commend you for what you’re doing. I love Newtown and I think this is great project and what you’re putting together. And I thank you for allowing me to be a part of it.

O: Thank you Patrick. [End of first recording]

	O:	Okay Patrick. Tell me about some of the camps that you held for kids in the Newtown community.

	C:	Yeah I think after my rookie year because Tim Johnson, who’s also from— actually he’s from Newtown Estates. But I came him a call and asked him what he thought about a camp for kids in the community. And he agreed and so between the two of us, I know we did it about seven, eight years. We’d do it every off-season, we’ve come right down to the rec to allow everyone from the community to come in and we just give a free camp. Just to show the kids of the community that you can make it if you know, if I made it. I’m not different than you. We’d come out, talk to them. You know give them some tips, pointers, and also some tips and pointers on life and it was great, just a great opportunity to give back to the neighborhood.

	O:	About how many kids every year average? C:	About a hundred.

[Voice]: More than that.



	C:	It was more than that? Two hundred? [Voice]: Two or three.

	C:	Let’s say three.





	O:	And how did that make you feel?



	C:	Well it was a good feeling just for the simple fact of being able to give back and being able to have it held in our community because several times people wanted to take it out to Riverview or take it to Sarasota High. And I was against doing that because it was for our community and I’m glad that we did it for as long as we did.

	O:	Great and we thank you so much for doing that. Anything you’d like to add about anything?

	C:	No I think I’ve covered pretty much everything. I’m sure I’ll be riding down the street and think of something but right now I’m good.

	O:	All right thank you. If you do, then call me up. I’ll get it with my audio. [End of Interview]





	Final edit by:	Sandra Romero November 4, 2020