AAHP 551A; Austin, 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 551A Sharon Austin African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Adreanne Martinez on February 21, 2018 26 minutes | 16 pages



Abstract: Dr. Sharon Austin is the director of the African American studies program at the University of Florida. In this interview, Dr. Austin talks about the progress that the University has made with regard to racism and justice, but also how there is still work to do, especially given the little amount of Black faculty at the University, and the fact that she is the first Black woman to receive a Political Science degree.





Keywords: [African American History Program, University of Florida, Director, Institute of Black Culture, IBC, La Casita, Black Affairs]























































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 551A

Interviewee: Sharon Austin Interviewer: Adrienne Martinez

Date of Interview: February 21, 2018





	M:	Hello, this is Adrienne Martinez, and I’m with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. I am here in Walker Hall with Dr. Sharon Austin. And Dr. Austin, could you tell me a little bit about yourself?

	A:	I’m originally from the city of Memphis. I went to school at the University of Tennessee at Knoxville, and I earned a doctorate in political science. I’ve been teaching here at UF since 2001, and I’ve been the director of the African American studies program since 2011.

	M:	Could you tell me what you do as head of the African American studies program?



	A:	I assign courses, I assign teaching assignments, I interact with majors, I advise undergraduate majors and minors. I attend meetings, I recruit students, I teach courses. I also teach a study abroad class in Paris every spring break, so I do all of the administrative work, but I also do some teaching.

	M:	Awesome. Could you tell me a little bit about the African American studies program?

	A:	The program has been here since 1969. We’ll be celebrating our fiftieth anniversary in 2019. The first director was Dr. Ronald Foreman, he served from 1970 to 2000. And then again, I started in 2011. The program started offering a minor in 2006, and a major in 2014. The major currently has approximately 120 students, there are approximately twenty-two students in the minor. We currently





have the largest number of African American studies majors in the country, and we’re now in the process of looking into a proposal for a graduate program.

	M:	Awesome. So I understand that the African American studies program is a program and not a department. Could you tell me what the difference is between a program and a department?

	A:	The difference is that a program does not have the ability to hire a faculty in 100 percent appointments, unless they’re lecturers or unless it’s someone like me, who’s an administrator in an administrative position. We have to either hire people in joint appointments, or they have to have their mostly their primary appointment in another unit, because we don’t have the ability to grant tenure or promotions, so that’s probably the biggest disadvantage that we face. A department has the ability to grant tenure or promotion, a department gets a lot more respect, and I think just a department just has more autonomy in terms of decision making. Currently, we are in the position where we are always having to be mindful of what other people want, especially for our joint appointment faculty, you can’t ever really make assignments unless we get someone else’s permission. And so, a department allows you to be able to be independent and to make decisions without having to really consult with people outside of your department.

	M:	Is there a reason that UF doesn’t have an African American studies department yet?





	A:	It’s something that we’re working on now. I think when the program was first created in the 1960s, this was during the time in which a lot of Black studies programs and departments were being created during the height of the Civil Rights and Black Power Movements. At the time, a request was made for there to be a department, but the administration at the time didn’t agree with that request, so therefore it was made into a program. Over the years, there’ve been a number of reasons as to why there’s not been a department. I think the main reason has been the lack of support from the administration, the turnover among directors after Dr. Foreman’s retirement in 2000. There were a number of different directors who only served between one to three years. So I think those are pretty much the primary reasons for it, but we are now in the process of submitting a proposal so that we could become a center, which is pretty much the same thing as a department, which would give us all the benefits of being a department.

	M:	Okay. So you said that you got involved with the University of Florida in 2001, and we added the major for African American studies in 2014. Could you tell me a little bit about how that came to be, describing the incident?

	A:	As far as, again, the major approved? M:	Yes.

	A:	Previous directors had tried to get a major for many years, I think, from what they’ve told me, from at least as early as 2007. But one problem was just the turnover among administration, in the sense that the directors would only serve





for one to three years, and usually they would accept job offers at other universities. And each time there was a new director, that person would pretty much have to start the proposal process all over again. And so that was probably the biggest thing that caused the delay. Also, it’s very difficult to get a major approved. There’s a very extensive form that needs to be filled out, information has to be gathered that has to be included in that form, and one problem based on what I’ve heard before I became director is that this is something that can be very time consuming, and no one really wanted to do it, because no one really had the time. Also because so many of the faculty over the years in the program have been untenured, that they couldn’t take time away from their research and teaching to concentrate on filling out the form to get the major done. And then the director had so many other things to do, that they couldn’t really devote a lot of time to it either. So that was probably the biggest challenge. And then when I became director in 2011 that was the main goal that I had, was to get the form for the major filled out, because I’d heard all these stories about previous directors and what they had tried to do. And so I was determined to do that, and also by this time, I had a really good relationship with my associate dean who was David Pharies, and later with the current associate dean who is Mary Watt. Later, Dave Richardson became dean, and he has been very supportive of our program and also of our major. So, I was able to work with David Pharies, and also Bernard Mair who no longer works here, who is in the provost office. He gave me a lot of helpful information as well, and told me exactly how to fill out the form. Because what a lot of people don’t understand is that faculty who become administrators





don’t really know very much about the different forms and the way that they need to be filled out, and so they fill out these forms, but then they are later told that the form has not been filled out correctly. So the thing with me is that I pretty much had several different meetings with them just to find out if I was filling out the form correctly. And then finally, I was able to submit it, and it was finally able to get approved, which is almost a year-long process, even getting it approved, because it has to go through several different levels. And finally it was finally approved.

	M:	Oh okay. As director of the African American studies program, could you describe race relations on campus from since you’ve been here to now?

	A:	Um-hm. I think race relations on campus are pretty much similar to race relations on any college campus, especially on any southern college campus. I wouldn’t say that they’re any better, or that they’re any worse. I think we’re dealing with some of the same problems now that we were dealing with when I first came in 2011 with students feeling that they’re being disrespected and insulted sometimes when they live on campus, sometimes in the larger Gainesville community; students feeling isolated, especially minority students, depending on what they major in, sometimes being the only student of color, or one of few in their classes. And then also, I’ve heard about the different challenges in student government, and many of the students, even recently, have said that they didn’t really feel that minority students were really welcome, or the voices of minority students weren’t welcome. So these are the same types of challenges that go on on every college campus with anonymous racist flyers, which we even have





received in our office. Students saying that they’ve been walking around campus, especially at night, being called names. It’s the same type of bullying that goes on everywhere.

	M:	So, from Florida to like Memphis, it’s basically that same kind of atmosphere?



	A:	I think it’s the same, but based on my experience growing up in Tennessee, I think Tennessee is much worse, because at least here in Florida, people tend to be a little bit more cordial, a little bit more civil. But when I went to school at the University of Tennessee, in east Tennessee, it was just a blatantly racist environment and these people didn’t really try to hide their views, so.

	M:	Do you have any personal experiences, or have you seen any experiences, with racial tensions on campus?

	A:	I have. I had an experience just this past April where a man walked into our office and confronted me and my assistant in the office, and we had to call the police.

So that probably is the worst thing that has ever happened to me personally, but I also have a colleague who teaches here who said that he was, at the time, a graduate student who was walking down the street on University Avenue, and someone called him the ‘n’ word. And then I’ve had several students over the years come to me and tell me various things that’ve happened to them. A few years ago, we had an African American female student came to me. She was a political science major, and she was walking with a friend one night on 13th, near one of the fraternity houses, and a student said something. Something happened, and the student just called her all kinds of like, racist and sexist slurs,





and just verbally abused her, and the student was never punished. So I can give you several examples of things that students have told me over the years, but I think that the main problem is that the people who conduct themselves inappropriately are never punished.

	M:	Yeah, I definitely agree with that. A:	Yeah.

	M:	So people mention a lot that UF is a diverse campus, and I wanna know how that makes you feel, and also where do you think UF actually falls on the diversity status.

	A:	Based on my experiences as both a student and a professor, UF is more diverse than the school where I have attended as a student and also where I’ve taught over the years. I’ve taught at the University of Missouri, Colombia for seven years before I came here, and it was not nearly as diverse as UF. It was mostly just a Black-White campus, and then there was some other international students and other students of color, but there weren’t very many, but it was just a White, a very hostile campus. And at the University of Tennessee, as I mentioned, it was a very hostile campus. And my undergraduate institution, which was a small, private, liberal arts college in Memphis called Christian Brothers College, was also a very racially polarized campus. And then I also have a masters from the University of Memphis; it was also a racially polarized campus. So, I would say that the environment here, I mean I’m sure people have their problems and as I mentioned, the same problems happened here and happened everywhere, but I





mean I would say that UF is a more pleasant environment, and Florida is a more pleasant place to live and work than some other southern communities — and even northern communities, where I’ve worked.

	M:	So, the past couple years that you’ve been here, do you feel that the university has been efficient in fulfilling the needs of Black and minority students?

	A:	Has it been efficient? No, I wouldn’t say that it has been. I think the university has made an effort. As a matter of fact, I’ve seen more efforts here at Florida than I have at any of the other schools where I’ve taught, or where I’ve attended as a student. But have they been effective? I think that’s debatable. I think you should ask the students that. But based on what I’ve seen, in some ways, they have been, and in some ways they haven’t.

	M:	Okay. So do you have any involvement with the Institute of Black Culture? A:	I do.

	M:	Could you tell me a little bit about how you first learned about the IBC and its history?

	A:	Um-hm. I first learned about the IBC when I started working here, and I’ve been friends with many of the directors and I’m now on the project team that’s responsible for rebuilding the IBC and also La Casita. I’ve worked with the members of multicultural diversity affairs for years. I first learned about the IBC when I came here as a professor, and then I started reading about it from my classes. I know that it was founded in the 1970s as a result of a lot of the different tensions on campus. Minority students felt isolated, and this was





happening not just here, but on college campuses around the nation. Institutes for black culture and other institutes for ethnic cultures were being developed as way to address the needs of minority students who felt isolated.

	M:	Okay. What would you say the role is of having a Black cultural center on campus?

	A:	I think the main role is to give students a safe space. In particular, Black students, but all students who want to take advantage of the resources there, giving them a place where they can go to talk about issues of concern to them. Giving them a place to socialize. Because they’re on a predominately White campus, and because they are so isolated, giving them a place where they can just go, and see other people who look like them. And that’s something that is very important for students of color, because I know when I was in college, I didn’t have anything like that. It was just, you know, me and a few Black students at my college, and then later in grad school. The further I went in my education, the less number of Black students I saw. And by the time I had reached the University of Tennessee and I was pursuing my doctorate, I was the only Black student in the entire Ph.D. program. And I was the first Black woman to ever earn a doctorate in poly-sci. To my knowledge, since then, there has only been one other. So that tells you just how isolated I was. So I wish I could have had some type of IBC or something, some place to go, but I didn’t have anything, I just had to learn how to cope with things and not let things get to me.

	M:	That’s really impressive that you’re the first Black woman—





	A:	Yeah, well.



	M:	I’m a little star-struck right now!



	A:	It’s impressive, but it’s sad [Laughter]



	M:	Yeah. So you mentioned the multicultural and diversity affairs center. I understand right now, as the IBC is getting renovated, that’s acting as the substitute for the IBC. Could you tell me the differences between Black students having the actual IBC and being in the multicultural and diversity affairs center?

	A:	Well I don’t really know very much about the Black Affairs department, but I’ve been there, and I know that their offices have the Office of Hispanic-Latino cultures, the Black Affairs, and then I think they have Asian Pacific Islander Affairs, then I think they have something on GLBTQ, and they have offices, but it’s not the same as an IBC, because it’s a place where students can go and they can meet. But first of all, it’s a much smaller place, and then also students don’t have privacy. And that’s something that’s very important for students, is for them to have a place where they can just go and they can just talk, and they don’t feel that they’re being watched. And so, with the way that that structure is designed, I don’t think that it’s the kind of welcoming kind of place that students would find in an IBC or La Casita.

	M:	So my research has to do with the IBC, and since it’s renovation I am unfortunately unable to go to it and ask more questions about it. Could you describe to me the resources that the IBC has, and everything that it offers students?





	A:	The IBC, as it used to exist, and I’m sure as it’s going to exist when we rebuild it, I used it a lot, because even though it’s a place that’s most as I mentioned, a safe space for students and a place for them to socialize, the students would go there and they would socialize. They watched TV, they watched music videos, they could sit, they could talk, and they could eat. But they also did a lot of other things, they had a food for thought series, and it was sort of like a luncheon series, and they would have a speaker to talk about something of relevance in the African American community. I used to go there to recruit students from my African Americans in Paris class. I even have taught classes at the IBC because they have a conference room. When the African American studies program has its meeting with its affiliates and its advisors, we would have them in the IBC. My colleague who teaches a class in Ghana did some recruitment at the IBC. So it was a place that we could go to where we wanted to reach out to Black students to advertise things to them. They also used to have, occasionally, like just meetings where you could have a conversation with Black faculty and staff, and that was something that also was really helpful. So it was a support system, but it wasn’t just a place for them to socialize, it had an academic component to it as well.

M:  Okay. So I understand the Institute of Black Culture is undergoing renovation, and there’s plans of merging it with La Casita. Could you tell me how you feel about that renovation?

A:  Well no, that’s what originally I think the students were concerned, that the two would be merged together. And that’s why the students last summer had protest





to make sure that that didn’t happen, because they had the two buildings and there was a space in the back that was going to be connected, and the students felt that the two should be kept separate. So, and I totally agree with the students on that, because they should be kept separate for all the reasons that many of the student activists pointed out last summer. One of the students, I think he said it was from Venezuela, but anyway he said that at La Casita he talked about just the challenges that he faced as an undocumented student who didn’t get any financial aid, and he talked about the fact that his mother was living in a trailer, she had given up her apartment just so that she could have the money to pay for him to go to college here. And he was saying that a lot of the students on campus are undocumented, and they could come to La Casita and they could feel comfortable admitting that they were undocumented, and also talking about the different experiences, and the unique experiences that they had that other students didn’t have. So he was saying that that’s why La Casita was important. One of the things I also want to point out, is even though the two building were separate, and they’re gonna remain separate, they also often times collaborate. Because I’ve gone to La Casita to recruit students from my class. I’ve gone there to give presentations, to provide information, I’ve been invited there to speak, so the students collaborate with each other a lot, but they just wanted their separate spaces, and I understood why they did, and I agree that they should have been kept separate, and they will be.





	M:	So throughout the late 1900s, the IBC helped build community among Black students as that safe space. I was wondering, what effect does its renovation have on Black students right now?

	A:	Well I think in a way, it has a positive impact, because I’ve been attending the meetings, and if I can’t attend I’ve been participating just by computer, and students have had input. I think that was the concern with the students who were protesting last summer, they felt that things were happening, and they were not being given any input. And so, I think with the way things are going now, students have an opportunity to attend those meetings. They have public meetings that are open and students have been able to explain what types of design they wanted, how they wanted each of the buildings to look, what they wanted each of the buildings to contain, and so they have had full input. So it’s not a case in which someone like me who’s a faculty member is telling someone else that the IBC should look like this, knowing that it’s not a place where I’m gonna hang out. I mean, I go there occasionally if I’m invited, but students have full input. So, as a result of that, I think I’m impressed with the way the plans are coming along, because their voices are being heard.

	M:	Okay. So earlier in this interview, you mentioned some low points regarding race relations. Do you have any high points that you could share with me?

A:  I’d say high points have happened during times of crisis, like when I first came here, it was like weeks before the September 11 terrorist attacks, and students all came together to grieve, and also just to mourn just the losses of the people whose lives were lost. And then also just recently with the school shooting in





south Florida, students have come together, have mobilized. I’ve seen students come together to march for take back the night. I’ve seen various types of things for pride awareness. I’ve seen the reaction when the person came who was wearing the swastika, and the students confronted him in Turlington [Laughter]. They were like, “You gotta get outta here with that!” [Laughter] And even myself, when I had the incident with the men who walked into our office and confronted us, and he was saying these racist, crazy things, we got all kinds of support from people all over campus, even people that we didn’t know, all over the community who wrote letters to us, and who called us, and emailed us, to say kind words, and so I think that was something also that was a high point.

	M:	That’s really nice. So what are actions that you suggest the university could do to build more community among Black students?

	A:	Well I think that they’re taking some steps in the right direction, but I think that the administration should interact more with predominantly African American student groups, because I notice that most of the Black students that I’ve taught have been active in some type of group. And so, just making sure that they interact with them, attend their meetings, and get their input.

	M:	Oh okay. And are there any other reflections about diversity, the IBC, race relations, or African American studies that you would like to add?

	A:	I’d like to add that in my college, in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, I’m chairing the Diversity Steering Committee, and our dean has been very much committed to diversifying the faculty and staff. Since last year, we’ve had a





number of meetings, and every department in the college there’s a diversity liaison, and that person is designed to try to advise search committees about the best ways to advertise positions with the intention of recruiting more professors and staff members of color, and so even though we just started working last year, and we haven’t really seen very many results, we should see some results this year. I think that’s gonna result in a diversification of the faculty and staff, and that’s also something that’s important if you talk about the experience of minority students, they need more minority faculty. I’ve been very happy to work with our dean, and our associate dean, Mary Watt, on that.

	M:	Do you have any idea what the ratio for like, Black students-Black faculty is right now?

	A:	It’s very low. As far as in our college, the percentage of Black faculty is probably less than 2 percent. Out of five hundred faculty in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, I would say less than thirty are Black African American, meaning African American, African Caribbean, people who classify themselves as Black. Out of the five hundred plus professors in our college, I think there are five Black full professors. There are no Black male assistant professors. I think there might be one or two Black female assistant professors, so the numbers are really, really horrible, because one problem is we’ve not been able to retain the people that we’ve recruited over the years for a number of different reasons. But that is something, if you talk about the experience of Black students, they want to see more people of color teaching their courses.

	M:	Okay. Is there anything else you’d like for me to know?





	A:	No, just I think this is a really good university. I mean, it’s not perfect, but we have the potential to do some things to make it a better place.

	M:	Awesome. Thank you so much for meeting with me, I appreciate it. A:	Alright, alright.





[End of interview]



Transcribed by: Megan Sam, June 20, 2019 Audio-edited by: Jennifer Romero, June 25, 2019 Final edit by: Sandra Romero, May 20, 2020