AAHP 371; Johnson; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 371 Earnestine Johnson African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Randi Gill-Sadler on April 11, 2015 1 hour, 17 minutes | 27 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 371

Interviewee: Earnestine Johnson Interviewer: Randi Gill-Sadler Date: April 11, 2015



	G:	Okay, it is April 11. We are in White Springs, Florida. I am Randi Gill-Sadler on behalf of the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program, and I am interviewing Earnestine Johnson. Good morning, Mrs. Johnson. How are you?

	J:	I am good and you?



	G:	I am wonderful. Thank you so much for doing this interview with us. Just want to start off telling us where and when you were born.

	J:	I was born Pitts, Georgia, November 16, 1943.



	G:	All right. And how long did you live in Pitts, Georgia? J:	Okay, until I was three years old.

	G:	Okay. And what caused you and your family to move form Pitts, Georgia?



	J:	Back then, my parents moved from Pitts to Jasper, Florida. Relocation for better jobs or whatever. At the big ground, my dad’s family.

	G:	Okay. And what did your parents do for a living?



	J:	My mom was a homemaker, and my dad was a farmer.



	G:	Okay. Do you know what kind of crops he would farm? Were there any in particular?

	J:	From corn to wheat, hogs, cows, you name it.



	G:	So where did you go to school when you moved to Jasper, Florida?



	J:	See then, we moved to Jasper when I was four. They didn’t have the Head Start and the Pre-K and all that. We are talking about years back. So I was at home.

	G:	And what age did you first start going to school? J:	I was six.





	G:	Six. And was it a segregated school? J:	Mmhm. Yes.

	G:	How many students would you say were in your class? [Laughter]



	J:	Oh gracious. It would be like…oh, twenty kids or more. That wouldn’t be every day, because when it was time for the season, the crops in the season, the parents would take them out to help on the farms and whatever.

	G:	Did you ever have to leave school to help on the farm?



	J:	No, I was fortunate. My parents, they didn’t believe in that. But see, those kids that had to be taken out was, because their parents was what you call a sharecropper.

	G:	Can you talk a little bit about your experience in school? Different teachers that you had? Or any particular subjects that you enjoyed the most?

	J:	Yeah. I had a teacher. She’s passed. She has gone on now. She would put the names on the board, and you had to pick out your name. When she called on me to go pick out my name, I missed it. Then she came and WHACK. I didn’t like that.

	G:	So you guys had corporal punishment?



	J:	Yes. Yes. Mmhm. Back then, you got it in school. Then when you got home, you got it.

	G:	So you were just getting it all the time? [Laughter] J:	But I tell you what? I learned my name.

	G:	Now, how did you get back and forth to school? J:	Walk.





	G:	Walk?



	J:	Mmhm.



	G:	How long was that walk?



	J:	That walk is from where this center is…do you know where the Tradition Grocery Store is?

	G:	No.



	J:	You don’t know everything in White Spring? You all came in on 10? G:	We came in up 75.

	J:	Oh, up 75 and down 136. Okay. Well, when you got off 75, came down 136 here, and you passed McDonalds.

	G:	Yes.



	J:	Okay, that is the distance. That was the distance. And we didn’t think nothing of it. And now, the kids can’t walk from here to the post office.

	G:	Now you walked in a group of children? Or did you walk by yourself?



	J:	I would walk by myself. But my neighbor, she had a lot of kids, and then we walk.



It would be about four of us. But then, I played after. It was starting the cheerleader, basketball, and the football and all that. And I would have to stay after school cause the rest would walk home. Then I walked home by myself.

	G:	Now did you have any brothers and sisters?



	J:	Yes, it was fourteen born, but nine of us living. I was the youngest. So my sisters and brothers, they were gone. In and out cause my parents had me late. Yeah. And when they would come home from school, they were off in college. They





would come home to visit. And they would be saying momma and dad. That’s not your momma. That not your dad. [Laughter]

	J:	And they would tell me, “Oh hush. You liked to not have made it.” Oh gracious. G:	Your older siblings, where did they go to college?

	J:	Fort Valley and, my oldest sister, she went to Philadelphia. Two older sisters went to Philadelphia. And one went to Fort Valley. That’s in Georgia. One went to West Palm Beach. Yeah.

	G:	Did your parents encourage you all to go to college?



	J:	Oh yes. That was no question. And then back then, when the oldest girl went off to college and got out and whatever, then she reach one and reach back and get one. That’s how it was. We were close. I mean close-close.

	G:	And so how long did you live in Jasper, Florida?



	J:	Okay, I lived in Jasper until 1962. That’s when I graduated. G:	And where did you graduate from?

	J:	J.R.E. Lee High.



	G:	Now schools were integrated by the time you graduated? J:	No.

	G:	Not yet?



	J:	Unh-uh.



	G:	So all through your school years, you were segregated schools? J:	Right.

	G:	And what was that experience like? J:	What? Being segregated?





	G:	Mmhm.



	J:	I don’t know. It was a happy time. It was a good time.



	G:	So you didn’t feel like you were missing out on anything or lacking anything? J:	No. Uhn-uh. Oh no. When I graduated from high school, then I moved to

Philadelphia with my oldest sister.



G:  After you graduated? J:  Yes. Mmhm.

G:  Now when you were living in Jasper, Florida, did you have any regular interactions with White people in your community? Or did you live in a predominantly Black community?

J:   Yeah, the interaction we had was…no. No, we didn’t. They stayed on this side.



We stayed on that side. Yeah.



	G:	Were there ever any racial incidents in your community in Jasper, Florida when you were growing up?

	J:	Yeah. Their football field used to be down near where I live. And when they would have a game, we would walk down there and stand on our side and look through the fence. If they won oh, it was a happy time. And if they lost and we’d be walking back home, they would try to run over us. Mmhm. Yeah. But other than that, no.

	G:	Would you tell your parents about that stuff when it would happen? J:	Mmhm. Yes.

	G:	And what would they say?



J:   They would say that the time would come when we all would live together, yeah.





	G:	Now did you go to church when you were growing up?



	J:	Oh-ho-ho-ho. [Laughter]. Hearty yes. We had Sunday school, morning service, afternoon service, night service, BTU.

	G:	Now, what’s the BTU?



	J:	By the Training Youth. That would be before the night service. G:	Did the church have a strong presence in your community?

	J:	Yes. The church still stands now. G:	In Jasper, Florida?

	J:	Yeah.



	G:	What’s the name?



	J:	Greater Poplar Springs Missionary Baptist.



	G:	Now did you sing in the choir? Were you an usher? What did you do at your church?

	J:	At my church, I started off ushering, and then I moved to singing in the choir.



Then I moved to playing for the Sunday school. Then I moved from playing there to playing for the choir. My dad was a deacon, and my mom was a deaconess, president of the Missionary Society.

	G:	Okay. And where did your church do missions? Was it just throughout Florida?



Was it beyond Florida?



	J:	They would do missions all over. They are just like now we do foreign mission. Stuff like that. Yesterday, we had the food drive. We had an open food thing, pantry. And it is just not for our church. Anyone that is in need—

	G:	Could come and get help.





	J:	Mmhm.



	G:	What other types of events did the church put on in your community when you were growing up in Jasper, Florida?

	J:	Well, revival.



	G:	Revival?



	J:	Oh yes. [Laughter]



	G:	And how were revivals? J:	They were good, yeah.

	G:	Did a lot of people come from out of town? Was it always packed? Was it a large church?

	J:	Yeah, people would come. Now we have what we call “Founder’s Week.” We get a speaker; a minister rather, to come in. The church was back there every night. He was very good.

	G:	So you graduated high school in 1962, and then you moved to Philadelphia. J:	Yes.

	G:	So how was Philadelphia compared to Jasper, Florida?



J:  Haha. Philadelphia compared to Jasper. There is no comparison, because you don’t feel the difference here. The city of brotherly love, yeah. I went to nursing school there. I was a pinstriper at Temple University.

G:  And you lived with your sister? J:   I lived with my older sister.

G:  Did she give you any advice about how to move around in Philadelphia? Places to go? Not go? Things to worry about?





	J:	Mmhm. Yes. Yes. Yes. Like I said, I was the youngest. And she had a daughter, one daughter. So we were raised like sisters.

	G:	But it was really your niece?



	J:	Uh-huh. My next older sister, she had a daughter. So that made it three. And my mom, back in Georgia, when she was having a kid, she said she wanted to be finished child-bearing when her children started. So she just did make it. Cause I was November, Carol was April, and Willy May was May. So they would be saying “Teen”, because they called me Teen. I said, no, you say “Aunt Teen” [Laughter]. Aunt Tine. Ahh, I am not give in. Oh, you are. Then we would go around, around for that. So like I said, my sister, she, at that age, raised two girls. And we went out job-looking. So we got hired on at Sear’s. Then we got laid off. But you know how they were hired to work to get the stock up, then they laid off and never called me back. So we came home on that Thanksgiving Day. She asked “Aunt Tine. She out there in the room. She is just crying. She just crying.” “So what are you crying about?” “I got laid off today, and I like my job. I like what I was doing.” She said in there, “Carol, come get my things.” “She just a’crying.” She called her aunt, who was my sister-in-law. “Guess what all they had?” She said what. “We got laid off today. Tine is crying, but I am happy.”[Laughter]

	G:	What year was that when that happened?



	J:	[19]66, [19]62, cause I can say. I graduated in [19]62, and then I went to Philly.



	So that was [19]63, [19]64, somewhere like that. G:	Now this was before you went to nursing school?





	J:	Uh-huh. Yeah.



	G:	So what did your sister do for a living in Philadelphia?



	J:	She started off as a carrot girl at Campbell Soup, New Jersey. And she worked there…thirty years or more. And she was the president.

	G:	Okay.



	J:	Co-president for the…you know, the hiring and the firing.



	G:	Okay. How were race relations in Philadelphia when you were there?



	J:	It took me to adjust to the race, because I wasn’t used to that. I was looking for the White and the Black bathroom, but no, there wasn’t.

	G:	So you had gotten used to the separation? J:	Uh-huh.

	G:	So when you got to Philadelphia and it wasn’t that way that kind of shocked you?



	J:	Yeah. [Laughter] Oh gracious. And going in the restaurant then, I wasn’t used to going in the front.

	G:	Wow. So when that would happen, would you by yourself? Or would you be with your sister? Would she say, “We can go in the front now?”

	J:	Yeah, I would be with my sister.



	G:	So you had a bit of a learning curve once you got there? J:	Yes. Uh-huh.

	G:	Were there any other things that were strange about it that you can remember? You talked about going in through the front door as opposed to the back and the separate bathrooms.

	J:	Let’s see. Oh, the theater.





	G:	Okay. So can you talk about a time that you kind of realized things are different once you went to the movie theater?

	J:	Yeah, I was standing in the line. I stood way back, because I was trying to figure out was I supposed to go or was I supposed to stay. Then the light came on.

	Then the girl beckoned, “Come on, come on.” After that day— G:	Then you just went wherever.

	J:	Yeah. [Laughter]



	G:	With no worries. Now how did you get around when you were in Philadelphia?



Did your sister have a car? Did you take public transportation?



	J:	Okay, she had a car, but I used the SEPTA, the public transportation. Because, like I tell you, she would be going to work at Campbell Soup, and that was in New Jersey across the bridge. So I learned to use that public system like nothing.

Because you have to get coins or you just paid when you got on there. If you would get the coins in the week, it was cheaper. You didn’t have to come up with the money whenever you want a ride.

	G:	So how did you make friends once you were in Philadelphia?



	J:	My oldest brother, his name was David. He was named after my dad. But they called him “Jell-O”, because he was huge, big. His outgoingness, he didn’t know no stranger. And he was the manager of a baseball team. It was called the Harlem Bombers. Right? Harlem Bombers.

	G:	Okay. So you would go to some of the games?



	J:	Mmhm. Do you see where they have these carts now? He owned one of those, and we would take it to the game. And then I would run that for him along with his





children, who never helped run that cart. We had those hot sauces, pickle, pickled eggs, and several. Oh, those were the hottest summers. I never ate it, because it was too hot.

	G:	Now were you communicating with your parents a lot when you were in Philadelphia?

	J:	UH-HUH. Oh yes. They moved… Older sister Nulles got them to move from Jasper to Philly. I want to say in [19]64. Yeah, 1964.

	G:	And that’s when your parents came to Philadelphia.



	J:	Mmhm. Yeah, 1964. Yeah, they live with my oldest sister, also. G:	Now did they work when they came up there?

	J:	Well, they had retired. They retired.



	G:	Now was there any particular reason that they moved up? Or is it because they wanted to be closer to you all?

	J:	The children, all of us, they wanted them to be closer. G:	So you said you were a Pinstriper at Temple?

	J:	Mmhm. A Candystriper.



	G:	A Candystriper, excuse me. A Candystriper. And what was that experience like for you?

	J:	Oh, that is what made me want to go into nursing. That was good. G:	How long did you do that?

	J:	I did that about a couple of years. Yeah, a couple of years. G:	And how long did you live in Philadelphia?

	J:	From right out of high school to [19]65.





	G:	To [19]65.



	J:	Uh-huh.



	G:	And then where did you go in [19]65?



	J:	My high school sweetheart from Jasper came, and we got married in Philadelphia. Then we moved. He was in the service. We moved from there to Fort Hood, Texas.

	G:	So you moved a long way.



	J:	Stayed in Fort Hood, Texas for six years and moved from there to Maywood, Illinois.

	G:	And so you said this was your high school sweetheart before you married. Had y’all been communicating while you were in Philadelphia?

	J:	Mmhm. Yeah. From that marriage, three children. Ask me once, but we had three girls.

	G:	Okay. I want to go back to when you were living in Philadelphia. Were you aware of things going on as far as the Civil Rights Movement? Were you watching it on TV?

	J:	Yes. Uh-huh. The day that Martin Luther got killed, oh. Oh, I was so upset. G:	Do you remember where you were when you found out?

	J:	Well, I had just come in from work. G:	And you saw it on the news?

	J:	Yeah. Yes. Yes.



	G:	And your reaction was sadness? J:	Very sad. Very sad.







G:

And by that time, your parents were up in Philadelphia, also too.

J:

Mmhm. Yeah.

G:

What were their reactions?

J:

We were just overcome…we are not sad. My parents are sad…we are not sad.

G:

Why?

J:

It happened. Because that’s an act of God. You don’t say “Why?” You have to



move on from there.

G:

Do you remember when Malcolm X was assassinated?

J:

Somewhat. I believe I was in Chicago at that time, yeah. Because I was kind of



sad because the movement. Yeah, I was in Chicago, I believe.

G:

Did you ever feel any desire to be a part of the Civil Rights Movement, to



protest? Or was that something that you tried to avoid?

J:

I was in one of the marches.

G:

And where was this march that you were in?

J:

That was in Chicago.

G:

And how old were you then? [Laughter]

J:

Oh my.

G:

If you don’t mind me asking.

J:

Well, I am seventy-one now. So I was young.

G:

And what made you want to be a part of that?

J:

Improvement. To make things better. For the cause.

G:

Were your siblings or your parents involved in that type of stuff, too?

J:

No, unh-uh. They didn’t march, but they went to a lot of meetings.





	G:	Did they encourage you to get involved? Or were they against? J:	Yes.

	G:	They did? Okay. So you lived in Fort Hood, Texas with your husband, who was in the army?

	J:	Mmhm.



	G:	Now were you concerned that he might go to Vietnam?



	J:	No, because, matter of fact, when he went to Vietnam, I was expecting her. [Points at daughter in same room]

	G:	Okay, so he did do a stint in Vietnam? J:	Mmhm.

	G:	How long was he gone?



	J:	Eighteen months, yeah. And he went to Korea twice, and he went to Germany. G:	Now when he would be away, would you have to work to support your family?

	J:	No, no. Well, I didn’t have to because he was sending allotments. But to get out of the house and whatever, I worked.

	G:	So where did you work during this time?



	J:	Okay. When I was in Texas, I didn’t. When I was in Illinois, I worked at this manufacture that made colanders. I liked that.

	G:	Why did you like that job?



	J:	It was just dealing with my hands, and it was right near where I lived, which was with my next oldest sister. I don’t know. I just liked that. And then I worked for the park and recreation, which was right up the street from me. I liked that.

	G:	What did you do when you worked for park and rec?





	J:	Oh, it was mostly just maintain that so the children wouldn’t get hurt or what have you; playing on the slides and the swings in there. And giving them their refreshments, yeah.

	G:	Now did you have any nursing jobs while you were in Chicago or Texas?



	J:	Yes. Okay, not in Texas. Chicago. Back when I got to Philly. Like I told you, I started off in Philly and was going to school and working and what have you. Then we got married. Then we moved to Texas, and I was a stay-at-home. Then we left Texas and went to Chicago. Then he was gone overseas. Then end up back to Philly. Well, New Jersey. Fort Dix, New Jersey, that is where he was stationed. And it was there, yeah,

	G:	So when you got back there, you were doing nursing. J:	Mmhm. Yeah.

	G:	And did you work at a hospital?



	J:	Okay. While he was in Germany, I was a CNA at the nursing home. And I worked the graveyard shift, twelve to eight. Yup. Then after I changed shifts and started working at seven to three. Then we moved to Texas again, yeah.

	G:	And so how did you and when did you get to White Springs?



	J:	Okay, we were at Fort Dix, New Jersey at where he was stationed. Then he built a house here in White Springs in 1976. Then we moved here.

	G:	Now did he have ties here before?



	J:	Yes, he had ties in Jasper. He was born and raised in Jasper. Then his parents, they moved to White Springs.

	G:	Now did you want to come back to Florida?





	J:	No. [Laughter]



	G:	Why didn’t you want to come back?



	J:	Because I was leaving all of my siblings and my parents over there. G:	But he wanted to be closer to his family?

	J:	Uh-huh. Yeah. So…in [19]76. Yeah. At the house where I am now. Then we moved here.

	G:	And your children were still pretty young at this point? J:	Uh-huh. They were school age.

	G:	And when you guys came back to White Springs, what did you guys do for a living?

	J:	He didn’t come. He was still in the service. G:	Oh okay.

	J:	Then, I guess I was here about six months. I got on at the school here in White Springs as a teacher’s aide, they called them then. Went over to North Florida College. Took the test for paraprofessional, and I worked at South Hamilton thirty years.

	G:	As a teacher’s aide there? J:	Uh-huh.

	G:	And what grade did you work with?



	J:	Well, I started off with the seventh and eighth. And then I regrouped back to.



Then that’s when Pre-K came on board. Then I worked with Pre-K to the eighth.



	G:	And so are you retired now? J:	I retired May 2006.





	G:	And what has your experience been like living in the White Springs community?



Because at first you didn’t want to come.



	J:	Unh-uh.



	G:	But now you have been here almost forty years? J:	And I love it.

	G:	And you love it. J:	And I love it.

	G:	Why do you love it?



	J:	I don’t know. Somebody’s cousin said right here, “Once you drink this water, that’s it.” [Laughter] I like the being- I am an outdoor person. I like being outside. I like the fishing. I used to like where you could go to the mailbox, get your mail and come back, and didn’t have to worry about your door being locked. USED TO.

	G:	Used to?



	J:	Yes. And that was a dark passing of the night. Because I was there in the north, the cold, the snow, and all that. Once you are away from that for a while, unh, no. Said “Go back and visit” and what have you, but to live, unh-uh. No.

	G:	Can’t do that cold weather anymore?



	J:	Unh-uh. No. But being here in the outside is nice.



G:   So you said you like fishing, are there other outdoor activities you like to do? J:   Well, I was into the sports. Basketball was my favorite, yeah. I played tennis. G:   You played tennis. I am sorry. What else? Tennis and basketball?

J:   Yeah, Mmhm.





	G:	What kind of fish do you like to eat around here?



	J:	I like most fish. I don’t like cod. I don’t like the mudfish. But any other. And my fishing is strictly harbor fishing. All I can catch from the bank. But getting in a boat? Uh, no. [Laughter]

	G:	Had you learned to fish when you were younger? Or was that something you learned when you came back here?

	J:	Learned when I came back here, yeah. My friend taught me how to fish. I was her assistant in the kindergarten. She said, “Earnestine, let’s go fishing.” I said, “Go fishing? Unh-uh.” That mean you got put that worm on the hook and all that. See I told her, “unh-uh.” No, no, no. But her strategy, she had a good strategy, she said, “Let’s come on and go.” I said “Okay.” She said, “I will bait your hook.” And her strategy was once I saw everybody baiting their hook and throwing out, because the fish would be biting, that I wouldn’t stand up. Sure enough, it worked. But she didn’t tell me that. Now I know. Well, we went fishing like she said. And I would be waiting, standing there waiting so she would come and bait my hook. That place where we went, the fishes were really biting. It was a great day. So I tried it. Go. Set the bait. They don’t bite. They don’t get on. I tried to put it on there. And honey, I had a good time.

	G:	But she knew once you saw everybody else doing it, that you would want to jump in?

	J:	Uh-huh, I would get tired of waiting so she could come bait my hook. G:	That you would just jump right in.

	J:	And that’s what happened.





	G:	So did a lot of the teachers that you work with, did they become your friends outside of?

	J:	Oh yes. Uh-huh- Yes. Yes. Yes. We would have something like the birthday celebration. We would do it every three months. And I would coordinate over. We had all the birthdays in those three months. They would have to bring a covered dish or something when it would be their birthday. And also, we had a little social club. We would pay ten dollars. Like when there was a death or a need or something, we would give contribution, and that’s what they did. And they birthday, we would give them a little gift.

	G:	What was the name of the social club that you were a part of? Did it have a name? Or did you guys just come together?

	J:	Unh-uh. Just a little- Sunshine Committee. G:	Sunshine Committee. And was it all women? J:	Unh-uh. All the staff at the school.

	G:	All the staff at the school, okay, started a social club. Okay. And I assume that you are still very much involved in the church.

	J:	Oh yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.



	G:	So what is the church that you go to here in White Springs?



	J:	Okay. Now my home church, like I said, is Greater Poplar Spring. Now I only minister music to the Sunday school, and I sing in the adult choir.

	G:	And this is still at your home church? J:	Uh-huh.

	G:	And how far is your home church from here?





	J:	Well, it is at the county seat, eighteen miles. But now the churches that are here, I attend when they have programs and what have you.

	G:	I know that you—oh, I am sorry. You were going to say something.



	J:	I am a musician for the…it’s call the Sunrise Choir. It is the community churches around, and we just had sunrise service.

	G:	For your son?



	J:	Yes, at Stephen Foster. And this was the forty-eight session. Mmhm. That’s nice. G:	I know also in White Springs, you guys have the Emancipation Day Celebration. J:	Uh-huh.

	G:	Do you participate in those in any way?



	J:	Mmhm. Yes. That choir I was telling you about, the Sunrise Choir. Yeah.



	G:	Now did you have Emancipation Day celebrations when you were younger back in either Pitts, Georgia or Jasper, Florida?

	J:	No.



	G:	So that was something you really only did once you came back to White Springs?

	J:	Yes. Yes, and once you got grown, nobody, but back then they didn’t have that. G:	Do you know anything about the Carver School here?

	J:	Okay, now the Carver School was here and then the J.R.E. Lee School was in Jasper. Those two Black schools. And then we played ball. We was rivals.

	G:	Oh okay. Okay. So that was your rival, but did you have any friends that went there?

	J:	Oh yeah. I had friends and cousins.





	G:	Did you know any teachers there?



	J:	Yes. Yes, E.W. Graham, he was the principal. And then his wife, Mary Graham.



Then Ms. Sadie Turner. Ms. Pinter.



	G:	And did that school, did they have a good reputation in the community?



	J:	Oh yes. Uh-huh. Matter of fact, now…well, it no longer is. But it still the old Carver Center around there. And the twentieth of May, they have May Day here, and it is held around there.

	G:	You talked a little bit earlier, you said one of the things that you really liked about being in White Springs is that it was a strong sense of community, and that you felt that you used to be able to leave your door unlocked here. But you said it is not that way anymore?

	J:	No. No. It caught up with the time. Time is changing. Well, nothing stays the same. But it has been on the safe side. We still are a nice little community, but just like twelve miles away, tragedy happened. There used to be a student over here. With the drugs and all that, it just let—

[great-grandson enters]



	G:	What are you doing?



	J:	That’s my great-grandson. G:	Oh okay.

	J:	Making it a change.



	G:	And so you came back here in [19]76? J:	Mmhm.





	G:	When did you feel that the crime started to increase here? Has it been more recently? Was it a little bit earlier?

	J:	In the [19]90s, I would say. Yeah. See, you can start seeing a change.



	G:	Do you have any thoughts about where that came from? Or just kind of why the negative began to increase here?

	J:	Have you heard the saying, “In the world will not be, of the world. Like children will go away or people will go away.” And stuff that that they can do in Miami, and they bring it back here. That’s how all this stuff coming to be.

	G:	How has the community tried to address some of the increase of crime or drugs in White Springs?

	J:	Like she was telling you about the crime watch. G:	Neighborhood Watch?

	J:	Mmhm, yes. That helps. Like I see the police what they have in their amazing smile thing, that is another help. Like place them as more a friend. Who are they coming the police for them to get scared like that? Yeah. That’s a difference.

	G:	Right, so that program encourages the police to be friendly with some of the young people in the community?

	J:	Mmhm, yes.



	G:	Do you feel as though the community has a good relationship with the police here?

	J:	Yes. Mmhm.



	G:	What do you see in the future for White Springs? I know you guys have a few development projects going on.





	J:	I see that we are coming up from being the poorest of poorest. Yes. Yes. G:	Are you excited to see some of the new things coming?

	J:	Yes. All except the liquor store.



	G:	All except the liquor store, understandable. And you say you have great- grandchildren here?

	J:	Yeah, that’s one.



		G:		And where do they go to school? J:	At South Hamilton.

	G:	Okay, South Hamilton. Same place where you taught, okay. J:	Yes.

	G:	Do you feel like the schools have improved since you have been here? J:	Oh yes.

	G:	In what ways?



	J:	Academic-wise, yes. They just had a program where the children, they call them the “Homeless.” But see, a lot of people get confused about that. The homeless is, in fact, where there is a household, and there is only one parent. That’s considered the “Homeless”, but a lot of people get confused on it. Cause they say, “Homeless, they got…no, no, no.” Where there is one parent then that child needs help. No father figure or no mother figure, yeah. So then, PCS—

	G:	What’s PCS? I am sorry.



J:  That chemical plant that has been here for year now that employs many of the people of White Springs, and it’s around the county. They started this program where they would feed the children. So like I said, those homeless, the one





parent child, they had this book bag. And on Friday, they would bring it home with food for the weekend. And then that program just closed out the week before the spring break. And that was real good. That was real good, because a lot of kids when they get home, no food. The only food that they would get would be at school, see. That they feed them breakfast, and they would give them lunch.

See, that is a far-cry from when we used to have to carry around lunch.



	G:	Now what other community efforts or organizations are you involved in right now?

	J:	Well, like I told you, the crime watch, the Sunrise Committee…I don’t know. You name it. [Laughter]

	G:	But you are still very much involved in the community? J:	Oh yes.

	G:	And why is that important to you to stay involved? J:	To stay alive.

	G:	Can you elaborate on that a little bit more about what you mean? About staying alive?

	J:	About staying alive? When you are in touch with the Lord, and I do love him, yeah. And there is no denomination with me with the Lord. What’s your faith?

	G:	I am a Christian. Baptist, Southern Baptist



	J:	Okay. Now, I say I am in touch with the Lord and what have you. I don’t deal with the atheists at all, but then I say that I am in touch with the Lord, and then I say I don’t deal with the atheist. But you say you don’t love our god. All right. I am not to judge you. I am not judging you. He say, “Judge ye, judge ye righteousness





and like a witness.” Unh-uh. No. I am getting ready to go to church, then you are going to come and stop me from going to church? See, no. Unh-uh. That don’t work. We just came out of Harvest Community Unity service all week. That was great. That was great.

	G:	Do you feel as though the community has good leadership right now?



	J:	Yes. Our mayor, she wears many hats. Golly, many hats. Many hats. For every day. She is a hard worker, a very hard worker. Like they say “Georgia on the mind”, she has White Springs. She goes to the limit for White Springs. Now under her leadership, she is the only mayor that I know that has done a lot for White Springs. Yeah. Commendable.

	G:	Yeah. I know we were here a couple of weeks ago, and she was giving us a tour.



We were following her in the car, and I noticed that all the people in the community would come out and wave to her or come up and talk to her. So I can see she has a good reputation here in the community. And you said she is one of the better mayors that you have lived under in White Springs.

	J:	Yes, yes, yes.



	G:	What do you feel that the other mayors weren’t doing here?



	J:	To do more, you have to know more. To know more, you have to apply it enough.



Yeah, that’s it.



	G:	Well, is there anything else you want to say about your time in White Springs?



Anything about your life that I didn’t get to ask you about that you want to share?



	J:	In my life and moving around and what have you all, I am divorced. G:	Okay and when did you get a divorce?





	J:	In 1984.



	G:	In 1984.



	J:	Mmhm.



	G:	And how did that change life for you?



	J:	Well, you know during…well, no. You wouldn’t know. Go over there [to great- grandson]. Wouldn’t though- during a divorce it is a life-changing experience. It didn’t make me bitter. No, I can’t say that, because at first, you do be bitter. You go through some changes, but I had an anchor, and that was the Lord. See, he brought me though with the three girls. All the changes, what all goes on with a divorce and what have you. But you know what? I told you I had an anchor. I am on top. He was my first husband. He had four wives [Laughter]. You know what? He and his wife number four live right next door.

	G:	What?



	J:	Yes. See, I told you I had an anchor.



	G:	Now do all three of your girls live here also?



J:   No, my oldest lives in Atlanta. She is the president of finance and management of Primerica. The next oldest, she lives here. Yeah, that’s her over there. Yeah. That one, she is decorator, Rhonda. And then my baby girl is an RN. She is the head director of nursing at Bayer Point.

G:   And you have how many grandchildren?



	J:	Ugh…how many grandchildren do I have? Okay…six. But then I have three step, but I don’t call them step. So really I have ten grandkids. And six great-grand.

G:   Great-grand. Goodness.





	J:	Matter of fact, the youngest great-grand, he is a year old. He had brain surgery yesterday.

	G:	Oh wow.



	J:	Yeah, that’s his second surgery, and he got one more. But technology. They had to cut his stuff. He grew up through the ground. They stopped him from being a little active, but he is fine. He had some disturbances on one of his leaders going, and they cleared that up. So he is fine. He is going to be fine. Yeah.

	G:	Well, Mrs. Johnson, I just want to thank you for your time today. J:	Well, I hope it wasn’t boring.

	G:	No, your life is very exciting. You gave me so much, and I just appreciate you sharing everything that you shared today.

	J:	Okay.



	G:	All right. [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Derick Gomez; May 28, 2015 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero April 26, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 25, 2019