AAHP 220B; Burney; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 220B Sharon Burney



Interviewed by Juliette Barbera and Aliya Miranda on January 17, 2019 41 Pages

Abstract:

Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida; Black Alumni]



Interviewer: Juliette Barbera, Aliya Miranda Interviewee: Sharon Burney

Date: January 17, 2019 AAHP 220B



BA: So, today is January 17th, 2019. We’re here with Ms. Sharon Burney. My name is Juliette Barbera, and we’re going to do an interview. We had an interview with you in 2011, where you talked about where you grew up, when you were born, how it was to live in Richmond—upstate New York— and family history. It left off where you were talking about how you came here early [19]90s, I believe—

BU:  Uh-huh.



BA:  —to UF, so what was your first impressions of UF?



BU: I came to UF in, actually, [19]89. I was married, I was going through a divorce. And my father told me about UF because I had two children, they were two and five at the time and UF was one of the few only places in the United States at the time that had family housing, so that was a big appeal for me. So, I came to UF to visit. I applied and got accepted. So I came to visit, before I actually moved here. And interesting story, I met with my financial aid counselor at the time, who was Joel Buchanan. He was a financial aid counselor at the time, so I remember meeting him and he did a really great job. Had a lot of support back then. My impressions, it was a beautiful campus. My impression was that it was large institution, and at the time, we did have an overabundance of Black faculty, staff. At that time there was an ombudsman, Tommy Howard. He was a Black ombudsman for quite some years before he retired, who was very proactive in assisting students of color. Dean Scott was here. Over the IBC was Dr. William





Simmons, who was very instrumental. He was a faculty member with Student Affairs. There was no MCDA necessarily at that time. It wasn’t until they moved MCDA and they shifted stuff over, but he ended up retiring. But that gave us a full-time faculty member that actually worked at the Institute of Black Culture, with a full-time staff member, Ms. Alma Johnson, who was a full-time staff member that worked there. So, it gave us access for large periods of time to IBC at all times. And then in the evenings, we were able to go there, because they were open at night, too. And then, grad students or other people, were in conjunction with a full-time faculty member or full- time staff, who was very active—who was an advisor to a lot of Black student organizations. There was a Willy Robinson, who was a dean over in Student Affairs, who actually helped me when I had a situation. I needed to get into Family Housing. Had the long waiting list and he assisted me, because I had an issue where I needed housing for me and my daughter. And he was instrumental helping me get in earlier. So, those type of things are important to have. An abundance of faculty and deans of color that are accessible to the students because we have a lot of issues that a lot of the traditional students that come here from different socioeconomic levels don’t have. And when I came, there were a lot more Black students than are here right now, so the percentage was much higher. So, social media wasn’t big, so we had to meet face to face to find out what was happening to us. So, we congregated out in Turlington, what we call “The Set”—The Set is where Black students go and just sat, [laughter] so that’s why we call





it The Set—and that’s where we would greet each other, and see each other regardless of what organization you were in. You greeted each other, and you spoke to each other, and we sat there and found out what was happening to us individually. But when you see each other every day, and you greetin’ and interacting, you form a bond. So, regardless of organizational differences, or where we were on campus or off campus, we always came together. And I noticed that Black students that were here previously…we don’t necessarily have an attachment strictly to the University. we have an attachment to our experience while we were here that we shared at the University. So, we’re still very close. One of my friends that we met here is the godmother to my daughter, you know. Most of my friends I went to school here with—we’re still very close till this day.

BA: And you mentioned that there was an abundance of faculty and staff and students who were African American. Over the years, you had mentioned there is less now, so—

BU: Was there a shift? Yeah. There was a shift. There was a lot of—Charles Harris, who was in journalism, who was very instrumental, very active on campus. Dr. Mildred Hill-Lubin was one of my first professors that I had when I came here. Had a reading class and I thought I could write, and I realized I could not [laughter]. I remember sitting in her class, and I couldn’t even see the writing on my page [laughter], but I learned how to write, and I thank her every chance that I get. She just recently passed. But she introduced me to the Zora Neale Hurston festival, to African literature. The





expansiveness of it. She brought a diplomat here, to speak from Africa. We went to that, we visited that. And through retirement and the lack of influx of more and enough Black faculty, it’s diminished greatly. So, of course people are going to retire, but if you’re recruiting and hiring at a steady place, we won’t have these windfalls. So, over time I could say it’s saddening, and it’s exhausting and frustrating, because if you look historically over time at UF, you will see these highs and the severe lows in demographics, and it’s because there’s not a constant commitment to diversity. And I say it before and I’ll say it over again: diversity is about all the numbers. So, it’s about the acceptance numbers, it’s about the retention numbers, it’s about the graduation. It’s about finance. It’s about salaries. It’s about promotion, it’s about tenure, it’s about scholarships, it’s about resources. It’s about recruitment. It’s in all the numbers. True diversity, not the exploitation of it, it requires investment, and it’s a constant initiative. Not one that’s addressed during bad publicity. It’s not a pitcher to action.

BA: You had mentioned how students would bond over the experience, not necessarily an attachment to the University. How is it perhaps different for students that don’t get to have that bond, maybe during periods when the retention rate was higher here?

BU:  Yeah, I think it’s a combination of social media and the internet, and access where we have—what I feel is pseudo-connection, where we become heavily dependent upon instruments and the internet to communicate with each other. And now, I’m even noticing recently, group-chats have now





formed their way of discussing in conversation, but then you don’t have to meet up. And so, you could stay and hide in your little pockets, your organizational pockets, your geographical pockets without coming face to face, and there’s these whole other people that you don’t get to meet, that maybe having experiences—so, there are incidents that are happening, but nobody knows about them because there’s no community. There’s no shared space. There’s no space where you need your own. We’re going on, it’s gonna be almost three years with no IBC and La Casita, so now you’re almost gonna have a whole new generation; a class of students that don’t even know what the IBC is, that don’t know what the La Casita is and it significance. And it’s frustrating when people of color say, “Hey, I need.” Black people say, “I need. This is what’s happening to me.” And people who don’t have their experience, who are not Black, are saying, “Oh, no, that’s not true.” “Oh, no that’s not—this is what’s true.” That’s a depressing situation to be in. And the best way that I can get people to try to understand is when a woman is trying to tell a man how they feel. If I try to tell you what childbirth feels like and you haven’t had it, you’d be like, “Oh, that looks like it hurts, but it don’t hurt that bad.” You know, “All the pressure can’t be that bad.” The denial of it is exhausting. And so, I believe that social media and the inability to have a shared space, an ample shared space where they can go without the eyes—without White gaze determining what Blackness is, determining what their experience is, negating their experiences, assessing their experiences. We just need a place. We’re completely





outnumbered. You just need to just be, and be free, and be able to feel like you’re not on your Ps and Qs. Or, even if you wanna be on your Ps and Qs, having to explain, “Look, I need a place where I see some other people.” The best way I explain that to them is, “When is the last time you’ve been in a situation where you were the only White person in the room? Now, let that be your experience all day. Three hundred and sixty-five days in a year. How comfortable would you feel, and would you need your own space without Black gaze?”

BA: When you started mentioning social media and— BU:  The lack of attachment.

BA:  Yeah. And also, you had mentioned how in the past there wasn’t an MCDA. Would you happen to know how MCDA became incorporated into—like what is the institutional history?

BU:  If I remember correctly, what happened is they shifted the . . . so MCDA was created, and they shift the IBC and La Casita underneath the directorship of MCDA organization. So, before, I said it was a part of Student Affairs, but it was separate. Because we also had the dean of minority affairs, Harry Shaw was the first one. That was one of my first experiences, too, because I came in under OAS, Oasis, and they had that, and so we had the Dean of Student Minority Affairs, and we had Student Affairs, and they shifted underneath that, and it became under the ownership. It has its space, but you also have to have your own separate identities within that





space determined by the culture. I don’t understand the significance of melded identities, or ambiguous when you say “Black.”

BA:  Because I was thinking about how the culture should define who people are. But is it different under these type of structures? Where it’s like, now you have this organization, or do you have any reflections on that? Or have you seen that pattern where it’s like people aren’t able to fully define their culture, but do institutional structures like the MCDA or student organizations is there—

BU: We’ve seen the research where MCDA’s rise was created across the country as a means to control student protests, because universities are big businesses now. You know? And bad business, bad publicity. And I wish we had more of an interest in having people who study race, who speak about race, who talk about race to define race and what race is in a more— it’s a hypocrisy, right? On the one hand, we’re academics. We’re researchers. And on the other hand, we have people speaking about race who haven’t studied race. They’ve studied diversity, and that’s not the same thing. And you’ll hear a lot of Black scholars right now talk about how they’re being used for diversity workshops, to speak about diversity, and it’s not the same thing as speaking about race. Not in the terms of how its context in which it’s being used. And they always want the labor of Black scholars for free, without paying for it to do the diversity work. It goes back to what I said earlier, we need to be about action. We need to listen, to hear what they’re saying, to not deny it, to have people at the table who are not being





controlled, who are not being told to say this, to talk about the Black experience. And this is what’s happening in the country right now. And I think what you’re seeing is Black people saying, “We’re tired.” We’ve been doing this for four hundred years. This is not working, you’re not hearing us, we now know all about your institutions inside and out. We can talk about your institutions that are created to oppress us as a people, as a whole, and we’re tired of it. And the demographics have shifted, so we’re going to have to discuss this one way or another. And people saying, “No, we’re not talking ‘bout nothing’s going on.” Our slip is showing, so to speak. And we need to either cover it up, or we’re gonna talk about the slip, or take it off altogether.

BA:  I want to ask you also about the Black campus movement. Have you heard about that here at the University of Florida? Has that been discussed?

BU:  As in something new, or what have the Black Campus Movements looked like since I’ve been here?

	BA:	Just in general. I guess both—



BU:  So, when I first came here, Pam Bingham was President. A friend of mine was dating Nikita Imani, who became President. I knew Mr. Cliff at the time. Well, he was going by Nikita Imani, and she was like, “Look, Cliff,” [laughter]. And he walked around with his boots and his combat and Dave Padget, I believe. Actually, when I came here, one of the students was connected somehow to—we were joking about this; one of my friends, we we’re joking about this. We were talking about the death of Winnie Mandela, who came here when I was here. One of the students connected to David Duke some





kind of way. And he had talked one of the students here into starting the White Student Union. That happened when I first came here. And Winnie Mandela had come, and so they were protesting Winnie Mandela coming here to speak, because they had that whole thing about the boots, or whatever. And so, they came to the protest, which we joked and laughed about it. It was ridiculous, but it was serious, but we joked and one of the members of the White Student Union was an Asian guy, so we were trying to understand how that worked for him. But I remember the White Student Union trying to organize, and we would march and organize against it. We had a lot more money then, for Black History Month. When I was at the IBC, and I think I spoke about this before, I was doing an event during Black History Month. We brought Stokely Carmichael here, he was our keynote speaker. An organization I was in, we were doing African quilting. We brought an African quilter up from Tampa, who was coming to tell the history of quilting and its connections to the diaspora. And so, we were upset because we weren’t gonna get to see Stokely Carmichael, because it was probably over. And he saw our flyer, and had whoever was walking around bring him over to the IBC for the thing. And they sat there with us—he was late to this talk, because he was just sitting there talking to us. He was so laidback and cool. So, I got to meet him. We had Black student ambassadors, and I was one of those here. And so, we would have a Black—we were able until Jeb Bush, we were able to have a weekend. . .so it was kind of like Preview for Black students that were coming in. So, what





we would do is we’d have Black scholarship week and whatever, where they’d bring students up, and they’d stay in the dorms for the weekend. We had a few weekends we’d do it, so we’d pick Black student ambassadors, and part of what we did was like Preview staff for them. And so, we’d stay in a dorm with them, take ‘em around and do tours and all that kind of stuff. And that was beneficial for students to come in and feel like, “Okay, it’s at home.” The same benefits, but you have to once again acknowledge that there’s a need of Black students that’s not being met that you don’t know is not being met. So, because I was a Black student ambassador, I was able to meet Stokely Carmichael. We met Winnie Mandela, we meet Coretta Scott King, we met . . . we would have the most fantastic Black History Months, because our budget was incredible. So we would have a keynote speaker, but every week we had a keynote speaker. So every Friday or Saturday, we had a big keynote speaker. So, you might have all them people in one month. In between the months, we brought what we would call “smaller people.” So it’d be like [inaudible 19:33] or somebody like that would be in between. So, it was literally every week. It was three or four ridiculous events that you can go to for Black History Month. So yeah, do I see the activism? Yeah, because when you separate the people and they’re disconnected and there’s only a few, there’s half or one third of what there was. Now, you’re separated and you’re in your small pockets, and you take something away that they don’t realize they miss, or never had, or can’t identify. They don’t have the skillset to identify the system, the constructs,





in which they’re being oppressed. They don’t know that they’re missing it. It’s what happens when someone stumbles into Intro to African American Studies. And they go, “Wow.” And I always read books when I was—there’s a professor named Diedre Crumbley, who was in Anthropology here, she did African religions. And I happened to work for her. So, what happened was a few of my friends would work for her like a research assistant, but was student work study, I was in undergrad. And she was probably one of the most brilliant minds I had ever stumbled across ever. And you ever have this [inaudible 20:53]? You’re like, “Oh my God. I don’t know that I don’t know.” Right? And they blow your mind. And I went to work for her, and she was . . . probably one of the most brilliant minds I’ve ever come across, and I’ve been fortunate to come across some great ones; I sit at their feet. And the first thing I had to do was try to edit a chapter for her. And I remember being in the computer lab and going, “I have no idea what she’s talking— and I know I’m not stupid.” So, I call one of my friends who’s now graduated from here, went to Penn State for law. And she is the first Black Deputy County Attorney in St. Augustine and the first Black Woman County. Her name is Regina Ross, and I call her and is like “Come meet me at the computer lab, and tell me what this means to you.” And the two of us sat there for like two days to try to edit one paragraph or sentence at a time. So, I was like, “I’m up for the challenge.” And she taught me how to think critically for the first time in my life. She taught me how to think globally for the first time in my life, because we’re so conditioned to just focus on





America. She gave me stuff in and outside of work, so I would have all of these odd things. “Pick up this for me. Go to the library, get “Daughters of the Dust.” I want you to look at it and tell me what’s going on. And then she’d throw some other stuff in there. And some of it might be stuff she needed, and some of it was just to teach me stuff. “Okay, come over. We’re gonna go for a walk and talk about “Daughters of the Dust.” And it opened my mind up in a whole different way. If I had never had that connection, I probably would’ve been still lost. And so, there are the things that when you are from a world in which you are insignificant to the world, but only as a worker bee, and they need you to be blind until somebody comes and turns the light on for you, you’ll never know. And we’re missing so many. Unless they happen to stumble into one of our classes, you know. Unless they happen to come run across you or cross my path some kind of way, we’re missing all these people. And it goes back to what I say. There’s needs that students of color have that are unmet, that the administration is unaware of they need whether it be willful, or ignorance, or just a lack of experience, as a person of color that aren’t being met. And that’s taxing on the few that are left. So, the less faculty of color, the less staff of color, the less need that’s being met. There’s so much that I do that has nothing to do with my job description. [Laughter] Nothing! But there’s community that Black people have that’s allowed us to make it this far. And what’s really sad to me is that they’re not getting in this community. Somehow we have to figure out how to unplug them; their dependency completely on social interaction being





through social media, and come back together as a group and have conversations and connect, because some of these people are gonna be friends that you’ll have for the rest of your life.

BA:  I want to ask you about the Black Campus Movement. I guess what you’re describing is when you were here at this time.

BU:  We were very active. We fought against the White Student Union. See, they weren’t able to sustain here. See, we got rid of that. As things happened, we talked about it. We were proactive about it. I saw a tenure of two Black Presidents of Student Government when I was here. And we’ve had, maybe, two since? [Laugher] You know what I mean? That’s problematic. We also had advocacy. We had more advocacy from faculty. We had more deans of color than we ever had, at the time. I know of about four or five that we had. We just walked in their door. “Hey, I need this.” “Hey, this is going on with me.” People very committed. Also, it’s not that you just have people that happen to be Black in positions of power, but you had what we call “Black people” [inaudible 26:01], and people who are advocating for the students. It’s not even encouraged anymore. They’ll tell you, “Hey. No, no, no. Don’t help them. Send them to us.”

BA: For the Black Campus Movement, when you were here, when you were a student, was it ever described the Black Campus Movement that preceded you all? So, sometimes we hear stories of Black Thursday, or maybe even the founding of African American Studies program? I’m not sure if, when





you were here as a student, were these Black Campus Movement stories known about?

BU:  I mean, we knew about it somewhat, but I don’t think we knew about it in the way that I know about it now.

BA:  And what do you think that is? Or, what was the experience like where that information was in?

BU:  Well, I’ll say this. The IBC was utilized a lot more when I was here. And so, there’s reasons why it’s stopped being utilized. It was allowed to—I need to know another building on campus that was allowed to be run down like that. I don’t understand. It’s campus property. Why would you allow mold to grow in it? Let that raid or type of thing. So it was just always some place we were always at. They never wanted the IBC here. Okay? Let’s just be honest. And that, I’ve heard from deans. From Black deans, “Oh, we know that they never really wanted the IBC here, the whole time.” There’s always been an attack to get rid of the IBC, you know? But we would have protested it, because we understood. We had a connection. We knew that we were in this experience together. So, it was easy for us to go, “Hey. This happened to so and so. We need to address this.” And then we could go to a dean that was Black that had some power, was able to say, “Hey. This is not gonna work. We’re not gonna tolerate this.” But we don’t really have that now, because we don’t have the connection to it. We also have a generation of people who believe they grew up in a post-racial society. So, they can’t even recognize racism when it’s happening. They think, “Oh, no. That’s just





individual.” So, when you get rid of groupthink and you splinter them, how you gonna come and talk about race as something that impacts all of us, as opposed to, “Oh, well that’s not really what happened. That was just a bad person that did that.” You see a decline in it, because one, there’s only a sprinkle here, and two, they’re disjointed, and then they have this post-racial ideology and they haven’t taken any classes to even open their mind to history, and to critical thinking, and to the Black experience that you need to Black people in America. Where I say all the time: who else was it written into law, that they were less than human?

BA: You mentioned a tax on IBC, that the University didn’t really want this building here. I was wondering if you can recall some of those events. Because I had heard as well from students in the early 2000s. They had mentioned how they’re trying to shut down the IBC and La Casita, so I’m not sure if you remember that, or any other—

BU:  Yeah. So, I remember. Let’s see what was it? So, after Williams Simmons left, he left. I don’t believe he retired; I think he went to another university. And then Alma Johnson was there until she retired, so we still had a full- time staff member. So then, they started hiring different directors. So what do you do as you lower the pay? And then higher qualifications, which most people aren’t going to settle for that amount of money. After they had a few of those and interim directors, they would call ‘em, then they started hiring grad students, or the spouses of people here for grad school. And so therefore, you’re going to have a higher turnover rate. You don’t have a





long-term. So then, one or two years, three years later, every other year, looks like we were getting a new interim director who was a grad student. And then when Alma retired, you don’t replace, you get rid of that line. So, you at least stabilize once again. I think it went from two full time lines. One on a dean’s level, one a full-time staff member ‘till you go to get rid of the dean’s level appointee over the IBC and you get a grad student, or somebody who’s part-time. And then when you shift it over to MCDA, your duties are not just for the IBC, for the MCDA. You have all the stuff you have to deal with them, too. So, you have dual which is going to make your pool smaller, too and it’s a less attractive job. And so then, you went from that to grad students. Every year or two was a new director. A new vision, a new this way, and you start to do that. And then we went from students that just work there to MCDA hires of students. So, when most of the students were Black, working at MCDA, you have Florida One come in who’s like, “You can’t do anything just Black.” You know? You can’t do anything based on race. So, then you took race completely out of—so now, you erased me. You don’t want to admit that you’ve erased me, but you’ve erased me. You’ve erased race from it. When you erase race from it, you erase people’s culture. And then you’re telling me I have no experience, but racism didn’t go anywhere, just race. And so, you had instability, and directions changing every year. And then you have students. And I think the print station thing was a way to say, “Oh, it’s not being used well.” I think making print stations in there, one, had people coming into our space that we needed to get away





from to get away from White gaze. Now, White gaze can come in. Now, White gaze also works in the IBC. And now, we can use the print station as a way to track how much it’s being used. And say, “Oh, this space is underused. Space allocation, it’s being underused. So, we need to build something closer. Let’s find a reason why it’s being underused. Oh, it’s so far away.” You know, when it’s never been that far away before, in all the years it’s been here. You know? And now we have the second space that’s smaller, that everybody shares, and call that our space away from White gaze, and it’s not. Black students need a space away from White gaze. Hispanic students want a space away from White gaze. Why is that a problem? And why do they need it? Because how many of them are here? What’s the percentage now? Do you even know? I don’t even know what this percentage is. It’s utterly ridiculous. But all the other spaces is predominately White. Now, I remember conversations about Black fraternities and sororities wanting a house, and over the years it was always an excuse. There wasn’t just that they didn’t have the money, because they had been approached. It was like, “Oh, well, you can’t build there.” And then two years later, there’s a new White fraternity/sorority house in that spot. You know?

BA:  And I’m curious because you mentioned being in the IBC when you were a student. I’m assuming, also, as a staff member you’ve been in the IBC, but now that the transition is at the BEC in the Reitz Union, what is the





difference that you perceive in that type of experience, when you don’t have a house and then a centralized space?

BU:  Well, I mean, I think it goes back to what you’re talking about. It’s full of gigs. So, you can’t have a conversation without it being monitored or controlled, that says, “Hey, look. This happened to me the other day. I don’t know where to go or who to talk to about it. Yada yada yada.” And then, I believe what you might need right away is comfort. It’s like possibly having a woman come talk about a possible sexual assault. Right? In a room and it’s all open, and the people that make the decisions about whether the sexual assault is heard is like this clear glass right there, so they can see and they’re gone. You know? And you can’t have some of the conversations you want to have. Or women that want to talk about things women talk about, without male gaze! Or it being sexualized, or whatever else. I think it denies the necessity that’s important to growth, and it’s important to emotional health. It’s important to feeling safe. It’s important to understanding how, as a Black person, do I navigate in this world? Who I am? Half of these people don’t know who they are. And then they take one of our classes, and go, “Oh, now it’s starting to make sense, some of my experiences.” “Oh, I come from greatness?” “Oh, we invented what?” You know, and you see the transition in them. It’s a joy to watch sometimes. It’s like, “Oh, I don’t need to straighten my hair?” “Oh“. And then their posture changes, and they get confident, and you see the self-love. You see the evolution of the self-love that comes from realizing you’re not all these stereotypes, or having to prove that you’re not





these stereotypes all the time, too, is exhausting. It’s exhausting to be Black. Now, every Black person will tell you that. It’s exhausting. Because this duality that we have to do. You see, what we call it is shifting. You’ll see videos about that that are like “Okay, girl. Okay, got to put my little show on” to deal with fragility.

BA: And I want to go back to what you were mentioning about—you had mentioned Nikitah Imani. Was that the Loyal Order of the ’99?

BU:  I mentioned what? I’m sorry.



	BA:	Nikitah Imani? Earlier, you had mentioned Nikitah Imani. BU:	Uh-huh.

	BA:	I was wondering about the Loyal Order of the 99. I’m not sure if you remember that organization, but I know he was a part of it.

	BU:	Mhm. Where was it?



	BA:	It’s in the [19]90s and Nikitah Imani—



	BU:	Oh. And Nikitah—yeah, yeah, yeah. I remember [laughter].



BA:  —and you mentioned about David Padgett. I was wondering, because what I was saying earlier. As a student here, I had never heard about the Black Campus Movement ever talked about.

BU:  Oh, really. Okay.



BA:  And so, coming here to the oral history program, I had heard about Nikitah Imani, and then I learned about the Loyal Order of the ’99. And so, just wondering, there’s so much Black Campus Movement History, but—

BU:  We don’t talk about it, and it’s quiet.





BA:  —Yeah. So, I don’t know if you have anything to share about the Loyal Order of the ’99, or if you remember that organization, or have heard of the BAM movement. I’m not sure if you—

BU:  Yeah. I remember BAM. I remember BAM. [Laughter]



BA: So, we don’t have any history currently on [inaudible 38:37]. BU:  Oh, really? Have you spoken to Nikitah?

	BA:	We have some interviews with him, and I heard about David Padgett but— BU:	You should also reach out to, I think she may have gotten married, but her boyfriend was dating Michelle Collins at the time. See if you could find her.

And she’ll maybe give you a lot more insight to that. I spent a lot of time doing a lot of—we did so much. It’s just so much, I don’t even know where to start. I do remember a few instances that we had also. I had some friends…so the area back there now, that they call “Midtown” we used to call “The Student Ghetto.” I don’t know if you knew that. And there was a lot of smaller properties or whatever and where Krispy Kreme Donuts is, there was a house there before they built the apartment complexes; the orange. There was white house that all of the Kappa Alpha Psi, a Black fraternity, it wasn’t really their house, but they rented it out, and so they always kept members in it. We used to call it the Kappa House. We used to have parties there, and so we walk over from campus and go to the party over there. And one day, some KKK members came to some of my friends and I. We split, and different terrorizers chased some of my friends and I, and we split and different terrorizers headed to the house. I do remember that happening.





So, we had incidents. And then I remember we met up, we got there, people went looking to see if we could find them, but we couldn’t find them. Once again, I think it goes back to community. I remember we had small victories. One of my friends was one of the first Black Dazzlers. The parade was big for us, too. We took pride in making the BSU floats, and everybody came together, whether you were in BSU or not, came together to spend time working on the BSU float. That was [inaudible 41:08] and we all participated in that, and the MLK march. Yeah. We had small flare-ups, but I think we were so organized, we were able to shut stuff down kind of quickly, if that makes sense. Yeah. So, Nikitah walked around like I said, like a Black Panther. [Laughter] He did, he had his boots. He would wear a tam to the side with his red, black, and green. We supported him, though. Yeah, we did.

	BA:	Do you remember anything about BAM, at all?



BU:  I don’t remember a whole lot about that. It’s just ‘cause so much stuff. I do know that when I first came to work for African American studies, they were gonna zero fund them that year. The next year, I think it was 2005, 2006, supposedly there was this big deficit in College of Liberal Arts and Sciences. And the some student workers we had had started National Council for Negro Women again. Some young ladies: Velouse Dorestin and her sister Venice Dorestin, and Laura Case. They started the campus chapter of National Council of Negro Women. They went on and they organized a student protest to not zero-fund through the state, African American studies.





And so what they did is they marched from Turlington to the foundation, which was across the street, and they filled out forms. But their protest was that each person give exactly one dollar, so that they actually had to process every single one, and it tied up their day. You know? A hundred, two hundred people with a dollar. And it was through that protest that we’re still here until this day. Ntozake Shange was a faculty member. When I first came here, she was here for a couple of years, and she taught a “Women of Color and Poetry” course for us and a Women Studies joint appointment. She was very humble and one of the sweetest people you’ll ever meet. If you would meet her, and you would tell her about, “Oh, my grandmother.” She will remember every single detail and stop and ask you about it. One of the most beautiful people. I remember taking a class with, he taught Children’s Literature, James Askins, who wrote over two hundred books. Ridiculous, right? He was hilarious, and this is the kind of bold Black people that we had; professors and deans on campus. He would do introductions in class, and he would say, “Where are you from?” And it didn’t matter where you were from. He’d be like, “Oh, they still hang Black folk there?” That type of thing. Yeah.

BA:  Have you heard of any student—because I’m not sure if there were student protests related to the founding of African American Studies. I’m not sure if you’ve ever heard the history of that.

BU: So, I came to work for African American Studies in 2004. When I came, Marilyn Thomas Houston was interim director. Before that, Daryl Scott was





director. He had left and went back to Howard. And then before that, we had Ronald Foreman, who tried to keep it on a wing and a prayer thirty years. So, from my own understanding, is the IBC was connected to…So, the principles are the IBC, and out of student protests was not just that the IBC be addressed, but the African American Studies would also be funded, too. And that was a part of the charge, and ABA’s charge also is to make sure that these two things are funded and still going. I think that’s lost in conversation with history. ‘Cause, you know, it’s a primary [inaudible 45:55] where everybody goes and they like to put a spin on it. So, part of the charges Black student enrollment, the IBC retention funded and taken care of properly, and African American Studies is correlated in that. It was a program. It still is a program. When I came, they had a certificate in African American Studies only. That was in 2004. Then, we got the minor, and then the major came out of protests. But typically what we have happen at UF or something terrible happens, so then a deal is cut, and they pretend to be committed to diversity, and something gets passed. Because we have been…so, under Faye Harrison tenure, under Marilyn Thomas tenure, we had been pushing for the African American Studies major for years and was getting the run-around. A lot of people realize that. We did so many drafts of a proposal, and what happens is that they work on it, they work on it, and they work on it. They submit it, it has to go to college curriculum, pass that, pass the dean’s office, and then go through that. Then the provost has to look at it, then it has to go back. We kept getting for years. For years like





our proposal. We saw proposals that were like two pages long. Our proposal was a hundred or some pages long. And then they’d be like “Oh,” and then they’d hold it at the provost level and say, “Oh, okay. Well, this form has changed, so you just got to take this one table out, put that table in, because they changed the tables now.” So, we send it right back, and it sit there at that level again for six to eight weeks, sometimes three months, or to the end of the semester, and then they don’t do anything in the summer, and you have to wait until the fall. You turn it about halfway through the fall, we send it back, and be like “Oh, they changed this. Oh, changed that.” And we did that for like five, six years, trying to get the major. And then the blackface incident happened, and then they gon’ push it through.

BA:  [Inaudible 48:14]



BU: And that wasn’t the only blackface incident that semester, you know? BA:  I didn’t hear, if you wanted to share that?

BU: Yeah, so, that wasn’t the only party that had happened. There had been three that semester. So, that happened. I was President of ABFS. We had about twenty something young men in two different organization accused of hazing. Most of them were supposed to graduate that year. Either that semester, or that next semester. And they went on campus and arrested them on campus. Some of them had their mugshots taken on the set. They went to their workplace, they went to their homes, and then they trespassed them from campus before they even had a Student Honor Court meeting. And they were trying to expel all of them. And we had to organize to try to





make sure that they all walked across that stage. And we were able to do that.

BA: So, I guess more contemporarily now, in the 2000s, the [inaudible 49:25] movement, the Dream Defenders, I’m not sure if you have other organizations or anything you want to talk about.

BU:  I remember when Kofi was shot, and we assisted with that. And that was a lot of organizations coming together, so that ABFS coming together with some community organizations, and we created a organization to address that. And what really assisted—you’re aware of the Kofi being shot, what happened at Corry Village?

BA:  If you want to explain it.



BU:  Okay. There was a grad student from Ghana who was living in Corry Village, which I used to live in Corry Village. He was living at Corry Village at the time, and somebody called into 9-1-1 and well, one of the calls was that they heard a woman scream. Another call was that he was having some issues. Now, he had sent out an e-mail too, earlier that people were alarmed, supposedly on the list-serv. They came out earlier in the day to address him, and they said, “Okay. He’s okay.” The chair of the department and the counselor came out and assessed him, and then they went home. And then there was a 9-1-1 call, and that’s what activated and triggered the response. There was a man, who was on the force, who had been fired from the Gainesville Police Department, because he was going around in a predominately Black area of town, and throwing eggs and stuff at the people





as they walked down the street. So, he had gotten fired for doing that. So, he was hired by the University for UPD. That was a good fit. And so, they responded with a tactical team, a SWAT team, to campus housing. Surrounded him, wanted him to come out, and they kicked in the door and shot him with AR-15s. Shot off part of his mouth, part of his hand. So, how I found out about it, is I got a call from some community people, and we had an emergency meeting off campus at, I think it was right off Fifth Avenue area. We talked about it that night, and about finding a lawyer, and the family came and approached us. And then, what was instrumental was the filming from the people at residence. It was the people in Corry Village that were disgusted by what happened, that got it to the people. Some community organizers, and they took footage, and they were outraged about what happened. They arrested Kofi. They didn’t let his family have access to him in the hospital. He was handcuffed to the bed, and his mouth was half gone, so he’s not even able to talk right. But what they didn’t realize, is that Kofi had a big family here. They thought he was a random African student but he had family that many generations that were here studying, that were in grad school that worked here at the University in different capacities. They didn’t expect that support system that he had, so it goes back to what we talk about: support systems. So, they got out to us, and we talked to them. Jeremy Tattersal was involved in it, and Beto. Beto was very instrumental. We all worked together, and we had meetings with the D.A. We had meetings with the President of the University, by themselves and together.





And we came up with a really interesting strategy when they were trying to cover it up. So, one of the strategies, we pulled the numbers from the shootings on the campus. We pulled the number of crimes on campus. And so, during the summer, they like to sweep stuff and it gets quiet. The interesting strategy we came up, we thought about it, we pulled the numbers. So, we pulled the right numbers on campus, sexual assault numbers on campus from the data, which were alarmingly high. And so, what we did is we put ‘em on the little handout sheet, and when Preview was here with the parents, we started handing ‘em out. Hand ‘em out to the parents, you know? And they’d be like, “What?” That got us a seat at the table. I think that was one of the most strategic things that we did. Then, we were able to set up a meeting and say, “Hey, look. We don’t want charges pressed. This guy has problematic history. This is what needs to happen. We were able to get the family in to see them, and we were able to just keep pushing it in the media. Wasn’t the result we’d like to have, but the family was able to settle, and they dropped the charges against him. The sad part is that the police officer was not fired because of what happened; they justified it. They accused him of having a metal pole, and it was his cane. He had polio since he was a kid. Trying to say he was swinging at ‘em. When we look at the trajectory, he was covering his face to keep from getting shot. It just was utterly... And once again, as we see, problematic is this mystery call to 9-1-1 that was the catalyst of all of it, when you get to





hide behind a phone call and practice racism that results sometimes in our death. But, that was part of an organizing that I was able to see.

	BA:	Now, African American Studies is going towards becoming a program— BU:	A department.

	BA:	A department, sorry. Was that related to anything in that regard? BU:	Through the protests?

	BA:	Yeah, or just n.



	BA:	A department, sorry. Was that related to anything in that regard? BU:	Through the protests?

	BA:	Yeah, or just now—



BU: Yeah. I think student protests also—students are powerful. They’re more powerful than they realize they are. They have a lot more strength. I can see part of that is students saying, “Hey, hey. Look. This is what we need.” Just like they did to get the major. They’re like, “Look, no. We need a major in African American Studies.” And it’s one of the most successful majors in the country. There’s been more students than any other program in the country. More majors, and we graduate about thirty or so more a year, and keep more coming in. It goes back to what I say. There was an unmet need that you didn’t know was there. I think we’ve been accused of stealing majors. I don’t know how you steal a major. The fact that you would say that we steal majors to Black program, and not see what’s wrong with that is utterly fascinating to me. But most of our majors go on to grad school and they did well one way or another. PhDs, med school, vet school, we had a





couple of zoology majors. You can use African American Studies just intertwines with so many different research areas and things. So, I think the students like, “Hey, we want this. It’s long overdue. We need this, and look, we’re using this! And it’s successful, and we’re doing great.” Yeah, I think it came out of some of the protests. I think NoLaIbcita… that was one of the finer things I’ve ever seen. That group, I have to say, they were some of the most organized, educated, community-centered, humble. You know, sometimes they try to say brown and Black people aren’t getting along, and I didn’t see any of that. They were like, “Look. We have a common cause. We’re gonna come together. We’re gonna take our skillsets, and we’re gonna use it.” They did their homework, they were creative, and brilliant, and they were ostracized in a way they should not have been ostracized. And they weren’t celebrated. All the time, we love to recreate our social justice warriors after death or after they’re long gone, and not celebrate them for being courageous in the moment and thinking outside the box in the moment, and being able to see the big picture. I’m gonna proclaim it here: that group of seventeen, when you watch and see what they’re gonna do over their life or their careers, you will quote me. You’re gonna come back and be like, “Oh my God. We were sitting in front of greatness.” I love them. I supported them in any way that I could. I’m watching them grow. They’re phenomenal, and they know what they’re doing. And we need more people like that. I wish that their peers and university had appreciated them in a different way, because what they’re asking for is space. Space for





people that look like them that’s needed in a place that’s not for them in the same way that they need it, you know? So, that was a wonderful, beautiful thing to watch.

BA: I don’t have any other questions, but if there’s anything that we didn’t discuss that you’d like to discuss further?

BU:  I’m trying to remember. There’s so many. I wish we could go back to—let’s talk about the music. The music choices by the University, the Black music choices that are coming here. I remember seeing Biggie at the band show, where you call “Flavet Field” now. I saw Biggie when he first came. I remember us going, “He’s gonna die in that suede suit here in the sun.” Do they still have Reggae Sun Splash here?

BA:  I’m not sure.



BU:  The Caribsa, they used to have a reggae festival at Flavet Field on the band show. Method Man. The music selection is so stereotypical for me. It’s like there’s only just one, and I’d love for you to bring more conscious through— not just, but inclusive. I think it’s like everything else that disappears when the culture disappears. When the people disappear, the culture disappears, the more invisible you make the culture. And then, when you’re coming to the table and making decisions, those decisions need to also have people who are not being controlled but who are—so, if ninety percent of the people at the table making decisions about Blackness and Black History Month and those people that don’t look like us are not being controlled. The lack of control I wish… understand you can celebrate it with different visions. We’re





still trying to bring Angela Davis, and we’re getting blocked at every try. But yet, we look at Birmingham. They were to do the right thing, and turn around and do the right thing and say, “Okay. You know what? Let this happen. This was wrong. Let this happen.” I’d like to see more of that. You know? You have this one viewpoint. You’re controlling this population with this viewpoint. Let the scholars go and say, “Hey, this is what happens when you allow this to happen. Growth happens.” We’re not trying to over-run their board. We just want voice to the voiceless.

BA:  One question I had, when you mention control. I’ve kind of heard something similar, so I’m not sure if this is what you mean by it, if you want to explain it. But sometimes the students I’ve heard talk about that type of sense of you’re in an organization, you’re kind of controlled, you’re told what to select. Students have mentioned that about SG, so I’m not sure if you want to expand on that—

BU:  Yeah, so I think what I saw shift is if you take student government. So, they started kind of pushing students even more, because we’ve always had the fight for SG presidency, and it just never worked out, but once. But so what happens is when student organizations are takin’ SG money now, they’re kinda, “Oh, you should be Student Government funded.” Everything goes through Student Government, and when Student Government is being controlled by the University, indirectly or directly, then you can’t… so I’ve seen people say—okay, let me give you an example: MLK. MLK banquet used to be done by Black Graduate Student Organization. What they would





do is they would send out invitations by tables. So, BGS would do the banquet dinner on MLK’s birthday or that Monday was celebrated. And how they paid for the speaker was through tables, and that brought more community involvement, so all the Black community organizations or random people wanted to get a table or seat at the dinner at the time. So, let’s say African American Studies would buy three tables. We’d have our faculty and guests at other student tables. NAACP Gainesville would have so many tables. We had Amiri Baraka, Angela Davis back to back, if she had been allowed back since. After Angela Davis and the President of the University at the time walked out in the middle of her speech, the next year, we had the MLK committee. We’re going to do a whole MLK celebration that lasts six weeks. And we’re gonna bring these people to the table, and these people to the table. We’re sending invitations to certain Black people and say, “Hey, do you want to come to the table?” So, SG’s at the table, Accent’s at the table, MCDA is at the table. All the representatives of the different areas: the IBC person, La Casita, LGBTQ, all these different student leaders are at the table. So, ninety percent of the table is empowered, ten percent is not. You bring in MLK commission seats to the table. I participated once, and then I said “I’m not doing it again.” ‘Cause I came to the table, and the conversation was to bring Ice-T for the Black MLK speaker. Dick Gregory was the least amount on the list, I think, [inaudible 1:05:40]. So, I asked him questions. And I’m like, “Dick Gregory is seven thousand dollars. He’s had a lifelong commitment to service for





decades.” And it was shot down. Then, we talked about the Day of Service. And I said, “How is that connected?” “What does that Day of Service look like, to the student?” “Oh, we meet up at the Reitz Union or wherever on campus and we just send people all over the city to do service.” “Okay, what are the service projects? What areas are you going to?” “Just different places.” “How is it connected to MLK’s vision, legacy, life work, body, purpose, testament, something?” Triple Access [inaudible 1:06:27] something [laughter]. “Oh, it’s not.” And so, I said, “Okay. This is a show, so we can control who the speaker is. We don’t have too many controversial people that upset donors or whoever runs the show. It was done to control the community now, and their engagement. It controls who comes and speaks. It controls the narrative. It controls all those things. That’s how you see that happen. That’s how you get a stronghold over the students and organizations. If the advisor of an organization is told, “Hey. No. You’re not doing that,” then you don’t do that, or you don’t take the money. You earn the money on your own, which is a scam. So what happens to Student Organizations is once you take that money, like you see outside, once you take that money, you’re beholden to the money holder. Same thing you saw with the board, right? “Oh, we gave you money. Angela Davis can’t come speak here. We don’t like what she’s saying.” If you give up the money, then you have more freedom. And they’re not funding it. I told you how great our BSU; our Black History Month was. I see a difference. Look historically over the Black History Month speakers in the [19]80s and [19]90s. Look at the





[19]90s to 2000s, and watch where it shifted. Look at the concerts. I saw so many great concerts here, it was ridiculous. It was ridiculous. Black Eyed Peas when they first came, a brand new band. All at the band show, all for free. Busta Rhymes, L.L., all for free.

BA:  Do you think it has anything to do with—at a certain point, I guess, students became more incorporated into… was there a point where there wasn’t so much University control with the organizations of students?

BU: Yeah, I think so. It depends on who’s SG President, who’s appointed to ACCENT. I also think it’s… do you know you’re missing something? It’s just education, too. I think the more educated we become, the better decisions we can make. The music has changed, too. I think there’s no balance. There’s just an oversaturation of one or the other. But, we can make better choices than ASAP Rocky, all of the same. There’s other people out there that are singing some… that you can bring for Black History Month. Some better speakers. If we have the balance of the conservative, we can have the balance of Black Conscious, too. If Ann Coulter can come here and speak, and Angela Davis can’t, something’s wrong.

BA:  I don’t have any other questions. Did you have anything else you’d like to talk about?

	BU:	No.



	BA:	Okay. Cool.



	M:	Actually, can you speak more on your experiences with the IBC?





BU:  Oh, okay. So, when I came here, I came with my daughters when they were young; they were two and five. They know a lot of the people, because they grew up here, because wherever I went they went, and that type of thing. The IBC has so many memories. We had a kitchen in there, too. We would just go in there and cook, or hang out, watch T.V. and talk. All the organizations had meetings there. Like I said, I met Stokely Carmichael there. It was also a place where if we wanted to get together and talk about an incident that happened, we could organize and communicate, and figure out what we were gonna do. For not having that space for Homecoming. For Homecoming it was important, because we could have cookouts there. We could watch the parade there, and that’s where we worked on the float. You know what I mean? We could have access to it. You could have access to it twenty-four hours a day. So, we worked on the float in shifts. Does that make sense? Who’s going to shift for the next year for the float? Because it was important that we had that float, and that we were all near that float. I remember Ms. Johnson and just sitting there and talking to them. I remember Dr. Simmons, who was faculty advisor for a lot of our organizations, and having conversations with him there. And even just recently, ABFS and Black alumni, we sponsored a Homecoming Social and cookout and food, and whatever for them, so we could have a space on University Avenue. Where Black alumni can come and congregate, and staff, and the faculty, and the students together, because it’s important that we bond. And that they know, “Hey. This is a space that we can come to.”





We had ceremonies. My daughter did a mural in there once. She’s now an artist, and she did a mural in there that was upstairs in the bathroom. She did that because she grew up—she knows the place, and she’s fond of it, and it brings back memories. She remembers running around in there, and being in there. We had our student meetings in the libraries. Okay, so here’s something. There was a library that was in there that was important, where the faculty and staff and people donated books and artifacts. I’m not sure where the artifacts are now. A lot of that was put in storage, or tossed away over the different remodelings that happened… and here’s something that’s significant. So, I had gotten a call because I took a lot of the books from the library, and they sent it to the library, and the library sent it to their storage. And I got a call from a woman that used to be our African American Studies librarian who’s not anymore. She had a promotion. However, she was like, “Look, I have this journal of Negro history here, that they’re about to toss. Do you want it?” I’m like, “Do I want it? You understand the significance of what’s in there, right?” So, before, there was [inaudible 1:14:07] Du Bois, because they had no Black journals for just Black scholars. They had to create their own Black journals, because they couldn’t get published in a lot of the White journals. So, they took their early writings of these amazing scholars, and they created their own bound-set of journals that they put together. That was about to be thrown away! So, I was like, “Yes. African American Studies “and if you ever want to look at it, it’s right there in African American Studies. Some of our faculty, Faye Harrison, Thomas [inaudible





1:14:44] are coming up, and are like “Oh my God. This person? That person?” It’s phenomenal. And they were gonna throw it away. I was like, “No. We’ll keep it. We’ll keep the collection at African American Studies.” These are the people who made the foundation of which the discipline is written on today. Their first works, their graduate study works, the research and the scholarship in that bound-set is incredible. Those are the types of things that we don’t know that we’re missing. Once again, we go back to people denying what you’re saying, or not understanding that there’s a need that you don’t understand, because it’s not a need that you’ve ever had to experience. You’ve never had to experience being the only one in a room based on race, and the history attached to the race. [Inaudible 1:14:45] four hundred years attached to those. You know? It’s easy to say that. I also want to talk about the most invisible people on campus, and that’s the staff. I think the staff is the most invisible people on this campus. And looking at Black staff, now? Yeah, we can end on this. I did a spreadsheet to find out how underpaid I am, compared to my peers. It’s as much as seventy-three percent. You look at most Black staff members, they retire thirty years later with the same title that they started at the University with. I realize one of my directors that I’ve been in African American Studies for fifteen years now. Before that I was in Neurosurgery; I worked in the Department of Neurosurgery. I’ll have worked permanently with UF, it’ll be twenty-one years in August. Twenty straight years. I left and did OPS work one year, because I did community building with cops here, and then I came back to





my permanent position. So, twenty-one years permanently with UF. And mind you, I’ve worked in other OPS before that. I still have the same title “Program Assistant,” that I had when I started. And if you look at most Black staff, because we talk to each other, we can’t get promotions. Every last director I’ve had have asked for a promotion for me, and it’s been denied at the dean’s level. What happens is every year that you don’t get a promotion, you only get a raise exponentially over time, I get further and further behind my peers. You watch them get promotion and promotion and promotion. So, when we talk about that, we talk about faculty and tenure promotion, but we don’t talk about staff. We talk about students, but who gets left out in that is the staff, which is your first point of contact as a student. I stay in African American Studies because they’re paying me. I stay here because there have been times in between, that I felt like if I left, the mainstay—you can get rid of my position. The same thing that happened to IBC, right? You get rid of the staff. Now, you can destabilize the whole unit. Where they’re usually the first person there and the last person to leave. We see students come and go. Students come and talk to us all the time. We help them in so many different ways. One of the only units where it’s only one full-time person. People don’t realize that so I have to do everything, whereas other departments might have people that just do travel, just do H.R., just do finances, just do student course scheduling. I have to do everything: event planning, event build-up, event take-down, reconciliation. It’s really sad in how we treat the least amongst us is a reflection of who we are as a society.





My daughter just started working for the city about a year and a half ago for GRU, through the city. she’s about to make the same thing I do in the year and a half that I made twenty years at UF. Yeah. So, we do the labor of love, because we care about the people, but staff, they get left behind a lot in all of this.

BA:  Not sure if this is related, I’ve always heard something about unionizing and how it’s hard for staff members to do.

BU:  Yeah it is. I’ve looked into this. So, there was a union here for the staff some time ago, but that person either left the University or retired out, and then it didn’t get re-initiated with the union. And so, they’re afraid. Especially with the way the teams is set up now. They can renew your contract, or get rid of it, so people are afraid of being targeted if they organize to create the union again for the staff. So, what happens is when the faculty, they do think about us, but when the faculty negotiates, they think about them of course. They’re there to organize for themselves first and then, we get… say they got a two percent raise, two point five, then they get the additional one point five for merit on top. We just get the base of whatever that everybody gets, and we get less than. So, we’re not moving at the same increments as faculty, of course. We need to think about that, because in the process what has happened? We had this initiative to hire all of these people, what are you gonna do for staff? You’re hiring all these people, but you’re not hiring the staff to go with it. So, you’re gonna get all this additional work for us. But I was staggered when I crunched the numbers of how far behind I was with





my peers. At the low end, I’m like seven thousand. At the high end, I’m like twenty-some. Most of them, ninety percent of them have other people that help them with their job. Yeah. Look around. See how your Black staff are being treated.

BA:  So, I’m guessing approaches would be organizing, perhaps, for students to do. I’m not sure. Because you’re mentioning maybe through the University, they’re already set up a certain way where people may not do that, but I don’t know… the University is not gonna just do it, they’re has to probably be a demand for it.

BU:  Yeah. For sure.



BA:  Do you see a solution that probably student protesting? Or, I don’t know if you had—

BU:  I thought about that. I don’t even know how that could happen. Like I said, for one I think we end up being… we’re visible, but we’re kind of invisible at the same time, because your focus is mainly faculty members. You know what I mean? You’re the point of contact to do the work. We’re worker bees for everybody. You know? People don’t pay attention to the worker bees in that aspect. Or are like, “Hey. Are they taking care of you?” Only other advocacy I can think would be through the union. For the faculty union to go, “Hey, wait. Why aren’t our staff unionized. How can we make sure they’re unionized and not targeted and protect them at the same time?” I think that’s the only way I can think of that happening, if they felt we can be





protected. Yeah. They’ve got buy-in, complete buy-in. Good question. [Laughter]

	BA:	So, thank you for coming in today and speaking with us. BU:	All right. Okay.





[End of Interview]



Transcribed by:

Bianka Ramirez;

May 28th, 2019

Audit-edited by:

Sandra Romero

June 11th, 2019

Final-edited by:

Charity Kelly

May 17, 2020