AAHP 272; Armbrister; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 272 Hazel Armbrister African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on July 14, 2012 44 minutes | 20 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Ms. Hazel Armbrister’s covers her family’s migration to Perry, Florida and discusses a few of her family members’ particular life stories. She delves into her educational background, including the jobs she held after leaving Perry and outlines her eventual career as an educator in Broward County, being the first person to be issued a GED in Broward County. In speaking of this, Ms. Armbrister details the ways in which her master’s degree, from the University of South Florida, helped her as an educator. Additionally, she reflects on her involvement in the community, including with her church, St. Nicholas Episcopal Church in Pompano Beach. Finally, she speaks of her affiliation with the Democratic Party and its importance to her, and expresses her sentiments on the reelection campaign of President Obama.



[Keywords: African American History; Perry; Taylor County; Broward County]







































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 272

Interviewee: Hazel Armbrister Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: July 14, 2012



	W:	This is Marna Weston for the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program on July 14, 2012 at the Jerkins High School mass reunion in Perry, Florida. I’m interviewing Ms. Hazel Armbrister. Ms. Armbrister, thank you very much for speaking with me today.

	A:	You’re welcome.



	W:	Would you please say and spell your complete name?



	A:	Hi, I’m Hazel Dell Kelley Armbrister. H-A-Z-E-L, D-E-L-L, K-E-L-L-E-Y, A-R-M-B- R-I-S-T-E-R.

	W:	Would you please tell your date and place of birth?



	A:	I was born September 6, 1931 on Malloy Avenue in Perry, Taylor County, Florida.

	W:	And, who are your mother and father?



	A:	My father: Joe Kelley. My mother: Cora Jean Williams Kelley. W:	Do you recall their dates of birth?

	A:	My father’s birth date is December 1, 1899. My mother’s birth date December 26, 1899.

	W:	And, where were they from?



	A:	They came to Taylor County—well, my father came from Georgia by way of Greenville, Florida and then he came into Perry. My mother, left Georgia, went to Apalachicola, came to Perry by way of St. Marks; that’s where the boat landed.

	W:	What is this boat that you speak of? Where did the boat originate?





	A:	This was, I guess, a ferry boat that ferried people from Apalachicola, the state park, to these areas in the panhandle of Florida. And, to get to Perry from Apalachicola, the boat was the, I guess the cheapest or easiest way. I have a brother that was older than me and he was living with my mom, her sister and her husband in Apalachicola while my father came to Perry to work. Bernice Swatson sought me up and my father continued to work there until he died November 16, 1938 here in Perry, Florida.

	W:	What was your brother’s name and do you have any other brothers and sisters?



And, if so, please name and list them.



	A:	I had four brothers. My oldest brother was Ernest Lloyd Joe Kelley. My next brother Early Price Kelley. My third brother, Samuel Louis Kelley. And, my youngest brother is Vernon Sorrel Crown. I have two sisters: Altherenease Kelley Gamble and Marguerite “Baby Jo” Kelley Luster. Those are my siblings.

	W:	I’d like to ask you about your parents’ parents. What you may remember about them. First on your dad’s side. Who are his parents?

	A:	His parents is, I think, [inaudible 3:47] and Melissa Kelley. They were his adopted parents. His birth parents are Early Cleveland and Mariah Smart Cleveland.

They were from Georgia, Greater County, Georgia.



	W:	Do you know the circumstances of why his biological parents allowed him to be adopted?

	A:	Because his biological mother passed away and his father could not survive with four children and a baby she left him with. And so, the family stepped in and took





the two younger children that was the youngest sister and my father. And they were reared by relatives.

	W:	On your mother’s side, who were her parents?



	A:	Her parents were Douglas Williams—that was her father. Her mother was—oh, God, what’s grandma’s name? [Laughter] Creasy Walker Williams. She was a Walker. She was born someplace in Gadsden County. And, she met my grandfather in the area. They moved into Georgia and then they moved to Florida later.

	W:	Do you have any knowledge of any ancestors preceding the ones we’ve already talked about?

	A:	There is a great-grandmother. The name that she’s buried under is Margaret Walker Nixon. We have been told that she came to the area, and when I say the area that could be from Jacksonville back to Gadsden County. She was a young girl brought as a slave, without any parents or any relatives. And so, when she might have been in her teens working in the fields, she didn’t work fast enough and so she was beaten with a whip that broke her leg and she always walked with a limp. But, her grandchildren, my mother and her sisters and brothers,always told us about her speech pattern and how it was—. English was not her first language, in other words.

	W:	What is your earliest memory of receiving an education? And where did that take place?

	A:	Well, if you’re speaking about formal, it was in Burnham and Swartz Mill quarters here in Perry. The mill built a building next to a house; it was for the children that





lived in the Mill quarters because there was no school. A teacher was brought in to teach; her name was Lila, L-I-L-A, Gertrude Jones. She came from Ocala, Florida. I watched them build the building and when it was opened and the first day she came, I went to visit and, after that, when the kids in the community came, and I would go and my mom would come to retrieve me, she would say, “Okay, leave her alone.” And so, she was my very first formal teacher and she was also my fifth grade teacher.

	W:	Was there a specific name of that school or was it just the mill school—?



	A:	No, no, no—it was Mills property in that time. It didn’t—when, in 1936, we had moved into our house—my dad had built us a house right around the corner from here—and, by that time, Jerkins High had been built. It’s always had been Jerkins as far as I know. And, the building was a wooden building that had two—I call them ears—on either side which was rooms with the middle being the auditorium, the book room and—what else?—a stage. So, it was the auditorium. Anyway, that school burned down when I was in fifth grade—yeah, fifth grade.

	W:	Where there any unusual circumstances surrounding the burning down of the school? Was it an accident or was it considered intentional?

	A:	Well, it was done at a time when we were not in school and so, anytime an incident like that happens, it’s always speculations as to how it happened, who was the instigators—I wouldn’t like to say what people said but there were insinuations that it might not have been of natural causes.

	W:	So you went to Jerkins from that time until you graduated? A:	No.





	W:	No? Okay.



	A:	When the school burned down, the community then had to look for housing for the school children. And we were in the churches, we were in the Stockton barbershop, we were in Fixer’s juke, we were in the Knights of Pythias Hall, and we got a clay basketball court, and—

	W:	Fixer’s juke. So, a juke meaning kind of a bar where people— A:	Yeah, yeah.

	W:	So, who was Fixer?



	A:	Fixer was a person that provided that kind of service in the community. He was a man that was—that was the kind of work he liked and he provided. So, on weekends and other times, you could go there and get a drink alcohol, dance, music. Have a piccolo and music was loud. We’d always hear it out the door.

And, with us being children of parents that did not frequent places like that we were always told to stay away. But then, when we had to go to school in the building, because the men readily got together and built benches for us to sit on—very inconvenienced, compared to today—I finished ninth grade, was supposed to move to tenth grade and, of course, my dad had passed away and there was no work and so, I needed to find a place where I could help my mom provide for my two sisters and my brother and so, I left Perry. I did not graduate from Perry.

	W:	When you left ninth grade, what did you do then? A:	Picked tobacco.

	W:	Okay.





	A:	Cropped tobacco. W:	Okay.

	A:	Sold tobacco.



	W:	Okay.



	A:	All right. Worked in restaurants. Worked in White people’s houses. I left Madison—that’s where I had ended up, in Madison, Florida and my work that I was doing there, I did maid work during the day and in the afternoon, three o’clock, I would go take the little White girl to the park and keep her until her mom was ready to prepare dinner. When I left Madison, I went to Oakland Park, Florida. And I was making thirteen dollars between the two jobs.

	W:	Would you be willing to discuss that family that you worked for in Madison? To give a few more details about that particular part of your life?

	A:	The family’s name was Clyatt—C-L-Y-A-T-T. She was a seamstress at home. He was the station master for the, I just—the South Georgia railroad. It still—

	W:	South Georgia Pacific?



	A:	No, it wasn’t Pacific. South Georgia Railroad that runs from Perry to Thomasville.



	The tracks are still down. We saw them on the way here. [Laughter] W:	How did you find out about that particular job?

	A:	That I have not retained. That I have not retained, but my responsibility was to go in by nine o’clock, wash the breakfast dishes, anything we saw [inaudible 13:18], make the lunch because Mr. Clyatt would walk from his station to his house for lunch, walk back to his station and his finish his day. I would clean up the lunch dishes and then I go pick up his kid and take her out.





	W:	Did you see that movie The Help which came out recently? A:	Uh-huh.

	W:	Is that a fairly accurate depiction or how would you say that laid out? A:	Somewhat.

	W:	How did reality differ from what we saw in that movie?



	A:	Not an awful lot. It didn’t take a lot of . . . they did a lot in it, more than I thought would’ve been in it. They really did.

	W:	At Oakland Park, what kind of work did you do there?



	A:	I went to work in the bean field, picking beans something I knew nothing about because I had been told by this lady that came to visit during the Christmas that if you come to South Florida to the Gulf Coast, that’s what they were calling the area from Palm Beach down to Miami at the time, you’ll be able to make money. Well, I wanted to make money to help my mom with my two sisters and my brother to get them through school. I didn’t know that it would be picking beans.

	W:	What was the lady’s name that recommended that work to you?



	A:	Catherine Brannon Bale and she and I remained friends until she passed away two years ago.

	W:	I’m very sorry for your loss.



	A:	Yeah, I’m sorry for the world’s loss because they didn’t get to know her.



	W:	What is it about her, besides your friendship, that you think about so warmly that would lead you to say that the world has lost? What particular attributes about her do you recall?





A:  Well, she’s a person that never had a child and yet, she was very giving to—she had young sisters and brother, nieces and nephews that she was very cordial to. And then, many other people in and around where she lived.

W:  Did she affect your life in such a way that you tried to live the same way to help others?

A:   I would think so. I would think so.



	W:	And that’s what you’re describing as far as your family right now. So, you spent a good deal of that period, adolescence and early adulthood, working to help your family.

	A:	Yes. Yes.



	W:	How did that impact them? What are some of the things that happened to their lives that you feel you helped started? Not that they owed you anything but, just what are some of the attributes that they accomplished based on how your family being [inaudible 16:04]?

	A:	The three of them, my two sisters and my brother, all finished Jerkins High School. The building that, over on Martin Luther King where it is we were yesterday; I did not. This is my brother, Sam. He went to school in the building that burned down. He went away with the oldest brother that’s fourteen years older than me and he was living in New York and he sent for him to come to New York and so he graduated in New York. I got the first GED that was issued in Broward County, 1953.

	W:	The very first one?



	A:	Very first one. That was it.





	W:	Once you got your GED, what happened to your life at that point? What did you go into work or career or . . . what you decided to do?

	A:	I decided to do a lot of things. But, I ended up being an educator. Thirty-three years. The last twenty-two years in Broward County without a break in service. My B.A. is from the University of South Florida; masters University of South Florida. And now, I’m retired for fifteen years.

	W:	What was your role in education? Were you a high school teacher? A:	No.

	W:	Middle school?



	A:	High school is not where you need teachers. You need teachers in kindergarten, nursery school. And that’s where I started.

	W:	What was your first job?



	A:	The first job . . . in teaching? W:	Uh-huh.

	A:	Well, my first job in teaching and I tell people this, was teaching my sisters and brother how to read and write their name. They have brought it back to me in times since then. My one sister has a name that has about eight letters in it and she said, “I remember you used to sit me down and saying, A-l-t-h-e-r-e-n-e-a-s- e and I had to say it over and over and then I had to write it over and over until I got it.” [Laughter] Her name is Altherenease Kelley Gamble and she writes it proudly today. She don’t break it up, don’t do the whole thing. She writes her name. My baby sister also went to New York but after she graduated from Jerkins. She was there for a while and she got some further training in New York





but she ended up back in Florida. Now’s she a minister and retired. All six of us, Kelley children, are retired, living in different areas of the country and independent.

	W:	What was your first paid job as an educator?



	A:	I got a job as a teacher’s aide. I had gone to a school in an area that—they call it deprived—I just say people were living there, that the children from the area were the children of people that had been migrated because I had done that also. I’ve done migrant work from Florida up the eastern stream all the way to New York, Maryland and New Jersey; potatoes, asparagus, tomatoes. All of that.

	W:	Beans?



	A:	No, I didn’t get back into beans. It was peas [inaudible 20:36]. I knew what that lifestyle was like and so I had time and I went and volunteered to sit to read with the kids. That was in May of the year that I read in the newspaper that this was happening. I heard nothing else from it until mid-August when I got this letter that said, “Congratulations, you should report to the University of South Florida” by whatever the August date was. “You’ll be there for six weeks of training to become a teacher’s aide. You, along with others from around the state.” I had a husband, a mortgage, car payment, all of that. My husband agreed to it and he said, “Go for it.”

	W:	What was his name?



	A:	David Clarence Armbrister Jr. He and I go to Tampa, left our kids with my sister, Altherenease, and we drove to Tampa to see what the University of South Florida was like. No one had ever invited me to go to a university. So, I wanted to





see. When we got there, it was interesting because nothing you can envision around the University of South Florida now was there when we got there. This was 1972. Prior to that, I had been taking classes on Saturday at Miami-Dade College North near Opa Locka. Two classes, two classes, two classes and I came home one Saturday and my husband said, “Well, how much longer is it going to take you to finish? If you went full-time, you’d soon be finished.” I said, “Well, I don’t know, I guess so.” That’s how we got into that discussion. Of course, he got to see me graduate from the university and that was a good thing.

	W:	What was your bachelor’s in? A:	Early childhood education.

	W:	And how did you decide that you would go for the graduate degree? A:	I was invited by one of my instructors; there was a grant—

	W:	What was her name? A:	No, it was a he.

	W:	Oh, what was your instructor’s name?



	A:	Earl Sproles, S-P-R-O-L-E-S. I had packed up from Tampa and gone home and he called and asked me if I would take it. I had to consult with my husband again and he said, “Yes, you might as well.” So, I went back for the next year.

	W:	Do you feel that you would have done this on your own had you not received that encouragement, that inspiration from a mentor like that?

	A:	I might have. It would have taken as long to get me through the first one.



	W:	How was your graduate education different than the road that got you through your bachelor’s? Were you different in any way or how would you describe it?





	A:	I never thought of that. Because I was still doing the same thing: working and preparing myself.

	W:	So you were a part-time graduate student as well, the same way?



	A:	No, I was full-time but I still worked and I moved back to Tampa to live with my husband, my children, my mortgage, and my car payment.

	W:	They all came together in one package?



	A:	Yes, and they appreciated it. And I appreciate it today.



	W:	Was there anything significant about your graduate education that you could reflect on to summarize it?

	A:	It allowed me, when I got my job in the classroom, to be better able to accept what came into the classroom that you have no way of knowing who’s coming and what they’re going to bring. And, I say now, a lot of times, if I had not had that kind of education, I would not have been able to accept some of the situations that I found myself in.

	W:	You graduated from the University of South Florida with your master’s degree.



How do you get from there into a permanent teaching job in a classroom?



	A:	Just go down to the school board and apply. W:	Okay.

	A:	I had already been employed by the school board. At that time, schools in Broward County were expanding. There were new cities coming about west of 441; there was more schools being built. And [inaudible 25:52] was great.

	W:	Who was the first principal that you worked for after you got your masters?





	A:	Donald Knapp, K-N-A-P-P. And, believe it or not, the teachers went on strike in Broward County. And, he called me to say, “The teachers went on strike. How do you feel about it?” And, I said, “Well, I already know that they’re the union and once whatever they get, if I’m in the school system, I will be the recipient of it. So I will not cross the picket line.” And I did not. When they went back, I still had a job and I continued there until I decided I wanted to leave that site.

	W:	How long did the strike last?



	A:	It lasted a total of about four to five weeks but everybody didn’t get to go back at the same time. What had happened at this school, Broward County had not offered public kindergarten and this principal, because of the influx of people moving in with kids, decided that he would offer kindergarten. And so, I was an asset. To have me there.

	W:	You mentioned that you stayed at that union as long as you wanted to so, at some point you separated and made a choice to go somewhere else?

	A:	The union?



	W:	No, no. You came back, you were working for that principal but, -- A:	Uh-huh.

	W:	I’m saying—



	A:	Gas prices. Because I lived in Pompano. I lived in Pompano at the time and to get to work I had to get to Hollywood. West Hollywood, at that. And, gas went from, I think was forty-five cents a gallon to like seventy-five cents. [Laughter] And, I said, “Well, I need to find something closer.” And, of course, this principal provided me with the list of schools looking for someone.





	W:	So he was interested in you for a professional level, to help you with your career? A:	Yes. He was that kind of person.

	W:	Did you stay in communication with him throughout your career?



	A:	Until he retired. And then, he passed away in Ocala. He had retired there. So, Ocala. Yes.

	W:	I apologize for laughing. Just, with gas being three thirty-eight right now, and I remember it was four twenty-five. When you talked about it going from forty-five cents to seventy-five cents, I know that’s significant, but it’s kind of funny today, in 2012 to think about that.

	A:	I laugh about it all the time.



	W:	There’s probably so much in your career as a teacher that it will be impossible to summarize it all in one sit-down. I also want to talk to you about some other things. So, I just want to know from your looking back at the end of that career, to maybe close out this section, what were your thoughts about being a teacher, what you provided for students and, maybe a different sense of what kids are getting now?

	A:	I do look back and think about the last year—not the last year, the last year, I went into third grade—the two years before, we were called in by the principal and she said, “I’m getting a kid that is a difficult kid and he has lots of problems but he’s coming to school.” Well, during my masters training, I had been exposed to 971.42 that said that if a parent wanted a child never mind in an educational situation they had to be accepted. And, so, when she brought the kindergarten team in and she said who’d be willing to take on this kid and then she described





his conditions, that was left a lot to be desired and most of them said, “I wasn’t trained that way, no. I’m only here to teach, not be a babysitter.” That was one expression. Another one said, “Well, I don’t know if I can stand it.” And, I said, “I’ll take him, sight unseen.’ And he came with lots and lots of—he could not hold his head up, he was in a wheelchair, he could not make his eyes be still, couldn’t feed himself, couldn’t go to the bathroom by himself, he couldn’t do any of that.

But his mom insisted that he come to a public school and so, Broward County School District provided a bus, a unique aide on the bus for him. Broward County provided a teacher, a unique aide in the classroom only for his needs, not for the classroom’s needs. The aide was instructed that she was to take directions from me but, in my lesson plans, I had to always indicate what was going to be done for Timmy. And there was nothing to be done for the other, I think it was seventeen, eighteen kids, that Timmy could not be involved in. And, so, had I not had the experience of having been—my master’s was really a clinical setting, really. Because, we had a clinic where kids came in from the city and we had to spend time with them and document our interactions with them and so, this was just an extension of what I had already been doing.

	W:	Do you think that law and those policies for Timmy were a benefit to our education system or how would you characterize having that element added to the school system?

	A:	I think, if and when it was utilized properly, it was the best thing that could happen. I learned in talking to someone later that Timmy went on to high school and that Timmy was supposed to have gone to college. But, for me, that was a





really, really rewarding situation to have been a part of that. There were many more situations, but that one stands out because it was the last to my retirement.

	W:	Post that career, what challenges and what new vistas have opened up in your life?

	A:	I still do the same thing I always did. I’m still interested in my community, Derek. I’m still involved in the community. When you said you were from the University of Florida, I’ve been looking for someone that might be interested in helping me to find from—they would call it . . .hmm. Not country music. Let me tell you what it is. Growing up here in Perry—we finally got a radio, one of the little transistors with the batteries all in it?—we would get, was it WRUF?—from the University of Florida on Sunday mornings and the Sons of Harmony would come on and do music. The family’s name was Young and I know there’s got to be some of that music at the University of Florida. And I’m looking for it.

	W:	What was the style of music?



	A:	It was old [inaudible 34:56] gospel singing. I’m looking for it because I told everybody about it and they wanted to hear it.

	W:	This is a recurring radio series that came on every Sunday? A:	Yeah.

	W:	And it was on WUFT? Pardon, on WRUF? A:	I believe so. Yeah, I remember WRUF.

	W:	AM station, 850? A:	Uh-huh. Right.

	W:	Which has been on the air forever.





	A:	Yes. [Laughter] I said in the [19]40s, that’s when I remember it from. And, they came right here to Perry to try out the church in Kingdom of Garden Christ right over here from around the corner and perform. So, that was my introduction to that. I presently am the president of a group, the Rock Road Restoration Historical Preservation Group in Pompano. And, we are in the process of doing what you’re doing here: connecting the history of our people that has been looked over and hope we’ll be in successful somewhat but not as successful as we need to be because time is marching on.

	W:	And there’s plenty of work to do. A:	Oh, oh, oh! That, I know.

	W:	Do you have any other specific civic engagements? Or recreational engagements? We’ve talked a lot about your work and the series of things you’ve taken on. What do you do just for yourself, to give yourself that peace of mind and relaxation and enjoyment?

	A:	I don’t want to say that.



	W:	Okay. [Laughter] You’ll leave a lot of questions with that answer. A:	No, I’m involved in my church.

	W:	And what is the name of your church?



	A:	St. Nicholas Episcopal Church in Pompano Beach. I’m part of what we call Egg Ministry. There is a homeless shelter. And we provide aid to help with the feeding, we found that most of the attendees, persons, that suffer from diabetes. And, of course, we had been providing sandwiches, lunches and they said the food, at times, was not contributing to their health. And so, they did that—the





eggs. So, you boil the eggs and you take them and you know that somebody has had a meal.

	W:	I’m going to ask you a couple of things that don’t have anything directly to do with your education, but they are just general in our society. I guess the elephant in the room is President Barack Obama; his election as president and his potential or his opportunity to be reelected. What are your thoughts about Obama?

A:  I think he has a very, very high potential to be reelected. I can’t think any other way. If I did, I wouldn’t sleep at night. I am a Democrat, been a democrat since [19]65. Very active in local politics. Active in my city.

W:  Are you a member of the Democratic Executive Committee in Broward County? A:   Has been. I served as first vice-chair—yeah, yeah.

W:  Involved in any campaigns in the past that come to mind? You know, something that you were involved in that’s memorable?

A:  Worked very hard to get the first Black elected to the Florida Legislature, 1983 or [19]84.

	W:	Who was that candidate? A:	Bill Clark. William Clark. W:	Did he win?

	A:	He did win. He went on to serve successfully. He now resides in Georgia and we are in contact with each other. They were very successful in being the manager of campaigns for one, Elijah Patlockins that has passed on. And, now, living through a time that I never envisioned being in that the area wasn’t prepared for





him to be in. They never thought he was going to win. It’s floundering and I just don’t know what’s going to happen to it.

W:  Have you ever experienced any, besides the current situation you explained, any real tough political losses that are memorable to you now, that stand out?

A:  I never took politics that way. I knew that there would be two persons vying for the position and the person with the very best of whatever would win and then you’d have to watch and see how they were able to accomplish what they said they were going to do.

	W:	Pardon me for saying, you mention that you advocate for democrats. You kind of have chosen a particular side, and the question of somebody being the better or the worst or—to come out in that situation. Many times because the party is colored by the affiliation, all the Republicans think their candidate is the best person or the Democrats think their candidate is the best person. How do you reconcile having a particular party affiliation with the statement that you previously made?

	A:	Having lived under segregation, having lived and did without—being denied the right to vote is very important to me and it’s only today that I don’t have the card that was issued to me. The discussions that’s going on now about voter registration, I have a card that said, in 1963, that I could not vote in my city for a dog catcher, for city commissioner; I could only vote if there was going to be a referendum and that referendum would have to do with increasing my taxes. If that was the case, then I would be allowed to vote. I was free-holding and having the right to vote was very important to me. And, I’ve since spent my time from





then until now: registering voters, making sure the information was there. When we were given the right to vote, it was under the Democrats. It was not under the Republicans—that I know about. I’ve heard different in some instances, but I know how it affected me. Until that time when they can show me that I am of the quality that I think I am—been, I’ll be a Democrat. Or a nunnify, there needs to be a nunnify.

	W:	Ms. Armbrister, this has been a great pleasure and I would love to continue to speak with you at length on this subject and others, but, to be fair, at this time I am going—on behalf of the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program at the University of Florida—thank you so much for participating in this interview, for sharing your observations on education and life. And, with that thanks, give you final privilege, this will be the last time I speak. But, if there’s something that we did or did not cover or any comment you’d like to make to close the interview, when you conclude those comments that will conclude our interview today with our thanks.

	A:	You’re welcome. No comments. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Joanna Joseph, September 24, 2012 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, March 20, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 22, 2019