AAHP 010A; Holmes; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 010A Christine Holmes African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on February 19, 2010 44 minutes | 33 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Mrs. Christine Holmes recounts growing up in Perry, Florida where she lived with her parents, four sisters, and three brothers on a cotton farm. Her father participated in sharecropping, which was what allowed their family to live on the land. Even though this was the 1930s, Mrs. Holmes remembers having close friendships with some of the White children that lived in the area. She describes the race relations in her town as civil but not overly-friendly, and tells the story of a Black boy who was killed for looking at a White girl when she was young. During the Great Depression, her family was comfortable because her father was a farmer and was able to provide food. They were better off than most people in town, but she did not realize this until the pastor at her church preached about the lack of food. Church played an important role in her childhood and carried into adulthood, when she served as an usher for many years. She places a high value on religion, and it has guided her through her life.



Keywords: [African American History; Taylor County, Florida; Religion]







































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 010A

Interviewee: Christine Holmes Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: February 19, 2010



	H:	—clubs, we have it. All the rest of them are my family. All them are family, but the ladies is just my friends, a club we had.

	W:	Well, they said you get your hair done over there.



	H:	Yeah, she do—Ms., down there, Mrs. Griffin. Yeah I do. I’ve been knowing her when she was real young. I reckon I knowed her husband all, when I was little girl, her husband she married, one time. Her first husband, I knew. He died, passed.

	W:	I’m sorry to hear that. Is it okay if I move a chair closer? I want to get this tape recorder a little bit closer to you. I’ll put it back when we’re done.

	H:	It don’t matter.



	W:	I just want to make sure we can hear what you’re saying. Just kind of speak into the air, say anything that you want.

	H:	Yeah, okay.



	W:	Okay, that’s good. All right, this is Marna Weston for the Sam Proctor Oral History Program of the University of Florida, on Friday, February 19th, 2010. I am in Perry, Florida, in the home of Ms. Christine Bines Holmes. Thank you, Ms.

Holmes—actually, I’m going to sit over here next to you. Is that okay?



	H:	Yeah, that’s fine.



	W:	I’ll get closer. Ms. Holmes, could you state your full name from when you were born?

	H:	I was born in 1922. April 26th, 1922. W:	Where were you born at?





	H:	Perry, Florida. [Laughter] W:	Right here in Perry?

	H:	[Laughter] Yeah.



	W:	Your mother and father, were they also from Perry?



	H:	Yes, from what I can remember. He wasn’t from Perry. He was from Georgia, my father was. My mother was born right up the road. It’s Perry, I reckon, just, in Taylor County.

	W:	Okay, what was your father’s name? H:	My father’s name is James Bines.

	W:	Do you remember what part of Georgia he’s from? H:	I don’t know the state, but it’s Stockton, Georgia.

	W:	Stockton, Georgia? H:	Mmhm.

	W:	And what do you know of his parents? Your grandparents? His mother and father?

	H:	I know she was named Laura Bines, but I was so—I reckon, I think his father’s name Jake Bines.

	W:	Okay, and do you know where they were from?



	H:	That’s too far back! [Laughter] I don’t know because he came here. My mother, she was from here. And so, I don’t know. That’s about as far as I can go. But I know it’s Stockton, Georgia. He was raised up there. Stockton, Georgia.

	W:	What was your mothers’ name?



	H:	My mother, she was named Elizabeth Wright.





	W:	Then, do you know what year they were born? Or, pardon me—yeah, what year was she born?

	H:	She was born in 1902, I think. She was born in 1902, but I didn’t—thinking about the other, I don’t know when my father was. I just know his birthday, but I don’t know his year.

	W:	How about your mother’s parents? Her mother and father. What can you tell us about them?

	H:	I don’t know nothing, because I didn’t never did see them. I don’t know her mother and father. Mm-mm.

	W:	Do you know what year your mother and father were married?



	H:	I can’t think! [Laughter] No, I don’t really know exact the date, now. But I don’t know exactly what year. I think it was like 1918 or something like that. I don’t really know. I won’t try to say. I didn’t know.

	W:	How many brothers and sisters do you have? H:	I had four sisters and three brothers.

	W:	And what were their names?



	H:	One of my sisters was named Beatrice Bines. She was Bines. One Maggie Lee Bines, and Dolly Mae Bines, and Geneva Bines.

	W:	Are any of them still living?



	H:	None of them. There just two of us living. W:	Okay. Which two are still living?

	H:	I myself, and my brother. He live here. He named Leroy Bines. W:	How about your other two brothers? What were their names?





	H:	Jesse. One of them Jesse Bines, and Samuel Bines.



	W:	So you’ve been here your entire life, and you’re going to be eighty-eight on your next birthday.

	H:	Yes.



	W:	Could you tell me of your earliest memories of living around here. What was this place like when you were a little girl?

	H:	[Laughter] This place here? I know when these streets was dirt here. All out here, and this church was about what I can remember. We had one church out in the country here, but now it’s Springhill Missionary Baptist Church too, but it’s little further out. But that’s the first church I remember going to. And that church, over right down, it’s a big church over there, St. Peter Primitive Baptist Church. That’s the one I was raised up in.

	W:	Mmhm. We’re at the intersection of US 27, and Alternate US 27, and US 98 in Perry, Florida, so right at this crossroads. And this all used to be dirt.

	H:	Yes. That used to be dirt. I can remember it was dirt. I was big enough to remember when they started paving it. I was big enough. We were living here, and when they surveying for the road there to go all the way through, our house was there. That’s why we had to move, because they cut it half in two.

	W:	The state made you move?



	H:	Yeah. It was born to—it was somebody else. We had to move. It wasn’t our land.



We didn’t have our own home. But Daddy was still, like, farming, working for a farm, and it belonged to, you know, the White people who lived here.

	W:	Do you remember their names?





	H:	Yeah. That was Kings. W:	The Kings.

	H:	The man was named Mr. Frank King. I remember him because he used to ride by. I remember that way back. [Laughter] He was named Mr. Frank King, but that’s been years.

	W:	What kind of stuff did you do on the farm? Did you have chores that you did?



	H:	I didn’t have no chores but babysitting. [Laughter] Too much. Sometime I caught myself like, they have a little, like pull a little [inaudible 5:34]. But I never did do too much in the way—and I picked a little bit of cotton, but I was always the baby sitter.

	W:	Okay. Did they grow a lot of cotton around here?



	H:	Yes, it be cotton. Most everybody used to plant cotton way back then. But they stopped for some reason. It wasn’t no further down there at Mayo. And I reckon they still plant at the Mayo one. My boys got big enough to work the Mayo one, after I had some—not cotton, and ‘bacco too was dead then. But not—been a long time.

	W:	I grew up, I cropped some tobacco, and hull and tie it.



	H:	Yeah, my boys—a good ‘bacco crop, more ‘bacco was in Mayo, Florida down there, but that’s a different kind. But you know, they went down there to work.

	W:	Yes ma’am, I just came through there on the way here. H:	Lafayette? Is that what you call it? Lafayette?

	W:	Yes, ma’am. Lafayette County. H:	[Laughter] I can’t say it.





	W:	Well, they say Lafayette or Lafayette.



	H:	Yeah, the old people says, we call it—I say it the way I can say it! [Laughter] Yes, so. And then we had—oh you was asking, I can say anything I want to say?

	W:	Yes ma’am. Anything you want to say.



	H:	Oh yeah, then we had the school. We had the school, yeah. I went to school in that church. It was burned then. And then, it was Jerkins school that got burned down and they built the school out there where they got a center there now called Jerkins High School. That merged with the White school. We just use it for some kind of center, now; like, they have all kind of activities there. It was Jerkins out there, sure was. Some of my teachers. I don’t have a [inaudible 7:01] teacher there. My last teacher—this used to be one of my teachers’ house I’m living in. [Laughter] And that’s her picture sitting there.

	W:	Oh, what was her name?



	H:	She was Ms. Sarah Hood. Yes, she was named Hood. You can’t see her. She to the bottom there. She kind of low. I’m going let you see, if you’ve got time.

	W:	Yes ma’am, of course. Don’t trip on the cord.



	H:	Wait, now let me step over; I hope I don’t pull on that cord. I’ll let you see one of my teachers. This is her house, and she had got sick, and that’s how I’m living here now. She talking about, “You keep my house?” See, that used to be one of my teachers when I was younger.

	W:	Born December 10th, 1910 and passed on November 6th, 2001. That’s the same day my grandmother passed away, except it was 2003.





	H:	It is? That was one of my teachers when I went to school. I just keep her picture up here still. This is her house. And then all this stuff, most in here, all this stuff is hers, mostly.

	W:	She’s a pretty lady.



H:  She sure was. And her girls—they’re so crazy about my granddaughter. Her daughters. But they don’t live here.

W:  And this was the memorial service at Stewart Memorial AME Church. H:  Yeah, right across the road there.

W:  1113 West Hampton Springs Avenue, Perry Florida, 32348. “The coming home celebration for Sarah Frances Porter Hood.”

H:  I didn’t even know her first name! You told me! [Laughter] Because I knowed she was Hood. I’m glad I didn’t read—if you hadn’t read her maiden name, I wouldn’t have knowed. But “Ms. Hood” what I knowed. And I just keep her sitting up there where I can look at her. Yeah, that’s my old, one of my favorite teachers.

W:   What did she teach you? What subjects?



H:  Just like elementary, like second grade or something like that. Now, you know she’s old. She ain’t been dead—you see what year she, what year did you say?

W:   2001.



H:   She lived a long time, didn’t she?



W:   Yes ma’am, she did. Ninety-one years.



H:   Yeah, she teached about every one of my children. That’s a blessing. And my last teacher just died, another one of my teachers just died, about two years ago.

W:   What was her name?





	H:	She was a Moore. W:	Ms. Moore?

	H:	Yes. She was a Hood, though. She was her sister-in-law. Really, she was a Hood, but she married a Moore.

	W:	Oh really? So, you liked school?



	H:	I didn’t—see, Daddy lived on a farm. I didn’t get too far in school. But I had a lot of teachers: one, Ms. Lily Jones. Now she, you can’t hardly tell what grade I’m in if I go to her, because she make you think come out of high school! [Laughter] Me and a girl was talking about her the other day, about Ms. Lilly Jones. Honey, she would get you—we’d know as much as these children now, and they’re about graduating down in there. Sure is. A lot of children graduated don’t know as much as I know. They don’t know it. They don’t understand things like I did.

Yes, sir.



	W:	So, what was it like living with your family at home, and doing the babysitting, and—?

	H:	Oh, we had a good time while we was on the farm, and I got a lot of White friends down here that, we grew up together because of living on that farm. A lot of them live around here. One just died not too long ago. There are about all of us dead but about two other girls, and she and I, and—the principal used to be [inaudible 10:21]; that was one of them’s, was his father. We was raised up with that [inaudible 10:27] but he’s not the principal. Now they got a new principal. Just to the school. Taylor County High School, now. But he was the principal there for about two turns, I think. Mmhm.





	W:	What was the principal’s name? H:	What?

	W:	The principal’s name?



	H:	What? What’s what I’m talking about now? W:	Yes, ma’am.

	H:	He was a Howard. He was Oscar Howard Junior. W:	And he was principal of Jenkins?

	H:	Oh no. Our principal? Oh, Jerkins. W:	Jerkins?

	H:	Our school was Mr. Jerkins. Uh-huh, yeah. And then we had one named Mr.



Roundtree when I was going if I go way back. I’m talking about the one that the school’ named after now. I had two principals. One was named William, and Mr. Jerkins when I was there.

	W:	Well, I want to ask you more about growing up, but you said something that was really interesting to me: you talked about how you still have ties with the White children that you grew up with.

	H:	Yeah, like the Towleses, if you’ve been there and the White people. All these Towleses. I grew up with some of the Towleses. With the Towleses like that. One of them, her daddy used to be the high sheriff here a long time ago. Mr. Bill Towles was, here.

	W:	Was he a nice man?



	H:	He was kind of fiery! [Laughter] Of course, when you get him a little drunk. But, I mean, they were nice people to work for but, I mean, they said when they were





sad, the people said that because I wasn’t doing—my daddy didn’t do nothing to get in there with him, but people was saying he was mean. But they were nice people that just like Black people. Way back in them, and the Black people couldn’t mix with the White; they just like Black. They come to see me now, regular. The girl, one of them live in an apartment, now, since she got old and her husband just died. And she got an apartment down there kind of toward that steakhouse place down there. Stay over by the steak place. Some apartments like this. That’s where she live now. Her husband just died about—I went to the funeral about two or—yeah, it ain’t been but about two or three months ago, I think, her husband.

	W:	Do you think that Blacks and Whites got along better when you were growing up than they get along now?

	H:	But they just couldn’t. They wouldn’t—no, they didn’t along quite as good, because they mixes now. Girlfriend and boyfriend thing? [Laughter] But they just didn’t do that, but they was just like Black and White, but they wasn’t having one for a girlfriend, or wasn’t marrying one another like they do now. But now they married. I look on TV where the girl that don’t want to miss, it was on the TV. That was the boyfriend, and he’s Black and she’s—but they ain’t find her yet. So I don’t know. It’s been about two weeks now. I don’t know. They was nice all right, but they couldn’t mix like they do now. I tell you, it’s better now for that part, because they marrying one another now. We really got a Black president, been in a—! [Laughter] But they don’t like that but they can’t help it. Mm-mm.

	W:	What did you think about Barack Obama being elected?





	H:	I’m glad that boy come like a Martin Luther King said, the boys and the White boys going to be holding hands together, you know, walking the street? And that part was true. If he could’ve lived to see that, because he sure said it like that.

Said little White girls and boys would be walking together; now they holding hands, and nobody don’t say nothing about it. Mm-mm. Living together and everything else now. Mmhm.

W:   You didn’t see that as a possibility when you were growing up?



	H:	I’d didn’t thought it’d ever be. [Laughter] I didn’t. You sure can’t remember it, but honey, if you had saw it back then, you’d have said it wouldn’t one day would be! [Laughter] I would never would’ve thought it would be. I didn’t. Because, look at one day—l didn’t never see on TV, but they said, I didn’t really see it but, I heard my daddy and them talking about that they had killed a boy, just because he looking in the window at the White girl. Somebody I know through some of them same people what I was talking about just now. Some of her relatives, they say they killed that boy. I don’t know.

	W:	This is a White boy or a Black boy was killed?



	H:	He was a Black boy was killed. Say, you know, he had his tub down like, used to be a tub down, working the tub down around people’ houses and things. You hear them talking about it. I know you don’t know, because I just can’t—. [Laughter] But anyways, they say he was working towards the house, and say he looking in the window at her. I don’t know whether it’s true though, or not. But I knowed him, though, real good.

	W:	What was his name?





	H:	His name was Otis Price. But he was real bright. Might have had White blood in him from way back then and they wouldn’t tell us, you know how it used to be, long time ago? Because I had one teacher was like that. She said, “My daddy’s a White man.” Said, “My momma had to get—brought me here and give me some”—she had to get away from there. And she say her grandma told her this. Her momma had died, say her grandma told her that her momma was working for these White people. And said her grandma had told her, said—but she was White, though. Her daughter lives here now.

	W:	Do you remember her name?



	H:	Her name was Alice. I think she—Alice Watkin. She’s kind of light-colored. She ain’t no—because her momma was looked like a White woman. She ain’t too bright. She look like the cousin of the President, I reckon, about his color in that picture.

	W:	What was her mother’s name? Her momma?



	H:	She was named Essie Mae. Essie Mae Moore, then, she was. Mmhm.



	W:	So, you lived at home, and you did some chores. You’d babysit and you went to school?

	H:	Oh yeah, babysitting, washing dishes, raking yards, and all this stuff; house chores around the house. Yeah, I did that.

	W:	Did you cook?



	H:	No. I couldn’t cook then. I didn’t do much cooking. I was just about grown when I started cooking. I didn’t cook when I was little. No, not young like that, I didn’t.





When I first started cooking, I think I just had to start cooking a little bit when I married. Yeah.

	W:	Well, how did you end up leaving home and getting married? How did that happen?

	H:	We just moved close to where some boys had lived, but it was turpentining, and didn’t live too far. But we was still farming, my daddy was. The people just like— there wasn’t nowhere for the children to go but to one another’s house. I met a boy, yeah.

	W:	How old were you?



	H:	I think I was about eighteen, I believe. Eighteen, turned nineteen when I married. W:	And how old was he?

	H:	I think he was twenty-four then. W:	And what is his name?

	H:	Ezekiel Holmes. I just got his picture up. I ain’t got but one. This is how he looked here, with my daughter-in-law. I let you see that [inaudible 16:33]. That was his picture, but my daughter-in-law. That was her wedding. That’s my son’s wife, but he was just on it. That’s the onliest picture I have of him. He was just on there with her. He’s just with her, because he went to the wedding and stuff.

	W:	He’s a handsome-looking man. H:	I got one somewhere. Huh?

	W:	I said he was a handsome man. So, he was giving her away at the wedding in that picture?





H:  Yeah, he gave her away to the wedding. And this is him but just, this is my—but she dead. My son married somebody else now. I don’t have one of her pictures, but this is her. This my little daughter-in-law.

	W:	And what’s her name? H:	The girl? Her?

	W:	Yes, ma’am. The daughter-in-law that passed away. What was her name? H:	This one here. I done forgot my daughter-in-law’s name! Tino. She was a

Tolliver. Mmhm, yeah. Eleanor Tolliver, talking about “Tino”—I called her “Tino”— Eleanor Tolliver. I don’t know why I called her nickname!

	W:	So your husband worked in turpentine.



	H:	Yeah, that’s when I met him. He was turpentining. Coming to the house, playing. We didn’t do nothing but rain playing. Rain playing, you know, like to make—oh, you don’t know nothing about that either, because my children don’t know nothing about it. But anyway, we used to have all kind of rain plays, we’d play in that. That’s all they done at night. We’d have rain plays, and sit around the fire, and my daddy used to tell tales and things. There wasn’t nowhere to go or nothing. I said—every night, they get off of work, they’d come, we lived not too far from this turpentine camp. But it was on a farm, and they’d come up there at night. That’s how I met him.

	W:	So that was his job?



	H:	And then, the church down there. Sometimes, I’d go to church down there. The church was at the turpentine camp.

	W:	Do you remember the name of the church?





	H:	It’s Little St. John. It’s here now. It’s been all the time, but it was St. John then.



Same church. This one right over here, not too far, across and back over in there now.

	W:	Okay, across—on 98? That way?



	H:	Yeah, you go the 98 way, and you turn off, and then turn and go to it. St. John. Little St. John. That’s what its name was. They still got it name Little St. John. It was down there, and so they moved it up here when that turpentine camp closed down. So, they moved the church over and it’s still Little St. John. [Laughter]

	W:	Do you remember about what time that was that the turpentine mill closed?



	H:	It just had to be—well, like, I married in [19]40. This is before [19]40, though. I don’t know. I reckon it must have been in the [19]30s and all like that, because that was 1940 when some of this stuff what I’m talking about. Mmhm.

	W:	You mentioned about the rain play. And you said—



	H:	Oh, that was back up in the [19]30s and the [19]40s. [19]30 something to [19]40.



Then, I lived right over there. Point where I’m talking about right across. It ain’t too far right down there where there’s a big white church then you come right through there. St. Peter’s Church that I was raised up in. Well, there some quarters over there, and I used to live over there. Mmhm. My daddy lived over there and them quarters that were over there. They call it “Interstate.” But it’s a highway that go through there. I forget the highway that go right through there. But it’s right back across over there.

	W:	Did you get married here in Perry? H:	Yeah, at the courthouse.





	W:	At the courthouse.



	H:	Yeah. [Laughter] You know down at the court house, all them all back in there. W:	Do you remember the judge or the Justice of Peace that married you?

	H:	Yeah, he was Byron Butler. I know the judge. He stayed here a long time. He was Judge Butler then.

	W:	And who were your witnesses?



	H:	There wasn’t nobody to my wedding but my momma, and his wife, and the judge’s wife. I think her name was Louise Butler. I think I’m—

	W:	And so, then you have a family. You and your husband had children. H:	Yeah, but we were young. I had ten children.

	W:	Ten children!



	H:	Yes.



	W:	Well, I would very much like to hear about all of your children. If you could tell me their names and a little bit about them?

	H:	I got—some of them here with me now. I’ve got three here while we’re talking— I’ve got three of them here around me now. One of them here named Gayle. She ain’t never married. Gayle Holmes, one of my children. One of them named Gayle Holmes, and Martha—she’s Martha Stephenson now. My baby girl, she live over there now, Sylvia. She married. She was named Sylvia MacDaniel.

Mmhm, yeah.



	W:	So that’s the three girls, what about the other seven?



	H:	The other seven? Them boys! [Laughter] One—they dead. They all of them, they over there, they picture is, that’s the one right there right on top, under Obama.





He dead, that boy. His name was Lester. That one dead. And then I got, okay, let’s see what’s here. Oh, there’s one up there. He name Frankie Holmes. That one right up there with the hat on.

	W:	Yes, ma’am.



	H:	And them three right yonder. I had five. That’s Lester. That’s Frankie again down there, and then Willie James, and Charles. He dead. Charles, that one right there that on, right there on that side. He dead too. And that over there dead. Two of them dead.

	H:	What were their names?



W:  That’s Charles right there, and that’s Lester over there. And Willie. And the other named Willie. I forgot little Willie over there. I got two in a nursing home now.

Mmhm, I ain’t got but two boys living. He in the nursing home. Willie James is in, and Zeke too, but I don’t have one of his pictures up there. But he in the nursing home. I got two boys out there in the nursing home.

W:   So what are their names from oldest to the youngest?



	H:	The oldest one is named Willie James, oldest boy. The second one name is Charles Holmes. His picture’s over there. Uh-huh. Charles. Then Frankie Lee. Then Lester. Lester, and Frankie. I think that’s all. Yeah, that’s all. [Laughter] I think that’s all!

	W:	You sure? Okay. And please remind me again, what year were you married?



H:  1940. Got married December, I can remember when the date. December 24th. I married on Christmas Eve Day, 1940.

W:   Why did you all decide to get married on Christmas Eve?





	H:	I don’t know, just want to be—. [Laughter] I don’t know! Pardon me. It was December 24th, 1940. I don’t know why. I wonder why.

	W:	Now, did your husband go to the war?



	H:	No, he didn’t go—well, he was having defers then. They could defer him back then. He didn’t go to the war.

	W:	Did he work locally for the war department or something like that?



	H:	No, all the time, he worked at like, this log sawmill that people hauling log right there? That’s the same truck, I believe, right there. He was working for that man a long time, and when they got that turpentine, then they worked through a mill day. He didn’t work but three places that I know of. But I can’t remember now. I believe he worked to a mill just a little while. That little mill over there just a little while one time. Most of the time, he worked, all of the time was, that’s the biggest job right there, sawmill, after he come out that turpentine and went down. He worked for that. He was never gone. I don’t think that was his truck then, but that’s what he was doing, just hauling them logs. That’s what he was doing there.

	W:	So, now, you lived through—you have lived so far through what people call the Great Depression.

	H:	I call it “depression.” It was some great depression, one time; sure was! I remember the depression.

	W:	What was that like?



	H:	That depression, when they had to ration shoes, a time like that. I remember they rationed some, like sugar and things like that. Uh-huh, yeah. And I can remember





one time, I think—[aside to someone at the door] come on—my, when my Daddy was— Come on! Marley! Let me see, tell him to come in.

	W:	Yeah, somebody trying to come in. Good afternoon. How are you? H:	I reckon my Daddy—this is one of my daughters right here.

	W:	My name is Marna Weston. I’m a student at the University of Florida, and I’m with the African American History Project. The ladies down at the boutique told me about your mother, and I just was stopping by and she’s been telling me about her life.

	X:	Oh, well, okay.



	W:	So, let me move the cord out your way so you can come by. X:	Excuse me. Thank you.

	W:	Now, which daughter is this?



	H:	That’s the Martha. We was talking— [Laughter] That’s the Martha! W:	So we were talking about the Great Depression.

	H:	Yeah, but what I started to say is they was rationing shoes. I can remember they rationed—they had sugar, and way on back there, so far back; I was a child. But I wasn’t in bad of shape as some people, you know? I used to hear my pastor get up and say about how they didn’t have nothing to eat. I had something to eat, because my daddy was a farmer. He say, “You sat there and looked like you don’t know what I’m talking about.” I say, “Well, now, he talk about me, because I don’t know what he talking about in a sense,” because I wasn’t hungry like he said. And Momma’d even leave it for the children. I had, because we had—see, a farmer, he has, I could go out there and get the meat and all the stuff like that. I





just sit there and looked, because I didn’t—if you don’t know it, you can’t say nothing. What you do, being in church. I didn’t want to say nothing that I didn’t know what he was talking about. I reckon, I say, “I hope he isn’t talking to me,” I said to myself. Because y’all I wasn’t saying nothing, I reckon. You know how people is. Some people like that, but I really didn’t know what he was talking about then.

	W:	Well, you seem in such good health. You have your hearing, and you’re walking around. You have your eyesight.

	H:	I just come from down to the drug store down there. I think I’m doing fine at eighty-seven. Eighty-Eight. Soon be eighty-eight; I ain’t eighty-eight yet. I’ll be eighty-eight in April.

	W:	Have you ever had any illnesses, or have you always been healthy?



	H:	I had nothing, no sickness. I told my daughter that today. I don’t be hurting nowhere. Only thing, I break my bones a lot. I broke my arm. I broke this leg here. I be hopping. And that there, I got a pin in the arm. That’s all I had: breaks.

	W:	A pin in your left hand.



	H:	A pin my left, and my right leg. I went and messed up! [Laughter] W:	And you also broke your right arm too?

	H:	This the arm I got— W:	Oh, the left arm?

	H:	See there. It’s got something in it. See there? W:	Oh yes, ma’am. I see it.





	H:	Momma said—it’s just been kind of crooked. Momma say I broke it one time when I was a baby. I don’t know which one it was. When I was young. I don’t know which it was, but I can tell sometime. I believe it was this one, the way it feel sometime. She say, that was a rocking chair, then; I don’t know.

	W:	What do you remember about World War II?



	H:	I don’t know nothing about the War because I ain’t had no soldiers in it. I don’t know much about World War II. My daddy said he went, but I don’t know nothing about it. You know, I can’t give you no information. I can’t go that far back.

	W:	Did you listen to Joe Louis on the radio when he would fight? Joe Louis fights? H:	I can’t remember it now. I remember Joe Louis fighting, but it’s done left me now.

[Laughter]



	W:	Did your family listen to the radio together?



	H:	Yeah, I guess they did. I remember we had a radio somewhere that you wind up with your hand, and I think they listened to the fights or something. Joe Louis. But I know enough about—see, I’m talking about Joe Louis, a famous fighter and all like that, but I can’t remember all that.

	W:	Did you—after you got married, did you work or did you stay at home?



	H:	No, I worked at, like, some people’ houses sometime. Sometimes, not all the time. But I have worked some for, like, babysitting is mostly what I did.

	W:	Do you remember the families that you worked for?



H:  Oh, Lord! So many of them, honey; let me think! The Towles, and the Bur—oh, Lordy! Burkes. Someone, they live in Tallahassee, now. The Skinners, and the Huckfords. A lot, so many of them I can’t name them all. But then, I worked at a





restaurant a little while. That’s what I’m talking about, the restaurant. I worked down there, the restaurant a while. Mostly I worked at people’ houses, so many people, and I worked on this daycare program, so many people I can’t name them. Because I got plaques and things with them. Like the elder care thing?

	W:	Yes ma’am.



	H:	See, I got two or three different plaques there they give me. That’s one of them right there. See them two? Right there one, I know, is right there.

	W:	Yes, ma’am. Foster Grandparents, Senior Companion Programs. H:	Yeah, that’s what you call it.

	W:	“Christine Holmes, ten years of dedicated service.” And then we have another one here that says: “In appreciation to Mother Christine Holmes for forty-nine years of faithful service as usher, presented by New Jerusalem Primitive Baptist Church.”

	H:	That’s our church, yeah.



	W:	Now, where is New Jerusalem?



	H:	Right down there. This is right down there past this church. The next church is it.



Right down there behind this. Go on past the church, and you get to that Munchies, that store there. It’s right by that store there, right by it, mmhm.

	W:	Now, how long have you been going to that church?



	H:	I reckon about forty years. Because when I moved from down there from where I’m talking about to the turpentine place, that’s the church. But it was a part of the same church I was talking about over there in Interstate where I say I was raised up. You know, like the church split up in, like, two churches. Then, but—my





momma come with the split-up crew, and so I—[Laughter] So I joined there, too. But Little St. John, that’s where I got converted at, Little St. John. And Reverend L.C—you know the Howards? You done been by and interviewed them Howards?

	W:	No, ma’am. This is the first time I’ve stopped in Perry.



	H:	Mr. Howard, my pastor, Mr. L.C. Howard, my pastor because he had baptized me there. That’s, he was my pastor too at that Little St. John there when I—it was St. John then, but it was somewhere else. Then I had, Reverend Aiker was here. He pastored that church down the road, my—he got killed the same year that my son, that boy with the hat on, was born. He was four weeks old and my pastor got killed, fixing to go a-hunting.

	W:	What happened to him?



	H:	And he got killed right after New Year’s. W:	He was shot by accident, or—?

	H:	No, a truck or something run into him. W:	What year was that?

	H:	That was had to be in, 19- and what? [19]41 or [19]42, I think it is. [19]42. Let me see what it is. Check and see, what year that—what year Frankie born?

	U1:	Ma’am?



	H:	Frankie was born 19-what? 40-what? U1:	Frank?

	H:	Frank.



	U1:	Frank, [19]52.





	H:	Oh yeah! [19]52. [19]52. I was counting too far! [Laughter] Yeah, [19]52. He was about four weeks old when my pastor—that’s why I remember when my pastor, when he got killed, Reverend Howard. Because he was coming through there the same day, and then he went the next day, he got killed. He came through there to look at the baby. Talking about, “You going to be at church Sunday,” he told me. And he got killed. I didn’t never see him no more. But he saw Frank. I went to church, but he wasn’t there. Somebody else had preached that Sunday. Because he had got killed.

	W:	I’m going to ask you about some events in your life, or some famous dates, and if you just tell me what your recollection of those things are. What was it like the first time you voted, and when did you vote for the first time?

	H:	I can’t remember what year I voted for the first time. I remember—about every time it starts, I forget what year the first time I voted is. I can’t think right now what year it was. But I votes every year.

	W:	When you first tried to vote, did you have any problems? Or did you just go up, and you just went and voted?

	H:	I didn’t have no problems. Unh-uh, I didn’t have no problems. W:	And you voted right here in Taylor County?

	H:	Uh-huh. Right here in Taylor County.



	W:	Okay. Do you remember when President Kennedy was killed and what you were doing when you found out?





	H:	I know what I was doing that day, I was out to some White people’ house, tending to a little baby, like I told you. When he got killed, that was a time that day, honey! It sure was.

	W:	What was that day like? What happened?



H:  Everybody was upset, a-running, and a-going, and a-doing. Somebody watching TV, I think, and called and told somebody. I can’t tell you exactly how it was. But just, that was a time that day. Mmhm. Yes, honey.

W:   Did you watch the news a lot when you were growing up? Did you all have a TV?



H:  I had TV—I didn’t have no TV with Momma. We didn’t have a TV. Because I can remember, the first TV, some White people that had it. But we didn’t have one. I could remember [inaudible 32:26].

W:   Do you remember the first time you watched TV?



	H:	It had to be back in the—I’m trying to think when it was. I believe I was about like in the [19]40s, I believe. [19]50s. Might’ve been in the [19]50s. I can’t remember that exactly, but I know somebody—the first TV, don’t nobody didn’t have it. Like we say, I was living without care then. It had to be in, like, the [19]40s or the [19]50s, because somebody—one our boys, he was the first one that got a TV. Somebody that lived down over there. But I used to watch it, you know, at people’ houses, before then. But I can’t think of the years it was. But when they first came out, I was watching like to the people’ house, but I didn’t have one.

	W:	Do you remember when you got a telephone for the first time?





	H:	Oh Lord! [Laughter] I can’t remember what year it was. About that time, people started getting them. I don’t remember what year it was when I first got a telephone. I can’t remember now.

	W:	Do you remember where you were when you heard that Dr. King had been killed?

	H:	Yeah, I was down at that motel working right down the road. Somebody done tore it down and named it something else, now another motel. Yeah, when the news, I think—was I working at—? Oh, you said Dr. King.

	W:	Yes, ma’am. Martin Luther King.



	H:	Mmhm. I don’t know what I was doing that day. I was thinking about that—same thing, I was talking about the Kennedy man. No. I don’t know. I done forgot what I was doing that day, now. I sure don’t. I believe, it seems to me like I was at somebody’ house, though. I can’t remember that far back. Mm-mm.

	W:	Were there ever any problems around here as far as, like, the Klan, or anything like that? Was that ever, you know, an issue that people talked about?

	H:	No, nothing. All I heard them talk about—like I was telling you about that boy? I believe that’s the first I can remember, about the boy got killed. But I can remember that, you know, like that.

	W:	Did anybody ever have a cross burned in their yard, or got run out of town, or anything like that?

H:  I didn’t see that. I heard somebody talking about they had somewhere else, but not right here in Perry. I can’t remember. I mean, I don’t remember nobody talk about it here.





	W:	Well, let’s see. Do you remember when the space shuttle blew up? The first time, the Challenger? When Reagan was president?

	H:	I can’t remember that. No.



	W:	How many grandchildren do you have?



	H:	Child, don’t start me to count! Now I got to count! And I got so many on the way in! [Laughter] Lord! I can’t count the grandchildren, now! I got a heap of them, though. Let me see.

	W:	More than ten?



	H:	I got more than ten, now. W:	More than twenty?

	H:	[Laughter]



	W:	I’m checking! [Laughter] You got ten children!



	H:	Wait now! Let me see how many. I’m going to start with the biggest. One of my daughters, she got five. [Laughter] Then I’ve got—that’s five. And that daughter, she got one. That’s six. Then—oh, I’m counting the granddaughter, the grandchildren. And then I got a son, that boy what I was talking, he got five.

That’s ten. My daughter and son, I’d say, that’s ten. Then, one other son got one child. That’d be eleven, wouldn’t it? Child, don’t let me start to counting. [Laughter] Child please! Then the other one up yonder with the hat on, he got two, he got two children. That’s eight or ten, oh Lord, don’t let me count! I can’t count them right now. But I’ve got a bunch of them. Oh, and I forgot that crew right up there. But they’re great-grands.

	W:	How many great-grands do you have?





	H:	Ooh, Lord! Jesus! W:	[Laughter]

	H:	That’s a great-grand up there.



	W:	The little girl with the red bucket?



	H:	The bucket? I got just two in that, that’s two great-grand. W:	That’s two different girls right there?

	H:	It’s two of them.



	W:	Okay.



	H:	And so, I say that’s two great-grands. And then, but these boys got grandchildren; you understand, I can’t count them all, y’all. I got two: one grandson; my oldest grandson, he got about what? Four? Lord, don’t let me count them. You’ll just have to excuse me! I’d have to say about twenty-five. I’d say about twenty. It’s more than that, I know, though. I can’t count them all. I’ve got more than twenty grandchildren. I’d have to go back. I can’t—some of them got so many of them I can’t count them right.

	W:	Well, you’ve lived to be almost eighty-eight years old. A Black woman in America. H:	Yeah.

	W:	What do you—what is the reason that you have been able to live so long, and have a good life, and have great grandchildren, and be healthy. What is your secret?

	H:	My secret must be just staying with the Lord! [Laughter] Right? That’s all I can say. I believe that because a lot of people that’s younger than me—I say staying with the Lord. I take that view, because a lot of people older than me, they





walking with sticks and stuff. I mean, young people, younger than me. So I guess staying with the Lord. I never smoked or drank, or been no party person. I reckon that’s it. I guess that’s it. Sure, because there can’t nobody eighty-eight years could walk down to that drug store and come back, hardly. Because they got a stick. They in their forties and fifties. People’s got sticks while they’re younger than me! They sure do! Got sticks and that.

	W:	That drug store down on the other side of the railroad track, where I came from? H:	I just come from down there.

	W:	How far would you say that is? That’s about, at least, what? At least a quarter of a mile, at least.

	H:	It sure is! But I walked down there. Waiting on my children. I got my daughter who lives here. I say “I walk down here and get”—because I do better if I walk a little bit, but they done stopped me from walking. Got me where I was stiff as anyone, because they talking about the people that get you and all kind of things, that stuff happening. They won’t let me walk nowhere. But I don’t hardly walk right out, down there to the church now. I used to walk to church. It’s right past, behind this church. It’s right down there. There’s like a store between. The store is by my old church. There’s a store behind this church here. On this side, the same side as the church. See, get in for it right there.

	W:	Well, I’m going measure that when I come back. Because this would, the store we’re talking about, we’re at the intersection of US Highway 98, Alternate 27, and 27; where they intersect. That store is across the railroad track, east of here, all the way back at the intersection of 221 and Alternate 27, so that’s-





	H:	Down at the drug store? W:	Yes, ma’am.

	H:	Yeah. You going to see how far it is I walk?



	W:	Yes, ma’am! I’m going take a look at it when I go back through.



	H:	Okay. But I just come from down there, not long ago. Go around to rinse that porch over there. I had just come from down there.

	W:	Well, that’s when I saw you. I was on my way to Quincy, and I was going to turn the corner, and I saw you and I went back around the corner. And then I went down to the beauty shop, and I asked those ladies about you, and then I came up and spoke with you.

	H:	Yeah.



W:  What lesson do you think that young people can learn today—young Black people, first of all—that they have not learned? What lesson do you think?

H:   Lot of them, I reckon, stay out the streets. [Laughter] Partying so much, I’ll say, for one, really, now; I ain’t playing. I think their parties are a little too much now. Some of them, they don’t church like they should. They’ll church, but they do all of it together. On Sunday morning, be just as fresh like Jesus, and then the next time they’re somewhere else, I reckon. If they just set their mind on what they’re going do, I think they’d be better. A lot of drinking, this drugs stuff. That got a lot of them down, I believe. But I never drank. Most of them drank.

W:   Now, what about education?



H:  The education stuff—and then, they play hooky. I couldn’t go to school. I wish I’d’ve the time like they go. They didn’t have a bus for us when I was coming up.





My daddy, he didn’t want to risk me staying up here—he thought I was going to be in, I reckon, in the streets or something—to stay with none of the, I had people up here I could’ve stayed with who went to school. I didn’t go to school ‘til I was twelve years old. I missed six grades. That’s what I say I did. Because I just stopped in the sixth grade. I was so big and grown. You know how people get so old, I reckon. And then, me and two girls were fighting. You know how, I didn’t want them to whip me. But he did whip me with this tree outside. You know this big tree right over there? That great big oak tree. There’s like a store closed up? A bar or something closed up? I helped set that tree out.

	W:	Really?



	H:	That’s where the school was out there. I got the two boys—one of the boys that helped me is living now. But nothing but all, they dead, but just me and him. I said, but I know I was holding that tree. They put that dirt round there. Messed around, I got a whipping off that same tree. But he just went and broke it here, it started growing and when he broke—that’s what he whipped me about, these two girls trying to fight. I throwed my arm, and the scars, you could see them scars for a long time on my arm, there.

	W:	What were y’all fighting about?



	H:	So that’s why I quit school. Something about a boy said he liked somebody. [Laughter] You know how that is! We just got in a little argument. Both of the girls is dead now. [Laughter] Yeah, Lord! Something about who likes somebody, probably didn’t like either one of us. And—. [Laughter]

	W:	Who do you think is a good leader today? Who’s the best leader of the people?





	H:	Like a president or something?



	W:	Yes, ma’am, or it could be somebody local. I mean, just somebody you think.



Who was the best leader that you’ve known of in your life?



	H:	Let me think. I think Martin Luther King was a good one, myself. Kind of, one way. About what I can remember, really, you know. That I can really remember right now.

	W:	Why him?



	H:	Huh?



	W:	Why Dr. King?



	H:	Because I think he’s just for the Black people. Like he just—I don’t know what’s about him. I can’t tell you. It’s just how I feel. But just something about him, I don’t know. He just seemed—in his conversations, always seemed like he was a good leader to me. The things he said, you know, when he speak. Uh-huh. Yeah.

	W:	What do you think makes a good leader? What is your personal definition of leadership?

	H:	A good leader, just believe in the right things and, you know, and believe in the Lord too. The Lord make good leaders out you. Because something the in the Bible was, what, the one what stay with Jesus is going to be the—.

	W:	Well, Mrs. Holmes, I don’t want to get you too tired. H:	[Laughter]

	W:	I have appreciated so much you letting me talk to you.



	H:	I enjoyed talking! [Laughter] You exercised my brain, and make me go back to memories. I might be thinking. Yeah, some of that I reckon I forget because I’m





so old. But it will come to me. Sometimes, I can be laying in the bed and some of that stuff will come through, what I ain’t said, but, I reckon I done got old and forgot it! [Laughter]

	W:	Well, I’d like to come back and speak to you at least one more time, if you don’t mind.

	H:	Maybe I’ll have some of my brains then! [Laughter]



	W:	Okay. Well, I like to conclude all my interviews with just thanking you very much, first, for participating in our project; and also, just to hear any final thoughts you have; and once you say what you want to say, that’s going to be the end of the interview.

	H:	Okay. Maybe I did thought of something else someday but I’ll done forgot by then. [Laughter] When you come back! Don’t let people hearing me laughing! But it is, I just you know, old people forget sometime. Right on the speck of time, couldn’t call it, then you’re going to lay down and it’ll come to you just like you writing it sometimes. I know it’s a lot I ain’t said, but honey—but I enjoyed you carrying my mind back to some things that I hadn’t thought about in a long time. Uh-huh. I enjoyed it, too.

[End of interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Anna Jimenez, July 15th, 2013. 2nd audit-edit by:	Ryan Morini, July 5, 2017

	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 16, 2019