AAHP 312; Hannibal Square Heritage Center Panel; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 312 Linda Walker Shapiro, Eddis Dexter, Eugenia Felder Baylor, Ella Johnson Dinkins, and Carol Walker Everett

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Marna Weston on July 20, 2013 1 hour, 48 minutes | 61 pages













































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 312

Interviewee(s): Linda Walker Shapiro, Eddis Dexter, Eugenia Felder Baylor, Ella Johnson Dinkins, Carol Walker Everett

Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: July 20, 2013



	W:	Good afternoon, this is Marna Weston for the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program at the University of Florida in concert with the Hannibal Square Heritage Center at Rollins College, in Winter Park, Florida at the Hannibal Square Heritage Center. Speaking with five community leaders, ladies who have been identified to us as people with a significant story to tell. They’ll be introducing themselves in just a moment, but this is just to open the program, and first ladies to give you our thanks. Thank you very much for being here today. Ms. Walker if you could identify yourself, who you are, when and where you were born please.

	S:	Linda Walker Shapiro. I was born here in the Winter Park area on Leon Avenue.



	W:	Okay, and there are five women present, so maybe you don’t want to say your date of birth. That’s what I was looking for.

	S:	Well, I will say that I’m the youngest member of the team. [Laughter]



	W:	We’ll leave it there. Can you tell the month and date of your birth? If you choose not to say—

	S:	Oh, I don’t have a problem with that. May 31, 1954.



	W:	Thank you very much. And Ms. Everett, if you’d please introduce yourself. E:	Carol Walker Everett, my sister. And I was born in 447 West New England

Avenue right down the street, January 1, 1951.



	W:	And you were born at home or a hospital? E:	At home.

	W:	Okay.



	S:	I was born in a hospital.





W:   Okay. Ms. Dinkins?



DI:  My name is Ella Johnson Dinkins. I was born April 4, 1918. I’m ninety-five years old. I was born in Orlando, Florida on Terrace Street. Dr. Jay Buchanan was my doctor.

W:   Thank you very much. And Ms. Baylor?



	B:	I was born Winter Park, Florida, 444 West New England Avenue in the Lochen



Hotel.



	W:	And can you please state your full name?



	B:	My name is Eugenia Felder Baylor. And I was born 11/27, and I’m eighty-five years old.

	W:	And you were born at home? B:	At the Lochen Hotel.

	W:	Oh, at the Lochen hotel.



	B:	Yes, right down New England from the girls there across the street.



	W:	That’s going to be a very interesting story. And Ms. Dexter if you’d please introduce yourself.

	DE:	Okay, my name is Eddis Thomas Dexter. I was born March 30, 1940 in Montezuma, Georgia.

	W:	Since we have a panel, we’re going to try to get through some common themes, but first I’d just like to individually speak to each of you about your parents. Who your mother and father were, and if you can also tell me about their parents as much as you can remember. And Ms. Dexter if we’d start with you. Who were your mom and dad?





	DE:	My father is Stetson Thomas. He was known as ST Thomas in this particular area. He was a migrant worker transporter, and he took people from the Orlando area to New York to work every year. My mother was Cora May Thomas, and she did not work. She just took care of the sixteen kids that she had.

	W:	Sixteen children? So you have fifteen brothers and sisters? DE:	I had. There are only seven of us now.

	B:	[Inaudible at 3:23]



	W:	While we’re here with you could you mention them from oldest to youngest please?

	DE:	Okay. Being in the middle, some were dead before I was born. The youngest one is John W. Thomas, who teaches in Seminole County. The next is my sister Eloise White, who is a nurse at Florida Hospital. My third sister is Bernice Costner, she’s a librarian in New Hartford, New York. And then there’s me, and I’m retired. My next sister was Pauline Alexander. She’s deceased. My brother Emmanuel Thomas, who is deceased. And then I have—I’m trying to follow them in order—Eloise O’Brien who lives in New Hartford, New York. And then there was Stetson Thomas. He’s deceased now. And there was Willy James Thomas, who’s deceased. They had a lot of kids so [laughter] they’re scattered all over New York. But anyway, we’re still a pretty big family. I don’t know names of the other children, I don’t. I’m sorry, yes I do. I had a sister and brother that were killed by lightning, and one was Aida, she was twelve, and Muster—oh we called him Muster—but anyway he was ten.

	W:	And your mother?





	DE:	My mother was Cora May Thomas. She’s deceased now. W:	Who were her mother and father?

	DE:	Her mother and father were Aida West and Buster West from Valdosta, Georgia. W:	And your dad? Who were his mother and father?

	DE:	My father’s people, I didn’t know my grandmother but I do know that she was a lead in our family history. She was a Blackfoot Indian, out of Montezuma area. There’s a reservation there. And his father was Stetson Thomas Sr., and he was a minister in that area.

	W:	Thank you. Beside—



	DE:	And they are both deceased.



	W:	Besides your mother and father and your grandparents, are there older members of your family that go back further that you have knowledge of?

	DE:	Well, I knew my father’s older brothers. Believe it or not, they are all deceased now. Well, you’d think so ‘cause I’m seventy-three years old, so we’re talking about uncles. But they lived in Tampa, in Boston, and Valdosta, Georgia.

	W:	And what were their names?



	DE:	[Laughter] okay, well there was Elijah Thomas, who lived in Tampa. There’s Willy Thomas who lived in Tampa. There was Miles Thomas who lived in Detroit. And I don’t know where my uncle Henry lived. He lived in Montezuma, Georgia. And they’re all deceased. My aunt, I knew very well. I said I knew very well, I can’t think of her name right now. We used to call her Aunt Munch, but she died when I was a little girl in an auto accident. We don’t have a lot older than us still around [laughter].





	W:	Well, thank you. Ms. Baylor? B:	Yes?

	W:	Who were your mother and father?



	B:	My mother was Mary Lee Sharp Clark Felder. Her father, my grandfather, was Eli Sharp of Adel, Georgia. And my grandmother was Violet Roundtree, so that’s where I came into the Roundtree because my grandmother was a Roundtree.

And on my father’s side, his name was Everett Eugene Baylor, and he came from Richardson Louis. Mother was Ava Georgia. My father and his mother, and his two sisters came to Key West when they were young, and my sister went over that water to see them. I wasn’t going I have claustrophobia, and I wasn’t going across that bridge. So, I never did see them, but I know of them. And my grandfather used to raise the game chickens. You know what they used to fight with. You know those—

	W:	Cock fights.



	B:	Cock fights. But that was what he did, because that’s where they did all from where they came. So, it was five of us, and there’s two of us dead. Two dead, two sisters dead. Mary Edgar died there, and Betty fell in the [inaudible at 8:29]. And my brother, Herbert Lee Baylor, living out to my William Baylor. William Baylor live in Orlando, and I live at 86th West William Avenue.

	W:	Do you have children?



	B:	Yes, I have two daughters. And there’s Glena L. Slither, and Eugenie L. Baylor Jackson.

	W:	Thank you. Ms. Dinkins, who were your mother and father?





	DI:	My mother and father; my father was a contracting builder, Andy Johnson builder. He build churches and houses. My mother was Addie Gramling Johnson, and she was a school teacher, and she graduated from Atlanta University, and Dr. Dubois taught her English at the university. My grandmother was named Eleanor Gramling, and my grandfather’s name was Oscar Gramling. And my grandmother’s mother was named, oh I can’t think of it right this minute, but she was back in slavery time. And her, let me see was it a master—she was part Indian. I do remember that. And my father’s father was a principal in Chester, Pennsylvania. And I don’t know too much. Mrs. Margo was just a housewife I suppose, but they were two, let me see, two girls and one boy in that marriage.

My mother and father, there were eight of us: four boys and four girls, one set of twins. And the only ones that’s sleeping last night are my oldest sister Mary and myself, and my sister Jarvey. The rest of them passed on. They have a lot of grandchildren, and great grandchildren.

	W:	Can you give the names of your brothers and sisters that are not no longer with you, but that you remember?

DI:  Yes. Walter was the older boy, Mary was the next girl, I was the next girl, and then there was Jarvey, and there was Sadie and Samuel, and then there was Oscar.

W:  So Sadie and Samuel were twins? DI:  Yes.

	W:	So they were the knee babies together? DI:	Yes [laughter].





	W:	That’s a term I’ve come up with. Okay, thank you. Ms. Everett, who were your mother and father? Or are your mother and father?

	E:	Yes. Well, my mother’s Jeanie Turner Walker, from Reynolds, Georgia, and her father was Amos Turner from Reynolds, Georgia. My grandmother was Josie Cleveland Walker from Reynolds, Georgia.

	W:	On your mother’s side?



	E:	On my mother’s side, I was going down. And on my father’s side, my mother and father were not married, but it’s Charles Samuel Perry. And he was born in City Point, Florida, which is no longer City Point, which is in Brevard County. And he was born there, and his mother was named Josephine Taggart, and his father was Columbus Taggart—Columbus Perry, I’m sorry. But they had three, four boys and they all just kind of ventured from, they came from the south of Florida, went to City Point and from City Point came to Winter Park. And they were like little entrepreneurs in the city, doing different things, being a chauffeur, owning a store. Josephine Taggart owned a rooming house on North Boulevard. And around town my dad owned a store, and at one point something happened where he killed someone, and that’s when he all left in [19]53, [19]54 going to Chicago and to Toledo, Ohio. That’s how he ended there. As far as my siblings growing up, there were six—seven really, but we never knew the seventh one because he was the oldest, and he died two or three years in Georgia. But for us growing up as kids, there was six of us: three boys and three girls. And those brothers were James Walker, who worked at the Winter Park Hospital, and there was William Walker. He went into the military, and then came out, went to school, and then





became a disabled veteran. And there was Donald Walker who was a resident artist for Winter Park. They’re all three are deceased now. And then there was me, the fourth child, the oldest daughter. And then there was Linda. And for myself, I went to Valencia Community College then Florida State, and then Rollins. And then there’s Lynn Walker, and then there’s Hazel Walker, which is the youngest, who works for Head Start. And we’ve been right here on New England Avenue. We’ve moved three times: at 447, 430, and then 730 West New England. Our childhood was right here off of New England Avenue.

	W:	Did she get it right Ms. Walker? S:	Yes she did. [Laughter].

	E:	[Inaudible at 13:43]



	W:	Did she leave anything out?



	S:	Well, pertaining to what she said she didn’t leave anything out, but my mother, Jeanie Walker met my dad, Leroy Johnson in 1951. And then I was conceived, then my younger sister Hazel. I was conceived in [19]54. Hazel was conceived in [19]55. Leroy Johnson was from Swainsboro, Georgia. He said they called the area in which he lived in the Crossing Green settlement. His mother was named Martha Greene. His dad was named Charlie Johnson. They’re both deceased.

The only thing that she did leave out was on my mother’s side her dad was named Amos Turner, and his dad was named Ben J. Turner.

W:  Well, we’ll go over some broad things, because to ask you two individually about your education, and things like that might be, we might be talking for a long time individually. So, let me start out with just whole idea of being here in Winter Park.





What is Winter Park like? And particularly what is the Black experience? The experience for African American people, like here in Winter Park from your perspective having lived here in your lives. We’ll start with you.

	S:	Well no I will let the sage people start first, and then I will follow up of whatever when I came in on the scene.

	W:	Well that sounds like a good idea. That sounds like a good idea. So we’ll start with one of you ladies, either Ms. Baylor or Ms. Dinkins to lead off the discussion.

	B:	Well, I went to Hannibal there, and then I re-graduated, and then we went to Huntress. And I stopped in eleventh grade, and then after that I went and took up a Head Start over in Orlando. And I taught Head Start, and I stopped in [19]69, and I did a lot of volunteer, until I got able not to do any volunteer. And I worked for good people here in Winter Park. And I can tell you about how it was when I was a child, and all of that. This is Black bottom where I was. We came down here and it was Clay Street, and every time it rained they had to come and grate the streets, because they didn’t have any brakes or nothing like that. And when it rained the water would come up to the step, and I was so afraid I was going to get drowned, ‘cause I can’t swim. And then when we was kids, you know when it rained there’s fishes and the frogs and the tadpoles and all of it poured out the sky, and we would go out there and pop them with our feet. But you can’t see it now. They don’t run up into the sky. None killed in all of that. But that’s when the fishes and some would come from the sky, and come really down. And I wished it was so, so my grandchildren could see that what we saw when we were kids. And all down there where the park is, it was just woods, and it was a





gator in there. And we would feed the gator, and beat the gator, ‘cause it was back there. And we didn’t know after I got grown, and the gators were eating the dogs and stuff. Oh my God, that’s when I got bread ‘cause the gator couldn’t eat it. Oh well wouldn’t know nothing about it, but we could save some of our food, and feed that gator and take them bricks and sticks and beat the gator down in the pond across from Nat. It was Maitland a long time ago, and they changed it from Maitland to Denning because there was a Maitland over in River Maitland. And everybody, they had stole them. This was nothing but a resident and the people would come here, looking for the stoles and they had to change it. And when they changed the park, made the big park down there, that’s when the big gator came out at night. They think nobody didn’t know it, because they pulled the gator out at night. That gator was the longest gator you ever gonna see. It come from right out that park. And you know who put it in there? Mr. Murray put him in there as a baby.

	W:	Who was Mr. Murray?



	B:	Our neighbor Mr. Davis Murray put him in there as a little bitty baby. And as I was saying, on the other side of us it was nothing but weeds you see. And Mr. Dykes would raise his garden. And all on the other side, Mr. Grey and Mr. Woods and they would all garden down there. And when they get through with the potatoes and the stuff, they give it all to the neighbors after they greet them. And we had sweet potatoes every day. You would just went to his house and get one, and kept a bag. And at night we would—you can’t do it now—but at night we would get the ties and stuff from the door, and make a [inaudible at 19:06]. We’d play





hide and seek at night. Can’t play no hide and seek at night, because the children is wise, they know everything. We were dumb back then, we didn’t know anything. ‘Cause back then all the parents told you, “Don’t mess with the boys,” but she didn’t say how you mess with the boys. And I don’t care. Out to this day I always wonder when Nester had a swing at her, always had a swing out at school, and the boy would swing and buy me a sneaker. When I’d get home, mother knowed it. And to this day I don’t know how. Well I didn’t lie, because I knew I didn’t do anything wrong. I would say, “Yeah.” It was the Zelmer’s boy that got killed up north, the oldest one. And he would swing me. And when I’d get home Momma say, “You been swinging in the swing and having sneak outs.” I said, “Yes, ma’am.” That was all, because I didn’t lie. She didn’t chastise me. I have two sisters deceased, that’s Mary and Betty.

	W:	You had mentioned that a young man was killed up north. What happened to him?

	B:	Well what do we call when the jack went down? You know that uplift thing? W:	Yes, ma’am, a hydraulic jack.

	B:	Yes. It fell on him and killed him. They had to bring him home and bury him.



That’s the Zelmer’s family. Marvin in undertaker, is deceased now, but that was his oldest brother. The caper hills, it was a hill there, and we used to ride our bicycles sometimes doors down. Because of the hill we didn’t know how to ride the hill. Well, as they kept grating the road and fixing the road they took the hills away. [Laughter]. So everything downhill was clay and dirt until they finally put some bricks in down there and make us roads.





	W:	You didn’t have paved roads, anything like that. It was different in the White section, is that right?

	B:	Oh you know that. They had bricks down there. [Laughter from the panelists]

	W:	Yes, ma’am. Yes, ma’am. But you do? B:	Oh yeah.

	W:	How did you all feel about that?



	B:	Oh it didn’t mean nothing. I was good. It didn’t mean anything to us, we was kids, and we didn’t know at 6 o’clock you all had don’t go across that railroad track.

They had a dog down there. I’m telling you we didn’t go down there. And my momma never, to this day, I’ve never went to the shop, because she didn’t allow that. She said, “You don’t have any money? You ain’t got no business to run to the shop? You got money you go buy.” Everybody bought their clothes from Easter time. All of us had same red, or the same-colored dresses. Had to find us undercoats and stuff for us. So everything was all right, because as for this same coat it was in blue print down, because Mr. Long and Mr. English told them not to bother that little water thing across from Holly Lake, because there was an undercurrent there. And he didn’t know where it’d go, because he the one who put all the bricks down for the White folks. But since you know he’s dark they don’t pay no attention to dark. He put it down in the blueprint, “Don’t knock on there. Be careful don’t suck it,” and suck them ‘til they sucked that hole in there. Took everything; the pool and everything with him. And just lucky it went under a favax and come under there, and got the pools and everything from the park. But





it was told in black and white, “Do not bother that little water that scoop up in the thing,” because he said it was an undercurrent. He didn’t know what it meant.

And the city has no bottom. See, when there’s an undercurrent like that there’s no bottom down there. They can’t find the bottom now in that sinkhole. They can’t find it. They don’t know how many thousands and thousands of feet it is down there, because it’s under. And they’ve been down there, trying to find it, but they can’t. They can’t find it. They just can’t.

	E:	Those coastguards. B:	Huh?

	E:	I said they we relooking for one of those coastguards. B:	Oh yes, yes.

	W:	Did they used to dump stuff in there?



	B:	Huh? No. This is where the sinkhole caved in. The cars down there and his house, everything.

	W:	Oh okay. I’m not familiar.



	E:	There was a business down on Fairbanks and Dennings, and there was an exotic car repair shop there. So three Porsches and things went down in the sinkhole. Ms. May Rose house went down in the sinkhole. The city swimming pool went down in the sinkhole, and that’s what she’s talking about, and it all occurred starting that Friday evening. It started going down pretty fast, trying to help Ms. May Rose get her things out, her little dog Muffin was there, because he was barking. Even the dog could tell something was wrong there. And so all the people in the neighborhood kind of got together to help move her out. The next





thing by that Saturday morning it was all gone. Couldn’t rescue the cars and nothing. It had part of the dry cleaners up there.

	B:	It went there.



	E:	It stayed anyway. So that’s what she’s talking about.



	B:	That’s because not paying attention to what we say. [Laughter]. E:	That’s true.

	B:	What we say don’t mean anything. It’s the truth. DI:	Became the light.

	B:	Yeah, what we say don’t mean nothing, because they, even though you got good education, you know what you’re doing, you put it down in black and white, well somebody wanna say they know more than you, and that’s what happened here. That was causing trouble.

	E:	Because he was not an engineer, you see. But he had common sense. B:	He was an engineer.

	E:	In the sense—



	B:	In his own way.



	E:	In his own way.



	B:	Because he built all of these roads. All of the roads you see he did it and Mr.



Stanley helped him, Mr. Long.



	W:	Mr. Lung? L-U-N-G, like your breathing lungs?



	B:	Long, yeah. L-O-N-G. End house down there. And Mr. Angus was running south. W:	Ms. Dinkins, what are your impressions of having lived here in Winter Park?

	DI:	No, I don’t live in Winter Park, I live in Eatonville.





	B:	Eatonville.



	W:	Pardon me. Well, in Eatonville then.



	DI:	I live in the oldest historical Black town in these United States. B:	That’s right.

	DI:	Well, how we got to Eatonville. During the depression my father lost all, lost everything we had in Lincoln, Florida; our home and property and everything. And we came to Sanford. Well, my father had—let me go back. The Hungerford Vocational High School in Eatonville, where the Calhouns were the principals, and they came from Tuskegee Institute to Eatonville to put a school, and it was Hungerford Vocational and Training School, and at that school you were training how to do everything mechanical, typewriting, English, all the spokes, and everything. You were trained there at the vocational school, and Calhouns weren’t built at my house, and so there was a teacher and her husband then that knew my mother and father. And she told them about my father.

	W:	What were their names?



	DI:	Oh, Burrell Cartwright. I can’t think of the other, but the Cartwrights. And they told the Calhouns about my father, and we were in Sanford at that time, and my father came out and built them a two story red brick house with a basement in it. After that happened, here in Eatonville Mr. Judge Brathel encouraged my father to buy property in Eatonville. So he bought property in Eatonville, and he bought thirty-one acres of land. And that thirty-one acres of land he paid a dollar an acre for it; thirty-one dollars. That was back in the late [19]20s, [19]22, [19]23—in that area. And then we moved to Eatonville, and at first we, there was a house that





the—oh my goodness, I can’t think of the name right now. But the person that had the houses out there to rent, what’s your last name?

	W:	Weston.



	DI:	Westons. They were all relatives. And we lived in one of those houses, and then they decided that they were going to tear those houses down. And my father working at the Hungerford School, the house that—the Thomas House in Eatonville was the old church, and we lived in that for a while until my father could make provisions for us to have a house to live in. We’ve been there in Eatonville ever since. Oh, and I graduated from Hungerford High School, in 1935. [Laughter from the panelists]

	W:	What is it about Eatonville besides the fact that your parents still found work there that kept you there, that makes you feel so positive about your community?

	DI:	Well, Eatonville was a community where we lived in, and everyone was close together. If anything went wrong in your household the people came to take care of it. I can remember Mr. Hamilton. After they worked in cleaning ground spaces, at night they would build fires and dig deep wells for you until they had a piece of wood that went around where the water was, and when that went down then you knew that’s where you could put the well in. And they would make a fire at night. It worked all day long out grubbing and whatnot, cleaning the ground. Then they would come and drill your well, and you had a pump to get water, but later on and years went by, you had electrical pumps that you could get your water out of. Well Eatonville, let me say this about Eatonville, Eatonville had people—the Hungerford School produced doctors, lawyers, engineers, anything that you had





that school produced it because it was from the Tuskegee Institute and teachers came they knew how to teach the children. They don’t teach children anymore. You got the computer and all of these little cell things, and you give it to little children, and you go to church and they got. [Laughter from the panelists]

	E:	That’s true.



	DI:	And you know the teachers that we used to have they taught us. They stopped A, B, C, and D. You got A, B, C, and D but you got A, B, C. Didn’t even get D, E, and F, because you had to get it together, and after a while you got the whole alphabets together because they made sure that you knew the alphabet correctly. When you learned 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, you learned 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. You got that in

your mind right. Then they went 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10. Then they go like that, doing the computers know all these kinds of thing, and that wasn’t the right thing to do.

Eatonville had their own council, their own mayor, they owned everything that they had. They came out of Hungerford School, most of them, and teachers some of them came from Fisk, Hampton, and they didn’t bother with the schools in Florida, but they just had the Black schools all over the nation. They came and the majority of those teachers that came were single men and women, and they courted and got married and lived in Eatonville. That’s what we are. We were a community that grew up together.

	W:	When in your opinion did Eatonville stop from going from which heights from being this great place, where people came from all over, to a period where it was lesser? And you can tell me when you think that might have happened.

	DI:	Well, let me see. In the [19]50s and [19]60s when they started the—





	S:	Integration.



	DI:	Integration of the schools. S:	That’s the [19]60s.

	DI:	It was in the [19]60s. That’s when things went bad, because our children weren’t accustomed to our children. Then you went to a different school then you were kind of pushed away.

	W:	You’re all kind of agreeing with this, so you feel that desegregation was not a positive in this area.

	DI:	No, no. It hurt the students, because when you had to be bussed to a different school and you had different teachers, see our teachers at that time were interested in seeing that students got what they needed, and if you weren’t real up to up, and your parents weren’t real up to up to help you with your lessons and whatnot you were just pushed aside.

	W:	And that didn’t happen before. How is that different from what happened before the schools integrated? If you weren’t making your books, for example, before what would happen? [Laughter from the panelists]

	E:	And I agree with that, because I can recall when the teachers from the high school used to make house calls.

	B:	Yes.



	E:	And I won’t forget, I forgot I have a half-sister Diane Perry. And Diane and Christine, a cousin of mine, Dixon, they were terrible in high school. They were just very active. And I can remember so well three teachers came to visit. We all live in the apartments down there, and they came to visit me—those home visits





to tell them how they were doing, that they need to stay away from each other. You wouldn’t dare get that now.

	B:	Unh-uh.



	E:	And that made a difference, because the teacher knew you, they knew your parents, and your parents knew them, and if they spank you, they spank you no questions asked, either right or wrong it was never asked for that. For me I went to Hungerford my junior high years, and during my ninth grade year, then in my ninth grade year integration had started. So that was [19]66. Renee and Deborah Corban lived on the corner here. They went before us to Winter Park High. They were a year ahead of us, Renee was one year ahead, and Derek was two years ahead so they had already started integration. A few kids from Eatonville like, I want to say Kennedy majors, I’m not sure, but there were a few kids from Eatonville that went to Winter Park High also, and by the time my whole class, the class of [19]69, got ready to go to high school they divided us three ways. We had a third of kids went to Edgewater High School, and a third stayed at Wymore. They changes the school to Wymore Tech, and a third went to Winter Park High. So most of us at Winter Park went to Winter Park High. We walked every day, and the ones in Eatonville of course had to be bussed to Edgewater, and the ones that stayed in Eatonville and some at Winter Park continued to go to Wymore Tech. So that was [19]66 we started.

	W:	So Ms. Everett let me make sure I understand, I’m doing this also so that we won’t take. You knew the integration was coming and that it was going to get split





up when you went to middle school and you were able to anticipate that, or was it a surprise?

	E:	Well, see when I went to middle school, no, we didn’t know about it. It’s only when they started to middle school just two or three years after us, but for us we were involved in everything in Hungerford. The bus picked us up, we went all the way to Woodbridge, pick up all the students. So Hungerford was just an ideal place, we had all type of activities and things that we did in Hungerford.

	S:	Can we back it up a step? W:	Yes, Ms. Walker?

	S:	To describe how things were. We had segregated communities. You had a Black community, you had a White community. If you lived in a Black community in Winter Park—it was West Winter Park—Eatonville was an all-Black municipality, but you have the other side of the tracks, and in Winter Park and Eatonville, whatever, like Ms. Genie said earlier when 6 o’clock came if you didn’t have work or any business in whether it was Eatonville, Maitland, or Winter Park you came home. You were not allowed on the other side of the tracks.

	W:	What would happen if you decided to allow yourself? B:	To go there?

	S:	Basically what happened to Trayvon; you might get beat, you might get killed, anything might happen. So nothing has really changed in that aspect. You knew your place then. When dark came, you went home to your community. You had thriving communities, you had your grocery stores, you had your churches, you





had your undertakers. Everything that you needed for a community to survive you had that in your own community.

	W:	So who told you that it wasn’t your business to be in another place? How did that knowledge get translated to the young people to not be in certain places at a certain time?

	B:	Parents.



	S:	Your parents. And for fear of you not returning, and no one ever knowing what happened to you if say a group of kids got together today they might decide that, “Hey, we’re going to Park Avenue,” that’s the main street here in Winter Park, “We’re going on Park Avenue to get ice cream.” Well, back in the day you didn’t have that opportunity.

	B:	No.



	S:	You knew better than to go, because you had your own ice cream shop in your community. Like I said, if it wasn’t about business, if you were not working for “the White folks” or whatever, you had no business on the other side of the tracks. You came to your community. You might not ever be seen again.

	W:	Were there instances where people disappeared?



	S:	In my day and time I can’t think of anyone disappearing or whatever, but you might get beat, you might get lynched, or whatever. Winter Park has been around. What we didn’t explain about Winter Park, and nobody has touched on, Winter Park, when they were incorporated they had tried to become incorporated four or five times; they couldn’t become incorporated. So there was a newspaper guy by the name of Gus Henderson, a Black guy that rolled the—





	B:	The Advocate.



	S:	Right, The Advocate was the newspaper. He gave back to the people in this communities to say, “Winter Park is trying to become incorporated. Hey, let’s go and place our vote or whatever.” If it had not been for the people of West Winter Park, the community that we live in, Winter Park would not or would not have been incorporated. But it was incorporated, because they had tried four or five times, but the people of color had to help them to become incorporated. But since then, since their incorporation, they have tried to kick West Winter Park out of the city limits various times.

	W:	Ms. Dinkins you can go.



	DI:	Ah, yes. In Winter Park too you see was mostly made up of northern people that came down here to live in the winter time.

	B:	Rich people.



	DI:	The millionaires.



	B:	Millionaires, that’s right.



	DI:	And they came to Winter Park. So, where they had lived up north it was a different atmosphere than the atmosphere down here. They stayed here two or three months out the year, and they left us down here to take care of the property while they were back up there.

	S:	And a lot of the people in Winter Park worked for the White folks on the other side of the tracks, to put it bluntly. They were the maids, they were the gardeners, they were the chauffeurs, they—





	DI:	They just did everything. They took care of the kids, they did everything for the people that came here. They were called snowbirds. The snowbirds that came in the summer. Sometime they even went back north with them to take care of them to help them get settled and everything. Then they would come back home, and tend to their families and all.

	W:	Ms. Dexter, do you have any memories of Eatonville? You seem to be not going along with—

	DE:	Oh, I agree with what they’re saying. I came to Eatonville when I was four years old, and we were only here for a short period of the time. My father had gotten into some trouble, so he was looking for some place to hide. So he brought us here to Eatonville. He knew about it because he had moved a couple of families there. So we stayed here for a year, then he took another crew of people up north, and so we went back to work. So when we came back again, I was five, and I remember going to the school. I couldn’t go to school, because I was still too young. But we had teachers from Winter Park. Ms. Reed taught at Hungerford for years, for years. We had Ms. Pope from Orlando. So we have teachers outside of the city at that time teaching the elementary schools. But I also went to Hungerford for fifth grade.

	W:	And this is the elementary school right across the street? DE:	Right across the street.

	B:	Yeah that’s it.



	W:	You all went to school there? [A collective uh-huh]





	DE:	I didn’t have one year, because that was the—we didn’t have a fifth grade teacher in Eatonville, so they sent us over here for that year, then back to Eatonville, and from there to Hungerford. My experiences in Eatonville were, we just had a ball. We were looking for a place to settle. We were glad Daddy found somewhere to bring us, because we were on the road all the time. This place, never in the same place twice other than where we were. We went back to that same place over and over. But when the season was over, and you had to come to Florida, and I don’t remember being in Belle Glade, but my sister was born there, so I know we stayed down there for a while, and then Montezuma. So Eatonville was good, even though the house didn’t have any facilities or anything. So my dad had a well put in and the pump is still there at that house. We used to walk up the street with pails to get water and bring it back to the house. So my father said if we stay here another year when I come back, then we’ll get a well.

And he did. And so we stayed there, and we’ve been there ever since really, because he got electricity, then he did put in bathrooms, and all of this. But I think what I heard her talking about, teachers coming to your house. And you know this happened at Hungerford a lot. We were going to school, the elementary school. A teacher would come, because everybody know everybody in Eatonville. And I remember stealing oranges and the neighbor beat my butt. [Laughter] Still waiting to tell my mother or whatever.

	E:	And you got the second whooping.



	DE:	Yeah, on my right. Boot, that too. But that’s how it was, everybody looking out for everybody. I don’t know if she was looking out for me, or the man who owned the





orange grove, but they were looking out for each other. [Laugher]. And I remember saying that I wanted my children to have the opportunity to go to Hungerford, because I knew the teachers really cared. I never remember a kid being sent home from school when I was at Hungerford. You might dig some stumps, you might clean some land and pick up around the school campus, but not sent home.

	W:	Mr. Glover talked about that yesterday. That the punishment they had to clean the stumps, to clean the field. It’s still in use today.

[Words of agreement]



	DE:	So you did all of this, and if you were in home ec, you know you washed the football teams, their uniforms. You made their lunches for whatever basketball team was coming there to home to play. You guys remember, because you said you went to Hungerford. I wanted my kids to have that experience, because what I seen just from my oldest daughter who went to Edgewater High school, when she gets a notice about school reunion, meh, throw it away. I talk about our school, she said, “Mom, I wish I had gone there. I don’t know half the kids I went to school with, and they didn’t care to be with us in the first place.” So they had their little snitch, kids who rode the bus, going back and forth with them. So she missed that camaraderie that we had when we were in high school. And that’s one of the reasons that I stayed in Eatonville, even after moving away, getting married and moving away. When we came back my husband got a job back in this area, I was glad. So we bought property and built a house in Eatonville so that my kids still have that feel that you have in a community. And I think that’s





invariable. I think that that’s great for the kids, and for us. And you know everybody, and when something happens you sort of pool together and you see what you can do, and how you can help. And even if you didn’t know the person, my sister went to school with that person, and so you get used to being called “little Thomas” because they can’t remember your name. [Laughter from the panelists] Thomas kids.

	W:	Do you have a big reunion with your schools that you all go to? Is there something like that annually, or biannually to this place?

	S:	Well, we have a mass reunion for Hungerford, it’s just a matter of who’s going to do the next one. And see, for my class of [19]69, we call the last original class from Hungerford, we only attend the mass reunion. We do not attend Winter Park High, or Edgewater. You don’t feel the part. I know I had worked almost ten years with someone before I realized that we went to the same high school at the same time. And one day, Diplex Mark came with the yearbook, and he said “Cookie Walker.” That was my nickname, Cookie Walker. And he had a yearbook out, we attended school together for three years and didn’t even know it, and had been working together ten. So little things. We attend all the Hungerford mass reunions, because that’s what our memories are. And I can remember when we first went to Winter Park High we didn’t have all the problems that they had at Oakridge and some of the other schools when they integrated. I think because all our parents worked for everybody, all the good White folks, meant their job was on the line, and if we probably had misbehaved. It was just a different breed. We had a little bit more, the kids from here, we had a little bit more sophistication





than through all the foolishness. Like you say, a lot of the shops that’d lead us downtown, where the good White folks shopped at too, but we didn’t have those problems, and we kind of I guess out of respect for our parents we never had those problems, because they knew we knew some of the kids already, ‘cause our parents worked for them. And it’s like, Mr. that got us the recreational director, his daughter lives in Windermere now. And she played tennis, and the only sports we had was basketball. At Hungerford we had the sports, but when you got to Winter Park High it was only tennis and swimming for the girls, and none of us did the tennis and the swimming. And then when they first started this integration I can remember Lee Thomas, which was in my class, was a good athlete. Winter Park was losing football at that time. So by the time Lee Thomas and all that gang started coming over they started winning football. Winter Park hadn’t looked back yet from winning football. [Laughter from the panelists]

But it took a lot of the athletes from Hungerford, because they were in Edgewater, and Winter Park High.

	W:	So they split the communities?



	S:	Split the community three ways, and that’s what happened. But we still, for all of us like say class of [19]69, stepped with Hungerford when it’s time to do things with the school.

	W:	Want to say something Ms. Baylor?



	B:	Yes, she was talking about the chauffeurs, all the chauffeurs stayed at the Lochen Hotel. See my mother, and Mr. Lochen was Mr. Lochen’s brother, he was a preacher. And he came here and he brought mother here, and they went to





Mount Moriah, because he was a Baptist preacher. And she you know was raised up Methodist, but she married him so she had to go there. So he got sick, and he wanted to go back home so she carried him home, brought him down there. And she came back to her with Mr. Lochen in the hotel there because all of the big chauffeurs, they lived there when they come down from the north. That was their revenue, they stayed there and eat because there was good food there. And we had a laundry man. Had a laundry across the hotel there, between—

	DE:	Oh, Mr. Smith.



	B:	Yeah, Mr. Smith had a laundry over there.



	E:	And his brother was the chemistry teacher at Jones High School.



	B:	Uh-huh, we had a lot of things down there. And everything now, got everything now, got all the fancy shops and stuff. Don’t look like how it used to be us.

	S:	You see the last takeover came in, when I say takeover because that’s what it was, in 1990 they introduced community redevelopment. Like I said earlier the like communities had everything that they needed in their community. They had the speakeasies, they the laundromats, they had the grocery stores, they had whatever.

	B:	Restaurants.



	S:	Restaurants, everything.



	W:	And a random number of schools. E:	Definitely had the numbers.

	W:	[Laughter].





	S:	Everything you needed was in your community. Well, in 1990 they came up with community redevelopment.

	W:	The CRA.



	S:	Right, the CRA for Florida State Staff was one seventy, no one sixty-three dictates that. Just say that they came and looked at this community to say, “Oh those poor Colored folks over there, they’re light, they’re apathetic, they need help. This is what we’re going to do for you. We’re going to incorporate Park Avenue in these dimensions.” They described, laid out the land as safe from this street to this street, which really was from Dennings to Interlachen, and from Webster to Fairbanks. “That’s going to be community redevelopment area, and we’re going to take the tax dollars, tax increment dollars and keep in that community to rebuild, to redefine that area. Well the five hundred block, the next block over from here was the business district for this community, but as we look at that business district today there’s only two businesses of color there; that’s the barber shop and a beauty shop. When, before you had all the other types of establishments, bringing in people, personally I think that integration was the demise of Black, of vast majority of Black communities in the south, because then you started going out to the other stores and all. You weren’t supporting the stores, and things that was in your immediate community.

	W:	What about to the mall?



	S:	You can go to the mall. You can go to a chain. You can get it a little cheaper then. And then the groceries and the foods. At one time we had fresh produce, fresh greens in your community, whatever, it was harder to come by and





everything, because the larger conglomerates were selling at much cheaper than a little local person could sell it. So people, when I grew up, everybody had a garden in their yard. Did they garden? Now they’re going back trying to teach kids how to garden.

	B:	The chickens and everything.



	S:	Right, they’re trying to teach you. Today you have to have a permit to have a chicken.

	B:	Excuse me?



	DI:	We always had a chicken.



	B:	And we’d rid of all the chickens. Get them off the ground, anything to get rid of the chickens. [Laughter]

	W:	How did this happen in your opinion? Obviously people were still caring about their communities. But how did it happen?

	S:	How did it happen? Because now, I’m trying to save pennies just like the next person. Remember in the [19]70s or whatever things got bad, the economy was really bad and everything, so now if I can go to ANP, Winn Dixie, what’s some other gro—

	DI:	[Inaudible at 52:51].



	E:	Well, no, that was before Walmart and Publix. DE:	Publix, Albertsons.

	S:	Right, if I could go to the grocery store, and get a bag of rice for a dollar, opposed to having to go the Mackey X store, and it’s going to cost me a dollar fifty, or a dollar eighty or whatever. Where do you think I’m going? To the chain opposed to





this little small store in the community. Or they have another, what’s, the Pollock’s have a little store here on the corner, he had to sell his stuff a little higher—

	B:	To make something.



	S:	So now we’re now going out of the community to get the things that you normally would get. They did something else. City hall, when you, I need to, my house is falling down, I need to remodel my house or whatever, well they put those sneaky tactics in things. When I was coming up, the thing was the people was trying to say Morse Boulevard, that was a major thoroughfare through Winter Park, and it had two story houses, all type of houses and whatever there. Well today when CRA came, they finally wiped all of that out of there.

	S:	People for years, they look, this is how I personally feel again, that they look, “Oh, we gave those good Colored folks some prime property. Set in between Park Avenue and the inter Park Mall.” That was prime property, and we sat on the prime property. Now the line is drawn in the sand in their community that we would have house, house, house, house, house, house, house, house, but here you can have a house, you can have a business, you can have an apartment, you can have anything. This is how they bust up the community here. In West Winter Park you made our own streets much wider. They’re thoroughfares, they’re not residential streets. When I go to their community, or whatever, you can’t park four cars on the street. You have a car parked here, and a car parked here and two other cars to travel up a mountain. But in West Winter Park they do that, and, “Oh, it’s no problem.” Yes it is a problem. It is a serious problem. Each





day we continue to lose more and more property. They rezone it to something other than the single thing of residential. I resonated so much in city hall that the city motto was a “City of Homes,” they changed the city’s motto. Because I kept asking, “Who was in the ‘City of Homes’ for?” It’s certainly not a city of homes for me because you don’t allow me to have a home. When people back in the day wanted to get their houses, or their houses needed to be fixed or remodeled or whatever, they told them you couldn’t go in and just fix that back porch or whatever, you had to tear that house down and start over. Well, why should I have to tear my house down when I only need the back porch fixed? So that was another way of making people move on or whatever, for whatever reason.

People that lived in this community that owned property would not sell their property to other people of color in the community. So, now we’ve grown up. We’re ready to go to school, ready to come back to start. We have to move somewhere else, because there’s nowhere for us to live in this general area.

	E:	And besides from all that, you asking why some of the people lost so many homes in the city of Winter Park, it was this section. I can remember the first kids, I remember when we started integration, getting on drugs. That was a Jackson kid who went to Glenridge, started doing the drug thing. And now over the years drugs have hit so many homes in the city of Winter Park that a lot of the homes were lost because of people dealing with drugs. They over-mortgaged or they couldn’t pay whatever they had to pay, because they on drugs. They’d borrow, and borrow, and borrow, just like Ben Lakes. We used to have a business person here around the corner on Morse Boulevard all the way down to Simon. He





owned all the rail property, owned a store, owned a little juke joint. It was a lot, and he went around the corner to Simon Avenue. He owned all that property. He had a wife, Ms. Irene, and they had no children, but they left all their property, whole block of property, to their nieces and nephews, which is my other half; the Perry’s. And left it to them. One of the children get caught up in the drugs, so every time she would go and get in a little trouble, the White guy would go and bail her out. She signed something. Next time she’s in trouble again we give her some drugs, she get caught somehow, wonder how, and he’d go bail her out. So she keep putting her signature there. And so when they go to the point of, and it’s three kids that own the property now, three nieces and their grandnieces and nephews. All of a sudden Dan Bells comes up and says, “Hi, partner,” to Jackie, which is the oldest grandnieces. “Hi partner,” she didn’t understand what he was talking about down in city hall. Well he has gotten Fatima’s signature all those times and owned her a third of the property. So now they in awe of what to do.

So now he got the other weak link, the nephew, a weak link, a little money is put before him, now he has his part, now there’s only a third left. Now you got Jackie left, looking all dumbfounded, not knowing what to do, now he gets the whole thing. And I mean it’s, talking about prime property, it was prime property. Didn’t cost them anything, it was given to them. Hadn’t earned a thing, and all that property was taken from Morse Boulevard all the way around to Simon. Little things like that, and that happened to a lot of people in Winter Park. They lost because of drugs. Little things like that, and so—

	W:	And that came because of integration.





	E:	Integration, like I said I remember the first kid, and it was in y’all class, a Jackson kid that got on drugs. We knew things about drugs, but we weren’t into the drug scene then, but when integration started, that’s when it start coming more and more. Our kids smoked a few cigarettes, or what have you, but the drugs actually started and from then it’s been downhill ever since.

	W:	Yes, ma’am.



	DE:	I think too that comes about for a lack of education, I don’t mean education for going to college, just being educated on things about life. Because I really don’t think we were ready, we couldn’t see what this was going to do to us. We couldn’t see in the future. We weren’t prepared, and so therefore we didn’t get our kids prepared. Because I was just thinking of a situation I know where someone says, “I want to buy this property from you.” Well this property is worth ten million dollars. I’m going to say, “I’m going to give you three million dollars cash.” They think that’s a lot of money, they don’t realize what they’re giving away.

	W:	And by the time you pay in taxes, everything, you don’t have too much.



DE:  So I think we just need to be, I don’t know where you’re going to start, but we just need to be educated about these things, especially when you inherit something. I think it’s so bad when somebody inherits something and they lose it.

B:   And they lose it.



	S:	I found that my friends that have inherited something, they take it for granted, they can’t visualize their parents, their grandparents that have had to get out there to work so hard for it. Have had to really fight to keep that property or





whatever, so now it’s nothing to them. “Oh, I want a new car. I’ll sell this.” Okay, what if you had worked for that new car? Or it’s like things to me that are not important, they will sell a piece of property or give a piece of property away to be able to go and get that monetary something at that time. To me that’s just crazy, but it wasn’t left to me, I can’t tell them that they can’t do that, because it belongs to them. But I’m saying you have the money-making mechanism in your hand, and just won’t educate yourself to know how to use it for your advantage.

	W:	Ms. Dinkins, you had your hand up?



	DI:	The county, and the state, all they want to do is go take your property away from you, or we’re going to make a bypass.

	S:	Mmhm, that happened here.



	DI:	A bypass, and they’ll say, “Well, we’ll give you so and so and so and so,” when it’s worth ten times what they are offering you. And you might feel like you might need that particular amount of money at that time, but then you don’t have anything else left.

	S:	And like if you don’t want to sell your property to the state, the city, municipality, then they will use their eminent domain powers and say that “We are going to take this property because we have a better need for it.” I don’t think down here—it’s now called the MLK Park, but there is a block area to where it is the City of Winter Park only at this time, but people of color used to live—

	E:	That’s where the original sinkhole and all of that—.



	S:	But when they were going to build I-4, they came and told those people, “You have to move. We want your property, because we’re going to build I-4 there.”





Well, they never built I-4 there, they end up, I don’t know if the City of Winter Park bought it to them, or they turned it over to them, but then it was to be used as recreational property from, for evermore. We played softball there for years; they decided that—this is how they play ball. They decided that they didn’t want softball there any longer. Usually they send out a community survey asking what do the people, or what would the people like to have in their community. Well, when they no longer wanted softball to be there, they sent out a citywide survey because they knew the majority of their kids wanted to play soccer, because soccer was the new thing coming up. “Oh we’re going to move the softball fields out of the community. We’re going to move them up here, but you’ll still have access to them.” Well it’s a difference in me walking across the street to play softball than having to get in my car to ride two or three miles somewhere else to play. People need to become more aware in understanding that their voice, their vote makes a difference. And we, so many times, take that for granted. Yes, everybody come out to the presidential election. “Oh it’s big time. The president, the president!” But then it’s those little things that happen in your community— when you’re voting for your mayor, when you’re voting for your congressmen, when you’re voting for the little simple things or whatever—that makes a great difference or whatever. And we need to teach our kids. I set the meetings for twenty years, and I look back on them and say, “Hey, ain’t nobody teaching our kids nothing.” They just think that we’ll give them a computer, we’ll give them a basketball, or whatever. And no, no, no no no. I ain’t coming to meetings no more. I need to do stuff with the kids. And basically, that’s what I do. I stand up,





do something. Take care of your community. Don’t throw paper on the ground. It’s like I make them do projects. Every year we do four projects. One for themselves, that’s usually a retreat. They’ve never been anywhere. Let’s go to a hotel and plan out what we’re going to do for the year. We got to do something for the senior citizens, because you should be grateful that they left a piece of community for you. Then we do something for the little kids, and then we just do a communitywide project or whatever. If it’s no more than you see the men standing on the corner or whatever, well why can’t they out a bench there? So let’s petition them to put a bench there, so the men will have somewhere to sit or whatever. But it’s still a lot to be done. Day by day, our community, I feel like, is leaving us, and being taken away from us. Because the reason I say that’s it’s being taken away from us: going to meetings or whatever, you sit there and you make a decision, or city commissioners may make a decision, to say that this property is going to be zoned residential. Well the next five years you turn around and you got to go right back to a meeting, because you have a new regime and you have new commissioners and things in that never picked up a piece of paper to see what the regime before them, or the decisions they make before them, but all they know is something is here. They come in and change what you have fought for all this time. We felt like we needed affordable housing in this community. Now they’re asking, “Don’t y’all have enough affordable housing?” The only thing they’re building in their community are homes. So why would we want anything other than a home? In this community, they have built three parking garages. We don’t have one damn decent car in this community!





[Laughter] So we don’t need three parking garages. I’m saying—and then they don’t think about the environmental impact, what it does to the people’ health and all. I don’t want no four- or five-story anything next to my single-story house.

	DE:	And see, one of the things that I noticed—and I live in Orlando. I never get anything in the mail about, “Do you want to sell your home?” I own a house two doors down, and constantly getting stuff, “Do you want to sell this house?” “Do you want to sell this house?” And just think that that same letter you get in the hands of the right person, yeah, and they’re desperate for money that day, they going to sell their house, and more than likely it was given to them anyway. And that’s what constantly getting, and when we’re talking about the area down there when they displaced the people that lived down there, and we used to call it [inaudible 1:07:21]. And it was a kind of like wetland. But I remember Mr. Smith lived down there, and I think Hera lived down there, a cousin of ours; and some people, they went to Eatonville. The Wells went down there.

	DI:	They sure did.



	DE:	They all moved to Eatonville during that time. And that’s what they had to do at the time, but yet, then we come back over here, and they do the constant thing of getting people to move out of their property, or you find out that they really didn’t own the property, the White folks they worked for owned the property. Because they rented all those years, so you thought the people owned their homes. That was something that I discovered with somebody; that all these years, and when they died, I was checking into the property, and they didn’t own the house. The people they worked for owned the house. And I can remember right down the





street we had, for my grandmother worked, she worked for, all we knew was “The General.”

	B:	General Andrew. My daddy—



	DE:	Yeah, because her dad worked as the gardener! Her dad was the gardener; my grandmother was a maid; Ms. Ida was the cook.

	B:	That’s right.



	DE:	Mr. Ben, the chauffeur, he would pick everybody up every morning, take them out there to Interlachen or somewhere.

	B:	Mmhm, that’s right. The house still there. DE:	So you know where the house is, don’t you?

	B:	Yeah. I been down here. We’ve visited all around there. Had a good time. E:	Hmm, I’ll take her out there one day.

	W:	Well, we’ve had such a good talk; I don’t want to last it too long or tire you all out. But I’d like to just ask a couple of things to get you to respond to just a name, or idea, and get some responses from you, and then give you each a chance for final privilege, to just make a general comment. So the first comment will be— and then you think about it; whoever wants to chime in, please do: Barack and Michelle Obama.

	S:	I’m glad we had an opportunity to have a president and a first lady of color, but I feel like they have been—what’s the word I want to use? Too many games have been played with them, too much politics or whatever, to where they were not able to be as effective as they possibly could have been, simply because people are mean-spirited. And not only is it in the White House, it’s in the communities,





the neighborhoods, and all that we live in. And we do need to sit down, and have that talk. After the Trayvon Martin, the Zimmerman being found not guilty, and Juror—I’ll never forget this—and Juror B37?

	B:	Yes, 37!



	S:	Said that she believed what Zimmerman said wholeheartedly. B:	That’s what she said.

	S:	This is how I feel that that type of mentality, that type of thinking, takes place throughout the United States. That if you’re not White, you’re not right. And I don’t foresee my—maybe the next life, but in this life I know that I will not be White. So I have issues, and yes, we do need to sit down and talk. See we learn their language, their way of thinking, because we are forced to. But never once do they stop and consider us. It’s like we just go to school together; after school is done, over with: “Oh, you speak so well.” Well, why wouldn’t I speak well? “Oh you comprehend, you understand!” Well what do you think I did when I—I went to the same Winter Park High school that you did? What do you think happened when I went to school? You thought I ate the book? I read because I was supposed to read. I was supposed to gain something. So, I just feel like Barack Obama’s hands have been tied by mean-spirited people in the United States.

	DE:	Well, not to interrupt what Ms. Walker said, but at the same time, I also look at it as opportunities. You tell children, “never give up.” They can be anybody they want to be, regardless of how they get there. They can be that if they look forward to it. And I truly believe you can be anybody you want to believe in these United States. It’s just a hard task to get there, but you can’t give up. And that’s





what Barack and Michelle has done for me in encouraging young people: “Don’t give up. You can do it if you want to.”

	B:	I feel sorry for them, and I love them, because kept what he tried to do, they tried to pull him down. And that’s because of his color. When we was kids, my daddy always told us, say, “You know, there going come a person from way south and he going rule the world.” And when he came along, I knew what my daddy was talking, and I wondered, “How did Daddy know that?” But he told all of us, sit us down and talk to us. And he say, “There going come a person from way off, and going be of color, and going rule the world.” And when he got in there, I said, “Oh gee, Daddy was right!” How did my daddy know that? She’s a beautiful woman. She doing everything she can. He’s doing what he can. But they got knock- knocks. I don’t care where you go, it’s a knock-knock. But all he got to do is hold on there, he made it. He made it back there this time didn’t he?

	S:	Amen.



	B:	They had all that young man was talking about, and God knows he was telling stories. But he was telling stories all the time, trying to fool the public, and then when they caught him on tape saying about it? That was so beautiful. I laughed and I cried. When Winter Park took all Ms. Curtis, and all of them, terminate them homes, and you know they came back and tried to sell them the land back? What they thought was coming was I-4. But I-4 didn’t come through here. They took the land from the people because they knew, because it was coming this way, but I-4 went through Eatonville and Maitland. And they tried to get Ms. Curtis and them all to buy that, but [inaudible 1:13:45] went out there and got a place back





there; [inaudible 1:13:49] had got side by side out there; Ms. Curtis went to Eatonville, the other lady went to Eatonville, and her nephew went to Eatonville; and so, they didn’t want it back. But they tried. They tried to get them to buy it back, because they failed of what they did. I know everybody knew that. They tried to sell it back to them, but Ms. Curtis told her, “I don’t want it back now, I got a place, you know?” The place where she stayed until she died. I can’t keep him. But they do all of those things.

	E:	I just want to say that I’m very proud of the Obamas, also. But I often think about my father when I see them, or when I hear of them. My father finished a book that was called the Blue Book Webster, when he was a kid. That’s all the education that he had. So he believed in the old fashioned handshake. And so, he couldn’t understand contracts too well. So because he didn’t understand them, he wouldn’t sign them. He would say, every year he had an opportunity to sign a contract for the next year to bring people back or whatever; but he was working for some Jewish people the last time, and they tried to get him to sign it, and he said no. He says, “Well, we’re going shake hands on this.” And he said “The one thing you have to remember: I believe if you shake your hand, you putting your life on the line with me, telling me that this is what you’re going to do.” So he said that learn his ways, and beat him at his game. And I think Obama learned the game. He went through the channels and everything he was supposed to. He knew he was going to run up against all this opposition. But I think in all of the things they say and do, they have not been able to break him or his spirit.





	B:	Spirit, no.



	E:	I think it’s so great, because you say, “My kid can be anything?” Yeah, now we know he can be president of these United States. So you can be anything. Little things, you start here, and you learn whatever you need to learn to prepare you for going where you want to go. Now he probably never even dreamed of being president of the United States, but since the opportunity was there, he was able to take advantage of it. And I think about my father, and I think about Mr.

Johnson who taught my daughter at tennis at Eatonville, and when he first started he stopped her from rolling tires down the road. And he said, “Would you like to play tennis?” She said, “If you show me how to play it, I’ll play it.” So he used to tell her all the time, he would take her—she went all over the United States traveling with tennis—and he would say “I want you to pay particular attention to”—a particular girl who played like her, but did things that were better, to make her better. And he said, “Learn their game.” And when Tina would be playing, many times he would be on the sidelines—of course he couldn’t say anything cause you can’t coach then. And so they had signs that they would give to each other, and he would always say, “learn their game. See what she’s doing to you. She’s making you run; you got to play the game. So, make her run.

Switch this around,” or whatever. And she and I were talking about that, and she was saying, we were talking about how Mrs. Obama had to find her niche in the White House, and she did. And nobody has ever done that before. Mrs.

Roosevelt of course went planting flowers all over the United States, and making this countryside beautiful, and this type thing. But hers has been about health.





So, I think it’s something that all of us should pay more attention to our health. So she’s encouraged all of us, and I just think that he knows he can’t run anymore, but he’s doing the best he can with what he has. And I applaud him for speaking out the other day about this Trayvon situation. He has to remember, he’s not just the Black people’ president, and he’s telling us this all the time. So I would like to see him, when he leaves that White House, leave it on an up, [inaudible 1:18:22] situation, whatever it is. When they ask us to do certain things to push him there, we just need to do what we can, and teach our kids: teach our kids to vote, and teach our kids to be proud of their heritage, because this is how we’re losing so much of the property and stuff. And the kids don’t know.

	DI:	That’s right.



	E:	And you’ve got to teach them their heritage. You got to let them know how important it is—and I’m going to quit when I say this: my husband’s family live up in Madison, Florida, and they all had two or three hundred acres of land. So when the farmer died, he had a hundred acres, and he had five kids. So he left each one of them a portion. And then the mother died, but she split hers before she died so there wouldn’t be any argument. So now, the road is—some highway or something—is trying to come through, and each one of these kids, they’re upset. They got to deal with each one of these children about this property. It’s all along that road, but it belongs to ten different kids, or five different kids. So my daughter said to me, she says, “I’m not selling mine; I only have five acres.” She said, “But I inherited that five acres from my great-great-grandfather. And I’m going to hang onto it. They going to have to take me to court, and I’m going to





get a lawyer and fight him. I will not just hand it over.” And this is what our kids need to do. We may lose, but they going know they had a fight. We were not handing it over to them.

	DI:	Thank you.



	W:	Ms. Dinkins you have a—?



	DI:	Yes, I am very proud about our president. I hear so many people trying to push him down in so many ways, but he has the ability to stand strong, and high, and he’s going to get what he needs to get done, because he knows how, the words to say, to get it done. And may God bless him.

	E:	Amen.



	W:	I guess it wouldn’t be right to try to leave this part of the statement and not talk about this George Zimmerman, Trayvon Martin thing. So I’d like to get a few comment from you all. What are your thoughts about—?

	B:	Well, I’m very upset about it, because he hated the Black in the first place. He had called the 911 on the Black before, and two of those, they lived in his community where he was. That’s what I was told, and that was in the news. And then, when he saw Trayvon there, he called the police and told them. They told him, “Are you following him?” “No, but I’m going to.” He say, “Don’t do that. You wait there.” He say, “They been getting away, but this one will not.” I will remember that the longest that I live, because that’s what he said. He intend to kill him. He intend for him to not get away, because he say, “This one. This one will not get away.” That man nothing but murdered a little child. And I just feel so sorry for the parents, since they—but they announced yesterday that they put a





hold on his gun, not to give him his gun back. That is a beautiful thing, because he going kill again.

	E:	Oh, he’ll buy another one. S:	He’ll buy another one.

	B:	If he buy, he still—in my heart, I feel he’ll kill again, because it’s in him.



	DE:	I think these laws that we have, I mean, that’s where it has to start. They have to change the laws. But what the law is going to force us to do is be prepared for these type of situations. He’s dead and he hadn’t done anything. So if I’m going to die, I’m going die fighting. Somebody else is going down with me. And it’s forcing us to do things like that. And where I may not—I’m saying that, I may not every buy a gun, but how many people are going to say that? How many people are not going to? They have to defend themselves. I remember my son was friends with a couple of kids from Maitland, White kids from Maitland. Father was a judge, a couple of attorneys and doctors, and they would go riding in this little boy’s jeep. And when they would get in trouble, they said, “Von, you drive.” I said, “Don’t ever drive their car. Never drive their car.” And I told him, I said, “You do, I’m taking your driver’s license so you can’t drive.” I said, “Look out for—” “Oh Ma, they wouldn’t do that. They’re my best friends!” Oh I know he loved them, you know? And I said to him, I said, “If they’re your best friends, how many nights have you spent over their house?” You best friends with Anthony, you go over here, you spend the night. “Well, I go to their parties.” I said, “they’re your friends for now. Next year they may not be your friends. But Anthony lives right down the street. You going be friends with him forever. But you got to be very careful about





how you live, and what you do, and where you go with these boys, because your life might depend on it. They get in jail? Their dad, Judge What’s-his-name, he call down, and they don’t even take his son to jail, but they going take you.”

	B:	They going show him.



	DE:	“So, I hate to say you different, but,” I say, “You are. You’re special. You’re special to me and for this family. You just have to protect yourself, look out for yourself, and know that what I’m saying, what I’m saying to you may not happen to you, but you can see it happen to somebody else. So, be aware.”

	W:	Something that you said triggered a memory for me. There are a group of young people right now who have occupied the Florida capital. The Dream Defenders, kind of bringing back that spirit of the Civil Rights Movement—the sit-ins, the protests. What are your thoughts about these young people dealing with Governor Rick Scott? Are they doing the right thing, or they doing something else?

	DE:	I think it’s great because they’re peaceful. We’ve had times when we weren’t peaceful. But at least they’re trying to do it that way. I don’t think it’s going to result in anything about getting those laws changed, because he said he’s already made his statement. But I think we got to start with the senators and the representatives in trying to get things changed so the laws can get changed.

Because he doesn’t really change the laws, you know that. But they’re making a statement, and I think that’s good.

	W:	Ms. Dinkins, I saw a recognition on your face. You want to say something?





	DI:	I think that we should be taught to vote. The vote is the most important thing in this world. Now, I can remember when the little policeman from Maitland came out to Eatonville, and encouraged the people to vote. Mister, can’t think of his name right now but he’s a little tiny man. But he came out and encouraged the people. He had a meeting, encouraged us. We stood on the street, in a group. He say, “Now, I want you all to register and vote.” That was way back. And if you don’t encourage a child to vote, then we’ll be lost. So we need some training. The churches used to teach some politics, but they done got so now all they want is money. And give me a fine car to drive in, and don’t preach the gospel right.

Don’t use it the right way. And so we got a lot of training to be taught. We’re way behind in training. We don’t encourage our children to go to Sunday school, and that Sunday school is one of the greatest chronicles of your life, because you learn there. And when you learn it, it hits you and you see somebody else that need it, you tell it to them, and encourage them. I’m past time now. I’ve seen so much, and so many things happen. But we need some training. Definitely, we need some training.

	W:	I think there’s something what you say. When I was growing up, I went to Sunday school, Baptist Training Union, Vacation Bible School.

	B:	Yes, everything!



	W:	And now the schools are so secular. They don’t want to teach values, teach religion, but I think about my friends who didn’t go to Sunday school; if you don’t know in this part of the country who Daniel was, and what he was doing in the Lion’s Den, whether you’re religious or now, you can’t have a common frame of





reference with people. If you don’t know who the Good Samaritan was, whether or what happened to Saul on the way to Damascus, that is such an important part of the storytelling, how we deal with people. What about this parable? What about this song? Things like that. So, now that the schools are like this, that you don’t have a Bible reading in the morning, and you don’t teach those things, what are the ways that young people can learn these important values? How do you transmit those values in the community to a young generation, which really is highly disinterested, unplugged, don’t know what they don’t know, and don’t want to know. What is the solution from your years, your wisdom? How would you approach it?

	DI:	I think the community that you live in is the best place to start. Have a yard party, or something that will bring the children together. And when you get them together, then you’ll have an opportunity to tell them what it right and what is wrong, because we have so many children—

	DE:	Let me tell you my experience: when I was young we went to Sunday school, BTR, but my daddy taught us that Sunday school lesson before I went. So if my teacher say something wrong, I can say, “My daddy say—!” [Laughter] You know. But he knew that. Like I say, his father was a minister, but he was a minister that taught them. And so, my father taught us. So as a result of that, I can’t help but teach my kids.

	B:	That’s right.



	DE:	I have dinner—I mean, my kids are all grown and around—but I have dinner every Sunday. Matlea is there, my son is there, and anybody else who want to





come. Now, we eat and we laugh and talk, and our conversations end with the Bible on every one of those sit-ins. So, it’s just common nature for us. I’m not saying I’m the most religious person in the world. My kids know, but it comes from teaching at home; I have to. But let me tell you this experience I had, because it broke my heart: I retired years ago, but this last year a friend of mine was in the DROP program, and she had to get out, and she is not old enough to draw social security or anything. And she said to me, “I just can’t live off this little bit of money.” And she said, “I’m looking for somebody to work in the office for me for six months, so then I can go back.” So I said, “Okay.” So I went through all that trouble. [Laughter] It’s been a long time since I filled out an application for a job and all. Go down to the county office, fingerprint, and all this stuff. I told her, I said, “You know it cost me fifty-some dollars to get fingerprinted and all of this?” But I was trying to help her. So, I worked for six months. And then when the six months was up, she went to go to work, and they told her they changed it to a year. She said, “Oh, Ms. Dexter, I hate to ask you, can you work six more months?” I said, “I hate for you to ask me to, but I’m going to go ahead and work.” And one of the things I did, it was like intervention with the second graders. That was my little group. This little boy told me one day—I mean, you think about who’s teaching these kids—this little boy said to me, “I’m not going do nothing you say. I’m not going do anything.” He has, what is it the ADA? Or whatever. So he didn’t have his medicine. I said, “You didn’t have your medicine?” “No I didn’t have my medicine. It’s in my momma’s bedroom.” And I said, “Well, I’ll call her, and we can get your medicine here.” “I’m telling you it





ain’t going do no good to call her, Ms. Dexter.” I said, “Why?” “Because a man came over. They in the room, and they’ve been locked up in that room all day, all night.” Second graders!

	E:	Yes, ma’am.



	DE:	Second graders! I said, “How many sisters and brothers do you have?” He said, “Me, and my little brother, and my sister.” And I said, “Are they on medicine?” “No, nobody on medicine but me, and she keeps it put up in her room.” And he couldn’t get to it. But I was thinking, “Who’s teaching this kid?”

	S:	Nobody.



	DI:	Nobody.



	B:	He’s teaching hisself.



	DE:	And then, how many do we have like that? Now, those kids really—I never knew there were so many kids on medication until I started working there at that school. And how many parents don’t care!

	E:	But you know they get a check for every child that take that medicine. They call it the “crazy check.”

	B:	Really?



	E:	I know our school had, Dr. Philips, there was a kid who was a senior, and he was fed up with getting crazy check, because his mom wasn’t sharing with him anyway, and he wanted to go into a regular curriculum. And he actually left home, and was living with another family down the street from where I live, because he didn’t want to get that crazy check anymore. She put him out, because she wanted that money. So every time your child is taking all that





medicine, and they put them in those programs, they get a check for those kids. That’s what this is about: income. This is not about the kid being crazy. And then they go for a certification, they tell them, “Act crazy.” They tell them what to do.

DE:  Oh, my Lord!



E:  And that started Head Start. He used to tell me how some of the parents come in Head Start and tell the kids, “Now, this is the day that you supposed to do all this crazy stuff.”

DE:  So, now how are you gonna reach those kids?



E:   Cause their parents are on that stuff that’s why. You can’t reach them.



DE:  But this little boy wanted to write, he wanted to write. That really got me. So I told him, I said I’ll find out where he lives, and maybe I can go—my husband say, “Go what, be shot?” [Laughter]

B:   Don’t go there.



	E:	Because you can’t change the parent, and that’s what the problem is with our young parents. It’s all about the money.

B:  That’s why I gave up Head Start— S:  My—

B:   Excuse me.



S:   Go ahead.



	B:	I gave up Head Start because when we—when I—was working we gave the children train rides, and the parents picked them up from Sanford in cars. We carried them Sea World, we carried them to Rollins College, we carried them





everywhere. They don’t do anything like that now. And then, see, the parents want you to raise them and teach them.

	E:	But you can’t touch them!



	B:	Oh you know not to do that! We learned that in school. But listen, I sent the lady a note, and God knows I was working on at the church with Ms. Ray. And I told her, “You want us to teach the children, raise them and teach them. We’re here to teach your children they education. You raise them at home.” She said she was coming down there, and what she going do to me. I say, “Come on. You will never go back.” I meant it, from my heart. If she’d have come down there, they’d have put me in that big old jailhouse. I would have laid her out. I always have my gun, you know. Now, I didn’t play. So it was time, but I had to [inaudible 1:34:35], I gave it up and just start working here. You not going tell me what you going to do and I’m trying to help your child. Because that’s what we went to school; for the teaching.

	DI:	Well you see, one thing that happened in this area, and it’s a sad thing to think about it, but it happened: the soldiers were here in Orlando, in Orange County. And they had, if they had one they had a million here. And the soldiers ruined this area, because the girls, “Oh, I got me a soldier!” [Laughter]

	B:	Now, I married one, that ain’t ruined me. [Laughter].



	DI:	Yes ma’am. Yes, ma’am. But let me finish the story. All right, so they had got the soldier, and got a baby.

	B:	I didn’t deal with that.





	DI:	That’s, well, you knew what to do. And then, you see, after that happened, the little child grew up to be twelve years old, the soldiers were still around, so they got that little child. So, the momma had time to change the trail, to train the child. So we have lost our young people through that part of life. That child got old enough to get a soldier. So, we got twelve-year-old children having twelve-year- old children, and they haven’t had time to train the child, because Momma was out busy with the soldier. Got me, and I got you, and so we don’t have time to—. So we have lost—and our churches now, all the ministers are thinking about is—

	DE:	I beg to differ with that. All the ministers aren’t like that. DI:	Wait a minute.

	E:	Not all.



	DI:	Not all.



	E:	Most.



	DI:	Most.



	DE:	It might be a lot of them, I don’t know.



	DI:	If you turn your television on, you get one in this religion, and one in that religion, and one in this religion, and this religion, and not—. You see, religion is not the thing to teach. You teach your child how to live. So, religion is nothing but an idol. Religion is nothing but an idol, because you were worshipping what they’re telling you instead of understanding what’s in the Bible. I’m through with it.

	DE:	What’s your final thought, Carol?



	E:	Well, my final thought with—. [Laughter] We’ve talked about a lot of things.



Trayvon Martin things, the this and the that. The kids in Tallahassee. Doing all





the right things; we just need to get more of our children involved, young adults involved. But the bottom line, our churches have got to do a better job. Bottom line, they have to—we can all read the Bible, but somehow, we read that Bible, we see so many different things. Because we want to have all these different whatever you call it up there. It’s only one Bible. We claim to believe it, but yet we do all these different things. And brought up, we know the ministers weren’t all—

	B:	Perfect.



	E:	Perfect. But the point was, there are things that were discussed in the church that helped kept the community on task. Our ministers meet now, and it’s all about self; what their church can get, how big their church can be. We have to reach out to our communities. And I used to look at, a few years ago, how you’d see these White churches come into our communities with their buses, to pick up our kids, and take back to their church. What are our churches doing? And the difference was, they would come pick them up, they would feed them, teach them whatever they taught them, and then they’d come back to our neighborhood. Our ministers don’t want to do that. We have to reach out and teach these kids, because the parents don’t know, and they’re the same parents you’re talking about, Mrs. Dinkins. They’re young parents, they have young kids, and they kids have kids.

	B:	That’s right.



	E:	And no one’s teaching them. No one’s teaching them, and our churches is a big responsibil[ity]. That’s where we grew up, and all the things that happened with Civil Rights was through all the churches, mostly. And we’ve lost all of that. I





know we can go to integrated churches and stuff, but we’ve lost a lot. And I just, all my prayers that, our churches are not doing enough in our communities. And my hat’s off to any young adult who stands in Tallahassee, regardless if it make a difference or not, just like one vote. One vote makes a difference.

	B:	Absolutely does.



	E:	And we have got to teach that to our kids: one vote makes a difference. And I don’t care if you lose this time, but you’ll win the next time if you keep hanging in there. And our churches have got to start speaking out a little bit more, and stop talking about the “I” part, and do the “we” part. And I truly, truly believe that. And once we start doing that, we can get back on track again. Trayvon Martin, I just say it’s all in God’s hands now. If he’s guilty, as we all think he is—well, we may not know, because we weren’t there—but God will take care of his heart. He’s aware of his heart down, his mind down, he’ll be the craziest man on the earth. It will happen to him. If that’s God’s will, “‘Vengeance is mine,’ said the Lord”; I believe that. And I’m through with the Trayvon Martin thing, because I have two sons, and it can happen to them any day. It can happen to me any day. But I just say it’s in God’s hands. If we just trust in God—and I truly believe in God, but he’ll take care of George Zimmerman. And that’s the way we have to look at it, because the more we talk, people get upset, they never agree. And we not going to agree on this thing, because we weren’t there. So, just leave it in God’s hands, I think, will be fine. And if we do everything and leave it in God’s hands we’ll be fine. Because, again, that’s where we got back from the Sunday school. We were taught right and wrong. Your mom and dad told you right and wrong, but you





heard it again. And it doesn’t hurt to hear it over and over every day. Even now, we still need to hear right and wrong. As adults, as old as we are, we still need to hear, and we still need to go by that. If we do that, we’ll be okay. We can’t give up. I truly believe we have to keep encouraging ourselves, our children, our grandchildren, our great-grandchildren; our neighbors’ children. Even though we know we can’t do the things we used to do, but we can still pray for them. We can still encourage them, and be there for them, because I believe in helping other people, and reaching—. That’s the way we were brought up, always helping other people. So this community, this country can come back, but we have to put God first.

	DE:	Absolutely.



	B:	We have to put him first for everything. E:	Everything, yes.

	B:	That’s why I’m here today. Only God, my God. E:	Amen to that.

	B:	And I thank God for that, because I know I’ve had a hard time, but I can walk without a stick today.

	E:	Yeah, and we all are going to go through something. B:	And I thank God for it.

	E:	Ms. Linda Walker?



	S:	My final thoughts are, we as people of color have the power, and we need to be able to realize that we have the power. Dealing with the United States, we can vote; we need to get out and vote. And the only other thing they understand is





money. And we, believe it or not, have the money, but we just don’t know how to use it wisely. We need to look at our global spending as to how much we as people of color spend. And we can make a difference here in these United States that we live in. And yes, we do need to be trained in a variety of aspects. We need to take it back to the communities, to get to know your community, to get to know your neighbor, to get to know the people in your community, and we can make a difference. But we got to quit looking at the news, allowing people to shape our ideas, or thoughts and all, by putting us down, telling us that, “You’re not worthy of anything. You don’t look right. You’re not the right size. Your hair—” These things have been going on for generations, and will go on for generations to come. But there again, I know that we have the power. We need to be trained to know how to use the powers that we have. The laws of the land, we can make a difference by—like you said, the group of kids in Tallahassee. They’re doing the right thing. They know that they have the power. It might not make a difference today, but Rick Scott know that there’s an election coming up. He’s going to stop and think about it. That’s power. Money—that’s power. So, we just need to stay focused on whatever, and we can make a difference.

	W:	Ms. Walker, Ms. Everett, Ms. Dinkins, Ms. Baylor, Ms. Dexter; on behalf of the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program and our partnership here with Rollins College, and with Hannibal Square Heritage Center, I cannot thank you enough for this opportunity to benefit from your wisdom, and your perspective. It’s been an honor for me. Again, I just edify you and thank you, and lift you up for all you have done and continue to do. On behalf of our program, these will be the final





comments that I make. I know you’ve made some comments in between, but I’d like to extend to each and all of you again final privilege, if there’s any comment that you might want to make. And when you’ve exhausted the comments that you choose to make at this time, that will conclude the interview with our thanks. And once again, here on July 20th, 2013 from Winter Park, thank you very much for participating. So, I’ll leave it to you.

	B:	I’m writing a book. I haven’t finished it yet, because I’ve been sick, but I am writing a book for Winter Park. I asked my daughter over there to check it out. It’s in [inaudible 1:44:44]. I’d bring it over, I wanted to scan it, because I got some more to put in it. You write about feelings. It’s going to be nice, but it’s about Winter Park. Because I was raised here, I’m going write about it.

	S:	I gave my final thoughts, but I have one more something that I thought about: the building that we sit in today is called the Heritage Center. The City of Winter Park just happened to change their motto to “the city of heritage and culture.” The way in which we got this building was, my sister and I was on the Martin Luther King board one year. Peter Schreyer, the CEO I guess of Crealdé of School of Art or whatever, we asked him to be our guest speaker. So I told my sister, “Tell him we’re interested in doing a collection of pictures about West Winter Park” and all, because we knew that he had did this in other areas. He said, “Oh, this is one of the things that I was interested in doing.” So I say, “Let’s back up.” We encouraged him, and I’m saying that to say this: it is sad that that if we had gone to the City of Winter Park and told them that we wanted a heritage center, we never would have gotten it. We still would have been debating that today. But





here he was; we just whispered the word in his ear, continued to encourage him, backed him in the things, and today we sit in the heritage center. So, I said that to say this: it’s not how you get it, but you got what you wanted. That’s all that mattered. We got this building to display the history of the people of West Winter Park. It doesn’t matter to me that we had to take another engine to get it, but we got it.

	DI:	I just want to say I really have enjoyed all this information, because if we hadn’t been here together, we never would have known.

	S:	That’s so true. You’re absolutely right. And thank you, sir, for giving us this opportunity. Keep up the good work. Go around to other communities. Do the same thing, because I know that there are other communities that have stories that are being buried, that are being lost, or whatever. We’re not going to be here forever, but we can always go back and say, “Oh, you can go to Rollins, you can go to University of Florida, or whatever; they have some documentation on what took place back in the day.” Thank you.

[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Jennifer Romero, September 15, 2016



	Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez and Ryan Morini, August 2, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 23, 2019