AAHP 262; Padgett; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 262 David Padgett

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Justin Dunnavant on April 10, 2012 1 hour and 4 minutes | 31 pages



Abstract: Dr. David Padgett got his PhD at the University of Florida and was a major player in the civil rights movement for Black students on campus. He discusses his experiences as a member of the Black Student Union: zero-funding, assault by racist groups (i.e. Skinheads), the relationship with other minority groups on campus, confrontation with UF police, and the creation of a White Student Union. Dr. Padgett also discusses Winnie Mandela speaking in Gainesville due to the efforts of the Black Student Union, his relationship with UF Black faculty, the development of his political consciousness, working at all-Black colleges, and involvement in local elections.



Keywords: African American History; Black Student Union; White Student Union; Winnie Mandela



Standards:



SS.912.A.1.3 Utilize timelines to identify the time sequence of historical data.



SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.



SS.912.A.5.9 Ku Klux Klan



SS.912.A.7.12 Analyze political, economic, and social concerns that emerged at the end of the 20th century and into the 21st century.



SS.912.A.7.5 Civil rights tactics



SS.912.A.7.5 Compare nonviolent and violent approaches utilized by groups (African Americans, women, Native Americans, Hispanics) to achieve civil rights.







For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 262

Interviewee: David Padgett Interviewer: Justin Dunnavant Date: April 10, 2012



	D:	My name is Justin Dunnavant and I’m here at the Oral History Program at the University of Florida and I’m talking with Dr. David—is that Page or Padgett?

	P:	Padgett.



	D:	And is that P-A-D-G-E-T-T? P:	Yeah.

	D:	Okay. Alright, cool. Yeah and we just wanted to talk a little bit about some of the history at the University of Florida. But I guess before we go into that I just want to get a little background information on yourself. On, you know, where you came from, how you eventually made it to the University of Florida, where you were before here?

	P:	Okay, I’m really from Baltimore, Maryland. And then I went to undergrad at Western Kentucky University and then I worked for the Federal government for a while and Oak Ridge National Lab. It’s primarily environmental sciences for lack of a better term. And then I got awarded a McKnight fellowship and that kind of was time to come back to grad school and at that time the University of Florida was the only institution in Florida that had a Key-to-Key program in geography so that’s pretty much how I ended up at UF.

	D:	Ah, okay. I am a fellow McKnight myself. [Laughter] P:	Oh great, yeah.

	D:	Okay so what year did you graduate undergrad and what year did you come to UF, if you don’t mind me asking?

	P:	I graduated undergrad in 1987 and I came to UF in 1989.





	D:	1989? Oh, okay. And you came here for your masters and your PhD? P:	Yeah.

	D:	Oh, okay. Now what was the environment like in 1989?



	P:	Well, you know, we were just kind of—it was pretty volatile. We had nationally—if I can remember, I’m trying to remember, it’s kind of fuzzy. But I know that it was around the time of—it was before O.J. O.J. hadn’t happened yet. O.J. was probably 1995. But that was around the time that Rodney King and the LA riot happened while I was at UF. It was a pretty volatile time for the Black students.

There was a lot of the remnant Reagan-era attitude there from the 1980s. You know, Clinton was just starting to get cranked up so there was a bit of a change in attitude nationally, but still you had the old riding attitude amongst a lot of White students who still had that old Reagan, anti-affirmative action type mentality. You know?

	D:	Yeah.



	P:	So when I first came here, Dr. Imani and I, one of the first things we encountered was that the student government was essentially trying to zero-fund the Black student union. And so that was our first kind of involvement with anything that I can remember at UF, was trying to pretty much advise undergraduates in how not to get zero-funded.

	D:	Okay, do you know what year that was? P:	That was [19]89.

	D:	That was [19]89? Oh, so that was right when you came.





	P:	Yeah and that was, you know—and pretty much every year after the student government would try to zero-fund the Black student union. And that seemed to be the theme every year. There was this whole feeling that, you know, the Black students were where they are because of affirmative action and that they really didn’t belong there. Just that whole Reagan-era attitude still kind of prevailing, you know?

	D:	Right, right. Yeah I was talking to a student that was here back around that time period and he was talking about some of the measures that you and Dr. Imani took to make sure that that didn’t happen. I was wondering if you could go into detail about some of the events that surrounded that whole—

	P:	Yeah well early on I guess about that first time we tried to kind of advise undergrads. Our stance was to not to believe or trust anything that they were told at any time, you know. But the students who were president of the Black Student Union and other organizations, you know, they were young, they were naïve. And so they had really you know they were, middle-class they hadn’t encountered any real racism. And so they were easy. They would really, really, put the trust in the word of the student government. And then we had administrators who basically were White administrators or president who had no clue about racism or race relations. It was really—I got to say, that whole Reagan era fog was still largely in place. You know what I mean? It was still largely among attitude that—and so our first things was we thought we would get everything in writing. You know, don’t be so trusting. It’s going to get burnt, you know. So that’s where we started with the undergrad students.





	D:	Yeah, and I know from there it kind of escalated a little bit. They became adamant about not funding the BSU. And—

	P:	Yeah, every year was you know, “We’re not going to fund the Black Student Union, we’re not going to fund Black History Month, we’re not going to fund the African American Cultural Center.” In fact, while we were there the African American Cultural Center was vandalized by skinheads. At one point they spray- painted all kinds of, you know, I can’t remember exactly what, but you know, “Go Back to Africa” that kind of thing. N-word on the Black Student Union. The skinheads actually set up shop across the street from campus. And we paid them a visit and that turned out to be kind of confrontational. I don’t know, some people were—there were some shots fired at one point, I wasn’t there when the shots were fired. I don’t know who fired the shots but it got kind of ugly because the skinheads actually went about attacking African American students. They attacked maybe four or five and it seemed as if neither the Gainesville Police nor the UF Police were willing to follow up on it. And so we decided we were going to deal with it and so we were pretty much peaceful in our tactics but we had members in our organization that weren’t necessarily going to be peaceful. And so some shots were fired; like I said, I wasn’t there. I just know that once they— but soon after that the skinheads decided that they weren’t going to stick around campus anymore.

	D:	Right. And you said organization. What organization specifically?



	P:	Well I mean our organization was of course the Loyal Fraternal Order of 99 or some people call it Project 99. Because back then we believed that African





Americans would be politically, economically, and socially extinct by 1999 unless significant action was undertaken. That was basically the theme.

	D:	And was that formed in 1989?



	P:	I can’t quite recall the year, roughly here, roughly there. You are probably better with Dr. Imani, he is the original founder, so.

	D:	Oh, okay. What was your position in that organization, if you don’t mind? P:	Oh, I was the master of information.

	D:	Oh, okay. So what did that entail just on a regular basis? P:	Basically research, counterintelligence, basically.

	D:	Oh, okay. So you came here, it was a pretty volatile situation, the IBC was vandalized. From that disorganization sprang about. Were there other Black graduate students as well, besides yourself and Dr. Imani?

	P:	Yeah there were several others here involved. You know, we didn’t have a large organization. We probably had at most at any time ten, fifteen members who would admit to being members. And several underground affiliates. A lot of the organization was underground. So we had a lot of people in the community, and I mean a lot of people in the community were associated with the organization.

	D:	And what kind of support did they provide you all? P:	Well really just I don’t know, I wouldn’t—

	D:	More so numbers than actual—



	P:	I mean they provided—it was more or less the teamwork. We were involved in whatever was happening in the African American community. For example, well I can’t remember the exact year, but we tried different cases. Oh, there was some





cases where there was a store there called Food for Less, I think, it was a grocery store and they were in the practice of physically assaulting African American shoppers if they suspected a shoplifting. And so we moved in, in support of the relatives in the community and confronted the store personnel. And basically what it was, was that the employees didn’t know that they were not supposed to be used as security. And so we just asked them in open forum, “Well if this gentleman here went out and tried to accost a so-called shoplifter and sustained an injury, would he be covered under workman’s compensation?” And corporate people were like, “Well, no.” And so that pretty much put a stop to that because once the employees realized that they were being used as lackeys for their bosses who were too cheap to pay for real security that shut that whole thing down. And then there was another case where Gainesville Police Department was not, they weren’t enforcing—well there was this feud between the Gainesville Police and the UF Police whereas where to enforce the law basically. Whose turf was whose? So, and this about around the time that the skinheads were attacking students and so what was happening was that the skinheads were attacking Black students and the students would actually call UF Police. And the police would say, “Where are you?” and these attacks would often take place off-campus like right across the street near Burger King or somewhere over there in the student ghetto as we used to call it. So the UF Police would be like, “Well we aren’t coming,” and the Gainesville Police would be like, “Well we aren’t coming either.” So we exposed that there was this kind of no-man’s land of enforcement, supposedly, in and around UF campus. And so





after we exposed that, they changed the rule giving UF Police the right to respond to UF students’ issues within a one-mile radius of the campus. Yeah, but then that also applies to anybody that happens to be under the rug. So yeah that was another thing that we encountered.

D:  Okay, so what other organizations were there in place? I know you had the—it was the Loyal Order of 99 or Project 99, and then I’m guessing the BGSO, the Black Graduate Student Organization was around at that time.

	P:	Yeah we had BGSO, CaribSA, the BSU—Black Student Union—of course different sororities.

	D:	Did they take similar stances or were they more passive in their actions in the treatment of the African Americans on campus?

	P:	Well I mean in the BGSO we had other concerns so, you know, that was an older student union. They weren’t going to be as radical, so to speak.

	D:	Right.



	P:	But they were political more than radical. The Black Student Union was the largest group that we dealt with most of the time and, you know, we tried to radicalize them as much as possible although a lot of them wanted to party and, you know, they were young. They weren’t as versed on the struggle as we were. And then with CaribSA, at first we had kind of an adversary relationship with CaribSA. And it was pretty much that way until—they thought that we were just out of control, rabble-rousing, causing trouble. And then there was a situation where one of the Black fraternities had a party at a White fraternity house and something happened, I don’t know what happened, but a fight broke out. And





pretty much according to the frat guys, they had broken up the fight but some of the White fraternity guys were still in the house and they called the police. And so like I said, even though by the time the police got there the fight had broken up.

Of course Gainesville Police being Gainesville Police, decided they were going to rough up some Black folks just for the heck of it. And one of the police officers slipped and fell and so his partner called an Officer down call. So we had police coming from—oh and at that time what happened was, that was also around the time of that Gainesville serial killer.

	D:	Oh, okay I’ve heard a little bit about it but not too much. Could you explain that a little bit?

	P:	Yeah, I can’t remember this guy’s name but he killed maybe six or seven people, mostly young women, but the place was crazy. I mean it was really crazy before he got caught, when the bodies kept turning up. And they were students. I think maybe at least three or four of them were students. Mostly young ladies, one guy got caught in the mix. But when he was on the loose, the police presence was stepped up immensely. I mean there were cops from all over the state looking for him. So we had this unusually high police presence and after about two or three weeks they were just getting bored. I mean they were just there, you know. And then when that incident took place I guess they were all in the same radio frequency or something and this guy called “Officer Down.” Forty-two police officers responded to the call. And so it was such a mess that the university unofficially said that there could be no more Black events on-campus. But CaribSA didn’t think that they were included amongst the Blacks. You know,





“We’re Jamaicans,” you know, whatever. “Puerto Rican, Dominican, Trini. I’m not Black, okay.” So they went all around trying to—the Caribbean Sun Splash was coming up so they were trying to get venues for the Caribbean Sun Splash events and it was like, “No, no, no, no, no.” And so CaribSA came to us and was like, “What’s going on?” And I said, “You didn’t hear? You guys didn’t hear about what happened with that frat house? I mean they pretty much declared that there wasn’t going to be any more Black events on any campus facility.” And they were like, “Oh, we’re not Black, we’re not Black.” And I said, “Okay, I’m telling you that’s what it is.” And they were like, “Oh, it can’t be that.” “Oh, yes it is.” And then finally when they realized that they were included in with the rest of us who are Black, then they finally came to us for help. And we were able to negotiate facilities for them and so the Caribbean Sun Splash was able to go on. And after that we were at full acceptance from CaribSA after that. And then also we had the White Student Union fiasco. That was crazy. We had some White students create a White Student Union on account of the Black Student Union. And we had their president and their advisor straight up say that if—we said that you guys are obviously connected to the Klan and they said, “No, no, no, no, no we are not connected to the Klan.” They said, “As a matter of fact, if you prove that we are connected to the Klan, then we will shut down.” And so the short story is, through surveillance—we had a state-wide network, really—and one of our operatives at the University of Central Florida in Orlando actually tipped us off.

And we got a copy of a document that proved without a shadow of doubt that they were connected to the KKK. So I told the president, I said, “You got forty-





eight hours to shut down or I’m sending this document to the newspaper.” And he thought I was bluffing so we sent the document to the paper and they just got exposed to being a direct arm in the KKK and they shut them up—and well I mean the advisor quit after that and that was the end of the White Student Union.

	D:	Oh, wow. Do you remember what year that was?



	P:	Ah, man I don’t remember—I mean they were on campus for a while. They were on Oprah.

	D:	Oh, okay.



	P:	I mean, her show. I couldn’t believe it. Oprah had these clowns. Anyway, but that was going on all over the country. There was still that kind of Reagan Era fog and all this anti-affirmative action, White male is the victim, all this foolishness. And of course the Klan in Florida is just notorious. We had a Klan—there was a big, one of the biggest, neo-Nazi White supremacist camps in the country was just outside of Gainesville. And they had all kinds of nuts out there with, you know, weapons and tactics training. I mean before, and yeah they can operate on their own but after 9/11 I doubt that anything like that can exist. But yeah, they marched on— they had a couple marches with swastikas, and the whole nine yards. I mean it was crazy. We tried to shut it down but they got a permit. But the White Student Union, they were all mixed up with them and for a while the White Student Union actually had a Vietnamese statistician. And I tried to talk to this guy, alright. He was being used because he was good at math. And he would do all these calculations with the average SAT scores of Black students and, you know, it was just garbage. But I finally convinced him to look up what the Klan did to the





Vietnamese fisherman in Texas. And after he looked that up he was gone, he quit. He saw that obviously if these people were down with anything to have to do with White supremacy then they weren’t his friend. So, you know, he was gone.

And we had kind of a—not adversarial with the Black Greek organizations. They didn’t really embrace us at first. But after a while, they all kind of came around. It took a while. Well around the same time that there was that moratorium on black events, Black Student Union created the Florida Statewide Step Show.

D:   Oh, okay. FSSS, yeah.



	P:	But the campus police at the time, because of the Black event, refused to provide security. So we provided security for the Statewide Step Show. And then, you know, soon we provided security for all of the Black Union events. And we almost got shot at one night because there was a drug incident and that’s a long story and anyway. You know there were issues, some UF students decided they were dealing dope and of course they were dealing dope in one of the local drug dealer’s territory and then they called us to come help them out. And they didn’t tell us that, they didn’t tell us. We didn’t learn that until afterwards, after we heard about the shooting. And we were like, “Oh, now you guys call us, to say that between you guys and these drug dealers. See you later.” And then—yeah so we provided security for the Student Union and what was crazy. At one point during the step show, they had about forty or fifty thousand dollars cash with no place to put it. So they called us and so now we’re riding like fifty grand in our cars trying to hope that nobody saw us slide this money out. I said, “Didn’t you guys have an





arrangement with the bank to do a deposit?” “Oh no we are way too young.” You know, they had no idea how to do that.

	D:	Right.



	P:	And somebody sneaked in with a gun during the show. It was crazy. I mean it was just—so yeah, for a while we provided security for the Greek parties, which was interesting to say the very least. Because the police, like I said, the regular police for a while refused to do anything for any—

	D:	Any Black organizations?



	P:	Any Black organization. No Greek, White, whatever, you know. Any Black Greek, Greek, Black, or whatever. You know and so that could be, like I said, a fairly interesting situation. I mean it just goes on and on and on. I mean it’s just one thing after the other—I’m trying to think. We brought Winnie Mandela in. That was crazy.

	D:	Oh, okay. She gave a speech?



	P:	Yeah, she was a speaker. We brought in Winnie Mandela, and this was at like the height of—

	D:	Apartheid.



	P:	South African liberation. Because I think it was in [19]94. This was before that so, yeah it was at the height, where we were just trying to get Mandela released. You know and so Winnie had a fundraising tour. So we negotiated bringing her to UF. At first, the UF brand didn’t believe us. They thought, “These guys aren’t getting Winnie Mandela.” And then as they finally saw that we were really bringing Winnie Mandela to Gainesville—because we were wanting to do it just in





Gainesville, forget about UF. Then they tried to co-opt it. They made the UF brand try to take it over. And so the ANC was like, “Look, we wanted our brothers and sisters to be accredited and we are not going to have her be received by a White contingency.” And so there was a standoff. I mean because you have UF saying there’s all this policy, blah, blah, blah. You know, we can’t have. And they said, “We are not going to see White faces when Winnie Mandela shows up.” And so we told them, we said, “Look, either you roll with us or you’re not coming.” And by then they had advertised and, you know, made this big toot that Winnie Mandela was coming to UF, blah, blah, blah. So they couldn’t back down but they knew that we would pull the plug on the whole thing unless our people and local Black Panthers, us, provided security, and not UF. And they had to get out of the way, you know. And so she came and it was great, it was spectacular. Just stand aside and just let us shoot. I think she was at—I don’t remember where, I think it was at the O’Connell Center. Yeah, it was. It was at the O-Dome. And the White Student Union was around then and they protested. They walked in with bicycle tires around their neck, you know, they said that that necklace thing that it’s just any idiocy, but other than that it went down just fine. And we had restrained some of our members from physically removing those guys from the facility. We just said, “Just let them do what they are going to do.” But yeah, so we actually brought Winnie Mandela in and we went all over the state. I mean, we went all over the state from Jacksonville to Tampa to UCF. We got called out to Dixie County, Florida. There was some drama—I can’t remember exactly what happened out there. It was some kind of racist incident and we took about eight





or nine brothers out there to try to squelch that. You all still had a—we did a twenty year commemoration of the founding of the Black Student Union so we also brought Willie Jackson and Jackson’s wife. They were both—his sons actually played for UF but I can’t remember their names. Two of his sons played for UF, maybe three of them played for UF. But he was one of the first Black athletes at UF. And so we actually brought back the students who founded the African American Cultural Center, that’s what it was. We were able to track down maybe eight of them and brought them back for a panel. And I can’t remember- I think the African American Cultural Center was founded in 1970 or [19]71 and we had this in [19]90 or [19]91. I don’t know the years are running together. So, yeah we did that. And that was great to bring that history back. And then we had the whole Black Awareness Movement. And that was where once again, the student government tried to zero-fund Black History Month. And so we were lobbying to make—well around that same time we had a slate that tried to run for the presidency of student government to take over the whole thing. We would have done it because the voter turnout for student elections at UF is so low—I think like two percent of students were voting at that time. So any number of Black students who voted a block, we could have won it. But the Black Greek organizations broke away at the last minute. And so the students lost the election. And so the Whites tried to take advantage of the situation, or really out of retaliation, tried to zero-fund Black History Month. And then at some point the student union was taken over and the demands were that Black History Month be funded in the perpetuity. We had to institutionalize as part of the SGA Fund like





several other things that it’s funded every year. And so we wanted Black History Month to be amongst those things. And so we, you know, our demands were met, Black History Month became institutionalized. So there was no more begging every year for money after that. But it was very controversial I guess.

There was a bully takeover, and you know we were accused of assault, theft, vandalism, and none of that took place. Kidnapping. None of that took place. And they put us on trial to try to kick us out of the school. We were completely exonerated. I mean it was a circus. They didn’t have anything on us other than why people would help us. I think that was in 1992, Fall.

	D:	Oh, okay the Fall of [19]92. Yeah, I heard a little bit about it. I know they said you all put pictures. I was talking with Marna Weston earlier about some of the things that happened around that time period and he had mentioned that you guys had put, I guess that they had made pictures of him in some derogatory manner with it said, “Wanted to find dead,” or intoxicated or something like that. And they just had this campaign to try to denigrate African Americans that were running for these positions.

	P:	Oh yeah. I think Marna was running for Treasurer? I think he ended up being the Treasurer. They found a way to circumnavigate the authority, it was crazy. I mean it was just crazy. I mean they just would not—they didn’t want to relinquish any power our end. And UF, the SGA controlled, I think at that time around six million dollars. In the hands of eighteen to twenty-four year olds. You know, so you can only imagine.

	D:	Yeah. I heard there was an incident with SNAP as well.





	P:	With who?



	D:	SNAP, I guess the bus service around campus that takes students and picks them up late at night and drops them off if you need a ride home or—

	P:	Now that I don’t really remember. Maybe that might have been after I was gone but I don’t remember anything with buses. I know that for a while after the skinhead attacks we did have our own, you know we said, “Don’t dial 911, dial

99.” And you know if any young lady needed to be escorted at night across campus or from the library we were doing that for a while, while the skinhead attacks were in full force. Yeah I don’t remember anything—maybe Dr. Imani would remember that—I don’t remember anything about the buses. It might have happened.

	D:	Okay, I was wondering though, how was it for you going through your program, your academic program?

	P:	Oh, I mean that was completely separate. I mean I was able to separate everything. I mean really it’s interesting though. A lot of the faculty were pretty much oblivious to what students were doing. You know it’s like two different worlds.

	D:	[Laughter] Yeah.



	P:	Now that I am a faculty member that a lot of the stuff that the students are involved with, I don’t know what they are doing. You know? I look at when they really make big moves. I mean just, you know, and like I said, a lot of the stuff that we did, we used covert tactics so if something went down people wouldn’t even know who did it, what happened. Like when we took down the White





Student Union, nobody really knew what had happened. There was no big show. They just disappeared. I know why they disappeared. Nobody to this day knows who really took over the student union. That covert tactic, you know. Like I said, that’s why there was no conviction. Nobody could prove who was behind it.

	D:	Right, right.



	P:	Because nobody saw us take over the building. We used guerilla tactics. We were invisible. So it was a very well-planned operation.

	D:	Yeah. Did you all have some type of organization that you all tried to model yourselves after? Or that you gained inspiration from?

	P:	Well I mean obviously the Black Panthers, you know, SNCC, and the ideology of Malcolm X, King. I listened to a lot and read a lot of stuff. I mean Huey Newton, I listened to a lot of speeches, all kinds of African leaders, Haile Selassie. Any independent pro-Black leader. Or, like I’ve read a lot of [inaudible 38:24] book.

Kwame Nkruma, a lot of his philosophy. I have a book of the Mau Mau’s military tactics. Nelson Mandela’s books, anybody like that. Anybody with relations to black people that none of us knew about.

	D:	And would you say that began before you came to UF or did it really kick off when you got here?

	P:	No I was—like I said, Dr. Imani and I arrived at the same time. And he was the founder and I joined and others joined later.

	D:	But I mean your political consciousness. Did your political consciousness really develop here or was it something that had been carried over from undergrad and from even growing up?





	P:	I was always conscious. Always. I grew up in a house where I was taught to be conscious of White supremacy from day one. So I mean I had no confusion over who to trust and who not to trust. And I grew up on that, so I knew that eventually I wasn’t going to spend my career at some place like UF or FSU or UGA or the University of Tennessee. I taught at Indiana University. You know, Vanderbilt University, Oberlin College. I’ve done my time, but I knew at the end of the day I was going to be at a Black college which is where I am and where I’ve been for twelve years now. I’m not going anywhere and if I go somewhere it will be to another Black college. But yeah, that’s always been my mission. I don’t have anything against people. We need people everywhere. We need people at Harvard, Yale, MIT, we need people everywhere. Just, I am where I am and there are people at Vanderbilt. They should be there. We should have Black faculty researchers everywhere. Everywhere that you fit in, wherever you fit in, as long as you remain conscious of the mission. Like don’t start building enemies, building up the enemies, but other than that. I didn’t always have that stance. I used to think that all of us should be at Black colleges. But I softened up on that after a while. That is not realistic, you know.

	D:	Oh okay. Yeah, I’m trying to get back to one soon, too. [Laughter]



	P:	Yeah it’s not easy. I mean I got very lucky to be here. Especially now with the economy being what it is, the thing is a lot of our faculty is retiring. Retiring is happening in waves. That whole group that got their PhDs in the [19]60s and [19]70s are starting to retire now. So I think that they are in fact fifteen Black colleges looking for presidents right now.





	D:	Oh, wow.



	P:	So we’ve got president, administration, just from the demographic people are aging out. You know, that’s just how it is. So there is some opportunity. Definitely.

	D:	Yeah, definitely. So did FAMU have any involvement in the activities that you all were doing here, or?

	P:	No we really didn’t—I mean a lot of, well not really. We never really went to FAMU. Like, no we never did. And really, they weren’t—now that I am at a Black college there is a difference to the dynamic that they have at a Black college and UF. You know it’s not really—it’s a totally different. Like, for example, there was a period of time when two of the fraternities actually went to war with one another like gangs. Shooting at each other and everything. They were in Jet magazine.

They got into a fight right there in the middle of that big courtyard by Turlington Hall right in the middle of the day. It was crazy and these guys were just all fucked up and getting ready to fight right out in the middle of the day. And so myself, Imani, and a couple other of the older brothers were trying to break them up. We said, “This is embarrassing.” I mean White folks—it was like gladiators. The next thing you saw all these cops with riot gear show up. And so I said to one of the brothers, I said, “See all those guys in those riot helmets?” I said, “Go ahead and fight. You are going to start the fight but guess who is going to finish it.” And that’s when they finally decided they were not fighting. And we had another interesting occurrence out there. We used to have a Malcolm X revolutionary observance every year. And we used to start right out there—what is it, Turlington Plaza? Whatever they call it. And so we started off out there, it





was a bunch of us just one after another giving speeches in commemoration of Malcolm. And so one day we were out there—and there must have been, there were all kinds of police. I mean they were undercover, plainclothes, cops—and we were like, “What in the world is going on?” Well it turned out that the night before somebody had broken into one of the, I guess, the military munitions depot. Somewhere, I think it was in Micanopy. And they had stolen a large cache of explosives and C-4 and whatever else. And they thought that we had done it. So they were all the way over there posted and I was like, “What? Are you guys serious? You guys seriously though that we were going to blow up the campus?” I’ve never seen that many cops before. And then finally the police came and took our podium and microphone and tried to shut us down. And we said, “This is the free speech zone on campus.” Oh and then we also got involved in a protest against Desert Storm, or whatever, the first Iraq war. We went over there and kicked Saddam Hussein out of Kuwait. And so um, yeah we got involved with that. We had a big protest against Columbus Day, I think it was. Yeah, because there was this big celebration. 1492 to 1992, five hundred years after Columbus. And so we did some counter protests against Columbus and we got one of the funeral homes to lend us a coffin. And so the coffin symbolized all of the dead Native Americans and Africans that were victims of Columbus and we marched across the campus. Yeah it was just so much to happen. People wouldn’t believe the past. There’s a lot of stuff I’m leaving out I know. Just because there was always something, it’s always something. Like I said, we had South Africa’s divestment going on, you still had Reagan-era fall. Rodney King happened I don’t





remember, in [19]91 or [19]92. Somewhere in there. I remember when that happened we were out, of course subsequently there were the LA riots and all of that. You know and then of course that had race relations nationwide on edge.

And that was before O.J. definitely. I remember where I was when we were in the



O.J. verdict. I was not in Gainesville.



	D:	Oh yeah? Where were you for that one?



	P:	It happened. That was another one. But yeah, so a lot of stuff went on and I still keep in touch with a lot of the members.

	D:	Okay and are they at other universities too or did they take different career routes?

	P:	Different career paths, you know, you name it, and they’re doing it. [Inaudible 47:17] sets it all together. One of our members actually is from Sanford, Florida where that Trayvon Martin case took place. I think about her. I wonder if she’s still there or if she moved on, I don’t know. Ask Dr. Imani because he can keep in touch better than I’ve been able to. So we had a reunion at one point. Maybe—I don’t remember the year, it’s been a while—that was probably, I don’t even remember, 1999 or something. A bunch of us came back to Gainesville. I think they were honoring, I don’t know. We all came back, maybe about eight of us came back and caught up. But like I said that was years and years ago. And one time I think a bunch of us hooked up in Atlanta, just kind of impromptu. But the main person I usually see is Imani. And we actually do research together. I’ve invited him—we’ve done research papers together.





	D:	Oh, okay. And how did the Project 99 end up disbanding? Was it more of a thing you all just graduated so it just kind of dissipated?

	P:	You know we all graduated and left. I mean everybody graduated pretty much.



So yeah you know, we weren’t like an official campus organization by any stretch. They weren’t going to have us on campus officially. We weren’t going to be official. But yeah, we all graduated and moved on.

	D:	Oh, okay. Well, I think I hit your one-hour mark or close to it. [Laughter] P:	Yeah that’s fine. I was just reminiscing on some of the old times.

	D:	Yeah definitely. Yeah, it’s needed because there are a lot of new graduate students that come in and we don’t know a lot of the history of the University of Florida, UF, and I know—

	P:	Yeah, they did a book a few years ago. Maybe about five years ago there was a book published by the university, Black Students at UF whatever, whatever. I have a copy of it but we are not mentioned in there at all.

	D:	Yeah I was reading through it and there was no mention of that, there is no mention of a lot of incidents that took place on campus.

	P:	Yeah they just completely skipped over us. I’m sure that, I can see why. They didn’t want to bring that up. But really, I mean, we dominated. I mean everyone around that time knows that we dominated the conversation at that time without a doubt, as far as being active. We were just going all over the state. I mean from Jacksonville—well, we didn’t really get down to Miami. But I mean, Tampa, Orlando, I mean we got called down there, West Florida, North Florida, Ocala. I mean we were all over the place. So we weren’t just in Gainesville.





	D:	Right. So they had you all doing—they would all call you in if they had a situation that happened? They would call?

	P:	Yeah, I mean it was—one time we had a guy, I can’t remember exactly why this guy called us from the University of Central Florida. So we showed up down there with like eight brothers and scared the living daylights out of them down there. We roll up in fatigues and berets, you know, marching in formation. And we walked right through the middle of campus and the whole place just stopped. I mean it just scared the living daylights, it was crazy. It was just crazy.

	D:	Yeah, I remember you mentioning there was a woman in the organization as well. Were there other women in the organization and did they take on similar roles?

	P:	Yes, we had several sisters that were in the organization. Yeah, we had several. I mean maybe—obviously not as many as the males. But yeah, we had several sisters.

	D:	Oh, okay. Did they wear the fatigues and everything as well? Or did they have different?—

	P:	Yeah, yeah, they were down. I mean you had to be all the way down if you wanted to be part of us.

	D:	Oh, okay.



	P:	But yeah, they partook and everything. They partook in everything. Yeah we had women in the organization. So like I said, eventually we had actually found some Greek families. They finally came around. Now they didn’t join, but they decided to come around some.





	D:	Help out here and there? P:	Hmm?

	D:	They helped out here and there?



	P:	Yeah they participated in some of the things that we did. You know, after a while not a first. At first it was, like a said, kind of adversarial. It was really interesting but after a while it depends, like I said, when the police brutality occurred or when the skinheads were attacking sisters, when it came to be that we were like, “Oh, okay we have to drop all of our differences now and just deal with this situation as it is.” Then people kind of stopped being petty and it was just getting too real to do all this Greek non-Greek foolishness. We got women being attacked. Our sisters being attacked. We have to drop this foolishness. But yeah, I mean it was like I said, it would go back and forth. It would go back and forth.

	D:	Did you all get support from Black faculty as well or were they oblivious to a lot of what was going on?

	P:	Several Black administrators and faculty and directors of the Black Cultural Center were very supportive. Yes.

	D:	Oh, okay.



	P:	Not openly. Maybe Dr. Simmons, who was the director of the Black Cultural Center, he was supportive openly. But a lot of other people, they couldn’t risk their jobs openly supporting such a militant organization. But we got support. We got a lot of support from faculty and staff. Like I said, people couldn’t openly support us as a faculty member. Because the university really feared what we were about. They thought that we were violent potentially. But, yeah we got a lot





of support from faculty. The community was a hundred percent behind us. A hundred percent, because we did a lot of things for the community. We did African American male rites of passage. We did a lot of work with a lot of the community centers typically working with young, Black males. You know we very much tried to carry and town-down the vibe. And so people knew us in the community. Churches. Yeah, and so like for us to not be mentioned at all in that book was just like—I mean I didn’t expect an mention, I would have been surprised if we were mentioned. I’d be like, “What? They mentioned us?”

	D:	Yeah, did you all get involved in local politics at all in terms of trying to help African American run for local offices?

	P:	Yeah, we did. I think his guy, Rodney Long.



	D:	Yeah I met Mr. Rodney Long a while ago, actually last semester.



	P:	Yeah, he ran for mayor. We were involved with his campaign on some levels.



Yeah, we definitely were involved in some level of local politics. Some of us actually ran, I had no desire to run for office. But we definitely were active in supporting candidates and doing things for local politicians when, where we were necessary. So yeah, definitely. We definitely were. So yeah, like I said, there is a lot of stuff that I am proud of and if you talk to Dr. Imani and some of the other guys, they can remember more things than I can. Like I said, it’s been a while and while things are happening you don’t write them down. Yeah I didn’t write anything. I mean I have some things, I wrote for a lot of newspapers. I wrote for the Iguana, I wrote for the Popular Review, I wrote for some other paper there in Gainesville, the pre-weekly.





	D:	Oh, okay the Gainesville Sun or Alligator?



	P:	Yeah the Iguana, I wrote a lot of editorials to the Alligator, or the Gator, whatever the newspaper is called.

	D:	Yeah, the Alligator.



	P:	Yeah I wrote a lot of hot, bad pieces. Probably the most infamous case with me was, what happens after takeover, the student government tries to renege on the promise to institutionalize Black History Month as part of the budget, which we owed them. So it was really weird, so I walked into the STA meeting where they were getting ready to vote on whether or not to do it or not. There were all these rumblings that they were going to try to renege on their promise and I went in there with a baseball bat and I made like a one-minute speech. I had fatigues, I had a bat. I didn’t think anything of it, I just walked out of there no big deal. The next day I’m on the front page of the Alligator with the tee and the bat and the headline, in big, bold letters was, “Somebody Has to Bleed.” And it was the writers of the Alligator took part of what I said that night and spliced it with an interview I did within the week before. And what happened was the week before, I had been getting a lot of threatening phone calls. And so the Alligator reporter asked me about what was going on and it was very, very tumultuous after that takeover of the building. I was on trial and I was in the paper a lot because of the trial. And so my number was in the book, I mean I was in the white pages. My number was right there in the book, so I was getting all these crazy calls. And so I said to the Alligator reporter, I said, “Look, I don’t care if you call me. You all know where I live. I live right here. You want to do something? Let’s do





something.” And so they put that in the story with my speech, which wasn’t violent at all. With the fatigues and the bat so people thought that I was just saying that if anybody on the entire campus wants to come and see me, we can do this. You know, we can rock the boat.

	D:	[Laughter] Right.



	P:	And I was speaking clearly to whoever the fools were who were calling me. But you didn’t know that if you read the story is aw man, all hell broke loose after that. I had to have our own security people escort me everywhere for like two or three weeks after that. But I was getting threats I mean all kinds: clans, skinheads. It was crazy.

	D:	Did that extend beyond phone calls or did it mostly stay to phone calls and letters?

	P:	Actually I had skinheads posted up at places I would frequent. And, you know, I rode with like four guys most of the time so they didn’t try anything. So yeah, it was crazy. That was crazy, crazy.

	D:	Wow. Did you ever think about leaving UF? Leaving Gainesville? P:	During that time?

	D:	Well during the time that you were working on your PhD at all.



	P:	Yeah, I wasn’t going anywhere. At one point I wasn’t really worried about anybody doing anything. I’m from Baltimore. I mean, hell I’m from a place much more dangerous than Gainesville.

	D:	[Laugher] That’s true, that’s true.





	P:	Nothing they had could phase me. You know, so whatever. I mean I just figured if you’re going to call, you’re probably not going to do anything. If it’s serious you’re not going to call me, you’re just going to do something. You know, you’re just going to put a cap in me and keep going. You’re not going to call me up first, so I wasn’t worried about it. I wasn’t worried about those clowns. I really wasn’t. I’ve dealt with a lot worse people. But yeah, like I said, there was a lot of stuff that went on and I’m leaving a lot of stuff out. So it was back then.

	D:	Wow, well thanks again for the interview. I am going to try and get in contact with Dr. Imani and then try to get in contact with you again and see if maybe we can—

	P:	Yeah, if you need a follow up. Yeah, no problem.



	D:	Oh, okay. Cool, cool. Alright then we will probably send you a form soon so you can sign off just so we can authorize these interviews and make sure that it conforms to university standard or whatever we have to do to get your permission.

	P:	Oh yeah I definitely understand that. [Laughter]



	D:	IRB’s and so forth, yeah. [Laughter] Okay, cool. Well, thanks again. P:	All right, you’re welcome.

	D:	Did you have any questions for me? P:	No I’m good. Yeah I just appreciate it.

	D:	Okay, and no, no I thank you. Yeah we have more information and more stuff to talk about at the next BGSO meeting, so. [Laughter]

	P:	Okay.



	D:	Cool. Alright well have a good day and have a good weekend.





	P:	Alright you too.



	D:	All those things. Alright I’ll talk to you soon. P:	Okay, alright. Bye.

	D:	Alright, bye bye. [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Liz Gray, September 23, 2013 Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, March 22, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 22, 2019