AAHP 723; Lafortune; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 723 Witchell Lafortune 7-24-2019 Interviewed by Mya Leland on July 24, 2019 28 Pages

Abstract:

Keywords: [African American History; Haitian immigrants; University of Florida; education]



AAHP 723

Interviewee: Witchell Lafortune Interviewer: Mya Leland

Date: July 24, 2019





	ML:	Okay, hello today is, July 24th, 2019. We are currently in Gainesville, Florida I am interviewing today Mr. Witchell Lafortune a student at the University of Florida. He is going to share with me some of his personal experiences at the University of Florida, his experiences in stories told to him by his parents and grandparents about his hometown in Haiti and the comparisons of the truth and reconciliation movements to those in Haiti and here in the U.S., specifically here in Gainesville, Florida. So today we’ll start by asking your full name, would you please state your full name?

	WL:	Yes, my name is Witchell Lafortune.



	ML:	Okay, would you tell us where you were born?



WL:  I was born in the small island of Haiti, next to the Dominican Republic. ML:  Okay, so tell me a little bit about your culture and some of your customs.

WL: As a Caribbean highland, Haiti especially, we have a strong background especially in slavery. We used to be a French colonized state, we were actually the first to gain our independence in the Pacific.

ML:  Okay, so trying to get to know a little more about you, tell me about your early family. What were the names of your parents and if you have any sisters and brothers would you please state their names as well?

WL:  Yes, at the moment it’s me and I have four siblings with my mom and dad. My mom is Marie Lafortune, my dad Michael Lafortune and by order of descending I am the oldest,





Witchell Lafortune. Following me is my sister Dephanie Lafortune, then Rebeccas Lafortune, Benjamin Lafortune, and the Grace Lafortune.

	ML:	How old were you when you moved to the U.S.?



	WL:	At the time I was nine years old when I made the transition. ML:	What city did your family move to?

	WL:	When we moved to Miami, Florida that was our first place we actually settled down in the United States. Although as you’ll grow to see, we moved several places that following then.

	ML:	So name some of those places that you all moved to following moving to Miami.



	WL:	Following moving to Miami we moved to different— I feel like, different locations in Miami for the first five years. Then we moved up to Alabama for two years and then back to Deerfield. So it wasn’t a full motion, besides Alabama, it was pretty much just resettling at different locations in the same area.

	ML:	Okay so how many years did you live in Alabama? WL:	Two years.

	ML:	What was the culture there? Was it different from Miami or anything you experienced in Haiti?

	WL:	Yes, yea, the culture in Alabama was definitely different. The people were different, I guess you can say that of course, for me it was a true culture shock because I had lived in Miami for five years previous to the move so I was surrounded by people like and

like-minded people like me. And people who had gone through the same experiences





as me, but upon the move to Alabama, that was completely changed. For a long time I felt a little alienated just because I was unable to connect to people on the level I had been able to previously.

ML:  Okay and when you talk about people being different, I know you talked about people being like-minded as you, but was there anything more specific that made them more different than what you’re used to?

	WL:	Yes, besides the mindset I would say it was also, not necessarily traditions, but the tendencies of people at the time. Because. I’m gonna try to put this very lightly, but I felt like some people were either not as open-minded or as encouraging, not encouraging, but now as open-armed as they should be. People were quick to judge, quick to go off their prejudices.

	ML:	What specific area of Alabama did you all move to? WL:	It was, I believe, Huntsville, Alabama.

	ML:	So what made your family move to Alabama?



	WL:	It was a cocktail of different reasons. High among the list was financial reasons and the family at the same time was just in the need for a fresh start. So among the places to go, Alabama was on the list and it ended up being the one they chose.

	ML:	Okay, kind of backtracking a little bit, what made them choose Miami?



	WL:	Miami because it was the hub of— Florida in general was the hub of Haitians coming in and Miami was like the central of Florida for the Haitian community, I feel. And we had a lot of friends there so it was a place where you can go where, especially being new to





this country, you wouldn’t necessarily feel alone. You would automatically be part of a community.

	ML:	So, going back to your move here, it was your mom, your dad, you and your siblings, any grandparents come with you?

	WL:	No not at the moment, that wouldn’t happen for a couple years.



	ML:	So what made your grandparents, when they did move, make them move here with you all?

	WL:	Yes, my grandma made the transition out of necessity for the most part. Because it got to a position where my mom, and I don’t remember correctly, she was either trying to pursue her college education or was just trying to work more. My dad has always been working so it got the position where my mom had a new kid and she needed to work more to make more money because it was more mouths to feed and all that. So paying for daycare was not an option because at the rate of income it wouldn’t necessarily be beneficial at all. So I guess having my grandpa here, I mean having my grandma here to help take care of the kids whenever she was around was the best decision they could’ve made at the time.

	ML:	And what was your grandma’s name?



	WL:	My grandma, I call her—my grandma’s name was Meselite [inaudible 7:14]



	ML:	So you talked about why your grandma came here, so why did your parents decide to move to the U.S.?





	WL:	Ultimately, it was the need for opportunity. In Haiti, they had people come here previously and they heard great things. Like, you know, about the American dream, great opportunities. A whole lot going on. You know what I mean? It was just that mindset and when you’re in a position where you have so little and you hear those things, you wanna reach out and see if you can get a little taste for yourself.

	ML:	So, tell me a little about what your mom and your dad does for a living here in the U.S. and then back home in Haiti?

	WL:	Yes, currently my mom is working whatever job she can find at the moment and my dad for the most part is working security but pretty much the same thing. So whatever job, the best opportunity they can get. Back home my dad used to be a preacher and my mom used to be a caretaker for elderlies.

	ML:	I know here a lot of people talk about being a preacher’s kid and some of the lifestyle changes that happens with that, so how was that for you?

	WL:	For me it was, I feel like for the most part it was exactly what you hear. I was really, really held to high expectations. I was expected to have a level of restraint for certain things and I was supposed to be the nice kid that was always helping put and for the most part I feel like that is me as a person, just because I was grown up that way, but I don’t know.

	ML:	You talked about growing up and kind of expecting you to have this community involvement, so coming here were you involved in community? Were you active in church, sports, clubs, anything like that?





	WL:	Yes, yes, I remember being very active for the most part. I know classes take a lot of time and I dedicate a lot of time to keeping my grades up, but I try to go out of my way to go to church on Sundays. Of course that’s a necessity. I always has been. I was raised that was and I’ve continued in that and going further and staying after church, helping out, just participating in different activities. I feel like it stopped being a chore a long time ago. Like I said, just because I was raised that way it feels more of a responsibility, but not in a node way, just a responsibility.

	ML:	So I want to ask, how was church here in the U.S. different from the traditions of church back home in Haiti?

	WL:	I feel like back home in Deerfield is really close to Haiti just because I went to a Haitian church so. Haitians are very traditional so in that sense church in Haiti and church in Deerfield were very similar because they were made of Haitians and it doesn’t matter where the Haitian community is, that tradition stays there. But when I did move to Gainesville, there was an immediate lack of Haitians so there isn’t a Haitian church in Gainesville and I feel like the dynamic of worship is different.

	ML:	Do you mind elaborating just a little on what you mean by the worship being a little different?

	WL:	Back home the worship was really upbeat. People would be on their feet pretty much the whole time. People would be screaming, like wild, just yelling and saying hallelujah and amen. Like during whenever, whoever was leading the service and no one would turn shoulder, no one would—because that was the norm. And in Gainesville it’s not





necessarily that way and that’s what I mean when I say the dynamic of the church, the church service being different. Just the way people worship.

	ML:	And what was you church home back in Miami, and then your church home back in Haiti.

	WL:	The church back in Haiti was, I know the name First Baptist Church of—I don’t remember the ending just because it’s been a while. And then back in Deerfield it’s the United Church of God.

	ML:	Which church do you go to here in Gainesville?



	WL:	I’m currently attending the University City Church of Christ.



	ML:	So you talked about here in Gainesville there aren’t really churches or the community of Haitian people aren’t really as widespread as it was in Miami or back home, does it make you feel sort of like an outcast here in Gainesville or like you’re not well represented?

	WL:	Not necessarily just because I feel like my community encompasses more than the Haitian community. I feel like a better representation of my community would be the African American community, and so in that way I wouldn’t necessarily feel like an outcast. Although there are shortcomings in that area also.

	ML:	Do you mind elaborating on what you mean by there being some shortcomings in that area?

	WL:	As you know, in the University of Florida, the African American community is not that prominent.





ML:  So getting on school, I want to backtrack to early childhood school in Haiti. So tell me a little bit about your early childhood education and then transitioning into middle school, or I believe they call it junior high and then high school to college.

	WL:	I don’t remember much of school back in Haiti but I guess I remember little flashes. But it was really just typical recess type things. So I really didn’t get much in that deep in schooling because I felt, I left when I was nine. When I really started my schooling was when I moved here to Miami and that’s when the real of the situation hit me. Because at the moment I hadn’t spoken a word of English, I came completely with nothing, and not only that I was tossed in a classroom where I was expected to perform. But luckily for me, I wasn’t the only one. So I was surrounded by people that were growing and heading the same direction as me and I feel like in any other community it would’ve been harder for me to make as much progress as I did in the time I did if I weren’t surrounded by those people. That’s why I feel like having a support system is really important whenever you’re trying to enhance and progress yourself into something.

	ML:	And so [clears throat] excuse me, how many years did it take you to learn English if you don’t mind me asking?

	WL:	If I’m remembering this correctly, five years. After five years on my sixth year I was taking honors English classes.

	ML:	So being surrounded by people that were, like you said earlier, like-minded and you talked about a support system, how did that assist your transition going from grade to grade and balancing life as well?





	WL:	Yes with the support system, the support system was more than just the students, it was the teachers also because they were used to teaching students who’s English was their second language. So they had the experience and they knew how to sculpt and I feel like the patience was there and that was really the important thing because I know the first year I really struggled and then I started to pick up pace and then really evolve. But the first year was really a struggle for me just because, I don’t know, being so young I guess. I kind of had some restraint or hesitation or some fear that made me hold back so I guess I didn’t really learn as quickly as I could have. But once I let that go and once I got comfortable in the position I was in, I really started to progress in the environment I was in really fueled and gave me what I needed to push forward.

	ML:	So progressing with your topic of support, how was education implemented in your household, how was the support from your family, your parents, grandparents, how did that possibly aid in your educational development?

	WL:	Education was really big in my family, I remember at one point in dad my dad saying, I think I got a C in something, first C in a while, my dad saying, “You can do better than this, that’s why you’re here.” And like over the years, especially in elementary it was rooted in me that my purpose was to like succeed intellectually and that’s expected of me I dedicated more and more time to make sure I was up to par in where I needed to be. Once I saw a little taste of progress, a little taste of accomplishment, I personally wanted more and it kind of broke off from oh my parents wanted me to get A’s to I wanted to see myself so good. Like it got the point where I wanted to personally get A’s myself, not necessarily, it wasn’t that I wanted to succeed, I wanted to do well. I know my parents wanted to see the A, but I’m like as long as I did well in the class and I got





an A or a B I felt accomplished and that was the main thing. Just as long as I felt accomplished that was good.

	ML:	Talking about success, what is your definition of success?



	WL:	Success for me I would say, it’s not necessarily, it’s growth and it’s essence. Success is continuous growth, that’s the simplest way I could put it. Because there’s so many ways you can go about, you can go with defining success and I feel like in all its forms it has to contain some form of growth.

	ML:	So how was education or the importance of education in Haiti different from the importance of education here in the U.S.?

	WL:	In Haiti education was important but not important in the way where it was a necessity. Just because many people lacked it. It was important in the where it was a privilege so, where having education was a privilege in Haiti. So it was still valued in important, but it wasn’t to the point where if you didn’t have it, you were necessarily dubbed less. Just because so many people lacked it. But at the same time, I know this is going to contradict what I just said, but if you did have the education you were looked at as more. You know, above the average.

	ML:	And then here in the U.S.?



	WL:	In the U.S. I don’t know I guess over the years of middle school I grew to see that many people were taking education for granted. At least specific parts of growing up. I saw different individuals taking education for granted and that really puzzled me in my early growing up just because it was what was rooted in my mentality at the time.





	ML:	So I’m going to backtrack a little bit, so tell me a little bit about your community in Miami.



	WL:	Yes, so my community in Miami was made up of church, family, teachers and friends at school for the most part. So it was really well-balanced in the way where I got support from all the right people that I needed and at the same time I got a little shove also from all the right people. Because you know growing up there’s always going to be those friction moments where either things go wrong or there’s an argument at school or whatever it is. I feel like at the end of the day, looking back at it all it worked out.

	ML:	If you can name one or two people within your life, whether it’s your parents, grandparents, teachers, peers, who would you say shaped your life and mindset?

	WL:	I would definitely say my parents did. Both my mom and dad, this might sound a little typical, but my mom really rooted in me taking opportunities, don’t be scared, don’t hold back, when you know you can take a step forward. Take a risk. As long as it’s an assessed risk, it’s worth taking. And my dad really taught me discipline, I guess you can say, just to think before you act. Do everything in a structured manner, that way you can contemplate the consequences beforehand.

	ML:	That’s really powerful. So clearly your parents instilled in you core values of integrity, discipline, strength, purpose, are there any other core values that were implemented in your household, within your life growing up that stands out to you? Or that you continue to stand on that I haven’t mentioned?

	WL:	Definitely faith, hard work, perseverance and positivity.



	ML:	Is there one that if you had to tell the world or someone about, that it would automatically come to your mind, what would it be and why?





	WL:	Faith, but I feel like that’s pretty straight forward. There’s perseverance, that’s next. Just because, I don’t know after going through a lot my childhood was a growing process.

There were many obstacles, many things going on. Things weren’t always good and like seeing a bad situation and looking it in the face and saying I’m not gonna let you ruin my day or I’m not going to let you stop my progress forward or my attempt to make progress forwards. Because sometimes you can’t always say your progress forward because even in the effort of trying got make progress life gets in the way. So it’s just that where perseverance really comes in that’s why it’s there in the first place. Just continuously pushing until something gives.

	ML:	I think one of the things, when we were preparing for this interview, you talked about faith and in that you talked about how your parents teaching you about things and other things in life how like you knew what they were saying but you couldn’t foresee a lot of the things they were talking about. And I think it’s amazing how that’s the essence of faith itself and pairing the two together, faith and perseverance, it can be a recipe for success.

	WL:	Yes, I did talk about that because it was in the early days where my parents were continuously saying “You have to do good in school, you have to give it everything you have.” And this was as early as middle school and it’s used in a position where it really wasn’t until high school where I really saw where education could take me and college and so on. Because in middle school the last thing that’s on your mind is where you’re going to be five years from now or seven years from now. So I really had to take the words they were telling me and take education seriously. I had to take that in faith and





act upon it because I couldn’t see what was ahead. So I just had to believe they had a reason for saying that.

	ML:	Yeah I think that within itself is very powerful, especially growing up in the life that, you know. So do you have any favorite quotes, books or anything?

	WL:	The one that comes to mind is “We are what we believe we are.” ML:	Oh that’s good, so what made you choose that quote?

	WL:	Just because I feel like people have way more power over themselves than what they think they do. I feel like, you may not have power over your situation or what you’re going through, but you do have power over yourself. You can think of yourself as clay, it’s up to you and your perception of yourself to mold yourself into the person you want to be and often times that’s a growing process, and it takes time. But having the strength to take the right steps towards where you want to go is really good.

	ML:	That was a really good quote and a really good explanation of why you chose that quote, and so taking that and progressing forward into your college career, what made you choose the University of Florida?

	WL:	Different factors played into the role. Ultimately my main factor for choosing any University was convenience, location, just tuition, scholarship availability. It came to the factor of how good it would work for me and my family at the end of the day. I got accepted to I think eight, I think I applied to eight and I got accepted to all the colleges I applied to. Even while I was applying I knew there were some of them that I applied to that I would never go to because it wasn’t convenient for and it wouldn’t be convenient for. But the option for University of Florida really stood out because one, the education





level and the education they provide, which was really important for me and my parents, just at the University of Florida is held to a standard and it’s known for providing quality education. And two, the tuition and scholarships I got from the University of Florida. I’m actually an MFOS scholar.

	ML:	So first generation?



	WL:	Yes, first generation. So I get full tuition paid, books provided for. So like that really sealed the deal for me. That combined with the education factor, that really sealed the deal.

	ML:	Being a first generation student, how did that play a factor in your household and on your younger siblings? Because you do have younger siblings.

	WL:	Yes I do, being a first generation student is really, really, really, stressful because there’s a lot expected of you and it’s not even the quiet type of expectation. Like my dad would tell me constantly, “There’s expectations of you. There’s a lot on your plate, there’s a lot on your shoulders, you have to succeed, you have to push, you have to open the door so the younger ones can follow.” And I felt like that’s really what I’m trying to do.

	ML:	That’s a lot of stress on one person, when you came in what were you like eighteen? So how were you able to manage that stress from college life, still being a student but also a young adult and still growing and maturing?

	WL:	Yes, moving to Gainesville was life changing because previously I was in high school not working. I worked right after high school, you know the little break before high school and college, I worked then, but besides then I hadn’t worked before. So I was





just now moving on my own for the first time, first time being alone in a new city, I had no friends, no family in Gainesville. So I came here with zero connections and zero experience. So they just tossed me in the middle of it all and I feel like I really took it one step at a time. I really think that just starting with school first, the reason why I came here in the first place and then giving myself time to branch out to other things and like really learn how to write a check or do that on my own, and yeah I know that’s crazy but just different little things like that, that’s a learning process. But when you compare it to the bigger picture it’s just small steps. Small steps you have to take and you know you have to take them. So you have to set yourself up in a position where you can keep moving.

	ML:	And so you talked about having no experience, no connections, do you feel like there were programs or there were resources that were available at UF that shaped your experience? You know, not only as a first generation student but life as a student in general?

	WL:	Yes, UF definitely had a whole lot if programs that helped students especially, I remember taking my first year Flroida course and that was really helpful my first semester her. Not only did UF have a lot of programs to help students, but that class helped expose me to those programs early on. I feel like that was really important because if there’s something good there and you don’t know there’s something good there then it doesn’t really help you. I feel like that exposure, like really let me know what my options were. It was really, really important and especially considering that I was IA, that also provided another level of people that I could reach out to and opportunity that I could push through.





	ML:	So tell me a little more about IA and what does it stand for?



	WL:	IA stand for innovation academy, it’s about innovating just because the world is changing and we need to get more innovative and this provides an avenue for that.

	ML:	And I also wanted to ask you what does MFOS stand for? WL:	Machen Florida Opportunity Scholarship.

	ML:	And so how specifically, I know you talked about tuition and opportunities they provide financially, but are there any resources or programs that they offer within itself?

	WL:	MFOS fir the most part it’s a scholarship program, however they do provide workshops that help with stress, financial literacy, just different arrays of topics that would be relevant for any student, but specifically first gen students.

	ML:	So as a Haitian American as a young Black man in the African American community, are there programs, information or classes out there that gets you more involved within that community itself? And also enhances your knowledge of African American history?

	WL:	[inaudible 34:33] My first semester I had a hard time finding those specific resources, but I was introduced to BSU in the Reitz Union things really started to progress because one connection leads to one connection which leads to another. I feel like that was really the natural course of the process. I just needed to make that initial connection that would lead to another and another.

	ML:	And so are you taking any courses that teaches you about African American history? WL:	Yes I’m currently taking Intro to African American Studies.

	ML:	And who is that taught by?





	WL:	Yes my professor’s name is Vincent Adejumo. I don’t know if I’m saying that right. ML:	Okay so tell me about the course itself.

	WL:	The course itself is basically a general overview of the history of African Americans in America starting with the initial phase before slavery even into early African American history. It kind of progressed into slavery and then into abolitionist wars, the civil war, and then modern day. So it’s just a whole history of African Americans condensed so that we can explore the different avenues.

	ML:	So is this an online class or an in person class? WL:	I’m taking it online.

	ML:	Do you know anything about the professor in regard to his involvement outside of the classroom?

	WL:	I’m not specifically sure of all the programs or activities he’s been in, but I know on multiple occasions he’s addressed or spoken on Martin Luther King day for an audience and I know he’s somewhat involved within UF BME.

	ML:	Do you mind telling me a little about UF BME?



	WL:	UF BME is a subgroup of BSU where Black young educated males can get together and explore different avenues, go on trips and really collectively grow and support each other.

	ML:	Are you a part of that?



	WL:	No not currently, just because of the IA schedule and that’s a whole ‘nother story.





	ML:	Is there anything else that you know he’s involved with? WL:	Yes, he also oversees the NAACP of UF.

	ML:	Do you know anything about that or know what it stands for?



WL:  I’m currently not involved directly with that, but I do know the different events they hold and so forth. I also know that it stands for the University of Florida National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.

ML:  Do you feel like these events expands your knowledge on the things within the African American community?

	WL:	Yes they do for the most part. The different events have different purposes. Some of them are to inform, some of them are to engage, but I feel like they really do a good job of setting the goal and accomplishing it.

	ML:	What are you involved in from your freshman year to now?



	WL:	I’m currently involved in UF Club Creole, I’m also engaged in NESBI AND Rec Sports as you already know.

	ML:	Okay so what is NESBI?



	WL:	NESBI it’s National Society for Black Engineers.



	ML:	I think I’ve sent them before at an event for they were maybe stationed with a poster board, but do you mind elaborating a little bit more about the purpose of this organization and [inaudible 38:52]





	WL:	Yes just like any professional organization, it’s really a hub for connections and engagements and mentorship just to really engage engineers and expose them to the different resources and opportunities and really the information that they need to make the right decisions and more forward in their career.

	ML:	Are there any programs at UF that have shaped your cultural diversity?



	WL:	I would say NESBI and the Club Creole has they’ve given me that sense of community that I was lacking for a while.

	ML:	I know we talked about programs and kind of like involvement, tell me a little about your college experience with classes, friends, just living your typical college life.

	WL:	I can say college has been good, I’ve grown a lot both educationally and most other areas. I feel like although I wouldn’t say it was a struggle but it took a lot of effort at first. But I am now more comfortable reaching out to people if I need help or information or whatever it is and that really has made the process so much easier. Rather than taking all the burden up on myself like going out of my way and figuring it out 100 percent by myself that’s one thing, and my college experience has been fun. If you really look there’s a lot to do, I play basketball regularly, it’s like different activities you can get involved in to keep yourself busy and ways to really invest in yourself because certain activities you do really gives back to you while you’re giving back to others.

	ML:	So giving your experience here at UF, what is some advice you would give to students who are coming into college or students who are in college but don’t have a clear direction of what do or how to get involved?





	WL:	First thing, first and foremost, don’t be afraid to reach out. Find and establish your support system whether it’s with mentors, teachers, fellow students. The most resourceful. So just really put yourself in a position where you have information flow so that you’re never caught off the loop and you know what’s going on and remain engaged. I feel like that’s really the important thing like knowing what’s going on and then also I would say try hard and fail early. Because that’s really important, don’t be afraid to take big steps as long as they’re controlled steps because that would really lead to more growth. Because you learn a lot from learning your limitations. When you know your limitations you can gently push against them and expand them. You have to know yourself as a person and know your strengths and weaknesses. I feel like that’s really part of the growing process.

	ML:	Kind of progressing forward in the interview process, what is some history you know about UF?

	WL:	I know in the early 1800s there were serious racial issues in North Florida and Gainesville and that really took shape in the University. Even in the 1900’s after UF’s official campus was established, those same racial issues and racial tensions still roamed free in Gainesville. A mentality like that, an attitude like that, especially when it encompasses a whole community, it’s really hard to drop and really hard to change. So in that instance, situations, I’ve heard of multiple situations that arose where racial prejudices were acted upon and led to bad situations.

	ML:	So knowing this history about UF, and you mentioned the Gainesville area as well, in Florida in general, did you learn this information prior to coming to UF or during your time at UF?





	WL:	It was definitely prior to coming to UF.



	ML:	Tell me how that affects or affected your mindset, your decision making process. I know earlier you talked about the education, scholarships and opportunities afforded to you, but did this ever cross your mind?

	WL:	It definitely did cross my mind, it played a role because I wanted to be part of a community where I would feel at home and I feel like you can really flourish, just like I did my early days, when you have a good environment around you. So I feel like that definitely was part of the decision process, but if I’m gonna be honest, it definitely was not on the lower side. Because certain factors were more critical to me at that point. Not that it was meaningless because it definitely meant a lot.

	ML:	Talking about that, in your opinion, what are some positives and negatives associated with the University of Florida?

	WL:	With the University of Florida, from my perspective, and during high school, the education was definitely a real plus, the abundance of resources, there’s just a lot of opportunities. Especially, I’ve learned like my second semester here you can rent a 3-D printer at UF and that just blew my mind because like wow. There’s really like an abundance of things you can do at UF and with the cons I would go for me was the lack of community cause whenever I told someone back in high school that I would be going to UF, that was the first thing they mentioned. So the lack of community, even one of my fellow students went as far as to say, “You wouldn’t have the environment.” I guess he said “You wouldn’t have the same community.” So he said something along those lines and that really pressed deep.





	ML:	So talking about the lack of community that people associate with UF, now even go as far as say a PWI, a predominantly White institution, how does that affect your involvement and your ability to stay connected within that community?

	WL:	It took me months to figure it out but when I did figure it out, what I realized was that there may not be a lot of my people here at UF, but it’s really they are! It’s really on my part to take the initiative to reach out and go out of my way and reach out. I feel like that’s the real difference between a PWI and other institutions, is that you have to be willing to go out of your way and putting the effort to reach out and find your community and find where you belong. Especially on a big campus at a big college like UF. There’s people like you in the University you just have to know where to look and be proactive enough to reach out.

	ML:	This is going to be a two-part question, the first is do you believe that UF is diverse?



And do you believe that your community expands far beyond, as you put it, my people specifically to elaborate for this interview African American people?

	WL:	Yes, I do believe UF is diverse just because you can find different people from different countries, different places, different areas of life, on the same campus. As for part two, I do believe my community expands further than just, because the way I put my community is the people I can relate to on a certain level. So as I’m growing into my profession as an engineer, naturally my communities can also encompass some of those people as well, or some form of my community, or some level of my community. Just engineers in general because I can relate to them. I can talk about the work place, I can discuss mathematics, different ideas, different thought processes with them. In the same way my community can encompass different people as well just as I grow and





expose myself to different things, as I become more, I can expand my community to encompass with more people. Because when you grow you can relate to different things so you can relate to different communities.

	ML:	We’re going to transition into the next topic, so we’ll talk a little bit about truth commissions, do you know what truth commissions are?

	WL:	Yes, I’ve heard instances where truth commissions were established in Haiti. Especially since over the years Haiti has been known to have really like corrupt government. So when such instances get so bad that the people feel the need to establish such commissions and they have the support to do so, it brings hope. But specifically, truth commissions are basically boards set up to investigate past wrongdoings by governmental work or government officials.

	ML:	Do you believe that the truth commission in Haiti was effective? In your opinion do you feel like it restored peace or just established a sense of restoration within the community of people?

	WL:	Yes I feel like it did. It restored peace because it brought awareness and showed what was really happening. It exposed the truth, but at the same time, I can say maybe that peace didn’t last as long as it needed to. Because there were no additional measures to make sure that the past actions that were being investigated upon would not reoccur.

	ML:	So do you know anything specifically about what caused the truth commission to come about? I know you talked about government corruption, is there anything specific that you can tell me about?





	WL:	Yeah, my grandma used to mention President Aristide and how he really brought a change to the country and it wasn’t necessarily a good change. Because it was a time of oppression and corruption to the point where oppression of all people. So the dynamic of the country would change and it wasn’t necessarily in a good way. Times got harder, food prices would rise and my grandma used to do commerce, which is a Haitian work for commerce. So she was basically selling things. There was like an open street market and she knew about the prices and she was telling me about how hard times were and how hard times were getting at that time, and how businesses could get pretty bad.

	ML:	You talked about your grandma, about how economically things would get bad and this was one aspect of your family being affected by the negative side of this corruption, so how did your family positively or negatively were affected by this truth commission that was supposed to restore a lot of things in the community?

	WL:	Yes, in time the truth commission provided hope. I remember my grandma telling me that—because when you see people working on what’s wrong it gives you hope that something will get fixed and I feel like that’s the greatest incentive of the truth commission beyond putting the people in charge responsible, besides holding the people in charge responsible. It provides hope to the country that progress will be made, things will be fixed and a working government that abides by its own rules can be put in place.

	ML:	I know you talked about your grandma telling you stories about this, but there are other stories in relation to the truth commissions that she told you in regards to government or the livelihood within that economy?





	WL:	Yes, actually this was on my grandpa’s part because during the Haiti earthquake, the earthquake had a really devastating effect. I believe in 2010, 2012, I can’t remember exactly, but my grandpa was in Haiti at the time and the situation at the time was really bad. Just because of the devastation of the earthquake and the relief process, there were efforts like really extended efforts to help the Haitians, at least at the location my grandpa was in. The efficiency of those efforts weren’t all as well as they could be because oftentimes the relief was lopsided. So certain areas would get what they needed while other areas did not.

	ML:	Do you know anything about truth commissions in Florida, specifically in the Gainesville area?

	WL:	Yes, there’s a local truth commission established in Alachua county. It’s meant to address racial issues that have arisen in its most general form.

	ML:	Do you know about any specifics about, I believe you said racial issues, are there any specific ways in which you know about them bringing forth awareness?

	WL:	Yes, they brought awareness just through other ways in which they would bring awareness to government programs or activities. Their main goal is to reconcile with the past wrongdoings, address them, and also make people aware of them. Just being proactive and providing a channel of distribution, voice, and most importantly truth, that may or may not have been muted by those individuals.

	ML:	How do you think people within the community, just thinking about Haiti, can learn about this truth commission?





	WL:	Just more exposure is what they really need, because the people really do care and they really would like to know the history and the actions that were made for them and their people. As a generality I feel like any people within a country wants the truth on what’s really going on with their government.

	ML:	How can awareness be brought to people who do not want to address or learn about the truth they have thrown to the side?

	WL:	I believe you reach through by remaining true to the goal which is restoring peace and bringing forth awareness. Regardless if you deny the truth or not, the truth will still remain true. You can try to change history and try to change the narrative, but you can’t change the hurt, the poverty, the economy, the social instability and any other trauma that has been caused. You reach by telling the truth and staying true to the people who are willing to tell their truth to gain restoration and peace within their community and the government establishments.

	ML:	In your opinion how do you compare these two commissions? The one in Haiti and the one in Gainesville?

	WL:	I would compare them because they’re both addressing the issue of what is wrong and is trying to really investigate and expose and bring forth some form of awareness so that progress can be made in that advancements can be made. I think it’s a fair comparison to draw between the two situations of the economic downfall and the exploitation of people in both instances and in the situation if Haiti it’s really the exploitation of the government because they take whatever the wrongdoings they were doing at the price of the people. Because the people are paying the price ultimately because they trusted





whoever they elected to run the country with a certain level of responsibility and the moment they fall short of that, they are paying the price and in the same way we can draw parallels to slavery, segregation, the civil rights movement, where African American people paid the price for the thinkings and the doings of early rights, Whites. That really set a precedence and that precedence is what we’re feeling today. It’s the long-term effects of how people perceive others and I feel like that’s where the point of prejudice comes in, and it’s what people can’t stand to drop, and it’s where it stems from. So in its essence, slavery equals the development of racial issues, that’s where we see the roots of racial inequality, educational disparities, impoverished communities and other instances where African American people are set in a position where they have less to work with than other people in similar situations. This systematic oppression by institutions really set the precedence that we are fighting really hard to break even in present day America.

	ML:	Do you think these commissions are important to know about and understand?



	WL:	Yes it open your eyes to what’s going on in the world around you and I feel like understanding what’s going on and the issues that are presenting themselves in present day and the past is really key in being a part of the change in your country.

	ML:	Do you believe these truth commissions are well-known to people around the world or even locally?

	WL:	I feel like they’re not known as much as they should be because there’s a lack of information flow, especially in countries like Haiti where people in lower class especially don’t get information as soon or as quickly as they should.





	ML:	What do you believe the overlying importance of these truth commissions are?



	WL:	They give a voice to those voices that have been muted because they allow them to really be part of and contribute and speak up about how they have been oppressed and how they have been taken advantage of which many people in that situation do not have an opportunity to do and they put people responsible for their actions. They hold them accountable.

	ML:	So that concludes the questions that’s I have for you today, is there anything you would like to add to this interview about yourself, about your family, your experiences, any other opinions regarding these commissions or anything?

	WL:	No nothing else.



	ML:	Okay, so thank you for taking the time out, for allowing me to interview you today.





[End of transcript]



Transcribed by:

Olivia Lafuente

November 18, 2019.

Audit-Edited by:

Sandra Romero

April 29, 2020

Final-Edited by:

Sandra Romero

January 14, 2021