AAHP 423; Shelley; Page 10

Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu





The image part with relationship ID rId1 was not found in the file.



AAHP 423 Rachel Shelley African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Vicki Oldham on December 4, 2015 57 minutes | 34 pages



Abstract: Dr. Rachel Shelley reflects on her upbringing in Newtown, Florida and the full circle she made back to Newtown to serve her community as a teacher and eventually principal. Dr. Shelley grew up in project housing raised by her grandmother. She remembers her childhood fondly despite her poverty and lack of access to resources.

Her teachers really pushed her to continue her education as far as she could go. She attended Bethune Cookman College and studied Hospitality but did not like it. She soon found herself teaching and liked it. She went back for her master’s degree and eventually PhD and became the principal at Booker High School. She discusses the changes she has seen in the education system and the impacts of social media and technology on students.



Keywords: [Newtown, Florida; Florida Black History; Black educators; African American History]



Standards

1. SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.





























For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 423 (Newtown Oral History Project) Interviewee: Rachel Shelley

Interviewer: Vicki Oldham Date: December 4, 2015



	I:	Today is December fourth. What is your full name?



	S:	I was born Rachel Rochelle Abner. My full name now is Dr. Rachel Shelley. I:	And when were you born?

	S:	I was born June the third, 1967 right here in Sarasota, at Sarasota Memorial Hospital.

	I:	Where did you live?



	S:	If you’re thinking about where I lived when I was growing up, it was in a variety of places. I shared with others and I shared for years. We lived in literally every single housing public unit in Sarasota including Project Lane, Cornway, in the old projects, but a staple was with my grandmother. We called her Mother. It was my dad’s mom, Clara Abner was her name, people called her Shorty. And I’ll never forget. Her address was 2924 Maple Avenue. In fact, it’s less than a block and a half from Booker High School.

	I:	Is the house still standing?



	S:	No, it’s not. It was renovated many, many years ago, just before she passed. And then recently, there has been some major, major alterations so the house that I remember is no longer there. There is a house on the lot, but it was not the house that I grew up in. I remember that old, wooden house and I remember sitting in the back. We had one of those, the fence that would hang from the branches, and that swinging fence. My grandmother had it surrounded by fence and she would go on that fence and people say, “Good Morning.” And her words were always, “Good Morning, how are you? Fine. Thank the lord, how are you?”





And that was mother. And down at the end we had Mr. Lonnie. And Mr. Lonnie had a little small store that was in an efficiency that he converted. So I remember those days. I remember hearing Booker High School’s marching band. So no, the house is no longer standing there, but I have extremely fond memories. And interestingly, next door to my grandmother, my Auntie Pearline Stevens lived.

She lived there most of our lives.



	I:	We’re gonna get into some of those stories, but tell me who your parents were, and were they living here always, or did they come from someplace else?

	S:	My father, Johnny Abner, and people would remember him as Buddy. He was born in Moultrie, Georgia, but grew up here in Sarasota, and actually attended and graduated from Booker High School. He did a lot of interesting things when he was here, including a wonderful football player. In fact, I was later told that he was one of the first African American lifeguards that they had at what we used to call The Wreck. So that was my father, and he passed away in March. March the first, 2009. And then my mom, absolutely beautiful. Her name is Betty Spencer. She was raised as Betty Morgan, Betty Ruth Morgan. And she was born in Arcadia, Florida. And she recently she’s in a major crisis right now with her health. She just recently moved back to Arcadia, so now I’m taking a weekly trip going back to Arcadia to visit her, and it’s almost full circle. When I was born and we were younger, I remember taking that same drive to Arcadia once a week when we were younger and my parents were together. And now that we’re in a different spot in our lives, I’m making the drive now weekly, as well, and I’m going over to visit with her now.





	I:	Do you know why your dad moved from Moultrie to here, Sarasota?



	S:	I’m not sure, I’m not sure why. I wish I would’ve had the opportunity to ask him that question, but I do know he absolutely loved Sarasota.

	I:	Describe your childhood. Take us back to those days, maybe the earliest memories.

	S:	I remember 2924 Maple Avenue. I remember being in the road. We played a lot outside. When we were playing on the road, I would remember red light, green light. I remember playing kickball. I remember playing hide-and-seek. I can actually visualize running behind people houses and hiding. I remember those days. I remember being a little one growing up in Shiloh Primitive Baptist Church. I remember the public speaking contest, oratorical contest. I remember studying for those Easter speeches, and making sure I was prepared and ready to go. I remember the Christmas speeches. I remember as we transitioned from one house to another. I can remember the experiences. I remember how I was felt. I remember graduating from Riverview High School, but before that, I can remember when I was a—I believe if I’m not mistaking—it was in Kindergarten, first, and second grade right here at the old Booker school was where I attended. And I remember transitioning over to Phillippi Shores in third grade. I remember my teacher. I remember the one that transformed my entire life. I can remember that. I can remember attending Sarasota Junior High School. I remember the experience and what it was like, but I think what stands out in my mind the most, I remember not having access to a washer and a dryer, and I was cheering at the time at Riverview High School. And I remember taking the socks and washing





them on my hand, and I can remember placing them on the inside of the oven dryer so that the heat would dry them, but not burn them. I can remember those days. I can remember when my father, at one point he used to own a restaurant and bar and lounge called Manhattan, it was on Central Avenue. And I can remember possibly being in fifth, sixth, seventh grade, and I remember he would come and pick us up every morning, and we were allowed to go and help him clean up the bar. And I remember my father car and what he drove, and havin’ a truck, and we would go and clean up, and yes, I had to clean and we had do that domestic activity, and I don’t remember being compensated at the time, but I remember those days. I had a wonderful, wonderful childhood. Absolutely hard, difficult at times, but enjoyable. Enjoyable. I loved the most thinking about those times with my cousins, my siblings, when we would play outside. And the only rule was, you had to be in the house before the lights went off. So you needed to be in as the Sun was going down because when those lights came on, not off and on, you better be heading home. So I remember those days.

	I:	You were free, then, to play outside and just go anywhere, just be home by the time the lights came on?

	S:	Absolutely, we were free. I remember running errands up to the Jenkins Grocery Store, and during that time, your word was your bond and my grandmother would say, “You go and get me these items.” No money, and we would go up and we would order what she wanted and we would tell Mr. Jenkins, “My grandmother’s name is Maggie Morgan.” That was my mom’s mom or either Mother, and everyone knew her as Mother. That was Clara May Abner. I remember those





times, and yes we were free to play, and it was in an environment at a time where there was a lot of trust. There was a lot of trust and most of the businesses in the new town were owned by African Americans. I can remember Mr. Joe in that big blue building where he would fix bicycles. I can remember all of those wonderful times. The Humphreys and their grocery stores. So yes, I do remember those opportunities.

	I:	And you say you didn’t have to pay money to get the groceries? S:	Unh-uh.

	I:	How did that work, do you know?



	S:	Absolutely. You would walk in, and they knew if we were Mother’s grandchild or we were Maggie Morgan’s grandchild, and they would say, “That girl right there, that’s Maggie Morgan’s grandchild.” And I would go, “Here’s the list, here’s what my grandmother sent me to get, okay.” And I would see him writing things down, and I would take that and we would go home with it, so I assume now as an adult there was some type of credit and payment that was in place and we were allowed to and get these items, and then he would charge her. And I believe now in hindsight, probably the first of each month when she would have her income come in, she would go and pay the balance. But we never had any difficulties in being able to go and do those things. We knew exactly what to get and we knew what we could not get. [Laughter]

	I:	What couldn’t you get?



	S:	Well, what we didn’t have permission. Candy at the time were pennies, and you had the little small cookies that were pennies, and we were not told we could





have extra. We would not get those things, but then sometimes we could. And sometimes Mr. Jenkins or Mr. Humphrey or Mr. Lonnie, they would allow us to have those items.

I:    It sounds like an idyllic childhood.



	S:	There were always times because of, you know, we had issues with things that– I wouldn’t say issues, because now I realize in hindsight. I didn’t understand that we were socially economically deprived. I didn’t know that we may have a lack of resources. I didn’t understand that we may have been poor, but now when I think about things as an adult, I can see that there are some things that we did not have, but if that’s all we knew, we enjoyed those opportunities. When I say “we,” I’m speaking about all of my siblings so I think that we were in a place where we were more importantly than the “have” and the “have-nots,” it was a happy time. My parents were married sometimes and sometimes they weren’t, so there were some issues there. But more in the line and the role of a child, I remember being exceptionally happy as a young person.

I:    And what kind of toys did you get for Christmas?



	S:	I wasn’t the baby doll playing young girl growing up. [Laughter] And I liked board games. I remember Sorry and I remember the game, I can’t recall the name now, where you would go in, ‘cause I never really wanted to be a doctor, but I liked having the ability to use those fine motor skills and going in and picking out the pieces of the bone and then the buzzer would go off. And I remember these games also being at the recreational center, so I was always a board game type of person and that’s what I enjoyed the most. I did not, I’m sorry, but I did not





care for any of the baby dolls, I just never did that. I don’t know if I was a tomboy at the time, but I just didn’t enjoy that. I was a board game person.

	I:	Were the streets paved or unpaved when you all were playing outside? S:	They were paved, they were paved.

	I:	Who were your teachers at the Booker school?



S:  I don’t remember the names of my teachers when I attended Booker Elementary School at the time but I do recall that my– and it was my older sister. We shared the same father and had different moms. And we grew up calling her, Topsie.

Her name was Teresa Jones at the time. I remember she had something to do with preschool, and I don’t know if she was a preschool teacher or she was a preschool aid, but I can vaguely remember her possibly either before kindergarten or during my kindergarten years here when I was at Emma E. Booker, but I do recall my third grade teacher and she was at Phillippi Shores. Her name was Miss Spector. And I remember Miss Spector as if it was yesterday. I remember being in Miss Spector’s class and she gave us an assignment. And the assignment was, we were listening to things and we had to write down what we were hearing. I told this story many, many times because I reflect back on a teacher that changed my life. It was Miss Spector. She was probably about five feet tall, maybe one inch, and probably a hundred pounds, as my grandmother would say, “Soaking wet.” But with this particular assignment, we were sitting in the front, as I always sat because you would do everything in A, B, C order, my last name was Abner so I was always in the front. When it was time to go to the cafeteria, we had to line up in that order as well. And I recall





Miss Spector saying, “I’m going to play a couple of sounds.” She played the first sound, and that was easy. It was a doorbell. The doorbell was ringing and I wrote that down quickly. Then here comes sound number two. Sound number two I remember distinctively, and I remember commercial. I wrote that down, the name of the commercial. Then, sound number three. Sound number three came, I had no idea. So I’m sitting around, I’m looking around at the other students in the classroom and they’re writing, and I wasn’t writing because I didn’t know the answer. And I was smart, so I thought. So I didn’t understand why they were writing and I was not writing, I didn’t know. Then she said, “Sound number four.” We were listening to sound number four and had to write it down on paper. I didn’t know sound number four. I had no idea what it was. Here comes sound number five. She plays sound number five now. When she went to sound number five, I had an attitude. I was angry, I was upset. I said, “This is stupid.” I threw the paper and she looked at me and I didn’t want to disappoint Miss Spector. I knew I was in trouble. I knew I was in trouble. She looked at me and said, “When the other students line up, don’t line up, Rachel.” Oh, no. I upset my perfect, wonderful teacher. She’s gonna be so upset with me. And at the end, they went on to the cafeteria. I knew I was in trouble ‘cause I couldn’t go. When we would go to the cafeteria during that time, I was always a nice person, a nice girl. I would stay and clean the tables and I would always get a popsicle, so I was upset because I couldn’t go early, which meant I wasn’t going to be selected to get the popsicle. But nevertheless, she said, “Rachel, what’s wrong with you?” And I started crying. I was in third grade and I remember this like it was





yesterday. She goes, “Why are you crying?” I said, “I’m hearing a sound that I didn’t know.” She goes, “Let me see your paper.” I show her the paper. “You got number one right, doorbell. Number two, commercial. Number three, why didn’t you write it out?” “Miss Spector, I thought you loved me. You asked me to do something. I didn’t know you were playing sounds, I didn’t know. Everyone else knew. Why didn’t I know? What was it?” She goes, “It was a washer.” I said, “Miss Spector, a washer? We go to the laundromat on Line Avenue!” “Oh. That fourth sound was a dryer.” “Miss Spector.” “Rachel, you don’t have a washer or dryer?” “No. We don’t have those things.” Needless to say, that fifth sound was a dish washer. We lived in public housing. We moved around, we didn’t have those things, and I was at Phillippi Shores School at the time. She said to me, “You don’t have these?” I said, “No, we don’t have those things.” “Would you like to have those things, because most people have those things in their homes?” I said, “Absolutely.” Miss Spector changed my life at that moment. She said, “You can get those things and more. What do you want?” I said, “Miss Spector, I want to have those things, I want a big house with a big pool, and I wanna get married. I wanna have two kids.” She goes, “You can do that, but first, you need to graduate from high school.” “How do I do that?” “You need to go to school, you need to apply yourself.” I said, “Okay, I can do that. What’s next?” “You need to get an associate’s degree.” “Associate’s degree? You need to go to college?

What’s college, Miss Spector?” That’s when I understood the difference between the different levels of education. She explained what that meant. Then, she took it a step further. She goes, “Or, you can continue and get a Bachelor’s.” I said, “I





want that, too.” Then she said, “The more education you have, the more money you make. The more money you make, the more you can buy your heart’s desires. I said, “Miss Spector, what’s the highest degree you can get?” Third grade. She said to me, “A doctorate.” I said, “I want one of those.” She goes, “And you can get it, but you must work hard. You must graduate from high school.” That’s all she said to me and when I went home that night, it changed my entire life. I did everything Miss Spector said. I graduated from high school. I didn’t go for my Associate’s, but I graduated from high school at the age of sixteen. Then I went on to Bethune Cookman College, and I got my master’s, and I received my doctorate. I bought that big house with that big pool. It was Miss Spector that exposed me to that at that age. It’s interesting because I didn’t realize then the impact that she had on my life. I wasn’t at all surprised that later I went into education, because I fully understand the importance of encouraging, motivating, inspiring our students, regardless of their circumstances. She didn’t talk about what I could not do. She believed in me. And I knew then, and I’ve been on a mission to do the same thing and more with all the students that I work with.

	I:	Your students, I’m sure, they all know Mrs. Spector by now.



	S:	I’ve told the story several of times to my students, to my staff. I’ve encouraged my staff to be the Miss Spector in our students’ lives. And maybe not that particular way, but somehow believing in them, reaching them, connecting them, inspiring, encouraging, and motivating them. Not looking at where they are, but what they can become, regardless, regardless. Knowing that, if students had the





wheel and the desire that anything they wanted to do, they could accomplish, regardless of the circumstances. So, yes I’ve shared that with my staff over the last twenty-five years, but in particular since I became the principal of Booker High School.

	I:	Wow. It is an incredible story. Is that your most memorable school moment? S:	Yes.

	I:	What about least memorable– I mean, least incredible moment in school?



	S:	It’s interesting that you paraphrase the question in the way that you did, because it was not the experience, but the lack of, that I remember the most. Let me explain. I said to you earlier that I thought I was smart when I was in school. I said to you earlier that I graduated from Riverview High School when I was sixteen. But what I don’t recall now, I don’t ever recall someone explaining honors classes, and how if I took honors classes in high school, that I may earn extra credit to get to college. What I don’t recall, anyone explaining Advanced Placement classes. I don’t ever recall anyone talking to me about dual enrollment classes. I don’t ever remember meeting or talking to a counselor to talk about scholarships and opportunities. So, it’s not the least experience that happened as a result. I remember now the opportunities that I missed out on. And I am absolutely adamant that we will provide the opportunities for the students here at Booker High School by having these conversations, because it didn’t happen to me. So unfortunately, that negative experience for me, it has turned into something positive. And because now at this particular school in this juncture, every single week we have a grade level assembly. And during those





assemblies, students would hear about the opportunities. And if they decide not to pursue, it’s only because that’s the decision they made, but at least it’s an informed decision. Our goal is simple: students will graduate college or career ready and become productive members of our society, and everything we do is aligned to that. The most important part is knowledge and awareness. Too much is given, much is expected. It’s my responsibility– our responsibility, with the support of the teachers and administrators, to explain these opportunities to our students and their families, because I am sure in 2015, there are some parents that are simply not aware of the unique opportunities. How now our kids could earn an associate’s degree and college opportunities and credits while they’re in high school. I’m not going to take it for granted that they don’t know or they do know, we’re explaining it to everyone. That’s my goal, and that happened as the result of the negative experience when I was in high school.

	I:	Tell me about your trajectory from, say, high school to where you are today. I mean, college certainly figured prominently into your career trajectory, as Mrs. Spector influenced you.

	S:	[Laughter] Yes, she did. I graduated from Riverview High School. Wonderful experience, other than what I just shared with you. I was a cheerleader at Riverview High School, connected and involved with a lot of neat things. I remember talking about some of the opportunities that I’ve mentioned. Once I graduated from there, I remember having a meeting with, it was Dr. James at the time. I remember going to their house, and he actually came to my home, and we talked about the possibilities—





	I:	Ed James?



	S:	Ed James, yes. The possibility of going to Bethune Cookman College at the time.



My mom said, “Absolutely.” And I remember being exceptionally afraid and uncomfortable because at that time, there was no one in my family that had an opportunity to go over to college. And I never took a tour. Now, students take tours. They go around, they visit, they look at all the unique opportunities, and then they make a decision. And that was only one conversation. I decided I was going, and we applied, I was accepted and I spent my first four years at Bethune Cookman College at Daytona Beach. It was absolutely a wonderful experience. And I think, not only was I in college, but I had an opportunity to grow up and develop as a young lady. I remember little small things that we would learn at Bethune Cookman College about character, the way to conduct yourself, the way to carry yourself, things that I don’t think they were picking up at traditional schools. That was an expectation at Bethune Cookman College. I also pledged into a sorority, I became a member of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority during that time. But interestingly, I remember not even having the resources to do that. I remember coming back home to Sarasota, and it was my sister Orji who took me around, and we were able to get other people to donate to that cause. I joined that sorority on the back of community members right here in Sarasota. I left from Bethune Cookman College, I earned a Bachelor’s of Science in Hospitality Management. Why Hospitality Management? During that time, we were told that if you majored in this new opportunity, they would guarantee a job upon graduation, and that is what I wanted. So I accepted that position and I did not





like it. I did not like it. I did not like working in that particular field, only because remember? I wanted to get married and have a big house with a– well, in that particular industry, it’s 365 days a year and there’s a lot of inconsistencies. My high school sweetheart and I were still together, Carlton Shelley, and I decided that I’m sorry, this is not what I wanna do. They did everything they promised. I received a job, I was working for Hyatt Hotels. I was in management in Tennessee, transferred to Tampa and came back to Sarasota.

	I:	Why did you come back?



	S:	Well, I did not like hospitality. I did not like hospitality. We relocated, we got married and I relocated back to Sarasota, and I had an opportunity of going back to someone that was very dear to my heart at the time. He was my assistant principal over at Sarasota Junior High School, and it was Mr. Earl Watts. And he was working for the district at the time. He and Miss Watts. I received a binder, since I had a degree, a binder that would allow me to teach. And as a part of my career experience, I had to work my first year as an aide. Left hospitality, back in Sarasota, received an assignment to become a teacher here in Sarasota County. But the first year I was an aide over at Bay Haven School of Basics Plus.

Because of the expansive opportunities of others that helped pave the way for me, and it was Earl and Mary Watts that gave me that unique opportunity. He was working at one department, Human Resources, and she was in another. And I took that job, running behind P.E. balls over at Bay Haven School of Basics Plus, and it was called Booker Bay Haven at the time. I had a wonderful opportunity there. I learnt a lot about education and the very next year I became





a First Grade teacher down in North Port. I worked there for about five years. I was in labor with my son driving home when I realized that forty five minute drive was a little too long. I decided then to come back to Sarasota and work. I was still living in Sarasota working in North Port and I secured a job at Emma E. Booker. For the next seven, eight years I would go from Emma E. Booker to Booker Middle. From Booker Middle to Emma E. From Emma E. back to Booker Middle School and worked in a variety of different positions from Special Ed, Reading, Math teacher. Always had leadership roles, became a lead teacher, and I really enjoyed education. During that time, when I was going back and forth, I was able to go to Bowling Green and secure my Master’s in Special Ed. I came back and—

	I:	You went to Kentucky? S:	Yes. Yes.

	I:	Why Bowling Green?



	S:	They offered me an assistantship at no cost in order to get my master’s and I said, “Okay, I’ll take advantage of that.” So, I went to Bowling Green, Ohio, I apologize. Bowling Green, Ohio where I secured my wonderful master’s from there and I came back to Sarasota and continued going in education. Went back to Booker Middle School, Emma E. again. And finally, after about four years, going back and forth between the two schools, and I don’t know why. I loved working with Emma E. students and I loved working with Booker Middle School students. But when I was working with the gentleman by the name of Wayne Green over at my last experience at Booker Middle School, he said to me, “I think





you should consider going into leadership.” I decided okay. So during that time, I decided to go and get a specialist’s in leadership and I did. I went to Argosy University at that time. That position landed me an assistant principal position down in Riverview High School. I was there for a couple of years and it was so interesting, because when I went to Riverview High School I became Assistant Principal there.

	I:	That’s your alma mater.



	S:	That was my alma mater, precisely. My favorite teacher, who’s a science teacher, was still there and I became his supervisor. [Laughter] So, that was interesting. And then after that, I was very fortunate to go to a little small school called Phoenix Academy. After being at Phoenix Academy for a number of years as an assistant principal, then I became the principal. Then I had the unique opportunity, once I decided it was time, to apply for this position. And this is my fifth year as the proud principal at Booker High School.

	I:	Wow. Can you describe the changes in Newtown that you saw as you came of age? Say, as you went to Bethune-Cookman and came back, I’m sure you saw some changes and then even when you went to Ohio for probably two years, came back—

	S:	I finished up in a year. But nevertheless, when I came back, you can almost see changes going on. No more Jenkins, no more Humphries. The stores were either closing down or being taken over by new ownership. So you could see the Newtown businesses and the owners beginning to transform. They went from different people that I grew up knowing and supporting to different business





owners. So you could automatically, instantly see that. You begin to see more inappropriate choices being made by some of the local students in the community. I don’t recall seeing that growing up. I don’t recall being on the corner and have people hanging out at different hours of the night. I don’t recall seeing that. I remember being on 27th Street and I remember the Christmas decorations that Mr. Jackson Grimes and others would hang. I remember that. I remember the fabulous Easter parades and that began to change. It was no longer floats and decorations and cars. You could see different types of things going on, where you saw– and we always had the dancing groups. That was fine, but just different levels of entertainment that was not accustomed to what I recall growing up. You could see those changes almost occurring right in front of your eyes.

During that time, it just began to transform into something that was not as positive. I’m hoping that at one point we’ll be able to get back to those days.

	I:	The two major transitions in your life would be?



	S:	I would probably say three. The first and foremost, getting married. Then, having my two children. I would put those two together. I think number three, although I had many, many wonderful experiences in education as it relates to my career, but I must admit the biggest one now in my life, I think when I worked in Emma E., when I worked at Booker Middle School and spent some time down in New Port, and when I was over here at Bay Haven School of Basics Plus. I know now. I know now. I know without a shadow of a doubt that I was being prepped, I was being primed. I had to be planted as a seed and I had to grow into this beautiful, beautiful tree that someone was working on so that I could become the principal





of Booker High School. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely, without a doubt in my mind, I love my job. I love what I do each and every day. My vocation is really my vacation. The reason why I identify that as number three because I think, and I’m going to say I think God gave me this calling. It’s a calling. It is a calling. And I’m so passionate about it that sometimes that passion takes over. Because my friends will tell you, you don’t talk about my kids, you don’t talk about my family, and you don’t talk about Booker High School and my students. And they all know that. And it’s because I value what I do. I love what I do and I just believe so strongly in the responsibility that I have to move our students forward. And the reason why I do that in theory now, and I recall, it’s probably the same thing that happened with me and Miss Spector. Miss Spector was really helping me to think about my quality of life and the life that I wanted to have and could have. And that’s why I do what I do with my students. It’s all about the quality of life. There are times when I become adamant that I am going to prove everybody wrong. I’m going to take what people say about statistics as they relate to certain groups of students and I wanna flip it on its head. And I believe you can do that. I know that you can do that with inspiration, encouragement, and motivation and high expectations. Again, I just believe that for almost forty-one years of my life that, I was becoming prepared to be the person that I am now. And my job is not necessarily to find me but I love it so much that sometimes I forget that I am Rachel and do have other things outside of school. But I also know that I am Principal Shelley and when He gave me that responsibility I embrace it and I live it and I make sure that I surround myself with people that I know share the same





vision and mission and it’s fortunate that I’m able to work with good, high quality teachers, and administrators, and central office staff that would support some sometimes interesting ideas. But they are ideas that I’ve taken to that greater Higher Power, and I know because it’s a calling that I’m doing always what’s right by kids.

	I:	Wow. You leave me speechless, but I will continue on. How is educating students, then, different than it was through the years that you were at, say Phoenix, say Booker Bay Haven, say Booker Elementary? I know that you’ve seen some changes.

	S:	Absolutely. For one, the biggest, and I think the most important change is that we are teaching students now to become critical thinkers. Teachers are no longer a stand and delivery. Instead, you have become a facilitator. You provide the students with the information and the resources and instead of giving them a problem and telling them the answer, “Yes you’re right.” No. The expectation now is once you introduce the material, and you directly teach a model, you pass that information on and you give the students a problem, and sometimes they need to struggle through it to figure it out, but they need to embrace learning and learn how to think. So we’re no longer just giving, we’re facilitating and building an environment where our students will become critical thinkers and they must think and work through a problem and be able to solve it on its own. And the reason why I love that is because we also grew up in a town where you always had to do quick thinking and it was rote memory: “What’s three times five? Fifteen.” Well, no, if you have three shirts and you have five pair of pants, how many outfits can





you make? So it’s different types of things. I remember thinking, “Oh, I’m smart. I know my multiplication facts.” No. Can you clearly explain and analyze, and then you give them a scenario or you give them a word problem. Or you give them some type of situation where they have to think through it. So I think for me, the biggest transformation in education: we’re no longer standing and delivering; you are facilitating information because you want to develop critical thinkers. You want to give them a problem and be able to think through it. Now, they need to know the statistics in their research and the multiplication facts in order to solve that problem, but you want everyone to become critical thinkers, and that’s what our employers are looking for. They’re looking for critical thinkers. So if you say to me, “The sky is blue.” Well, it’s really not blue, but let’s go out and take a look at it. Why do you think– you’re analyzing, you’re talking about it, you’re trying to work through it, instead of always a concrete response, and sometimes there is no concrete answer. And we were not taught like that. It was always one way or two informations or two areas or two opportunities to figure it out. But now we realize it could be even more than that.

	I:	So what about the teachers? They have to really be on task because they’re not teaching the same way.

	S:	Absolutely. Learning, growing, and professional development, and lots and lots of collaboration. There’s no longer teachers teaching in isolation. We expect for our teachers to collaborate and get together. Here’s a prime example I’m going to walk you through a circle as it relates to some of the changes. We are now going through a phase where more and more schools are asking their teachers to





collaborate to come up with an idea. Let me give you an example of how that may look, not just as an idea, but to help students to increase their mastery. Teachers are now working in small groups and they may come up with a standard. The standard is going to be based on a standard from their content area, what they’re going to be teaching, what they want their students to know. Now you have this standard, or you have this objective. You take that standard and now we’re going to come up with the way we’re going to assess the standard. I may call that formative assessment. It could be an end-of-the-course exam, or a quiz, or some type of project based activity. Doesn’t matter what it is, but as long as there is a way for you to assess the knowledge of the students.

Here’s what’s different: now down here, standard and you have the assessment. Now over here, you’re going to take that assessment then you’re going to analyze it. So Vicky, I have Algebra One, you have Algebra One. We’re working on factoring. That’s a standard that we identify. We’re going to come up with the assessment. The assessment may be an exit ticket. We ask a couple of questions, we write it down, they work out. I analyze my students, you analyze your students. And then we say, okay, well thirty percent of my students passed, and you may say, well eighty percent of my students passed this particular assessment, this is the interesting part. Now you take that piece, and well, what strategy did you use? How did you teach it? Once we talk about how, if your strategy worked and you have more of your students pass, obviously there’s other factors going in, this is the interesting part that’s going on now. Now we share those instructional strategies. Now you’re working in collaboration with





other teachers, so you’re no longer on an island by yourself, but you’re collaborating as a result. So that mastery’s going to increase. Your students did better and now I’m going to try. I used the example of thirty to forty percent, but it could have been anything. So that’s why we’re doing more and more collaborations. So lots and lots of professional development. It’s required in order to make sure that our students and our teachers are always on the forefront of the changes in education, because we cannot just stand and deliver. Gone are those days. We, again, must collaborate as we are helping our students become critical thinkers.

	I:	How eager are students to learn today, when compared to how students were during the times that you were coming through school? Do you see that hunger for learning?

	S:	I think there are a lot of different pieces that we’re looking at. I think engagement is at a different level. We have so many competing factors. When we were growing up, it was education, and you may have some related activities. We talked about I would go out in the street and I would play these games and activities, and now we’re competing with technology and everything is quick, fast and in a hurry, so they have the YouTube videos, they have all of the information. They have the games and the technology has caused a shift in that particular process. So the engagement is there, but the way our students are coming in and what they are expecting, it has changed drastically, because everything they do has a quick and immediate response. And as we’re teaching, as educators, we have to figure out how to provide that same source of activity to keep the





mind stimulated so that it’s growing and wanting information. So I think the engagement is there, but it’s at a different level of engagement. I think students have a desire to excel, and I think they come with many, many different variables. And some are coming technology based, and some of them are coming and they want more real-world applications or opportunities. And as a part of another major shifting change, our students can now do all of their courses online. Or they may go to technical school and learn a particular trade while they’re in high school. Or they may decide they want to do Digital Motion and Design here at Booker High School. We have a beautiful facility. We also have a Visual Performing Arts program. We have a Law magnet program. And then we have Business programs in our C.T.E. And as a result, in the shift and changes that we have, students are now engaged more in a particular vehicle that will help them get towards their goal as it relates to their learning. So, that question is multi-faceted and there’s so many different variables so I can’t necessarily compare the kids to the opportunity from when I was teaching and what’s going on now because the opportunities are different, but it is our responsibility to keep up with the changes and make sure the biggest thing is choice and opportunities for our students.

	I:	Great time to break, the bell’s gonna ring. S:	Thank you for that.

	I:	Part two with Dr. Rachel Shelley. Dr. Shelley, what threats do you see in the years ahead for students?





	S:	I guess for me, the biggest thing would be social media. I don’t think our students truly understand the ramifications of their actions: their comments, their words, their behaviors, as it relates to things that they post, things that they say, as it relates to pictures, etc. My greatest fear is that they are going to do something, something that is going to be horrible for them or create a situation that’s going to make their life challenging, if not miserable. That is my thing. And another thing that naturally, as a mother, I am concerned about all of my students is not taking advantage of the opportunities that they have. It may not be college, yes our goal is college or career ready, but I’m just afraid sometimes that they do not take advantage of the opportunities, and there are so many as it relates to colleges and universities and junior colleges and community colleges. Or taking advantage of that career opportunity. More and more schools are offering programs where our students can not only graduate with a high school diploma, but they can have a career industry certification certificate, and we have one on our campus so it’s not just Microsoft, where I can go in and I can do Word or Excel and PowerPoint, but I now have a certificate where Microsoft says that I am certified. So I just want students, not only at Booker High School, but any students, take advantage of the opportunities that are presented to them. So again, it’s social media, and I believe that it can be used in a positive way, and I worry about the negative aspects when it comes to our students, and then I also want them to always take advantage of the opportunities. So those two things I do worry about. When we have opportunities, then sometimes that will eliminate the negative consequences that come from making negative choices. Students,





as individuals, it’s our responsibility, it’s our right, as educators to share this information. But students don’t have to decide on, “What am I going to do? What am I going to do? If I do this, here’s a consequence.” I want them to learn and have the necessary skills to think through that process and always think about never wondering at the end of the day, at the very end of the day, they are responsible for the choices that they make. Always, always. And there are a lot of opportunities. That is something that I’m concerned about.

	I:	How has this building construction project, the remodel, the rebuild, of Booker High School changed the school and changed this community?

	S:	I think when I look at this school aesthetically, the school is absolutely beautiful.



We have a college-like school. When it comes to the building, the bricks, the mortar, the technology, everything is absolutely amazing. The district, and I hate to say this, in my opinion, they spared no expense. They provided this wonderful, beautiful setting for our students. There’s no reason why they cannot learn or prosper in this particular environment. And this is the building. And I think that we have– I know that we have people that come from all over the country, just to see this wonderful facility. I also know when it comes to the community, it’s something they can take pride in, because we know the history of the Booker schools. So it’s something they can take pride in, but over and beyond from that, we can have a beautiful facility and we can take pride in that facility, but at the end of the day, the people they are our greatest resources. So we must find the best teachers and staff, members to place on this campus, to help our students aspire to be whatever it is that they can be. So I with the brick and the mortar and





the building, you must have the right teachers here. We recently had a professional development person come on our campus and by the way, we have a lot of people that come. They talk about the building. They do, but they also talk about something you can’t necessarily see and experience, you can. And that is the climate and culture of the school. And that’s because of the people. That is because of the people. People that are aligned to the vision that I shared with you. We cannot make the progress that we’re making here at Booker High School if it was not for our amazing teachers. And because of our amazing teachers and our administration team, then our students come and they wanna come. Our enrollment increased by twelve– I’m sorry, I believe it was one hundred and twenty students from last year to this year. We’re at one thousand, one hundred and fifty-eight students now as we speak. And this school is only built for twelve hundred. So we have less than sixty-two students before we may reach capacity. And if we stay here for a couple of years longer, then we’re able to build out– we have some vacant land that we didn’t build. But I do know it’s because of the school, it’s because of the building, and then the unique program offerings that we have. I mentioned earlier, we have the best V.P.A. program known throughout the world, Visual Performing Arts. And then we have our law academy, and now we’re adding on some other components as well. We have our C.T.E. departments, and things are going well. Our students can now not only earn a regular high school diploma, but now they can earn their AICE diploma as well. So now our students are getting the rigor that they need. That AICE diploma, remember when I talked about opportunities with my students?





The students who are taking advantage of that with Bright Futures, they can go and enter college and almost enter at the level of a sophomore or a junior at no expense. Yes, they need to work hard. Absolutely. So I think that building this stuff at school has transformed. We have new programs, new offerings. We were able to go back and add some components that we had when the school was here back in the [19]70s and the [19]80s. And also a part of the nineteenth and twenty first centuries as well. But when I became the principal here, for example our marching band now is back up and running, doing well. They’re going to competitions and shows and it’s just really interesting to see the school operate as a comprehensive high school. We have unique programs for all types of students. We are the most diversified high school in Sarasota with a third, a third, a third of our population, but we also have unique offerings for our students as well. And that I am very, very, very proud of. Our graduation rate is improving, it’s increasing, and my heart smiles when our students come back to visit. They went over and they are now serving in the armed services, or they were over in Hawaii, they’re back to visit, or they’re in a college university and come back, and that makes my heart smile. Or one of my young ladies that graduated last year, I ran into her mom this weekend, and she’s now the manager of a Little Caesar.

My hope for them is just to graduate college or career ready and do something productive. And when they come back, or they send an email or a text or something, “Dr. Shelley, I’m doing something productive with my life.” And I know it’s small but it really goes back to a belief system and that is what I think we do uniquely here. I think that’s what’s beginning to spread throughout the community





as well. We have more and more of our community members understanding that and knowing that it’s a part of the culture and environment here at Booker High School.

	I:	You’ve mentioned your major accomplishments. Do you want to mention any others before we wrap?

	S:	I think for me, it’s not just mentioning the wonderful opportunities that we have, or my personal accomplishments at Booker High School. I just want people to be able to come on our campus and see, feel, and experience what’s going on. We have a wonderful new foundation that’s up and running. I would love for our alumni to consider giving back to Booker High School. When I talk about college or career ready, all of our resources are aligned to that. For example, we offer, at no cost to our students, an opportunity for them to take and be prepared with

test-taking strategies. I know parents paying five, six hundred dollars for that. But we want our students to have an opportunity and it’s sometimes with those courses, it’s not about content, it’s about process. How can I take this test? What strategies can I use to maximize the possibility of me getting a higher score? And because my parents have always had those resources, I want to be able to provide those for our students, my staff and I. So if alumni will get together and support Booker High School through our foundation, and you can just google Booker High School here in Sarasota. Our website’s phenomenal, and we now have the foundation. I do want them to give back. Another area that I would love to have some support on, not necessarily an accomplishment, I’m always moving forward, and I want to be able to create a sustainable program. I want to start





another funding source for our students that are college bound or career bound that may not have that 3.0 GPA, and that’s where most of the college applications are looking for by way of scholarships. But what about those students that’s going to graduate with a 2.1 to a 2.9? They can still be successful and will, but they may need a little bit of help and resources. So with the Pell Grant and FAFSA and possibly looking at scholarship opportunities, I really want to set something up like that for our students because it’s all about the quality of life. We have a diversified school, but we also have a diversified community, society, and world. So you will have those students over here and you will have students here. But please help and consider helping Booker High School students have a better quality of life by helping with the resources and bringing that together so that we can give more opportunities to our student scholarships. So that is how I would like to wrap it up. Booker High School, we are a fully diversified school, where we have diversified options. Our ultimate goal is that our students will graduate college or career ready and become productive members of our society. From Booker Challenge to academic programs to rigor programs to the athletic program, we are Booker High School.

	I:	I gotta ask you though. What would you like to see change about the Newtown community and how do we get your Booker alums to come back to their hometown community and give back just as you did?

	S:	That’s a very, very good question and I’ll go with the first one. When we’re thinking about what we can do to change the community, honestly, I think it’s one student, one opportunity, one family at a time. I believe when we start investing in





our students, similar to what I mentioned here, and I mentioned Booker High School, but it’s not just Booker High School, but when we start investing in our students and investing in our families, I do believe that the quality of life is going to change. And once the quality of life is going to change, I believe that it’s going to be a change in the community. Let me give you an example. You take a first generation family, you have a family of five students or five children with a single mom. If you can get that one child off to college or that one child to a career, let’s pick the oldest child. What type of environment do you think he’s going to establish and set an example for the younger ones? Now perhaps he may not go to a major college or university, but if you just take courses, take college in Florida and he begins to see opportunities and with that education, I believe that he’s going to be a better example for his siblings. And now those siblings may not end up on a corner, they may not be running behind cars making poor choices, so I believe that is how you do it one student, one child, one family at a time and changing their quality of life, so they’re no longer as interested in all the poor choices. That is how I believe. But yes, there are some other things that we can do, bringing in more businesses, but if we don’t change the quality of life of the individual and the family, the businesses, they may not sustain themselves.

So I just believe that’s going to be the key thing and you do that through the families and the schools and the churches and any opportunities that we can afford to these students, bringing in more jobs and opportunities once they are prepared beyond high school. I think that’s going to change our Newtown community. I think that’s going to change a variety of communities, to be honest





with you. As it relates to alumni, I think we are on– we’re moving towards that now we have a program called “Talent for Tomorrow.” We’re trying to invest more in our students and getting them to come back to Sarasota and to have place of employment and have nice funding housing opportunities, and then things to do. Because our biggest thing is not for them coming back, but once they get back, what’s going to keep them here? And once they go off to college, are they doing things outside of Sarasota? They’re looking for those same experiences when they come back. Yes, their family will keep them connected, but what type of young adult activities do we have? What type of housing, affordable housing, do we have? So I think it’s more than just coming back. But coming back to what?

And as a city, it’s our responsibility to continuously think about that and I think we’re beginning to plant seeds. There’s a lot of housing development going on down in Newtown, I’m sorry, in our downtown area, and I think it’s going to contribute to that. So I see it bigger than that. I think they need to come back with things to do and opportunities.

	I:	Thank you so much.



	S:	Classrooms where they’re giving opportunities for speaking and reading and writing and listening, I think that’s all wonderful, but for me it’s always impromptu and it’s with a clear and precise expectation. We have a young lady here, Erica, for example. Erica will tell you that it’s not uncommon for me to be in a position and I will ask her for comment publicly. She’s shaking her head. And the reason why is because I do that intentionally because I want them to have an opportunity to speak in front of people. And I do that a lot. When I have guests and I have





visitors, and sometimes they know and sometimes they don’t. But I at least, in marginal settings, I share with all of them: You never know what’s going to happen, who’s going to be on campus with you or something. So small steps like that I think I’m taking, but I do that regularly with all of our students. So far, I don’t know what would happen if I put that student on the spot and I get a negative response, I haven’t seen that yet. [Laughter] But I still, I do, and I think that’s exciting. But we do try to make sure we give them opportunities.

	I:	Great. So what do you do for leisure? S:	I have a beautiful hot tub at my house. I:	Oh, okay.

	S:	Now, I will tell you, and I have to go back and finish that story, ‘cause I did buy that big house with that big pool idea. I did everything I wanted to do when I was in third grade. And I lived in that house with that big pool for about a year. And I did not want to clean it, I didn’t want to maintain it, so I sold it.

	I:	Oh.



	S:	And I downsized a little bit, and now we are still in a four bedroom house, two- story, and I have—it’s a community—and I have a very nice hot tub. I moved away from the pool—there’s a pool in the community—but I have a hot tub, and that’s my sanctuary. I enjoy my hot tub late in the evenings. I enjoy my quality time with my husband and my daughter. Now my daughter, my two kids. Love of my life. Love of my life. Someone said to me, “Tell me something that you’re most proud of.” Two things. And that was number one, just like you asked, I’m very, very proud of the school and all of that, but I’m also proud of my two





biological children. I grew up in an opportunity– or I grew up in a time where we did not have a lot. And just like I talked about my quality of life that I want for my students, I wanted my two biological children to have a really decent quality of life. So with my two little ones, I made sure that I was in a position where I can afford a lot of unique opportunities for them, and they took advantage of that. My son, he’s been to Spain, Claire has traveled all over the country. She’s been able to do that because of the opportunities that I had. And as a result, I’m very proud of them. Both of them are full-time, gifted, IQ’s 130, and they’re doing very well.

He’s a West Point grad, she’s finishing up at Pineview next year. He’s getting married, they’re doing very very good. What I’m not as proud of, when it comes to my two children, just like I was sharing with you about the students here, I raised my students to be independent and critical thinkers. Independent is good, critical thinking is okay. But when you put those two aspects together.

	I:	Dangerous.



	S:	Oh, is it dangerous?



	I:	Did you get one from that side of that shoulder to Kayla?



	S:	It is ever, Kayla, ever-so dangerous. Ever-so dangerous. Because she has my attitude, she has my mannerisms, and sometimes I get that back. I get that back. But, again, I never wanted my two children to be ‘yes’ people. I want them to be critical thinkers. If you say, “Do this.” “Well, why do I need to do that? I would like to do this instead. Can you explain to me why that’s so important?” And I raised them like that. But sometimes, “Because I said so!” [Laughter] No, I don’t. So





that’s interesting. So for me, and then I enjoy the hot tub at night, my favorite show that I like to watch is—

	I:	Okay, we’re done.



	S:	Nothing to do with my character, nothing to do with my character. I:	Oh, what is it?

[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:  Bianka Ramirez, September 19, 2018 Audit edited by:  Cristina Rodriguez, October 17, 2018 Final edit by:	Sandra Romero, November 6, 2020