AAHP 052; Ortiz; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 052 Paul Pedro Ortiz African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Steven Askins on June 11, 2009 1 hour, 23 minutes | 32 pages



Abstract: Paul Pedro Ortiz grew up in Houston, Texas in the 1940s and 1950s, and describes memories from his childhood, including various life lessons that he learned from climbing trees and other things, and how as a child he navigated Mexican- American identity in an area predominantly settled by Eastern European immigrants. He relates the influence that his grandmother had on his life, and the numerous jobs he took beginning in adolescence. He moves into his eventual entry into the US Marine Corps, discussing experiences in boot camp, and then in Okinawa, and the reasons why he never ended up in Vietnam itself during the war. He then describes his experiences in fighting for diversity in the workforce, including in the Puget Sound Naval Shipyard and as a federal Native American Outreach Coordinator in the state of Washington.





Keywords: [Houston, Texas; Latino History; Vietnam War]









































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 052

Interviewee: Paul Pedro Ortiz Interviewer: Steven Askins Date: June 11, 2009



	A:	Good afternoon. Thursday June 11th, this is Steven Askins and I am interviewing Mr. Paul Ortiz. How are you today?

	O:	Real good. Thank you.



	A:	Okay, so I’d like to start out with a couple questions about your childhood. I talked to your son, Dr. Ortiz here at the University of Florida, and he told me that you grew up in Houston, Texas, during the 1940’s and [19]50’s.

	O:	That’s correct.



	A:	Okay, and what was it like for Mexican-Americans in Houston, Texas, during the 1940’s and [19]50’s?

	O:	Well, there was a lot of segregation that I recall, we, we weren’t of the, not—the upper middle class, we were marginal middle class. We did have more items than the normal Latino families did in that area, by virtue of my father, working for the Southern Pacific Railroad Association system at that time in our lives, we were well-provided for, essentially with your daily items that were required, but the sad situation was that I recall—we lived in what they called the poor White segregated area. We were pretty fortunate, because we had people from, we had Anglos, but they were from Germany and from Poland, that they were not considered, I guess in the matter of speaking, they were considered poor White trash. But they were very friendly individuals that I remember growing up, in this particular neighborhood in Houston, Texas. We had a couple pecan trees in the backyard, and there was a street that’s not there no longer, it was called Jerald Street. And Jerald Street was a very friendly and outgoing area. Like I said it was





integrated, but it was not considered, like what we have now, where people can go from door to door. At that time it was, even though it was integrated, we were still separated, if you can understand that. We were, by virtue of ethnics, grouped. But we still were able to converse with our next door neighbors. Real friendly people from Poland that I remember and we just managed to survive in this particular street. Now going, I just went back, this last year in July, and it’s not there no more. It is the East-Tex Freeway, has been installed or built on this particular old street, and this freeway goes for miles and miles and miles. But from what I remember growing up in this particular little neighborhood, we had the corner grocery store, which was about two blocks away. Also, there was a Mexican bakery shop, about the same distance, the local barber shop, and of course within the markets, we had the butcher, and all the various essentials that we basically needed at that particular time in our lives. Now when I went down in July last year, all those establishments have since closed, but the buildings are still there. Isn’t it amazing that after more than 50-some years, or I’m going be 71 the end of this month on the 29th of this month. After all these years those buildings are still standing. And it’s just amazing. Now the Pecan trees that were in the backyard, gosh, they’re over a hundred feet—I would say, close to a hundred feet in height and everything. And I remember [Laughter] one day, while playing out in the back yard, I fell off one the branches off the Pecan Tree, and I remember crying and crying and my mother coming over there and comforting me and telling me I’m going to be all right it just you know, I’m just a bruised individual. And I kept thinking, gosh, I fell off that branch, you know, some day





I’m going be able to climb that tree again and I’m going overcome that fear. [Laughter] The amazing thing about it, now I’m looking, yep, last year when I went to see those trees, my god, they’re so tall, I thought, you know I’d be kind of crazy not to climb that tree or those trees now. But we were, I believe, if I’m not mistaken, we were in the third grade, when the principal send a letter to my parents, telling, informing my parents that they needed to get us some shoes. We had been going to school barefooted for up until I was in the third grade. And there was—it’d be raining and cold, and sometimes a little snow or ice and we’d still be going barefooted. Well anyways, my father, from the old country, from Mexico, he said well if they want the kids to wear shoes or have shoes, let them, let the school system purchase the shoes. Anyway pressure was applied, to my father and he eventually got us a pair of shoes, and it was very strange to be wearing shoes because in all the years, throughout all these years we went barefooted, and we had us some pretty tough, skin. I mean it was, and you never—and we didn’t think too much about it. I mean, we thought it was just normal just going barefooted, I mean you know just, just… and walking to school it was at least, I would say at least eight blocks away. It wasn’t too bad of a walk except when it was cold and it’d be raining and everything. And another thing that was very embarrassing I remember was because my father had these old customs and traditions from the old country, was he didn’t believe in purchasing bread or you know like cold cuts, like the other students. The other Latino students had bread, and had you know like bologna, or pressed ham or hot dogs, something of the American cultural method of consuming, the consumer type.





And so we were just with tortillas and beans, and they would roll up the the beans inside the tortillas, in like the little taco type, and so that was what we took. And so I used to, I was quite embarrassed. I remember, in the third grade, that I would hide my tortilla, as I would eat my lunch. We all had to eat our lunch together and the teacher would sit at the head of the table, and there was three or four tables and all the students would face one another and they all be, well making fun out of me because I was the only one with tortillas, I mean you know, and I thought, gosh. Anyway it took, I don’t know how long before we had bread purchasing in that home, but it was, at first it was kind of embarrassing, but now- a-days I would have been proud, you know, taking tortillas [Laughter] to work or any recreation facility, here locally. I would’ve been proud now. And it’s great that I remember this cause, it kind of make you humble to recall some of the ups and downs of your personal life as you grow into this cultural, of the new America. But I felt… uncomfortable at that particular time in my life as a little guy, but you know growing up, I started, I acquired English, the terminology of the English language, very quickly. And so, I was able to help my siblings, and my parents, and some of the other young people that were having problems with their English and their math. In fact, I can recall as we left from Jerald Street and went on to, Jerald Street was considered the North side of Houston at that time, we went from the North side, we went over to the Fifth Ward. The Fifth Ward was a lot more… Latino, segregated area and the Fifth Ward was basically, a lot of, a lot of the guys, a lot of gang members in the Fifth Ward, I remember. And I quickly got stopped one day, and I was told that you know, hey, you don’t belong here. And I





said well we live over here, we are, my father’s renting a house over here. So it took a little while for them to adjust to me being the new kid on the block you might say. And it took, it took a lot of diplomacy, and what really helped was that I was able to help some of the gang members with their English and with their math and with some of the other subjects they were having problems with. And so I was quickly accepted in the sense, and I was so grateful for that, and then that also made it a lot easier for my other siblings. There was six of us, I have three other brothers and two sisters, the sisters are younger than the brothers, and we’re all a year apart. And, it really helped for them to get established in that little community. Now we didn’t last too long in that, in the Fifth Ward. We eventually moved over to another section of—it was still considered the North side, and so we moved into this one particular neighborhood, and there was a, a Fulton Street now and it was a real nice neighborhood. Again it was integrated, and even to this day, when I went last year to see the old neighborhood I could not believe the changes that had taken place. My brother took me to the house that I had lived in before I was told to depart from it, and it has changed dramatically. The trees had grown; they had put a fence in the front, shrubs had been placed at what used to be just barren ground, and it was kind of like a semi- jungle, but it beautifully, architect of yard work. I mean I was really amazed, but it didn’t look like the old house that I had lived in. And there was, it was kind of emotional for me at that particular time. So many changes in Houston, and like I said, I hadn’t been to Houston in over fifty years. And the reason I went down to Houston was to see my mother who I hadn’t seen in fifty years. So it was very





emotional for all of us. And so it was nice to meet new brothers that I had never met before in my life. I should back track. My mother and father got divorced when I was nine years of age. There were six of us. The first family, and then my mother went on to have six other boys, and out of those six boys, one passed away that I was informed last year, and one is missing. So, I have these other, I guess you might consider them half-brothers in the sense. But it’s the same mother. And so, since then I have called all the three brothers that I’ve come to know through the telephone, and one doesn’t talk too much on the—in fact he doesn’t even talk at all on the telephone because he’s having some medical problems, a drug problems, but that’s one of those issues we all face and each and each family has a certain situation of this nature. My mother, I’ve come to know my mother more so now through the telephone, and she’s requested that next time that I visit her, that I spend more quality time with her instead of just visiting her for a few hours this past July. Most of the time I spent with my brother in San Antonio, the one that came to visit me here in Bremerton, Washington, back in [19]67. And so, seems like I’m more close to him all these years, than I was to my mother or to my other siblings. I’m trying to change that, and so I’m making more of an effort to talk to my mother at least once a week on the telephone and get to know her through our conversations and catching up on from what happened in the past and up to the present. And we’re doing a much better job now at communicating, and even though she sometimes dwell on some of the negative aspects of life, I try to move away from that and think on the positive terms. We all have had some negative aspects in our personal lives in





the past we try to change, and we can overcome all of this negativeness. What I’m trying to do now is get close to my mother than I have ever have in the past. And by virtue of doing so, I have been introduced to some of my other relatives in that area. My cousin Pauline, who lives in Baytown, Texas, who lives, I think it’s about maybe forty minutes or an hour away from my mother, and I had not seen this particular cousin in over sixty years, but I’ve been able to talk to her on the telephone and we’ve been able to correspond by mail. So that’s been another blessing for myself, that I have other relatives. And then her siblings have also communicated in the sense, so I feel very blessed and grateful for the opportunity that I’ve had with the phone and with the cell phone learning more about my background—my cultural. And then I’ll zip on up to when I went into the military. I should retract back—when I was fourteen years of age, my father, because of his… alcohol problem, asked me to depart from the house in so many words and I said, he wanted—he had gotten me a job when I was going to the junior high school, at that particular time in my personal life, and he had asked me that he wanted my $18 that I made per week, and I refused to give it to him, cause I knew that if I gave him that $18 back in the mid-50’s that he would go out there and buy beer with it. And enjoy it with his comrades from the revolution era, from Mexico. And most of those individuals had come across, into the United States, starting back in 1911, and they had made a home here in the United States, and never went back. And I thought, I am not going to give him my $18. [Laughter] It was a principle, so anyway, needless to say, he asked me to depart from the home in so many words. And I left with what I had on my back, and I





have never looked back. I have learned so much being on my own but, when I was looking around for work, and I was fourteen and a half I believe, and I was looking around for in work in Houston, Texas, I ran into my Uncle Joe Martinez. Joe Martinez was one my favorite uncles, and so he asked me where I was living and I said, well I don’t have no place to live, I live out in the street, Joe. He said, well why don’t you go back and live with Grandmother? I had lived with Grandmother when I was nine years of age up until I was about twelve years of age. And she was a very strict individual, but I respected that, and I needed someone with a strong discipline problem, [Laughter] I mean to coach me. To get rid of some my negative problems, you might say. And so she was a good influence on my personal live and so at that time, between nine and twelve, my mother had gotten a divorce and she had gotten custody of us children, custody of the house and the property, and so she was living on Jerald Street, in North side of Houston. Well I was still living with my grandmother in what they call a Bonita Garden. In English it’s a “Beautiful Garden.” It was a place of integration, you might say, because on one side of the track we had all the Latinos, and on the other side of the track we had all the African-Americans. And so we all had our certain boundaries, so we all respected each other’s boundaries, you know. You don’t go on the other side of the tracks, that’s a no-no. All right, so be it. And so that’s how I grew up, and my Grandmother gave me so many chores that I never had time to play or get acquainted with neighborhood kids or to go out and enjoy baseball or whatever other else, whatever other sport we might have had at that particular time in the mid-[19]50s. And so even to this day I’m not too





much into sports. I’ve always been geared to work and labor, and I feel more comfortable in doing that. I guess it’s because of the upbringing. But I feel comfortable and I love it. I love working out in the yard, I love the working up a sweat. It makes you feel good that you have accomplished something for this particular day. And so I went to live with Grandma, and between fourteen and a half up until I was close to seventeen, and in the meantime, I was working at the Greek restaurant where my Uncle Joe had gotten me a position. And I was doing real well, I went from bus boy all the way up to what they call a food checker. And again this was a Greek restaurant that hired only Latinos, and so because of my English ability, I got various different promotions within the bus boy area and then eventually to the food checker position. And the reason was that this food checker position was—the young man that had it was also named Paul, and he was going away to college, and he recommended me to fulfill his position after he was gone. So I got this position and I was able to receive orders from the waiters or waitresses and them translate them over to the chef, and then he would prepare the meals and my job was to make sure that the dishes were properly wiped and properly covered, and then ring for the waiter or the waitress through this audio system that we had. And at the same time I was in charge of ordering ice cream and also I was over the pantry person who made various pies like Boston Cream Pie or various cakes. I was in a good position and I enjoyed it, I really enjoyed that, but my Grandmother thought that I was getting to be, in her words, a wise punk. So she said, you need to go and join the Marines Corps, they’ll knock some of the stuff out of you Paul. And I thought all right Grandma,





you know, I thought she’s probably just jiving with me. So I joined the Marine Corps and at that time I thought that my Grandmother was my legal guardian, but technically my father and my mother were still considered my legal guardians. So I had to go see each of them individually, and they reluctantly signed my papers to release me for military service. And I remember my mother saying, is this what you want Paul? And I said, yes, Mom, this is what I want. And I remember my father, saying I don’t want to sign this. And I said, just go ahead and sign it because I want to leave Houston. And I couldn’t care less what he thought at that time. And so you know when you’re a teenager you kind of rebel against certain members of your immediately family? And so I thought, man I’m gonna be somebody. The Marine Corps at that time, I thought, oh my God, what did I get myself into? Because at that time they were physically abusing the recruits. And I remember, I was, I went through my Marine Corps boot camp training in the West Coast. Well over in the East Coast at that same time, there were I think either the twelve or thirteen recruits, they got drowned in Paris Island. It really, it made headlines, the drunken DI’s came in and just took these young kids out into the swamp, and again like I said between twelve and thirteen got drowned. And it really made a lot of people aware that there was a physically abuse going on in the Marine Corps at that particular time, in the [19]50’s. And so there was a Congressional investigation, and that went over into the West Coast, too. And I was in boot camp then, and we had senators and congressmen come over and question us. Of course we were told that if we said anything negative, that after they were gone, that we would get the blunt. So we all kept our mouths shut, but





it got a little easier. Of course this was at the very end of our training, so it wasn’t that bad. We had already endured the more brutal, aspect of boot camp training. And so, but I remember that there was a Native American and myself. We were the only ethnic members of the company and anything that happened, we both got in trouble. All the time, we were always together, we got in trouble together, and basically we didn’t say anything. In fact that was the thing that was brought up at the end of, when we got our certificate of completion, that the drill instructors said we were the only two people that everybody feared. They thought that we were going to come in at night and do some killing. [Laughter] But we kept our mouths shut, and we did what we were told, and we didn’t associate with nobody except he and I. And this was before—well this was during the Civil Rights Era you might say, the start of it. And we endured you might say. And whenever they wanted something done that the other Anglos couldn’t perform or do, they would send for him and I. And to this day, I cannot remember this guy’s name, and it’s been bugging me all these years. And I would like to know where he’s at at this moment. Hopefully he’s still alive. But he was a good Native American friend. And anyway, they tried to break us. I mean at that time, you had to stand at attention. They would hit you and I remember my grandmother always told me, always look people straight in the eye, you know, in the face. Don’t ever back down. And they tried, they tried everything they could to break us. They never could and I felt very good about this advice that my grandmother had given me, and I endured. But in the evening when I was by myself, I was on my knees praying, [Laughter] —at that time I was a Catholic and I’d be praying to the virgin





of the North American continent, Virgin Guadeloupe, and I’d say, “Oh Guadeloupe, virgin, please help me, I need help. I mean spiritually, physically, mentally, emotionally help, please!” But you know, years later, you think about that, you know we all endured some hardship in our past, and we have accomplished so much in our past, and we can look forward to the future. And so even to this day, I feel very honored and privileged to have served for my country and the accomplishments that I’ve done and completed and for my children and my grandchildren. I feel like at times it’s been like a rollercoaster, but we can overcome all these little negative aspects and just keep on— well I guess, “Keep on trucking,” I guess, the term. [Laughter] But it’s been a good life, and right now I’m recovering from a hamstring injury done to my right leg, because I was doing some heavy lifting. Even though I was doing it properly—and again I was helping some dear friends of ours, and I—it was just too much apparently, and I’m not as young as I thought I was. My body feels like it’s still young, but the mind [Laughter], sometimes can undercompensate for that. But I went on, after I got out of the Marine Corps, I went—Oh by the way, I forgot to mention that while I was working as a bus boy, back in the mid-[19]50s, and I even mentioned this to my son, and I Fidel Castro in Houston, Texas. He came into our restaurant looking for volunteers to overcome Batista, who was the dictator at that time in Cuba, and he came in with all his lieutenants and soldiers of fortune, and with his fatigues, and his .45 strapped on his side. I raised my hand, I said I’d be glad to go out there and fight for your cause, Fidel. He looked at me and I was kind of scrawny at that time for a fifteen-year-old kid I guess, and he said, no, you’re too





young, you’re know scrawny little guy. [Laughter] And you know years later when I was in the Marine Corps, we were supposed to make an invasion of Cuba and take, take it away from Fidel. But you know, history is amazing, you know what transpires in our country, and politics and what have you, years later. But we never made that landing, never made that landing but I was all prepared and ready to go, fight for our country. And even to this day, Fidel has stepped down and his brother’s taken over and so be it. Getting back to my personal life, after I got out of the Marine Corps, I went back to Houston, and things hadn’t changed at all. I had sent all my money from my two years, while I was in the Marine Corps, to my grandmother for safe keeping. Well she had spent it all. So eighteen days later after I’d gotten out of the Marine Corps, I thought dog gone it. I’ve got to make some money. And so I started working again, and again Uncle Joe came to my rescue and got me another job at a wholesale florist. Plus I was working at the same restaurant that I had left previously. It was a good two jobs of labor, and it was good living, but it was just constantly go, go, go, go, go. And I kept thinking, golly, there’s got to be something more to this. And so I went back into the Marine Corps for one year, because—and for this one particular year, that was when we were supposed to have made that landing in Cuba. And instead of going to Cuba, they sent me over to Okinawa. And it was a good learning experience, because this was at the late [19]50’s, and the Marines were being sent down to Vietnam. And so at that time I thought, all right, here I am, eighteen and a half going on nineteen, maybe I’ll make some, I’ll get some medals for going to Vietnam. ‘Cause I only had one or two little medals, and I





thought, you know this is ridiculous. And all these other young guys had all kinds of medals on their breast. You know in the military you have all these medals are put on your left side of your body, and I thought—they’re worn very proudly and everything, and I thought, gosh I want to be a gun ho person, too you, know. So I thought all right, and I got assigned to a medical battalion, just like a M.A.S.H. unit in the Army, it’s a medical unit, and I was a communicator from the Marine Corps attached to the Navy unit. And I would go talk to the Colonel , I would you know, we’d just talk like two individuals, and I would ask him, sir, I want to go to Vietnam, and he says, Ortiz, I’m not going sign those papers. “But sir.” And we would talk about Mexican food, and that was one thing, we had something in common, but when the conversation came around to, why won’t you sign my papers to go to Vietnam? “Ortiz I’m going to do you a favor, this way you’ll be in your right faculties someday in your life. And I could hear those Marines that were going to Vietnam, they would run every morning for five miles, and they were on their way to Vietnam, and I kept thinking, God, I’m missing out on something in this life. And I’d go, and we would have typhoons in Okinawa and I would go out with the medical units and set up communication between our unit and the Marine Corps base. And I kept thinking, gosh, I want to go to Vietnam.

Well it never happened. And then years later, I would hear stories from these veterans from Vietnam, and got they were—God they were having all kinds of health problems. And I kept thinking, well maybe that colonel done something right for me, by not signing those papers, even though I don’t have those medals that I thought I was going to have, and I didn’t kill no one, I thought I was going to





endure, and battle fatigue, and I thought he must done something right, you know. Here I, all these years I have been thinking I’d missed out on some part of my personal life by not going to war. Well, and I would, like I said, I would see these individuals with their personal health issues and I thought, you know the creator must have, saw that I needed to be away from all of this hostility, war time, and so even to this day, I’m very grateful and thankful for that colonel’s decision not to send me to Vietnam. And so after a year, I got sent back home and things hadn’t changed at all back home in Houston, Texas. So I decided, well Paul, I’m going turn right around and see if I can go into the military, so I tried the Army and they said, well no, you’re not what were looking for. And I thought, well I’ll go ahead and try the Navy, and they Navy said, yeah we’ll take you! And so within the matter of several weeks I was in the Navy. I was going to Navy boot camp. I thought San Diego again. It was right across from the Marine Corps training facility, and we were told when I was in the Marine Corps, if you guys go over the hill which, is you know you desert and go over that hill, those guys over in the Navy will beat you guys up, you know, they’ll, they don’t like deserters from the Marine Corps. And when I was in the Navy, there was the reverse psychology on that, if you go over that other side, those Marine Corps dudes are going to kick the hell out of you. I said oh no, I mean, and I head this story before. But anyway, the Navy boot camp was so easy, gosh I could not believe, there was no physical abuse, and I was made Master of Arms, which is like the police department within the Navy. So my job was to keep people from fighting, and you cannot believe how many—at this time civil rights was really





moving strong, and there was a lot of people from the South that did not care for the African Americans or the other ethnic races. And my job—I’m only five foot six, and I had to separate these guys that were over six feet, but because of my title, Master of Arms, everybody backed me up. And so I broke up a lot of fights, and I felt very calm at what I was doing. And years later I kept thinking, God, I could have gotten clobbered so easy by four or five those guys jumping on me at the same time, but I had a lot of authority, and I felt quite honored to have this position. And we did accomplish quite a bit. I did get to stop a lot the fist fights, a lot of the verbal confrontation before it escalated, and I felt I was doing something for the unit or for the company itself. And so I, again I excelled in the Navy, and I went on and completed my four years while going through my training, after I came out of boot camp, I came up to the Northwest here in Bremerton, Washington, where I’m living now. And I met my first wife, my late wife, who’s Paul’s mom, and she and I would walk downtown Bremerton, and I could not believe there was no hostility. I could walk with an Anglo-Saxon woman down on Main Street Bremerton and not get harassed for walking with a White woman.

And so she was Protestant and I was Catholic, and we had gotten married, we got married through the Civil Court. And so she wanted to have it blessed by the church. So I went to the Navy Chaplin, and he said, no, you have to go back to Houston, Texas. I went to the city of Bremerton, the Catholic church here in Bremerton, and they said no, you have to go back to the church that you belong to in Houston, Texas. And I thought, oh no, so I told Johnine, my late wife, and we both agreed that we would go back to Houston. And then as soon as we got





out of the plane in Houston, Texas, the first thing I heard was, look there’s a Mexican with a White woman. Then I thought, oh no, I forgot about the segregation, [Laughter] anyway, even my grandmother and my aunts said, oh, we don’t want her here in this house, Paul. I said well, she’s my wife you know. “Well why didn’t you marry one of your own kind?” And so that’s all I heard. And so we were there for one week so that she could get her Catechism instructions so that we could get married in the Catholic faith, and as soon as that got completed, we came back to Bremerton, Washington. And I never went back— this was in 1963, and I thought, I will never go back to Houston, because they treated us real bad. Towards the very last day I was there, Uncle Joe came and he said, gosh Paul, if I’d have known you were here, you would have stayed with us, and you would have been in a lot better atmosphere. And I said, I’m sorry Joe that I didn’t inform you, I wasn’t aware that you were still here. I’m sorry that we’d made some mistakes. Staying with Grandmother, we should have stayed with you, but it was too late. And anyway, they treated us and took us to the airport, and it was a real nice farewell session that we had shared with he and I and our spouses, and I kept thinking, I’ll never come back to Houston. Anyway I didn’t come back until last year when I went to visit my mother and my other siblings.

And it was, there was a lot of negativeness, that I thought well here in Bremerton, Washington, it’s such a pleasant atmosphere. So much can be accomplished here, with all this integration and segregation that was happening in the South in the [19]50’s and [19]60’s. And I felt so good to just live here, and so I decided to just stay here. And I got out of the Navy; I was stationed in Norfolk, Virginia. And





that’s where Paul was born at, in Norfolk, Virginia, in [19]’64. And so we came back to Bremerton, Washington, and my first job was working form Banger, it’s a submarine base. At that time, in [19]76—no I take it back, [19]67, let me retract that. In [19]67 when I got out, my first job was working at Banger, it was—no it was [19]66, November. My first job was on Thanksgiving Day in [19]66 and working at Banger, and we were unloading ammo to be sent to Vietnam. And so, I worked there for about two and a half months, and in January 25, 1967, I got my first job at P.S.N.S, Puget Sound Naval Shipyard. And I went on to stay there for thirty years, and I retired in 1996. And while I was at P.S.N.S, I got involved towards, back in the [19]84, around [19]84 I started getting involved with the Hispanic Subcommittee Organization. And that was to support Latinos to get ahead in their career through civil service, and prior to that I had been involved in PTA. My present wife and I, Sharron Ortiz, we we got involved in PTA by virtue of our children and so I was drawing posters for the various classes and also the popcorn person and we just really got involved in PTA. And then when I got into my civil service career, when I first got there, a lot of the Anglos would not even speak to me or help me. Because it still was a little segregated. I was the first Latino working in Public Works, Shop 03, in [19]67. And so my foreman would come around and ask me, well what did you learn today, Ortiz? I said, I didn’t learn nothing, and nobody wants to talk to me. Nobody wants to instruct me as to what I was supposed to do, they just kind of give me looks and they go about their way. And so it took months and months before they started giving me instructions, I guess because upper management probably told them, they better





start teaching me something. So anyway I started learning and learning, and this was the same for the power plant, this was the same type of position I had worked at while I was in the Navy—a boiler technician. And so I enjoyed my job, it was a hot, humid climate area, it was always warm cause you’re heating oil to produce steam inside of the boiler. And so that heat radiates right through the metal and everything, even though there’s insulation around the boilers, you still have a lot of heat that’s radiated on the surface of the units, and so we had various, let’s see we, had one, two, three—we had six boilers in this one huge building. And so all that heat is just radiated out, in, back, top. And so we had to check the top of the boilers, around the boilers, on the side of the boilers and we had to use a special shields to keep us from getting burned. Safety precautions, we all wore safety glasses and ear plugs—casued an enormous amount of noise keeping those what they call an induce fans and exhaust fans running twenty- four/seven, constantly, constantly. And then on the weekends we would have to change burners, and these burners were bout, five feet in length, and they were a little heavy. It was just like putting shells into a cannon, and so it was [Laughter] it was a bit of informal sessions, and we all had to do it as quickly as possible without getting burned, and if you didn’t tighten it tight down on these valves, the oil would seep out through the side of the, and really burn you. Because the oil had to be heated at 250° Fahrenheit to ignite on contact inside the fire box. It was an interesting occupation, and I enjoyed it. And I managed to work my way to various departments in that building, eventually. And in fact I was one of the last boiler plant operators when that old building was closed down, and the new





power plant was built on the other end of the shipyard. And so we went from burning bunker six, crude oil, to what they considered JP-5, which is a real fine, light weight diesel fuel. And it burns readily and even hotter, but without the use of what they call pre-heaters. We were using up the last of the old grade six fuel, which is a real heavy petroleum product. It hasn’t been refined yet. And so we were using that up because all the military vessels were going either into nuclear or into JP-5 fuel. Everything was being converted. And so we were just burning up the last of this bunker six grade oil. Which I believe we did accomplish that.

And then I got involved with the—again I like I said earlier— theHispanic Subcommittee, and I went through the whole ranks, up to Chairmanship. In the meantime, every year from [19]84 up until the early [19]90s I was the one that drew the posters for the banquet that we had once a year. In fact, I also got involved with putting out the menus, what we were going to consume in really nice format. And then what they would do is, the Navy would copy all of this and put it into real nice paper out—I mean you know, lettering. And it was a real nice art that I thought was real nice. And nobody wanted to do it, so I just took over, and so I did all the art for the Hispanic Subcommittee. And I really enjoyed it, too. And we had various distinguished Latinos would come to talk to us as federal Civil Service employees from Washington, D.C., and from around the nation. And I felt very comfortable, but then I started making waves by suggesting that we invite Puerto Ricans, and Cubans, and South American Latinos, because my manager, my boss said that we were only for Mexican-Americans, and I said well, this is supposed to be a Hispanic Subcommittee. We’re supposed to have





members of other Latino ethnic groups other than just Mexican Americans, and he said, “No, no, no, Mexican Americans are the Cadillac of the Latinos,” and I said, “No we’re not. Some of these Puerto Ricans and Cubans, they can speak three or four different dialects, where we only are just bilingual, I mean, we have to have more other ethnic members other than Mexicans.” And boy, well anyway I got demoted, and I kept getting demoted and finally I was told to leave the organization. And I thought all right, so be it. But I would still be called to draw, and to help with the functions whenever they needed someone to draw up some menus or some posters. And so I felt still, I felt quite honored and everything, and then eventually I was let go. Then there was a calling for a Native American Program Manager, within the Equal Employment Opportunity Program, and so I thought I’ll go ahead and submit my application, and there was a couple other Native Americans, and these were, some were from the reservation, but they were still Civil Service employees. Well out of four, I got selected. And of course again I had a—because I was now the Program Manager, I had something, I had a little pull you might say. And I had a secretary, and I thought we did quite a bit of good in the community. My job was to go into the community and talk to other off-reservation and reservation Native American organizations and tribes. Well, it didn’t go as good as I had planned at first. Here I thought, you know, man I’m going do good and everything. For about a year, nobody would talk to me. And I thought, what is going on? And then someone came up to me and says, well you work for the federal government. I said, yes sir, I do. And so, any federal employee, the Native Americans don’t trust. And you might as well keep your





mouth shut, and if you want to continue, go ahead and continue coming to these functions. But nobody will talk to you; they will not ask you to speak. You’re just a, well a guest I guess in the sense. And I felt kind of bad. I thought all right, and even I would report to the shipyard and say, well I haven’t made no progress and eventually after about eight months they asked me, well why don’t you just quit going to these functions, Paul? And I said, no, it’s the principle. I’m going to continue going to these functions, they’re not going to intimidate me. And I kept on going, and going, and they kept asking me and telling me, Paul you just have to drop out. And I thought, no, I’m not going to drop out. I was sitting, I remember sitting at a dinner function, and they were all talking and everything, and all of a sudden, four people came over and they started hugging me. And I thought, “What is going on?” I finally got accepted, because they all thought that since I was a federal worker that I would eventually give up and just call it quits. But I was stubborn enough to hang in there, and I was so glad I was. I became a board member of the Kitsap County Indian Center and I became the treasurer, and then I started helping out the off-reservation Native Americans. The Tribal person in charge of the off-reservation Native Americans, he or she would go up to Olympia, which is our capital here in the state of Washington. And it’s about sixty miles away or more. That’s where Paul got his bachelor of arts degree, in Evergreen State College. And we would go there, and we would get all kinds of commodities for the Native Americans here in Bremerton. But no one wanted to help us. So I would do all the heavy lifting, and we would sign the various documentation that we had to sign for all these commodities that we were





receiving. And then we would go to the various stores, and we would get day-old bread, and people were, Safeway, Albertson’s and Fred Myers, they were very nice about giving us a lot of the leftover, and day-old breads, and cinnamon rolls and such. And so we were quite honored to receive all of this, but it would, it would entail us to go and get this, bodily, manually ourselves. And a lot of the people that we were giving these commodities to just flat refused to help us. So it put a lot of strain on the person in charge as well as myself. Because we did all the heavy lifting and we did all the running around locally to get these food items. But I still felt like it was needed to be done, and for these people that were on welfare, and were elderly and handicapped. So we provided a food bank in the sense, and then not only that, but there this location that we used. It was a garage, but the house that we were using was one of the owners was giving it rent-free to us Native Americans to use as a Native American store, at which artifacts were sold from this particular home. And it was a real nice place, but there was some older Native Americans that did a lot of bead work and a lot of other Native American artifacts, and they were able to sell make a little profit for themselves at no cost, rent-free to all of us. And it was a tremendous blessing, and so we kept at it and everything. But then, for some unknown reason, like every organization that I’ve joined, there’s all chiefs, but no Indians. So nobody wanted to do the labor. And I kept telling them, well although I’m retired at this moment, I can only do so much, but we need to have people do this, people to do that. We have to sign people, and people that we would assign all these obligations to didn’t come forth. Even though they would say, you know, lip





service is cheap. You know but the manual, when you came down to it, they just didn’t want to perform. They thought you know, well this should be done for me, you know I’m this or that, you know I’m entitled to have this without no labor involved. It’s supposed to be given to me. And so eventually, I had to terminate my board membership, cause nobody wanted to help. And so I made sure that, since I was the treasury, I made sure that everything was brought up to date, and I had even asked my wife Sharron, I said, I need to get a couple hundred dollars to kind of make ends meet, because the electricity, and the water bill, even though we were not paying rent at this particular residential home, we still had to pay utilities. And so we went out on a limb to pay these utilities and to make sure I had zero balance when I terminated my membership. I did not want to leave with owing anything to nobody or to the council. And so I chose to do that, and I left in good faith, and after I left, seems like it was just a matter of months and then everybody just folded. It was a real sad situation. They lost that home, the owner decided that he wanted the home so he could make money off the home, and so he just terminated the lease on the Native American Council. Before then, we had been able to hold pow-wows, local pow-wows. Everything was going real good. But again, a lot of people felt like they did not want to contribute. They wanted to participate, but they did not want to contribute to the labor of the organization. And so it was a sad situation. But anyway, at least I got the privilege of knowing quite a few of these individuals and helping to the best of my ability. I went on again, I felt like, what we did was for the good of the community and met a lot of good people in the organization, but again there was a lot of





people that felt like they were entitled to all these benefits instead of laboring for them. I felt like, well from where I was coming from, we all had to labor for everything that we had received or gotten. Nothing came free. And so I felt like my termination of my membership was for the best and even then I got involved in some of the off-community projects here in the city of Bremerton. I am now, at the moment, the Neighborhood Block Watch Captain, and we have tried to relieve the neighborhood of certain drug problems, which is a standard, norm for this day in age. We we have passed what they call a noise ordinance here in the Bremerton area, so that we have an outlet for in the event that we get involved in some loud parties that would go on. We have the authorization to call the police department; we got access to the law enforcement various agencies that take care of various different areas within the agency. And so we’ve been honored to have these, and to have a council person come over and give us talks on how best to handle these so-called nuisance ordinance. And so we are quite happy with everything that has happened, and I feel like in my personal life that I have accomplished quite a bit, and I still have quite more to go and to take of. I’ve gotten various different awards from the military, from the Marines Corps, from the Navy, from the Puget Sound Naval Shipyard, from the various organizations that I have belonged to. That if I had not ventured out from Houston, Texas, I probably wouldn’t have been able to accomplish these items, individual awards. And so it’s given me a better perspective on the outlook of life. I’ve been able to, even locally; I’ve been able to join the, what they call the Medicine Wheel, which is a Native American religious order. And I’ve been able to participate and been





able to go to various different pow-wows and get accepted by the indigenous individuals locally, and so that’s been quite an honor, and we’re getting ready to

—the pow-wows are coming around again, and so I’m looking forward to going to some of them. We have a various organizations here like the main one we have here is Chief Seattle. We’ve gone to his grave site, we’ve gone to his what they call a long house. Here in the Northwest, the Native Americans lived like in a little community, all together under one roof. And so they were called long houses.

And so you would have about maybe ten families living under one roof, and they would all get together, and they all had different assignments to perform and functions to do and what have you. And so various different traditions that they have here in the Northwest. We are honored to be able to just look back on what has to be done, what has been done, what has to be done. And so we feel like the sky’s the limit in a sense [Laughter]. Whenever I see an eagle from the East, it’s a tremendous blessing for me. That’s a tradition, like the creator on the flight of the wings of an eagle, in that scripture. And so it’s a great honor to see an eagle flying in the East. And then when I’ve been helping some other people out in the farming community, I’ve run across, in my walks here just a couple months ago, I was able to see three eagles, and I kept thinking, now that is truly scripture. I mean you’ve got the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit. And I thought, wow, I’m getting a blessing today. It’s been a good life for me. I cannot complain. I’ve had my ups and downs, but I went on to have a beautiful son and an attractive daughter, that’s been a great contribution to my personal life. And their accomplishments. And my late wife, she taught me a lot because growing





up, we were never instructed on thank you notes, Christmas cards, or the proper etiquettes, and so I’ve learned so much, how to handle myself, how to present myself, and it wasn’t easy, I was a stubborn individual, and I’ll be the first to admit that. It took me many, many months, sometimes years to get over this macho bit, because Latinos got this macho aura around us. That no one’s going tell us what to do, or no female’s going tell us how to behave ourselves, but I’ve been extremely patient and understanding I’ve learned so much from all of my mistakes. And I’m still learning, and even my little granddaughter, my youngest granddaughter still reminds me, you know, grandpa that’s not the proper English terminology for that particular subject. So I’m still learning, and it’s amazing that even though I’ll be 71 in a few more days, I’m still learning, and that really is the object—I should say the objective of my personal life continued to learn with each passing day. Learn as much as you can, and it just makes you feel good, you know. And I’m looking out. I’m out here in the front of my deck, and I’m looking at all the various green shrubs and trees and bushes and all the various different color flowers, and it just gives you a real good feeling to be alive in this day in age. And to be in good health, and continue to be in good health. Just a good spiritual life, and it just gives you a real good feeling, and I feel like there’s still more to be accomplished. And I’m looking forward to the various different times that I will have with my children and grandchildren, and I don’t know whether Paul’s mentioned to you, but I’ll be going down to Gainesville, I’ll be down there sometime in September, the seventeenth, I believe. The sixteenth or the seventeenth of September, I’ll be down there. It’ll be nice to meet you Steve,





personally. But anyway, just to roam around the campus, meet new acquaintances, just like it was when Paul was teaching in Santa Cruz. I met a lot of the professors and students in Santa Cruz, and we roam around the beach, and around the campus, and we just met a lot of people, just from different walks of life, different ethnic races, and it was just very, emotionally, and educationally, and I feel quite honored to have been involved in this. And I’m still learning. Now we have, well it’s semi-clear today, it’s a little overcast, and it’s so neat to see these various birds flying around, the different species, and it’s just great to be alive in this time of my personal life, and just—any more questions that you care to ask me, Steve?

	A:	No, I think, you’ve actually—I had a list of questions, and you’ve ran down every single one of them. [Laughter] I’ve introduced you, and that was it, so I appreciate everything that you’ve said, and I’m very thankful for this last hour.

	O:	I could give you some more dates if you want me to. I got, I had just recently, about a month ago, I gave a lecture at my daughter’s—she’s going to the Chapman Program. It’s at Chapman University, and it’s a because she’s a military spouse, she’s going for her master’s degree. And so she asked me to give a lecture on Latinos, you know. What would be your reaction if a Anglo person came to your home, and you as a Latino, how would you react to that? And my first comment was—the previous week that they had started these ethnic lectures, they had a couple Native Americans, and they were not too happy being Native Americans. My first quotation, as I went up there in the front of the class was, I’m proud to be a Chicano. I am actually proud, I am extremely proud of my





ethnic race. And then I started into the various segments of my personal life, and I feel like when a person comes to your home, I don’t want him or her to come in with la breeze or perfume and start spraying our place. Because oh, it smells like frijoles or tortillas or something sort of herbs that we’re not accustomed to.

Because each of us has different cultures and different traditions, so we have to respect each individualities. And so my comment was, just make eye contact and try not to be negative, and I was addressing the mostly females, because they’re the one’s that are going to be the psychologists or the case workers coming into homes other than their own ethnic race. And so it would be nice to have someone come in and not downcast, in other words, I’m better than you are, because I got the degree, or I am a case worker, or I am a PhD. And so it’s great to know that we can all humble ourselves and not criticize our friends or neighbors or acquaintances or people that are in trouble, that we’re not better than no one else, but treat everyone equally. And so that was most of my conversation there, and I was asked all kinds of questions. How would you treat this? Another question that was brought up to me was, how would you treat homosexuality? We know that in the Latino community there’s a lot of—because the church, the Catholic church is against homosexuality. And so, the first thing, my comment was, and this was from the professor himself, how would you treat homosexuality? I said that was one the reasons why I left the Roman Catholic Church. I became a general Protestant, a non-denominational person. Because we are all treated equally. And I said, well the creator Christ Jesus, he came to this world and he associated himself with sinners instead of the Sadducees and





Pharisee. In other words, instead of the religious leaders of that particular time, he went into the villages and the little towns, and he talked to the average man and woman and child. He was not above these individuals. He did not put himself above, and so that was my thing, and I said that’s the reason why whether my son or my daughter or whoever, if they told me that they were gay, I would respect them just as much as the straight person. And so I didn’t have no negative feelings, I love them just as dearly, as much as if they were or they were not. This was a question that had bothering some these individuals, and after I made that comment, everybody started talking about, well I’ve got a sister, I’ve got a brother, or I got a cousin. And I told them we also have relatives on my wife’s side that are gay. We don’t degrade them, you know we still talk to them, but regardless of who or what they are, we still respect them. So anyway that was a something that was brought up and I was glad to answer that. Another factor was, religion was another factor, because most of the Latinos are Roman Catholics. Well, I hate to say this, but in Mexico there’s a lot of Mormon Latinos. In South America there’s a lot of Jehovah Witness Latinos. And here in Bremerton, there’s just a little handful. Even my own mother is a Jehovah Witness, but I don’t have no criticism of that. Like I told my mom, I said, I’m a Protestant, I’m a non-denominational member of Christ Jesus, I respect your beliefs as long as we all believe in Jesus Christ in the religion aspect. And so I was very comfortable as far as this thing that everybody feels like, well if you’re Latino you’ve got to be a Roman Catholic. No way! We live in the free society where we make our own personal decisions, and so I feel like, you know, I’m





very comfortable in who and what I am. And I don’t have to hide; I don’t have to look the other way, I can look people straight in the face and say, I am who I am and that is who I am. And so I feel like you know, we don’t have to put on these false airs that a lot of people put on a false front just to kind of blend in with the people or the general population. You have to stand up for your own individual rights. You believe that they’re right, your own personal self, you don’t have to subscribe to other people’s beliefs, whether religion or ethnic racism. And so I feel very comfortable in what I say, and sometimes I do make mistakes. I’ll be the first to admit that, and I’ll be the first after listening to the both sides, I can make a rational decision afterwards, because sometimes we look at various different subjects, and I remember when Paul got his PhD. I got involved with a big old discussion with one of his classmates, who I did not know had a PhD, and at that time it was the Attorney General of the United States, and I said well I don’t believe in her point of view, and I did not realize that she was the guest speaker at one of their commencement exercises for these law students at Duke University [Laughter]. And so I politely told him my beliefs, my point of view, and of course after he explained his point of view, then I still held to my beliefs and he held to his, but it’s nice to have a confrontation, but to both agree to disagree. [Laughter] And so, that was my point of interest, I suppose. It was great to have a good discussion, and then afterwards when I found out he had his PhD, I thought, oh, I should have gone over there and apologized to him, but we both had our strong opinions for this female individual, but anyway that’s in the past now. Anyway Steve, anymore questions my good man?





A:  No, and I do thank you vey much for this wonderful interview, and I appreciate every minute of it.

O:  All right. Now there’s another thing I was going mention now, my son has also taped me on tape. That you could ask him for that, some of those tapes if you wanted to listen to some more of my in-depth conversations.

A:   Oh, absolutely.



	O:	You might ask him about those tapes, because whenever we get together he tapes me, and so he didn’t tape me last year—in fact he might—it was the year before, two years ago he taped me and three years ago he also done the same thing. So you might want to ask him for those tapes, you know, so you can listen to them.

	A:	Absolutely. Thank you very much now you have a wonderful day.



	O:	You’re welcome, you’re welcome. Thank you; you too. Thank you very much, Steve.

	A:	Thank you.



	O:	All right, bye-bye. A:	Bye.

[End of interview]





	Audit Edited by:	Holland Hall, March 23, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019