AAHP 259; Driskell; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 259 Ella Mae Driskell African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Anthony Pierce on March 8, 2012 17 minutes | 9 pages



Abstract: Ella Mae Driskell was born in Polk County, Florida. Mrs. Driskell recalls her family’s involvement with the development of Bartow, Florida. She mentions her great- grandfather starting the first Black Church called First Providence and describes its importance to her family due to them being raised in the church. There were tensions between the east and west sides of Polk County as described by Mrs. Driskell and they were not racially related. She then mentions the role the first Black church had on creating the first school in Bartow, Florida for Black children. Ms. Driskell then goes on to emphasize the importance of good parenting on future generations as well as her reaction to seeing the first Black President come into office.



Keywords: African American History; Polk County, Florida; Segregation



















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 259

Interviewee: Ella Mae Driskell Interviewer: Anthony Pierce Date: March 8, 2012



	P:	Today’s date is March 8, 2012. Can you please state your name? D:	Ella Mae Driskell.

	P:	Are you comfortable sharing your age? D:	I’m 89 years old.

	P:	And were you born in Polk County? D:	Yes I was.

	P:	What city in Polk County? D:	What year?

	P:	What city? Which part? D:	Bartow. Right here

	P:	What were Black and White relations like growing up? D:	Uh, it was alright. My family didn’t have no trouble with it.

	P:	Do you think that was because of your family or the area that you lived in?



	D:	Well, I was living here ever since I’ve been here. Ever since I was right up on the hill there, they call it on the hill. That is where I was raised. The house was up there.

	P:	What can you recall about your family’s involvement with developing Bartow? D:	What you —?

	P:	From what I understood your family helped put together Bartow? Started the city?

	D:	Oh yeah, my great granddaddy. He was a Green. My granddaddy was named Sam Williams but my grandma before she was married she was a Green, and





Green started the first church we ever had was right down there, First Providence.

	P:	Now was this the first Black church or the first church? D:	First Black church.

	P:	In Bartow, okay. Do you remember anything about the early stages of them getting ready to set up the church?

	D:	All that is in the history, If could find it I would. I can’t remember, if I could find that history it’d be easier for me to follow.

	P:	Is there anything what you remember seeing growing up about the church or people that come in and out?

	D:	Well, I’ve been down there all my life and this one, you know, seeing different people coming in. My family was really raised out— that was where we was raised at, down there in that church. My family was the plantation of that church, and all of us from generation to generations was raised down there in that church, First Providence.

	P:	Okay. Do you recall there being Blacks that lived in a particular part of Polk County? Were Blacks more prevalent in one particular city? Or were they in all the cities, just segregated areas?

	D:	All of it segregated. As far as I know, just the segregated areas. I said the east side and the west side, now this is the west side and this is the east side. It’s still the east side. The east side couldn’t mingle with the west side. Always, they had to come over to the west side. That’s all I’m saying that I know about that.

	P:	Now as far as east and west, they were different races?





	D:	No, it was the same races. Black folks, but west side people couldn’t stand the east people and east side couldn’t stand the west side so that’s the way it was. The boys, if they come over here and they run them back over there. In my generation that’s the way it run. And when I was raising my children, they didn’t like them boys to come in to see my girls and they always running in my house and I’ll save ‘em. [Laughter]. I’ll tell them to start running. [Laughter] Learn to fight.

	P:	Do know what started the east and the west side not getting along?



	D:	No, actually we had to go to school at on the west side. And they used to pick at us, ‘cause they thought they was better than us. That what I said, they thought they was better than us. They didn’t think we was good enough to come on their side. They used to always get them too.

	P:	Did the east side, did they have more money?



D:  I don’t think they had more, we have people who go over there but I don’t think they had much, you know. They was just jealous, that’s all I can say. They was just jealous.

	P:	Okay. So growing up, what do you think was one of the most memorable experiences that you had growing up as a young Black girl in Polk County?

	D:	My people wasn’t well off and I couldn’t even get as much as the other folks in my lifetime. Cause I had never rode a bicycle. My people wasn’t able to buy me a bicycle. We were well taken care of but we weren’t wealthy like the other folks.

	P:	So how many people were in the house with you growing up? D:	It was seven children and my daddy and my mama.





	P:	What do you think was the role of the Black church? D:	The role?

	P:	Yes, ma’am. How important was the Black church?



	D:	Oh, it was very important because we couldn’t go to the White folks. [Laughter]



	P:	So at the Black church, from what I understand, meetings and things were held there as well?

	D:	Yeah, the first school they had come from our church. P:	So— I’m sorry go ahead.

	D:	The school, they had a convention and stuff— all that is in that history book. If I could get that history, you wouldn’t have to ask me nothing.

	P:	But, I like your face and your voice so I like you telling me about it. D:	Oh, you like me telling you. [Laughter]

	P:	Now your family helped start the first Black church, which helped start the first school in Bartow, for Blacks?

	D:	Uh-huh. The Green Family.



	P:	The Green family, okay. Within the city of Bartow, since you’ve lived here all your life, what are some of the biggest changes that you’ve noticed?

	D:	Well, lemme see, what changes do they have in Bartow? Well, I couldn’t tell you. Well I know a long time we used to have a school here where you go to the sixth grade, then you go on the other side. That’s the only thing I know of right now, about the school. We used to have a school around there on Polk Street. And when you get to the sixth grade, you had go on the other side, and that’s when the children started picking at us.





	P:	So there were a lot of fights at the school between the east and the east side?



	D:	It was mostly talk. Every now and then we used to fight and I had to walk from here to that school, and you better not be late.

	P:	How long of a walk? How long it take you to get there?



	D:	Well, we used to leave home around ‘bout seven o’clock in the morning. It was real early, we had to get there before that bell ring.

	P:	You remember what time school started?



	D:	School started at eight o’clock, I believe. It’s a lot different in school now. We had to start about eight. We got to get out by three.

	P:	So you had a hour walk, to and from school?



	D:	Oh lord yeah, we had a walk, and we better not be late.



	P:	And how was lunch taken care of? Did you pack your lunch?



	D:	Well, in my day, my mom didn’t used to— most everybody packed their lunch, we used to swap lunches. Brown bags.

	P:	What advice would you give today’s generation? D:	Bad.

	P:	Well, what would you tell them to make them better? Something that they need to learn?

	D:	Well, right now I wouldn’t talk to these children for nothing in the world ‘cause their parents would get behind me. Instead of the parents helping them, they sit down and laugh and grin at them. And whatever they do look like it’s alright with them. I wouldn’t give them two cents to mess with them.

	P:	So you think the generation’s current problem deals with poor parenting?





	D:	I believe it comes from the parents. That’s where it comes from. Lots of it comes the TV. But most of it is coming from home. ‘Cause you supposed to get advice from home first. And then they get out there in the streets and get with their partners and things and do wrong things. If I had a child now, I think I’d kill them. [Laughter]. And the way they wear their clothes, we ain’t never wore no clothes like they wearing ‘round here now.

	P:	This is my last question, do you happen to remember around what time or year the church started?

	D:	I mean this is a hundred and fifty-six years since that church been down there.



So you can count from there.



	P:	So the first Black church in Polk County started about a hundred and fifty-six years ago.

	D:	Yeah. Uh-huh.



	P:	And you know how long they were existing before they started the school? D:	No, I sure don’t. Now that’s one thing I don’t know.

	P:	Do you have anything in your life that you would change? D:	In my life?

	P:	Yes ma’am.



	D:	No ma’am. No [Laughter]. No. I’m glad I was raised up like I was. My mother and daddy was tight on me, was tight on the whole family at least. The things these children are doing now, we couldn’t do it. No, no, no. My daddy whooped me with a razor strap. I hate the razor strap today. Yes, yes. No, I wouldn’t change my life. I don’t think I would be here today if I wasn’t brought up right. Lots of my





friends used to try to get me to do things that they did, and I didn’t pay them no mind ‘cause my mom and daddy would have killed me.

	P:	So what was a normal day like in your household when you were a child? D:	Day like, what you mean?

	P:	You started off your day by going to school.



	D:	Going to school, Sunday school in the church. On a Sunday go to church, go to school, back home, help your momma to do things around the house.

	P:	So essentially it was school, chores, and church. D:	Uh-huh. Yeah.

	P:	And what was your main chore? Or did everyone help with everything?



	D:	Everybody had to do something, ‘cause in that time you didn’t have no— we used to sit on our knees and scrub the floor. Clean the floor. If these children had to do it now, they wouldn’t do it. That’s the thing that we did, they didn’t. That’s what we used to do around the house. Help my momma ‘round the house and help to take care of the babies. I was the oldest, next to the oldest.

	P:	And would you say the neighborhood is still pretty much the same?



	D:	Well, in some neighborhood I wouldn’t stay in. But where I stay right ‘round here, I don’t have no trouble no way, form, and fashion. But there are some terrible neighborhoods around here, since I’ve been coming up. There was a time you used to leave your door open and didn’t have to lock it or nothing. Now you better lock your door.

	P:	Does the east and west side still have issues? D:	What you mean by that?





P:   You said that the east and west side didn’t get along. Do they still not get along?



D:  Well, they’re much friendly now since I growed up. Uh-huh. But, they’re always gonna have some people gonna say, “Oh, the west is this, and the west side is that.” It just one of them things.

P:   And, how do you feel with us having the first Black president?



	D:	Good, ‘cause I did never think that I would ever see that happen. I came up in Hoover time, and you know, Hoover time was something else. That was a terrible time of my life, I believe, when Hoover time.

	P:	For those who don’t know, could you explain what that means, Hoover time?



	D:	Hoover time was a time that you— things were rough then. You think things rough now but things were rough in Hoover time. That’s the best I could say ‘cause— you know you could go to the store and you could get you a bag of peas for ten cents. Things were real cheaper then, than it was now. ‘Cause that’s the way you had to live.

	P:	Okay, now is there anything that you care to add? D:	Add?

	P:	Yes ma’am.



	D:	No, I ain’t got nothing to add to that.



	P:	Okay, well, I thank you for your time ma’am. That’s it. D:	Well, I guess I did the best I could.

[End of Recording]





	Transcribed by:	Krystal Dixon , March 2017





	Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, February 15, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 22, 2019