AAHP 022; White; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 022 Albert White

African American History Project (AAHP) Interview conducted by Marna Weston on May 25, 2010

1 hour, 13 minutes | 41 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Albert White discusses growing up in Gainesville, Florida, living in the Sugarhill neighborhood and working at his father’s restaurant in the Porter’s Quarters neighborhood. He relates memories of his grandfather, Al Higgins, as a widely respected and very hard-working man who did a lot to help his community. Mr. White offers some memories of going to school at North Carolina A&T State University in Greensboro, including the civil rights activism there and the National Guard firing on a dorm there. He particularly offers some extended reflections on the complex impacts that racial integration has had on the African American community, and in so doing, the experience of going to Lincoln High School. As he describes it, Lincoln instilled a sense of identity, community, and achievement in students that he feels was lost after integration, when Lincoln was closed and then demoted to a middle school. He ruminates on the concern that one day there will be no more Lincolnians.





Keywords: [African American History; Education; Alachua County, Florida; Lincoln High School]





































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 022

Interviewee: Albert White Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: May 25, 2010



	MW:	We’ll go ahead and get started with our interview on May 25, 2010. This is Marna Weston with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program in the libraries of the Graham Center at Pugh Hall, on the campus of the University of Florida. And our interviewee today is Mr. Albert White, and Mr. White, thank you so much for participating in the interview today.

	AW:	Thank you for the invitation. I’m looking forward to it.



	MW:	Well, so are we. Your reputation and demeanor have been a great inspiration to me here as a student in the community and this is great for us to have the opportunity to see how far some of that mentoring you have given me has—

	AW:	[Laughter] Yeah. Yeah. MW:	—gone into play.

	AW:	I’m proud of your accomplishments due to this day. MW:	Thank you very much.

	AW:	You’re doing a great job.



	MW:	Mr. White, could you tell us your date and place of birth? AW:	Now you didn’t tell me it was gonna be that personal— MW:	[Laughter]

	AW:	—but, anyway, my date of birth is December 4, 1944. I was born right here in Gainesville.

	MW:	Alrighty, and who are your parents?



	AW:	My parents are Altamese Henry and Willie White. My father was killed when I was very, very, very young—by a White male, as a matter of fact. And my mother





remarried. My stepfather, Elmer Henry is the only father that my brother Willie and I have ever known. My brother, Willie, recently passed about a month ago.

	MW:	Very sorry to hear that.



	AW:	But, he’s the only father that we’ve ever known. And I lived with stories about how my father was murdered throughout my life, until I became an adult, of course, but when you’re a child, people would talk around you. You’d hear stories about that. A little section of Gainesville called Porters—and you all, you may be familiar with that area—was where this all occurred, but I have no idea about what happened. I wanted to go back into the archives of the Gainesville Police Department to see what was reported. I actually went through all the microfiche—we didn’t have all of this stuff when I started looking for accounts of that incident—and I couldn’t find anything in the Gainesville Sun. But my mother kind of pleaded with me not to go to the police department and ask to see if there were records of any of that stuff, because I guess the wounds would’ve been too deep for her. So, I respected that, so I never did go back to see if there was any record of what really happened, what transpired on that dreadful day. And she’s gone now, so I may, at some point, attempt to find out more about that.

	MW:	Your impressions are so vivid of that moment, as you tell the story and recall. I can feel the emotion and the truth in everything you were saying. Do you feel that incident—well, of course you feel that way—but could you describe a little bit more how that incident has shaped your life?

	AW:	Well I’m proud of one thing about that, is that I didn’t allow that to make me bitter, in spite of all of the other experiences that I’ve had as a child and a young adult,





and then into my seasoned years now. I’ve managed to accept the fact that it did happen. We know that a lot of those kinds of things happened, and there was no retribution as far as the families were concerned, and I didn’t accept it, but certainly just faced the fact that this happened and this is the way things were going on in those times, and in some instances even today. And just said that, well, I’ll just have to do all I can to, number one, protect myself, my family, and whatever community I end up living in. So, I’ve kind of lived, I think, some of my motivation comes from that, and the things all surrounding that whole incident.

And again, it’s all based on secondhand knowledge, people saying your dad, your father—they called my dad Willie Bo—“Oh, you Willie Bo’ son, and he was killed by this gentleman”—they’d call his name without realizing the impact that it would have on my brother and me, hearing them talk about that. But that’s kind of funny, because that did go on for a while.

	MW:	What kind of a man was your stepfather, the man who filled in and—



	AW:	More hardworking. Hardworking. You know, the generation prior to the generation that I grew up in was one where men felt like their job was to work and take care of their families, and that’s what they basically did. Or whether there was a lot of nurturing in many cases, and going out, taking the boys fishing, that kind of thing; it was more about, “Hey, I’m bringing home the bacon here. I’m bringing home the money, the wife is gonna—your mother’s gonna run the house and make sure things are going well. My job is to protect you and provide for you,” and that’s kind of the mode that my stepfather was in. But he worked. Hard worker.





	MW:	What kind of a home did your mother create for her—and, by the way, her name, Alta—?

	AW:	Altamese.



	MW:	That’s a very unusual name. You don’t hear that very often.



	AW:	Yeah. She’s a very unusual lady; very, very great home life. My home, as a matter of fact—there were six of us—and my home was, I guess, the neighborhood rec center, because she allowed us to expand and grow in our own ways of provided for us. I brag about the fact that my mother took my brother Willie and me to our first dance—is what we called them back then—to see Ray Charles, and I was in 10th and my brother was in the 11th grade.

Because she wanted to expose us to that life, because she was determined that we were gonna go to college somewhere. And it wasn’t gonna be in Gainesville, because I couldn’t come out here. I didn’t really want to come out here, but I couldn’t have come out here if I wanted to. But she exposed us to a night club experience with Ray Charles, and then she carried us back to see James Brown—that’s when I fell in love with James Brown, and it’s reported that I could dance just like him when I was younger. And I really could. [Laughter] But those experiences were things that she wanted us to have when we were young, and she made sure that all six of us had those experiences and were allowed to be our own persons. Now we did own a business—a restaurant—that we had to work in, and we hated, but it was a very popular restaurant in Porter’s. And we all had to work in the restaurant, which taught us a lot of responsibility along those lines, too.





	MW:	What was the name of the restaurant?



	AW:	It was called “Pop’s Restaurant”. That’s my stepfather’s nickname, and he’s known by that name moreso than his real first name. It was called, “Pop’s Restaurant.”

	MW:	And where was it located?



	AW:	In Porter’s. Over on Southeast Fifth Street over in Porter’s. MW:	Now you said there were six of you—

	AW:	Southwest 5th street. Yeah, there were six of us.



	MW:	So, besides you and Willie, who else was in the family?



	AW:	There were five boys and one girl. My brother, Charles, is next to me. Then my brother, Scherwin, who is the City Commissioner right now Scherwin Henry—my stepfather’s last name was Henry. So there’s Charles and Scherwin, and then Janice and Michael. Just one girl. Five boys and a girl.

	MW:	What was it like for her having five brothers?



	AW:	[Laughter] She was spoiled. She was spoiled. But she was crazy—she still is crazy about her brothers. And I’d give her a quarter, and she’d wash dishes when my turn came—I always liked that. So she helped in a lot of ways, yeah.

	MW:	Did you have chores besides working at the restaurant?



	AW:	Yeah. Well, one of the chores that I had was really unusual, and my grandfather, Albert Higgins—I was named after both my grandfathers. Albert Higgins was—I maintain that he was the first real Black entrepreneur that I know of in Gainesville. He was a man who had four grocery stores that he built. He had a





pool room, a restaurant, a laundromat, and he had about 40 houses that he rented.

	MW:	Sounds like Donald Trump.



	AW:	I tell you, he was a very, very—entrepreneurship was just the epitome of his life.



And the business acumen that he had, not having a college education and not much of a high school education… He came here from Oglethorpe, Georgia, he and my grandmother, who did attend Spelman.

	MW:	Now what is her name?



	AW:	Annelle Higgins. And they came here with my mother and my aunt. It was a small family, just my mother and my aunt. They had two daughters--

	MW:	And your Aunt’s— AW:	--Barbara Higgins. MW:	Sorry, please go on.

	AW:	Very active in this community, and was the first Black employee at the Supervisor of Elections Office. But he built this business empire with just hard work. He got up about four o’clock every day, and we all lived in a three-story house that he built on Sugar Hill, which is in southeast Gainesville. And we lived on the second level—he and my grandmother lived on the second level, in separate apartments. My aunt lived upstairs on the third level. One of the grocery stores was on the first level, and the men that worked for him lived in the back of that store. He came here back in the, I guess, the [19]30s. Yeah, the [19]30s. And he began to build his empire by going up and working in the Catskills and some of the other places—and there’s a term for that. That’s called ‘working on the season,’ where





they travel up in work in the resorts, and they would come back home after the season ended. And I guess he must have saved his money or whatever. But he started building grocery stores, and then once he got his first store, he didn’t go back. And he continued to build more stores and build more homes, and rent homes out, and he was the first Black to have a liquor license in Alachua County. So, he had acquired all of this wealth. So, one of my chores—back to that—was to count money. My brother and my cousin, Yvonne and I. While most kids would have to wash dishes or whatever, my grandmother would spread newspaper on the floor, and she’d just dump bags of coins. And we loved counting the money. The bills, that was real easy, but rolling money back then was not like it is now where they come already rolled, and they also come now where you have the little machines that will do all of that for you. But back then you actually had to lick the roller—the glue—and then have to dry. You’d have to take the money and put it in—our hands were a little weak, we just hated rolling. And we didn’t mind rolling the 50-cent pieces and the quarters, but we hated the dimes and the nickels, and so we’d fight about who was gonna roll the 50-cent pieces or the quarter pieces tonight, and whose turn it was. My grandmother would sit in her rocking chair, and just watch us while we did it. She was supervising us. So that was the chore that we had, because my grandfather was a very well-off person, but he worked like crazy. He smoked his Lucky Strike cigarettes and he wore jeans all the time, and he got up in the morning about 4:30 and he was working til about seven o’clock, and he’d come home. My grandmother would prepare dinner for him. He’d be in bed around 8:30, nine o’clock. That was his routine.





Never went to church, but he would close the stores. He wouldn’t open the stores until late on Sundays, and he’d close around five. That was the only time I’d ever see him relax; if he was really relaxing at all, that would be the time. And it’s my ambition to one day write a very—it’s a short story, but I really want to write about his history, because he did so much for a lot of people. Bailing folks out of jail. He wasn’t afraid to go downtown and talk to the man. He got a ticket once—I never will forget—and this story has just permeated the Black community. This policeman stopped him, and wanted to write him a ticket. For whatever reason, I don’t know, but scared us to death; we were in the car with him. And the guy asked him, and he told him, “You must not know who I am. I’m Al—“ We called him Al Higgins back then. He said, “You not gonna write me a ticket.” And he called some judge name, and he say, “I’m just gonna call the judge, so you wasting your time.” He wasn’t intimidated by law enforcement officers. Now, I don’t want to sound anti-law enforcement, because I’m a charter member of the Black on Black Crime Task Force, and I really support GPD, and have been a supporter for years.

	MW:	You recently served on the committee to choose the new chief of police.



AW: Right. The selection committee. But, he knew how we were treated forever, but certainly during my time in the [19]40s and [19]50s growing up.

	MW:	When you say how you were treated, could you elaborate?



AW:  Yeah. As Blacks. And he was not intimidated by that, and he had the resources to be able to stand up to a lot of things, because he wasn’t dependent on going to somebody’s house to clean or whatever for his job, or being fired from a job,





simply because he was independent. And he received that independence with alacrity. He didn’t mind doing that. And he knew who he was and what he stood for, and he had the power to stand up to folks who might mistreat us. And there’s a lot of people were dependent on him, because of the money he was spending with businesses, too. That’s another thing. Think about that. You buying supplies from certain businesses; hey, they gonna look out for you because they appreciate the money you’re spending with them. So all of that stuff tied into his influence, and he didn’t mind using it. But again, he wasn’t polished. He’s not gonna sit here and cross his legs, and speak to you using all the correct English and grammar, but he was doing something right because he built a wealth. When he died, everything was left to my grandmother. The first thing she did was sell the liquor license, because she was a devout Christian. I was in college and, God knows, I wish I had already finished, because then I could’ve maybe helped them make a different decision; because liquor licenses were so valuable, and they only allot so many per county. And my grandfather’s sitting here holding one. And she sold that. Then, she just couldn’t manage all of that. That was too much for her. So, she left much of it to my aunt and my mother when she passed on, but it was just too much for them to really deal with. My grandfather didn’t really include them in a lot of the business, like many men did during those days, and so what happened was that much of the property, it’s not in our family anymore. That hurts, but it’s been sold, and that’s kind of a sad commentary for all of the wealth that my grandfather built and left behind. But he didn’t prepare properly so that it could be continued. He did want my mother to allow him to adopt my older





brother Willie and me, because it was his intent that we were going to work in those businesses, and he really didn’t appreciate us going off to college. He really wanted us to stay here and do that, but, of course, we had greater ambitions than to work. The business side, I could see, you know, being over and running a business like that would be good, but to just come back and work for him and not finish your college education was not wise. That wouldn’t have been the thing; plus, it wasn’t what I wanted to do. Furthermore, I love Greensboro, so I wouldn’t wanna leave Greensboro and come back here to work in a grocery store!

	MW:	We’re definitely going to talk about Greensboro. But I’d like to speak to you just a moment about this concept of building wealth, as opposed to just having money or income. Why is that important? You seem to lament the loss of the liquor license and the properties; does that have something to do with the ability to accumulate wealth in a certain fashion?

	AW:	Absolutely. It’s where I am now, and those who know me well know I love really dabbling in the market, buying stocks, and reading everything I can on mutual funds and so on. At some point, we’ve got to leave something so that our children can continue to do the things that are necessary to make our communities better. What we have now is a lack of clout in our communities. We have a lack of influence. A lot of that has to do with the fact that we are so dependent on systems, and we’re so dependent on people that we are not independent enough. There are two things I always say, after God, that’s gonna really make life better for African-Americans in the United States. And that’s





education and wealth. Education, we’re beginning to turn that around. We were beginning to turn that around. I’m seeing some retrogression here of late. But wealth is really the one that gives you the independence and the freedom to be able to challenge and to implement changes that may not necessarily be popular and well-received by mainstream, but they are necessary in order for us to have better lives. And so the wealth gives you somewhat of a sense of freedom. And it’s real freedom, where you can say things that need to be said and not worry about reprisal. You can do things that need to be done and not worry about reprisal. And you can stand up for things that you need to. And a lot of times, good people won’t stand up for wrongs, because they are afraid of what may happen to them. Let’s face it. If you’ve got a mortgage and a car payment and kids in college, you tend to maybe not be as assertive about some things as you should. It’s a good feeling, and I’m speaking from experience that it’s a good feeling—

	MW:	The comedian Chris Rock—



	AW:	—to not worry about those kinds of things. It took a lot of hard work and preparation and planning on my wife’s and my part. But, you know, we’re there. We’re there. And I forewarned everybody that I worked with before I finally retired that you may see me a little differently now, in terms of some things. Because, well, I’ve always been basically outspoken. I consider myself to be really outspoken now, and I’m gonna call it like I see it. To me, that’s just one of the benefits of wealth, and many other things. To travel—we go places and do things and all that fun stuff, too, but my passion is more committed to seeing if there is





way we can bring others along. And that’s really where my wife’s and my passion is. It’s so funny, because when we were living In North Carolina—my wife actually graduated from A&T before I did. I would work a semester and hang out semester, and pay back the money I borrowed to go to school for that previous semester, and then the subsequent semester, I’d go back. And things were really rough. And when she graduated, we got married, and she was hired by the Guilford County Health Department. She reported to work her first day, and when she walked—we’d gone out and sacrificed and bought a new outfit for her. She got to work, and they told her she was not hired. If you can imagine what that did. I’ve got a letter in my scrapbook that I’ve got to let you see that I wrote the governor of North Carolina during that time. [Laughter] I wrote the letter on notebook paper, it’s so funny. But I always rewrote things that I mailed, because I wanted to have copies of them. And it’s dated and everything, because I was really upset about the treatment my wife was getting. At some point, our two children came along, and it was just hard finding a decent job in North Carolina; and that’s why we really needed to get out of there, because the state was really not one of the better states to live in at that time. But, anyway, I wrote this letter to Governor—I think it was Bob Scott that was governor of North Carolina at that time—and he sent me back this form letter I guess he sends everybody. His aides probably composed it, and got a stamp with his signature on it, but he wrote back saying all the right things about hanging in there and things are gonna get better for you, and all that kind of stuff. But, we made a promise— standing in that bare living room that we lived in with no carpeting and that cold





tile floor, I can remember, with our two kids, Marcus and Bridget. And we made a vow that we would always reach back; we were obligated to help folks. We got our education—my wife had already gotten her BS, and I was about to get mine. We made a promise to ourselves that we were obligated to help folks that were less fortunate than we were, whether it was education or whatever. But we were gonna always reach back. We’ve lived up to that, I think. We both have a passion for community and helping. So, that’s one of the things. It’s hard for me to talk about that. That’s one of those things that we just have made sure that every time we can help somebody, we do. My wife, I think, is extreme with it, and people think I’m extreme. She’s really extreme, because we think that people are not naturally lazy or poor. It’s just that sometimes everybody needs a helping hand.

	MW:	You tried to direct that altruism toward business, education?



	AW:	Uh-huh. Yeah. I’m going to be talking in a minute. I’m just trying to get myself back together now.

	MW:	What are your earliest memories of your education? Where did you first receive education?

	AW:	My earliest memories is Ms. Altemese Cook. Not Ms. Altemese, my first grade teacher, who I loved. Well, that comes to mind. My first memories is going to St. Augustine Prepschool—St. A-guss-teen, they called it—off of northwest Fifth Avenue, as a matter of fact. And Ms. Gibson was my teacher, and that’s my first memory of education. Ms. Cook always comes to mind, first grade always comes to mind. But that was really my first experience with education. And going





through Williams Elementary, which was just six classrooms and an office at that time. Now Williams is, of course, in southeast Gainesville, and it’s much larger— a cafeteria, a library, and all those things. But back then, it was just a six- classroom building. We ate lunch in the classroom, and we did, I mean, everything in the classroom. And I know all of my teachers from first through sixth grade. I can still remember them and call them by name.

	MW:	Who are they?



	AW:	Altemese Cook, I had in first grade. In second grade, I had Ms. Gary; third grade, I had Ms. Kelsey; fourth grade, I had Ms. Jackson; fifth grade, I had Ms. Martin; sixth grade, I had Ms. West. Those were my teachers. So you know I always loved school.

	MW:	Do you still have a connection with Williams today?



	AW:	Yeah, I have done tutoring over there, reading, and doing the SECME periods when I was at GRU, helping the kids with the science projects and those kinds of things. So, yeah, and I still go over to Williams, and there are some kids in my mentoring program who attended Williams Elementary. So, I still have a connection with Williams. And my granddaughter attended Williams in the gifted program. So, I’m still connected to Williams, and I work closely with one of the instructors over there who has done somewhat of a history of that part of town, and—

	MW:	Is Felicia Moss still the principal over at Williams? AW:	No, no, she was at Metcalfe.

	MW:	She’s at Metcalfe, that’s right.





	AW:	Yeah, I’ve gone over there and I’ve worked with her and I’m working with some of her folks over there at Metcalfe now. But, Williams was very near and dear to my heart. And I still have my graduation program from sixth grade, as a matter of fact, in that scrapbook. Well, I’ve got about three scrapbooks that chronicle my life that I’ve done from right through elementary, high school, then college, and then my adult life now. For my children, I’m doing that for them. So, Williams played a big part in my life, and, of course, from there, we went over to Lincoln, which was really where my heart was. It still is.

	MW:	What is it about Lincoln that captures your heart?



	AW:	Oh man, everything: the teachers always, the sports, the challenge, the mentors—I had three mentors, the relationships, gosh, all the fun things. See, you’re not asking me all of this, but the one thing about when I went to school at Lincoln, it wasn’t integrated. It was the segregated school, and you would think that that’s not a good thing, but believe me it was. And I don’t mean to come across that I’m against integration. What I’m saying to you is that, who are the presidents of all the activities? The Spanish club and the dramatics club and who were the—

	MW:	Presidents?



	AW:	Who would you think? It was students who went to Lincoln, right? MW:	You’re right. They would look like you.

	AW:	So they were developing what? Leadership skills. So they were allowed to grow and develop in that way. You know, I was always the president of something. I was editor-in-chief of the newspaper. I was student council vice president for two





years, my junior and senior years. And I also was captain of the football team and basketball team my senior year.

	MW:	You were captain of the football and the basketball team?



	AW:	Mmhm. Yeah. I loved football, especially. I mean, sports, so I had sports. I had all of that. So I lettered in five sports, my senior year athlete of the year. But I also was number four in my class, because I loved school. But I also was in leadership roles in other things that were very important to students. And the teachers continued to just—we were not taught at Lincoln, you heard what I just say? We weren’t taught. We were educated. There’s a difference. The difference is when you’re taught, it’s between the covers of that book. But when you’re educated, you’re taught between the covers of this book and outside the book, too. And so, you were nurtured in so many ways. You were taught how to date.

Boys were taught how to cook. You were taught how to act. You were also taught the Pythagorean theorem, algebraic expressions. And you were taught the periodic chart, and you were also taught Newton’s three laws in the physics classes. So, you got all of that in, but it never stopped. The teaching never stopped. Educating never stopped. Every day, there was something to remind you that, one day, you had to be better than the next guy, because of how you looked and who you were. And that was embedded in us, see. When I got to A&T, I actually thought that they were going to be using the finger bowls. I had been brainwashed at Lincoln to think that they still used on the tables, because that was important to our teachers, to make sure we knew in case we ended up in a situation where—you know what a finger bowl is?





	MW:	Unh-uh.



	AW:	I don’t want to ask the audience. They may know. But a fingerbowl is a bowl that was placed on the table, and you were given a towel in those very formal settings. So when you got ready, before and after you ate, you just kind of used the finger bowl to just kind of daintily do your hands—

	MW:	So you had lessons in etiquette? Lessons in life? AW:	Yes.

	MW:	You mentioned how to date? AW:	Yes.

	MW:	How to treat a young woman courteously and open the door?



AW: Constantly. And you got those lessons, and so it helped you become a full, well- rounded person, because what they were telling us was that you are somebody. Yeah.

	MW:	I don’t want to put words in your mouth, but I think that there’s an important opportunity here for us to gain some insight. You mentioned that you’re not saying that segregation was good. But, obviously, the way you’re articulating your words and your feelings, you feel that something has been lost.

	AW:	Absolutely.



	MW:	What is it that’s been lost?



	AW:	Identity, the value of history. So many things like personal respect for each other, family, community. Oh, we’ve just lost so much! And I realize that time doesn’t stand still, and you never want to be here tomorrow. You know, you’ve got to progress and move forward, but we lost the very core—the fiber—of those things





that made us strong. I think we lost a lot of that when we began to integrate schools. For an instance, what happened when schools were integrated here in Alachua County? They closed Lincoln. Immediately. My brother, Scherwin, and hundreds of others were transported over to Gainesville High School to finish the school year. Couldn’t wait till the school year ended, even. And so they closed Lincoln. What did that do to this community? Lincoln was the hub of the Black community. Everything took place, virtually, at Lincoln. The school was accessible. The pride was there. This is where things happened. So that sense of community was lost. You got to remember Gainesville was not nearly as large as it is now. And I realize that, again, things change. So, when you start talking about the things that occurred after integration, we began to lose our identity.

And while we are a melting pot, and diversity is extremely important to me—I spent many years working to make sure that organizations I was involved with and worked for were diverse—but at the same time, we began to lose a lot of the identity that got us to this point. And what worries me about our history is that if that’s not valued, then we could very easily lose the ground that we’ve gained. I’d submit to you that we would gain the ground that we—you know, the progress we made was based on those virtues that I’m talking about that we had prior to integration. And I don’t want come across like Ron Karenga, or Angela Davis, or anybody who is radical about this, but I got to tell you, having attended college— particularly North Carolina A&T—in the [19]60s during the sit-ins, I appreciate why—and I had the privilege to march. They were demonstrating when I got to





A&T, and I was scared to death coming from Gainesville, thinking, “Hey, man, it’s crazy in Greensboro!”

	MW:	What year was this?



	AW:	That was in [19]62. Ezell, whom I knew—and he has an African name now, and I haven’t really learned his name, but I knew as Ezell.

	MW:	One of the four original lunch-counter sitters in February, 1960.



	AW:	Yeah. Yeah. Those guys were really brave. So I walked into that, and it didn’t take me long to really get in the groove. When I understood, and attended some of the rallies that we were having on campus and those kinds of things, it was becoming clear to me why they were doing what they were doing. By the time I left A&T, my dormitory was shot up. They recently tore it down, but for years, we fought them tearing down Scott Hall. They wanted to redo the wall. There were thousands of bullet holes in the wall where some of the guys on campus and the Blank Panthers had a shoot out with the National Guard in [19]68, when Martin Luther King was. And we fought them taking that wall down. They eventually tore the building down, but we fought it for years, because it was symbolic. It was symbolic as to what happened. So, when I got back to my dear old Florida, and started graduate school here, I can recall the day when some of the fire trucks was springing water on some of the students in front of Tigert Hall, and that was just this big thing in Gainesville and in the paper, the Gainesville Sun. It was just all over the paper. Students demonstrating, firemen spraying them with water.

	MW:	What year was that?





	AW:	That was in about [19]72. I completed my coursework here in about [19]71, [19]72.

	MW:	Was that before or after the Black student walk-out to take over the president’s office?

	AW:	It might have even been during, but it was just so—my wife and I, we were up in that area. We lived over in Diamond Village, and we looked out and saw the firemen spraying the water. And we just turned around and walked off, and not to diminish, degrade, demean what was going on, but the point was we had just left a place where people done shot up the dormitory, we done lost two students, and they spraying water. And this is a big deal? No, it’s not a big deal to us, because we were just leaving an environment where we saw real violence taking place.

We were standing in our apartment one morning and the National Guard was dropping teargas bags on Scott Hall, and we could just see them doing that, and we could hear POW! POW! POW! All day and all night. I was in the hospital. I had a pass to go to work, because of all the injuries that were taking place, and so I had to be at work as an orderly. I worked at night from 11 to 7, and went to school during the daytime. And they were bringing in wounded national guards, and as I said, we lost a couple of students during that shootout. Wounded national guards…Was any of that the right way to handle this or the right thing to do? No, it wasn’t, but it happened, and we were there. And so I saw all of this taking place during my college days, my wife and I. So our perspective differs from a lot of—at that time when we came back here—college students who were in college and other Blacks who were coming, I think we had about 90, I think





there were 90—I used to remember the number of Black students who were on campus when I started graduate school. I think it was like 90-something, if you can believe that. Aren’t there about five to six thousand of our—?

	MW:	I think it’s about 4%.



	AW:	Okay. Well, when I was here, it was less than a hundred. So I came back to an environment much like what I had left, because, you know, we couldn’t come on here when I finished high school.

	MW:	You talked about the Panthers. You talked about Karenga. You talked about Angela Davis. Does your family celebrate Kwanzaa? Is that a part of—

	AW:	No, we do not, we don’t. We don’t celebrate Kwanzaa. We will go to a Kwanzaa celebration, but as far as the home, no, we don’t.

	MW:	What did you think about Karenga and that whole, you know, this is within the movement, so, you know, the whole world was watching; there was the Vietnam War; there were the Panthers; there was Huey Newton, Bobby Seale.

	AW:	They were brave. They were brave people. Now, one would say we should do what Ralph Bunche did. Sit at the table and negotiate. I love what some of our more contemporary Black philosophers say. I call Dick Gregory a Black philosopher.

	MW:	You got to love Dick Gregory! [Laughter]



	AW:	We needed to sit at the conference table and negotiate, and we needed some people willing to throw a rock or two through a window. It probably took a little of both. That’s just a realistic thought.





	MW:	The Malcom-Martin dichotomy. You reminded me earlier—I was going to say say—Chris Rock. I was thinking of the humorous Chris Rock.

	AW:	I love him.



	MW:	He talked about Shaq is rich, but the White man that signs his check is wealthy.



So you seem to be…



	AW:	Yeah. Yeah, and so you needed a little of both. Did it make sense to burn down our own communities?

	MW:	You talking about [19]65? [19]68?



	AW:	Yeah, all of that. Yeah. And we saw so much, but you got to give the hippies credit. I mean, there was still those who were supportive and sympathetic and understood what was going on and didn’t perhaps agree with the direction that mainstream America was leaning in. So there are good folks on both sides of the spectrum here. Let’s face that. And I don’t want to come across other than anti- anything, other than—I am an extremely proud Black male. My philosophy teacher, Dr. McLaughlin—and I mentioned him to you—and he would always say, “I’m a mean Negro.” [Laughter] He would say that! Best courses I ever took. Now, I was a science major. I think I may have shared that with you. I love my science. I don’t know why. I know I used to tease my wife, being a liberal arts major, “Girl you not going to get a decent job being a liberal arts major. You need to get some science or some math!” And she would tell me, “You need to take some liberal arts courses.” We were married before I finished, as I told you. We were married, and she said, “Baby, you know, you need to take some





philosophy. You would love it. I just see you as somebody who would really love philosophy, because of the way you think” is what she told me.

	MW:	And this is at A&T?



	AW:	At A&T. She kind of psyched me out on that one. But she thought that the way that I looked at things…I took one philosophy course. Fell in love. Fell in love with it. Never had a course this good. I almost wanted to forget science; it meant that much to me. Then I took another one. Dr. McLaughlin. I took three, and I wanted him for all of them. Toynbee, Kierkegaard, all these guys I’d never heard of before. Then how you think. You start talking about realism, idealism, and all of these things that—existentialism. And I found out I was an existentialist. So all of this stuff was coming at me and I didn’t know anything about it, because I’m over here locked in a laboratory doing a darn experiment for six hours trying to find some element—but loving that, too. But I fell in love with philosophy so much until I really found out who I was, and that was a conversion for me. It really was a conversion. It’s almost like going down the aisles in your church, when you accept Jesus and you become baptized. That was a conversion for me when I took philosophy. But one of the things that Dr. McLaughlin used to always say, because he would talk sometimes about the conditions we were living in then as opposed to now. Well, it’s just different now. But, that’s another story. But he would tell anybody of another persuasion, he’d just say, “I’m a mean Negro.” He’d tell the class, “I wasn’t going to let them cheat me anyway, because I’m a mean Negro.” And I carried that with me to this day. The mentees that my wife and I had—our godsons—I taught them what a Negro was. It wasn’t a derogatory





term. It’s one of the many different names that we’ve been called. I’ve never seen “Negro” as being—if you get back down to the science of it, it’s really part of a scientific name. But, anyway, I’d teach them that, and they would say sometimes, “Mr. White, something may be going on. We mean Negroes.” And I’d say, “Yeah, we mean Negroes.” My grandsons, I’d have them saying that sometimes. And again, it’s not to do anything other than give them some pride about who they are. That’s all it is. It’s not to get them upset with anybody or make them dislike anybody. It’s just I want them to feel good about themselves. That’s a very important motto.

	MW:	Before we talk any more about A&T, I want to back up to make sure I pick up some pieces. When were you and your wife married?

	AW:	We were married in 1968. Well, “how long ago was that?” Forty-some years. Well we married in July of 1968.

	MW:	Wow. So, right after King was killed, right after Bobby Kennedy was killed. Before Bobby Kennedy was killed?

	AW:	Let’s see. I know we were married before—no, no, after! We were married in July, because that was in April?

	MW:	King was April and Bobby was June-- AW:	A couple months—yeah, In June.

MW: And then the Democratic Convention happened. The whole world was watching. See, you pulled your head up out of the lab, you take philosophy, and then all of this is taking place around you at the same time. What were the times like?





	AW:	I tell people that I couldn’t have gone to college at a better time than the [19]60s.



You had the demonstrations, the sit-ins. You had the tragic but historic events that took place with Dr. King and Bobby Kennedy. John F. Kennedy, JFK—I was a sophomore that year when he was killed. You had all of these different kinds of things going on. You had jazz festivals. Real jazz festivals, by the way, that were really great.

	MW:	What do you mean by real jazz festivals?



	AW:	I’m talking about Thelonious Monk. I’m talking about Blake. I’m talking about McCoy Turner. I’m talking about Herby Mann. I’m talking about jazz artists. You know, really it’s R&B. They call it jazz but it’s R&B now. And real jazz, not smooth jazz. I’m talking about real jazz. See, I like what we call Bop—Charlie Parker kind of jazz. Dexter Gordon, folks like that. Now that’s real jazz where you improvise with a time signature and a key. And then you say, “Okay, play.” So everybody starts playing on the time signature and the key doing their own thing, but it all makes sense. And it’s usually depicting something, an emotion of some kind.

And that’s something that we’re losing. Getting back to your question. I brought jazz in and I shouldn’t have, but since we talking about it, I gotta tell you.

	MW:	Are you a musician? Do you play an instrument?



	AW:	I play at the piano. I’m trying to learn “All That I Ask of You” and I love “Phantom of the Opera”. It’s killing me, but I’m gonna get it. But see, jazz is an art form.

That’s one of the things when we start talking about all the stuff we were taught at Lincoln and at your A&Ts and other places. That’s an art form that we’re losing. When you go to a jazz concert now, you don’t see people that look like





you and me. We’re not even supporting it. It’s an art form that we need to hold on to, a beautiful art form.

	MW:	At Lincoln, there was band?



	AW:	Oh, God. Our band was just as popular as the football team. MW:	The football team that what? Lost maybe twenty games ever?

	AW:	Well, there haven’t been many. Not at all. But, the music…we’re losing so much. I heard somebody say that it’s going to come a point where we won’t be able to write music any longer. Others will be writing music, because what we’re doing is rapping, and that is not music. Nobody will be able to sit there with the manuscripts and write the notes, the measures and all, on the music sheets, because nobody will understand music again. And you realize how entrenched we are in music. You know, we rule when it came to music. Not anymore. You had the Bach and Mozarts, but I’m talking about the whole thing about the jazz and the R&B music, and a lot of other musics we wrote. So, we’re losing something there that we really had ownership of at one time.

	MW:	That was preserved in the Lincoln community. You talked a little bit before we started the interview about the rivalry that existed—but a friendly rivalry. A community rivalry that existed between Lincoln and Mebane. What are your feelings or reflections on Mebane?

	AW:	Same county. Only 12-15 miles from each other, and I guess it’s like the FSU— I’d liken it to that if I had to use an analogy—and Florida rivalry. Just a little closer. People that we knew and were friends with. But, when it came to sports,





we didn’t know them. It was just a treacherous rivalry. We were good friends. I went to college, three guys from A.L. Mebane went to college with me.

	MW:	Who were they?



	AW:	Vermon Johnson, Wayne Peterson, and Billy Garrett. They all were from Mebane, and we knew each other during high school. But became like brothers at A&T, of course. But the rivalry was a good rivalry. It was a healthy rivalry. It was played the week of Thanksgiving.

	MW:	So just like Florida and Florida State? AW:	Yeah.

	MW:	The Saturday after Thanksgiving? AW:	No, we played on Thursday nights. MW:	Thanksgiving night?

	AW:	Well on this particular occasion, that game would be moved to the Wednesday.



But our regular games were always on Thursday nights when I was in high school. But folks would be in the town for Thanksgiving, and it would just be packed. I mean jam-packed. It would be so much excitement. And the bands would compete, because most Black band directors went to FAMU, so they all kind of tailored their bands after FAMU. And you know how great FAMU is.

	MW:	Could you describe that FAMU style? What does that mean?



	AW:	The fast marching. And you going to always get a good routine at halftime. The popular music of the day would be incorporated, and some dance routines and steps would be incorporated, as FAMU does today. And that was what we did back then. Plus, the marching cadence was just breathtaking, because of the





steps. So, we emulated FAMU that way. So, the game itself meant a lot, and you had bragging rights for a year, until the next year, and you wait to next year and kind of—

	MW:	But the halftime show meant a lot, too? AW:	Yes.

	MW:	So it was a whole show, from start to finish? AW:	From start to finish.

	MW:	What would that week be like leading up to the game?



	AW:	Crazy. Wild. All kinds of back and forth bantering. It’s a good thing we didn’t have computers back then and e-mails and all the other stuff, because I imagine it would have really been crazy. But because people we knew often shopped over here, and vice versa—we didn’t go over there to shop that much—but you’d run into them and of course, you worked with them. So you know everybody was kind of “woofing”, as we’d say at each other during that time. And somebody said to me once, “When you talk about Lincoln, you make it sound like it was all of that. But I refuse to believe that you all could’ve enjoyed school as much as you did and you had that much fun, like it was so great.” It’s hard for them to imagine really loving high school the way that we did. I think my senior year, I didn’t miss a day. My junior year I missed, I think, one day out of school, something like that. Throughout my entire high school period, I was blessed not to be very sickly. And even with the worst of colds, I went. I may have missed less than ten total days out of high schoo,l period. I didn’t want to miss a day out of high school, because every day was an adventure.





	AW:	And Lincoln still means so much to you. You still work with the Lincoln High Association. You have meetings and reunions. What has that been like to come back to the Lincoln experience?

	MW:	It’s been beautiful. When I got back, I was saddened, number one, that my high school was closed, all teachers was scattered, no more administrators to speak of. It bothered me. But one of the first things I did was pull together a banquet for my high school coach, who was one of my greatest mentors. I had three: Dr.

John C. Rawls; my coach, Coach Jesse Heard; and Andrew Mickle, who was instrumental in my getting a swimming scholarship to A&T, because he taught me competitive swimming and hired me as a lifeguard when I was in eighth grade, as a junior lifeguard. Then I became just a regular senior lifeguard when I became sixteen, and I worked at Lincoln Pool for a number of years to earn money during the summers. So, they were instrumental. But I had a banquet for Coach Heard, because it was my understanding that no one had ever given him his just due. After that, I wanted to do something for the teachers, so I pulled together a banquet for our teachers. We call it a Teacher Recognition Banquet, and the turnout was so huge. The response was so positive, until it hit me that we should just start an Alumni Association. So, I got a few people together, and they bought into the idea, so we created the Lincoln High School Alumni Association, which I chaired for the first, I don’t know, first four or five years. And I stepped down, because I wanted somebody else to take the reins and maybe see if they could grow it or make it a little bit better. After about two years, I came back, and I’ve been in the chair since, but for the two years. We’ve been in





existence now for seventeen years, and I’ve pretty much been in a leadership role there as the chair or president during that time. The event that we just had in May was huge. This was our biggest turnout. Folks did not want to leave town to go back to wherever they came from. We had such a beautiful time. We had the classes on parade on the first night, where the classes could do anything they wanted to do. Sing, dance, do a skit, or whatever. My class, we did a step. Let me rephrase that: we attempted to do a step. [Laughter] And it was gas, because we came out. Some folks were stepping, and some folks were stomping, and we were out of sync. People stepping on different cadences, and they clapping they hands on different rhythms, and we forgot half of our lines. And I had put together these lines that we were gonna say, “We the Class of ’62. We are the best.” And it was something else that we were supposed to do. And it would say, “Geritol is off the shelf. We don’t need nobodys else.” We had these little things like that, and we just forgot all of that. Then we got out on the floor and we did a little dance routine. We did the June Taylor thing. You guys are so young; you don’t even remember June Taylor. It used to be on the Jackie Gleason Show, and they would do the step, kick out, and feet together. And the girls would be standing in a line. And we had a little June Taylor step that we were supposed to do. We were supposed to do our knees up two times, and then kick it out two times. We had people kicking each other, because they turning this way or wasn’t turning at all, and we wasn’t turning all in synchronization. It was just really crazy. But it was funny, and that was the idea. And I knew that we were gonna mess it up. But that was where the fun came in. Then we did our little dance routines. We went





back and did some of the dances that we did when we were in high school as a part of our routine. All of that was just so funny. We could hardly do what we were supposed to do for laughing at ourselves. But it was a lot of fun. And then the next day we had a breakfast at Lincoln Middle School, and every time we go back there, it always hurts, because, you know, that was our school. They are working with us to create a museum at Lincoln Middle School for us. It’s a room, a pretty nice size room, where we will put Lincoln memorabilia in this room.

	MW:	They’ve done that at Mebane.



	AW:	They have already? That’s good. Well we’re doing that at Lincoln now. We had a breakfast over there, then, we had a banquet that night. What we call our Hall of Fame where we induct a number of individuals into our Hall of Fame. And we had six inductees to go in this year. And our oldest one was Ms. Susie White, who finished in the class of 1935 at Lincoln, and A. Quinn Jones was her principal. It was just a joy having her come to that. It really was.

	MW:	You speak of Lincoln in such glowing terms. I mean, your whole demeanor has just changed. You’re filling the room with it. What should Lincoln High School— that it existed, that is remembered today—mean to young people? You know, kids that don’t have the connection outside of the internet, or texting. Why is Lincoln important? Why should they care?

	AW:	Well, we’re working on that. That’s an extremely good question. Because what we are concerned about, and I had a person to come up to me. Reverend Elder Clifford Patrick came up to me after the event that night. His brother, Wayne, was a blocking back for O.J. Simpson, played with the Bills for about eight years. But





he came up to me—Elder Clifford Patrick did—and he said, “We gotta do something to get our children and our grandchildren involved. They gotta know about Lincoln. We don’t Lincoln to die. When the last Lincolnian is left standing, we don’t want that to be the end of Lincoln. We gotta do something.” He said, “I got this idea. We should have a Family and Friends Day, where we can get children out. Something they can participate in, and they can learn about Lincoln.” So to that end, what we’re going to do next summer is have a Family and Friends Day, and it’s gonna be a huge picnic. But, incorporated into the activities of that picnic, will be a period where we will have some historical reflections, and we will perhaps have some memorabilia that there won’t be a risk of destroying it or defacing it or whatever, that we can have out there so kids can see it. And we can talk about Lincoln for just a short period of time to get them to thinking about it. And we’re going to do that between our Grand Reunions which we do every other year, until they get—my children, they know Lincoln. They know it. Well, two of my kids went to Lincoln Middle School. But they know about Lincoln’s history, because they hear it and they see it there in the house. But we got to get more kids involved. So that’s one of the things that we plan on doing.

We may even incorporate an activity in the Grand Reunion activities next time that will be children-friendly. So that they can come and not be bored, but enjoy maybe a good video clip or some things or some games or other activities or pictures of their parents or grandparents along with others, something that will pique their interests so that they will want to help us perpetuate the legacy of Lincoln High School, which is part of our mission statement and our purpose. So,





that’s what we’re looking at doing, because that’s something that we haven’t given much thought to, but we need to, because one day, there won’t be no more Lincolnians. So we’ve got to do that.

	AW:	Albert White, you’re an educator, an entrepreneur, a community leader. What is it that you have left to do? What’s left on your agenda?

	MW:	Well, I don’t want this to be misconstrued but, of course, I get asked quite a bit if I’d run for office, which I don’t want, because I need freedom. I need a lot of freedom to do the things that I do. Thank God that my wife appreciates that, because she needs a lot of freedom to do the things that she wants, too, because she’s equally as busy. But effecting change, I think, never gets old.

Helping folks never gets old. So there’s still so much need out there that I know that part of my life is going to continue. Mentoring never gets old. Our young males, which is extremely important to me, need all the help that they can get. We’re going to continue to expand and who what we can for our young males, even those who may have been incarcerated or have had some issues with the law. And that’s another thing that I did have the opportunity to begin to address on my second tour duty at the company that I retired from when they asked me to come back. I was asked to come back for three months, and ended up staying almost ten years. But we began to have those conversations. We created some opportunities for some of them to be able to come back and get a job with the organization that I was with. So, the need is out there. Gosh, there’s so much to do yet. So, to answer your question, I don’t know if I can give you a specific answer other than to tell you that I guess I’m strapped and I’m stuck with this





notion that you can always make a difference. And, I guess, making a difference is what I’m about. I don’t know that I’m going to ever really stop doing that, while it does get difficult sometimes and it gets discouraging sometimes. I don’t know that I’m ever going to stop. I’m trying really to ratchet down. I’m trying to ratchet down.

	MW:	Mr. White, what is your definition of leadership?



	AW:	It’s so interesting. I think leadership is people. And what I mean by that is, I’ve seen people in leadership roles who’ve had very little success in really getting much done. Now, there is a certain amount of strength that you do need in leadership. I think that people crave leadership. I honestly believe that. That was my managing style when I worked at GRU and at the Chamber. People want to be led, but they want to be led by someone that they can believe in, they can trust, and they can respect. A leadership has to have vision. A leadership has to know how to push buttons, and how to access resources. So my definition of leadership, for one, is somebody who really loves people, because we need people. When you really love people, you’re able to get people to move. You can mobilize. I’ve always felt like a good leader was one who, number one, allowed others who he or she might lead to spread their wings and fly and be there for them to ensure their success. Now, does that success means you allow them just to go off and do whatever they want to do when they want to do it? No. What you’re doing is just guiding that enthusiasm, that energy. But at the same time you’re encouraging, you’re providing resources for them, and you’re helping them along. Because I chair so many different kinds of events and initiatives and it





runs a gamut, it could be something that’s community-wide. It could be a committee or it could be a board. It could be from the Credit Union, and I had that privilege to chair for a number of years. It could be an American Cancer Society Relay for Life. It requires different kinds of leaderships. It could be a Division Head at a GRU, which I certainly did for a number of years. Or it could be a church committee, or it could be a group of men who want to mentor. It just depends. You know, when you all over the place, there are certain kinds of skills that apply to get things done, and that’s what leadership really boils down to. But all of those things you do through people. So, it’s always gets us back to people, and knowing how to deal with people, and there’s not a hodgepodge when you deal with people. There are some things that are just absolute when you want to get people to move for you. I count it a blessing that I’ve had that privilege that God would allow me to have whatever qualities that it takes to be able to work well with groups of people, and to somehow or another to end up in the leadership role in many instances. And those people have made whatever it was successful, and you make sure that you give them that credit, because they deserve it. Because I don’t think any leader can do anything without people. You just can’t. So, I don’t want to simplify leadership. I mean, dissertations are done on leadership. And my wife and I have toyed with the idea of maybe doing some consulting along those lines, because, I guess one of my, and her, strongest attributes as managers was the fact of dealing with difficult employees. Guess what? They weren’t really so difficult; it was just how people who had them





problems dealt with them. So, it’s about people. I don’t want to simplify that, but it really is. It’s about people.

	MW:	Would you share—and this is very personal, so if you choose not to, it’s okay— would you share a regret and an inspiration that you have?

	AW:	Yeah. That I didn’t become a doctor. MW:	Medical doctor?

	AW:	Yes. I was a pre-med major. Didn’t quite get there. Came back here, and they wanted me to go through a Master’s program. And you know, that’s cool. The GPA wasn’t where they were requiring at that time, but that was something that I wanted to do. And it’s so funny, because when I go back to Homecoming—my wife and I go back to A&T every year for Homecoming, and I go back for the basketball tournament. There are people who were in school with me, but we lost touch, because when I left, they didn’t know where I ended up. And then someone asked, “Are you a doctor now?” And a lot of the kids that I went to Lincoln went who left, and some of them would ask me, “Did you ever become a doctor?” Well, no, I didn’t, but that was a passion that I had, because I always loved sciences, as I told you, and that was just something I felt like I wanted to do from the time I was in like about seventh grade. I started telling my mother I wanted to be a doctor. So I regret not having done that, because I should have. If I had been just a little bit more attentive to my college years. You know, being an athlete, it does take you away. Swimming is a long season, and it’s hard. But I could’ve done a little bit better in some classes. When I got married, my grade point average—I was almost 4 point student once I got married, it’s so weird. But,





I could’ve been doing that all along, but there were so many other things. I’ve always liked to do stuff, always doing something. And I could’ve done a little bit better there. But that is a regret that I do have that I didn’t pull the course. Of course, my daughter is in her last year. She’ll be a doctor in a very short time now. She’s in there going through her matching and all of that stuff now, and ending up wherever her residency is gonna be. And I’m so proud of her, because I watched her be an athlete in high school and college. She kept in her track team at FAMU, two years—junior and senior year; she was Miss FAMU; but yet she still maintained a very high grade point average; and she did a lot of community stuff so she’s got of lot of me in her that way. And now she’s about to be a doctor.

	MW:	Would you say that that is your inspiration then there? Or what is it that inspires you?

	AW:	Golly, I don’t know. What? Why? I don’t know. This is more like you’re a psychiatrist and I’m here getting counseling. What inspires me? [long pause] I think being a Black male and being looked upon so negatively, historically; that’s what keeps me going. Disproving people. That, hey, some of us, we can do it.

We got our stuff together. We can move, and shake, and we can motivate. We can mediate, and God knows we have to meditate. But we can do it, and we can move across lines, and we can sit at the table. And then I can go down to the Elks Club and I can talk to folks and be right at home. So, I think you got to be able to wheel and deal at the board table and then at the supper table. And then you got to be able to get out into the community, and you got to be able to go, as





we say, out east or in Porter’s, or wherever, and just talk to people. You know, I work out three or four days a week. I could be at the Gainesville Health & Fitness Club if I wanted to. Sure. But you know where I go? I go up to the MLK Center, because that’s where the peoples is, okay? That’s where the folks who will come up to me and ask me questions about what’s going on down town, “why aren’t they doing more for this part of town,” “who can I talk to,” “Mr. White, will you talk to this person,” “will you talk to that person for us?” And that’s what keeps me going. And that happens all the time by phone, and, you know, I do a program for the East Gainesville Development Corporations called Project Empowerment, where we’re trying to empower people by helping them. We pay their utility bill, and we also teach them some conservation measures to lower their utility bill. So I get the opportunity to do a little class with the people, and I get a lot of calls about people who are just in distress and they can’t afford to pay their utility bills. So, I listen to a lot of stories, and when I listen to the stories, I find out that it’s more than just that, and then I might say ‘have you ever tried this’ and ‘did you try that’, and ‘let me call this person for you’, ‘let me get back to you’, ‘let me have this person call you’. So, you helping. You helping. So, I guess that’s what keeps me going. And I’m not masochistic at all. Please don’t think that I am. I don’t love punishment, but I must get some kind of enjoyment out of it because I keep doing it. So, I guess that’s where my passion is.

MW: Well, we’re fortunate to be able to share that passion with you and just have this glimpse of Albert White and your contributions and your history. On behalf of the Sam Proctor Oral History Program, I want to thank you for participating in this





interview, and I’d like to invite you to please allow us to speak with you again. There’s so much more about your business history and leadership in the community, your history of the University or Florida that we’re unable to talk about in just one interview, but I’d like to, again, thank you.

	AW:	Absolutely.



	MW:	And I’d like to close the interview by giving you the opportunity to reflect on anything that happened during the interview or something we didn’t talk about or just a message that you’d like to leave. And at the conclusion of your remarks, that will conclude the interview.

	AW:	Okay, well I think that this is a good experience. You know what? I didn’t realize it was going to be emotional, but it is. When you start talking about your history, I can see how this can happen. And I may be just weird here, but I think when you really reflect back on your life and what this has done—I look through my scrapbook and see some of the very things that we’ve talked about, but it doesn’t really move me. But, when someone is sitting in front of you and you actually reflecting and you starting to feel some of the emotions that you had at the time, it does get to you. So, I guess, I’m me. I don’t know if this is going to come across on the video or not, but we’re sitting up here by the fire about some of this stuff. But, this has been a very enlightening experience for me. It’s been an emotional experience, but it’s also been very positive and enjoyable having to sit here and reflect based on the questions that you’ve asked me about various times of occurrences in my life. And I’m glad that we did it, and I thoroughly enjoyed it, quite frankly, to be able to talk about some of it. I greatly appreciate





your asking me to do this, but I had no idea it was going to be as emotional as it’s been this morning, which is good. That’s a good thing. So, thank you, sir. Thank you very much.

[End of interview]





	Audit edited by:	Ryan Morini, July 29, 2014 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 16, 2019