AAHP 299; Harris; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 299 Eula Harris

African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Ryan Morini and Mathis Harris Jr. on April 11, 2013 2 hours, 42 minutes | 89 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 299

Interviewee: Eula Harris

Interviewer: Ryan Morini, with Matthis Harris Jr. Date: April 11, 2013



	M:	This is Ryan Morini with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. It’s April 11, 2013. I’m sitting here with Eula Harris. That’s right?

	H:	Uh-huh.



	M:	Okay. Thanks for sitting down with me today. Could I ask when you were born? H:	November 26.

	M:	Of what year?



	H:	1916.



	M:	1916. And your full name is Eula. That’s E-U-L-A. What’s the M for?



	H:	Eula Mae Harris. That’s my married name. But my name before I got married, the last name was Daniels.

	M:	Daniels. So that’s the maiden name. Okay, and where were you born?



	H:	I was born in—I believe it was Perry. I’m from Perry. Hampton Springs, Florida.



Hampton Springs, Florida.



	M:	Hampton Springs, Florida. Which is near Perry? H:	Mmhm.

	M:	Were you born in a hospital there or was there a midwife there or what was— H:	I don’t know that part of it. [Laughter]

	M:	You would have been young to remember. Well, so, did you grow up—did you live in Hampton Springs for a while?

	H:	My daddy used to run the boarding house for a sawmill firm, and it was something like a hotel. And he would, wherever the company would send him





that’s where he would go. And so we lived a lot of different places, but I can’t think of all them different places right now.

	M:	Well, you don’t have to get them all. So he was working in Hampton Springs when you were born, is that right?

	H:	That’s where I was born. Uh-huh. M:	Who was your father?

	H:	His name was Robert Daniels. M:	Where was he from?

	H:	I don’t know. I’ll have to ask. I don’t know where he was from. Alabama? But anyway, I tell you what: my mother, they would used to have this picnic, the twentieth of May, out in west Florida. And they would have an excursion. A bus would come from Alabama I think and go on through west Florida and go to Hampton Springs and, let me see, what’s the name of them places? [Pause] I can’t think of the name of the place now. They would have this big picnic on the twentieth of May, and she met my daddy. He sat next to her on the bus. The bus would come from Alabama and, to west Florida. West Florida was—let me see if I can get it together. Hampton Springs, that was out from—I can’t think right now, out from—

	MH:	Chattahoochee?



	H:	Chattahoochee? Chattahoochee was out from what place, Mathis?



	MH:	Don’t ask me Momma. I can’t try to help you. I’m not being recorded—you’re being recorded.

	M:	We’re getting the idea here. What was your mother’s name?





	H:	Mary Matilla McMillian, that was her name ‘fo she got married. M:	Matilla?

	H:	Mmhm.



	M:	How do you spell Matilla?



	H:	I don’t know. [Laughter] But, anyway, my daddy was living in Alabama, I think that bus would come from Alabama and go through west Florida to— Chattahoochee was by the river, and would go to, I can’t think of the name of the place where they used to have this picnic. The twentieth of May. And she sat on the bus right by him going to this place where they had this picnic and somehow or ‘nother, he talked to her and she talked to him and he come back to see her that weekend. And then the next weekend he come back and they got married. That’s what she told me.

	M:	Wow.



	H:	Mmhm. And that was out from Perry, Florida. And Hampton Springs is by the river. And they would have this big picnic the twentieth of May. And I can’t think of the name of the—was it Perry?

	M:	Of the place they had the picnic?



	H:	They’d have this big picnic, the twentieth of May. I can’t think of the name of the place right now.

	M:	Did you go to that picnic when you were growing up?



	H:	No. Unh-uh. I didn’t never live out there. That was when she was living. When she was living.

	M:	Is that where her family was from? Where did she grow up?





	H:	She grew up out there to Hampton Springs—I mean to, let me see what’s the name, River Junction. By the river. I think it was out from Perry up in there somewhere out there in west Florida. ‘Cause I went out there and visit but I can’t think right now. That’s reason I say I wish you would come back another time, ‘cause I don’t feel so good today. And I can’t think.

		M:	That happens, but you’re already remembering a lot, so it’s—if you’re	Let’s



see, did you visit that area where your mother grew up very much?



	H:	No. I went out there one, two times and that was it.



	M:	Where did you actually grow up? Where do you remember growing up?



	H:	Well, my daddy, wherever this here company would send him with the mill, he would run the hotel for the company. And wherever they would send him that’s where he would go.

	M:	So you just remember moving a lot.



	H:	Uh-huh. Moved around a lot from different places and the last places was in Georgia.

	M:	Okay. Whereabouts in Georgia?



	H:	Place called Lumber City Georgia. That’s where he bought a home there and he worked in. Let me see, I think it was place he called [inaudible 07:39] South Carolina is where the hotel or the mill was or whatever it was. And he didn’t want us raised up on the sawmill firm and he bought a home up in Georgia. Some people that he knowed told him bout this little town up in Georgia that he could have his farm and he could do this and he could do that and they ‘cruited him, whatever you call it, up to this place called Lumber City, Georgia.





	M:	So, he wanted to keep his kids away from the sawmill firm, is that right?



	H:	Mmhm. He wanted to keep us away from that, ‘cause all kinda people were there and what not and he didn’t want us raised up ‘round the mill people, whatever you call them kinda people.

	M:	Do you remember any of those mill people or you never saw them? H:	Oh yeah, I saw ‘em, but I can’t remember their names now.

	M:	What do you remember about them?



	H:	Well, I can remember him running the big boarding house, like a hotel. And a lot of people stayed there and worked at the saw mill.

	M:	I mean, were you scared of those mill people when you were a kid or didn’t really think about it?

	H:	Not really, but there was just all kinds of people and he just didn’t want us chilren raised up on the sawmill firm place, ‘round all of those different kind of people. ‘Cause all kind of people worked to the mill.

	M:	I can imagine. Well, so did you go to church growing up?



	H:	Mmhm. Oh, my daddy and mother were very religious. We were raised up in the church. AME Methodist church. African Methodist Church. My daddy and mother, they was very religious people.

	M:	But with all the moving you had to go to different churches I guess, right? H:	Oh, yeah.

	M:	Did you just go to whichever church was nearby? H:	Mmhm. Go to a different church.

	M:	Did that make it tough to make friends or what—





	H:	Well, somehow or another I did know quite a few chilrens and whatnot. And I remember one little ole girl said to me one day—she little ole girl—she said, “Y’all think you’re rich.” [Laughter] I aingt know nothing ‘bout what rich was. [Laughter] They were jealous and she was jealous of us for some reason. Well, my daddy worked hard and he made a good living for us, I can tell you that. He did real good. And these people, whatchamacallit, ‘cruited him up to Georgia and told him, say, “You can have you a farm and all of that.” And he bought this place way from the— whatever you call that sawmill firm where he was working at. He bought a home up in Georgia and that’s where we lived. And he still run the place. And we would go and visit and everything, but he didn’t want us to grow up ‘round all kind of people, ‘cause so many people wasn’t such a good people, I don’t think.

	M:	How did he travel back and forth? Did he have a car or did he—



	H:	The horse and buggy. And then later on he got a car. Before the car. But at first we travel by horse and buggy from Georgia to Florida.

	M:	How long did that take?



	H:	It took a good while I can remember. I was a little ole child, but I remember that. M:	What were the roads like back then?

	H:	Well, it was dirt roads. I can remember when they were putting the—whatcha call that?—asphalt on the road. It was dirt roads, and we would drive horse and buggy from Lumber City, Georgia to [inaudible 12:02] South Carolina.

	M:	Wow. That’s a ways.





	H:	It was a long ways. And would be other people out there with horse and buggies on them dirt roads. And we could hear them horses’ feets hitting the ground. I can remember it well.

	M:	So you’d pass a lot of people on that same road?



	H:	Mmhm. Lots of people would be out there with the horse and buggy.



	M:	What’d you do when you had to—I mean, did you just sleep in the buggy or did you camp out?

	H:	We sleep in the—drive up in some kinda place where you could, under a tree somewhere and sit up in the car, I mean in the buggy. And we would sleep. Take us some nods. And would be plenty of people with the horse and buggies now.

Plenty of people passing. You wouldn’t be on the road by yourself. There’d be plenty company.

	M:	Sounds that way. I mean, going from Georgia through South Carolina though, that, I would think that could have been a dangerous trip sometimes if you were Black back then—

	H:	Well, somehow or ‘nother, ‘nothin bothered us.



	M:	Do you remember your parents being worried about anything or they just kinda did it?

	H:	They didn’t seem to be worried. It was plenty mo’ horses and buggies out there. M:	Long as there’s traffic I guess—

	H:	And you could hear them horse and buggy and—what you call it, the mule or the horse—you’d hear them feets. [Laughter] And when you get tired, you just drive





up find a place under a tree somewhere and get you some rest. And they would have some hay and stuff for the mule to eat.

	M:	Well you said you went to South Carolina a couple times, is that right? H:	Mmhm.

	M:	For what?



	H:	That’s where we lived for a while. And then, later on, this particular man was working there and he told my daddy ‘bout up in Georgia. And that’s how we got to Georgia. He bought a home up there and a farm and that’s where he had his farm at. Up in Georgia.

	M:	Do you remember much about that house that you lived at in Georgia? H:	Yeah, we had a big nice house. Big nice house.

	M:	What do you remember best about it?



	H:	Well, I just remember it being a—it had, let me see, kitchen and dining room and one bedroom along this side the hall and another one was on this side the hall and another one was on that side the hall and another one was on this side the hall. That was up in Georgia. And we’d go to the South Carolina and visit, but he didn’t want us raised up ‘round the people. There was all kinds of people from what I can understand. And he didn’t want to raise us up ‘round them kind, all kind of peoples.

	M:	Was there a school in Lumber City? H:	Yeah.

	M:	What was the school like?





	H:	It was nice. I went to school there. It was, it wasn’t—well, it wasn’t the very best of schools. It was a—I tell you what, at that time school was segregated, you went to the Black school and the Whites went to the white school. And it went to ‘bout seventh or sixth or seventh grade, something like that. And my mother let me come here and stay with my aunt so I could go to high school. It didn’t go to twelfth grade. And that’s how I got down here. And I got married down here and stayed here.

	M:	Must have liked it.



	H:	Well, I must be did. [Laughter] I didn’t get the best of a husband, I can tell you that!

	M:	How many siblings do you have?



	H:	Three. I got that one there and I got another son that lives in New York. He the oldest one. And then my daughter, who lives here. Her and her husband.

	M:	Oh, no, no. Your own—your brothers and sisters. How many of those were there?

	H:	Oh, I’m the oldest. I had two brothers and both my brothers is dead. M:	Oh, okay. But you were all living there together in Lumber City?

	H:	Oh, yeah. We all lived together. But they died when they was grown people. M:	I see. What about your grandparents? Did you ever meet them or talk to them?

	H:	I met them I think up—I visited them one or two times out there out from—let me see what the name of that place . . . Mathis, River Junction was out somewhere?

	MH:	Chattahoochee.





	H:	Uh-huh. Yeah, where they send the crazy people. And River Junction was out by the river and that’s where my mother was raised, up there.

	M:	And so you met your grandparents—



	H:	And the way she got away from there, as I told you, they would go to this picnic every twentieth of May. And where was that picnic at, Mathis? Can you think where it was?

	MH:	You’re talking to the interviewer, not me. H:	Huh?

	MH:	I don’t know.



	H:	I can’t think where that picnic was now, but they would go to this picnic and the bus would come from . . . Alabama, I believe. And come on through Chattahoochee, Florida out from, what’s the name of that place where I told you ‘bout the crazy people? Mathis?

	MH:	Momma, don’t call me. I’m not in the interview. It’s Chattahoochee, though. What you do is just keep talking and then we’ll figure out what you missed, okay, later on. You don’t have to know everything now.

	M:	Yeah, we can figure some stuff out later. Do you remember much about your grandparents?

	H:	Not a whole lot, but I do remember them. M:	So you did meet them?

	H:	‘Cause my mother didn’t go back there and visit a whole lot. ‘Cause, see, my daddy was running this—what do they call it, a juke? It was supposed to be a hotel or whatever you call it. And he travelled from one place to the other. South





Carolina and different places. And somehow or ‘nother this particular man was workin there and told him ‘bout this place up, told him ‘bout Georgia. And told him, say he’d have his farm. ‘Cause my daddy loveded to farm. And he had a farm and this little ole place and had them big ole roads that go round in this. [Laughter] And I being a girl, I worked like a boy.

	M:	Oh yeah?



	H:	Mmhm.



	M:	They had you out there doing chores, huh?



H:  Didn’t make no difference ‘bout me being a girl. I worked out there in the field just like a boy.

	M:	What’d he have in the fields?



H:  All kind of stuff. Corn, peas, beans, and cotton. He didn’t plant tobacco; he said it was a sin to raise tobacco. But he planted corn, peas, beans, cotton. All different stuff.

M:   Did you sell it? Did you eat it, use it, or what—



	H:	It seems to me like he sold some of it. No, I don’t think he sold it, but different ones. They was farms. Different people had farms. And just like if, if your farm, you had peas right now, the neighbor, you would give some to them. You understand what I’m trying to say?

	M:	Kind of barter? H:	Uh-huh.

	M:	You got some peas now and they’ll have something else later, and so you kinda—





	H:	And they would give it to one another. They didn’t sell it to one another, they would give it to one another. And we always had plenty to eat, plenty of vegetables. And he had pigs, cows, mules.

	M:	Did he make bacon, anything like that?



	H:	Oh, yeah. I can remember him taking the stuff to the—what you call that kind of place where you would take the meat and they would cure it?

	M:	Like a smokehouse?



	H:	Yeah. Smokehouse. Yeah we always had plenty to eat. Bacon and we had plenty of pigs . . . mules, cows.

	M:	You were eating good, sounds like.



	H:	Yeah, we always had plenty to eat. We never went hungry or nothing. M:	Did you ever go fishing or anything like that?

	H:	Well now my mother and father didn’t fish. But it was a lady that was the next door neighbor and she had—I think she was a preacher’s wife, and I think the husband had died, I believe, and she had two daughters and two sons and she was a big ole fat lady. And the Ocmulgee River was right there we was living. And my mother would let me go fishing with her. And we would walk the trestle. And the bridge was right over here, now, but this here big fat lady would walk that trestle. Ocmulgee River up in Georgia. You ever heard talk of the Ocmulgee River?

	M:	I’ve heard of it. Never been there.



	H:	And she would walk the trestle instead of coming round to the bridge. She would walk the trestle. And somehow or ‘nother I mentioned to my mother that we





walked the trestle. Then my mother stopped me from going fishing with her, ‘cause she was afraid I might fall in the river. And the bridge was right ‘round here. We could come on ‘round there an [inaudible 22:49] was talkin bout how she would walk the trestle instead of coming round to the bridge.

	M:	But she didn’t fall?



	H:	No, we didn’t fall in the river. And she couldn’t swim and I couldn’t swim. But, anyway, that’s the last place where we lived and my mother let me come down here and stay with my aunt so I could go to old Lincoln.

	M:	How did they hear about Lincoln? Was that from your aunt? H:	Oh, this was the—Lincoln is over there now, at the school.

	M:	How did they know about it up in Georgia, though? ‘Cause they weren’t from here.

	H:	Well, see, my aunt lived here.



	M:	So she knew there was a school here?



		H:	Uh-huh. And she had chilrens and what not. That was my momma’s sister. And she let me come and stay with them so I could go to	‘Cause this school up in

Georgia, I think it went to ‘bout sixth grade or something like that. And so when I come down here, this school went to twelfth grade.

	M:	So how old were you when you moved down here?



H:  I think when I come down here maybe I was bout sixteen or seventeen. Sixteen years old, something like that. And I stayed down here and never went back up there to stay. Got married down here. And got three chilren.

M:   How’d you get here to Gainesville? Did you take a horse again or did you take—





H:   I come on the bus.



M:  What was your first thought? Do you remember your first impression or your first memory of Gainesville?

H:  Well . . . I had a cousin, my aunt had a daughter was ‘bout the same age as me. And she was a hairdresser, she did hair. And, I don’t know, I went to old Lincoln. And I didn’t finish because I up and got married.

M:   Ah, before you finished.



	H:	Mmhm. And I can remember A. Quinn Jones School, that was the name of it, and one day when I was walking and Professor Jones passed by me. And he saw me and he picked me up and gave me a ride. And I talked about coming back to school and he told me I could come back, but I never did go back there. ‘Cause I didn’t finish. I up and got married.

	M:	How long did you go to Lincoln?



	H:	I went for about two or three years, something like that.



	M:	So you were going there in the early [19]30s maybe? Thereabouts, is that right? H:	I can’t think right now.

	M:	That’s okay. By the way, what was your aunt’s name? You said you came down—

	H:	Mattie Ivory. That was the husband’s name, which she had then. But her daughter told me one day, said, “She’d been married seven times.” So I don’t know. That was my momma’s sister. She was older than my momma.

	M:	So it was Mattie something?





	H:	Mattie Ivory. But they said she done—the daughter told me one day, said, “Momma married seven times.” And from what I can understand, didn’t get no divorce from nary one of them husbands. She married seven times, had seven husbands. And she was a preacher woman.

	M:	Oh was she?



	H:	Baptist preacher.



	M:	Where’d she preach?



	H:	Well she belongded to a the church by the name of Mount Moriah. And I used to go to that church with ‘em and whatnot.

	M:	I see. So that was your church after you came in. So where were you living? H:	I was living with my aunt.

	M:	Well, where’d she live? H:	Over in Porters.

M:  Oh, down in Porters. Okay. Whereabouts? Do you remember? H:  Let me see if I can tell you. Do you know where old Lincoln is? M:  Yeah.

H:   I’m trying to think. What’s—



	M:	Porters be south of there. That’s—do you remember what street you were on? H:	Market Street. West Market Street.

M:   So what do you remember about Porters?



	H:	Well, lots of people was over there. Black people and whatnot and the people was friendly, nice and I enjoyed being down there.

M:   Liked the neighborhood?





	H:	Uh-huh. I made friends with chilrens and whatnot. Young chilrens that my age was in the neighborhood and whatnot.

	M:	I know they used to have a couple of juke joints down there. Did you ever go to any of those, or you were too young and then you moved out or what was—

	H:	Well, my aunt was a preacher woman. M:	Oh, yeah. [Laughter]

	H:	And I couldn’t go to them kind of places. If I went, I had to slip and go. But I tell you one thing: after I was in high school and everything, I’ma tell you what. Them people what had them little places, runnin them places on Fifth Avenue, was selling whiskey—or I guess it was moonshine, I reckon, I don’t know what it was. But, anyway, the classmates, the class what I was in, some of them drank, and they would sell it to them chilren. But somehow or ‘nother, let me tell you what: I never cared for drinkin. Mmhm. Never cared for it. Never was a drinker. And I can remember J.C. Rawls was my classmate. And we was once—I’m tryin to think, well some kinda something we went to, seem like it was down to Ocala or some way. And he was sittn up there with his ginger ale in the glass—just like a glass, something like that—sipping it like he was sipping whiskey. He didn’t drink either. And he was sippin his ginger ale like he was drinkin whiskey and I teased him about it. He was my classmate. [Laughter] And J.C. Rawls is still living. You know him, don’t you? You met him.

	M:	Mmhm.



	H:	That was my classmate.





	M:	And he taught at Lincoln for quite a while after he graduated, too. What do you remember about him when you were going to school with him?

	H:	He was a nice person. Very nice person. He had a younger brother and he had an older brother and the momma and daddy. I think the daddy worked at a hotel or something or ‘nother and their momma was a beautician. I remember them. They were nice people. I remember them well.

	M:	Speaking of beauticians. Where did you get your hair cut when you were living here?

	H:	Well, my cousin, Mary—my aunt Mattie’s daughter—she had took up beauty culture. And she did hair, and she would do my hair. And had my hair looking good when I go to school.

	M:	Do you remember any events, dances, that Lincoln did? Or prom, or any kind of stuff like that?

	H:	Mmhm. I remember some of that stuff. I went to it. I told you that J.C. was sitting up there. I can’t think of what that was where we went to that night. And he was sitting up there with his glass with ginger ale in it, sipping it like he was drinking whiskey. But he didn’t drink. He didn’t drink. He wasn’t no drunkard. His momma was a hairdresser and I think the daddy worked to a hotel or something like that. Nice people. And he lived out there to—Mathis, where did J.C. Rawls live?

	MH:	I’m not answering any questions, now. He’s interviewing you. M:	We can find it. We can—

	H:	Well, he’s still living out there, out from here. ‘Cause I’m thinkin about calling him some. Him and his wife.





	M:	So what do you remember about Fifth Avenue? Did you go up there very often? H:	Oh, I remember it well.

	M:	Oh yeah?



	H:	Mmhm! Fifth Avenue was something. They was selling dope over there on Fifth Avenue under them street lights at night and—oh, it was something over there. It was bad over there. It wasn’t a good part of town to live if you want to know the truth. But somehow or ‘nother, I didn’t get mixed up in none of that.

	M:	And that’s even back when you first moved here it was like that? Or was that later?

	H:	Well, when I first moved here, now, and I was a teenager, well, them chilren what I went to school with, some of them was pretty bad. They wasn’t such good chilrens. Llaughter]. And they drank and they would buy the whiskey from people who would be selling it and whatnot. Them people what that running them little places and whatnot. They’d sell it to the teenagers. But somehow or ‘nother, I don’t know why, I just never cared for it. Never got mixed up with it. I tried to learn how to drink it and everything, but I just wasn’t a drinking kind. And I thank God to David I wasn’t the drinking kind. And the J.C. Rawls what I’m telling ya bout now, he wasn’t a drunkard, either. He was my classmate, and he was sitting up with his ginger ale, sipping it just like he was drinking whiskey. He was a nice person, nice person.

	M:	It sounds it. Did you ever go to the movie theater on Fifth Avenue? H:	Mmhm.

	M:	What was the first movie you saw; do you remember?





	H:	I can’t remember the first movie what I saw, but I can remember this: after I had done got married and everything—well, I had a husband at that time, my husband was living and me and him was together. And one of the neighbors across the street from me, this lady mother got sick. And she was working—let’s see, where was she working after [inaudible 34:04]? Well, anyway, wherever Alcimide was working, she couldn’t go to work and she had to stay home with her mother some, and this neighbor and her was good friends. And I had gone to the movie that night. The movie—like my house was right here, and the Seventh Day Adventist church was right here, and then the cab stand—that was when I was living on Fifth Avenue. And the movies was right there by the cab stand. And I had gone to the movie. And Alcimide or, what was her name? Mabel Parker.

They had went to the house looking for me, and my husband told them that I had gone to the movie. And they come to the movie and was standing outside waiting for me when I come out. And I was working just like four hours here and four hours there. And at that particular time, I was working a little bit in the homes, wasn’t workin at the Reitz Union then. And Mabel told Alcimide that I was working a little bit part time and what not. And Alcimide, they wanted me to work in her place, ‘cause she had a steady job and everything. And I decided, I told em, I said, well I’ll have to give up some of them little extra jobs what I got working here and there, like three-and-a-half hours or four-and-a-half hours, something like that. And so they said they would wait for me to get myself straightened out. And I went to work at the Reitz Union. She was working at the Reitz Union and Mabel was working at the Reitz Union. And Mabel was my





neighbor and she knew that I was working a little bit here and there. You know, families, like that. And I think she thought that it would be good for me to work in the afternoon place cause Alcimide had a regular job, but it wasn’t but like three- and-a-half hours and four-and-a-half-hours. And it was about three days a week, something like that. And I was working for like, this family a little bit and that family a little bit. And I told ‘em I would have to get myself straightened out with different people what I was working for and let ‘em know I wasn’t coming back.

And I decided I would go and take the job what they was telling me about. And that was at the Reitz Union, the old Reitz Union.

	M:	Did that come with health benefits and all that?



	H:	Well at that time the director wasn’t paying social security himself . And I can remember one day when he called me into the office and told me, said, “Eula Mae, we gone have to pay social security now.” ‘Cause when I first went to the Reitz Union, it was in the old building, and he wasn’t paying it his own self.

	M:	If we can backtrack just a little, see, you did some domestic work after—actually let’s start with, when did you get married? You were going to high school. How did that—how’d you meet?

	H:	Well, [laugher] let me tell you. This fella I would visit from Seventh Day Adventist people, they was neighbors and friends. And I would visit them sometime, and they had a brother. And my husband and that brother, they was friends and one night when I would go to they house—see we were visiting, you know, just sitting down laughing and talking just like us is doing now. He came up with they brother and they introduced me to him. And he had been married and his wife had died





and he claimed he wanted another wife. And, I don’t know, after that and they introduced me to him just like every day he would come by when I was living with my aunt and them, and say something or ‘nother to me. And, I don’t know, somehow or ‘nother he made like he wanted another wife and me and him got married. But I should’ve never married him. He was a mechanic. He worked on cars and he was a preacher’s son, and I just thought he was a nice person, but he wasn’t such a nice person. And that was my, who I got married to and that’s my chilren’s daddy. That’s two of the chilren’s daddy. And I don’t know, somehow or ‘nother, later on down the line, my neighbors, he would go out there and get drunk, and drink. And he had been married before. His wife had died. And he pretended like he wanted another wife. And the wife’s mother, here’s what I understand about it: this girl got pregnant for somebody, and this particular man what I married was living with a woman who had a—she was a girlfriend or whatever. And big fat lady from what I understand, I learnt that later on. And him and her had had a—what they call itself? I think splitting up. And he got a room to this particular lady’s house. And from what I can understand he had roomed there for quite a while. And she used to pass where he was working at, this girl did. And he would pick at her. And one day when he was got a room and had left the big fat woman what he was livin with—I found out all this later on now, I didn’t know all this ‘fore I got married to him now—he was out on the back porch washing his face and hands. That’s what he told me, he told me this after me and him got married and all, and this girl came out, just like this the back porch and he was washing his face and hands on the back porch he was rooming at. He





done caught his self left the woman he what he was staying with, from what I understand. But I didn’t know all of this before I got married to him, now. And she came out, just like we out here and was washing his face and hands. And he looked around and there was a girl what he used to pick at when she passed his job. And he asked her, said, “Where did you come from?” They told me about it, the momma and everything, her momma and all. And she said, “I live here.” And he say, he had been rooming there for I forget how long and never did see her.

And, to tell you the truth about it, her momma, they belongded to what you call it the Holiness Church. And they was the kind of people that was kinda—I don’t know, seem like they kind of secretive people, kept they business to they self or something or ‘nother. And this girl had got pregnant. And after him and this woman had broke up, and he got a room to this lady’s house, and this particular girl was at the house where the girl was what would pass his job and he would pick at her, is the one that lived there. And he [laughter] I’m gone tell you what that he told me about it. Told me, say, after he found out that was the same girl— they told me that after we got married now, that was later on. That would pass his job and he would pick at her. She had got pregnant for another boy and this boy .

. . I’m gone tell you what the mother told me. Said that he was a person didn’t like to work. And this here man what I got married to later on, he got a room at that particular house, see, and he saw the girl what he would pick at when she’d pass his job. And he told her, guess what he told me, said that at night they were two doors there together and the bed was up against the door and they would push the beds aside and they would get in the [laughter] bed together. And somehow





or ‘nother, back in them days if you got pregnant and had a baby and wasn’t married, you was counted as nothing. And I think what happened, by her being a member of the Holiness Church and whatnot, she was glad that this man married her daughter. ‘Cause she told me about it. And somehow or ‘nother they were nice people. And what I was gone tell you, is . . . then he went to courting the girl what would pass his job, and that’s where she lived. And he told me, said, he been livin there, she died and he told me he had been living there for quite a while and never did see her. And happened he was on the back porch washing his face and hands and she come out the door. And say he asked her, say, “Where did you come from?” She say, “I live here.” And he said then they started a courtship and they got married. She was already pregnant for another boy. And I remember the boy, because the little girl what she had, the grandmother had the little girl. And somehow or ‘nother I was going down Fifth Avenue one day, that was after me and him had got married and everything, and the girl what— wait, I’m getting ahead of the story. What happened, the girl and him got married, and I think the momma was glad that he married her daughter. Because back in them days if you got pregnant and had a baby and wasn’t married you was counted as nothing. And she appreciated him marrying her daughter and she was very nice to him, very nice. And her daughter died, she died later on. And this little girl, she was a little ole girl—somehow or ‘nother I told you ‘bout he, I had met him by visiting the Seventh Day Adventist people, cause his wife had died and he was a single person again and everything. And he was . . . anyway, the little girl, I had her with me one day and we was going down Fifth Avenue,





and the boy what was that other girl’s daddy had got the girl pregnant, he come up to me and he said [inaudible 46:15] name was James. He say this little girl had this—chilren back in them day they’d something or ‘nother you call infantigo, and you would break all out. I don’t know if you remember all of that or not.

	M:	I’ve heard of it. I know what you’re talking about.



	H:	The little girl had broke out with that and the grandmamma was taking her to the doctor and whatnot. And I had the little girl with me one day and was down on Fifth Avenue, going down the street, and this baby daddy came up to me and said to me, said, he was interested in his little girl and is we doing anything for her. I said her grandmother has took her to the doctor and got medication for her and everything. And he went on ‘bout his business. But he told me he was interested in the little girl. And he was the daddy; he was the little girl’s daddy.

And Ms. Ethel, which was the girl what died and was the little girl’s momma, she told me that this boy didn’t like to work, And when Matthis, my husband, got a room at the house and everything, and he had been picking at this girl and everything. He the one married her. Do you understand what I’m trying to say? But the little girl was not his. And, anyway, back in them days, this lady: I’m gone tell you how it goes. She was glad that this man married her daughter, ‘cause if you got pregnant back in them days and had a baby and wasn’t married you was kinda considered as nothing. Considered as trash. You might remember hearing about it. Did you?

	M:	Hm?





	H:	Did you ever hear about something like that? When you got pregnant and had a baby and wasn’t married you was counted as nothing? And he married this lady’s daughter and she was already pregnant with this little girl. And she was very nice to him, very nice to him. And I think she appreciated him marrying her daughter.

	M:	Sounds that way.



	H:	The girl’s momma. And anyway, the girl, this lady had two girls and had a boy. And the two girls, she was working for a lawyer, let me see what the lawyer—I can’t think of what his name was now. But anyway . . . you used to, this lawyer used to live out on the—didn’t live right up in town, lived kinda out and had a big place and everything. And they would wash clothes and put them in the boil pot and all of that. This lawyer lived out from, kinda out from Gainesville. And this girl’s momma was working for them. And somehow or nother the girl had TBs and she died. The lady’s two girls died, but the boy he lived. And they belonged to the Holiness Church. The momma did and whatnot.

	M:	You said the Holiness Church was a little more secretive? Is that what you said before?

	H:	Well, anyway, the girl’s momma belonged to the Holiness Church. And was very religious people. And she had a son and two girls. And back in them days you’d boil a pot out in the yard. And this lawyer was living out town, out in the suburbs. And she worked for them and they would boil the clothes in the boil pot and all of that. And, I don’t know, it must have been, I don’t know, but from what she sit down and told me about it, ‘cause she was a nice lady and everything. And this daughter of hers, the two daughters, they had TBs and they died. And he gave





her [inaudible 50:22], and as I told you, I was visiting some Seventh Day Adventist people and he came up with the son and they introduced me to him. But his wife what he had was dead. And before then I understand that he was living with a big fat woman and him and the big fat woman had had a falling out and he got a room at the house where this girl was living. Would pass his job and he would pick at her. And she was already pregnant for another boy. And, anyway, this boy came up to me one day. I had the little girl with me, and was going down Fifth Avenue. I’m trying to think. I don’t know where I was going now, but had the little girl. That was after me and him had gotten married. And this boy came up to me—that was the little girl’s daddy—and asked me, she had broke all out with this infantigo. And he asked me, he said he was interested in the little girl and said, “You doing anything for the little girl?” I told him, “Yes, the grandmother had took her to the doctor and got medication and tending to her.” And he went on ‘bout his business and that was the little girl’s daddy. But Ms. Ethel, which was the dead, the little girl’s momma told me that this here boy what the daughter was pregnant for, didn’t like to work. And said the one what was mine, was the man what I married later on and everything after she died, he was smart and would work, he would work. But said that the little one what left the daughter pregnant didn’t like to work. And she married this man and he was not the father of this child. But, anyway, let me tell you what happened. This lawyer—I can’t recall his name. What is his name? And he lived out the outskirts of town. And she worked for them.

	M:	Which direction in the outskirts? Which way out of town?





	H:	I think it was back this way.



	M:	Okay, so south? Kind of toward Micanopy or that kind of— H:	I believe it was more, what’s this way?

	M:	That way right there? I think that’s south, south kind of east maybe, toward Hawthorne like that?

	H:	Well, anyway, it was kinda on the outskirts of town where this lawyer lived and had kind of a ranch home or something like that. And used to boil clothes in the boil pot and all of that. And this lady worked for them and she would—I don’t know, seemed like to me that it was kinda wet out there or something another. They would boil them clothes in the boil pot and whatnot. And her two daughters died with TBs. And the boy, he lived, and lived to be a grown man and everything. And he died a few years ago, he dead now. The man what I married, married this girl, but he was not the father of the child. And as I told you, this real father came up to me one day when I had the little girl with me going down Fifth Avenue, and asked me was we doing anything for the little girl. See, he was interested in the little girl, but he didn’t tell me he was the baby’s daddy. But he was the daddy.

	M:	You found it out later?



	H.	I found that out later, that that was the little girl’s daddy. But the momma didn’t marry the girl’s daddy, she married the man what I married later on. And she died with TB and the other sister died with TBs. And as I told you, that I was visiting some Seventh Day Adventist people, and he came up with the son and they all





introduced me to him. And he was single, you know. And, oh he [laughter] made like he wanted another wife and—

	M:	How old was he around that time? H:	He was a grown man.

	M:	Like thirties? Twenties?



	H:	No, he wasn’t in no thirties. He was a young man. And, anyway, somehow or ‘nother, after I met him over at the Seventh Day Adventist people house, he made like he wanted another wife. And every day where I lived at with my aunt and them, he would come by and say something to me. Just come by and said something to me, and pretended like he wanted to get married and I, like a little fool [laugher], got married. And, honey, let me tell you one thing: I married the wrong man. He was a preacher’s son. But I tell you what, he had a nice daddy. The daddy was a nice old man. But he was a preacher’s son and he was not a nice person. He was a mechanic; he knowed how to work on cars. He could take them ole cars and fix ‘em up. And he made pretty good money back in them days working on them old cars and whatnot. And, I don’t know. And he was nice looking man and everything and I thought he wanted another wife. But I didn’t have no business marrying him. I should not have married him. But anyway, on down the line.

	M:	So, he was a mechanic. Where’d he work? Where was the shop?



	H:	Well he worked for Shaun Keeter too. You heard talk of Shaun Keeter? And then later on he had his own shop, him and another fella. And he was a smart man to work. She said the one what had got the lady daughter, the lady told me,





somehow or ‘nother after her daughter died and he had met me and he took me to meet the dead wife’s mother and everything, she told me that the one what was had the daughter pregnant didn’t like to work. And I think he went north. I can see him right now. And I don’t think he ever come back here. And he said to me, said he was interested in the little girl. And said, “You doing anything for the little girl?” And that was the little girl’s daddy, had the girl pregnant. But he didn’t know I knowed it, but that was the daddy. And he said he was interested in the little girl. And he went north years ago and I don’t think he ever come back to Gainesville. I never heard nobody say he was back here.

	M:	He took off and that was it?



	H:	Well, I don’t know. Really to tell the truth about it, I don’t know the full story on how come he went north or nothing. But I know the girl, the dead, the girl what got married to this fella, Ms. Ethel, she was crazy ‘bout my husband. She thought a lots of him. Oooh, she thought a lots of him. And he had took me over to meet ‘em. And when me and him got married—see the daughter had done died, you know—she fixed a big, lemme see how you say it, a big dinner for us. Invited me over. That was the dead girl’s momma. But the little daughter, she still living. And she calls me “mother dear” but I’m not her mother. And somehow or ‘nother Ms. Ethel thought a lots of me and I thought a lots of them. We was nice to one another. And the girl had a brother and one day he was across the street visiting from me and looked around and seed that he was right near me and he said, “This is my sister-in-law.” He called me his sister-in-law. And somehow or ‘nother the dead girl momma and all of ‘em seemed like they likeded me. We got along





real, real good like we was kin and wasn’t no kin. Just see, the daughter had died and he got married to me and everything and, I don’t know, we just made good friends. And the little girl, she living now and she calls me “mother dear” and we got a good relationship. But the girl that, the one that, her momma, she died and TBs, from what I was told. But anyway, as I told you, she thought a lots of him. ‘Cause he married her daughter I guess, and you know back in them days, as I told you, you kinda considered as nothing if you got pregnant and wasn’t married and I guess she appreciated him marrying her daughter. And somehow or nother he carried me to meet ‘em and whatnot, and somehow or nother, I don’t know, they likeded me. Likeded me and was nice to me.

	M:	Do you remember that happening to a lot of girls, being considered like nothing after they got pregnant? Did that happen often?

	H:	Mmhm. But back then, my days when I was young and everything, you was considered as nothing if you got pregnant and had a baby ‘fore you got married.

	M:	Did you have any friends that that happened to?



	H:	Oh, I know a lot of people that that happened to. I know people that that happened to.

	M:	What happened to them?



	H:	Well they, to tell you the truth I don’t know. I don’t know. But some of them sho got pregnant and didn’t have no husband or nothing. But I can tell you this: you was considered as nothing if you got pregnant and had a baby and wasn’t married.

	M:	Do you think it’s changed?





	H:	Oh it’s done changed. These people now get the [laughter]—lemme tell you the funny thing. Some of them get the sperm and don’t even get the man. Don’t even [laughter]. All that, there’s no more of that now, but that was what happened when I was young.

	M:	Did you understand much about how you would get pregnant when you were young, or did they talk about that at all?

	H:	Nah, I didn’t understand a lot of things.



	M:	Make it pretty tough. Easy mistake I guess, I don’t know, but—



	H:	There was a whole lots I didn’t understand. But, anyway, when he met me, his wife had died and everything and he claimed he wanted another wife. And I was living with my aunt and them and whatnot, and he come by every day and would say something to me. And then finally we got married. And I ain’t had no business [inaudible 1:02:05] marrying that man.

	M:	You were eighteen or so, or seventeen, or how old were you back then?



	H:	I was, like, bout nineteen or eighteen, something like that. I was young and I was visting these Seventh Day Adventist people and we was all good friends and everything and I though he was a nice person. I didn’t know. Jumped up and got married. And, see, my mother was up in Georgia, her and my daddy, and I was staying with my aunt and them. Come down here AND stay with my aunt to go to school.

	M:	What did your aunt think about you getting married? Did she say anything? H:	Well, she didn’t say nothing.

	M:	Where’d you get married?





	H:	The courthouse. Judge McDonald married us. Claimed he wanted another wife, but I ain’t had no business marrying him. But he had a nice daddy. The daddy was a little preacher. And my chilrens and whatnot, when I had chilren, he would come and visit me. And he had a cousin that lived here who raise him and his mother died when he was young. And I think this cousin is one of the ones who helped raise him. And somehow or ‘nother I met her and she seemed to be a nice person and all. And then the dead girl’s momma, she was nice. She seemed to like me and we got along real nice and everything. But I ain’t had no business marrying that man. I ain’t know what I was doing. I didn’t have no business marrying him.

	M:	Did you ever think about a divorce, or was that something you also couldn’t do back then?

	H:	Oh I got a divorce from him. M:	Oh yeah?

	H:	I sure did. I sure did. M:	When was that?

	H:	Down the line there, let’s see. Let me tell you what: he raised so much of sand when I was up there trying to get my divorce and everything from him. And the, not the little county judge, but the judge that was higher up than this county, city judge or whatever he was, told me, “You buy yourself a gun and if you have to shoot, you shoot.” Say “We don’t generally tell people this, but I’m telling you this.” He raised so much of sand. But I don’t know why he was raisin so much of sand. I guess it was cause I was—I tell you what, I knowed how to keep food on





the table, I can tell you that. I always had something left to work and keep food on the table and I think—I know that’s what it was. It wasn’t that he was so much in love with me, it’s just that I knowed how to keep food on the table.

	M:	That goes a long way I guess.



	H:	Mmhm. But I had to get a divorce from him. And he raised all kinda sand, but it wasn’t that he was in love with me, so is all that. He didn’t want to get rid of me ‘cause I always knowed how to keep some food on the table.

	M:	When you started the domestic work, was that after you got married? Or you started working in people’s houses and stuff—that’s when you got married or—

	H:	Well I was working some in people houses before I got married.



	M:	Just for the work? Just for the extra money, I guess. Were you still going to school then? Or what was—

	H:	Well, I had to work because, see, my aunt, my mother was supposed to send money to her to help her with me, but she didn’t keep her promise like she was supposed to and I had to work. And so I’ve worked in, you know, different homes and whatnot. And worked for good people. The White people was good to me.

	M:	Do you remember any of those families or those homes? H:	Yeah.

	M:	Do you remember any names?



H:  One of the, the daughter and her husband, one of them lives up in Georgia. But the mother and the father both is dead. And I hears from ‘em. We hear from one another. Uh-huh

M:   You keep in touch? Even after all that time?





	H:	Uh-huh. Sho do. And they have come and, when the mother and father was living, the mother and father is living one of them families, the mother and father is living, was died. But when they was living, the husband came down here and went to school at the university and married a Florida woman and stayed here and got a job at the university, taught school at the university. And somehow or ‘nother, this Dr. Scudder was the one who taught religion at the university and his office was in my territory. And he wouldn’t be in the office all the time and that’s where I would hide out when I got ready to kinda hide out and get away from everybody. I would go in that particular office and kinda hide out. And somehow or ‘nother he had a secretary . . . one of the other doctors, the one had this secretary. And, anyway, she was working for the doctors—it was more than one of them in that office. And somehow or ‘nother me and her made good friends with one another. She was from another county and she had married this Florida man. And she told me one day, she said, “Eula Mae, Eula Mae,”—I was working there and that was before I was working in this particular lady’s home—she said, “I want you to do me a favor.” She said, “I want you to work for a friend of mine.” ‘Cause I was working a little bit part time, you know. I wasn’t working full time.

And I told her, I said, “I don’t know. I have to let them know. I’ll think about it.” And somehow or ‘nother I decided to work for the lady. And I called the lady and I let her know that the little job that I had here and yonder, I had to get rid of them first. And this lady and I, we talked to one another and she told me, said “I’m gone wait for you.” And sho’nuff, when I got everything straightened out and all, I called her and she come and got me and she said, “I got a big ole house.” And, I





don’t know, seemed like for some reason they likeded me and was very nice to me. And the girl and her husband lives in—oh what the name of that place where she live? And I used to go through there going to visit my mother and father. And I would stop by to see her and her husband. And we keeps in touch with one another, Christmastime and times like that. The boy—the son—I got a picture of him in there where me and him, he has . . . I’m gone show it to you. I used to tear his, spank his little fanny sometimes. And somehow or nother, I don’t know, that family was good to me. Really good to me. Sho was.

	M:	How much did you get paid for that kind of work? Do you remember?



	H:	It wasn’t paying nothing much back in them days, working for almost for nothing. Didn’t’ get too much money. But I made it out of it and everything. I knowed how to try to make ends meet. And we never—always had plenty on the table for the children to eat and everything. I told you ‘bout I got a divorce from him. And Judge McDonald was the one that I told you ‘bout that have to, was I goed to get the money for chilren. And he, I don’t know, the other judge, the higher upper judge and Judge McDonald, told me, said, “You buy yourself a gun and if you have to shoot, you shoot.” Sho did. Say “We don’t normally tell people this, but I’m telling you this.” Oh he raised a lot of sand. But what it was, I knowd how to work and keep some food on the table. And he drank and gambled and did all kinda things, and I didn’t know it ‘till I was married to him. I did not know it. But somehow or ‘nother, this particular family helped me get out of it. I got out of it.

He’d come in at night half drunk and jump on me and all of that and—oh I don’t know it, this wasn’t a good marriage. I just thought that, I don’t know [laughter]. I





don’t know. I was young at that time and thought I knew what I was doing. But it didn’t work out and I’m so glad I got out of it.

	M:	Why didn’t you leave him sooner? Were you afraid to or did you just, you thought you could work it out?

	H:	Didn’t have that kind of sense. M:	Just weren’t sure until later?

	H:	Didn’t have that kind of sense. But, anyway, I got out of it. And I tell you what, lemme tell you what: when we done, he married again. And had some more children. And them chilrens is very friendly with me and everything. And they come this way, they come to see me. And the chilren, my chilren and them, they gets together and they have their little parties and different little things. They invite the chilren. And whenever they come this way they come to see me. And they seem to like me. And I like them. It’s all boys. My daughter is the only girl. And chilrens is close, close friends. Some of them live [inaudible 1:12:33] and when they have little parties and different little things, they invite my chilren.

	M:	They get along?



	H:	They get along real good. And I like ‘em. I like ‘em very much. And the wife, she had a son before she married him. And he’s a little preacher. He lives in New York now. And we all friendly with one another, very friendly. And I’m the kind of person, I ain’t got nothing in my heart against nobody. I love people. I try to make friends when I go along. I don’t go along trying to make enemies and fussing and quarreling and fighting and going on. I’m on the Lord’s side and I try to live right and do right.





	M:	Where did you meet a lot of the friends in your life? At church or did you just meet them wherever you were working and wherever you were goin?

	H:	Well when I was goin to school I knowed a lot of em. And Duncan Brothers Funeral Home. The Duncans what died, the oldest one, he was my classmate when I was in the high school.

	M:	So you knew a lot of these folks around here, yeah?



	H:	Some of my classmates is still living and we call one another every once in a while and talk to one another.

	M:	What else do you remember about Lincoln?



	H:	Oh, I remember it well. After I had got married and everything professor Jones,



A. Quinn Jones, he picked me up and gave me a ride. And we was talkin and I told him that I would like to come—‘cause I hadn’t finished school. And he told me I could come back and finish, but somehow or ‘nother I never did go back.

M:   You got caught up in other things?



H:   Uh-huh. And getting’ a divorce and all of that and whatnot.



	M:	What do you remember about A. Quinn Jones? What kind of man was he? H:	He was a nice person, far as I know. Very nice.

M:   Do you remember him in the classroom or in the hallway—



	H:	Oh, yeah. He taught a class. I’m trying to think—what was that he taught me? He was a very nice man. He had one wife before this wife and she had died. And he had some chilren. And he had another wife, but I don’t think, she wasn’t the mother of them chilren. And far as I know he was a nice man. And he had told





me I could come back to school and finish if I wanted to. And, I don’t know, he was nice. I ain’t got nothing to say wrong about him.

	M:	I’m not asking for things wrong about him, just what you remember. H:	I remember good things.

	M:	You knew him yourself.



	H:	Mmhm. He taught a class. Taught one our classes and I’m trying to think, I done forgot what it was that he taught. I can’t think right off. But, anyway, he was a nice person far as I know. And he got grown chilren. He got a son, I think one of the sons is still here or up north somewhere.

		M:	Oh, he’s got a son who was a principle up at Mebane then, up in Alachua. H:		A. Quinn Jones?

	M:	Yeah, his son, Oliver.



	H:	Yeah! That’s right. You right. And he was a nice teacher and everything. Mmhm.



And after I had got married and everything he had told me, said I could come back to school and finish. He picked me up one day, I was walking and he gave me a ride and he was a nice man. All them teachers was. I got along with ‘em real good.

	M:	Who was your favorite teacher at Lincoln? Do you remember? H:	All of ‘em.

	M:	All of them?



	H:	Mmhm. They was nice to me, very nice.



	M:	So, Gainesville was segregated when you were growing up here and when you lived here—





	H:	And was a little ole town. It done growed over the years. It really has growed. It wasn’t nearly ‘bout this big. And Lincoln was just a little ole school.

	M:	Were the streets in Porters mostly dirt back then? H:	It was dirt.

	M:	Dirt all around? Do you remember when they paved them?



	H:	Yeah, I remember when they was paving the streets. ‘Cause my brother lived in Warner Robbins, Georgia and he had just got out the service and was waiting on his job to open up at the air base there. And he took a little job working with the road they was putting down this—what’s the name of the stuff out there on the top?

	M:	Oh, the asphalt?



	H:	Uh-huh. And, lemme tell you what: he married a girl that lived not too far from the air base and everything. He went to the service and all. And he took this job working on the road when they was putting down that asphalt or whatever. And the dirt, from what I can understand—this was up in Georgia, I was down here. I wasn’t up there, my mother and them told me about it and everything. And they was putting down that asphalt and stuff, and some of the dirt would be piled up high as this house some places, and some places would be down on the ground. And the dirt caved in on my brother, the one next to me, and killed him. And when they dug him out he was dead. And he’s buried in that cemetery up there. And then I got a younger brother, he died too. He’s dead too. I’m the oldest. I didn’t have no sisters. Well, my mother said something or ‘nother, told me that she had a miscarriage. But I ain’t had no miscarriage. I just had three chilren.





	M:	That was it?



	H:	Mmhm. And I always wanted another girl, ‘cause my daughter was—I was raised up with two boys. And it’s kinda lonesome, you know, with two boys. And I wanted my daughter, I wanted at least to have two girls. But I never did get the other girl. I just had one girl, like my mother. And she lives here. You met her?

	M:	I don’t think so.



	H:	Oh, she got a good husband and everything and she’s a school teacher. And she’s doing some different kind of work and the husband is chairman of the deacon board in they church and everything, and she’s doing real good. All of my chilrens got college degrees. Some of em got more than one. I don’t know how we did it but they did it. We borrowed money and I can remember when this one right here. [inaudible 1:20:13] ‘Cause I signed for the money and stuff. And he told his self was gonna get smart; he wasn’t gone pay it back. And the people wrote me a letter, ‘cause see I signed for him too, you know. And I called up my other son, the one what lives in New York and told him, “You better talk to your brother because he, these people wrote me a letter ‘bout that money and I’m not gone pay that money back ‘cause he teaching school and I’m doing maid work.

And I’m not gonna pay that money back. He gone pay it back. And I don’t know what happened. My son, the other son must have talked to him or whatever happened, they never wrote me no more. Never bothered me no more. He paid that money back. But he thought hisself was gonna get smart, wasn’t gone pay it back. And see, I signed it.

	M:	Oh, yeah.





	H:	And after he was teaching school—and he been all over in other countries working and whatnot. Did you know it?

	M:	He’s talked a little about that, yeah.



	H:	He been over in different countries working, teaching, and whatnot. And I’m doing maid work now and I’m gone pay the money back and he wasn’t gone pay it back. But I made sure he paid it back. He paid it back.

	M:	So, you remember Gainesville when it was segregated, right?



	H:	I sure do. And I remember when you couldn’t—Black people didn’t go to the university. I remember when it was Stephan Mickle, which is a judge, he was one of the ones that was, how would you say it?

	M:	Well, they’ve been calling it “the firsts.” He was one of the first to graduate from [UF with a Bachelor’s degree].

	H:	And them was the first ones that went to the university.



	M:	Yeah, they got all the different colleges. He was one of the first to go through the law school.

	H:	And there was some more of ‘em. Let me see, what is the other boy’s name? I can’t recall the rest them names. But, anyway, I was out there workin at the Reitz Union and the people, they was marching and whatnot. And I went to work every day and nobody bothered me. I went to work every day.

	M:	While all the demonstrations were going on? What do you remember thinking about that time?

	H:	Nothing.



	M:	Nothing? You weren’t too concerned about it?





	H:	No, ‘cause nobody bothered me. And they didn’t bother none of us. I didn’t hear talk of nobody being bothered.

	M:	Did you think it was a good thing? Were you excited about the civil rights protests?

	H:	I thought that it was the right thing.



	M:	What was it like to go downtown before integration? Did you ever go to the downtown or any of those shops?

	H:	Well, not too many of ‘em.



	M:	Not too often? You stuck pretty much in the Black neighborhoods and that kind of thing?

	H:	Mmhm.



	M:	Where’d you do your shopping?



H:  I shopped downtown. They had, I tell you what, like they got Penney’s and all them different stores. They didn’t have them here. Little ole stores, you know, little hole-in-the-wall. Them stores wasn’t here.

M:  Was it difficult to go downtown when you had to go to go shopping? H:  Unh-uh

M:   No? You’d just go?



	H:	I remember the five-and-ten-cent store. I would go there. And they didn’t have that many stores here, just was a few. And I went to any of them I wanted to go to and nobody bothered me.

	M:	So when you were growing up you didn’t really have any—





H:  No, see, I was a teenager when I come down here. I wasn’t no little child. When I come down her to stay with my aunt I was a teenager. I come down here to go to old Lincoln, and that’s where I went.

M:  Well, did you interact with Whites very much when you were a teenager? I mean, when you were cleaning houses you were—

	H:	I worked for White people. And White people was good to me. And a lot of this junk you see we got ‘round here, some of them people what I worked for give it to me.

	M:	Oh yeah?



	H:	Yeah. I got a—I ain’t bought all this junk what I got here. And when I got ready to get this house, two families, one was one of the doctors at the university, Dr.— what’s that man’s name? I can’t think of his name right off. But he got sick and went to the hospital and stayed a long time, and he died. And when he died he had my name—he had a, he was single, he’d done the—his wife had died and he didn’t have no family or nothing, and one of the ladies that I worked for, she would go over and fix sandwiches for him. They was family friends, and all of them was in the university together, in the department together. And somehow or ‘nother, this lady would always be telling me about him, ‘cause I was workin in homes some then. And somehow or ‘nother I decided to go and see the lady what was working for him. She got sick and couldn’t go back to work. And I went and talked with her, I got the address from them and went to see her. And she told me he would be nice to work for, and she encouraged me to work for him. ‘Cause she was sick and wasn’t able to go back to work. And I went to work for





him. And when he died, in his department—I told you ‘bout his wife was dead, he didn’t have no wife—and one of the White ladies, she come in and was helping with his bath and all of that kind of stuff and I would help with his cooking and whatnot. And sometime when he’d be getting his bath and whatnot I would help her with him to get his bath and all of that. And did you know that man had me in his will and when he got sick and was in the hospital for a long, long time, they say he was kinda hard headed, he wouldn’t take out that insurance. And then they got through paying that hospital bill and money what was left, was divided up with the people in his department and my name was down to the bottom and I got some money. The police were knocking on my door one day and told me, say this man had died and was in the hospital and he left me some money and for me to get in touch with this particular man. And they offered to take me to the lawyer. And I told them, I said, “I know who the lawyer is. I think I can go.” And the policeman teased me about it and told me, said, “No, if we take you the neighbors will think we arresting you.” And sho’nuff, now I got in touch with the lawyer. I knowed how to get in touch with him, and he left me a little bit of money. My name was down to the very bottom. I got the smallest amount. The White lady what come in and would see ‘bout him and everything, her name was next to mine. And all them people in his department, them doctors, they all got some money. Yeah, the Lord’s been good to me. And when I got this house, I’m gone tell you what: my daughter is the one who told me about this house. She knew the people who lived here. And my daughter’s a school teacher. She went to school and got—all my chilren got degrees, all of ‘em. And she, one day she told





me, she said, “Momma, this lady is wanting to sell her house. These people want to sell they house, and move out in the country and buy some land.” And so she come and got me and showed me the house. And while I was driving—we was driving along and she brought me here, I didn’t see nothing but White people.

And I said, “Ooh, my goodness, they ain’t gone let me stay over here.” I told myself, you know. I didn’t say nothing to my daughter. My daughter brought me, showed me the house and everything. And the people was nice. And somehow or ‘nother, I decided I would get the house. And did you know, I told you ‘bout two people gave me some money. That this here doctor left me some when he died, and then another family gave me some, and so I had a little money saved up.

And did you know I had enough of money to pay cash for this house and never made no. . . .

	M:	Wow.



	H:	Uh-huh. Sure did. M:	That’s not bad at all.

	H:	And my daughter the one encouraged me and told me, said, “Momma, you take that money and go and get that house and pay for that house.” ‘Cause she know I had that money that was given to me. This man had left me some and then another family gave me some. And so I paid cash for the house. Never made no loans. Didn’t have no loans. Now you know that was nothing but the good Lord.

	M:	When was that? When did you move in here?



	H:	I think I’ve been in this house for about seventeen, eighteen, nineteen years, something like that.





	M:	Where were you living before that?



	H:	Over in the bad south side of town. Fifth Avenue, up in that area. Where they was selling dope under the street lights at night and bad people. [laughter]

	M:	Oh you were living there then?



	H:	Yeah, ‘cause I had done got a divorce from my husband. M:	Where were you living around Fifth Avenue?

	H:	I had a house.



	M:	What street were you on?



	H:	I lived on Fifth Avenue for a while, and I lived on Seventh Terrace for a while. I lived two different places. And the people were, tell you the truth about it, them peoples up there, I don’t know what to say about them. They wasn’t nice to one another. But I tell you what: I had to work cause I had got a divorce from my husband and everything. And to tell you the truth about it, they—I don’t know, somehow or ‘nother, I didn’t have time to sit and talk too much with ‘em and be involved in things with’ em and whatnot . And the people treated me good up there, but they wasn’t good to one another, I can tell you that.

	M:	A lot of fighting?



	H:	They was—I don’t know how to say it. They just wasn’t good to one another… H:	[Side conversation] Somebody knocking on the door. Is he gone?

	M:	Oh, he’s got it.



	H:	But somehow or ‘nother, the people up in there, when I left my chilren with one of the ladies who kept my chilren, her and her husband, they were very nice to me. And then when I moved on Fifth Avenue, the lady next door, she was paralyzed





and whatnot and her daughter would come down and get her bathed up and ready and everything and set her on the porch and she would watch my chilrens for me. And so I just been blessed. The good Lord been good to me. Yes he has. And somehow or ‘nother, I didn’t get in none of that mess what be going on ‘round there. I never drank, I didn’t kill anybody. I tried to learn how to drink and tried it, but I didn’t like it.

	M:	When I ask some people about Fifth Avenue, they remember the restaurants and things that were there before the dope was going on.

	H:	That’s what I’m telling you bout now. Them restaurants, them kinda people, they the ones that was selling that whiskey and stuff. And let me tell you what: my classmates, they would see it to ‘em. And some of my classmates was drunkards.

	M:	Did the police know about that? H:	No.

	M:	They didn’t know?



	H:	No, they didn’t. If they knowed, they didn’t do nothing ‘bout them. They might’ve knowed it. I don’t know. I was young back there. I don’t know. They might’ve knowed about it. But I know one thing, my classmates got ahold of plenty to drink. Them what drank, drank. Ya hear?

	M:	Well, what’d you do then, for fun, if you didn’t like drinking?



	H:	I would go to dances at the school dances and whatnot and the different things what the school would have and whatnot.

	M:	Did the church do anything? Did they have programs?





	H:	And I would go to church. I was in the church. I ushered in the church and whatnot.

M:   Do you remember the football games?



H:  Oh, yeah. I went to some of them. And the old union, let me tell you what, the old union and the cafeteria was right back here and we would come out the side door and could go and see the park from back there.

M:  So you’re talkin about the old Reitz Union, the student union? H:  Yeah. Uh-huh.

M:   So you could watch the games just from right there?



	H:	Yeah, we have stood out there and could look over there and see ‘em playing and everything.

M:   That works out pretty nicely.



	H:	Mmhm. And I don’t know, I got along real good with people and everything. I never had no fusses and fights and arguments and all that kinda stuff. I never got into nothing like that. And, I don’t know, when I got married and whatnot [inaudible 1:36:11]. And I didn’t know nothing bout him. I ain’t had business thinking. I ain’t had no business marrying him, because I didn’t know nothin about him. But his daddy was a nice little old man, nice little preacher.

	M:	What was his daddy’s name?



	H:	And the aunt, one of his cousins, helped raise him cause his momma died with two brothers of him. His momma died when they was little chilrens. And this cousin helped raise him.

	M:	What was the father’s name?





	H:	Reverend Harris.



	M:	Do you know his first name?



	H:	What that man’s first name? I can’t think right off. M:	Do you know where he preached?

	H:	He lived in Live Oak. He didn’t live here. But he had a cousin that lived here and she had a nice home here and everything and she the one who helped raise him. And they say when the mother died, they was little chilrens around the bed when she was sick and she died. And this cousin played a big part in helpin to get him raised up and whatnot.

	M:	I see.



	H:	He was married fore he was married to me. I told you ‘bout that. M:	Oh, yeah. You mentioned that.

	H:	And he could fix them old cars. He was a good mechanic. Real good. But he, I don’t know, he was not a good person.

	M:	Did he have White clients or was it mostly Black clients, or who came in to get their cars fixed?

	H:	Had White ones and Black ones. M:	Everybody?

	H:	Mmhm. He was a good mechanic. And let me tell you what I heard about him later on. I didn’t know all of that then. Say just like a part for the car, get one good part and then put one bad part in the car—him and another fella was in business together there—and put one good part and then one bad part in the car. Now you





know that wasn’t gone work. Now you know that was wrong. I’m telling you, I was glad to get out of that [laughter]. I was glad to get out of it.

	M:	I can imagine.



	H:	I sho was. I got outta that.



	M:	Well you had a steady job at the union then. H:	Yeah, yeah.

	M:	So, do you remember around when you started there? What year maybe? H:	I got it wrote down. I’ll find it and we’ll tell you some time.

	M:	Okay. But it was before integration at UF, is that right? Because you remember being there when they had the –

	H:	Oh, yeah. Yeah.



	M:	So probably the late [19]50s the [19]60s, somewhere in there? H:	Mathis? Mathis?

	MH:	I’m not being interviewed. You’re being interviewed. M:	It’s okay. We’ll check it later.

	H:	I can’t think right off. But I’ll tell you.



	M:	Who was your first boss there? Who was the first director when you were workin there?

	H:	Billy Matthews. He was elected to Congress. And went to Washington. And Mr.



Rion was the assistant and then he got to be the director.



	M:	Do you remember working with them? I mean, do you remember them as people?

	H:	Oh, yeah. I knew ‘em real well.





	M:	What were they like?



		H:	They were nice. Very nice. And I can remember when Mr. Rion called me in one day and I was at the	We had the flowers around the buildings. I took care of

them a lot. You know, plants in the pots and whatnot. I took care of them a lot. And one day Mr. Rion called me into the office and told me, “Eula Mae, we gone have to pay social security now.” We wasn’t paying no benefits at all when I first went there. He wasn’t payin it his self.

	M:	Just the money and that was it, huh? No insurance? No nothing? H:	And the money wasn’t that much.

	M:	How much were you getting’ paid in the beginning, do you remember? H:	I don’t know. I done forgot. But it wasn’t that much. But it was a job.

	M:	Who was your doctor back then? Who did you go to?



		H:	Didn’t hardly have no good doctors here. When I had an operation I went to Jacksonville. What happened—let’s see, I believe this man was at the	I’m

	trying to think, what the name of	? I went to the doctor and the doctor told me



I was gone have to have an operation and I went to, seem like to me it was in the



	. . . the name of that building downtown. I can’t think right now. I’ll think and tell you one day. But, anyway, I went to the doctor in Jacksonville and went to Brewstser Hospital	and I got some help. I had chilrens and I got help.

	M:	You didn’t have a doctor around here, though? Did you ever—



	H:	Wasn’t that many doctors around here. When I went to the dentist, I went to Ocala to the dentist, and I went to Jacksonville to the hospital, Brewster Hospital.

	M:	Did you have a car back then?





	H:	Gainesville wasn’t no, I’m telling ya now, it wasn’t too much to this place. M:	Small town, huh?

	H:	But it sho is a big ole town now. M:	Yeah.

	H:	Wasn’t too much to it. And it sho wasn’t paying nothing for the work. I think I was getting’ ‘bout thirty five cent or something [laughter] when I first [inaudible 1:42:33] work. I think I was getting about thirty five cent an hour, something like that. But I made it. I had food on the table and we always had plenty to eat. And, I don’t know, I had a friend that worked at the, what the name of that place where the vegetable crop is? Would bring me vegetables and give me a lot vegetables and I would give the neighbors some of them. And one lady, she got smart and told him she wanted him to bring the vegetables to her and not me, give ‘em to her. And he told me,said he told her, “You see Eula Mae and get you some vegetables.” He would bring me a lot of vegetables. But I think what they was doing, they would be getting ready to plant another crop and would pull this stuff up and throw it away and he bring me a lot of it. He was nice ‘bout bringing me a lot of it. And I would give all the neighbors some of it right ‘round me. And that was at—Mathis, what’s the name of that place? Mathis? Mathis?

	MH:	Momma, you doing the interview, not me. H:	Mathis.

	MH:	Momma, I’m not answering anything.



	H:	Well, what was the name of the place out there where them vegetables was? M:	Is this on campus or is this—





	H:	No, this is the farm that’s connected up with the campus. MH:	You talking about IFAS?

	H:	Yeah.



	M:	Okay.



	H:	I know the man that worked out there and he used to bring me a lot of vegetables from out there and I would give all my neighbors some of ‘em.

	M:	Do you remember his name?



	H:	Yeah. His name was Walter Leon Alexander. He dead now. And this particular lady, she told him she wanted him to bring the vegetables to her not me give ‘em to her.

	M:	Why didn’t she want you to do it? H:	And he told me about it.

	M:	Why didn’t she want you to bring them?



	H:	I don’t know. Them people wasn’t—I’m telling you now, the people up there, Black people wasn’t nice to one another. They wasn’t so good to one another. I tell you just like it is. But somehow or ‘nother I got along with ‘em up there and didn’t have no fusses and fights and arguments with ‘em. And went to work and come on back home. And lady what tended to my chilren, Ms. Fanny Thomas, was very nice to my chilren. And then when I moved from over there on that side of that street, the Fifth Avenue, the lady next door, she kept them. And she was paralyzed and she would sit on the porch all the time. Well, I wasn’t working eight hours at that time. I was workin, like—

	MH:	Voodoo. That’s what the lady who scared me.





	M:	Ah. That’s okay. H:	What’d he say?

	M:	Sorry, what was the story?



	H:	What did he say? What did he tell you? M:	Nothing much.

	H:	I ain’t gone tell you nothing else if you don’t tell me. What did he say? M:	He said Voodoo.

	H:	Voodoo?



	M:	I think so.



	H:	I thought that’s what he said. But now, I don’t think they were doing nothing like that. I don’t believe so.

	MH:	[inaudible 1:46:11] roots.



	H:	I don’t think they was doin nothing like that round there, Mathis.



	MH:	There was no other reason unless the lady wanted to go with the man. There was no other reason for her to tell that she want him to bring ‘em to her. Think about it. What could the reason be? She was scared of you.

	H:	[laughter] Well that man used to bring me a lot of vegetables and I gave all the neighbors some of ‘em. But I think what was happening, they would be pulling up that stuff getting ready to plant the new crop and whatnot, and was gonna throw it away. And he was working there and bring it and give me some of it and I’d give the different neighbors some of it. I was good to the neighbors with that stuff. I sho was.

	M:	It sounds like it.





	H:	And I kept plenty of food on the table. Sho did.



	M:	Did you keep a garden or anything, or did you just buy the food?



	H:	Oh, yeah. I had a little garden, too. I sho did. And let me tell you what: there was a man had a mule and a wagon, and that’s when I was up on Fifth Avenue, and he would come and plow up my little garden in the back and I would plant it.

	M:	Oh, really? Okay.



	H:	Oh, yeah. I always had food to eat, now. We never was hungry. M:	What’d you grow back there in that little garden?

	H:	Peas, beans, corn, greens. M:	Wow. All the good stuff.

	H:	Uh-huh.



	M:	Did you can any of it?



	H:	I sure did. I mean I canned some stuff. Froze it and canned it. I sure did. Yes I did. One of the men that was working with me, he was a older man, and he lived up to Micanopy and his wife was the kinda person that canned and cooked and whatnot. And somehow or ‘nother I met her, and she would tell me over the telephone how to do this and how to do the other. I froze some and canned some. And we always had something to eat, now. And when I was home with my momma and daddy, somehow or ‘nother they always had plenty to eat. But he farmed. He had them big ole, I told you bout them old roads going [laughter].

And when this one would have peas, they would give the neighbors some. And then when the peas be gone and something else come, the other neighbor would give them some. I don’t remember them ever selling none of that stuff. I don’t





remember my daddy and momma selling no vegetables. They give vegetables to one another.

M:   Well you said you grew some cotton too. Did they make anything with that?



H:   Well now that cotton they had a gin. A cotton gin. And they would take the cotton to the gin and have it, what did it do? Separate the cotton from the seeds. I done forgot just how that went now, but they had a cotton gin.

M:   Kind of, I don’t remember too well, but it’s got little teeth on it that kind of. . . . H:  Mmhm.

M:   What did they use the cotton for, though, once they had it?



	H:	I done forgot. I don’t think I ever knowed. ‘Cause I was real young then. M:	Did your parents make your clothes and stuff?

	H:	Now my mother couldn’t sew, but she had friends that could sew. And they made clothes for me.

	M:	So you’d get them from the friends?



	H:	And then she would always buy some things already made.



	M:	Do you remember where you would go when you were younger to get that stuff? H:	Yeah, I remember the stores and whatnot.

	M:	Where were they at?



	H:	Downtown. Just like us over here. And you know it’s a downtown here. Yeah. It was pretty nice back then. And I told you bout that little ole girl said to me one day, “Y’all think you’re rich.” [laughter] My daddy was a smart man to work, now. He took care of us. My mother didn’t have to work. He took care of us. I had a good daddy. A smart daddy. Sho did.





	M:	Sounds like it. Did you see him much after you moved down here?



	H:	Mmhm. I would go and visit them, yeah. And I [inaudible 1:50:45] my mother to come down and stay a little while with me one time and visit with me. And she worked a little bit while she was here. Oh, yeah. ‘Cause back in—let me tell you what: I can’t tell you just how it goes, but when banks went busted, you heard about that. My daddy lost a bunch of money in a bank in Savannah, Georgia.

And guess what, lemme tell you this: the money what he had in the bank was in a Black bank. And I understand that it had of been in the White bank he probably wouldn’t have lost it like he did. This was in Augusta, Georgia. He lost a bunch of money in the bank. The bank went broke.

	M:	How did he recover from that, do you remember? He just had to start saving again?

	H:	Everything was pretty tough, but my daddy had a farm. And we had something to eat.

	M:	Goes a long way.



	H:	Uh-huh. We never was hungry, now. My daddy was a smart man. He was a working man. He wasn’t no man to sit down and not work and whatnot. He was smart. And my mother, she never worked too much. She always was at home. But I can remember when she come down here and visit with me and I was working and she got a little job and worked some.

	M:	Where’d she work? H:	In the people house.

	M:	Okay, just working around?





	H:	Uh-huh. In people house. And some of the White people what I worked for keep in touch with me right now.

	M:	Oh yeah?



	H:	Mmhm. And some of them chilrens and whatnot, I hear from ‘em. They call me up and one girl and her husband—what the name of that place in Georgia? I would go through that particular place to visit my mother and father. And that boy, he did his—what do you call it when you go and teach for a while before you graduate? What you call that?

	M:	You mean, like, and assistantship or you thinkin of— H:	School.

	M:	The school? MH:	Internship. H:	Internship.

	M:	Internship. Okay, yeah.



	H:	He did it in—what’s the name of that part of Georgia? What’s the name of that part of Georgia where Needra Ann and her husband live?

	MH:	Thomasville, somewhere around there. H:	Huh?

	MH:	Thomasville, maybe. H:	No, it ain’t Thomasville.

	MH:	I don’t know. [inaudible 1:53:51]



	H:	But anyway, he did his internship there and him and her got married, and they lived to that particular place right now. And when I used to go through there going





to visit my mother and father, I used to go visit them. And when they mother and father was living here, and they would come here and visit, he was a—what you call that, Mathis, when you’re over flowers and vegetables and stuff?

	M:	When you do what with them? H:	Mathis?

	MH:	Momma, you talking to the man, not me.



	H:	I’m talking bout Needra Ann husband. He was a master gardener. And used bring me, him and her, when the mother and daddy was still livin and they come to Gainesville, they would bring me plants from—oh, what’s the name of that part of Georgia? I can’t recall the name of it, but it was on the way when I was goin to visit my mother and father. And they would bring me different kind of plants. And one, you see that bush over there that had them beautiful flowers on it in the yard back there, kinda not in the corner, but right there on the end? That’s one of the flowers that they brought me—trees, plants that they brought me.

	M:	Still growing.



	H:	Yea, it’s a big ole thing and has beautiful flowers on it. He was a master gardener. And the mother and father was living then, see, and they would come to Gainesville. And when they come to Gainesville they would bring me some of they plants. See, I tended to that girl when she was a little girl, and the boy, I’ll show you a picture of me and him together in there now. And, I don’t know, those people thought a lots of me and I thought a lots of them.

	M:	It sounds that way.





	H:	Some of them people what I worked for was good to me. They sho was. I worked for some good White people. You can talk about ‘em and say what you want to say, but they didn’t treat me bad. They treated me good. White people was good to me. And a lot of junk and stuff what I got ‘round here right now they give it to me. And a lot of clothes what I got, they gave ‘em to me.

	M:	Did you know people who had worse experiences working for White families?



	H:	Well, I knowed some people that wasn’t working for the best of families. But somehow or ‘nother, the good Lord blessed me. I worked for some good White people. I sure did. I aingt got nothing to say bad about none of them. They were good to me. And helped me with my chilren. And that boy right there, the lady husband, taught him how to do a lot of things. And when that boy was younger, he showed they boy how to do things. I been blessed, I mean, the good Lord’s been good to me. Yes, sir. The good Lord’s been good to me.

	M:	Sounds that way. Can we talk a little more about when you worked at the Reitz Union?

	H:	Uh-huh.



	M:	You started there in the smaller building, then, before you moved to the new one, right?

	H:	Mmhm.



	M:	What do you remember about that building? H:	The other building?

	M:	Yeah. The old one.





	H:	Well, one fella worked there. We called him Spoke Laughton. And Billy Matthews was the director there. And this man, when he got through cleaning, there was a pool room there and whatnot. And different offices and whatnot, different parts of it where the man cleaned up. When he got through cleaning up and whatnot, on the front out there, he would come out there and shine shoes and make some extra money. And I’m trying to think who was that come there later on after Mr. Billy Matthews was elected to Congress. They stopped him from shining shoes making a little extra money when he got caught up with his work. And he left there and went to the veteran’s hospital. When he got caught up with his work, he would come out on the front and shine shoes and make a little extra money. We called him Spoke Laughton. But when—I’m trying to think who come there . . . I can’t think who come there right after Mr. Billy Matthews left right now. But, anyway, Spoke left and went to the veteran’s hospital and that’s where he retired from, ‘cause they wouldn’t let him shine shoes out there no more, and he left.

	M:	Why’d they stop him?



	H:	And the veteran’s hospital hadn’t been there long, long time. And that’s where he retired from.

	M:	Why’d they stop him from shining shoes?



	H:	I told you then this new director come in there. M:	Oh, he just didn’t like it?





	H:	Wasn’t gone let him shine shoes and make no extra money. But Mr. Billy Matthews, when he was there, he’d come to the front and shine shoes and make a little extra money.

	M:	Did you meet a lot of students—



	H:	Oh, yes. I sho did. Foreigners from other countries. And some of ‘em, I keep in touch with some of ‘em now. Every once in a while I hear from some of them now.

	M:	What other countries? Do you remember?



	H:	Let me see if I can remember . . . I guess I’ll have to wait ‘till I can have time to sit down and think about it.

	M:	That’s okay.



	H:	But them people, some of them chilren from them different countries and whatnot, they was nice to me. They wasn’t bad. They was nice. Sho was. Very nice.

	M:	And you liked workin at the union?



	H:	Oh, did I?! I enjoyed working there. Told you I made supervisor and didn’t have to work unless somebody was sick or somebody was out. And I could go, and I told you bout I’d go in Dr. Scudder’s office ‘cause they would be gone to teach class and I would go in there and sit down and read and rest and do nothing, then go back out and check and see how everything’s going. Oh, yeah. I was a little supervisor and I didn’t have to work. I’d sit down and—oh, I don’t know, I enjoyed workin to the Reitz Union. I ain’t got nothing bad to say about it.





	M:	What was campus like back when you first started? The university’s gotten a lot bigger, too.

	H:	Well it was nice. I got long out there real good. I remember when the Black people started going to the university and they was marching and whatnot. I went to work every day. Nobody bothered me. Nobody bothered me.

M:  Did they talk much about those marches or anything in the office or wherever? H:   No, they didn’t seem to talk, not to me. They didn’t’ talk about it to me at work. M:   Did any of the students ever come to talk to you about it?

	H:	Well, I don’t know. The students was nice to me. A lot of them was from over in other countries and whatnot, and they treated me nice. I got along with the students real good. I don’t know none that treated me bad. I got long with them real good.

	M:	What was the most challenging part of the job? H:	Hm?

	M:	What was the toughest part of the job?



	H:	Well, to tell you the truth about it, my job wasn’t tough. I enjoyed my job.



	M:	You did mention before when they changed your weekend. When did that happen?

	H:	Oh now, I didn’t like that now. I didn’t like that. I didn’t like that part of it.



	MH:	The man that I was trying to think of the name of, his name’s Max Robinson. M:	Max Robinson

	MH:	Max Robinson worked for ABC News. She knew him very well. He would come once a year—I don’t know if he’d give a lecture or what it was there. And his





brother is Randall Robinson. Randall Robinson was my friend. He graduated from Harvard and I used to stay in his dorm room. And Randall was the younger brother. Max Robinson died from AIDS. He was the first Black anchor on national TV. And she remembers him very well because they would have conversations when he would come out there. She’s just forgotten. If I showed her a picture she might remember him. You remember the Black man that was on TV, Max Robinson?

	H:	I sure don’t.



	MH:	Yeah, I’ll look for a picture of him. I feel certain she’ll remember. She knew him very well. There were a lot of other celebrities type that came in she knew.

	H:	Mmhm.



	MH:	Black and White.



	H:	Sure was. Lot of people there that I knowed in them other countries. MH:	You knew a lot of Indians, too.

	H:	Mmhm.



	MH:	A lot of Indians.



	H:	Mmhm. I knowed a lot of people from . . . and when I retired, what was that? Something or another they had one time and the director said that I knowed people from all around. And I did. I made good friends with ‘em, too. They was nice to me. I don’t know nobody was nasty to me. I likeded my job out there and everything. Sure did. And one time I was the one that tended to the flowers inside the building and whatnot. Sure did. I enjoyed workin to the Reitz Union. When I





left it was just time for me to go. I had to go. I done got to be—how old was it when you had to go? Mathis? Mathis?

	MH:	I don’t know. Sixty-five?



	M:	It’s usually sixty-five or something like that.



	H:	Sixty-five. I was sixty-five when I retired. And it was just time for me to go. I had to go. I had done stayed my time out. And my director seen to me have a big nice retirement. I got a great big picture of some of the people that was there and everything. He took it and put it together for me and brought it to me. I’m gone show it to you, it’s in there. The director seen to me get all of that. Oh yeah, they was good to me. I enjoyed my job.

	M:	It sounds like it. What was the job like? Did you have to start early there? Or when did you have to come in?

	H:	Oh, I went to work at eight o’clock in the morning. And then sometimes when they would be trying to catch up with some of them was doing things at night they didn’t have no business doing, they would change me around for one or two weeks and then change me back to my day shift. They was trying to catch up with something when they was doing that. Something wasn’t going right with them people.

	M:	Was that tough on your schedule or were you just kind of adjusted or how did that work?

	H:	It worked out good for me. It worked out good. I didn’t have no problem.



	M:	But what about when they switched up the weekend? When did they do that?





	H:	Now you know what, when we changed, went to the new building and all . . . I’m trying to think, who was over me then? I can’t think right now who was over me, but they took my Saturday and Sunday [laughter] and give me two days off through the week. And, honey, I’m so glad I didn’t jump up and leave. I am so glad that I stayed on, ‘cause I do get a little pension.

	M:	Did it make it tough for you to get to church?



	H:	Oh, yeah. I couldn’t go to church, that was the bad part of it. I had to quit going to church. I was goin to Sunday school and the man who taught my Sunday school class is still teaching my Sunday school class at my church now. Mr. Mickle. That Mickle boy what was a judge, his daddy. Is still teaching my Sunday school class now. And I’m trying to get better so I can go to my Sunday school class one or two times. I’m just not able to get around, but I’m trying to feel better where I can go. Oh yeah, I enjoyed goin to my church. I ushered in my church.

	M:	Is that still Mount Moriah or what’s your church now?



	H:	Mount Carmel. My chilren grew up there. When they first started going to Sunday school, they went to Mount Pleasant. ‘Cause the bus would come by and pick em up. And the—what’s his name, runded the place down on Fifth Avenue? Walter Bachman. His wife, one day, when I was coming from work, she said, “Eula Mae! Eula Mae!” She hollered at the place to me “I did somethin for you today that you might not like.” I said, “Ms. Mabel, what you did for me?” “I enrolled your chilren for Sunday school at Mount Pleasant Church.” So they could go to Sunday school. I said, “Oh, Ms. Mabel, I thank you so much.” I said, ‘cause I was thinkin about how in the world my chilren was going to go to Sunday school and I





had to work on Sunday. And what I would do, would get ‘em ready and sit them on the porch and this lady was paralyzed kinda, wasn’t too well. She would sit on her porch and watch ‘em ‘till the bus come by and pick ‘em up. And the bring ‘em back. Oh, I been blessed. The good Lord been good to me. I better serve him, ‘cause he sure been good to me. And they went there for a long time. And then later on, I joined Mount Carmel ‘cause I had not joined a church right then. My aunt went to Mount Moriah and I went with them down there some, but that was way down on the other side of town. And, so anyway, after I joined Mount Carmel, I told the chilrens, I say, “Do y’all want to go to my church to Sunday school?” And they said they didn’t know cause reverend—I can’t recall his name, but he was nice and they likeded goin to Sunday school at Mount Pleasant. And, so, they told me—I let them make up they mind. They told me, say, “We’ll go to your Sunday school one Sunday and see what it’s like.” And I said, “Okay, alright.” And they went and they said, “Momma, we don’t know what to do, we like both Sunday schools. We don’t know what to do.” And then, finally, they decided to come on to my church with me. See, I hadn’t joined a church right then. I was raised up in Georgia with my mother and father in the AME Church.

And I was baptized in the Baptist church here because I was raised up in the AME church and I was sprinkled. And so when I joined the Baptist church here, I had ‘em to baptize me, the preacher he baptized.

	M:	Did you see much difference between the AME and the Baptist? H:	A lot of difference.

	M:	Well, I mean, was it tough for you? Or you just kind of went along with it or what?





	H:	Well, I tell you what now. In the Baptist church, I think they would call they pastor, but in the AME Church, they send the pastor to that church. It was different. I likeded the Baptist church much better. I like the Methodist church all right enough. But it looked like somehow or ‘nother that I just liked the Baptist church. I don’t know, looked like you would learn more or —I don’t know how to say it, but I kinda likeded the Baptist church much better than I did the AME church. But I was raised up at AME church ‘till I was a teenager.

	M:	You’ve been in the Baptist church since then?



	H:	Mmhm. I belong to Mount Carmel. But I ain’t been able to go just right lately. I been kinda trying to recuperate where I can go some more. And I went to Sunday school on Sunday. Bus would pick me up and I would go to Sunday school, bus would bring me back. And not only me, the other people was on the bug going, too.

	M:	You’re talking about when you were younger or recently?



	H:	Well, since I been older and when I was younger too. Mmhm. Yeah. Somehow or ‘nother I always believed in the good Lord. I never was a, what you would say a bad person and didn’t try to serve the Lord. I always was on the Lord’s side, ‘cause God been good to me. Took care of me, I can remember—I told you bout that lady, big fat lady we’d walk that trestle and go on the other side to fish. And that was that Ocmulgee River and that water was yellow looking. And she with her big fat self, she would catch me by the hand and say, “Come on.” And I would be look down and crosstie here and a crosstie there, and look down there and see that water. And the Lord took care of us. We didn’t get drowned. And





she couldn’t swim and neither could I. And the bridge was right ‘round there. And somehow or ‘nother I mentioned it to my mother or something. She got ahold of it some kind of way and she didn’t let me go fishin with her no more. She stopped me from going fishing with her.

	M:	Did you miss it?



	H:	I enjoyed going fishing with the lady. She was nice to me, but we didn’t have no business walking that trestle. The bridge was right there. All we had to do was walk round there to the bridge. And my mother was right, [inaudible 2:14:18] ain’t had no business walking that trestle. And look through there: a tie here and the water there. And look through there and there the water was. And she would catch hold of my hand, big fat woman, and say, “Come on.” And we would walk that trestle. If you could see it, you would see a scary looking thing, hear?

	M:	Yeah.



	H:	We ain’t no business walkin that trestle. And the bridge was right there. M:	Sounds that way.

	H:	We’d go across the bridge and fish, ‘cause my mother didn’t care for fishing and all that kind of stuff. She didn’t care for that, but she would let me go long with her.

	M:	You did mention a Judge McDonald from your divorce. Was he from Gainesville?



Or where was he from?



	H:	He was right here in Gainesville.



	M:	Did you know him outside of that courtroom or you just knew him because of the case?





	H:	Well, I really got to know him when I was getting my divorce and everything. And, I don’t know, what I was trying to say is . . . I’m trying to think of that other [inaudible at 2:15:40] judge, the criminal court judge. He was higher than McDonald. And he was over my case, too. And he told me—that criminal court judge the one that told me this, I can’t think of his name. He say, “You buy yourself a gun and if you have to shoot, you shoot.” ‘Cause my husband was raisin all kind of sand. But it wasn’t because he was in love with me as all of that: I knowed how to keep food on the table. Now that’s what it was; he wasn’t that much in love with me. I got rid of him and got out of that. And one of my neighbors, and he come in and be drunk and fighting and, oh, I don’t know what kind of man I married. I don’t know. But the father was a very nice little ole man. He was a nice man. And from what I can understand the chilren’s momma died when they was little chilren. They say that when she was sick in the bed, the chilren was ‘round the bed when she did, her little chilren. And he had a cousin that lived here name Julia Redding, and she helped raise him and his brother.

She helped with them some, from what I can understand. But I ain’t had no business marrying him, didn’t know what I was doing. But I sho got out of it, though. I had a hard time gettn’ out of it, but I got out of that. And I remember one night we was going to something—I don’t know what it was now, some kind of, something at the church, something or ‘nother. And he sit by me on the bus, it was a van, and he sit by me. And he there reaching over to hug me. I told him, I say, “I thought you understood that I was through with you long time ago.” He got back in that corner and got away from me. I don’t think he wanted the people in





the front to hear. He got away from me. What I wanna do! I done got divorced from him and he done married again? And gone sit up there and let him be hugging me? No sir! Told him, I said, “I thought you understood I was through with you long time ago.” He got back in that corner let me alone. Huh! And another thing about it, after I saw so much going on and everything, I didn’t try to get me none other husband over my chilren. ‘Cause I saw people with men over they chilrens and they didn’t treat em right, didn’t treat em right. It wasn’t right and I wasn’t gone add no more trouble on to. I was already having a rough time of it, trying to raise my chilren, and I wasn’t gone add no more to it. And the good Lord was good to me. The chilrens all got college degrees and doing good.

	M:	Doin great as far as I can tell.



	H:	Sure is. Doing good. And we always had plenty to eat. Always had plenty to eat.



Somehow or ‘nother I always had plenty. We never went hungry.



	M:	Well, even now you’ve got this garden goin back here and yard and all that.



	H:	And I told you ‘bout up on Fifth Avenue, when I was staying up there. The man had a mule and a wagon and he come and broke up my garden for me and I planted vegetables and stuff like that. And I can remember one lady down the street, she had a big nice home back down there. And I didn’t thought she would want none of my vegetables. She come and asked me for some of my vegetables out my garden. I was surprised, ‘cause I didn’t thought she would want none of ‘em, her and her husband. Her husband, I think, worked to the post office, and she was at home. She didn’t work nowhere. Her mother and father lived with ‘em. And I think she kinda seen after them. And he worked at a post





office, had a good job. I don’t know. The Lord been good to me, I can tell you that. The Lord brought me to where I am today.

M:  Do you remember the name of the man with the plow and the mule, the guy who would break up your garden?

H:   See what’s that man’s name . . . Hmmmmm . . . Yeah, but I can’t think of what his name is right now. And him and his wife would pass my house on the mule and the wagon. Oh, what them people’s name?

M:   Did they live around here?



	H:	Oh, they lived over there near me when I was on Fifth Avenue. Up in that area. Oh my goodness. I just can’t recall the name right now, good as I knowed ‘em. They’d rake up my garden for me. And I was surprised when the neighbor down one or two houses was between me and this neighbor, when she would come down there and ask me for some of her vegetables. Because she was livin good, you know. Her husband was working to the post office and chilren and everything, they was doing good. And she didn’t work. Her mother and father live with ‘em, and she seemeded to take care, help look after them. And he had a good job workin at the post office and would drive this car and go early in the morning and come back in the evening. And they were good neighbors and everything, but they was living good, I would [inaudible 2:21:32] [laughter]. And she come and asked me for some of my vegetables out my garden. I was surprised. I didn’t thought she wanted none of my vegetables out of my garden. But I gave her some, much as she wanted. And another thing about it, up in there where I stayed, I didn’t have no fussing and arguments with the people or





nothing. I got along with the people real good. Real good. They didn’t bother me. They treated me good. But they wasn’t good to one another, though. I’m telling you. Some of them go other one’s husband or their boyfriends and, oh, them people wasn’t nice to one another. But somehow or ‘nother I had to work all the time and I didn’t have time to really mix up with them too much. But I was friendly with them. And one of the ladies that was my neighbor, she called me—was it yesterday?—and we talk, I think ‘bout two hours. And she’s over there near, what you call that building, them kinda building where a lot of people stay?

	M:	You mean like a, not a hotel, but like a—



	H:	You know what I’m talking ‘bout. And then she live right ‘cross from it. And you know what she told? She catching hell over there. She likes nice things. And I ain’t been to see her house yet, but I know the house is nice. I know it got to be nice. And she told me that the people come through there, some of ‘em be marching with black on and they throw stuff over in her yard and chilrens be picking at ‘em and . . . that woman, I don’t know, I’d have to get rid of that house and get out from over there. I couldn’t say there. Not with what she telling me.

She worsened her condition. She was my neighbor when I stayed over there on Fifth Avenue. She’s having it rough. And I don’t know why she keep on stayin up in there. I’d get rid of that house and get on from up in there. And she said they be throwing stuff in her yard and childrens be throwing stuff in the yard. These chilren pass through here, they don’t pick at me. Some of them speak to me and some of ‘em don’t. But they don’t bother you. But she catching hell over there where she is.





	M:	Sounds like it. Is that one of the changes you think you’ve seen in Gainesville? H:	Huh?

	M:	Has more of that happened as Gainesville has gotten bigger? Or why do you think it’s happening now?

	H:	Now Gainesville is bigger than what it used to be, now. It has growed like everything. And all them big nice stores like Penney’s and whatnot, them kind of stores wasn’t here.

	M:	It was just the little stores then?



	H:	Little ole—I can remember a ten-cent store was downtown. And they like these grocery stores and whatnot, Winn-Dixie and Publix and all of that, I remember when they wasn’t here.

	M:	Who was the grocery store, or who had it?



	H:	People had little stores on the corners and places. M:	Could you get what you needed there?

	H:	Yeah. Yeah, them stores wasn’t here.



	M:	Did you ever go out to a restaurant or somewhere to eat? H:	Mmhm. I went to some of them places.

	M:	What were your favorite places?



	H:	Well, I didn’t really have a favorite place. Just any of them. M:	You’d just go if you wanted to go out?

	H:	Mmhm. And I enjoyed the food and everything. Everything was nice. But Gainesville, it sure ain’t the little hole-in-the-wall what it used to be. Penney’s and





Belk-Lindsey and all them kinda stores, they wasn’t here. Unh-uh. And Publix and, oh, I can’t think of all of ‘em. Them stores wasn’t here. Unh-uh.

	M:	Do you remember the Cotton Club at all? H:	Yes I do. I had went to it.

	M:	Oh, yeah? What can you tell me about the Cotton Club?



	H:	Well, I can tell you this much, when I was young, in my teens, I went to the Cotton Club—

	M:	Had to slip out to go?



	H:	I enjoyed it. Went with friends and enjoyed it.



	M:	Do you remember who played? Was there a band there?



	H:	Oh, yeah. A band would come from out of town. Other places. It was nice. M:	You had a good time?

	H:	Yeah.



	M:	Were there a lot of people there?



	H:	Oh, yes! Yes, sir. Plenty of people. Mmhm. I have went. I sure have. I been to the Cotton Club. I know all about what you talking about. Uh-huh. Had a good time going there.

	M:	Did you ever go back?



	H:	Oh, yeah. I went more than one time. But I don’t go to them kinda place now [laughter]. I don’t go to them kinda places anymore. But nobody bothered me. I had a good time going there and everything. I sure did. I enjoyed it. Bands would come from out of town and play.

	M:	Do you remember any of the bands? Who they were?





	H:	I can’t remember the names of some of them bands, but they would come from out of town.

	M:	I know people have said, I think, B.B. King and Sam Cooke and— H:	Yeah.

	M:	Did you see any of them there?



	H:	Where did I go in this [inaudible 2:28:01]? B.B. King and Sam Cooke. I’m familiar with them and everything. That was when I was younger.

	M:	Hmm, yeah.



	H:	And I’m ninety-six now. That was when I was young teenager and [laughter]. Yeah, I went to some of those things. Mmhm! And had a good time, too. And didn’t go there and get drunk or nothing, either. ‘Cause I never cared nothing ‘bout drinkin. I don’t know why. Now, my daddy was the kinda man, he didn’t care for drinking either. But I think my mother would take a few little drinks sometime. But my daddy didn’t drink. And I didn’t care for it.

	M:	Did you friends drink when they got to the Cotton Club or other places?



	H:	Oh, yeah. Sure did. Yeah, I was courting an ole boy and he [laughter]. Yeah, he drinked. I would take a little drink once in a while with him, but I didn’t care for it. I didn’t care for it. I’m so glad that I didn’t get hooked on it. I didn’t care for that drinking. I didn’t go for it. Now my younger brother, he drinked heavy, and my other brother, he drank too, but I never—I don’t know why I didn’t care for it. I tried to like it, but I did not like it. Just didn’t care for it.

	M:	No reason you have to.





	H:	While all the rest of them be drinking it up and everything, I’d be sitting there looking.

	M:	Just watching?



	H:	I thank God that I didn’t turn out to be no drunk and care for it. I’m just so happy.



And I tried to like it. I tried to like it, but I just didn’t like it. Sure didn’t.



	M:	Did you do much dancing at the Cotton Club or other places?



	H:	Uh-huh. I would go to dances and dance. Uh-huh. Oh, yeah. I enjoyed dancing when I was younger.

	M:	Were there any bands around here that used to play or were they all from out of town?

	H:	There was one or two little bands around here, but I can’t think of the name of ‘em right now. It was a few little bands around here.

	M:	What’d they play?



	H:	They played to different places like the Cotton Club and places like that. And I can tell you another place where we used to go to dances at. Down to Ocala. What was that man name that had that club down there and we would all go down there to that club? Oh, my goodness, I can’t think of it right now. Was it Dr. Lamb, Dr.—? Oh, I can’t think right now, but we used to go down to Ocala to the dances and have a good time. [Dr. Lamb owned Club Bali in Ocala].

	M:	How’d you get down there?



	H:	I went along with a friend. They had cars and I went along with them. I told you about one of my classmates was sitting up with his ginger ale in his glass, sipping like he was drinking. And he did not drink. He was a nice boy. He was my





classmate. He still living. I calls him sometime, him and his wife. He lives [inaudible 2:31:47]. He don’t live right here in Gainesville, now, he lives—

	M:	A little ways out?



	H:	Mmhm. But I calls him every once in a while and talk to him. M:	I see, but—

	H:	And he was a nice person, very nice person.



	M:	We can keep going, we’ve gone for a pretty long while. I didn’t know if you wanted to stop at this point.

	H:	Well, whatever you want to do. I guess I could stop if you want to. Whatever. M:	I guess I thought I’d just ask again if you remember anything about Max

Robinson. Mathis was mentioning that, I guess you knew a Black newscaster?



	H:	I can’t think of who—Mathis. Mathis? MH:	I’m not being interviewd, Momma.

	M:	Oh, this is about Max Robinson. MH:	Oh, what about him?

	H:	I don’t remember him.



	MH:	Let me get you a picture of him, Momma. You’ll remember him when you see it [inaudible 2:32:37] picture.

	H:	What did he do?



	MH:	Television anchor. Delivered the news. National news, all over the country. H:	I can’t think.





M:  Well, you met a lot of people working over at the Reitz Union then, huh? From what you were saying before, it sounds like on the top floor, that’s where they would put, like, the governors or any of the people who were—

H:   Mmhm.



M:   So you would have met a lot of those people then, didn’t you?



	H:	Oh, yeah. I met a lot of people. And seemed like to me, let me see . . . the Queen was out there. Was somebody in they family was out there one time. And I didn’t get a chance to see ‘em, but where they had their dinner and everything, after they had done left we went in and went and cleaned up where they had been.

Seems like to me, seems like the Queen’s family was at the university some years ago.

	M:	Maybe a prince or something?



	H:	Some of them was there at that university. And I remember it well, where they ate at and everything and we went and cleaned up after they had done left and everything. But it was some of that family.

	M:	Mathis was saying sometimes you used to have some of the international students over for Thanksgiving and that kind of thing. Do you remember any of that?

	H:	I met a lot of people from different countries. Oh, yeah. I met a lot of people from different countries. Mmhm!

	M:	It was quite a job.



	H:	And enjoyed meeting them. Was nice. Some, oh, we talked to one another. And, oh, I enjoyed workin at the Reitz Union. I tell you ‘bout me, my job I enjoyed. But





when they built a new building and all them new people come in there and they took my Saturday and Sunday from me, I didn’t like that. But I thank God I didn’t jump up and leave. I’m so glad I didn’t jump up and leave. I stayed right on there and worked. But I couldn’t go to church no more. I was ushering in the church and I was going to Sunday school and the church service. Couldn’t go no mo’.

But I sent my chilren, though. I sent them. I see to them go.



M:  You said later they put in a grievance for it so they couldn’t just change things— H:  They couldn’t do you like that.

M:   When did they put that in?



H:  I can’t think of what year they put that in, but if they was fixing to get ready to fire somebody or get rid of ‘em, they took you before that grievance board. And you was treated right. You wasn’t treated any kind of way.

M:   So that changed things.



H:   That changed things. I remember it well. I sure do.



M:  Did you ever know anyone else who had that kind of—they’d just change their schedule or things like that?

H:  Yeah, ‘cause I remember one lady, she was working there with me and she was working at night. And, really, I don’t think she was doing her job like she should, ‘cause I think she sat to the desk quite a bit like she was a boss, sitting there.

And, I don’t know, they had her before that grievance board whatnot. But that man, the lady told me, she living now—that the man over the grievance board told the director, Mr. Rion, what was over us at the Reitz Union. This lady been here, I think it was sixteen years or something or the other, they was tryin to get





rid of her. And he said, “She gone have a job.” And they transferred her to . . . I believe it was the medical center. I believe they transferred her to the medical center. And she’s retired now just like me. We called one another and talked to one another and she gets a little small check too, just like me. We all get a little small check. But it hadn’t been for that grievance board she’d have been out from there. ‘Cause they was gone get rid of her. But she really wasn’t doing what she was supposed to do. She’d be sitting up there to the desk at night like she was a boss or something or ‘nother. She wasn’t doing what she was supposed to do. I agree with them trying to get rid of her, ‘cause she was not doin what she was supposed to do. Wasn’t doing right. But, they transferred her to the… I’m trying to think—where did they transfer her to? The veteran’s hospital?

	M:	Well, the veteran’s hospital wouldn’t be UF. I mean, did she go down to Shands where the hospital—

	H:	They transferred her to . . . I’m gone have to ask her sometime, where did she go [laughter]. But they did transfer her, I can say that. But she wasn’t doing what she was supposed to do. Be sitting up to the desk like she was a boss, and she was a person that was supposed to been working. She was wrong. She wasn’t doing right. I saw some of that myself. And she retired. She getting a check, little check just like me. But they didn’t have no trouble out of me. I did what I was supposed to do, and I never was up for no getting’ rid of and all that kind of stuff.

	M:	Just that, the weekend changed, that’s it?



	H:	I just had trouble with the way they treated me when we went from the old building to the new building. And all them new people come in there, and they





was all White people, most of ‘em. And they did what they wanted to do. They give me two days off through the week, took my Saturday and Sunday, and they didn’t work on Saturday and Sunday. I had to work. But you know what, I thank God to David I didn’t jump up and leave. I’m so glad I stayed. I am. I’m glad. I had chilren to be fed. My chilren, how they was gone get food and stuff? And I done got a divorce from the daddy and he wasn’t even giving me the money what he was supposed to give to me. Mmm, I had it.

	M:	But it worked out, too.



	H:	But I tell you what, some of them people what I worked for on my little private jobs and whatnot, they was good to me, good to me. I worked for some good White peoples. Some of them white people was good to me. And I got clothes, clothes, clothes and stuff what they have give me. I got a lot of stuff what they had give me that I haven’t even used. My little granddaughter what fixin to get married, I want her to come down here and get some of this stuff. I sure have. I got nice stuff what they give me that hasn’t been used some of it new. I been blessed. I have been blessed. Sure have.

	M:	Well, I guess that’s a good stopping point for now, unless you—do you have anything else to add?

	H:	Hm?



	M:	Do you have anything else you would want to add or anything else you would want to say?

	H:	No, I guess not right now. But I tell you what: I believe that’s about it for right now. And maybe some time you might come back and talk to me again.





	M:	Maybe some time I might.



	H:	‘Cause I sure wasn’t feelin too good when you first come up here. But I’m glad you didn’t go. I’m glad you stayed and talked to me.

	M:	Well, I am too.



	H:	Uh-huh. I’m glad you stayed and talked to me.



	M:	Well, I can always come back. But, for now, thank you very much. H:	But I’m glad that I stayed and we talked to one another. I’m glad. [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Peggy Dellinger, February 23, 2017 Audit edited by:	Ryan Thompson, April 20, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 23, 2019