AAHP 308; Young; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 308 Leonard and Alonzo Young African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Marna Weston on June 10, 2013 1 hour, 49 minutes | 56 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 308

Interviewee: Leonard and Alonzo Young Interviewer: Marna Weston

Date: June 10, 2013



	W:	This is Marna Weston for the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program, on June 10th, 2013. I’m speaking with graduates of the pre-integration era. I’m speaking with two brothers, Mr. Alonzo Young and Mr. Leonard Young. Gentlemen, thank you very much for speaking with me today. I want to ask first Mr. Leonard Young, if you could open up first. Say and spell your name, and give your date of birth, and then say what you got to say.

	L:	Thank you, my name is Leonard Young, I was born August the 19th, 1954. And I’m—

	W:	Just say what you’ve got to say.



	L:	I’m glad to be here. What was next? W:	Whatever you want to say.

	L:	I’m glad to have this conversation. Let’s see, again, I repeat myself, my name is Leonard Young, I was born August 19th, 1954. I started kindergarten 1959.

During that particular time, it was segregated. So I started off with a segregated school. I realized when I got in the third or fourth grade, we always had raggedy books, torn books. And there were two classmates shared one book. Most of the pages was missing, torn, the cover was barely on. Anyway, what I’m really trying to say is that I at a young age, I really didn’t understand why books and so forth was torn. Anyway, and the elementary school that I attended—what I want to say, the educational level was real bad. There were too many students in the classroom; forty, fifty; it was bad. So, I don’t know, there’s so much in my mind that I want to say. I continued from Williams. Williams Elementary School—I





mean, I left A. Quinn Jones Elementary School and my parents moved to the east side of Gainesville. There I attended Williams Elementary School, fifth grade. Williams Elementary School was a better elementary school, better teachers, and so forth. Upon leaving Williams Elementary School, I went to Lincoln High School, which was the predominant Black school, still segregated, and the school was from seventh grade to twelfth grade—which, you got a seventh grader in school with a twelfth grader. The age gap was too much. But they knew, what I’m saying is, the school system knew, because the White school had a junior high school. We did not have a junior high school. Everybody was there together, seventh graders to twelfth graders. And it was bad, it was really bad.

	W:	Thank you for your opening statements. I will have some specific questions for you, I just wanted you to get that part out. I now want to introduce Mr. Alonzo Young. If you could also give me your date of birth and then whatever you want to say to open things up.

	A:	Riding on the back of my brother, I was born December 31st, 1955. Raised here in Gainesville, Florida. We attended A. Quinn Jones Elementary School, which our house was sort of similar across from A. Quinn Jones, which we walked to school. And, a part of Alachua County. With, I remember going to kindergarten. Again, we had a lot of students in our classroom. We had African American teachers; our African American teachers knew our parents. [Laughter] Also, during that time, discipline. Our parents gave the school teachers permission to discipline, or strap. And they showed, our teachers showed great concerns about





our education. But we did not have the proper materials, educational materials, to compete against the other White schools. But we hung in there because of our teachers really showed concern. Moving forward from A. Quinn Jones—well, I remember one of my teachers at A. Quinn Jones, Miss Taylor; they always gave us some orange juice and some honey graham crackers. And we tried our best learning the ABC’s and the 123’s. And there was times when we had spelling bee competition, and I sort of sat in the back because I didn’t know how to spell. So I was one of those students that was behind. I was behind, trying to catch up with the other students. But as my brother has indicated earlier, we had moved over from the northwest side of Gainesville to the southeast side of Gainesville, and there we attended Williams Elementary School. There we had, again, we had all African American school teachers, females and males. It’s real interesting that we did have males that was there who was, we saw the, what do you call it? Role models. We saw the role models, where there were a lot of African American men there to bring about the discipline, to speak with authority, and that type of thing. And again, as I remember, going there, we had the same books. Here we in fifth grade, we’re using kindergarten books, like, “See Dick run, run, Dick, run.” I still remember it. “Run, run, run.” And this was kindergarten level, we are in fifth and sixth grade. We got the hand-me-down books, we got the hand-me-down materials, but there was nothing that school teachers could have done because of the system during that time. It hurted me bad. And I in a way still feel emotional about it, because of the fact I could have been way advanced in my education than I am now. So that’s part of that, the part elementary. But when we





get into the integration, that’s when we at high school. So we’re not there yet. Unless you want to pause right here?

	W:	This is a good place to get that introduction down. Mr. Leonard, let me talk to you about your folks. Who is your mom, who is your dad, and where were they from?

	L:	My mother’ name was Rosa Young. R-O-S-A, last name is—well, her maiden name was Rosa Days. D-A-Y-S. She’s out of a little country town outside of Gainesville called Jonesville.

	W:	Who was her mother and father?



	L:	Her mother’ name was Lula, but she was raised by her great-great- grandmomma, whose name was—

	A:	Charlotte.



	L:	Her name was Charlotte. A:	She was [inaudible 9:01].

	L:	And Charlotte died because she got my mom at birth when she was very old, but my momma told me great grandmother say, “I want to get this big-eyed girl.” And she brought her—they stayed on twenty-five acres of land, and all the family there, the great great grandmomma, the grandmomma and the mother. And they all shared on this land.

	W:	And that was the Days family?



	L:	That was the Days family, and Londons. W:	Londons. Charlotte was a London?

	L:	Charlotte was a London. And married a Days.





	W:	Now how about on your daddy’s side? What’s his name, and who were his people?

	L:	My dad’ name was Thomas Young. He was from Chipley, Florida, that’s west Florida. A place in Chipley called Orange Hill. It’s a very rural area, and he moved from Chipley, Florida with his dad. They moved from Chipley—my granddaddy was in turpentine. He cutted pine trees and the turpentine dripped, and he moved to Gainesville.

	W:	And what was his name?



	L:	His name was George Young. W:	And his wife?

	L:	His wife’ name was, last name was Kent. My grandmother on my father’s side died when my father was seven years old.

	W:	Okay now, back to your dad’s wife, what was her last name again? Her maiden name before she got married.

	L:	Kent. K-E-N-T. And she was Causasian. And my granddaddy was very jet-Black, very dark-skinned man. I never got the opportunity to meet my grandmother; like I say, she died when my dad was seven. And my granddaddy raised the family, which was about, I think it was eight of them. And I never could come to an understanding how, during that particular time, a Black man with a White woman.

	W:	And where were the Kents from?



	L:	The Kents were from Chipley. I went there once when I was in the military, I drove through. And I met some of my relatives in Chipley. And I come to understand that the Whites and the Blacks were different from any other





community; they worked together. And I never seen it like that. So I come to understand that, what I was saying was that I never understood how could my grandfather marry a Caucasian? And so, I’m saying approximately 1930s and 1940s, how did he get by with that? That still amaze me today. But as I was saying, when I went to Chipley—my dad had never took me there, but he talked about it a lot—I seen Blacks and Whites together. So I to this day, I can’t understand how that happened. Seemed like there was very little prejudice there, in this little rural area called Chipley, Florida, in west Florida. So, anyway—

	W:	Do you have any knowledge of your grandparents’ mother and father, who they might’ve been? On the other side, your mom’s or you dad’s?

	L:	Yes, my mother, who is living today, she’s 83 years old, she told me that a lot about my grandmother and great-grandmother, which, like I was saying earlier, that my great-grandmomma raised her. And she told her about slavery. And my great-grandfather was in slavery. And she went on to tell me, as they were telling her as a young age as they were raising her, how they get to Jonesville.

	W:	Now, this is Charlotte’s husband? What was his name?



	L:	His name was Benjamin Days. Benjamin London Days. Depending on what side—

	A:	Both of them dead.



	L:	Both of them dead. Benjamin Days, as the story goes, in South Carolina— A:	I can pick up from that. I can pick up.

	L:	Go ahead.





	A:	This is Alonzo. I had to do a study on my family. The Days’ side of the family, my mother did not know who her grandfather were. So I found out that my mother’ cousin, Olivia Day, her mother was very smart. She was a educated woman. She left a family tree in the Bible. In the Bible, everything was broken down. So I asked Olivia to give me that information so I can find out about our grandfather. She gave me the information where he was born, and it’s a little place called Clinton, Georgia. In Clinton, Georgia, I traveled, I went back, and sort of like going back to the future. So I went back and I had went to the courthouse there, there was only one Days family that was in Clinton, Georgia, and his name was George Days. He was a judge, he was well respected slave owner. It was the property; we were considered as property. And the way I found out that my grandfather was there: he only had one property person, and that person was seventeen years old. And my grandfather was seventeen at that time. They had only one property on it, and that was my grandfather. So we did a little background study on Granddad. So, when they had the Civil War, then Judge Days sold his property to another gentleman. So after the freedom and all that type of thing came, then my great-grandfather moved—after the Civil War—then he moved to Macon, Georgia. And then he married my great-grandmother, and then that’s how the Days family began. There was three boys and one girl.

	W:	Do you know the names?



	A:	I know the names, but not offhand.



	L:	This is Leonard Young again. My momma told me stories of my great- grandmomma who raised her. She told me, which her name was Charlotte, and





his name was Ben. My momma went on telling me stories about Ben. Ben came here on a slave ship as a little boy. He was a slave as a little boy. When he got to the plantation in South Carolina, he was possibly—I don’t his age, but he was a boy. So he didn’t really work in the field, but he brought water to the slaves. Upon the Civil War, after the slavery and the freedom of Black slaves at that time, my grandfather was at that particular time was a man. He met an Indian woman, her name was Charlotte.

	A:	Cherokee.



	L:	Cherokee, and she was Cherokee in South Carolina, and he moved to Jonesville.

	A:	No, at the time it was called Wakakulla. It’s on the outside, behind Fort Clarke.



	L:	So, that was very interesting to me, and that’s pretty much the story. I always felt that the Blacks, the Africans that were here in America, was owed something for the murder, the rape, of our people. And the abduction from Africa of our people. When I speak of this to other African Americans, they offensive. But I look back on my ancestors; they broke the land of America, they broke the field of America while the Whites were still being educated. And to this day, 2013, always feel, I would like to think one day that we’d get paid for our slavery. For the work in the field, the rape of our women, the abduction from Africa of all the ancestors. And I really feel strongly about that, and I wish and I pray one day that we get reimbursed for the great America that we live in. And it’s really a great country, one of the most powerful countries in the world. But the African Americans played a great role in it. A highly great role in that. We was oppressed; today,





many Black Americans is oppressed. We live—most Black Americans today live in the projects, government houses. So what I’m trying to say, that’s oppression, we still oppressed. Mentally, most Black Americans is still not free from the oppression of two hundred years. And I like I say again, I don’t want to keep repeating myself, I think America owe the Black Africans, the Black Americans, something.

	A:	This is Alonzo back. And I agree with my brother. I think about the—even at Williams, now: you remember when we used to walk across the field there? It was a dumping area.

	W:	Williams Elementary here in Gainesville.



	A:	Yes, it was a landfill dump. And we used to walk across that. You could see purple bubbles coming up out of the ground.

	L:	You see the bubble coming out of the ground. As kids; we was nine and ten, and we walked across this—.

	A:	And smelling that stank gas and all that type of stuff. It was terrible. And that was real affecting. Not only that, going through the process of trying to get our education and going through these emotional, psychological breakdowns; integrating us when we was expecting to graduate from Lincoln High School, the red, white, and blue, the Terriers; and seeing the role models of our African American males and females, we was expecting that. And it was a great psychological failure for us. We marched, we walked the streets of Gainesville, because we didn’t want them to close Lincoln High School down. We were sort of confused, why was they closing Lincoln High School down, and keeping





Gainesville High School open? So, they shut our history down, all our history, from our older sisters and brothers, and our friends, and our cousins. Because they graduated from Lincoln. We wanted to graduate from Lincoln.

	W:	Do you feel disconnected from Lincoln’s history because of that forced integration?

	A:	Yes. Yes, yes, yes. That hurt.



	L:	This is Leonard Young again. I looked up to Martin Luther King, but I didn’t believe in everything that he represented. I didn’t necessarily believe in integration, because to the Caucasian race, integration was closing our school down and building new schools. Or building new schools and closing, like my brother said, the history of the Blacks. In 1969, here in Gainesville, Florida, the government forced the state of Florida to integrate. And we rebelled, and marched, and protested that, because they wanted to close the Black schools down. During that particular time, I was fourteen years old, in the middle of the ninth grade. So, we decided to march, like every other city and town in America. We marched and we protested, we no longer went to school. We protested up and down the University of Florida, at the University of Florida, to save our school. During that particular time, we missed a lot of school. Missed a lot of school.

	A:	A lot of riots broke out.



	L:	Lot of riots, Blacks and Whites fighting. W:	Right here in Gainesville?

	L:	Like any other city.





	W:	Well, describe like a place, give a physical location in town where a fight took place, please.

	L:	While we were protesting, protesting was a march, everybody was going along with Martin Luther King. Nonviolent, just protesting, coming down from Main Street of Gainesville and University Avenue. We started from Lincoln High School in southeast, and marched to Main Street and University Avenue. Upon coming downtown, you had Whites calling us niggers, and some of the Blacks who were protesting start throwing rocks, breaking windows. And here come the police. At that particular time here in America, the police upheld the law, and the law was all White. So we was wrong, anything that we did. So I’m going to move on from that: upon integration, after closing Lincoln down, here in Gainesville they built two new high schools. And like I say again, I was in the ninth grade.

The two new high schools were Eastside and Buchholz. The school that me and my brother went to was Eastside. They zoned or they mapped it, whatever you want to call it. So whatever zone they mapped out, that’s the school you went to. And like I say, again, we went to Eastside. Upon—let me go back. While they was building, when they closed Lincoln down—finally, they closed Lincoln down—while they was building Eastside and Buchholz, we went to Howard Bishop, which was a predominant White school. And then they had two sections: the two new schools that they was going build? In the morning, it was Eastside— but we at this Howard Bishop, now, at this predominant White junior high school, and in the evening section was going to be Buchholz.

	W:	So you were double-sessioned.





	L:	We were double-sessioned. Upon the double session—now we busing, now, the first time. We used to walk to school at Lincoln High School, because the Black school was in the Black neighborhood. Now we busing. Upon exiting the bus— when you exit the bus, it was fights. Whites—oh, it was chaos at the school.

Blacks fighting Whites, Whites—it was chaos.



	A:	And Leonard, you remember the guy threw the rebel flag?



	L:	They come out, some of they Whites after exiting the bus, had rebel flags, they were protesting also. Rednecks, real rednecks. It was fighting. It was a lot. So what I’m trying to say is, that whole year, my ninth grade, I missed a lot of education. We done missed a lot of education. Upon Eastside and Buchholz opening, which was the next year, which is 1970, we got bused. Me and my brother went to Eastside. This what they did: Eastside was from seventh to tenth grade, which, we was the tenth graders. We had no eleventh graders, we had no twelfth. Upon us graduating from tenth to eleventh, we were the eleventh graders, we were juniors. Upon graduating our junior year, we was the seniors.

So, we was the first class graduated from Eastside.



	W:	Alonzo, let me ask you a little bit: I want to back to your middle school, your elementary school for a second. Because when both of you talked about how you were hurt, not being able to go to Lincoln and be Terriers, that’s a consistent theme I’ve heard from people. So you went to an all-Black Williams Elementary. Then you went to—

	A:	It was A. Quinn Jones, okay? Then when my parents moved over to the southeast side, then we moved to Williams Elementary. Then from Williams





Elementary, after we graduated from Williams, then we went to Lincoln High School.

	W:	Okay, now, what grade were you at Lincoln High School? A:	Seventh, Lincoln went from seventh to twelfth grade.

	W:	Okay, so seventh and eighth grade, you’re growing up expecting to go to Lincoln High School. What was the experience like at Lincoln High School for you?

	A:	Oh, man! Oh, man! It was beautiful.



	W:	Okay, talk about Lincoln first: what was great about it, what was beautiful about it?

	A:	Like I said, Lincoln had—everybody knew everybody. My dad knew the teachers, the teachers knew. [Laughter] Everybody knew everybody.

	W:	Who was the principal?



	A:	John Dukes. Very good man, very good man. The teachers was real nice to us.



And they would bring the discipline, there was no guns or nothing like metal detectors. They also had prayer in school.

	L:	No police on campus.



	A:	Yeah, no police on campus. It was, everybody knew everybody. And the teachers was more focused on making sure we get our grades. Making sure we get our education.

	W:	What was your favorite subject when you were at Lincoln?



A:  My favorite subject? I really didn’t have a favorite subject. Because the teachers, the African American teachers made every subject exciting. And I was like, I was mostly being the clown. [Laughter]





	W:	What clubs or activities were you involved in?



	A:	At seventh and eighth grade, I wasn’t involved in any clubs. I was just there to— W:	Math club, Spanish club, chess club? Sports?

	A:	My interest was in music, in the band. I was going be part of the Lincoln High School band, there with Mr. Miller. But I never did got a chance, because of the integration and that type of thing.

	W:	Now did you hear about it coming, when you were in seventh and eighth grade, did they tell you all, “Hey, in a couple of years—”?

	A:	Everybody knew what was their next step. You know, football. Lincoln had everything there. They had welding; if you didn’t make it in the books, they had the welding, they had brick mason, they had drafting.

	W:	So they had vocational arts for you to prepare you for a trade if you weren’t going to go to college. And people looked forward to that.

	A:	Right, the women had—



	W:	Home Economics, cosmetology.



	A:	So, all of that was there at Lincoln; they had it, man. So in a way, you wasn’t worried. It was a secure place.

	W:	There was no knowledge, no understanding about how in 1955, there’d been Board of Education, the schools were supposed to be integrated, but it was coming in 1971, you all didn’t know it was coming at all?

	A:	I wasn’t aware of it. I wasn’t aware of it. I wish they would have started from kindergarten. It wouldn’t have affected us. Because we was in the middle of that





transaction as high school, you know, we was in the middle of it. And that affected us real psychologically.

	W:	So you didn’t have any guidance counselors or principals saying, “Now, next year, you all going to have to go to the integrated school.”

	A:	We didn’t have that.



	W:	How did you find out that you were going to have to, after eighth grade, how did you find out you were going to have to go to the Howard Bishop school as a transition to the new schools. What was the warning?

	A:	It was through our parents, through the news media, our teachers told us. W:	Last day at school, eighth grade, something like that?

	A:	No, it was—as I remember, it’s probably about six months, six months before they ended school.

	W:	Did you physically see the closing of Lincoln High School, them closing the doors?

	A:	Yeah. It was—oh man, we cried. And some people, they turned over their lockers because they say, “They have already destroyed the school, so we might as well tear up our own school.” So in a way, it was this—you know, “You all not going have our school, we would rather destroy our own school.” And one thing also that was hard for us, is that Lincoln was a newer school, the building facility, than Gainesville High School. So it was a whole lot of confusion with us.

	W:	Why would you keep our newer school than the old Gainesville High School?



And what do you think the reason was?





	A:	We felt that the Whites wanted to keep their history going, and close our history. They want to separate us. But they kept themselves together, but they separated our history, they destroyed our history. So, we felt that that was one of the main things that they wanted to do.

	W:	Let me ask your brother the same question: while you were gone, we were talking about the transition that you had in seventh and eighth grade. So first, let me ask you, what was seventh and eighth grade like for you at Lincoln?

	L:	Seventh and eighth grade at Lincoln to me was very scary. Here I am approximately, I guess, fourteen or thirteen, I’m in the school with seventeen, eighteen-year-olds, which is, they had twelfth grade. What I’m saying is that I’m still young and immature, now I’m in there with bigger students, more mature students. So I feared a lot, I feared a lot at this school, like I say was from seventh to twelfth, where the Whites had a junior high. Because, separate that.

	W:	You didn’t have teachers you could look up to, or mentors when you were in seventh and eighth grade, you didn’t feel at home?

	L:	I felt at home, but it was a lot of students there. The African American in Alachua County was there. Newberry. The rural areas—

	W:	Hawthorne and everywhere.



	L:	Not Hawthorne. Yeah, Hawthorne too. Hawthorne, too. Not only the inner city, but the rural city: Hawthorne, Newberry, Alachua, there’s a lot of Blacks there. The whole African American in Alachua County was there, too. So it was a big school. It was discipline there. But if you got out of bounds, you could get in trouble. You could get in some trouble. What I’m saying is, getting in some fights.





If you stayed within the system, but, being so young, sometimes you get out of the system. You know, like, outside of the school and so forth. And you had thugs there, too; not many, but they’d gather and shoot dice outside. A little, not much, but you could get in trouble.

	W:	Did you have a favorite subject, or activity, or club you were involved in in seventh and eighth grade?

	L:	Seventh and eighth grade, no, no activity. Well, I always wanted to play football, and my dad likeded football but he never played. Matter of fact, he never throw me a football, but he always took me to all Lincoln High School games, ever since I was a kid.

	W:	What was a Lincoln High School game like?



	L:	It was great. Now, that was—oh, that was excellent. That was great. Matter of fact, as long as I remember, my dad took me to all the games. It was a family affair. And he goes all out of town to Palatka, Ocala, Jacksonville; he followed the team. Matter of fact, I became All-State football player, upon going to Eastside High School, because of the games that my dad had took me to. And I used to— see, I was a running back, and during this time when they were taking me to these games, since I was a little kid, when the running back scored a touchdown my mom used to jump up. You know, “Good, good, good!” I used to hold onto her dress. And I looked up in her face, and she was so happy. And I decided that day, one of those games, I was going to become a football player and make my momma happy. So Lincoln, like my brother was saying, it was cultural.

	W:	Everybody you knew came to the games.





	L:	Everybody we knew came to the game, the game was the thing. W:	And what was half time like?

	L:	Half time was excellent. The band, the battle of the bands, and everybody running around jumping.

	A:	Let me share some halftime. Because—Alonzo, this is Alonzo. Now the band, like I say, I wanted to play with Lincoln High School band, but I never got a chance. But when we integrated, when we went to Eastside High School, they said, “We have a band, we got a band.” So, upon going to high school, my mom, I told momma I wanted to play trumpet. And mom, I needed a trumpet to play. My mom loved us so dear, and she worked another job to get me trumpet. So I got the trumpet, I learned how to play a trumpet. Our band director was Mr. Richard Parker. He could write music, I learned how to play music with the trumpet.

Today I cut CDs because of my mom and Mr. Parker. So our halftime show? Oh man, at Eastside, we had the band. We had the band. They called us “Little FAMU” during the time I came up. Man, we would march down University Avenue, everybody would follow us. We would dance, we would play the latest jams, it was like Drumline. Man, we the band. During halftime, my brother, he always say, “I made y’all play music,” because he scored the football. He made the touchdowns. “I made y’all play music.” And, man, we had the band. During halftimes, I’ll never forget, we played Palatka Central; they had a band. It was the battle of the bands, man. Oh, man, we danced, we danced, the audience enjoyed, they were dancing. Everybody had a really nice time, man. Real nice time.





	L:	This is Leonard again. Going back to Lincoln High School, I remember as a little boy, they used to rent this—well, it’s like an old ambulance truck, like a big van. And during that time, the Black community was the Black community, the dry cleaners and the little restaurant, it was all together. And the businesses that the Blacks had at the time supported. So I’m going on to say this: this van that goes around to pick up the laundry? Every Friday during football season, they put a bullhorn on the top of this van. And it go around Gainesville, all the Black community, you hear this bullhorn from a very long distance. “Come to Lincoln High School tonight, going be a very good game. Lincoln vs. Raines of Jacksonville.” I was a little kid, but you just clapping, you hear this bullhorn four or five blocks before it get to you. “Come to Lincoln High School, you’re going to have a great—.” It was all Black, you know? What I’m trying to say is that Blacks was family. The Black community was family, the Blacks—when they took our school away from us, it destroyed us again. So—

	W:	Do you think that affected the businesses, too? L:	It affected the businesses, too.

	A:	And we also have more—we didn’t hardly have guys going to prison. During that time, it was no prison thing, it was no drugs coming into our community. You know, they had a little alcohol, drinking, but there was no drugs coming into our community. Nobody focusing on going to prison. Our prison system was less, you know, but the African American males, what we were focusing on was getting our education. They drilled that in us: “Get your education. Get your high school diploma.” And upon that, it was a cycle. You come back and invest in your





community. You become a school teacher, you become a doctor; you invest this back into your community. You establish your business. So integration; now, we don’t have that anymore.

	L:	This is Leonard again. As my brother was saying what he was saying, something else came within my mind. I remember upon Lincoln closing, and going to Eastside, like my brother was saying, it was no drugs at Lincoln High School because it was discipline. The Black teachers, Black principal, the Black deans did not play that. You know, your shirts were tucked in. It’s not the young Black kids today with their pants all hanging down with the drawers, that was unheard of. They had to be tucked in. But I remembers when Lincoln closed down—these thoughts just came to my mind—as we went to Eastside, now, we integrated now, and we were with the Whites, but I remember seeing—after maybe six months at Eastside, I remember seeing Blacks smoking reefer with the Whites.

So what I’m trying to say is, the Whites introduced drugs to the Blacks upon integration. And I stayed away from drugs at that time. And I go in the bathroom and they smoking reefer, Blacks and Whites smoking reefer, and so forth. During that particular time, upon going to Eastside, let’s saying, relationship with the White woman? I was scared, I feared that. I think—I only can speak on my behalf, but coming from our segregated school, you know, you kind of, you heard what happened to our ancestors dying, being hanging up in trees, shot, dragged by trucks. So at Eastside, I became this football player, and I was like a star at the school, and a lot of Caucasian females would come to me. But I pretended, but I was afraid to say anything to them. And I just wanted to express that. I





feared that, at the beginning of this integration. And I look back on it, I wish I ain’t feared! [Laughter]

	W:	Now what was basketball like? We talked about how great football was, what about basketball season?

	L:	At Lincoln or Eastside?



	W:	Whichever one you want to talk about.



	L:	At Lincoln High School, basketball season was less popular than football.



Football was the thing. A lot of the parents didn’t come to the basketball game. But at the football game, you had your mother, father, your sisters and brothers, your grandmomma. But basketball was, you know, at the school, and it was at the gymnasium. So at Lincoln High School, the basketball was kind of less than football. But my parents, we went to the games, the basketball games, and it was a lot of fun also. It was a lot of fun. You know, I’m glad I had this conversation today, because it took me back to the past. I’m fifty-eight, I’ll be fifty-nine in two months, and I haven’t thought about these things in a very, very long time. You know, I love America, I really do, I love America. But Black America, African Americans, has suffered a lot of pain, here. A lot of pain. And I’m just pleased and very happy to have this interview. And I don’t know, whoever might listen to this, the bits and pieces, and learn from it. And I’m hoping that I can educate, and tell my story and my feelings about my past, and the past of Black America in Gainesville, Florida. I’m just thrilled and happy to do this. And the question was asked about the basketball again. Like I say, the basketball was less popular than football. But football, it was still a family, it was a family affair.





	W:	What about at Eastside?



	L:	Eastside, it wasn’t a family affair anymore. It wasn’t a family affair, it was like—it was less, it was less. At that particular time at the basketball game, in the gym at the high school, you had Blacks and Whites there. And it was different, everybody trying to feel each other, which what I’m saying, the Black parents and the White parents, you know, we still looking at each other being strange, you know? Trying to figure one another out.

	W:	Were there Black students on the basketball team? L:	Yeah, it was mixed, the basketball team.

	W:	And student government, everything, were there Blacks and Whites involved in those things?

	L:	Okay, let me talk about student government at Eastside: yeah, it was the Blacks didn’t participate too much in the government body, the student council. But we had one or two on the student council. By me being a football star there, I remember the dean, he was Black. His name was Course Hawthorne, bless his heart. He came to the classroom and he from Lincoln High School, he went to Eastside with us. He came to the classroom, and said “You going go on the lunchroom committee.” And I was on the lunchroom committee. And the lunchroom committee goes into the cafeteria, and we tell them how the food was, what kind of food that we liked. So I enjoyed that, being on the lunchroom committee.

	W:	What about the prom and things like that?





	L:	The prom. Okay, let me say this: Eastside was predominant Black. I’m going to say this: let’s say, sixty-forty; sixty percent Black and forty percent White. So there was more Black students than White students, but after a year, we got along. Now, our homecoming queen, she was Black. Her name was Maxine Jenkins. She was a very beautiful girl. And the Whites voted on her, too. She was smart and she was beautiful. So you know, we came together as student body.

Okay, my brother is asking about some of the White guys I played football with. At the beginning, we didn’t get along. Matter of fact, one of them told me he wasn’t going to block for me. But after a while, he started blocking for me, because football is a team, and we were losing. And as time passed we all became together. You know, I remember the first time I hugged a White guy.

When I scored a touchdown, he came up and hugged me. And that made me feel so good.

	W:	What was his name?



	L:	His name was Dale Ruddock. We played Jacksonville Bolles. I got to tell this story. We played Jacksonville Bolles, which was at that time, it was predominantly White. And we played them in Jacksonville, at Bolles High School. Upon entering Bolles, on the campus of Bolles High School, we was exiting the bus. I was one of the last football players exiting the bus. As I got into the locker room, the other football players, including the White ones, they gather around me and say, “Leonard, Leonard.” They say, “Look at the niggers coming in this locker room.” I say, “What?” They say, “Look at the niggers coming in this locker room.” They say, “Leonard.” Including the Whites on our team, they didn’t like that





either. And I never forgot this, they say not, the defensive players on my high school team say, “They ain’t going to score a touchdown.” And the Whites at my high school say, “That’s right, they ain’t going to score.” They told me, “I want you to bust this game”—meaning that, “I want you to turn out, because they not going to score no touchdown.” Jacksonville Bolles are very, very—let me explain what I seen, that Jacksonville Bolles. Jacksonville Bolles was a very rich school in Jacksonville. I don’t know whether it was a Catholic or what. But it was a rich school. The stadium, the football stadium was one of the most beautiful football stadiums I’ve been to.

	W:	And they was talking smack to you all coming in. L:	Calling us, “Look at the niggers on the team.”

	W:	So you could hear it.



	L:	Oh, yeah, yeah! And anyway, everybody was very, very upset. Everybody was very, very angry. And like I say, again, the defense, including the Whites on our team that played defense, on the defensive side of our team, said, “They ain’t going score a touchdown.” And I was the running back, and I was like the star, and they told me, “Leonard, bust ‘em.” “Bust ‘em” means turn it out. “We going beat them.” And anyway, the end results was 44 to nothing. I mean, you know.

	W:	How many touchdowns you score?



	L:	I scored four touchdowns. I remember after that particular game, in the locker room, I felt unity among the Whites on our team. I mean, they stuck with us.

	W:	That was a turning point for your team?





	L:	That was a turning point for our team. And we got there and we sung. We made a circle in the locker room at Bolles.

	W:	I can tell it’s emotional for you. It’s like a watershed moment; you all finally came together, and it was over the other side making these racial comments. You found brotherhood with your White brothers as well.

	L:	Yeah.



	W:	Did you have a moment like that Alonzo, when you were in school? I know your brother was in sports, and that’s a deep thing to go into battle. What kind of battles did you have that might have brought you the same kind of thing?

	A:	Well, I was in the band. We had a Black band director, Mr. Richard Parker. Now, with going into the musical, now some of the guys, the White guys—there was one White guy as I remember, because I played the trumpet. I sat in the third seat. The White guy sat in the first seat. It was a White guy, then a Black guy, then me. I don’t know if it’s because of his rearing, where he grew up with, his father took time with him playing the trumpet and this type of thing. With me, I did not have that rearing. Only time that I could play the trumpet was with Mr. Parker, he had a little time he could share with us. And the time that I would go home and play my instrument by myself. I had to learn by myself. There was no one that taught me. But when he went home, his father was a trumpet player, the White guy who sat in the first seat. His father taught him a whole lot. With me, my father wasn’t a musician. But my mom, like I said, she worked the extra job and made sure I learned how to play the trumpet. Now with the competition, I wanted to compete against him, because there was a time where Mr. Parker would say





to compete to get into the seat position, to get in the higher seat. I wanted to compete against that guy. [Laughter] But I knew I couldn’t outplay him, because of his advancement, his musical advancement and that type of thing.

	W:	Did you all go to state as a team together with the band?



	A:	Yes, we went to the—oh, man! Now, we went to—at the University of Florida, they had the state competition, the marching. We made a one, we was good. We had a hundred—matter of fact, I got a picture of that; we had a hundred guys marching. Most predominantly, we had Blacks in the band. But we also, in concert, the first concert we did, we made a two. The second concert, we made a one, concert band. So, I learned a lot. I learned a lot with Mr. Richard Parker. But I never got with the Whites to play privately; we never played privately. Only the Blacks, we went to ourselves, and I think they went to theirselves. But we never, I never played—only time we played, when we came together in the band. That’s the only time we played together.

	W:	What would you say was the highlight of your time at Eastside High?



	A:	Like I said, I liked the music. It was band. It was all band with me. The highlights, like you earlier, was the prom. And I remember Lena, Lena invited me to the prom. [Laughter] That was a highlight. Halftime, when we played and we entertained the people during halftime. I remember Shaft; Mr. Parker wrote “Shaft.” It was a White female, she played the high hat, the high hat of the drums, with the ch-ch-ch-ch. And we played “Shaft,” we played “I’ll Be There.” We played all the latest soul music during that time.

	W:	“Light My Fire”?





	A:	Yeah, yeah. We played it. And Mr. Richard Parker, he knew how to write it. He would sit down and listen to the record player and write the music. And next thing you know, we’ll be playing it. So we kept up with the style, the style of music. And we danced on the field, everybody liked us. Everybody enjoyed us. So we had— now some of the Whites, we had to teach them how to do the dance. [Laughter] Lot of those guys, they were still—. But we worked through that, we ironed that out. It was a joyful moment.

	W:	When was the last time you’ve been back at Eastside High and attended a school or community activity? Or have you ever, since you left?

	A:	I went to Eastside probably about two years ago, viewed the building. It was not like Eastside when I first went back. I went there to get some of the pictures because one of our classmates’ decease, and it’s not like it was when me and when my brother attended.

	W:	Do you feel a connection between the modern Eastside High School and Eastside when you went?

	A:	No.



	W:	Leonard, you said “no” first, so I want to know why you feel that way.



	L:	This is Leonard again. I’m trying to get you to understand this, is that when we got to Eastside, once again, I said we was in tenth grade, so we was the seniors. As we go to eleventh grade, we was the eleventh graders. As we go to twelfth grade, we was the twelfth graders. We went to first class that graduated from Eastside High School.





	W:	So that should represent all the classes that followed you, then. You all the first.



Yeah.



	L:	Upon entering Eastside at tenth grade, we voted on the school color. W:	Orange and green?

	L:	Orange and green, which came from FAMU. We named the mascot, which we called the Rams. And like you say, it’s still around today. So our class sort of was like the father of all the other class.

	W:	You’re the progenitors. You gave it to everybody.



	L:	We did, we gave it to everybody. We named the yearbook, Rams Country. So we named everything as the father.

	W:	Now, they made changes. They changed the fight song, for example, is different from the song I heard the other day. But I’m curious why you don’t feel—with all this being said that you were the originators, the progenitors of the modern Eastside High School, the first integrated graduating class with school-mandated integration, why do you feel a disconnection with the Eastside High School that currently exists?

	L:	I think it’s the White and the Blacks came together as Eastside, but it was different. The unity still wasn’t as great as Lincoln High School. It was like a family. And then again, as attending Eastside High School, we still—we didn’t visit our classmates’ homes, and they didn’t visit our homes. So it was still like a little gap there. So the question was asked, “Have you been back to Eastside?” It’s been forty years today. I went there once or twice just looking at it, and never went inside. Matter of fact, I don’t know if it was open. I just went over there just





to look at the building, outside of the building. By the front, I’ve seen it was a plaque there, like a statue. And then we collected money to put the “Rams Country” there. Our class did that. And I looked at this plaque, which was made of block concrete that we got together and sold pies and cookies, washed cars, and got this money to build this plaque there, on the outside of Eastside. I don’t know if you see it there, it got “Rams Country,” orange and green, with a ram head on it. And the question was asked, “Have you been back there?” I’ve been back there twice in forty years. I never went back into the building, but I parked my car and I got outside my car just looking at the building, and I remembered this plaque that we did. And I looked at this plaque of a ram head, and orange and green, and that brought me joy, that brought me happiness. And I reminisced during that particular time, maybe ten or fifteen minutes, thinking about the past of Eastside. So I don’t know today, I was told today upon maybe five years after graduating from Eastside, they zoned it again. And my community, which is Lincoln Estates, was zoned to Buchholz, because that’s a predominant White area. Because football-wise, or athletic-wise, they never beat us. We played them about four or five times during part of my football career at Eastside. And it was really no game. So I was told maybe, like I say again, five or six years afterward, they rezoned it. They wanted—like I say, here come the Whites, here come the Caucasians again. They rezoned my area that I was brought up in and raised in, which was Lincoln Estates, and they took Lincoln Estates and zoned it to Buchholz.

	W:	Do you feel that was something—Eastside’s history taken away?





	L:	Taken away again. Eastside’s history taken away again.



	A:	Let me interject something. This is Alonzo. I was also, when I went there, they had no band. Eastside has no band anymore. Since all this relocation, and a lot of Blacks went into the music of the band because that was a cultural thing. So now, I was informed Eastside has no band.

	W:	Is that a disconnect for you?



	A:	Yes, because now it’s more predominant White, and the band was more like a cultural soul band, dancing, this type of thing. Now the band has taken, several years ago, has become more of a White culture type of thing. Like a Florida band, they play more of the White music and do the more of the White drills.

	W:	They trying to get a little bit better, but I know what you mean. The pride and sunshine has been getting better. You know, FAMU came to town—this was back when we played them—we beat them 63-3, but it’s like the band beat our band 63-3. [Laughter]

	L:	That’s our Eastside band. You know, we talking about the band, my brother played in the band, he was a trumpet player. I mean, the whole Gainesville loved the Eastside band. Was like little FAMU. And I remember during the Gator Homecoming, and Eastside band was in there, and everybody followed—it was like Lincoln High School again! Everybody followed Eastside down University Avenue during the Florida Homecoming game.

	W:	Would the re-establishing of the band at Eastside, though, be an opportunity to bring the generations together? This is a picture of Eastside band?

	A:	Yeah, that’s me. Got the trumpet up.





	L:	Lil’ FAM.



	W:	This is on University Avenue. Okay, that’s right in front of where like the—is this closer to the campus or is that downtown?

	L:	That’s Main Street and University.



	W:	Okay. So I’m saying, is this an opportunity to bring the generation together? I mean, Eastside, to rebuild the glory of the band?

	L:	Exactly, exactly. And I can say again—you know, I live in Tampa now, been in Tampa thirty years now. I came for a class reunion, I’m glad I came. But you know, like yesterday, I asked in my neighborhood where my mom still live, which is Lincoln Estates, I asked a little kid walking down the street, “What school do you go to?” He say Buchholz. And another interruption again, in what we built, it was torn down again.

	W:	Do you think that was intentional, or was that just circumstance of the time?



	L:	My high school coach told me or told us, “This ain’t going to be long, what we building.” They knew that, “Our side of town, we going go to Buchholz.” Because that’s where the lawyers at, the White lawyers, the White doctors, the White everything, prominent everything is there, and they want to build that. And they did it, they did it. So I was hurt again, I was hurt again. But as the story goes on, another day.

W:  I’m going to ask you just to speak among yourselves for just a few minutes. So please just add as you will without my direction. Maybe you can talk about how you feel about the reunions.





	L:	We just recently had an Eastside class reunion, which was the first class that graduated from Eastside. I was, my brother came and got me from Tampa to attend this reunion. I was very skeptical to attend, but as I got there, I enjoyed it. I mean, I really enjoyed it, the atmosphere was positive. I laughed, I had fun. I really did. I reminisce as I see classmates again, so I really enjoyed. Everybody wasn’t there, but it was enough that attended that was there. So you know, it was great.

	A:	Yeah, I had to sort of force my brother to come to the class reunion. And I’m glad I did, I’m glad he did, and we made it to the class reunion. Upon us, before the class reunion, we met one of the White classmates.

	W:	He was the only one there. The only White person there. Didn’t notice that, Mr.



Ogleby.



	A:	Ogleby, yes.



	L:	I’m glad that subject was brought up. John Ogleby, he was my friend and also played football on the Eastside football team.

	W:	What position did he play?



	L:	He played running back beside me.



	W:	Okay, so he was at least the number two running back. [Laughter] L:	He was the number two running back.

	W:	He was the blocking back! [Laughter]



	L:	But the day before the reunion we were riding around the neighborhood where my brother live, I got another brother, and my brother say, “John Ogleby live there.” I say, “What?” And I say, “Go!” So we drove up and blew the horn. There





he was, he seen me and it was a lot of joy, a lot of happiness. And upon talking to John Ogleby—we hugging and so forth—John Ogleby, though being Caucasian, was very, very fast. I give him a lot of credit, and he was tough. But he couldn’t outrun me, now. But he was very fast for a Caucasian. And you know, I’ll talk like this to him; he’s cool.

	W:	But who was there, and they were talking about people from Newberry High and everything. I was trying to figure out who was Newberry. I could tell he was with you, that he was from Eastside. He definitely identified with the Eastside group.

	L:	Oh, yeah. Yeah. I told him, I said, “You know about the class reunion?” He said no. I said, “John”—which was Friday, the class reunion was Saturday, next day— I said, “John, I want you to be there.” He said, “I’m going be there.” I said, I asked him again, I said, “John, I want you to be there.” He said, “Nard”—my nickname is ‘Nard—he said, “Nard, I’m going be there.” Matter of fact, when I walked in there, I was so happy, and he stood up and just hugged me. And matter of fact, he was the only Caucasian there. So you know, I was happy to see that. And that’s one of my bright, one of the moments that I had there that made me feel so good at the reunion. You know, to see John there, which was the only Caucasian there. And he was happy and he had fun. And he was relaxed.

	W:	Very relaxed. He fit right in. L:	He fit right in.

	W:	Now, let me ask you this: I asked your brother already about his highlights. You already talked about the 44-0 Bolles victory, which I will always remember for being kind of a watershed moment of unity and coming together at Eastside High





School; it’s one of the first I’ve heard. But are there any other highlights that you can think of that defined your time at Eastside High School?

	L:	Well, I’m going to say this: upon entering Eastside again, like I say, I was in the tenth grade, we was in the tenth grade, we were in the highest grade there at the time, at that particular time we had a Caucasian dean. His name was Dean Turner. At that particular time, when the school bell rang, you had to be in the class. You couldn’t be coming in the door when it was ringing, you had to be in the class. And I guess that kept the violence down and kept everybody in the class. Well, me and the quarterback walked into the class while the school bell was ringing, and we was sent to the dean’s office. At that particular time, we were at Eastside maybe a month at the time—maybe two weeks—so we still trying to mingle with Whites, understand Whites. Now, this dean is White. This dean offered me and the quarterback ten licks or ten days at home. And the quarterback’s name was Ron Renning, which his nickname was Pie. And I say, “What you say, Dean Turner?” He said, “I say ten licks.” At that particular time, they still could beat you. But ain’t no White man going beat me, is what I’m trying to say. He offered us ten days at home or ten licks. I told the dean, I said, “Dean, you ain’t going to be putting no ten licks.” And I told my friend, Pie, I said, “Pie, don’t let Dean Turner get that butt, because he ain’t getting this one!” Now, if I was at the predominant Black school, which was Lincoln High School, I had no choice but to bend over. But at Eastside, I ain’t bending over to this. And my daddy going to have my back, and so forth, and so forth. So, he asked me— that’s one of the times that I remember. You know what? I got suspended for ten





days, which was two weeks at home. I let the football team down, me and the quarterback. He was the star quarterback, and I was the star running back. And they lost both of those games. And I always look back upon that; should I have let this White dean beat me, or should I have gotten suspended and went home. And I still say today, suspended and went home.

	W:	Should he have had such an extreme punishment for that situation?



	L:	And I thought it was extreme. Ten licks? And you should have seen this board he had, this wooden board he had. It was like one of the sorority boards. And it was extreme punishment, just for walking into class while the school bell was ringing.

W:  Do you think it had something to do with your notoriety, you and the quarterback, because you all were kind of known students, and it was that time, he was trying to make a point, you know, being a White dean and you all being Black?

	L:	I think, you know, since it was an extreme punishment, I thought he was prejudiced. I thought it was bias there, I really felt that. And I know the quarterback who got suspended with me felt the same way. Why this man want to hit me ten times as you know, punishment, I thought that was extremely too much that he was asking.

	W:	I got licks in school, I’ve never got hit ten times. Maybe, like, three or four. L:	Exactly.

	A:	This is Alonzo. I feel also the discipline since integration. Our parents and the teacher had that bonding.

	W:	Oh, yeah, you knew you were going to get it. It was like family, and you got more when you got home!





	A:	Now, what has transpired with the Black deans going to beat the White kids, discipline; they didn’t wanted that. So which I feel now, we don’t have no more discipline. No more corporate punishment. It has become moved up into the region where it’s abuses now.

	W:	Well, they’ve taken it away from the teachers and from the parents, too. There’s no tools. How do you feel about that? There are some people that have the feeling that even though corporal punishment was physical punishment, that there was a discipline, a love, a connection, that you cared for the kids. It wasn’t arbitrary. But now the kids are running rampant, they’re like the little lawyers, they know nobody can do anything to them. No consequences. How do you feel about that, a consequence-free school environment? Is it a healthy environment or what about that difference, what do you think?

	A:	From my perspective—this is my chaplaincy coming out, because I was a chaplain in Department of Corrections. And my dad used to say, “If I don’t beat you, they going to beat you when they get you back there, son.” But I’ve seen where you got, when they had the corporal punishment, it kept us out of trouble. It had us to think twice, before you make that decision. You know, you had to think, “Oh, boy! What’s the consequence of this going to be? Oh, Mom! Oh, the teachers going to—oh!” So they brought the discipline. Now as my brother said earlier, kids have no control. They wear the pants down, all the loud music everywhere, drugs everywhere, all this type of thing. The prison population has become the college, the high school, and this type of thing. So that’s how I feel about that.





	W:	I just had a couple more questions for you all. I want to, do you need the young lady to come over and bring you something?

	L:	No, no.



	W:	Okay, I want to put this to both of you: I might just ask you for a definition, ask you about a circumstance or situation, and you can answer. I’ll try to get as many of these in as possible. First, what is your definition of leadership?

	L:	My definition of leadership is setting an example. And my father always in a sense said you lead by example. So like I said, by going to Eastside, I tried to lead by example by showing while I played football that no one could tackle me. And I wanted the other kids from my neighborhood to look at me and say, “I can do the same thing he did.” So I set an example at Eastside. I was the first All- State football player at Eastside. I was the first football player that went to college at Eastside, the first one to have a scholarship at Eastside. So I led by example. And I look back on that—and I’m not bragging on myself, but I look back on Lincoln High School and I see so many running backs that my father took me to as a kid, and my mother, and I seen all these running backs and my momma jumping up and down. And after segregation went to integration, I was in this generation of these backs that I seen during segregation. And I tried to keep that going. And I think today, I very seldom come into Gainesville now, but I heard that name, “’Nard, you a good football player!” You know that, that make me feel real good. As I move about the neighborhood, walking in different streets, reminiscing, and sometimes I get approached by, “Hey, you was a good football player.” So to me, that was leadership. That set an example—even though I





know it was God gifted my athletic ability, you know? But I that’s how I look at leadership.

	W:	Same question, what’s your definition of leadership?



	A:	My definition of leadership is being the model. Being that model, the model to show our young generation that, “Hey, I did it; you can do it as well.” There’s things that you can avoid, there’s people that you can avoid, with the peer pressure. There’s things that I have done. You can do it, too. You can get your education if you stay focused and do what’s right. Respect leadership, respect those who are over you, and give them the highest respect. And for me, to be the model for them. My model is that since those days, I have become a minister, I have become a chaplain, a counselor in the prison setting. A lot of those guys I was raised up with, I went to high school with, they see me as chaplain, they are amazed. [Laughter] They’re surprised. So, they see the model. So I want to remain that model, to let my light shine before my community and my family members as well as my classmates, to be the model.

	W:	I’m going to let you go first on this one, since he went first on the last one: the desegregation era, the integration of schools. Good, bad, or are you indifferent?

	A:	I’m indifferent. To me, it’s bad. And it’s sort of touching a spot. I see a disunity among our African Americans. I see more kids going to prison now, selling drugs, the Black on Black crime, the killing. So I see more of this within our society, within our community, even the place where I work at. Where it hurt us. Even where, when I go home, we call it 5th Avenue, that used to be the pride, the pride place of the African American community. Now it’s been bought by Santa Fe





Community College. [Laughter] The Black businesses, we just have a couple of Black, maybe three or four Black businesses there. It’s no more the Black pride anymore. You ride down, we just have memories. “Oh, that’s—I remember this, I remember this place, I remember that place, I remember that place.” So it destroyed the unity, it destroyed the togetherness of our community.

	W:	Same question to you, sir: desegregation, integration. Good, bad, indifferent?



	L	Good-bad. Like my brother was saying, coming up in Lincoln High School represented the family, represented the business of the Black community. Once they closed Lincoln down, the Black businesses folded down. Like he was saying, 5th Avenue was the strip, 5th Avenue was the Black business. You go down 5th Avenue today, it’s a ghost town. It’s no businesses. Maybe one or two, but it’s nothing like it was.

	W:	You can name them one hand: Safety Cab; barber shop—Earl Young barber shop; the funeral home; Duncan brothers; Ruby’s; Albert White and Isaac’s place.

	A:	Oh, man. You had Red’ Two-Spot. [Laughter]



	L:	When I was coming up, Friday, Saturday, that was the thing. You know, Blacks walking down the street partying and socializing, and all that.

	A:	You remember there was a time when you see the old men sitting down playing checkers?

	L:	See the old men sitting down playing checkers, dominos, you know? When they closed Lincoln down, the unity of the Blacks separated. I saw that a long time ago. Blacks started venturing into White neighborhoods, forgetting about the





Black neighborhood. No more unity. Player hating. I see it a whole lot. And like I say, today 5th Avenue is a ghost town. White corporations coming in, buying this and that. Like my brother said, we had the train depot right on there, and guess who owns that? Santa Fe Community College has a little school down there, you know?

	A:	Remember, Nard, when we were raised up in 12th Terrace?



	L:	Yeah, I told my brother the other day, “Yeah, we passing by the old neighborhood.” This when I was—matter of fact, I was born with a midwife, in this house on this street called 12th Terrace. It was like duplexes, and boarded duplexes. It was predominant Black. And we passed by there. And you got, it’s no longer there, they got these condominiums, high-rise condominiums. Maybe three or four stories high.

	W:	Do you know the midwife’s name?



	L:	Her name was Nurse Lindsey. She delivered everybody. I’m going go on and say, since we talking about Nurse Lindsey, I remember the only Black police. His name was Sergeant Lewis. And Sergeant Lewis demanded your respect and got your respect. When Sergeant Lewis came, Sergeant Lewis could only come into the Black community; he only could arrest Blacks, he could not arrest Whites. But when Sergeant Lewis came on 5th Avenue, or in the community, or in a house call, you were going to respect him. And he was fair. He give you chances, “Don’t do this, don’t do that, or you going in.” So you know, it’s not—

	A:	You remember the barbecue places? Mr. Y.T. Barbecue?



	L:	Oh, yeah, 5th Avenue was full of businesses, barbecue joints.





	W:	What was the name of the barbecue place? L:	Y.T. Barbecue.

	W:	And who ran that?



	L:	Mr. Y.T. I’m glad to talk about that. But like I say again, 5th Avenue is a ghost town now. No one, it’s not like it was during Lincoln High School. When they took away the school, they took away the community. No one walks—it’s not like it was. Like on a Saturday night, a Friday night, you know? You really didn’t have to have a lot of money, you put in some bubblegum in your mouth and walk down 5th Avenue, you going see friends and family, uncles or whoever, and you just had a great time. So integration, to me, was negative for the Blacks. It really was negative for the Blacks. I think the White councilors and the mayor at the time could have went another direction, did differently than what they did. Like I said again, taking Lincoln High School away really took the unity away. It really destroyed us. So, you know, this integration, always thought about it. It’s good and bad. I’m not going to say it’s all negative. It was good and bad. But I wish the Alachua city councilors or the school board councilors at that particular time could have went another way of integrating.

	W:	Was Fletcher’s still there as a business at that time?



	L:	Fletchers’ still there as a business, yeah. Fletcher’s still there. You had Wigwam Lounge; remember Wigwam? There was a liquor store on the corner then.

Wigwam Lounge. We had the Rose Theater there. Movie theater right on 5th Avenue, Rose Theater. I’m going back now, that’s when it was—

	W:	Dry cleaners?





	L:	Dry cleaners.



	W:	Lawyers?



	L:	Lawyers.



	W:	Dentists?



	L:	Photographer, the photographer. A:	The first Black doctor, Mr. Banks.

	L:	Yeah, Dr. Cosby, Dr. Banks. All that was still, all on 5th Avenue. All the businesses was on 5th Avenue. You know what? I’m glad to go back in the time, and like I said again, reminisce, especially about 5th Avenue. You had the shoeshine, Oscar Gilbert Shoe Shine. You go in there and you go and get your shoes shined. Or you leave them, come back later, your shoes still going be shined. [Laughter]

	A:	You got the snowball, remember the snowball?



	L:	Snowball, Reverend Cato. Reverend Cato, you go in there and get you a Snowball. Grape, mixed, strawberry, or pineapple. That was all on 5th Avenue. Then you had the Hanes Grocery Store. You know, you get your groceries in there and so forth. And then you had Miss Sarah across the street, that little restaurant. You had Mom’s Kitchen, Red Two Spot. And like I say, after a while, they closed Lincoln down, the unity of the Blacks here in Gainesville was shut down. 5th Avenue represented all the businesses in Gainesville. So, anyway.

	A:	Now it’s become Martin Luther King, I think it’s Martin Luther King.



	W:	That’s 441. Who were the Black leaders in town? Who were the political leaders or the business leaders?





	L:	During that particular time, during Lincoln time, the school teachers. The school teachers and principal had a lot of weight. Because many Blacks was not educated. And the school teachers at that time, your mother and your dad looked up to them because they was educated. And you had to do what they say. And at that particular time, during those particular years before integration, the school teacher was—

	A:	And the preacher.



	L:	I can’t forget about the preacher! But the school teacher, I’m starting to say, the school teachers had the pretty houses. The school teachers dressed real nice. Like I’m saying, most Black parents, or all the Black parents, looked up to the school teacher. It’s not like that today, but that’s what it was back then. And like my brother was saying earlier, the school teachers knew your parents, and your parents respected the school teachers. So therefore, you were going to respect the school teachers.

	W:	Back to my one-word or one-subject question, I’ll start with you again, Mr.



Leonard: Trayvon Martin.



	L:	Trayvon Martin case.



	W:	Starting today in Sanford, by the way.



	L:	Starting today in Sanford. I want to say this: I wasn’t there, only read bits and pieces, but it pretty much can put it together as a Black man. This Black kid was walking through the neighborhood, just coming from the store, and the White guy—who supposed to have been, I don’t know, security guard, or whatever he supposed to be in, but he was not a law enforcement. I’m going get right to the





point: he stereotyped this kid. He saw this kid as, you know, he’s stereotyping: he was Black, hood, and thought he was a threat. Maybe the threat was he fixing to do something, he fixing to break into something, one of the townhouses of that community, or the apartment of that community. And this security guard or whatever he was, it was a threat, and it was his opportunity to win. “Winning” mean that he fixing to stop a crime that was non-existent. But he was stereotyping. He confronted this kid, and the kid did not want to be bothered. And you know, I can imagine that as a parent, what this kid said, “Leave me alone, go away, I’m not bothering nobody.” He wasn’t bothering anybody. So, why was he confronted? Anyway, Martin called the police, and the police told him, “Leave him alone.” But Martin continued harassing him. And the kid, they got into a confrontation, and the kid won. Martin ended up killing him. Did he have to kill him? Did he have to shoot him like that? He murdered this young Black kid. I mean, why not shoot him in the leg? He murdered this kid. Now, he’s saying it was self-defense. But it all originated from or started from Martin’s stereotyping— Zimmerman stereotyping this guy, this Black young kid stereotyping. The kid hadn’t committed no crime, so what’s the problem? But Zimmerman harassed him. And when you harass a kid and you White and he’s Black, it’s going be a problem. And when he know he’s not doing anything. This kid felt where Martin was coming from. Because he was Black. And I’m going to sum it all up, in that it was tragedy that happened, and I wish it never would have happened. But the ugliness of racism showed its head again. And it’s another young Black man that died for no reason. And you know what really hurted me about that particular





case again is that how the rich Whites supported Martin, gave him so much money. You know, I was told over half a million dollars, quarter of a million dollars or whatever, donated to his fund. So you know, it still exists. You know, the case, they got him charged with second degree murder, but I hope he be convicted of some type of crime. Because he did commit a crime. Because like I say, I wasn’t there, but all the bits and pieces is that, why did Zimmerman harass him? Why did he approach him? I mean, he harassed him. And then he called the police department, and they told him to leave him alone. So he took the law in his own hand, and came into a confrontation with Martin, and ended up Martin got the best of him, and he shot him and killed him.

	W:	Same question: I say Trayvon Martin before, but of course it’s the George Zimmerman murder trial for killing Trayvon Martin. But in that light, with that correction, what are your thoughts?

	A:	Sort of riding on the back of my brother, Zimmerman, to me he was no police officer. He did, to me, stereotype. Zimmerman carrying a gun. Martin did not have a gun, did not have any protection. Zimmerman in a way took advantage of him. When he called a police officer and they told him to back off, he should have backed off and let the police officer handle the situation. Zimmerman did not, to me, have any good judgment on the situation; he wasn’t trained. He didn’t have the judgment to differentiate what’s right and what’s wrong in this case. He made a bad decision. He should have waited until the police officer arrived, and not take matters up on his own hands. Again, to me, racism, I do see a little racism in this, in this area. First, Martin is walking in a community, got his little hood cap





on. Why you going come to the kid? Was there any reporting said that someone at that time broke in anybody’ house? At that time, was there anybody doing any drugs, or anything like that? No, it was Zimmerman’s suspicion that this kid was trying to break into somebody’ house, or do some type of crime. No, Zimmerman made a bad decision, and to me he should be punished by the decision he made.

	W:	Next subject, Barack Obama, Michele Obama, Sasha, and Malia, the first family.



What are your thoughts?



	A:	I’m very happy. I’m glad to see this happen during my time of life. I have heard, during the school time, that we will never have a Black president. [Laughter] At Eastside and Lincoln, “We’ll never have a Black president.” But thank God. I pray for him, I pray for his family, for being that model, for taking the leadership of the first African American family, first African American president, to fill that position. I feel that there are Whites that support him, but the majority of the Whites are not supporting him. Every decision he make, they find some error. He does some error, but I think about White Americans has been presidents from the beginning to this time. And many of them made mistakes, and they just waiting for Obama to make a mistake to ridicule him, to doubt him, and say, “Well, you know we don’t need no Black quarterback!” I mean—I said “Black quarterback.” [Laughter]

	W:	But that was the first, right? [Laughter]



	A:	Yep! [Laughter] Right. So, I remember that. That sparked something, though. But anyway, president, “We don’t need no Black president.” But anyway, I tip my hat off, he’s doing a great job. He has accomplished some things that some White





president did not accomplish. And I tip my hat off for him, I pray for him, I respect him to the highest.

	W:	Do you think that his being from a biracial family and having a White mother and White grandparents, that they emphasized and raised him—and having a Black father, of course, from Kenya—but do you think that made it more likely that he would be elected? Would he have been elected if both his parents had been Black?

	A:	That’s a good question. I don’t know. But I do say Obama is a very smart man. Well-intelligent man. Maybe if he did have Black parents, both, I don’t think he probably would have had the opportunity. But with the same connections, maybe he could have. But he had different connections. His school, his college, his education, his background, all that he did, helped him get to that point. All that connection with the Whites and the Blacks helped him get to that point. So, yes and a no.

	W:	The question is Barack Obama, Michele Obama, Sasha, and Malia, the first family. What are your impressions?

	L:	You know, I cried when he was elected president. Like I say, I lived in Tampa, I cried. I was in this nightclub, and we was all outside in the parking lot. And when they announced that he won the president, a whole lot of us in that parking lot cried. You know, I never thought I’d see a Black man be the president of America. That’s one of the proudest days that I can remember recently. I’m so happy, I was full of joy. Everybody in the parking lot jumped up, they start singing, we start singing, everything. See, that’s one of the proudest moments





that I had here, one of the proudest moments, politically, that I enjoyed. And you know, I’m still happy today that America is changing. It’s changing to accept a Black man. You know I’m an electrician, and one of the contractors which is White, right before the election, and I was in the truck with him, and he looked over at me, he say, “Leonard,” he say, “Obama really not that dark.” [Laughter]

	W:	Okay that leads us to the second part I asked your brother before you got here: Obama’s history is that of a biracial family. You know, very prominent that his mother’s White, raised by White grandparents from World War II. His dad of course is Black from Kenya. Do you think that that biracialism allowed him to be elected president? Would he have been elected if both his parents had been Black, I guess, is the question I’m asking.

	L:	Like I was saying, going back to in the truck with the contractor, I’m an electrician. He came out of nowhere as he was driving, he was driving, and he said, “Leonard, Obama is really not that dark is he?” So at that particular time, the economy was bad, and I think everybody was sick of the old system, and they wanted something new. Anyway, he said, again—I guess he really wanted to vote for him. I don’t know if he did or not, but the question was asked to me by him that Obama really ain’t that dark. And I looked at him. I looked at him, and I said, “No, he’s not.” So I left it simple. I didn’t go into details. But I never forget that, you know? And I guess he voted for him, because he really wasn’t that dark. [Laughter] So I don’t know, America has really grew. But like I say again, it’s a lot of Blacks still in the projects. Meaning, they don’t say the term “ghetto” anymore, but it’s ghetto. And I just hope we continue to advance and the Blacks that is





educated and so forth—getting back to Obama, Obama was very highly educated. Obama graduated from Yale, which is a real decorative university.

	W:	I think he went to Harvard.



	L:	Harvard, okay. Harvard, which is a very academically high-standing college. So he was very—I’m proud of him, I’m proud of Obama. To me, his father came from the motherland. So I, you know, I was happy. But his mother was Caucasian, but his father came from the motherland, which was Kenya? Kenya. So, truly black African. So to me, it’s an old saying that a White man cannot make a Black baby, but a Black man can make a—.

	A:	Albino?



	L:	Yeah, anyway, my thought, I’m talking about Obama, so I’m all happy. But getting back to the point is that, you know, his complexion is light, but it doesn’t matter, his heart is Black. I was in the military and I was stationed upstate New York at Plattsburgh, New York. And see, it was very few Blacks there. Matter of fact, it was only two families that I seen in two years that I was up there. And I seen this pretty Black girl. She was gorgeous. And approacheded her, and she turned her head and walked away. And I was so hurt. But she grew up in that community, and what I’m trying to say is, she had a White heart. So your heart is you. So Obama is a Black man because why? He got a Black heart. So you know, and you ask him, he say, I’m Black. So who can question that? And so, you know, that’s one of the proudest days that I had in a long time when Obama was elected president. I’ll never forget it. And then being elected a second term, oh, that’s great, that’s very good. You know, like I said, again, that’s one of the





proudest moments of my life. And I think I can speak for other Blacks. And so he making a difference, and he’s making a difference. So you know, I think it’s good. I forget to question the other question that he asked, because, you know, Obama. But I’m very pleased, and he asked about leadership early on into this conversation. Now, by Obama being elected president is what? Leadership. So he’s setting an example for other young Blacks to follow. So I think that’s awesome, and I think that’s good.

	W:	I appreciate you gentlemen coming out to meet early on a Monday morning here at the Steak and Shake off of State Road 24. And I know you have to get to Ocala. I’m going to take this opportunity just to thank you for this opportunity to speak to you the first time. I hope we get a chance to speak again. On behalf of the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program, and our African American History Project, it’s been an honor to speak with both of you. I truly learned a lot, and just enjoyed your presence. And I just want to edify you, raise you up for being the people you have been to let me stand on your shoulders, and thank you for this opportunity to add to our oral history collection. I want to close the interview just with those thoughts and our thanks, and give you the opportunity, both of you, final privilege this will be my last time to speak. And the two of you, anything you want to talk about, something about the interview, a final thought, and when you’ve both had the opportunity to give those concluding thoughts, that’ll conclude the interview again with our thanks. Thank you very much for this interview on June the 10th, 2013.





	L:	I want to thank you for giving me the opportunity for this interview, and I wish you luck and happiness. And I hope you continue to study the Black race during the integration. And I’m just thankful and I’m pleased to meet someone who’s on this journey to recognize and understand the Black community, where we came from. And it’s very important, it’s very, very important. And I wish you many more blessings and I want to thank you.

	A:	I want to thank you, sir, on your organization and the University of Florida for your study, and your observation, and interviewing us for this project. And I want to thank you for showing care and love, someone reaching out to us to see where we are, where we have come from, what we are doing, where is our world at, and what have we accomplished, and where are we going? So I want to thank you for helping us, and anyway, bringing it up helped us. Helped us to go back to the past. And I pray that we don’t repeat it. [Laughter] I pray that we move forward, move on, and go on to be united people, to help this world to have some care, to have some people who need help so they will understand our hearts, and our culture, in a multicultural diversity society. [Laughter] So I think you all for this, me and my brother thank you all, and God bless you all.

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Richard Brust, January 14, 2016 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, April 12, 2018 Final edited by:	Ryan Morini, February 23, 2019