AAHP 661; Higgins; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 661 Barbara Lee Higgins banquet address Recorded on May 19, 2019

28 Pages



Abstract:

Keywords: [African American History; Gainesville, Florida; Barbara Lee Higgins; education]



AAHP 661

Interviewee:

Interviewer:

Date of Interview: May 19, 2019





	U1:	We would like for everyone to be seated at this time so that we can begin our program. Thank you.

	U2:	Good evening. We are privileged this evening to host the annual Barbara Lee Higgins Scholarship Program. For the first time in the history of our banquet, we were able to move our banquet to our hotel facility, and for that we say “thank you, Lord! Thank you, Lord! Thank you, Lord.” We’re going to ask now our master of ceremony, who is Reverent Dr. Freeman Gallmon who is the pastor of the Mount Moriah Missionary Baptist Church. He is well known in our community, and when I called him he graciously and readily said “Ms. White I am happy to do it.” So let’s give him a round of applause as he comes before us, thank you.

[Applause]



	G:	Thank you. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mrs.



White. Amen. Thank you so much. I just want to first give honor to our moderator and all of his staff, to Mrs. Simmons and all of the officers and members of the women’s convention. And as my granddaddy who was the pastor would say it like this “And to la-di-da-di and everybody”. [Laughter] That oughtta get everybody all right? Thank you so much, I’m so glad to be here. As Mrs. White told you, my name is Freeman Gallmon I am the pastor of Mount Moriah, and I have been that pastor for thirty-six years so, [Applause] Amen. So if I say something that offends somebody don’t worry about telling on me, amen. Ladies and gentlemen let me tell this





story, and I—my wife looking at me and that’s why it’s hard to be married to a first-grade teacher, because you have to watch what you say and… But anyway, when I was a boy in Tampa, Florida, I’m from Tampa um, the ice cream man would come in our neighborhood and he had a jingle he would play on the truck Mimics the jingle and you could hear it two blocks over. We used to run in the house and say “Momma, the ice cream man is in the neighborhood and sooner or later he’s going to be on our block, hallelujah. Now what I’m trying to say? You know it ain’t no reason for us to be jealous of anybody ‘cause if somebody is being blessed, at least we know that Jesus is in the neighborhood. Hallelujah, he’s somewhere, and he gone get to your street sooner or later. Amen, so thank you very much, and I’m not gonna prolong the program. We’re gonna have a congregational song, we’ve come this far by faith, and then I’m gonna have the introduction of scholarship applicants by Sister Rose Mills. [Singing We Have Come this Far by Faith 03:56-05:35]

	M:	Good evening ladies and gentlemen. We’re so glad that have come out with us for this very special occasion. This is the 2019 Barbara Higgins Scholarship Hour. We trust that you will enjoy. I’m going to introduce the 2019 Applicants; our first applicant is Brianna McFadden. Brianna is a member of St. John’s Missionary Baptist Church, Melrose, Florida, Reverend Alvin Oliver is the Pastor. She will graduate from Buchholz High School. Brianna plans to attend Santa Fe College in the fall to pursue a Bachelor’s degree in Health Science. She likes to write poems and short





stories and occasionally plays basketball. She also sings and likes to draw. Brianna sees herself as a nurse at Shand’s Hospital. Brianna is escorted by her parents, Mr. and Mrs. Brian and Kara McFadden.

[Applause]



	M:	Jayla Smith. Thank you. Jayla is a member of New Hope Missionary Baptist Church, Willison, Florida Reverend Charles Streeter, Pastor. She is graduating from East Side High School. In the fall, she plans to attend Gupton Jones College in Atlanta, Georgia to study Mortuary Services and receive an Associate’s degree. Jayla wants to open her own funeral home in the next few years. She enjoys hanging with her friends and family and of course, sleeping in. She is escorted by her mother, Ms. Julia Smith.

[Applause]



	M:	Antonio Turner. Antonio is a member of Johnson Chapel Baptist Church Reverend S.R Seal is Pastor. He’s an honor roll student and soon-to-be- graduate of Gainesville High School. Antonio will attend Florida State College in Jacksonville, Florida to pursue a degree in Business Management or Electrical Engineering. He begins his life as a college student this summer. He is a member of and president of the Manhood Youth Development Foundation. He enjoys playing the piano and loves playing basketball. Antonio is escorted by his mother, Ms. Ramatha Berry

[Applause]



	M:	Gabrielle Welch. Gabrielle is a member of First Morning Star Missionary Baptist Church. Reverend Jerome R. Lennon is Pastor. She will graduate





from P.K Young Developmental Research School. She will attend Tallahassee Community College in the fall to pursue an Associate of Arts degree and transfer to Florida State University where she will major in Criminal Justice and minor in African American Studies. Gabrielle plans to further her education by pursuing her dream of becoming an attorney and a civil rights activist. Gabrielle has participated in many extracurricular activities throughout her high school years. She’s been a cheerleader since age five and a varsity cheerleader since ninth grade. She has been in the performing arts program since sixth grade and women’s ensemble since ninth grade. Gabrielle has been the secretary philanthropy chair and vice president of her school’s Black Student Union. In addition, Gabrielle was selected—or elected—student government secretary in ninth grade. She has been involved in the Youth Enrichment Program of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority since seventh grade. She also participates in the NAACP. Her escorts and I quote “are my beautiful grandmothers, Mary Nobles and Florene Johnson who nurtured, prayed for, and loved me into the young lady I am today”

[Applause]



	M:	Michael Whitehead Jr. Michael is a member of Mount Moriah Baptist Church Reverend Dr. F.N Gallmon, Pastor. He will graduate from Buchholz High School and plans to attend Santa Fe College in the fall. In two years, Michael plans to transfer to the University of Florida to study Broadcast Journalism. He wants to be a sports reporter for ESPN or FS1.





Michael’s hobbies include playing and watching sports, and he likes to cook. His escorts are his parents Michael Sr. and Sylvia Whitehead.

[Applause]



	M.	Janiah Williams. Janiah is a member of New Hope Missionary Baptists Church, Willison, Florida, Reverend Charles Streeter Pastor. She will graduate from Williston High School. Her future plans include attending Santa Fe College in the fall to pursue a degree in Health Science to become a registered nurse. She plans to further her education to one day be a doctor. Janiah likes to sing and help take care of people in need. When time permits, she likes to play softball. Her escort is her mother, Ms. Maud Williams.

[Applause]



	M:	Ladies and Gentlemen, I present to you the 2019 Barbara Higgins Scholarship Applicants. Thank you.

	U:	Amen, let’s give them another hand. [Applause]

	U:	So good. We will now have Reverend Doctor Tyrone Blue to come and do our scripture. After that we will prayer and the blessings of food by Reverend Alvin Oliver.

	B:	Amen, to God be the glory for the great things that He has done. But the government has established protocol, and for our scripture read today I’ll ask if you have you would turn to the book of Proverbs chapter number four, the wisdom book. And we heard some awesome credentials for





these young ladies and young men on the podium, but I want them to take something with them, wherever they go and it’s found in the book of Proverbs beginning at verse number one of chapter four. “Hear ye children the instruction of a Father, and attend to know understanding, for I give you good doctrine forsake ye not thou my law for I was a father’s son tender and only beloved in the sight of my mother. He taught me also and said unto me, let thine heart retain my words, keep my commandments and live. Get wisdom, get understanding, forget it not. Neither decline from the words of my mouth. Forsake her not and she shall preserve thee. Love her and she shall keep thee. Wisdom is the principle thing, therefore get wisdom, and with all thy getting, get understanding. Exalt her and she shall promote thee, and she will bring thee honor when thou does embrace her. She shall give thy head an ointment of grace and a crown of glory shall she deliver unto thee.” God’s Word for God’s people, Amen.

Audience: Amen, amen.



	O:	Let us pray. Most gracious and Holy God, [Inaudible 14:31-32] once again we come before you with bowed hearts, bowed heads and humble hearts Oh, God. God we come to thank you for the many blessing that you’ve bestowed upon us oh, God. Father we come this afternoon just to say thank you, God. Thank you for these young people that you’ve allowed to be in our presence oh heavenly Father. Father we pray that you bless them, oh God, that you bless them collectively and then bless them individually of, Lord. Father we pray that as they prepare to go out into the





world oh, God that you prepare a way for them oh, God. More than anything they do and realize they need to keep their hand in Your hand oh God. If they do that then everything will be all right. Father we ask that you bless their parents oh, God, their grandparents who have invested in them and brought them thus far oh, God. Father we thank you, oh, God, and we praise You and we worship you oh God. Father we thank You for allowing us to be here, God, for this Barbara Higgins Scholarship Fund, Lord.

Continue to bless them, oh God. Continue allowing them to do great things in this community. Lord, we thank you of God and we praise You and we worship you. We ask that you bless the food prepared for us and that it be nourishing for our body, oh Father. Father bless the hands that prepared it, we as all of this in [Inaudible 15:32] in your son, Jesus’ name. In Jesus’ name we pray, Amen

Audience: Amen



	U:	Amen. Now we have my member, little Miss Kayla Mandrel. Come on up here and stand with your pastor, baby. You stand with me, amen

	KM:	Good evening. Audience: Good evening

	KM:	Welcome to the 2019 Barbara Lee Higgins Scholarship Banquet. The occasion for today’s program is to select a top scholar student. This scholarship opportunity is so awesome because Ms. Barbara Higgins was a pioneer to our community.

	G:	Amen.





	KM:	Every year, her family and the scholarship committee work hard to bring this event together. My name is Kayla Mandrel and I am last year’s recipient of the Barbara Lee Higgins Scholarship. This scholarship benefited me in so many ways starting my first year of college. It is important that we continue to raise money for this occasion because it really does make a difference in our lives as college students. To the students I want to say good luck because it is a journey—college is not easy but you guys can do it. I pray that God continues to bless you and I pray that you guys stay focused because there are a lot of distractions and a lot of peer pressure, but you guys please remain focused and this is a great opportunity and I know Barbara Higgins is very proud of you guys and thank you and welcome.

	G:	Amen! Amen! Thank you so very much, Ms. Kayla. Let me tell y’all another story about me, and it’s true. When I was in coll—when I was at the University of Florida when I was in college, no one knew of this but I was poor as could be. So I used to walked the railroad track, there was a railroad track that would go all the way down Depot to Mount Moriah. So I would—I started riding my bicycle but one day stole my bicycle, and Imma find out who stole my bicycle! Imma find ya! [Laughter] But um, anyway, Ms. Barbara Higgins’ sister used to drive the city bus. And so she saw me walking one day and she told me, she said “I know you ain’t got no money.” I said “Well, don’t tell nobody. ‘Cause you know I’m trying to play off that I got plenty money.” And she rode me on that bus for free as long I





was in college. [Applause] It’s some people will help you along the way. Amen, and I think her name was Ms. Altemy, is that right? That lady helped me, Amen. And I thank God, cause I got to ride the city bus for free. Hallelujah [Laughter] And she didn’t tell my secret, amen. Now we shall have our dance presentation Ms. Waters, come on, by our dance group. Amen.

	EW:	Good Evening. Praise God. For those who don’t know me, I am Eloise Waters not El-oh-ease but thank you. The computer always tried to change my name but anyway I say good evening and thank you for inviting us, especially Ms. Oral, we appreciate coming. Mrs. Teryll is the director of the Caring is Sharing Learning School of the Arts. She also is in charge—or the director of the Star Center as well. So we’re going to bring a little bit of everything for you in a little bit of time, and the good thing is our young people so we pray that you appreciate that since we’re already wanting to promote older young people and we thank God for this opportunity. So first, we’re going to have a song and then we’re going to have two quick numbers and we pray that you appreciate it. We don’t have all our young babies, it’s a lot of ‘em we’ve been performing already two times this week, but we are thankful for who is here and we praise God for that so we’re going to bring you a selection. Can you all clap your hands for Miss “So Unique” High, Come on up “So Unique”

[Applause]



	H:	Good afternoon, everybody.





	Audience:	Good afternoon



	H:	So I Just wanted to say before I start that I’m going to be singing this for God, and I just want to apologize for if I mess it up, I haven’t snag this song in a very long time, so I will try my best.

[Sings 20:51-24:45]



	W:		So the young people are going to do two selections. They’re going to do “Hall of Fame Champion” and we hope that all our people up here will make it in the Hall of Fame being somebody and successful in life. And the second song is gonna be Osi [Inaudible 25:11] It’s an African kind of jazz to it. So we want you to enjoy the young people. Young people give me first position in ballet.

	YP:	First position of ballet. W:	Give me second position. YP:	Second position of ballet. W:	Give me third position.

YP: Third position of ballet. W: Give me fourth position. YP: Fourth position of ballet. W:  Give me fifth position.

	YP:	Fifth position of ballet. W:	Give me second position. YP:	Second position of ballet. W:	Give me first position.





	YP:	First position of ballet. W:	Plie.

	YP:	Plie.



	W:	Relevant. Shake it off. All right, let’s get in position for “Hall of Fame”. Just a word, I thank God for this opportunity, Ms. Terryl let me work with the dancers I’m an old soul don’t let the small frame fool you. I’m a retired teacher of thirty-something-something years, okay. But I thank God that I can still kick a knee. [Applause/Laughter] All right young people, you ready?

[Music from 26:28-27:26]



	W:	Can you all say Osi [inaudible] All men, all creatures, everybody praise the Lord. Amen, Osi[Inaudible] we are ready.

[Music from 27:41-28:23]



	W:	[Applause] First grade, second grade, and third grade right here. Thank you for having us.

[Music 28:37-28:55]



	G:	Amen, thank you Ms. Eloise, thank you so much. Amen. If I can get this doggone— We’re going to have greetings at this time and the first person I’d like to call up us Mr. Jesse Irby, who is the clerk of the court and after Mr. Irby Commissioner Chuck Chestnut will talk, amen. [Applause]

	JI:	Well good evening, good evening. I tell you, it’s a little hard in the placement of the program to have to follow such beautiful performances, but I do bring you greetings here this evening on such a wonderful





occasion I am honored to be here. Mrs. Higgins’ contributions as a civil rights leader and a leader within this community are well known, but for me and my family she was so much more, she truly was family. In matter of fact in Alachua General Hospital, she was one of the—actually the first people that held me within this world. It’s true, yes. So I have to admit though when I was a young man it did kind of confuse me a little bit as to why my father kept calling Mrs. Higgins, “Mama”. It didn’t make any sense, I knew who my grandmother was but Ms. Higgins was “Mama” the whole time. It’s great to see her legacy here doing so well and so strong, I congratulate each of the impressive applicants, and I wish you the absolute best in all of your future endeavors.

[Applause]



	CC:	Good afternoon. It is indeed an honor and a pleasure to be here this afternoon. On behalf of the 266,944 citizens of Alachua County, and the board of County Commissioners, I greet you and I welcome you. The County Commission had an opportunity back in February to recognize Mrs. Higgins for Black History Month. For the whole month of February she was on our webpage, and it talked about her history as a civil rights leader here locally in Alachua County, and we also did a proclamation on February the second, declaring Barbara L. Higgins Day in Alachua County. I’d like to say to the applicants you have a real legacy to follow in terms of Mrs. Higgins and I want to say congratulations to you all and I wish you the best for your future endeavors. Thank you.





[Applause]



	G:	Now we’ll have the good part, Ms. Orah White is coming up with door prizes. How many people wanna take home something? [Crowd member shouts excitedly] I know that’s right! Come on Ms. White. Amen, I was trying not to hold everybody late, so we’re gonna get rolling so us can get home to us house. Amen. Let me get out of here, I’m going home. I’m gonna ask Ms. Stemma Jake Mosely would you join me here at the roster?

	M:	Good evening. It is my privilege at this time to present our scholarship applicants their awards. We have book scholarships for Sister Breanna McFadden [Applause] Ms. Simmons do you feel like standing up now? Ms. Simmons is our president, but she is—come on darling. She’s having some health problems, we’re trying to save her but we’re going to at least let her come here. Okay. Thank you, and your letter tells you what to do. Sister Gabrielle Welch. [Applause] Congratulations, all right. You get a hug from Ms. Simmons. Sister Janiah Williams [Applause] Congratulations and all of your instructions are in the letter.

	W:	Thank you



	M:	Our second runner-up Sister Jayla Smith. [Applause] Congratulations.



Follow your directions in the envelope.



	S:	Thank you. Yes ma’am.



	M:	First Runner-up Brother Antonio Turner [Applause] I’mma give you a hug.



Follow your instructions in the envelope





	T:	Thank you.



	M:	And the 2019 winner of the Barbara Higgins Scholarship, Brother Michael Whitehead [Applause]. Congratulations. Get a hug from Ms. Simmons

	W:	Thank you, thank you. Thank you, ma’am.



	M:	Each of these students had to write an essay, and it was scored and the winner reads the essay. At this time, Mr. Whitehead will read his essay. Congratulations to all of you. We are praying that you continue to keep God first in your life, and let us know what is going on with you. As you look into your programs you can see students who have been helped down through the years from your participation and purchasing of tickets in previous years for the ones who have been here in our area. Thank you so much. And now, Mr. Whitehead. Are there any previous scholarship winners present here this evening? [Applause] All right that’s one, from last year. Ms. Scott. Where did she go? She was sitting in the back. Ok, Ms. Simmons went around and recognized Ms. Scott.

	W:	Wow. This is a vey big accomplishment. I’m not gonna lie, I wasn’t expecting to win, there’s a lot of really good applications—or applicants. I just want to thank y’all for choosing me. This is a big honor for me, to help me through school, so thank you. I’m going to read the essay now: Mrs.

Barbara Higgins did many things throughout her life and had many accomplishments. What she did will leave a long-lasting legacy that will motivate many people including myself. According to an article published by WCJB News, Mrs. Barbara Higgins was the first Black professional to





work in the Alachua County Courthouse. She also served as secretary for the Alachua County Branch for the NAACP and was a deputy supervisor of elections. Achieving these types of tasks in the time period that she did as a Black woman was remarkable. Having someone that is African- American that is from the same area as I am is very motivating. As I continue on with my higher education, I can look at Mrs. Higgins’ accomplishments as something to aim for in terms of impact. After I complete my college career, I want to come back to Gainesville and have a positive effect on my community as Mrs. Higgins did. As a human rights activist, Mrs. Higgins wanted equal rights for everybody, regardless of race or gender. Also wanted to give equal opportunities to children regardless of race, income, and what part of town they live in. One of the many things that I want to do for the area is create more affordable afterschool activities for the youth. [Applause] I want to help enrich the lives of kids who don’t necessarily have the funds to do certain things. I want to create a program that gives kids sports teams, tutoring, and provides more opportunities to help kids travel. These types of activities hopefully would lower crime rates among teens in the area and provide many activities. I was a kid that was involved in these types of programs, so I know the impact that good, adult leadership and care has on young developing minds. I was also a volunteer at the Boys and Girls Club with young kids so I know firsthand what it can do. This is what Mrs. Higgins was all about in terms of helping the youth. Mrs. Higgins had many jobs





throughout her life, she never got satisfied with what she had done. As a maturing young man trying to find my way through the world, I can try to aim to have the same type of work ethic—oh, sorry—regardless of what I do or what I am able to achieve I should never become satisfied. I should always try to remember that there is always something more I can do, and that I can continue to help others as well as improving myself. Mrs.

Higgins broke the barrier for African-American women working professionally in the Alachua County Courthouse. Doing something like this when she did it could not have been easy. Many people tried to deter her from her path, as it had never been done before. Despite that, she believed in herself and did something that would carve a path for many other Black women who would want to work within the Alachua County Courthouse system. When times get hard and people are telling me that I should quit, or I’ll never be able to do this and that, I can think of Mrs.

Higgins during a time—during a much tougher time for African-Americans. Barbara Higgins was a great woman that had many accomplishments.

She made a way for others during a time that it seemed impossible. She lived an outstanding life that will and does leave a great legacy. She’ll be seen as a source of inspiration by myself and many other young people.

[Applause]



	G:	Amen, this is my member! Amen, thank you, sir. W:	Thank you.





	G:	Amen, he is my member. Did y’all get him a check or something? Did y’all get a check? We gone get that thing cashed tonight, all right? [Laughter] Thank you so much. Next on the program is Ms. Betty Shepard. Amen, thank you.

[Applause]



	S:	Tonight we have the honor of being here at the Wyndam Hotel. But when I was president and we were having the banquets it will either be at our center or someone’s church. And of course during that time we had somebody so special who would do all of our catering not only for the banquet, but for our meals as we were out through the center and tonight it is giving me a great honor to have the opportunity to present a trophy to the lady who did all these things, all these years, and tonight she can come and sit and enjoy her meal without doing anything. Ms. Ronitah Moss! [Applause] Come on down Ms. Moss!

[Applause]



	M:	That is so precious.



	S:	Sister Ronitah Moss, for many years of dedicated service, this is May 19, 19-2019, Sister Gloria Simmons, President. [Applause]

	M:	Thank you. [Applause]



	U:	Do you want to take a picture with this? S:	Where is the photographer? Come on. M:	[Inaudible 44:00] [Laughter]





	M:	I give thanks to every one of you. I give thanks to every one of you. You all have been so grateful to me, and God has blessed me for forty-something years to be able to do catering, and I have enjoyed it. Getting a little slow now, the doctor told me, said I have carpal tunnel in the hand. My son told me, he say “Momma, it’s from cutting chicken, baking cakes, all those cakes you baked and all that chicken you cut, but y’all pray for me, that I’ll continue. If nothing happen, I’ll see you all on Wednesday. Thank you very much!

[Applause]



	G:	Mrs. White are we just about through? All right let me get my glasses, we’re going to go. Now I would like to bring up Sister Yvonne Higgins Parham and Ms. Higgins would you bring up Mr.—Mr. McDowell with you, and the reason I’m doing that is, that’s her husband. Amen

	HP:	Good evening. Holy, Holy, Holy, Lord God Almighty, which was, which is, which is to come. Thou art worthy, Oh Lord, to receive glory, honor, and power for thine has created all things for thy pleasure, they are and were created. On behalf of my mother, Mrs. Barbara Higgins, I want to say thank you for coming to show me and all the rest of you that you still remember. And I would like to ask those who knew her, would you stand so we can see you? Those who knew her personally? Praise God, let’s give them a hand! Amen! [Applause]. You know, it’s wonderful to see all of you and then I’d like for my family to stand. Where is my family? Besides





Orah, you’ve done a great job! Albert, and Janice! Thank you for being here always. So my mother dies twenty-five years ago this April. And even though it seems forever to me, I really want you to know that this event has stuck with me over the years. It her funeral it was Mrs. Shumpert who was directed by Mrs. Sarah Rice, the president of the women and my mother was corresponding Secretary for the State, and she said “The way we can remember Barbara and all the things she did was to recognize her love for education and youth. So I want you, Jerusalem District to have an annual banquet.” And because Mother passed twenty-five years ago, this is the twenty-fourth scholarship dinner, isn’t that something?! Twenty-four years that you all have been doing this. I know you just saw Ms.

Shumpert, but there are so many others that were involved. There was Letty Anderson—where’s Letty? Would you stand Letty? And Letty who else was involved? [Inaudible 49:04] Are you saying the same committee is still working? Well let’s just give them a hand! Amen! Well come on committee! [Applause] I’m not going to belabor this very long, but I have a message for the graduates and all young people under sixty-five. What’s in your house? This made me think of that, Reverend Gallmon has—Dr. Gallmon has mentioned this a couple of times. He talked about my aunt, and what happened on the bus and just the idea that creativity brings about a lot of things. I am reminded of Charles Chestnut and he is with us tonight, would you stand please? [Applause] On the day that my mother passed, I called—well, I don’t know if I called you or not but I do know this,





when I spoke with you, you asked me “Well what time are you coming back from Jacksonville” and I said “Well probably”—this was 9:45 when my mother passed, I always think about it because of Sunday School and she was always there and she was in Jacksonville at a state convention and could not give her message on that Wednesday. I did not find out until Friday that mother had been really sick during the whole week, but just the idea that she could not give that message that meant a lot to her. And when I called Charles—all my family came up, the same ones that stood up—they were there in Jacksonville at Shand’s Hospital. Charles asked me—Mr. Chestnut—he said “What time are you going back?” And I said ”Well probably, I hope they let me stay and just be with Mother for a while, but probably two o’clock.” And I said “Why did you ask?” and he said, “Because I don’t want to pass you on the way.” Ain’t that something! I am just amazed at how my family of people—I’m talking about all of you—and those in Gainesville have just been the best people in the whole wide world. You are good people, no matter what you might think of yourself, I think you are superb and I just praise God for you tonight and I pray for you most every night. And to you all, creativity. That was creativity, acting like he did, walking to his bicycle he said gave out on him, that’s what he said. But then he got a ride! That was creative wasn’t it? You’ve got to do the same thing because you are leaving home, so you can call a whole lot for a while, but then you’ve got to stop and start thinking, what do I need to do next. If I can leave you anything, just remember that God has been with





you even before you were born. He was with you all growing up, He helped your parents to take care of you, and when He left to go back to heaven he said he would send the Holy Spirit, and he is here! And wisdom is a female, so we got her and we got him. Praise God, thank you.

[Applause]



	G:	Give an honor to God. Pastor Sears, President Simmons, and to the Jerusalem women, this has been a wonderful affair. Give yourself, give everybody applause again please. [Applause] This has just been great. We’ve been coming for several years, and this is the best of all, not to take anything away from those who have labored over the years, but this is great and we certainly appreciate that. And to the students, we are certainly proud of you all. We have a small token for you, but before I give you the token I want you to take one thing with you, take God with you.

Take God with you, that’s the number 1 thing. Take God with you. The wisdom, knowledge, and understanding, take that with you also. And if you have those things, you will certainly be successful. One of the things I would like to make sure you understand is that we are with you. We are with you, and you can ask Kayla, stand up Kayla. This is an example, we have followed Kayla ever since she left, ever since she was selected we have followed her and we will do the same for you. We want to make sure you succeed, okay? Many of us know coll—we have connections at colleges, okay? Many of us, Mr. White and others in here have connections. And if we don’t have connections we will pick up—I will pick





up the phone and call that college, okay. We want you to succeed, keep that in mind. Before we leave we are going to get your name, your mother’s name and everything else but right now we want to give you a little token to say how much we appreciate you all taking twelve years of your life and getting ready to go on there to that next level. It’s not going to be easy but if God is with you, and He’s going to be with you, you will succeed. Take it from me, I went through a war, and God brought me back. So certainly, He can do things for you. At this time we would like to ask each one of you to come down as we call your name and we have a small token for you, okay? Let’s have you read them off.

	HP:	Okay. [Laughter]



	M:	My eyes is a little bit bad at times, so



	HP:	Well we’ll start with Breanna. Breanna McFadden. M:	Just give them to me and I’ll pass them out.

	HP:	Now that’s wonderful, you’re being so creative.



	M:	Congratulations, hold on. We have another token for you. This, you will remember Ms. Higgins by, this is a coin, okay, with Ms. Higgins face on it. Take this with you. Congratulations again.

	HP:	Ms. Jayla Smith.



	G:	Jayla, I’ve got you. Give me the money, and I’ll take it. [Laughter] U:	Preachers always want the money

	HP:	And they take good care of him too, at Mount Moriah.





	G:	By the way we are from Tampa, also. We pretty well know about the area down there.

	HP:	You’re a home boy? G:	Yeah [Laughter]

	HP:	Antonio Turner. [Applause] [Inaudible 56:29-:56:44] Gabrielle Welch [Applause] Janiah Williams. [Applause] and Michael Whitehead Jr [Applause]

	G:	Again, we appreciate you all and we’re going to be looking forward to making sure that you succeed in life. One of the last things I’d like to leave with you, on June the seventh, the Barbara Higgins Park, I don’t know if some of you probably don’t know but there is a Barbara Higgins Park okay. On June the seventh, Mr. Cory---Cory stand up please. June the eighth? June the seventh, Cory is from the neighborhood office and he volunteered a crew along with Lowe’s along with Commissioner Simmons and others I believe what church— Spring Hill. In Spring Hill they will all be involved in getting the park ready for the next day which will be June the eighth. On that particular day the park will be rededicated, so we would invite you all to come out and have some hot dogs and hamburgers and to receive the fellowship of Barbara Higgins at the park. We invite you young folks to come out there too.

	U:	And what time is that? M:	What time is it Cory?





	C:	All right so June seventh, thank you guys for having me, congratulations to the recipients. Thank you to the Barbara Higgins family for having us, we have identified Barbara Higgins Park over on [Inaudible 58:47] street. And we’re going to be doing a park rededication on June eighth, it will be from ten until two. Free food for everyone, the seventh is a volunteer opportunity. [Inaudible59:00-59:02] We’re going to go and renovate the park, put in new equipment, clean it up a little bit. We would love to have all of you participate. June seventh it will be from eight ‘till about one. Mr.

McDowell has stated, there are a number of community partners. Actually, community bank of Trust wants to sponsor a food truck on the seventh, so all the volunteers will be fed. Spring Hill Missionary Baptist Church is going to sponsor the food on Saturday, purchasing a ticket for everyone. We would love to have your participation. You can reach out to myself or Michelle Clark from the City of Gainesville Parks and Recreations. We look forward to having a great time. [Applause]

	M:	One last thing we would like to let you know about. Barbara Higgins’ name is going to stay out there as long as I live, okay. In August we are going to have a golf tournament for Barbara Higgins and the gentleman who is heading that up from the Housing Authority is not here right now, but you will hear more about that later on so we’re gonna keep Barbara Higgins out there and we’re gonna keep the scholarship fund situation out there and you’ll hear more about it later on. God Bless you all.

[Applause] [Inaudible 1:00:17]





	G:	I’mma show you how God works. Twenty-five years ago, Ms. Yvonne, the name of the Hospital was University Medical Center, and I was the Chaplain at that hospital. I don’t know whether you remember but I went in and sat with her day after day. And you had music playing for her in her ear.

	KP:	Andre Crouch.



	G:	And I want to thank you for how kind you were, and that was twenty-fiver years ago.

	KP:	I am so glad they had you, because you have just been a history person for us tonight and I appreciate that. And I want to ask Veronica if she would stand. She and her mother had been in south Florida, and she was coming up to the hospital inn Jacksonville to visit with Mother because they were very close also. Veronica said when she got there, she asked the nurse “Where’s Mrs. Higgins room?” and the nurse told her “Check with her family.” She knew then that it was not good. In was 9:45. Mother we love you. [Applause]

	G:	Amen. And thank you Ms. Yvonne, thank you! I know you don’t remember me, but twenty-five years ago I was there. I didn’t have all this gray hair, and I used to be a good looking man, oh yes I was y’all! Yes I was! But it’s twenty-five years. All right. [Laughter] Our very fine moderator is here, my friend, and I just love him. Moderator, would you just come up please, sir. Who am I doing? Ms. Letty Anderson, yeah! Ms. Letty, come on. Amen. Is she going to say something? Ms. Letty are you going to say something? I





want to thank you, when your pastor and first lady lived, I ate a lot of meals at your house. It’s amazing how they ain’t here no more and I ain’t eating no more [Laugher]. Might be coincidental.

	A:	Good evening. I know the time has been well spent, so I’m not going to take up a whole lot of time because a lot has been said, but I truly want to thank each and every one of you for coming out tonight, we’re moving up so this is our moving up day. Because we come from the center here, and we have more people than we’ve ever had at the Barbara Higgins Scholarship so that’s a blessing. So truly we thank each and every one of you all for coming and being with us tonight. Is my committee still here?

The Barbara Higgins Scholarship Committee, I would like to thank them because we have been truly working very hard to get this set up for this time. Under the leadership of our new president, because this was her vision, and we were trying to carry it out for her. So thank each and every one of you for coming and being with us tonight, and we will see you back here next year. God bless.

[Applause]



	M:	Y’all see how fast I’m moving? [Laugher] I’m moving so fast because Pastor Gallmon is ready to go. Nevertheless we thank God for such a wonderful experience, certainly to our president our chiefdom, Sister Simmons, what a wonderful, wonderful event. To the entire committee what a wonderful job you have done. To all of the churches all of the participants and certainly to our honorees we thank God for you and Mrs.





Higgins family, her daughter and her husband Mac. We thank God for you and for you all continuing such a wonderful, wonderful experience here at the hotel. Certainly Ms. Higgins is deserving of all that is happening and I pray to God that we will continue this legacy of having this event. May God bless you, may He keep, and keep your hands in God’s hands.

Remember, remember, remember, the folk at church heard it today. God is still at work. May God bless you. [Applause] I’ve got to dismiss y’all?

That’s the presider’s job. All hearts are clear?



Audience: Yes! We’re ready, we’re ready.



	G:	Father we thank you, for such a wonderful, wonderful spirit filled day. We thank you oh God for the life of Mrs. Higgins, we thank you God for the Jerusalem association and our women’s department for spearheading this event. Father we thank you for all those who came out tonight to witness such a wonderful occasion. Now God we ask that you would give us travelling grace to our various destinations. When we lie down tonight we pray God that you would station your guardian angels by our bedsides.

And Lord if it by thy Holy will, when we rise on tomorrow, we pray that your divine grace would hover over us while we go to work, school or at play.

Bless us and keep us is our prayer, for it is in Jesus’ name we pray. Now may the grace of God and the love of God with the sweet communion of his holy spirit rest, rule and abide with us now and forever, and everybody said. Amen.

[End of interview]











	Transcribed by:	Donovan Carter, September 9, 2021 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, September 10, 2021 Final edited by:	Sandra Romero, September 14, 2021