AAHP 063; Antone; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 063 Alicia Antone

African American History Project (AAHP) Interview conducted by Ediz Andiroglu on June 16, 2009

27 minutes | 17 pages



Abstract: Alicia Antone was born in Providence, Rhode Island. She describes her family life and the study habits her older sister instilled in her, and the effect that family trips had on her in terms of appreciating cultural diversity. She also describes the path that led her from initially pursuing veterinary science to eventually moving into acquiring masters degrees in library science and public administration. Ms. Antone describes some of the fundraising and event planning activities that she undertook as part of her work.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Rhode Island; Archiving]













































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 063

Interviewee: Alicia Antone Interviewer: Ediz Andiroglu Date: June 16, 2009



	EA:	—let me begin by first getting your consent: you don’t mind that we are recording the interview.

	AA:	That’s okay. That’s fine, thank you.



	EA:	So, can you begin stating your full name? AA:	Alicia Antone.

	EA:	Okay. And can you tell us where you were born?



	AA:	Sure, I was born, actually, in Providence, Rhode Island. EA:	And did you live there all your life, or—?

	AA:	I did, I lived there actually most of my life, up until about, I guess, four years ago. That would be four years now that I’ve been in Florida; had an opportunity to do some traveling to different places in the U.S., but that was always home for me. So, it was kind of a leap of faith to come and take a job in South Florida, and then ultimately end up here at the University of Florida.

	EA:	Were your entire family from there? Like, your parents?



	AA:	Yes. Originally, my parents—my mother, anyway—was from North Carolina, Greensborough. Not sure of how the story got together with her and my dad. She was killed when I was six years old by a drunk driver, so I never really got to know her. But through similar to what you’re doing now, talking to other people, getting their oral histories in terms of how they knew her, that’s how I begin to put her life together. Because that whole experience was a tremendous void for me for a very long time, and in order to move forward, I had to go back. So, I was able to meet and greet some of her colleagues that she worked with, some of our





neighbors, and of course some of our family members to get an idea of who she was. I knew she was very smart, because she was a scholar. And other than that, I didn’t know her favorite color, I didn’t know what flowers she liked. But from what I understand, I am her imprint. So, people tell me that I’m just like her.

	EA:	That’s amazing.



	AA:	Yeah, it really is. I enjoy people and she did, and I enjoy community, and I enjoy learning, and also giving back. I do a lot of volunteer work, trying to mentor young people. And of course, getting involved with church groups and so forth.

	EA:	Were your grandparents around—did they give you any insight? AA:	They died actually when I was— before I was born.

	EA:	Right, okay.



	AA:	So I did not know my grandmother. I knew that she had melanoma very bad. She was very, very fair. And she died when—before I was born. So I didn’t get to know her.

	EA:	So, did you raise yourself? Did you have siblings?



	AA:	Actually, my oldest sister raised me. And let me back up a little bit, because actually my grandfather, his name was Andrew Carter. He was a, I guess you could say conduit for us, in terms of being that saving grace. He used to come and pick us up on the weekends and take us different places; apple picking, to church, or whatever. I was raised by my older sister. Her name is Ruthena Hassett. She actually was twenty-one at the time that my mother had passed. And by the grace of God, she took the initiative to make sure that we all stayed together. Because I’m the youngest of seven. She was the oldest. And she had





just graduated from college, and was off to California to take a job. And this tragedy happened, and she was very, very—how can I say? Adamant about us staying together, because that’s what my mother would’ve wanted. We literally were going to become wards of the state, or go to different family members.

	EA:	They had seven children, that’s a lot. AA:	Yeah.

	EA:	So you guys all stayed together, then?



	AA:	We all stayed together. When the boys were old enough, they went off to the Service, and my older sister pretty much was really like my mother, except for she wasn’t; she wouldn’t even allow us to call her that, even by mistake. She would make sure that we remembered who our mother was. But anyway, in a nutshell, that’s pretty much my childhood. Did a lot of learning, reading. [Laughter] I’m basically thinking why I became a librarian; my sister, who is a year apart from me, she ended up being a teacher, who is now a principal in Columbus, Georgia.

	EA:	Oh, wow. AA:	Yeah.

	EA:	So, do you guys all share similar interests, or—?



	AA:	We do, similar interests in terms of getting together. We all love to get together now that we’re so spread out: me being in Florida, my sister in Georgia; I have another sister who moved to Massachusetts. We typically won’t get together now, since I moved and she moved—maybe once a year. But before, it was





every weekend. We would make sure we got together, or talked, particularly around the holidays.

	EA:	Yeah, that’s really amazing. Because I have three siblings, and I know what a difference that makes to have that kind of support network.

	AA:	Yes, it really does. Mmhm.



	EA:	Do you think your eldest sister instilled some of the like lessons that your, you know—

	AA:	Definitely. Very, very much so. From what I can gather, my mother was very strict in terms of making sure that studies was first before play or anything else. And she really instilled that within us; very much so, to the point where I used to get teased about it as a kid in school. [Laughter] Because I would always be studying or trying to get my homework done, and everyone else was out playing or running around, and I used to get called a nerd and all those names back then.

They don’t call them geeks, but they used to call you a nerd.



	EA:	Was your mom actively involved in the community and things like that?



	AA:	Very much so, mmhm. Actually, there’s a collection in her memory, I think I was sharing that with you all, a collection in Black culture at the Providence Public Library entitled the Edna Frazier African American Memorial Collection. She touched a lot of people’s hearts, if you will. And through that came an anonymous bequest, where someone had wanted that collection to initiate or start. She was a book collector herself, and loved to read, loved to learn. So that, to me, was a perfect way to memorialize her, because it’s something that will go on for generations and generations.





	EA:	And within that collection, what kind of materials are there?



AA:  All kinds: it’s fiction, non-fiction, books for children, picture books; it just goes on. All the interdisciplinary, if you will, subjects relating to African American literature and culture. So it’s very, very diverse.

	EA:	And I remember you saying yesterday that’s kind of what spearheading your interest in special collections and things of that nature.

	AA:	It did. It did, and I didn’t realize it at the time. Because my sister that raised me, my sister Ruth—we used to call her Rudy, that’s her nickname—she was a collector. And when I say that—every time we went and visited another state, or a museum, she would make sure—for instance, dolls. Every time we went to visit Connecticut, or we went to a museum in New York, we would get a doll from that particular experience; whether if it was, we were visiting a Native American reservation, we would get a doll from that from that particular culture. And from that, you learn a lot about people, and how they dressed. So, that really got me interested in wanting to figure out or find out who people are, and where they come from. Sometimes we separate ourselves—not intentionally; sometimes it is, but most of the time it’s not—and we put up barriers where we don’t know other cultures or other peoples. So, it’s a good opportunity to learn. And then of course, meet someone from that culture.

	EA:	Right. So from a young age, then, you had that interest.



	AA:	Definitely. She used to take us to—initially, I thought it was boring. [Laughter] Really. I mean, you know, you’re six or seven years old, and you’re going to the Boston Museum, or someplace in New York. But I think because of that





experience, it instilled a real value for the arts. Definitely for the arts. And the experience of making sure that history stays alive. And I guess as I got older, I used to want to go—we would look in the paper to see what was in the surrounding communities, or something might be playing either in Boston or New York, and we would just take a road trip. She’d get us all in the car, and we would just go.

	EA:	Wow, that’s amazing. What did you study in school, like university level?



	AA:	Initially, I studied Vet Med, Veterinary Medicine. That was my goal, I always wanted to be a veterinarian. I was the kid that brought home all kinds of animals, or wanted to have these unusual pets—which was always a no, because my sister didn’t really care for live animals. [Laughter] Anyway. She didn’t. So anyway, but she did allow me to have a dog. So that dog was literally my best friend. But I realized very early on that that wasn’t for me, because you literally had to dissect a dead animal and then reconstruct it—its bone structure and all of that. It just—even the needles, when you would have to give them an injection in their vein; if you don’t find it, I mean that’s just as painful as you and I taking a needle and getting blood extracted. I just, it’s just not for me. And I pondered for a little bit of a while, I think it was a semester that I had taken off. And then that’s when—I won’t say I found myself, but she literally made me think, “What is it that you think you’re good at?” And I thought about it and thought about it, and, like, “Well, I’m kind of good at managing things, you know? I keep things together.” So anyway, needless to say, I went on to Johnson and Wales University, their business school, and got an undergrad or two undergraduates: one an associate





of science in Business, and a bachelor’s in Management, and worked for a retail corporation for almost five years. And back in the day, to be a manager at the age I was—because I was very, very young at the time, and just got out of college and was able to get a job as a manager for a store for a Fortune 500 company; that was considered pretty big. And the people that worked for me were older than I was, and I was younger than them, so. But I think they knew that I knew what I was doing, and were very supportive of that. But after a while, I thought, “I don’t think I want to work nights, and holidays, and weekends all the time.” Because in retail, that’s what you do. And I decided that I was going to go back to school, because I found myself at the public library at least three or four times a week. And because I literally ate books up. And there was a position that opened up at the library, believe it or not, and I just kind of walked away from that corporate atmosphere, which was very stressful, very competitive—very, very much competitive. And then, of course you had goals that you had to meet, and every time I met a million dollar goal, it would be one point five million as your next year’s goal, and then it kept getting higher and higher, and I was pretty much frustrated. Because I realized very quickly that the store I was managing was literally carrying the district to meet the district’s goals, which was a lot of pressure to put on someone. Because literally, you were selling those clothes off of the rack, it was specialty, women’s specialty store. But then I thought, “I don’t want to do this forever. There’s got to be something else that I like or love.” And I ended up getting the job at the public library. Yeah! [Laughter] I actually started out as a library aid, which is basically a clerk that would check books in and out.





And not soon after I worked there, I get to be very friendly with the librarians because they just impressed me that they liked their job. I mean, every day they came in, and they were just like, “Okay, open the doors; let’s go!” And that was very inviting to me. Because I’d always had a job where people were, like, waiting in the parking lot, like “Okay, are we ready?” It was a little different, because the approach was very different. But they actually told me that I should become a librarian. And I was like, “No, I’m done with school. I already have two degrees. I don’t want to do any more.” And they convinced me to take at least one class, which I did. And I loved it. I matriculated the following semester. My director at that time, her name was Roberta Carnes—she since retired—had put me in charge of one of the branches. She took me, I was in the children’s area, and had liked it there because I loved working with the young people, and she moved me out of that position and put me into an acting branch manager position. But when she called me in her office and she told me what she was going to do, most people would jump up and down and say, “Oh my God, this is great!” I pretty much told her that my studies were more important to me right now, and that this position hopefully wouldn’t interfere with that. “I’m going to give you the best that I can, but I want us to be able to somehow mutually have both goals reached, where you could help me; there’s times I’m going to need to leave early. Of course I would work later,” or, the hours that you put in were always above and beyond in terms of just, the library was open, and you had to cover those hours. And she agreed. She was very surprised, but she agreed. But anyway, they were very, very supportive of my studies. I actually entered into a





double master’s degree program, where I have a Masters in Library and Information Science and a Master’s in Public Administration. So, very quickly, I moved from being a manager into library administration, and have since then been able to go into a transition, into a new area, which is the fundraising and development area that I’m in now. And have one more class to finish before becoming a certified fundraising manager, or CFM they call it. And then will go on to pursue a degree in philanthropy, because I believe in libraries, I believe in people, and it just somehow seems to be a good fit.

	EA:	So a lifelong scholar, then. [Laughter] AA:	I guess so, yeah! Yeah, it’s true!

	EA:	No, that’s inspiring.



	AA:	Yeah. So, that’s basically it in a nutshell. I have a wonderful husband, his name is Robert. And we’ve been married for eighteen years.

	EA:	Wow, congratulations! Yeah.



	AA:	Thank you. We had our anniversary May 18th, I guess about a month ago. It will be a month this week. So he has been right there with me, holding me up and actually helping me along the way. So, I’m thankful for him.

	EA:	Where did you meet him? AA:	Actually, back home.

	EA:	Really?



	AA:	This sounds really weird, but he lived across the street from me. EA:	Oh! [Laughter] That’s adorable! how old were you?





	AA:	Oh, I used to, believe it or not—he’s a little older then I am. Well, eleven years older than I am. And at the time, he was just going off to this—I shouldn’t say “just,” but he had moved out, and then went off to the Service, and his younger brother’s used to walk me home from school. And again, I was kind of the geek, and his brothers played football. Particularly one, Scott; he was a bigtime football player. So all the girls used to think like, “What, is he walking that goofy girl with the glasses, carrying her books?” And you know, and they used to come up to me—because they used to be mean to before—but then they would come up to me and say, you know, “Can you tell Scott that I like him?” Or “Can you—can I come over to your house?” Or whatever. And I’m like, “Well before, nobody wanted anything to do with me, but now it’s like, okay.” But anyway, that’s basically how we met. And our families were friends. And then, when he came back from the Service, I think I saw him differently. And by then I was grown up, and he saw me a little differently. And time passed, and then one day we went on a date, and the rest is history.

	EA:	Oh, wow! It’s romantic.



	AA:	Not really; it’s kind of boring! [Laughter] EA:	No, it’s romantic. It’s cute.

	AA:	I don’t tell many people that story, but that’s the way it happened. EA:	And you guys moved here together, then, from Rhode Island?

	AA:	Yes. Yes. Actually, it was another—I guess it was a leap of faith, because I had just finished my master’s, a dual master’s program, and very quickly moved from manager into library administration as an assistant director. And knew that it was





going to take a while for me to get into a directorate position. First of all, Rhode Island is very, very small. Secondly, people tend to get into those positions and they stay there for twenty, thirty years. And I knew that I had all of these skills that were just, I kind of refer to it like a tool box; you have all of these tools, but you’re not using them because the structure you’re working on doesn’t require those tools or that particular advancement, I guess the word is. So, I thought— and my husband always wanted to move to Florida, because his mom lives here. And we used to visit her at least once a year, sometimes twice. That was vacation; let’s go visit Mom! [Laughter] Really.

	EA:	Same with my Dad.



	AA:	[Laughter] But anyway, I liked it because it was warm, and we had a lot of play involved, and going to Disney, and then of course NASA and some of the other sites. So I didn’t mind it. But then, he worked out in the cold. He worked for the water department. And if you know New England, nine months out of the year it’s very, very cold, and/or it’s gray, or raining; you know, it’s just, you have three months of summer and then it’s over. So the thought came to mind for us to relocate. And I think what drove that come to fruition is we had a couple of friends, very close friends, that had passed away, and that we were all pretty much in the same—I wouldn’t say in the same network, but certainly the same neighborhood or community. One was his boss, who was coming home from getting or running an errand for his wife, and he was on his motorcycle, and someone ran a stop sign and killed him instantly. So, that was kind of a real blow, because he was a nice man. And then, another one of our friends, her husband





got very ill with cancer, and you just realize that you’re not promised tomorrow. So. That’s when I started looking for a job. And I’m like, “Well, guess what: Broward County is looking for someone. Let me apply for the position.” And I did, and they called me down for an interview. I believe I had a telephone interview first, and then a actual interview there on-site. And I was selected for the position, relocated. Robert had so many skills, so he was able to get a job very quickly with the state as a heavy equipment operator, and works for the Department of Transportation. And his plant is in Pompano. So, I’m hoping he’ll transfer this way really soon, because it’s been kind of hard.

	EA:	Yeah, I’m sure. AA:	Yeah.

	EA:	So you came—it’s been a year now since you’ve been in Gainesville? AA:	In Gainesville, yes.

	EA:	So what brought you to Gainesville initially?



	AA:	The University of Florida. Yeah, it did. The position, in terms of doing development a hundred percent of my time, whereas before in the previous position as a executive director of one of the libraries, or director of one of the libraries, I did it maybe thirty-five to forty percent. I spent a lot of time trying to find support for the library and garnish people in the community that could help in terms of sponsoring programs, or even be involved as volunteers. And I liked it a lot. That’s the best part of the job that I found rewarding, because it was just simply asking people for help, and they would help you. Very infrequently, and people would usually tell you, “I can’t help you now, but maybe in six months or a





little bit later if you come again.” But anyway, I found from that that I wanted to do something different—or, not so much I wanted to; I was being called to do something different. In terms of just a transition into another career. So.

	EA:	And so, here, part of the development, a lot of it you said was fundraising and gathering money—

	AA:	It is fundraising, yeah! [Laughter] Yes, it is.



	EA:	Do you guys work with RepDIALS? Because I know— AA:	With who?

	EA:	RepDIALS, University of Florida RepDIALS. Yhey do a lot of fundraising stuff. AA:	What is RepDIALS?

	EA:	It’s, they contact on behalf of the colleges here. I used to work there, that’s why it was the first thing that came to mind.

	AA:	Oh, yes. It’s the—not the Florida Fund? EA:	The Florida Fund, yes.

	AA:	Okay, yes. It is the Florida Fund—actually, Houston and now Jennifer Keyes is the new director there. But anyway, yes we do. We have just recently—I guess about two months ago—had a series where we had the students call parents and ask for a donation or solicit them for money for the libraries. So, we would go over and talk to them, and have pizza delivered, and give them some of the library freebies, you know, whatever it happens to be: the lanyards, or the wrist brace—they had some wristbands—and just thank them. Get on the phone and thank the donor, whoever had a gift, and then there was of course little contests





in between. I’m sure you know! But yes, we do. We definitely do. And of course, for the annual fund, too.

	EA:	And so, do you do fundraising events, or coordinate—



	AA:	We do. We do. We do quite a bit of events, to be honest with you, based around the library services and the collections. For instance, recently an author had contacted us through our Friends of the Library group, and was going to be in the Gainesville area, and had written a book; he’s a retired librarian, and he wrote a book about his experience in the Superdome during the Hurricane Katrina. And we thought it was the most appropriate time for him to come, because it touched so many interdisciplinary subjects; contacted faculty, and of course the law school because there was so much that went on with that from a—and the Political Science, too, department. But anyway, we had the Library East, our room 1-A, which is usually where hold our programs. It was overflowing! We were beyond fire code! [Laughter] That’s how many people came. So, we were grateful for that experience. And then the author, whatever books he sold, he would give us fifteen percent of that. So it wasn’t a huge fundraiser, but it was something that we do throughout the year. Another professor, retired professor, had given us a Challenge Grant, which meant that if she gave us fifteen thousand dollars, we’d match that through fundraising efforts for one year. And we were very successful in matching that; actually, we went over the amount. So, we were grateful that we have now the thirty thousand dollars to use towards library services. She particularly wanted it for the women in development or the digital library collection that we have at the Digital Library Center. What else? It





goes on and on. We collaborate with other Development officers, too—or, other colleges on campus, too. Fundraising, typically the big dollars come from donors, to be quite frank with you; there has not been a program that I can think of even in my previous institution that raised a lot of money—when I say “a lot of money,” we consider a major gift to be fifty, a hundred thousand dollars. But typically, that kind of money would come from a corporation or an individual donor.

	EA:	Right. And do you have new projects that are coming up, or new events? AA:	Yes. [Laughter]

	EA:	That you are looking forward to? I mean, I’m sure.



	AA:	Yes, we do. Actually, this is our—I won’t say “downtime,” because there’s never downtime in Development—but this is our planning and stewardship time, where we actually thank and re-thank those who have given to us in the past, let them know what we’ve done with their money. And that may be through a letter or a personal visit to their home if they’re close enough within the state that we can do that. Of course, we have the regional events, too, that we go to. There was one recently in Houston, Texas, where Coach—I think it’s Foley. I can’t remember his first name. But anyway, he was getting honored, but that was another event we called the Gator Club in that area; those who have given to the library, we invite them to that event, to dinner and, you know, talking about the university. But in the fall, we have—I won’t say quite a bit, but quite a bit in terms of a full exhibit schedule, full lecture series, individual programming for library instruction. What we definitely want is the kids to be successful their first year, because that’s critical—as you know as a student, that if you don’t make it within your first year,





chances are the second year is going to be even tougher. And the fact that they’re coming to the largest information portal in the state. Whether you all know it or not, this is the largest library system in the state of Florida. And with that comes a lot of information. And if they don’t know how to decipher that information or find it, it’s very frustrating. And many resort to just googling something on the web, which isn’t always a valid or authenticated source to get your information from. So.

	EA:	No, it’s difficult, too. It’s my fourth year, and I’m still struggling with, like, online journals.

	AA:	Yes. But that’s what we’re here for. And the librarians are very, very, very—I can’t even express this enough—they’re very, very helpful, and want to make sure that people, students particularly, find what they need. And even faculty. Faculty will call up and say, “Well gee, how do I do this?” And they’ll have a one- on-one session with them so they can share or teach the students how to find it. Or they can come to the library, the entire class, and we will teach them.

	EA:	Yeah. Well I mean, I can speak on behalf of the students; I’ve learned a lot, and I appreciate it tremendously.

	AA:	Great! [Laughter] Awesome. Awesome. Very good.



	EA:	Maybe to wrap up, do you have any final words, or maybe any memory that sticks in your head—even if it’s in the past year in Gainesville—that’s important?

	AA:	Oh, my!



	EA:	Or a life lesson to pass on to young students like myself? AA:	Okay! [Laughter] Wow! That’s a—











	EA:	It’s a loaded last question. [Laughter]



	AA:	Yeah, that’s a loaded one! Oh, my gosh! But I guess what I’ll say is, every life experience that you have isn’t always going to be pleasant. But somehow, you have to find the good in that situation, and move on from there or see what you’ve learned from it, and then take that with you on your journey.

	EA:	Well, excellent last words. Thank you so much. AA:	You’re welcome very much; thank you.

[End of interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, August 3, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019