AAHP 331; Murray; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 331 Marva Murray

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Marna Weston on May 17, 2014 49 minutes | 29 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 331

Interviewee: Marva Murray Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: May 17, 2014



	W:	This is Marna Weston for the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program and Macedonia Missionary Baptist Church in Melbourne with our collaboration on interviews of the church. This is May 17th, 2014 and I am in the family worship center with Ms. Murray and thank you very much for agreeing to do the interview today.

	M:	You’re welcome.



	W:	Would you please state and spell your full name from birth?



	M:	Okay. Marva, M-A-R-V-A Adell, A-D-E-L-L Murray, M-U-R-R-A-Y.



	W:	And are any of those names significant to your family or do they come from someone else?

	M:	My middle name, Adell comes from my grandmother on my father’s side paternal.

	W:	Terrific. What is your date and place of birth place? M:	Melbourne, Florida May the 24th, 1954.

	W:	Okay, and when you were born were you born at home or were you born in a hospital?

	M:	In a hospital.



	W:	Which hospital were you born in?



	M:	At that particular time it was called Brevard Hospital. W:	Was that a segregated hospital?

	M:	Yes.



	W:	It was. That was the Black hospital in the area?





	M:	Correct.



	W:	Do you have any knowledge, and you may not, but if you do of the doctor who was present when you were born, who delivered you?

	M:	No idea.



	W:	Who are your mother and father?



	M:	My mother was Betty Grace Reddick Murray. My father was William James Murray. Both are deceased now.

	W:	Would you please spell Reddick? M:	Reddick, R-E-D-D-I-C-K.

	W:	Okay. Thank you and do you recall your mom’s date of birth? M:	Yes. February the 29th, 1932.

	W:	Oh. Leap year baby. so that was a big thing. M:	That was a big thing.

	W:	Terrific. Where was she born at?



	M:	Melbourne, Florida, on the land that I now also reside on, where the Sunday school of Macedonia Baptist Church was started, under the Oak tree.

	W:	Okay, so very historic. M:	It is.

	W:	How about your dad? His date and place of birth.



	M:	My dad was born in Melbourne, Florida. December the 29th, 1929. Okay, in Melbourne.

	W:	What brought your parents to Melbourne or were they from here?





	M:	They were from here. My mother’s foundation began here. My great- grandmother, who was one of the first families of Macedonia at that time, it was called Macedonia Baptist Church. But she was one of the first families, which is Grace Butler and her daughter, which was my mother’s mother, Emily Goodwin, were the first family then my grandmother married my grandfather, Anderson Reddick and I am the fourth generation of Macedonia and it’s two that’s under me that—and I was fortunate during the course of my life to be able to be a part of four generations—it’s six generations that came under Macedonia but I was fortunate to have my great-grandmother alive, my mother, and two uncles, and myself and my grandmother, as part of the Macedonia family and then now it’s two generations that’s under me that are part of Macedonia.

	W:	That’s wonderful. You mentioned your mother’s mother and father. Where were they from?

	M:	They were from Melbourne. Well, my grandmother was born in—my grandmother and grandfather were born in Georgia. When my great-grandmother moved here with my grandmother, they resided here for the years that they were alive.

	W:	Do you recall or do you have family stories that you can recall with some of what part of Georgia they came from?

	M:	I think it was Camilla, Georgia. W:	Camilla, Georgia?

	M:	Yes, if I’m not mistaken.



	W:	Okay, now how about on your dad’s side. Who were his mom and dad? M:	My grandmother was Adell Marie.





	W:	Your namesake?



	M:	My namesake, right. And my grandfather was—my dad was William James Murray and my grandfather was Jerimiah Murray.

	W:	Okay, where were the grandparents from?



	M:	My grandfather was from South Carolina and my grandmother was from Georgia, I forgot which part of Georgia they were from.

	W:	Do you know which part of South Carolina he was from? M:	No, I don’t.

	W:	Do you have any further knowledge of your family, any members, or interesting stories that go back beyond the level of the people we’ve talked about so far?

	M:	No.



	W:	Okay. So the great grandparents— M:	Great-grandparents, yeah.

	W:	That’s where it goes. Do you have children? M:	No.

	W:	Okay, are you married? M:	No.

	W:	Okay, ever been? M:	No.

	W:	Okay. When you think about Macedonia, what is it about Macedonia that makes this place special for you?

	M:	My great-grandmother—I may get a little emotional—and my mother just passed in 2012.





	W:	I’m very sorry for your loss.



	M:	And this was her heart, Macedonia was her heart and because that’s the way she was raised and she was primarily raised by my great-grandmother because my grandmother passed when I was 2 but her foundation was with her father and my great-grand—and my grandmother, and my great-grandmother. And we were just raised that way. We didn’t have a choice with church. [Laughter].

	W:	I understand.



	M:	It was the years. We did not have a choice. Today, kids have—parents allow them to have choices, but we didn’t. When Sunday came, Tuesday came, Wednesday came, whatever day of the week that the service was going on, we weren’t asked if we wanted to go, we were just here, primarily. The Lord, they instilled in us Lord comes first in your life, wherever you go, okay and that’s the way we were—I was raised.

	W:	Do you feel that something’s been lost with today’s youth? That’s not the case, that they have these choices?

	M:	Yeah, because they have these choices now and I look at some of the younger generations. Some of them parents don’t give them choices but I figure if they had that foundation then, it would be a change in the things that they go through now. I don’t think there would be as much violence as it is in today’s society if they kept that foundation going day to day.

	W:	Do you think that the church and the role that it plays in society should be one that young people could expect, that its going to be a part of what they do?





M:  I do. I do. I really do believe that. It’s not a lot of young people today feel that it’s not fun but it is because it’s the Lord. So you take that day by day and then that foundation will go with you wherever you go in life.

W:  Were you baptized here in Macedonia? M:  Yes. 1962.

W:   Who was the pastor?



M:   Reverend John W. Taylor



W:  Okay now you just recalled both of those so quick and you were just so, you were happy to say so. What is it about those experiences that have so much meaning for you, that you can just recall them with joy in that way?

	M:	Well, at that particular time that I was baptized, my grandfather was the chairman of the Deacon Board here and the Sunday that I decided that I was gonna give my life to the Lord, he was there and then when I was baptized, Reverend Taylor at that particular time, he was a pastor. I had known Reverend Massey because my great-grandmother was a missionary, Evangelist throughout the years so I had known Reverend Massey and he was just like a pastor to me and then when I joined, under Reverend Taylor I can recall that when I was baptized I was baptized in the old church and at that particular time, we had the pool where you had to lift it up and go underneath the water and so it was a wooden church, which means there was a lot of roaches and of that. I can recall stating to him, “Reverend Taylor I can’t go down there in that water.” He said, “Oh you going down” and then [Laughter] – So I had- and my grandfather said the same thing, great-grandmother, “Oh you going” and so after I was baptized and then they





assign you a Deacon and before he was able to assign me a Deacon, I asked him if I could have my grandfather as my Deacon and he thought about it and he said “I think that would be a great idea,” because my grandfather was the type of person that we had service on Sunday morning before service started. That was something that we had to do. If it wasn’t anything but hymn and a prayer, we did that before we went to Sunday school as a family. He lived down the street from us so we would walk from our home to his, have prayer, and do a hymn, he would line a hymn and then we would go around the corner to church.

	W:	Did you – So you grew up in this neighborhood, where did you go to school when you first started?

	M:	Stone School.



	W:	Shone—Okay, that was like from the very beginning?



	M:	From the very beginning—well, no I went Mrs. Cealie’s class, who had a Kindergarten. She was my Kindergarten teacher, Mrs. Minnie Cealie.

	W:	Okay. Was it Cealie School or what was it? M:	Yes. Well, it was Cealie’s Kindergarten.

	W:	Okay.



	M:	Okay.



	W:	Can you tell me about that, who was Mrs. Cealie and –



	M:	Mrs. Cealie, Mrs. Minnie Cealie, she was a close friend of my mom’s over the years but Mrs. Cealie—how can I describe Mrs. Minnie Cealie? She was just a teacher that gave us our foundation. She had a little school for the Kindergarten





kids and we had graduation just like if we were in high school and all caps and gowns –

	W:	So she was an institution in herself? M:	In herself.

	W:	Where was the school located?



	M:	It was located on Ray Street, not on Ray Street, a couple of blocks from our church and a couple of blocks from where I live and my mom would – all 3 of my two older brothers, she would walk us there 5 days a week and then when we – on Sundays, she was our cradle room teacher, here at Macedonia and the old Macedonia. And I learned my tutelage under her also because I was a teacher under her as a Youth teacher, under Mrs. Cealie, yes.

	W:	So her influence stretched from what 5-15, I mean you saw her for that long time?

	M:	Yes, I—Up until I left here and she passed but she was an influence in a lot of our lives. Mr. Taylor might have been, I don’t know if you’ve interviewed him but he might have been her first, one of her first students, during the course of that time.

	W:	Mr. Taylor who was here today, that was his earlier? M:	Yes.

	W:	The son of the former pastor. M:	Yes.

	W:	Okay, so everybody went to Mrs. Cealie’s? M:	Everybody went to Mrs. Cealie’s.





	W:	Well when you graduated from Mrs. Cealie’s, what’d you do? M:	Then I went to Stone School.

	W:	Stone School. Now that was 1st through 12 or—



	M:	Well, at that particular time that I went it was 1st through 12. Okay. We went to Stone School and then it was phased out in 1967. So after ’67, we finished out a couple of years there then we went to Melbourne High School, to finish the 10th, 11th and 12th grade there. But Stone School was my first grade through 9th grade that I’ve gotten there.

	W:	So you would’ve been planning, you’d hope that you would be going there for high school—

	M:	Yes.



	W:	So what was that like when you found out that there wouldn’t be an opportunity—



?



	M:	Tears. We were somewhat angry because we– and we tease ‘em now because we have school reunions and I’m a part of it and Mr. Taylor is the president of the Melbourne Vocational Stone High School. My mother went to Melbourne Vocational and we combined it with Stone High School.

	W:	You were the “just us?”



	M:	Well, I’m just us. I’m just us. Okay and a part of the Melbourne vocation. I’m a part of the just us. I’m the president of just us.

	W:	Okay tell me how just us—you’re the president? M:	Yes.

	W:	So tell me how did “just us” come about?







M:

Well, when we graduated from Melbourne High School in 1972, several years



after that, when they planned the reunion, a lot of times we weren’t invited to be a



part of that reunion.

W:

They kinda just forgot to include you.

M:

Correct. And the year that we did participate, we made all these plans together



but when the reunion began then all of those plans went up in the air so –

W:

It was different.

M:

It was different. So we, the class of 1972, just us. Okay. [Laughter]

W:

How many people does this entail? What size was the Just us class?

M:

75-100 and we are planning a reunion.

W:

That’s just us?

M:

Cause we turn 60 this year, just us. [Laughter]

W:

Who came up with the name?

M:

I did.

W:

And it just caught on right away.

M:

It caught on right away.

W:

But you go to the Stone High School reunion and the just us reunion.

M:

Right.

W:

So when was the first just us?

M:

19-probably when I was 50—it’ll be 10 years. It’ll be 10 years this year because –

W:

Have you had 10 of ‘em?

M:

Uh, no we did it every 5 years.

W:

Oh, just us was every 5 years.





	M:	5 years. We get together but we plan a reunion 50-55 and then 60. W:	Okay now what about Stone, is that every year or—?

	M:	Stone is every 2 years and we have a reunion this year. It’s every 2 years.



	W:	Every two years. Okay so every 2 years means every 5th time I guess y’all coincide with them.

	M:	Yes.



	W:	So there’s a few in-between.



	M:	Yes. And it happens this year because we’ll turn 60 this year so we are planning one the week after the Melbourne Vocation, which I’ll be involved in both of them.

	W:	You mentioned that you all were very upset when the schools were gonna close. Did you have a lot of warning or did you just hear the one year at the end of this next year, that’s the end of it?

	M:	We were told that the class of 1967, which my oldest brother graduated that would be the last year of Stone School as a high school and it was a hurting feeling because everyone—we all look forward to graduating from the heritage— and it was special to me because Stone School, my uncle, which they spoke of earlier today, John Stone, he donated the van for Stone School. So Stone School has always been special as a part of our family life.

	W:	Does the school physically still exist? M:	Yes, it does. It’s a middle school.

	W:	Middle school. Same name or is there a change—? M:	Same name





	W:	Stone Middle School. The principals and the teachers, when Stone closed, were they hired at the new school or that was it for them?

	M:	No. Some of them went to different schools in the area. Some chose to retire cause some chose to go to the different schools.

	W:	What do you think is the most significant thing for you having attended a predominately Black high school? How has that changed your life?

	M:	Because I believe that it was my foundation. Okay and a foundation that can go with you for the rest of your life and it instilled family, a closeness. Okay that you may or may not have. But it just instilled the closeness.

	W:	Were there any special things that happened that senior year, that you still remember now, whether they were good or bad. Are there things that just stand out for you?

	M:	The senior year that when the school closed? W:	Yes ma’am.

	M:	Well, that year my oldest brother graduated. So for my mom it was just family time for us as a family because it was the last, he was the last—my mother went to Melbourne Vocational High School and then my brother graduated from Stone and he was the last, he was the first class that started at Stone for 12 years because a lot of ‘em came from Melbourne Vocational there but he began that first class so he was the last class, so it was an emotional time and a time of fun and love for our family, as a family. And the community as a family because we were raised in the community as a family, even though, your mother or your father and your grandparents, in the area here that we grew up, anyone could tell





you what to do and what not to do and you could not talk back to them in any form or fashion.

	W:	So that was accepted, that was expected? M:	It was expected, yes.

	W:	How is that different from now?



M:  Because you can’t say anything to these kids today. [Laughter] These kids carry guns and knives like you out there playing marbles or something. But you know, we just had clean fun growing up.

	W:	I’d like to get back to the church but I’m sure I’ll come back to the school as I do have some other questions. I want to know, what church ministries are you involved in, I saw you working with the Kitchen Ministry.

	M:	Kitchen Ministry. I’m in the Inspirational Choir. Grew up in the choir so from a young age went to Sunday school. I’m assistant teacher in the Sunday school. I started off that way in the cradle room as a youth teacher, going each year to the associated, going each year to the conventions because my great-grandmother carried me—I was very close to my great-grandmother. She carried me year after year and she was a vital part in my life as part of the association into the district association in the state conventions here.

	W:	What part does Macedonia play in your life—in terms of percentage wise? You’re talking about going to conventions, being here, I mean obviously you had a full day here and you’re now doing the interview so on an average, daily, basis, what percentage of your life do you think is spent, not daily, pardon me, a week throughout the course of a week, what percentage?





	M:	I would say, since my mother passed, I would say out of 7 days a week, I may come down to do things within the kitchen area maybe 3, maybe 4 times during the course of the week, maybe stay doing—I’m one of the purchasing agents so I would go out and do certain things here and it has given me—

	W:	Purpose?



	M:	Purpose. Okay.



	W:	So this is a way to handle that loss and also to give back. M:	Handle that loss.

	W:	And also to give back.



	M:	Right. It is. I was a caregiver for my mother 17 years and she was on dialysis for 14 and then I did dialysis at home for her for 4 years so that was my daily pattern because when I came back here I did not come back—I came back to spend time with my mother and she got sick in the interim and my grandmother on my father’s side did and I had two aunts so I just gave it to the Lord.

	W:	I know that you feel that the time that you spent with your mother, even with her being ill was well worth while.

	M:	It was.



	W:	And very, very special to give to her and be her daughter. As you think back on that time and how you spent it, would you say that you picked up traits or skills or characteristics from doing that, from going through that type of a test that are valuable to you now?

	M:	I did.



	W:	And if so, what would some of those be?





	M:	My mother was a hard worker in this church, okay, in Macedonia. My great- grandmother was the same and I find that rewarding because I think that when they instill that from a generation down it gives you, your purpose in life and want to be able to give back that 100% and without recognition, just to give it and you know that’s my service. I just want to serve and that’s what I try to do on a daily basis. Not for any type of recognition because I don’t like that but because when we do things as a ministry, we do it together and for me that’s giving my service back to the Lord.

	W:	A program like today, I don’t know how involved you were in the planning of it but what are your thoughts on today’s program?

	M:	I thought it was excellent and as I told Angenette, my only regret is that some of the members that have gone on, that this wasn’t done then because they could have given more of the history of Macedonia than some of us now of this generation because they lived it day by day and they are missed because they are gone and not—we may find out later about some things that we should’ve known then and I’m glad that its happened now because the generations that will come after us, at least they will have that foundation. Some of it I have, some of it we will pick up in bits and pieces from different interviews that people give. But that’s my only regret is that some of those that have gone on wasn’t able to be here today to do this.

	W:	What do you think if you could just pick out someone in general who has passed on if they were here to share an observation, what would it be about a day like today?





	M:	It would be my mother, obviously, Mrs. Bernie Fountain, Taylor, Deacon Thomas because they could tell you just how much they enjoyed working and giving to the Lord and I just think we miss that with our generation of kids. You just had good clean fun and going to church, you just had good, clean fun. I think that obviously, they would’ve been older and it was time that the Lord had called them home but they could have shared those good times that they had growing up.

	W:	Are there ministries besides the kitchen ministry that you’re involved in, as well? M:	I’m in the choir and the Sunday school.

	W:	What do you see your roles being in those two organizations? You mentioned service—?

	M:	Just service. I just like to serve. You know.



	W:	What are a few of your cherished memories from your time in Macedonia that you could mention?

	M:	Mrs. Cealie. I started off speaking as a young person and would memorize any speech that was given and so now I can carry that on for the rest of my life but I don’t have a problem with speaking in front of—and that was learned at a early age through my great-grandmother, my mother and Mrs. Cealie.

	W:	Is that something you’ve ever attempted to carry on through the youth ministry or the coach or inspire others?

	M:	Yes. [Laughter] During any time that I can give. I do try to pass that on and encourage.





	W:	When you think about Melbourne as it’s changed since the time that you were a child and now, do you have any specific observations or concerns?

	M:	The safety of our youth, the safety of our seniors, because growing up you were able to sit in your home without even locking your doors. It was times when you could not even have to lock your doors at night but you can’t do that anymore, you have to in every instance now, you have to be careful going in and out of your homes, in and out of the various places that you go on a daily basis and it was—I just think it was family orientated and that’s why I’m glad that this foundation has been brought back the family because perhaps now it can touch some of the younger individuals now.

	W:	Have there been, cause I hadn’t asked about this before, but have there been any tragedies, criminally or something like that that have occurred specifically in the church or the neighborhood that have made people much more security conscious?

	M:	Not that I’m aware of. I just think that a lot of times, seniors have fear because the drug situations and all.

	W:	What type of a role does the church and it’s ministries play with the police and the local government to try to ameliorate some of these problems. Are there specific things that Macedonia does?

	M:	Well, I think Macedonia, will outreach, so anyone that comes in, the mission and the pastor, Reverend Harris, he’s a community involved individual and he doesn’t have, he’s not up here and someone that’s on the street is down here, he welcomes us all in, regardless.





W:   How has that particular philosophy helped to strengthen the church?



M:  I think it gives them a needed foundation that will enable us to carry him. W:  What is your definition of leadership? What is a leader?

M:  A leader is one that first of all, can be a follower and is a follower. He/she doesn’t ask you to do anything that they are not willing to do themselves. Okay, and lays out that foundation for you and then we bring it all together as one.

	W:	When you think about that concept of leadership or leaders, who are some people today that you look at either nationally, or locally, statewide, family wise, in any way that you choose to characterize but people who you see as leaders if you could name one of two and explain why?

	M:	I have a cousin that goes here and he was to be interviewed today, Eugene Johnson. I would say Mr. Taylor, Clifton Taylor, President Obama, okay, and my mother.

	W:	And all four of them have what characteristics there or in common or specialize in—why would each of them be a leader for you?

	M:	Because they gave the best that they had to give and still do without looking for anything in return.

	W:	When you think about America after Barack Obama, this is just a little off but I just wanna follow up on a leadership angle, do you have any concerns?

	M:	Well, I pray for him every day for this nation because it’s a lot to encounter. I’m not saying that other presidents have not had to encounter that but in his particular case he has a double whammy that he’s carrying. So he needs prayer for all of us.





	W:	When you graduated from high school, what were your immediate activities?



What happened in your life?



	M:	Okay, when I left here, I went to the University of Florida for I guess about a year and then I transferred to Florida A&M and then when my father passed in 1976, then I joined—I lived in Connecticut for a number of years and then I went into the military.

	W:	May I back up for a second, I’d love to talk about the military. But I’m curious, you mentioned you were at the University of Florida for 1 year and then went to Florida A&M University, what year did you attend the University of Florida?

	M:	[19]72.



	W:	Can you describe what the campus was like or what the experiences were like for you in 1972?

	M:	I was young, I was 18 years of age and first time away from home and missed family life and had wanted to be around family so when I left the University of Florida I went to—because I had a brother that was in Tallahassee at that time and so I wanted to be around family for that closeness.

	W:	Did you feel any specific tension as a student because you mentioned being there after Black Tuesday took place so I’m kinda curious did you hear or know about Black Tuesday and what was the campus like from that perspective as a black student in 1972?

M:  It was tough because you had a lot that you were dealing with and especially being young, it was hard and it was tough, just being black in an environment that you were not used to.







W:



M:

Did you know Sam Taylor?



Yes.

W:

Okay, what were your thoughts about Sam cause I’ve talked to him a little about



his experience. I know he was president for a while and Oscar Brennan and--

M:

Yes, yes.

W:

So you’re familiar with these guys?

M:

Yes but I didn’t know them personally.

W:

Okay but you read the Alligator or knew what was going on?

M:

Yes.

W:

Were you active in the Black Student Union or—?

M:

No.

W:

Okay. Were you involved in any of the—well, you got there after.

M:

After, yes.

W:

So what were people saying about what took place during that time?

M:

If I recall, they only stated that you know it was a difficult road for them to travel



and it may get better and it may not get better but it would have to take time.

W:

Who was the president when you were there? Was it still President O’Connell?

M:

I can’t remember.

W:

What courses were you taking? What was your major?

M:

At that particular—Math.

W:

And why math?

M:

I just love numbers.





	W:	Did you, at that time, in math have any African American mentors or teachers, you know people who made a connection for you, made it easier for you be there? I know you left, you went to FAMU but was there a potential for a community there for you at that time?

	M:	Yes, I had a teacher, Mr. Heath. He was very good and my foundation came from here, Mr. Raymond Byrd, with math and with my older brother.

	W:	Was there anybody else in the Gainesville community, you know of the UF, that for you was either a someone for support or help you fight solitude or mostly you was up there by yourself?

	M:	Correct.



	W:	Okay, so you left after the first year? M:	Yes.

	W:	You got to Tallahassee and things were better or worse? M:	Better. They were better.

	W:	Okay, how so?



	M:	Family life and then I knew a lot of people that were there so it was a closeness there.

	W:	So like instead of walking around campus and not talking to anybody, it was like “Hey wassup, wassup, wassup?”

	M:	[Laughter] It was.



	W:	What was the political environment on that campus in 1972? I know the war was shutting down.

	M:	Shutting down, right.







W:

Nixon, there was no Watergate yet.

M:

Right.

W:

He was tricky but he wasn’t sticky. [Laughter]

M:

It was fine. I have no complaints.

W:

Did you vote in 1972?

M:

Yes.

W:

Did you vote for Nixon?

M:

No. [Laughter]

W:

I’m sorry, I just wanted to see the reaction on your face. [Laughter] How did that



Eagleton thing look to you cause that must have been kinda weird to you all at



the time?

M:

Yes, it was. It was. It was different, yes. It really was.

W:

And that was your first election for President?

M:

Right.

W:

So were you a little disillusioned or—?

M:

I was, you know, trying to feel my way through and as time passed you obviously



do.

W:

Did you vote for Carter in [19]76?

M:

Yes.

W:

And did that make you feel better?

M:

It did. [Laughter]

W:

Must’ve been a lot different.

M:

It was.





	W:	You know, while we’re on this, I mean the whole thing about the Eagleton, Carter, Obama, there must be, in your perception over the course of your adult life and participating as an adult, it must feel very different for you now—

	M:	It does.



	W:	Than it did from this first election what a ride to Jimmy Carter. Could you describe that arc of change?

	M:	Well, I would say, I always go back to foundation because I believe that’s where you get your beginning and it was a joy to see an African American President and it was a joy to watch and I always go back to my mother because she was a big part of my life and to see her being able and some of the other individuals that were a part of her generation to be able to witness this in her lifetime, something that will be a part of the history books, we hope and pray are that it would be that can help us to move forward for younger kids to know that this is possible.

	W:	Do you think that it’s possible in any way that this might be something we don’t see again for a while, is that a concern?

	M:	I do, I do.



	W:	Why do you think not only you but so many other people feel that way?



	M:	Because there’s still in some instances it’s not an acceptance of him, of Obama being President of the United States and even on both sides of the Democrats and the Republicans and I just don’t see it happening in years to come, maybe many, many years from now, but I don’t foresee it for several more years that that would happen.





	W:	With that being said, this new election, probably the leading Democratic candidate seems to be Hillary Clinton.

	M:	Hillary Clinton, right.



	W:	And maybe the Republicans might have Jeb Bush, I mean who knows. M:	Right.

	W:	But, what are your thoughts about Hillary Clinton’s possibilities?



	M:	I think it’s going to be a hard road for her to travel. Not so much her past, but individuals would bring up the past of something that would have nothing to do with her per say. Okay and it’s going to be a battle for those of us that will support her.

	W:	So you would consider supporting her? M:	I would.

	W:	Okay. When you think about Melbourne 5 years from now, where will you be?



What will you be doing, 5 years from now in the context of this community?



	M:	Hoping and praying that I will be serving still cause I enjoy it. On a daily basis, I enjoy it.

	W:	Is Macedonia in a position to impact the community in a significant way over that period of time?

	M:	I think so. I believe so. I think we have impacted the—even with the day of the history that—the genealogy that we’re pushing into now. I think if that would get into this whole community, then I think it would be just great for this community. We’ll find out a lot of things about, good or bad, family life, generations, and the kids. I have nieces and nephews that I will want them to know the history of





Melbourne, to know the history of their family, to know the history of Macedonia, where their great-great-grandparents were members, where their foundation began.

	W:	I wanna just mentions a few, just things, in random and you can give a short answer to it or think about you know whatever your reactions are gonna be, I’ll just fish this out for a little bit. Favorite hobby?

	M:	Watching basketball and football. W:	Okay. Miami Heat?

	M:	No comment. [Laughter] W:	Alright. Miami Dolphins?

	M:	No comment. [Laughter] I know they say I’m from Florida but—[Laughter] W:	Walmart?

	M:	It’s okay. But I’m a Winn-Dixie person.



	W:	Rick Scott? Not this Rick Scott, that Rick Scott. M:	I don’t—[Laughter] definitely no comment.

	W:	Miami Hurricanes? M:	Okay.

	W:	Tallahassee?



	M:	The hill, yes. Enjoyed it for my time there. W:	Do you think that they’ve been treated fairly? M:	No.

	W:	Okay, do you think it’s going to change?



	M:	We’ll have to have some strong individuals that would help with the change.





	W:	Has the leadership change been one that you think is gonna help? M:	I think so. I think so.

	W:	And now, does Macedonia and other churches, are they also involved with FAMU, you know, encouraging students to go there or being involved as a group or, what do you think is the general—I know the church is probably happy for students to go anywhere but is there a particular affinity for FAMU or Bethune- Cookman here?

	M:	I think it is. Reverend Harris’ foundation with his children, a lot of individuals that have gone here, their foundation with Florida A&M and Bethune-Cookman, I think it’s great.

	W:	With that being said, are you surprised that there was a University of Florida that was interested to come here and be involved in genealogy programs?

M:  I was. To be honest, I was. But I was happy but it only goes to show you from all walks of life we can learn a whole lot, okay. I’m grateful that you all took the time to do this.

W:   What is it about the University of Florida being involved that surprised you?



	M:	Well I didn’t know—when I heard I was surprised because I didn’t know that they would take the time to want to do this, especially for this community to the severity that you all have taken this to. And so that made me really feel good because you did not have to do this and I thought it was the greatest gesture that you could have come and share this information with us of how to move forward and I don’t know if Florida A&M would have done that even though— I just don’t know if they would have taken the time to do that.





W:  And being with that said that doesn’t change your feelings about FAMU or whatever–

M: You right, it doesn’t. W:  That’s just how it is. M:   That’s just how it is.

W:  But that being said, it’s still a surprise; University of Florida. M:  Yes.

W:   Does it make you feel better about your time spent there?



	M:	Yes, it does. I have no regrets about the time that I spent there and like I said, I was young at that particular time.

W:   And those were particularly tough times—



M:   Times, right. And so you become older and wiser.



	W:	I think that we’ve talked about pretty much everything there is to talk about but I don’t wanna cut it off right there. I want to give you the opportunity to discuss anything that maybe something I haven’t brought up that you would like to discuss or something you think—

M:  No, I’m grateful to have had this opportunity and in particular because you have made me comfortable, even with the emotional part, as I’ve stated. Some things are emotional for me and I do appreciate it.

W:   Well, thank you.



	M:	Okay, I really do. You didn’t make me feel uncomfortable, you know, with the emotions that I did encounter so I am grateful.





	W:	Thank you. And equally to you. I did not share but I’ve lost my dad recently, he just passed away in December but it wasn’t we knew was gonna happen but it did so immediately when you said what you said I was like I completely understand exactly where you are.

		M:	Okay, and I appreciate it. Okay, and thank you for that. W:		Thank you and I know we’ll both see ‘em again.

	M:	Okay, that’s right.



	W:	Well then on behalf of the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program and the Macedonia Missionary Baptist Church collaboration taking place in these interviews, I want to thank you for the time that you’ve spent to come in and talk with us. I think it was extremely beneficial, informational, educational, and I just want to give you the opportunity for final privilege, if there’s anything you wanna say, at this time you can say—

	M:	Just don’t be a stranger here. If we need help, help us out, you know, to show us the way. Okay and like I said, I do appreciate today.

	W:	Thank you very much. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Amelia D’costa, November 19, 2014 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, June 1, 2017

	Final edited by:	Ryan Morini, February 24, 2019