AAHP 684; Williams; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 684 Ieshia Williams African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Marcus Chatfield on July 7, 2019 1 hours and 8 minute | 26 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Ieshia Williams talks about her upbringing, her time in the military and her reflections after. At the beginning of the interview, Williams talks about the difference between growing up in Georgia compared to her time in California including how the curriculum was different and the culture shock it induced. At Stone Mountain High School, Williams was introduced to the recruiter and decided that she would join the Air Force shortly after high school. Williams talks about her time in the Air Force including the sexism and trauma of being in the military. In conclusion, Williams talks about reflecting on her time in the Air Force including understand the social structures that existed within the military.



Keywords: [African American History Project, Joel Buchanan Project, JBA, Veterans History, Air Force, Sexism, Black History, Georgia, California]

















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 684

Interviewee: Ieshia Williams Interviewer: Marcus Chatfield Date: July 7, 2019





	C:	This is Marcus Chatfield. Today is July 7, 2019. We’re in Pensacola, Florida and I am here with…

	W:	Iesha Williams.



	C:	And could you spell your first name?



	W:	Yes, My first name is spelled I-E-S-H-I-A. C:	Thank you.

	W:	Um-hm.



	C:	And are you from Pensacola?



	W:	No, sir. I’m actually from California originally. C:	Okay.

	W:	Yeah, Sylmar, California.



	C:	Okay. And what year were you born? W:	1991.

	C:	Okay. And did you grow up there in California?



	W:	Yes, I spent the bulk of my life in California until my ninth grade year. My family and I moved to Stone Mountain, Georgia. And I continued you know going to high school through there. Graduated and then joined the Air Force thereafter. Like immediately after.

	C:	So you moved to Stone Mountain in your ninth… W:	Ninth grade year.

	C:	Ninth grade.



	W:	Yeah.





	C:	What was it like heading to Stone Mountain, Georgia from California?



	W:	Complete culture shock. Getting used to the way that people spoke. It took me a while to honestly be able to really be able to understand people. So there was a bit of that. Living in the South is definitely different from the West Coast in a lot of ways. It was really nice to… especially a lot of the things that I had lived through in California, it was refreshing and it a lot of ways I was able to relax a bit more as far as being able to see more Black people. The racism is different. In California, people won’t necessarily tell you right away what their feelings are [and] what their beliefs are. But there’s still a lot of violence and overt racism that takes place that I guess people would assume you would only see in the South. For instance, early on in my childhood our house was attacked by Skinheads and when the police responded to the incident the first things that they did was to… begin to question myself at eight and my little sister at five about what we were doing there as though we were thought to be perpetrators. My mother intervened and yeah things were at least… I mean this is all from the perspective of a child so things were cleared up from there I suppose but I just know that I recall hearing her on the phone quite a bit after that trying to get someone to take things more seriously in terms of viewing it as a hate crime and in terms of recording it as such. And as far as I know the young men who attacked us were never held responsible. So I say that to say that in Georgia at least in Stone Mountain and in Atlanta it was different in a sense that I don’t think I’ve ever seen that many Black people in one place. And then to see the varying degrees of





socioeconomic success to get more of a feel for the range that can exist as a Black person was amazing.

	C:	So it’s the range in the Black community? W:	Um-hm.

	C:	When you were in California was that your first real experience of a racist attack?



	W:	That honestly been my only real violent incident with racism. I mean there have been… of course people have things to say every now and then… well let me not say every now and then because it makes things seem more haphazard or less frequent but that was the only experience I’ve had in terms of being genuinely afraid for my life.

	C:	I said real but I don’t know why I said that. I’m really wondering was that your first experience of racism and I don’t know why I said that.

	W:	No I mean I understand when you say… at least the way I understood you saying real meant like I guess real in the sense of it being so traumatic or emotionally impactful. Something that shakes you to your core. And in that sense, yes that was the first of that type.

	C:	Yeah. So your mother called to report it. The police show up and they’re instantly putting you on the defensive.

	W:	Yes sir.



	C:	So in Stone Mountain, Georgia you say it was different.



	W:	Yeah it was different in the sense of… so the first thing when I got there you know… Outside of being in the south I have never actually seen confederate flags or the battle flag rather. Enough to even know that there is a difference in





terminology. I had never seen it outside of that show Dukes of Hazard. Outside of television I have never seem it. And it is so much as show that people wear their believes proudly and so you get an understanding from the jump if whether people are going to be open to you or not. I guess in that sense…I don’t know, I wonder if perhaps the way I’m describing it is just from particular experience things were just different because the area that we moved to was so heavily Black. It was an area where someone had once been like…I don’t know what the term would be for it, not really the headquarters but it very heavily White supremacist and the clan had rallies there I believe, maybe not on Stone Mountain but around and near the actual gradient stone mountain.

	C:	Do they have neon light show there?



	W:	They do have the—well the last time I was there they still do the light shows [Laughter], the very very Confederate light shows of all the—I guess are they all generals? Cause I’m not even sure but yeah they’re homage to the Confederacy. They still ironically do that there but…cause it’s weird it’s such a heavily Black area but as you drive through Stone Mountain Village in the quote on quote downtown area of Stone Mountain, you’ll get down to what is that street called? You get down to a particular area, you can’t miss it cause there’s a Confederate cemetery right there and then across the street from the Confederate cemetery is this German bakery and the juxtaposition of all of these different thing, have the mountain in the background, have the confederate cemetery to have all of these different things that in ways can be tied into what this place once very much was and then in terms of when I go back there and talk to people now there’s been a





frequency with which people have been trying to I guess take it back in the sense of trying to hold rallies and trying to, if I’m not mistaken, I think the Clan had been trying to hold a rally at least three years ago there and the people of the community essentially responded that that ain’t going to happen. We’re not having it and if you want we can fight but you know. So, I don’t know if that—like the racism is there but there’s a difference when you have a community behind you, when you’re not alone and in California I was very much alone in the sense of like we were the first Black family to move into that neighborhood.

	C:	I’m going to stop the recorder just for a second…To get it started again, my next question would be: did you spend all four high school years in Stone Mountain?

	W:	Okay so actually my…no, cause unfortunately I decided to partake in—I smoked weed so yeah there was that and it kind of interfered with my studies so one year in California and I went to Stone Mountain High and then to Stevenson [High School], I graduated from Stevenson High [inaudible 10:33] that was a little embarrassing there.

	C:	Is that in Stone Mountain?



	W:	Yes, it is. The part about me saying no was just the fact that my ninth-grade year was a little derailed by my own irresponsibility so…

	C:	I see, I see and so your ninth-grade year was in California? W:	And then another ninth-grade year

	C:	I see



	W:	In Stone Mountain, I really just [inaudible 11:05], I skip over that part [Laughter], sorry!





	C:	So, what was school like in Stone Mountain?



	W:	In Stone Mountain it was…it was a little different…I remember people…just like…I don’t want to give the impression that California is just like so much more open, but I think I started to really understand sexism more when I got to Stone Mountain. I started to feel it more. There were definitely some cultural differences just in terms of like using the word worldly. I took on a completely different context than what I expected and lead to being perceived by people differently as opposed to asking what I was trying to convey, there was just an assumption made…

	C:	What’s the significance of worldly, of that word?



	W:	There was more the I guess biblical sense of worldly as opposed to the literal definition of worldly. Honestly, when I think back on it now I don’t know why I even hesitate to even talk about it I guess because the truth is that…I recognize now as an adult that a lot of what I was observing and a lot of what was going on around me was what we typically today and especially in the time of “Me Too” which referred to there was a lot of going on in terms of gang rape was genuinely what people were talking about. It wasn’t perceived that way and it was assumed that anyone who identified as female that found themself in a situation—in that type of situation had to of known what they were getting themselves and that it was ultimately and entirely they’re fault.

	C:	And that was happening in the community? W:	Mmhm

	C:	Yeah and were you a member of a church?





	W:	No, I attended church a lot more in California than I did in Georgia. I never found a place where I felt comfortable…I guess because I’ve always been someone who it wasn’t really perceived this way in California but when I got to Georgia you know the idea of being a tomboy or the idea of being very much the type of person who genuinely who wants to things that guys are doing was…like I remember just simple things like riding my bike or wanting to do skateboarding or anything like that, I would constantly hear things like that I will never find a husband with all those scars on my legs or yeah really ridiculous things that make absolutely no sense but I don’t know it’s like culturally there’s this idea that in order to be female, in order to identify as female you got a very ridged set of rules and a very small box which to fit and if you can’t fit inside of that box then you’re a problem and I really encountered that to that degree before I suppose.

	C:	Yeah, and did you enjoy high school? Or like the academics?



	W:	Parts of yeah. Yeah, the academics I enjoyed…there were definitely teachers that…taught me a lot more about my ability to learn more about it means to be Black or to be able to understand more about the fact that that’s a very—that what it means to be Black is very personable for me. There are things that are culturally significant of course and that are shared that…I don’t know I think being around so many teachers that were also Black themselves gave me the freedom to come into my identity if that makes sense. For me, I think it was the beginning of being able to challenge the world and really try to figure out if the things I was learning or the things that I believed were really apart of me because I wanted or needed them to be or if it was just something that I had been indoctrinated into





believing. I don’t think I would have gained a full self of self the way that I have if my mom had not had us move. With all the good and the bad it really helps to develop me in terms of…being proud of where I come from and wanting to know more and being connected more to that so…and those teachers definitely fostered that

	C:	Yeah, yeah, yeah I like to see empowerment, I hear you say empowerment. W:	Yeah, I agree with empowerment definitely

	C:	So, from high school did you go right into the Air force or did you…



	W:	Yeah, I was going to try to do community college immediately after but money stood in the way so military offered me an opportunity to not have that be an issue [Laughter] so…

	C:	What was the decision like deciding to the Air Force?



	W:	Honestly, that young, a kid straight out of high school…I think and this might not be true for everyone but I think a lot time you may not have the—our parents want the best for us but we don’t necessarily have the ability to speak with them as openly and as honestly as maybe we should be able to. I think if maybe I’d been able lean on that relationship a little bit more, I probably wouldn’t have decided to join the Air Force because I was hesitant about doing it anyway. But there’s definitely this idea that as soon as you turn eighteen, even though the world can be very difficult and it isn’t designed to help people who have no credit history and no work history to be able to excel there’s still this idea that once you reach that threshold, that age, that you should enter the world and just make the most of it that you can when I think that can tend to hurt people. We can tend to





make a lot of really bad decisions and I think in—although I don’t regret my decision to join the Air Force, there’s been a lot that I’ve learned and that I’ve been afforded by being able to do that. I genuinely wonder what would’ve happened if I’d been able to go to a HBCU and experience life from a different perspective. I hope I answered your question, I think I might have gone off on a tangent.

	C:	I just wondered about the decision, how you got the idea to go to the Air Force?



About the decision making [inaudible 20:48]



	W:	Like I said, the driving factor for it was that honestly my mom and I were not getting along very well at the time and I needed to find a constructive use of my time while I figured out what I was going to do with the rest of my life and the Air Force was the way to do that, that I chose at least.

	C:	Did they have a recruiter in Stone Mountain?



	W:	Yeah…I’m trying to remember which wall that was but there was definitely ROTC [Reserve Officers’ Training Corps] at our schools, I mean already always seen that as an option and oh I almost forgot, Joseph Thattle, a friend of mine from high school, I remember he was joining the army and I knew I didn’t want to do that. That’s actually how I ended up making the connection with the recruiter through a high school friend who was actually like, “Hey I’m going into the army maybe you should talk to them about joining the military too”.

	C:	Did you consider Navy or any other?



	W:	Yeah I considered for like a hot second, I considered the Army. I think really more just to polite and then I seriously considered the Navy but I get sea sick and





I don’t know I guess—I’ve never been on a cruise so I didn’t know what to expect from that so swimming wasn’t an obstacle but the idea of being on a vessel for long periods of time just didn’t appeal to me and then there was a family friend who was also a mechanic that had been in, I think he was in the army. He talked about his experience in Vietnam, what he had seen, and the stark difference in terms of how different branches were treated, what resources they had available to them and he was like I genuinely think if you’re going to join the military you should seriously consider the Air Force. After he explained the differences in terms of again the food and just everything else and also proximity to combat, I was like, oh yeah those are really good reasons to join the Air Force as opposed to something else so.

	C:	Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. So, when you signed up, how soon before you found out where your basic training in the Air Force, I’m assuming?

	W:	Yeah, so at that time I believe it was six weeks for basic training, I think it’s eight weeks or something now, or maybe twelve, I forget. I think they made them all the same length now but it was six weeks at that point but they don’t tell you that’s there’s a zero week, so you actually have seven. But yeah, I didn’t learn which base I would be going to first until actually after almost at the end of technical school so once you’re like—cause I guess what can happen is people can—once you go into basic training, not everybody finishes so I guess there’s really no point of telling you what base you’re going to then because they don’t necessarily know you’re going to finish and then also in tech school there are people who end up what they call washing out. So, if you don’t your technical





training then you have to choose another career field. So, if you don’t have—I mean they could tell you where they think you’ll be going but if you don’t finish your training you may not be able to get that slot, it may not be guaranteed for another AFSC [Air Force Specialty Code] or Air Force Specialty, AFSC, School Code I think it stands for. Might have gotten that a little bit wrong but you’re coding for your school and your job. So, for the most part it’s like once I got to the point where once we all knew that we were graduating or completing our training—I forget what point that was—that’s when we found out what bases we’d be going to.

	C:	[inaudible 25:32] when you decided to go in?



	W:	Oh gosh, well let’s see, I join November 29th of 2000 so yeah it was just before September 11th even being a concept.

	C:	That’s what I was wondering.



	W:	Yeah I found out about September 11th, like I found the incident itself at my very first base when we were—we had just finished with our newcomers training. We had gone through the orientation for being an Airman in a new base and we’re just going through the training for our particular squadron as a group of new Airman. We went through that training, when we were done we were all going back to our respective shops and once I got in my shop I saw people were kind of freaked out and looked like their eyes were glued to the TV and that’s when I started to see one aircraft had already hit one of the towers and then I saw the other one actually fly into the tower on TV. I mean…you’re seeing these things





falling off the building, some of it you think is just falling off the building then later on we’re finding out people are jumping out of the building cause yeah.

	C:	And where were you? You said…



	W:	Oh my first base was Warner Robins, Georgia. C:	Oh okay.

	W:	Yeah, Robins Air Force Base.



	C:	Okay and where did you have your basic training?



	W:	My basic training was at Lackland and then after Lackland my technical school was in Sheppard, Sheppard Air Force Base.

	C:	And what kind of work did you do?



	W:	Oh yeah, we skipped over that part. So, my career field is—or was aircraft electrical and environmental systems. So, I worked on aircraft as far as the electrical systems within it but also when they talk about environmental that’s referring to the cabin pressurization, that sort of thing. I feel compelled to give examples from looking at the aircraft over with Chappie James, but like the cockpit right there, of course he’s gonna have different things going on as a far as life support so a lot my job was making sure in addition to the electrical components within that are working well, I would also be looking at things like the oxygen system and there’s like a mixture of oxygen and nitrogen that’s—in any case you’re looking at the different systems as far as like what’s in the different systems as far as what’s in the aircraft and of course those gonna vary depending on if you’re looking on a fighter in this instance or like cargo plane for instance. Like that one would have more of the life support systems where you’re





gonna have a large liquid oxygen tank or like yeah a liquid oxygen tank and there would possibly be nitrogen and different things going on.

	C:	Wow, that’s a lot of skills like electrical and mechanical, [inaudible 28:45] life support that’s…

	W:	They kind of slid it off more like there’s a specific one as far as life support where it’s actually under that banner of life support for those but it’s like the way that they split it off for E&E which was what we were called Electrical and Environmental. It’s just like…the primary parts were the electrical portion, it’s just like…when I was working back shop a lot of it had to do with checking on the batteries and making sure the cells in the batteries were good, changing out ones that were deteriorated to the point that we could no longer cycle them back up.

Not a lot with the generators cause they kind of split that off to be a separate career field as well. Just like any of the components that needed—well not any— but like a lot components that needed repairs, a bunch of cool repairs in the back shop a lot of time people would send components our way and then we would just take a look to see what’s going on, testing out if it’s an issue with the wiring or if there’s even—sometimes there are big component that we could fix ourselves and other times there will be components where if the manufacturer was still making them we could send that part to them and receive a new component and that sort of thing. I don’t know it kind of varies there’s a lot of different stuff, they would have a group of us out there in what was called the launch truck. So, you go to the flight line and you’ve got your accessories flight which consisted of you’d have your ammunition people, you’d also have your





E&E, you’d have your avionics, your engines crew as well as sometimes the crew chief would be there for a little while we’re waiting for a particular aircraft to come back or while were waiting for it to go out. The crew chief would primarily be out there for like the launch and the recovery like actually there from when it’s coming down. So, sometimes they would be us for a little while depending on how things were going and a lot of it was really just waiting for an aircraft to take of successfully and hoping to not have what they called, a red ball. A red ball was when there was a significant issue with the aircraft, state said we had to go out and take a look at it before it can take off and you really hope and pray that the issue was being encountered by your particular aircraft wasn’t something that was gonna cause it to be grounded for the day. You got of kudos if you could fix something on the spot before it could take off so your aircraft didn’t miss a mission, that and like I don’t know. There was a lot in terms of that then there was a lot in terms of the fact that is was such a male dominated career field, there was a lot of times spent listening to the most disgusting stories like absolutely, incredibly disgusting. [Sigh] I’ve learned so much slang for different sexual positions and disgusting uses of female bodies that I could probably write a dictionary on the subject.

	C:	How many women were on your crew? And how many were in the—is it a squadron?

	W:	As far as squadron itself I don’t know overall… C:	I’m sorry I don’t know the terms.





	W:	Yeah, that’s okay…so, in my particular shop, the very first shop that I was in, I was the only female for probably about two years.

	C:	And how many men?



	W:	Let’s see…six or seven, wait let me see, I have to go through names really quickly, sorry…actually I think it was eight or nine, including our shop chief, I believe. We later merged with the guard unit that was there and that’s how things sort of started to shift like we had a—before we merged there was another young lady, I still keep in contact with her now mostly via Facebook, but she joined…she was there for probably about six months then we got another female on so we ended up having at one point two Black females and one White female and those were around the same time that were also taking in the guard unit as well but I don’t think there was any females in the guard unit, there weren’t. So, it’s just—oh gosh how many people did it end up being? So, it was their active— what’s the term for it in the guard when you’re…the people that are there every day, they’re not really active, is it active guard? Or active reserve? I think that might be the term but that ones that were working there every day on the base.

	C:	Okay.



W:  So, we merged with them so we didn’t really see the—well every now and then you know cause there’s two weeks a year that you see the traditional reserves come in and traditional guardsmen so it would kind of fluctuate in terms of how many people but…

C:  Yeah, I was thinking about the sexual violence that you mentioned in Stone Mountain, Georgia and then being in the Air Force being exposed to it again in





terms of just the slang you mentioned, how many Black males in the crew? Was it a predominately White?

	W:	It was predominately White but initially it started when I was back shop…See, my supervisor was Black, there was one, two, three! There was a total of three Black males actually that were there…actually, I think the mixture wasn’t like not that skewed before we merged with the guard. So, I think there were like three Black males then one guy was I don’t know if he was Hispanic or Latinx or of Hispanic descent, and let’s see one, two, three, and then the shop chief. Now I have the exact number it’s eight! Ha, Ha, Ha okay sorry I don’t always think about everybody that was there but yeah there was a total of eight of us all together. As far as…I don’t know if any of the other women that I worked with dealt with anything in terms of sexual assault, as far as I know they didn’t. I was very close with the one young lady that I speak with now and I’m still close to. I think that given the range of things of things that we’ve talked about by this point she would’ve told me if something had happened but I know that for me there was an incident and…it was like…like I’m not gonna go through any specifics but ultimately…he knew that the encounter that we had was wrong and at the same time it was situation where I wasn’t twenty-one yet so my hands were kind of tied in the sense, figuratively speaking, in the sense of being able to speak up because then I would’ve had to explain why I consumed alcohol underage and it would’ve created all kinds of other issues.

	C:	So, you could’ve gotten in trouble for— W:	For underage drinking





	C:	—reporting it?



	W:	Yeah, cause I’m certain they would’ve asked and at that point even though he was of age and it still would’ve been something more for him I suppose. There’s still the fact that like…there’s this whole thing that they—at least while I was in— that they said that perception is reality and, on my part,, there was a lot of fear in terms of how I would be perceived. I already knew that being fairly outspoken, having a certain level of confidence in myself as a woman was not necessarily that people really liked…

	C:	When you said, you spoke up, were you vocal or...? Cause one of my questions was what was it like being around all this slang and wondering if you were the only female exposed to that? Or what was that like and how did you handle that?

	W:	I feel like I had to pick my battles. There were certain things that I just—whether I was right or wrong—I felt that if I spoke up too much about the particular brand of conversation or particular dialogue that was going on…I felt like I probably wouldn’t have been welcomed to work on the flight line cause starting out I was in the back shop and there has always been this rivalry between working in the back shop versus working on the flight line. So, even though you have what people call a real job in the Air Force because you’re not in an administrative capacity or working behind a desk, there’s still this stigma that if what you’re doing doesn’t cause you to sweat or get dirty that you don’t have real job and you’re not a real maintainer. I felt like if I had spoken up too much about the things that people really wanted to talk about then I probably wouldn’t be welcomed to be there and that I more than likely would’ve had to be stuck by





myself doing things in the office. Again, whether it was right or wrong that’s the impression that I got. The ironic part is when I first got to that base I was told by the first sergeant that I should be comfortable, that if I ever had any problems, I mean he would consistently come over and see how I was doing and ask me if anything was wrong and at that point nothing was…everyone knows it was weird just because…having…having a sense of or at least attempting to have a sense of bodily autonomy. I think that’s thing that people really didn’t appreciate from me.

	C:	When you say bodily autonomy, how all do you mean that?



	W:	I just mean like in a sense of…the double standard as far as…if men were talking their particular conquest so to speak that was definitely praised and everyone wanted to join in with their banter. If I expressed in any way something similar or even exactly the same, even if I was just joking…well perception is reality so…My experience with maintenance in Air Force taught me…I developed the capacity to be extremely quiet even under extreme duress that’s what would say ultimately taught me like…I could genuinely despise the people that I worked with and still keep a straight face and smile.

	C:	Was it hard learn how do that?



	W:	After everything that had happened with that one guy that I worked with I would go to work and then I would spend my evenings just crying…as long as I was able to find a way to get my emotions out, I was okay so…

	C:	And did you have people to talk to about it?





	W:	My best friend at the time Candice, she was very very supportive. We hung out a lot and she listened. I think she’s honestly like…if I didn’t have her I don’t know what I would’ve done so…

	C:	And she was enlisted with you or working with you?



W:  Yeah, she worked in a adjacent shop, the aerospace ground equipment so when we needed stuff she was one of the people that would drive out to an aircraft and make sure certain things were there so…

	C:	And did you talk to anyone else about it or just her? Was she like a confidant or…?

	W:	At one point, I briefly brought it up to another coworker and then it wasn’t taken very seriously and I think the other person just kind of assumed it wasn’t really any of their business so that’s as far as that went so…

	C:	And how long have you been enlisted before that happen?



	W:	…I’m not really sure, I don’t actually…remember the date…I know it’s early on into my time there.

	C:	Okay so, you had a year after that?



	W:	Yeah, [inaudible 47:19] at my first base for like half of my enlistment so out of six years I spent like three there at Warner Robins and to be honest it’s just like there was a lot that was going on at that time. I remember that—this how I learned what being Black Flagged was but we were on what was called Black Flagged on the cover of Air Force Times, my entire base was, where they were saying like what’s going on at Robins. In fact, I think that’s what the headlines said, what’s going on at Robins cause around…so we had merged with the guard





and I remember there was this guy that I worked with and there was a double homicide on base, in base housing and this guy that I worked with in—not really the shop but—well one of the aircraft that we worked was—it was known the J- STAR the EAC and so it had to be guarded at all time at that particular point in time. In any case, I remember seeing this guy, we would talk but very briefly because we both smoked in—I think I might of seen him when I went out to my smoke breaks, I just remembered there were definitely time where I walked past him and I would make it a point to just say hello. But I didn’t really know who he was until after the fact of he killed a husband and wife and then the attempted murder of somebody else that had been at the house as well. I don’t know what exactly happened as far as why, there were a lot of rumors that circulated as far as different types of swapping parties or whatever, I have no idea if that’s true. All I know is that there was a lot of different things that were going very badly all at the same time at the same base.

	C:	Wow



	W:	That’s Warner Robins



	C:	Yeah, and where did you go after that?



	W:	After that I went to Kunsan in Korea and that one was definitely better.



Interestingly enough Candace was also there, she was station at Kunsan cause I actually I got to go to my first two bases with my best friend so.

	C:	That’s nice and Kunsan, did you also say you served in Afghanistan?



	W:	Yeah, I was deployed…so I was deployed to—I didn’t say Afghanistan but Al Udeid [Air Base] in some people pronounce it Qatar [Qa-ter] and some people





pronounce it Qatar [Qu-tar], Q-U-T-A-R, that’s how it’s spelled. I didn’t really see a whole lot there fortunately, I guess that’s the area where my decision in terms of how I made my decision about where to be during war times. Thankfully, I took some time with that one cause in maintenance, we weren’t gonna see a whole lot, the only things that I did actually see that bothered me was just they liked to show us these videos after the fact of what had been blown up so…it’s nowhere near as bad as like some of the things my little sister experienced in the army or what a lot of people have experienced to actual live combat. I just know that I am responsible for deaths, I just don’t know who and I don’t how many. Like I know I helped put aircraft in the air and their main focus was, especially with fighters, their focus was…well killing people so there’s that and then given I don’t know when people would be listening this but if they’re familiar with at what the J-STAR or E-8C does or what I can see, then I don’t see how to reconcile the idea of having that much information and being cool with the fact that—I know that all of it was used to save people, it just doesn’t logically make sense for all of it to been used to save people or maybe the keys was were they the right type of people.

	C:	When you say it doesn’t make sense it was used to save people, is that what sort of official?

	W:	Well, I know we provided ground support to other branches of the military as a far as the army and stuff and I recall people talking to me about them being thankful like when we were in Qatar, people being thankful about the fact our particular aircraft was there to provide support when they needed it. I guess what I’m referring to is like when I remember seeing images of buildings being blown up,





I’m just wondering to what extent did they…I’m wondering to what extent what was able to be perceived from aerial view, how much of that was used in the decision-making process about actually bombing certain targets.

	C:	Yeah…yeah, they’re so much in your narrative about the social climate, working with your peers, and then the military attacks. There’s like the social violence and there’s the military violence, I’m wondering when you reflect back on it…I mean is it some days some of the memories are strongest and other days’ other memories are strongest.

	W:	There were times when it was like that and mostly it was like that as far as…I guess it’s not as...there’s some things in my life that I’ve dealt with where the thoughts can be intrusive and pervasive…As far as with…I just mostly feel guilty…about…just taking part in something that I understand now to be an essential aspect of White supremacy…

	C:	Did you have those feeling while you were stationed and while you were enlisted, did that come about with reflection afterward?

	W:	It came about with reflection…I guess it’s again why I wonder what would’ve happened if I had just been able to go to college…There’s a lot that I didn’t really learn about myself until later and I just…I didn’t understand what I was doing.

	C:	And just to remind you we can turn the recorder off or take a break at any time, whatever you’re comfortable.

	W:	It’s fine, they don’t talk enough about the things that are difficult…It’s fine, it really is.





	C:	When I’m thinking about your experience, moving to Stone Mountain, Georgia and adjusting to the culture there and then adjusting to the culture in the Air Force and thinking about your childhood experience of the police arrived on the scene and you’re accused, you’re kind of on the hot seat and adapting in Stone Mountain, Georgia there’s this thread through your narrative and I wonder in the culture in the Air Force I don’t know…like you said, you’re afraid wouldn’t be promoted if you brought it out or reported it or you would be putting yourself at risk essentially for asking for protection and do you know how common that type of dynamic or have you spoken with others who served and have had that same experience with fear of reporting?

	W:	I haven’t spoken with other female veterans as far as that. I know that walking away from it or looking at things now and discussing other aspects of the work environment…I can’t imagine…I can’t imagine people not being afraid to speak up. Even if they were what would be considered the perfect victim I don’t…I can see them being very fearful of…and of course there are varying degrees just depending on where you are on different bases, there was never for me a fear violence but there are things people can do and say that can be just as terrifying…I mean where social creatures, we don’t want to be isolated and alone and sometimes isolation can feel like it’s the worse thing in the world so…

	C:	Yeah, yeah, and the basic training was it a real strong sense of camaraderie and there’s a sense of that would be broken so sort more heighten than just civilian life or more heighten sense of camaraderie that would be—





	W:	Definitely a heighten sense of camaraderie [Laughter] I think it was War Week I think they called it just before you’re basically done, you have a buddy just for going to the bathroom like you can’t go anywhere without your buddy and it doesn’t have to be this one specific buddy, but you better find one, it doesn’t matter if you’re, like in my instance, sick and it’s three o’clock in the morning and you really need to use the bathroom. Either suck it up and find somebody that’s willing to go with you or be really careful in how you then get to the restroom like you…

	C:	Why’d you have to be careful?



	W:	‘Cause I didn’t want to get washed back to the started of training. So, depending on who you ran into when you were—like whatever I guess T.I.s or whatever were observing and checking on things throughout your time there. I mean I’ve heard of people getting washed back to the beginning for—oh gosh—I believe one instance was having candy cause there’s certain food items and stuff you can’t have. So, having certain food items…what were some other…actually even in one instance getting sick because this person had to go to sick hall and they ended up needed to, like they were sick, they needed to have the time to have their body recuperate and feel better so I mean it kind of—they don’t say to do this, they would never actually say it out loud but they definitely let you know that you’re not able to finish any part of your training and if it’s not for a reasons where they’re not gonna want you to stay in the military then you’re starting over. The worse thing in the world for people is have to start over because you start





with a group of people and I don’t know why it’s the worse thing in the world for some people, I guess…it’s probably a whole lot of brainwashing.

	C:	During the War Week, was it particularly intense that the buddy aspect that was the primary aspect of the War Week? Or what was the War Week like?

	W:	So, that was the week where—I’m really thinking back on it now so silly—but that was the week and you go through and you do, I think we actually ate MREs [Meal Ready-to-Eat] that week and it was basically just an introduction to I guess their representation of what we should expect in a war time scenario. Which is still kind of ridiculous cause I don’t know anybody in the—I didn’t know a time where in the Air Force where I was forced to eat a MRE, that never happened other than War Week. I guess everybody wants their branch to be the toughest and so they got to find someway that there can be this really rough and just tough aspect of training that is comparable to the Army, or the Navy, or Marine or any other branch even though we’re the one branch that, to be honest, if you see Air Man that are armed and actually looking to fight a war in terms of hand-to- hand combat, we already lost so anyway at least that’s my perspective on it. I would be worried so…

	C:	Did you have that perspective at the time or did that come with reflection?



	W:	That came with reflection. I think I was just very young, I didn’t understand a lot, I wasn’t as well read and I again I was at that point where I was starting to challenge certain things but I still hadn’t had like that ability to really freely challenge as much as not necessarily I wanted to but really needed to. I think in some ways or a lot of ways, my time in the Air Force forced me to look at things a





lot deeply and more critically. So, in that sense it wasn’t a waste, but I think we’re smart enough as human beings to find a less traumatic ways to welcome young people into adulthood.

	C:	I’m just going to—



	[Interview got cut short do to scheduling conflict according to DOG] Transcribed by:	Omar Sanchez, February 16, 2021

	Audit-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, February 16, 2021 Final-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, February 22, 2021