AAHP 288; Towns; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 288 Cornelius Towns African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Marna Weston on November 25, 2012 24 minutes | 15 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 288

Interviewee: Cornelius Towns Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: November 25, 2012



	W:	This is Marna Weston from the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program, on November 25th, 2012, at Greater New Hope Missionary Baptist Church in Bland, Florida, on South County Road 241. I’m interviewing Mr. Cornelius Towns, associated with the A.L. Mebane homecoming closing ceremonies that were held here today. Mr. Towns, thank you very much for agreeing to the interview.

	T:	Thank you. What you want to know? W:	When and where were you born?

	T:	Reynolds, Georgia. September 11th, 1929. W:	What county is Reynolds in?

	T:	That’s Taylor County. W:	Taylor County?

	T:	Yeah.



	W:	Where, if you were looking at Georgia—if a person’s hand was Georgia—what part would Reynolds and Taylor County be in?

	T:	That would be up in the west, in that’s going southwest Georgia. W:	Okay, next to Albany, Randolph County area?

	T:	Yeah, where you come back up, mmhm. Reynolds between Albany and Peach County.

	W:	Who are your mother and father?



	T:	My momma’s Naomi Bryan. Father, unknown. W:	And when was your mother born?

	T:	Let me see now; she was born in December the 12th, 1910.





	W:	How about her mother and father? What do you know about her— T:	I don’t know nothing, I don’t know about them.

	W:	Do you have brothers and sisters? T:	One sister.

	W:	Can you state her name? T:	Sarah Cross.

	W:	And is she still— T:	Deceased.

	W:	Deceased.



	T:	Mmhm, another brother deceased.



	W:	Could you list your brothers and sisters in order of birth?



	T:	My brother was the youngest child. He died—he live only two years. Which, he was born in [19]32, died in [19]34.

	W:	What was his name?



	T:	Richard. Richard Towns.



	W:	Why was coming to the A.L. Mebane reunion important for you? And do you come every year?

	T:	No, because I had a friend was supposed to be here. That we was, that I’ve known through boyhood, we went to school together and played football together. And, after we went to the Korean War, they departed each ways, and I haven’t seen him since in about forty years, fifty years, mmhm. That’s what my purpose coming here today.

	W:	Anticipate that he was going to be here today, perhaps?





	T:	That’s what I was told, mmhm.



	W:	What was your first memory of education?



	T:	My first memory of education was when I—Mrs. Welch, I used to didn’t like to read. And, she the one taught me the purpose of reading. With that ruler in her hand: every time you miss a word, she’d hit you in the hand with it. Which she’s still living today, mmhm. Her and Mr. Welch.

	W:	Where was that school that you went to located and what was the name of that school?

T:  Alachua County Training School. It’s up on the—I can’t tell you the name, but it’s where the parade come by, where the Hitchcock, that subdivision up there, that’s where is. Mmhm.

	W:	What grades did you go to at that school? T:	From one to twelve.

	W:	And how big was that school, how many students would you say went there? T:	It was twelve. It was from—everything was in there from first to twelve.

	W:	Would you say it was a hundred students? Two hundred students? Three hundred? Less?

	T:	Maybe about three hundred, mmhm.



	W:	That school doesn’t exist anymore. So, when did it close? T:	In [19]56.

	W:	Who was the principal? T:	C.O. Whitfield.

	W:	And, did Principal Whitfield also teach classes?





T:  No, he was the—no, he didn’t teach classes. That’s all he done, principalship. W:  So when you left Alachua County Training School, then you went to Mebane? T:   We all was in the same building; you didn’t have to go nowhere. [Laughter]

W:  Oh, okay. So what was it, the middle school was called the training school? T:   In the same, on the same campus there. Right.

	W:	Okay so who was your favorite teacher in the early part of it, before you got to the high school part of it? Who was your favorite teacher and what subjects did you like?

	T:	I likeded history, which was taught by Maude Lewis. And in fact, she’s got her property, it’s a park in Alachua named in her honor right across from where the old school used to be. She gave her property to the city of Alachua. That was, I learned history from her, mmhm. I always liked history, because it was during the World War II, I likeded to read about the war. We didn’t have TVs then. And my mom took the Times Union so I could read about the war in the Pacific and in Germany. That’s where my interests come from about the history part.

	W:	Now, when you got to the high school part of it, did the classes get more difficult, was it more of a social change? What would you say was the difference between the lower school part, eighth grade, and then the upper school part after ninth grade?

	T:	Really, the change didn’t start until I got in tenth grade. It’s all the same to me.



Listening wasn’t hard, but the teachers taught different than they do today, see? The child was a slow learner, they had four classes in the classroom: A, B, C, and D. No child want to be in the D; so she would let the A and B students, she





would teach to the two lowest classes, and let the other students do homework in the classroom. That’s why it should be like that today. They would help the one needed it, that’s what to me it was. They would help the one that really needed it, mmhm. And we had a lot of folks, if one was slow, in a couple of years they was right up there with us.

	W:	So, do you feel that the schools then had more of a focus on remedial to bring everybody else up, and now a student can flounder on their own?

	T:	Right, mmhm.



	W:	Why do you think that change happened from the way school used to be then to how it is now?

	T:	Because I had—I got six children, and I monitored them going to school. Which, the situation is different.

	W:	Could you list your children from oldest to youngest?



	T:	Kenneth, my oldest son; Velda, my oldest daughter; Richard, my son; then my son Tim; then my son Michael; and then I got another daughter, Denise.

	W:	And how did you meet their mother?



	T:	I met their mother in Jacksonville. During the time we was travelling, I was going to Chicago to live with my uncle, and I saw her at the train station. That’s how we met. And I met her in Jacksonville, and she passed in Jacksonville—which was this year.

	W:	Oh I’m very sorry for your loss. What was your wife’s name?



	T:	Odell. Her middle name was Wilma. She didn’t like that name, we used to call her Odell.





	W:	So, how long were you all married and had a family together? How many years? T:	Sixty-two years.

	W:	Can you say that number again? T:	Sixty-two.

	W:	Okay, so, sixty-two years. T:	Right.

	W:	That’s a long time, a lot of memories! T:	Sixty-two years.

	W:	Is there a particular memory that maybe is not so private you wouldn’t say it in public, but something that you want to say to just to demonstrate your feeling for your wife? For someone maybe listening to this later on that didn’t know her, how would you describe your life together?

	T:	I describe my wife was a—she was a beautiful lady. In fact, the first time I saw her, it wasn’t, you know, like love at first sight. Because we only talked, because we was getting on different trains. And we went across the street, and I bought her a bite to eat. She caught her train, I caught mine. But some kind of way, we got back—I didn’t like Chicago, so I came back to Alachua. So, she came back about the same time I did. Then we started dating, in August of [19]49. And that’s history right there with her.

	W:	What was it that brought you all together here locally? Because you can know somebody somewhere else and still see them and not, you know, still see each other. So, what was it that got you all dating in August of 1949?





	T:	You know, when I saw her she was with her sister, and her sister was from where I had come from on the train. And the [inaudible 10:34]. And she and her sister—because she said, “I know you from—you Ms. Naomi’s son!” Just like that. I say, “Yeah.” And that’s how I met my baby. I always called her my baby; I met her then. I didn’t know it then, but it happened. We married in [19]51, mmhm.

	W:	So, two years, then you’re married. Where did you live after you got married?



	T:	We lived in Alachua. Then I went in the Army; I stayed in the Army six and half years.

	W:	Now how did you get into the Army? Were you drafted, did you volunteer? T:	Drafted.

	W:	Can you talk about that being drafted part?



	T:	Being drafted? Being, usually it’s a couple of years. And, at that time, we done twenty-one months. If you went to Korea, you done twenty-one months, you was out. And onliest thing I can say today: I’m’s a veteran, and I’m criticizing the constitutional United States, uh-huh, how the War Department run this, but they should stop sending these men back into combat, in situations that—Iraq—.

Because I was in a combat unit in Korea. And I know what they going through; what I went through. Hardship, freezing, being shot at, running half of the time. And I see why these guys committing suicide, and something ought to be done about that.

W:  Do you think—are you saying it’s difficult to change from a combat situation to normal civilian life, you need time to adjust?

T:   Exactly. It is.





	W:	What should they do to help veterans that come from those situations adjust?



	T:	Oh, one time, when President Truman’ wife—which was Bess Truman—she want us to be, after we left Korea would go to Okinawa and stay there two or three months to adjust to get to come back to the ZI. But that didn’t never happen.

	W:	But that’s the kind of idea you would support? T:	That’s right, mmhm.

	W:	So now, you joined the Army— T:	Drafted.

	W:	You were drafted, after the Army integrated? T:	I was in it when it integrated.

	W:	What was that like? Was it still sort of segregated? What was it like joining the Army that soon after the integration took place?

	T:	The Army is still segregated, but it’s in a different way. It’s open. Well at that time, the—we called it the “Black GI,” slept in a different barracks than the White. We ate separate in the mess hall, and the unit that I trained with in Fort Leonard Wood, which was D-battery, which had A and B company—A, B, C. Abel, Bacon; White: Charlie, Dog; Black. They went to Italy in Europe. C and D went to Korea. That’s all I got to say on that.

	W:	When you were in Korea, were you ever in a situation when you were fearful for your life, and could you describe that?

	T:	Every day you was over there. See, I was in a combat unit. The unit I served in was the—you might be familiar with it—was the Thirty-Seventh Infantry Division,





which one of the unit I served in, the Thirty-first, was also in the death march in the Philippine Islands in [19]41 or [19]42.

	W:	The famous Bataan Death March?



	T:	That’s right, it’s the unit I served in. The Thirty-first Infantry Regiment, known as the Polar Bears. That unit carried all that information; they formed a guard and everything. That they was—they’d have—and so when the Korean War broke out, they formed the Seventh, which the Seventh was in World War II. But they had to reactivate it, so they put different regiments: Seventeenth, Thirty-Second, and Thirty-First.

	W:	What was your job? What did you do? T:	Machine gun.

	W:	Were you good at it?



	T:	I guess I was! [Laughter] That’s all I can tell you about that.



	W:	So you knew how to break it down? Could you describe the weapon that you used?

	T:	It’s 30-caliber, air-cooled, water-cooled. Then you got two sets of machine guns. You got the air-cooled, and the water-cooled. The air-cooled gots a little jackets, like; little holes in it. But the water-cooled, it takes water to keep the barrel from getting hot and freezing—you know, melting them.

	W:	So, you learned how to be efficient with the weapon? T:	That’s what they trained you for.

	W:	Was it a one-person operated, or two-person operated?





	T:	You got the first assistant gunner—the gunner, the assistant gunner, and four ammo bearers.

	W:	Okay, so, six men. T:	Six men.

	W:	What was the weight of the weapon? T:	Maybe about eighty-five pounds.

	W:	So on the run, you’d have to take it with you?



	T:	Had to take it with you. See, because we had to move—the gunner would take the gun, and the assistant gunner would take the tripod.

	W:	Who was your commanding officer?



	T:	My commanding officer was Jim Lements, when I was over the Thirty-seventh. W:	And how about your lieutenant?

	T:	I can remember Lieutenant Knapp, Lieutenant Peterson—which was a good combat man. And he always trained us to just watch out for yourself, but he was a good leader. I cannot name all the people, because I stayed on almost seven years. I just couldn’t tell you, but I remember my combat officers.

	W:	Now, one person nobody ever forgets is their first instruction drill sergeant. Who was that person?

	T:	That would be Sergeant Phillip.



	W:	And why is it that you still remember Sergeant Phillip today? Because you went right to—your face, you know him. So, why is it you remember?

	T:	Sergeant Phillip was in—he dropped during the Normandy invasion, the 508 Airborne Infantry Regiment, which I was a paratrooper too. And in fact, he was





captured in World War II when he come out the plane. But he was a good leader, mmhm.

	W:	So why do you remember him?



	T:	He was always, you know, tell us to be on your Ps and Qs. Try to do you a favor. W:	So was he one of those cussing drill sergeants, or was he—?

	T:	He was a religious man. But I’ll say, I didn’t have a Black officer; I served only White.

	W:	How did you end your service? Honorable discharge? How’d you end all that? T:	Mmhm.

	W:	I mean they told you “this is it,” you came back to America? How’d you rotate out?

	T:	No, I got out because my wife didn’t want to come to Japan. See, I had stayed— in fact, that’s why I reenlist. I reenlist for twenty-four months, but I reenlist after I come back out, couldn’t get no job. And she didn’t want to come, so I said—you know what I mean? I loved her, I had to make a choice. It was her or the Army. I see how these dependent, because I’m in a dependent town where, in Jacksonville, where they got this Navy and all that, and how these people have to go leave their families and things.

	W:	But you know, when you look at history, they talk about how it was the GI Bill, and there was all this housing they built in the [19]50s. You didn’t get advantage of any of those programs when you got out?

	T:	No, I tried to get a GI loan and build a house; they turned me down, say I wasn’t making enough money.





	W:	Even though you were a veteran? T:	That’s it.

	W:	Do you think it was the money, or do you think it’s because you were not a White soldier?

	T:	Exactly. You know, just be truthful about it.



	W:	And did you hear that same kind of thing happen with other Black soldiers as well?

	T:	I can’t remember but one Black soldier ever building a home; it was Mr. Welch, right there in Alachua. That’s the onliest one I know of.

	W:	I want to go back to high school a second: what clubs and activities were you involved in when you were at Mebane?

	T:	Football and basketball.



	W:	Ok, what was your favorite? T:	Basketball.

	W:	What position did you play? You look like a two or a three! [Laughter] T:	Yes I shoot the ball, mmhm.

	W:	If you got the ball, they didn’t come back out? [Laughter] T:	I got a son just like me; he can shoot. Mmhm, yes sir.

	W:	Don’t like to pass? [Laughter] T:	No, let me knock it down.

	W:	Who was the coach?



	T:	Mr. Green, English Green. W:	English Green.





	T:	Mmhm.



	W:	And what was Mr. Green’s coaching philosophies? T:	To win!

	W:	[Laughter] Did you all run? Did you concentrate on defense?



	T:	Like the fun and gun. You pull it down—when they shoot and miss, we tried to get to court down in our end as fast as we could. That’s the philosophy of basketball; ain’t no other way.

	W:	Who were your rivals?



	T:	Lincoln High in Gainesville, Richardson High in Lake City, and—in sports in general? Central Academy in—

	W:	Palatka.



	T:	Palatka. Hastings.



	W:	I heard y’all scuffled it up with RJE over in Starke a little bit.



	T:	I played basketball against them, but that’s the only memory I can think of.



	W:	Now normally, I understand it, when you do this reunion, you usually have a basketball game against RJE. But y’all didn’t do that this year. Do you know why that happened?

	T:	I don’t know. Now, I never went to one when I lived near here. But some kind of way, I told my son last week that I wanted to come to one. And I talked to somebody yesterday, he say, “You know, Mr. Towns, you stayed and you never attended one.” But this one, I just wanted come to.

	W:	So this is your first one?





	T:	Right, mmhm. Because when I was lived over here I didn’t think about it, to be honest with you.

	W:	What was your most successful basketball season?



	T:	We used to have the county tournament. From [19]48 to [19]49, we never lost a basketball game. We the county champs. Playing Lincoln; Douglass in High Springs. In Archer community, and in Hawthorne—Shell. We never lost a game.

	W:	Did you ever play Live Oak, or Perry, or any of them? T:	We played Live Oak and Perry in football.

	W:	How did that turn out?



	T:	In fact, when Live Oak got they team, we used to practice with them. That was in [19]49. That’s when Live Oak got a football team. But that’s as far as I want to go in the interview, and I thank you, you know, for listening to me. What you doing here—since my wife passed, I’m writing a book about her now. With the good life I had with her.

	W:	Well, I wish you the best with your book. On behalf of our oral history program, I thank you. I would say that would conclude our interview, except what I normally do is, I’m quiet at this time and I give you the final privilege as the interviewee. So any comment you have about the interview, or anything you’d like to talk about.

	And when you get done talking, that’ll conclude the interview T:	That’s it. I’m through. Thank you.

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Cristina Rodriguez, February 10, 2017





	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, March 23, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 23, 2019