AAHP 122; Miller and Miller; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 122 James Miller and Michele Miller African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on September 3, 2010 9 minutes | 7 pages



Abstract: This interview was conducted at the 2010 Black Alumni Weekend at the University of Florida. James and Michele Miller discuss some of their respective family histories; they met and married in Atlanta. It is Mrs. Miller’s first time attending Black Alumni Weekend, but Mr. Miller, the alum of the two, is attending for his third time and speaks about his experiences going to UF.





Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida]

























































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 122

Interviewee: James Miller and Michelle Miller Interviewer: Marna Weston

Date: September 3, 2010



	W:	This is Marna Weston with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program, at Emerson— MM:	Sam Proctor?

	W:	Not that Sam—you’re talking about Sam D. Proctor from A&T? JM:	I was here when he came in—Sam Taylor.

	W:	Oh yeah, Sam Taylor was here last year. I don’t know if he’s going to be here this year, but Eugene Pettis will be here, who was the first Black student body treasurer.

	JM:	He may have been a year after we started. W:	He was the treasurer in [19]81.

	JM:	Yeah, after we started. Pettis is going to be the keynote, one of the speakers tomorrow, right?

	W:	Yes, yes, he is. Well, could you say who you are please? JM:	James Miller and Michelle Miller.

	MM:	Michelle Miller.



	W:	Okay, great. And where are you from?



	JM:	Right now, we live in Lithonia, Georgia, suburb of Atlanta. W:	Okay, how far is that from Atlanta?

	JM:	Fifteen miles. Yeah, so.



	M:	Well now, I promised I’d walk you to your car, so I will if you’d like to. What brings you to Black Alumni Weekend this year?





	JM:	It’s a great event. This is my third visit down here for it. Love the campus, love the school. I’m looking forward to a good weekend, good football game, good fellowship; lot of good things. So, it’s always good coming back to Gainesville.

	W:	What kind of memories do you have about Gainesville that make it good for you?



	JM:	Very positive memories about Gainesville. I met some great folk, great fraternity brothers here. I had very memorable times, both developmentally, educationally. I met some great contacts that have benefited me throughout life in Gainesville. So, it’s been a fantastic experience, one that I’m proud of for a lot of reasons. I got a great education here. It’s helped me to be who I am right now. I grew up here both physically, as well as emotionally and mentally. So, it’s been a great town.

	W:	You mentioned a fraternity; would you mention your organization? JM:	Yes; Kappa Alpha Psi, Inc.

	W:	And why that organization?



	JM:	Well we were the first Black Greek organization on campus here. We started in 1972. Chartered. So, we were the first Black Greek organization here. So, that in and of itself is historic. It’s been a great experience here.

	W:	As you decided to come—well, first, what brought you to the University of Florida?

	JM:	They recruited at my high school in Orlando. I’m from Orlando, that’s home.



Unfortunately I was not there the day they came. But friends I went to high school with told me about it. So, I went ahead and applied, and luckily I was accepted.





	W:	Now, who came down to recruit you? Was it Dr. Boatwright? Was it someone different?

	JM:	I’m not quite sure. Again, I was not at that meeting when they came to campus that day. But I did get some literature, and I went ahead and applied. So, I knew very little about the school at that time. There were several other members of my class that started with me here. In fact, a lady who I grew up with, and have known since I guess the first grade, or second grade, she also attended. She and several other classmates came here. So, I was not alone when I came. It was a great time, and a great decision on my part.

	W:	The motto this year is, “Building a strong foundation for the Gator Nation”. How do you feel that being here this weekend helps build upon that motto?

	JM:	I guess it helps because, again, I started in [19]71 here. So, I’m one of the older, if not the oldest, graduate here. But it helps for older people to come back, to show where they are in life, talk positively about the university, talk positively about the things they have lived to achieve as a result. Plus, talk positively about not the school, but the relationships. Because that’s generally what universities— I mean, you get a great education, but it also helps you to develop as a person.

It’s great in that respect. It does lay the groundwork for what you can become in life. So I think, just off the cuff, I think that explains one of the great benefits. The theme itself is supported by the relationships that you build.

	W:	Could you spell your name please? JM:	James, J-A-M-E-S, Miller, M-I-L-L-E-R.

	W:	And where were you born?





	JM:	I was born, actually, in Columbia, Alabama, but I grew up in Orlando, Florida. W:	And what is the day and date of your birth?

	JM:	Seven, eight, [19]53.



	W:	Who are your mom and dad?



	JM:	My mother is Bernice Miller, my father’s deceased. My mother is still alive and doing well. She still lives in Orlando, and is eighty-two years old. And actually, after we live here on Sunday, we’re going to go down and spend about five days with her.

	W:	On your mother’s side, what do you recall about her parents, your grandparents on her side?

	JM:	The only parent I met was my grandmother. And she was a great influence on our lives—on our family’s life. But she died my junior year in high school.

	W:	And what was her name? JM:	Eloise Foreman.

	W:	What clubs and organizations besides Kappa Alpha Psi, Inc. were you involved with here at the University of Florida?

	JM:	Outside of the fraternity, I can’t think of any other clubs I was involved in. I did the intramural sports in the dorms. But outside of that, I don’t know if there were any other clubs. I don’t recall any other clubs I was a member of.

	W:	And Mrs. Miller, we’ll give you a chance to get a word in. [Laughter] Well, you’re important, too; you’re part of the team! What is your name please?

	MM:	Michelle Miller.



	W:	Your maiden name?





	MM:	Michelle Devane.



	W:	Where are you originally from?



	MM:	North Carolina. Jacksonville, North Carolina. W:	What is your day and date of birth?

	MM:	Twelve-twelve-[19]57.



	W:	And who are your mom and dad?



	MM:	William Devane, and he passed away as well, too. My mother passed away when I was two years old.

	W:	What was her name? MM:	Her name was Ida Marie.

	W:	On your father’s side, who were his parents?



	MM:	His parents were Will Devane—I can’t remember my grandmother’s name for some reason! [Laughter]

	W:	Probably because there’s this huge microphone in your face. [Laughter] And it is big! It’s ridiculous! How about on your mom’s side, who were her parents?

	MM:	I don’t remember, because she passed away when I was two.



	W:	Now, you were not a University of Florida student. How did the two of you meet?



	MM:	One of his main activities is running and working out. And we met at the gym about twelve years ago—maybe fifteen years ago, I’m not sure. [Laughter]

	W:	A gym here in town, or a gym somewhere else? MM:	In Atlanta.

	W:	Do you have children?



	MM:	I have one son. We have three kids together.





	W:	What are their names?



	MM:	James, Jadean, and Jerron. And we’ve got one grandchild.



W:  And what do you think about Black Alumni Weekend here at the University of Florida? You came together, so what is your interest besides supporting your husband?

	MM:	Well, like he said, this is his third time coming, my first time. And the friends that we’re meeting here, that we’ve know, like he said, that he met and grew up with, we’re going to hang out with them. I’m just looking forward to the game and meeting people. We’re just looking forward to the fellowship.

	W:	Okay. Well, thank you both very much for this impromptu interview. I know that you’re rushing and you want to come back. On behalf of the Sam Proctor Oral History Program and Black Alumni Weekend, I want to thank you for your interview. And hopefully, fifty or a hundred years from now when people are listening to this, the contributions will be well-received. I like to close each interview by giving you the opportunity as the person being interviewed to make any closing comment. And when you finish those comments, that’ll conclude the interview.

	JM:	No other comment. Again, I’d like to give some credit to a couple of fraternity brothers of mine: Bernard Cohen, who you’ll hopefully get a chance to interview at some point, and Leonard Spearman. Leonard Spearman was actually a roommate of mine. And he has given a lot back to the University of Florida. He actually served as the Alumni President of the University of Florida. And so, I think him—those two gentlemen, those two men, have done a lot in terms of





inspiring not only me, but also people who have been in a position of meeting them. So, I would like to make sure that they are recognized, always. Whether you talk about graduates, or particularly Black graduates, of the University of Florida, those two gentlemen: Bernard Cohen, and Leonard Spearman.

[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Andre Everett



	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, October 10, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 19, 2019