AAHP 608B; Simms & Simms; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 608B Levon and Nancy Simms African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Julian Valdivia on June 29, 2018 1 hour, 21 minutes | 31 pages





Abstract: In this second interview, Levon and Nancy Simms continue recounting their experiences as two Black people in Lee County, mentioning difficulties and discrimination in their search for an apartment when they were younger, along with demonstrations and their involvement in the NAACP. Together they detail their struggles in finding an apartment following getting married, and how they were not shown apartments because of racist, discriminatory practices by realty offices. Later, when looking to build a home, they encountered similar issues with banks as they searched for a loan to build on a plot of land they already owned. Both educators later became involved with their community via the NAACP. Levon additionally served on the City Council for nine years in an attempt to bring Black businesses back to Martin Luther King Boulevard, among other efforts.



Key words: [African American Studies, education, segregation, integration, NAACP, Fort Myers, Cape Coral, Lee County, Florida history]







































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 608B

Interviewee: Levon Simms & Nancy Kelley Simms Interviewer: Julian Valdivia

Date: June 29, 2018





	V:	This is Julian Valdivia with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. We’re at Roberto Clemente Park with the Lee County Black History Society and this is my second interview with?

	LS:	Levon Simms.



	NS:	Nancy Kelley Simms in Fort Myers, Florida.



	V:	This is a continuation of the last interview we did, which I think was two weeks ago. Where we left off was we were talking about the walkouts at North Fort Myers and how North Fort Myers High changed over time. You were talking about how you helped design the architecture for the new building. I want to start by asking Nancy then what she was doing at this time because I found the yearbook you were teaching at Cape Coral High. To get a sense of timeframe, when Levon started teaching at North Fort Myers High, what were you doing at the time, Nancy?

	NS:	I guess we’ll back up, Julian. Levon actually started teaching [19]68 - [19]69 at Dunbar High School, and then the following year, [19]69-[19]70 is when he went to North High. When he first started working at Dunbar, I was substituting. I actually did not have my four year degree. I did the two years at Edison in a secretarial science program so I started off as I aforestated substituting. In 1969, I went to work at the school board's main office as secretary of the secretary of education department. I used to be able to do all my years and now I can’t get my years straight [Laughter]. I was down there three years.

	V:	You got the year blocked out. There it is.







	NS:	Yeah, [19]71 because that’s when I went to Calusa. In 1971, when Calusa Elementary opened I went there as a secretary. It wasn't until 1979 when Cape Coral High School, I went in on the instructional side but I was never full time in the classroom. I worked in the guidance department doing occupational and career counseling.

	V:	And so — sorry did you have more?



	NS:	No, I was getting ready to try to remember the years of how long I stayed because I was there for like twenty five years.

	V:	What got you into education first off? I know you started substituting but why did you decide to start substituting?

	LS:	Parents.



NS:  [Laughter] You said, “Parents.” [Laughter] No, it was a job. After we got married, we needed money. I was expecting. It was the opportunity there as far as the job opportunity. Like he said, both my mother and my stepfather were educators so I never really wanted to teach, but I ended up in education anyway.

	V:	Is that why you ended up doing more administrative things and with the guidance at Cape Coral High? I didn’t hear it right. What was the year you started at Cape Coral High then? Because I remember you said you went from Calusa to Cape High.

	NS:	[19]78-[19]79 school term.



	V:	At this time, were you already involved with the NAACP? I know you're the treasurer right now.







	NS:	Currently, I’m the treasurer. I really can’t tell you when I originally started working with the NAACP. It was back during Veronica Shoemaker’s term.

	V:	Her first term?



	NS:	I don’t remember. She was a former president of the local NAACP. It had to be [19]70s, [19]80s, somewhere in there.

	V:	Did she take over after Isadore Edwards, or was there someone in between?



	NS:	I can’t tell you that either. I’d have to go back and look at the records in the office.



I thought it was somewhere after that because after Isadora Edwards, that’s when Davies, right?

	LS:	I’m not sure. At that particular time there was so much turmoil going on. NS:	Right because Isadora would have been during the [19]60s.

	LS:	Yeah, probably the [19]60s.



	V:	He left in [19]71 or [19]72 from what I read, but you guys weren’t involved then? NS:	No, I wasn’t but you said you had gone to Isadore?

	LS:	Under Isadore Edwards, I was younger. I was in high school I believe and at this time and we were having the demonstrations. They weren’t really demonstrations, but organizing. He was organizing. I remember getting ready to go downtown for a demonstration but it didn't materialize.

	V:	Was that the one I heard — there was a demonstration that was stopped because Snag Thompson pulled Isadore aside or something like that.

LS:  That’s what I heard but I can tell you what I saw. We, as kids, were sitting on the steps of the Friendship Baptist Church and a load of White guys came along with guns hanging out of the windows. That’s when Rev. Andrews whose office was







upstairs and said, “We’re not gonna go downtown today.” After that, I don’t know what really happened behind the scenes. We were kids, we were young, so who knows. All I know was the demonstration was called off. Like I said, I’ll tell you what I saw.

	NS:	I don’t really remember my parents saying anything about participating in a demonstration or the NAACP directly, but as an adult, I had a conversation with a former teacher who said to me that they were told. Meaning Black teachers could not join or participate with the NAACP or they’d be in jeopardy of losing their jobs.

	LS:	But you got to remember at that time, you had a superintendent an assistant superintendent. That was pretty much the administration of the school board. You had school board members, but then all that middle people. I think the only time I remember any differences, Dr. Cade who was director of secondary education, that's when they began to venture out and have these — Who was the superintendent at that time when I came?

	NS:	White hair, grey hair? LS:	Williams?

	NS:	Ray Williams? Was he still? I can’t remember.



	LS:	It was Mike Primer who was the face that you would see. He was the assistant superintendent and come out to schools. He’s the one that if you had a problem

—



	V:	He’d do the dirty work?







	LS:	Yes. This was my first year teaching so I’m on an annual contract, so there wasn’t a whole I was gonna say, there’s not a whole lot I’m gonna do simply because if you want a contract at the end of the year, your contract is over anyway so you have to come back in the summer. At the end of three years, then you were eligible to go on “continuing contract.” Old people would say he was giving you tenure. Young teachers were not gonna do anything or rock the boat. Plus the fact, like she said she was pregnant and we were young, and couldn’t find an apartment. We were living with my parents. We weren’t shaking anything. However, in college, I was in the NAACP youth group but that was in college. You’re talking four hundred miles away in Tallahassee. Attitudes are different when you’re a student as opposed you’re out in the real world. You can’t be acting crazy, it’s time to buckle in and buckle up so I left all that in Tallahassee.

	V:	So Nancy, when you joined then, under Veronica Shoemaker, do both of you remember the major issues at the time post-integration?

	LS:	I think the problems were in schools. Schools were a problem.



	NS:	Under Veronica, by that time, we had already integrated so when we say they were the problem —

	LS:	What was going in the schools.



	NS:	I’m thinking part of the big issue especially around here, and I don’t really remember the NAACP addressing it, but employment, housing. Even being able to go into the restaurants downtown.

	LS:	But you’re talking about after schools integrated right?







	NS:	Right.



	LS:	I think the big thing was Ms. Shoemaker trying to get elected because we had voting at large and she had run. She had run every year, or every year, and she was never elected although she would always carry Black neighborhoods. I guess that was something the NAACP had to be fighting at that particular time. That was a major issue.

	V:	How did voting at large vote? I don’t know what that is? LS:	Okay!

	NS:	[Laughter]



	LS:	Voting at large is, you decide to run. We had four wards. Wards are districts.



Okay?



	NS:	The city is divided up.



	LS:	I think it was ward two or three, don’t quote me on that, but that particular ward encompassed the Black neighborhood. Sam Compton, who for a long time represented Ward Three — because you didn't ever see him, if Sam Compton walked through that door, we wouldn’t know who Sam Compton is. However, Sam Compton ran for office. He represented an area so Ms. Shoemaker ran against him. She would carry the area that she was representing but she wouldn’t win because all the other areas would vote for him, so at large it means anybody can vote for a particular —

	NS:	Any registered voter right in the city could vote.



	LS:	So what would happen is, you’re not winning your ward but you’re still sitting there representing these people. Veronica Shoemaker would win and he would







win the other three wards and he would win the seat. So that’s at large, everybody votes. In the end, the city did go to single member districts so that you would represent your ward, just the people who vote for you.

	NS:	However, Ms. Shoemaker just so happens, after running so many times, she won while the system was at large. That was remarkable for her to have done that.

That’s the same way it is with the Lee County government and why it’s so hard for a Black person to win a seat because here again, we’re divided up into five districts and you have a majority Black area. Say Ms. Melvin Morgan, who back in the [19]80s was appointed to the Lee County Commission by then Governor Bob Graham to fulfill whoever’s term it was. She completed somebody’s term and when she had to run on her own, once again she won this area that she basically represented but countywide she lost.

	LS:	What made the thing so unreal was the fact that the guy came in and he didn't even leave here. He stayed long enough to qualify, to meet the criteria for running for office which I think was six months. He won! The City Commission doesn’t want separate districts because they know that, hey, look, this is not gonna work for me. I’ll tell you something else: in this last census, U came around, the Black neighborhood was split because they saw what was happening. Now you talk about single member district and you might get that, if you go to the courts and the court say, “This is gerrymandering and it’s blatantly unfair,” then you go to single member district. The Black neighborhood now is split, so even if you get single member districts, you still won’t have a majority.

	NS:	[Laughter] Trials and tribulations that Black folks have been through.







	LS:	This area is in an area with north Fort Myers which means half the Black neighborhood is in the same district as north Fort Myers. There’s a natural barrier there, that river.

	V:	Yeah, the Caloosahatchee.



	LS:	Right! You’re in an area with north Fort Myers, which means you got nothing in common with them. That’s that half, the other half is in with Lee High. Lee High and a part of the Dunbar area is in that. You have Brian Harmon, who represents one half, and then Frank Mann represents the other half, the Black neighborhoods which is split right in the middle. They U. They came and this is what happened. Now, the NAACP fought that but they didn’t win.

	V:	The courts down here, they didn't win that? LS:	Did it go to court? What happened?

	NS:	I don’t think the NAACP has taken the county to court on the real portion. We did take the school board to court because their districts basically follow the county commission’s districts originally, and it was the same deal as far as, even though you had individual districts, you ran at large. So that has been changed. They used to just have five straight seats, now they have seven seats, five of which are single member districts, and two are at large.

	LS:	Which really neutralized the thing again. NS:	[Laughter]

	LS:	It’s called a hybrid system. V:	But why?

	NS:	[Laughter]







	LS:	Because it’s still gerrymandering. Any way you look at it, it’s gerrymandering.



This was to satisfy the court case. You give me this, I give you that. I get so crazy about what is happening when it comes to politics in Lee County and southwest Florida, after a while, I just pick up a good book and forget about the whole thing.

	NS:	Let me see, let me go back. [Laughter] You get so many stories. LS:	You’re learning a lot about our secrets.

	NS:	[Laughter] We were talking about my job and I mentioned that I had been in Cape for twenty five years, but I wanted to back up to when we were talking about the NAACP and the issues. We can talk about the housing. like I said when we first got married, and here we were trying to find an apartment. At that time, the majority of Blacks stayed on the east side of the railroad track. I was working downtown at that school board. My telephone voice was a lot different from my natural talking voice because that’s basically what I was doing, answering the phones down there for secondary ed. I had called and made an appointment to see an apartment that was on the other side of the railroad track.

	LS:	It was a grey area.



	NS:	It was a grey area now, but it was really close to the railroad track. Basically, it was considered the White neighborhood. Everything was all set. Levon and I showed up at the apartment that day —

	LS:	No, at the realty company. We never went to the apartments. NS:	I remember things differently.

	LS:	I can tell you exactly what happened. NS:	Where was the realty company?







	LS:	Right there as you coming off the bridge from Old Fort Myers exit, and you go around the little curve over to the left. There was this building, I don't know whether there’s anybody in that building right now. I remember walking in the door and listening to all of a sudden those typewriters stop.

	NS:	[Laughter]



	LS:	We’re standing there and they just, “What are these people doing?” At that time they had typewriters and it got silent. Then all of a sudden, this lady came from the back but she didn't say anything to us except, “The apartment has been rented.” That was it. We had gone by the apartment, matter of fact you had taken me by it to show me where it was. We didn’t go to the exact apartment, she didn’t meet us at the apartment, we went to the realty company. Those kinds of things stick with you so you got to throw them out of your mind.

	V:	Did you guys end up finding an apartment though? LS:	No, we ended up living with my parents.

	NS:	For a year.



	LS:	It just so happens there was an apartment across the street from my parents’ house.

	NS:	We eventually got that.



	LS:	We eventually got that. Matter of fact, the guy who [Inaudible] didn’t want to rent us anything because I Was hanging out with his son and he thought I was some kind of little gangster guy. But when she asked for the apartment, “Yeah, yeah, give it to her.” She had parents who were teachers. The apartment was







atrocious. Oh lord. We went in, redid the floors, carpeted, redid cabinets, redid the bathroom, awful. This is a rental now.

V:   I was about to ask if you owned it or not.



LS:  No, this was rental. He came up and he brought two gallons of paint and said, “Okay. Have at it.” We did a job on that apartment. Painted, I had my nephew. Matter of fact, painted all inside the cabinets.

NS:  Now, this is very small, Julian. It’s a two bedroom but …



	LS:	Linoleum in the floors and all this kind of stuff. Really kind of transformed that little apartment. Painted up and stick with some stickers on the inside of the cabinets.

	NS:	Just another example of the discrimination we experienced even back then. We got married back in [19]68, so this was during that [19]68, 19[69] transition here. One of the other things that happened for me, while he was away in Tallahassee going to school, I was living down in Dade County with my grandparents and came back here and of course had to start getting new doctors, dentists, all that good stuff. Called and made an appointment with a dentist off of McGregor Boulevard and I don’t know how long you’ve been around here but that used to be the ritzy —

V:   Oh yeah.



	NS:	[Laughter] Even in [19]68, we still had some businesses who had separate entrances for Whites and Blacks. I went into that business off the McGregor Boulevard entrance. You know usually when you go to a doctor’s office, you always have to sit in a waiting room a little while before you can actually go back.







When I walked in there, he was like, “Oh yeah, come right over here.” The nurse, receptionist, I don’t remember who it was, she ushered me right on out of that waiting area and set me in a hallway so I would be out of sight and out the back. I don’t know actually how long I sat there but I decided in my mind, “Unh-huh, I’m not gonna do this” and I ended up going right on back the back door. Anyway, Cape Coral High School.

	V:	Actually, if I could ask. I remember reading an article on the news press between [19]68 and 1970, when they were forcing integration, but the city had passed an ordinance where owners were allowed to refuse people based on race. They were allowed to put up signs that said the owner refused service to anyone based on any reason whatsoever.

	LS:	I don’t recall that.



	V:	I’d have to look at it again but it was a weird thing that I’d read.



	LS:	I don’t recall that. Going back to when I Was a kid, I know that downtown they had these kinds of White only or Colored only type situations.

	NS:	Like the water fountain.



	LS:	And even railway, bus stations, one side. I don’t remember. At that particular time we stayed with my parents in a two bedroom house. We stayed in my bedroom. Eventually moved across the street to the apartment.

	V:	How long did you stay at that apartment?



	LS:	About a year because my dad always said, “You got to have your own.” The one thing was finding somewhere to build. Her parents owned a lot, where we are now it was in the family.







	NS:	It was my grandfather’s plot.



	LS:	That was given to us but it was only a fifty foot front so we couldn't build a house that we wanted to build. We had to go to another professor or teacher and ask to buy a part of the next lot. The people moved next door to us and we had a lot and a half, and they had a lot and a half. Matter of fact, it’s Betty who has it now. Betty has a lot and a half next door to us. To make a long story short, even after acquiring this property, we were going around to people she knew and I knew, and we were designing this house. First, trying to design a house that would sit on a fifty foot lot and that just wasn't gonna happen. The zoning was different in that area. The zoning was in a Black neighborhood. I think they got rid of all those things now. To make a long story short, we ended up moving there. We had to go to First Federal to get a loan and we were rejected outright and the man was named Charlie Kind. You remember that?

	NS:	Yeah I remember that. He wasn’t so kind.



	LS:	He told us point blank, that even though we were working as teachers and employed, I couldn't do pretty much whatever I wanted. We had resources to do what we needed to. Mr. Charlie Kind told us, “We’re not gonna give you that money to build that type of house in that neighborhood.” Pretty nice neighborhood now, this is not a shed.

	NS:	Rinky-dink. [Laughter]



	LS:	Matter of fact, it was across the street from where her parents lived. NS:	It wasn’t a good investment for them.

	LS:	Guess how much it was? $28,000. That’s all it was.







	NS:	We’re talking about mid [19]70s.



	LS:	Eventually, we got $30,000. To make a long story short, I’ve always been a newspaper addict, just read newspaper after newspaper, so when it came to politics, I was pretty [Inaudible] when it came to that situation. He made a statement, “Now don’t get me wrong, we would not give the money to build that particular house even if you were building it in Russell Park.” I was like, “Where the heck is Russell Park?” Russell Park is some little rundown neighborhood that was out on Palm Beach Boulevard. I didn’t know it because it was in a White neighborhood. What he was trying to say was, “I’m not discriminating against you guys.” So in other words, “If you were White, you were building in Russell Park, we still wouldn't give you the money.” Some kind of way you got to read between the lines. This was his way of rejecting us. I went back and was still reading about it. This was the early [19]70s and there was a downturn in the housing market. Housing was, once again, getting ready to go bust. I was reading out in Atlanta, where the federal government had released money to stimulate the housing market again. It was called tandem money. We went back to see Mr.

Charlie Kind and ask him once again about the [Inaudible] I had. So I ask him, “Hey, you ever heard of the tandem money?” and all of a sudden, he starts looking kind of strange. Like, “Where the heck did you get this from?” I think it was that Thursday that we went. It was three days later that they were calling us to go to Cape Coral, they were closing on it so we had gotten it. Now whether it was the tandem money or what it was, we’re not exactly sure, but I was aware there was this government money and it was out there going back into the







housing market. We got the loan, and the loan was $30,000. The house that we built — I don’t know if you’re familiar with Michigan Homes. Michigan Homes is supposed to be high caliber type, one of the best at that particular time, houses.

	NS:	They were building homes on McGregor Boulevard.



	LS:	They were building homes on, what is the name of that place? NS:	On Whiskey Creek? Town and Country.

	LS:	Town and Country! They were building these out there. This guy’s name was Mai Tai, who was an executive of Michigan Homes. For some reason he had a falling out with them so he decided, “I’ll build my own homes.” So he had these models across the street from Michigan Homes. I guess this is the way you get your free advertising. Guess what happened? We’re looking at houses, driving down [Inaudible] Boulevard and we saw model homes and go visit the model homes. We went in to see him and he tells us he built a house just like Michigan Homes. There were certain things that we couldn't afford like the tile roofs. You get the asbestos shingles instead of the tile roof. We don’t get the driveway, we don’t get the swimming pool in the back [Laughter]. We don’t get the patio, we don’t get none of that, but the house is built in the same style as the Michigan. It’s the same quality, you just got to put in your own driveway, your own patio, your own swimming pool. So when we got our house, our bathroom door opened into the backyard because it was [Inaudible] on a pool deck. Long story short, we eventually got a swimming pool. We got a driveway and all that good stuff. Now I’ll stop talking.







	NS:	I was just about to say, “I’m going to have to shut him up or we’ll be [Inaudible] again and never finish.” When you talk about Mr. Kind, one of the things you forgot to include was the fact that even though he said we would get the loan, he threatened us by saying if we missed one payment —

	LS:	One payment! And they were going to foreclose our house. I’m serious. That stands out in my mind. This guy was upset by the fact that I had done this research. He said, “I want you to understand, if you miss one payment that we will foreclose it.” We were young and kind of crazy, too. It didn’t make us no different. We might miss a lot of payments, we didn’t care. We never missed a payment. Matter of fact, we’d double the payment. It didn’t make us do different. Now I guess I would be concerned. I’m older and a little wiser. At that time, I didn't care about what you say. Give us the money and let’s get out of here.

	V:	Were you guys only looking for property in Fort Myers? Because you were working in North Fort Myers, so was North Fort Myers something on the table?

	LS:	It was not. I was working in North Fort Myers but like I said, we were given this lot. It was not like we had to go out and find a lot. What we were doing was we were leveraging it and using it for collateral.. That’s why he didn’t want, “This lot ain't worth nothing. To give you this kinda money for that lot? Nah.” That’s what we were trying to do.

	NS:	As far as looking someplace else, he was working in North Fort Myers, and I was working in Cape Coral. I really wanted to move to Cape Coral but he didn't. He said Cape Coral had too many regulations and not enough trees [Inaudible 41:44].







	LS:	You couldn't park your truck in the driveway. They would cite you for twelve inches of grass. A lot of crazy stuff that was going on there. Nah, this aint about what I’m about. I just figured there were too many rules and regulations. We were already struggling to try to exist and I don’t need the added pressure.

	V:	I was asking about the Cape because I had heard in an interview with Aileen Bernard, who worked for Gulf American, which was a company that sold property there — she told the guy that interviewed him, he’s actually with the same organization I’m with, but he was doing it in the [19]80s — that if anyone from the Dunbar Community, so Black people, tried to buy land in Cape Coral, all the people who were selling land in Cape Coral would take them to the mud lots. The bad land. I was going to ask about that, if you’ve experienced that.

	LS:	We never even inquired about living in Cape Coral. I think they kind of loosened up the ordinances somewhat, they adjusted them. There was a time you couldn't build a wooden frame house in Cape Coral. It was not Gulf American, it was the people living in Cape Coral. A lot of retirees just saying, “We’re gonna keep Cape Coral like Cape Coral.” Everybody had started building down near the yacht club. The only thing was there was no bridge. You had to go across the bridge and go then go out to Pondella to go all the way down —

	NS:	South end of the Cape.



	LS:	Yeah because I had a friend who worked at the yacht club. We just to go down there at night to pick him up. Kenny.

	NS:	Mmhm.







	LS:	Boy, to drive all the way down Pine Island Road. [Inaudible] ride all the way down there. It can take you forever. Matter of fact, [Inaudible] had a landing strip.

	V:	For planes? LS:	For airplanes.

	V:	Oh wow. I didn’t know. LS:	To bring people here.

	NS:	For small Cessna type things.



	LS:	These would fly these people in to see these — I used to drive by there and see the light planes and stuff there. Right besides [Inaudible].

	V:	I was asking about that too, because how long was the drive to Cape Coral? LS:	Forever.

	NS:	[Laughter]



	LS:	Cape Coral was not near Fort Myers at that time. It was just way out there, almost at the beginning of the river. Cape Coral is actually southwest of Fort Myers.

	NS:	It was thirty minutes. It wasn’t that bad.



	LS:	Thirty minutes, when? After they built the new bridge? Remember there wasn’t no bridge to Cape Coral. The first Cape Coral was way down [Inaudible].

	NS:	Right. I never went to work that way. I always went to North Fort Myers.



	LS:	That was before. I’m telling you. You went to work that way because you were going to Calusa. Calusa is on the north end. When we grew up, we used to go fishing out there so I knew was no bridge across there. The first bridge they built was the Cape Coral bridge on the [inaudible]. Then they came and built the







midpoint. The one that they fought. I thought they were gonna have an uprising about that.

V:   Really?



LS:  Yeah, because that bridge was going right in the middle of McGregor Boulevard.



So they had to take out the “sacred palm trees.” Seriously. My goodness. You getting ready. It was really bad. There was some hard, hurt feelings over that. Fort Myers sued Cape Coral. And Doctor Gracey led the coalition from Fort Myers against Cape Coral. It was like an insurrection there. It was bad. Midpoint Bridge.

	V:	Midpoint brings a lot of business for Fort Myers. It basically connects the two. LS:	If you didn't know, the Cape Coral Midpoint Bridge, does not empty onto

McGregor Boulevard. That was one of their things.



NS:  Concessions.



LS:  It was never empty onto McGregor Boulevard. It goes over McGregor Boulevard.



You do a hook to get back.



V:  I never knew. The funny thing, too, is my mother owned a shop off McGregor right when you got off the bridge. I always wondered why it was designed like that.

LS:  The big fight!



V:   There’s the answer.



	LS:	They even had to close a church, or move a church down there. It was a big fight and what made the whole thing so bad, it was not in city limits. The city limits stopped before you got there so a lot of people who were living in Fort Myers on







McGregor Boulevard, it was not their fight, but they wanted to fight anyway. They lost that argument because it’s not even in your city. It was a fight, believe me.

	NS:	Okay, back to — [Laughter] LS:	Back to the discussion.

	V:	We keep going back to Cape Coral High School then to something else.



	NS:	NAACP. We’re talking about the fact that I started working under Veronica. Then, after her term, did Willy Green come next?

	LS:	Willy Green or Willy Battle. I’m not exactly sure. It could’ve been Karlita. Didn’t she come before Willy Green?

	NS:	The Willys served two different terms. Karlita came after the first term. Because Karlita came after “Chickengate” [Laughter].

	V:	“Chickengate”? NS:	Yeah [Laughter]

	V:	Do I want to know? LS:	[Laughter]

	NS:	Well around the time of Watergate, our local NAACP — You’re so young you won't even remember, you know where Harborside is?

	V:	Yes.



	NS:	Prior to Harborside, there was a city facility known as — LS:	Exhibition Hall.

	NS:	Exhibition Hall that was right on the water. That was their big to-do place for events around here. NAACP has an annual banquet, a fundraiser, and that year,







I can’t tell you what the year was, they had their banquet at the Exhibition Hall and ran out of food.

	V:	Oh.



	NS:	[Laughter] It became known as “Chickengate.” V:	[Laughter]

	NS:	During that time, I became disillusioned with the administration so I left the NAACP. I stopped working with them for a while.

	LS:	You eat your apple.



	NS:	Yes.



	LS:	[Laughter] This is funny. NS:	You’re jealous. [Inaudible]

	LS:	[Inaudible] When I had hair, my hair was tight in curls. V:	Disillusioned, you said. Disillusioned how?

	NS:	The administration mishandled money. It left a sour taste in a lot of people’s mouths because — you’re just saying you’re one of them?

	LS:	Yeah.



	NS:	At that time, I didn’t have the idea of staying and fighting in order to correct things. It was just wash my hands of it.

	V:	This was under the same Willy Green that ran against Theresa Watkins-Brown? NS:	Mmhm.

	V:	When you say he, or the administration, mishandled money? How were they mishandling money that left a sour taste? Do you remember what the argument was over?







	NS:	Just the fact that it was “disappearing.”



	LS:	That’s one thing and I don’t cut you off but I keep cutting you off. NS:	Yeah, you’re good at that. [Laughter]

	LS:	The fact is that when someone, a lay person, came in to U a problem at the NAACP, the first question they would ask the person is, “Are you a member of the NAACP?” If the person would say no, then they would collect that person’s money. A lot of times, there was problems that were never solved but you had that person’s money. I was never too keen on that kind of recruiting tactic. Maybe you could call it a recruiting tactic. I never really cared for that kind of craziness.

NS:  You can't prove it. It was hearsay. But in some of those instances where people gave money directly to them, to become members of the NAACP, I was told that the money never made it to the national office.

V:  It’s implied they just laundered it then? NS:  Yeah.

	V:	What kind of effect did that have on the community? If people are losing trust in the NAACP, then what happens?

	NS:	For a while there, a lot of people just refused to join. They figured the group wasn’t effective so why bother. Right now, the president of our local branch is a convicted felon.

	V:	James Muwakkil?



	NS:	James Muwakkil served time for killing a man. V:	Oh, okay.

	NS:	[Laughter] You never know this stuff.







	LS:	He’s a convicted felon.



	NS:	I can’t tell you how long he served but he did serve some time in prison. When he came in, a lot of people did not want to become members, or refused to join because they didn't want to follow a convicted felon. All I can say to that stance is the fact that, because he was a convicted felon, Brother James has been able to do more for people who are now in his situation or need help going through the legal system and getting advice on what you should do, what you shouldn't do, and pointing them in the right direction. Hey, I know I couldn't do it because I don’t know that stuff. From that standpoint, he has done a world of good for a lot of people. One of the reasons I got involved with him was in order to undo the reputation that had been done and we talked about Willy Green. There’s also Willy Battle. The two of them were like peas in a pod. At one point, one was president and the other one was vice-president and they flipped-flopped.

Irregardless, under both of those administrations, we had this thing about money disappearing and malfeasance in office because the national even removed them.

	V:	They removed them from their post? NS:	Their office.

	LS:	[Inaudible] organization.



	NS:	Then it took Brother James coming in and Mays, his treasurer, and some other folk who wanted to see the NAACP succeed and turn around its image. It’s the reason we have stuck by through these last eight years, ten years, whatever it is.

	V:	Is that how long James Muwakkil has been on there?







	NS:	Mmhm.



	V:	Has that been a point of contention then with his criminal history?



	NS:	For some folk. Like I said, we went through three election cycles and each time



— I don’t remember if anyone had run against him then or not. But I know the last two times, there was somebody that would run against him. One even had his doctorate but he still had not been around enough and was not knowledgeable enough to help people out like Brother James had.

	V:	What kind of work does the NAACP do today? I know Levon was talking about gerrymandering. What is the role of the NAACP in Fort Myers today?

	NS:	I alluded earlier to the fact that they did take the school district to court in order to get the single member district thing on. Right now we are still fighting with the school board. There’s a proposal on the table now that we’re waiting on a response from the school board on. I’m not a part of the education committee so I can’t even remember. I know it’s still trying to get some things done through the school system. We’re constantly going to bat for people and mainly minorities who have been unduly terminated or unfairly treated. Not only do we handle things for Lee County, we have some surrounding areas. Wauchula is Highlands County, right?

	LS:	No.



	NS:	Anyways, we’ve had to send representatives to help some other folk around the area as far as injustices especially police brutality, harassment, it just all depends. Around here lately, we’ve been known more for James’ fight against the statue, the Robert E. Lee bust that’s downtown. Whether that’s a legitimate







concern is a matter of opinion. I’ve told them before I had gone along with the majority however when they vote, but my thing is I’d rather be fighting that portrait in the commission chambers than that bust. Until they pointed it out, a lot of people didn’t even realize that bust was this. I, myself, pass by it all the time and never thought a whole about it, but if I have to go into commission chambers and sit there looking up at Robert E. Lee and his Confederate uniform.

	LS:	I sit under it.



	NS:	[Laughter] Yeah.



LS:  It sounds crazy but they were doing construction on city chambers, and at that time, I was on City Council. I was in a meeting in the commissioner chambers and I had to sit under that.

V:  The debate about the bust is relatively new, right? NS:  Yeah.

	V:	Because I remember when I was in high school, reading about the portrait which was before. Didn't the NAACP file a case against that, or no?

	NS:	Not a legal — V:	Or a complaint?

	NS:	We filed a complaint but we never took it to court. That’s one of the things that I would love to see us do, to go back. After Charlottesville, not the last incident but prior to that one, they had had the thing where Nikki Haley who’s now whatever she is, foreign —

	V:	Ambassador somewhere. LS:	UN Ambassador.







	NS:	They took their Confederate statue down and all. I think that was one of the things that got James all fired up about trying to get something done here in Lee County.

	V:	I got to check the time. I remember the last time we were taking, I was like, “Oh, we have a ton of time left.” We got plenty of time. Last thing I want to ask, then, we’ll go until this thing says an hour and thirty so Betty’s not going crazy out there.

	NS:	She’s going out to dinner.



	LS:	She’s going to a wine thing with Harriet.



	V:	I wanted to ask Levon, what got you into the City Council? Because I know before that you were teaching and —

	LS:	I was always kind of interested in politics but I worked with Ms. Shoemaker on her campaign three times. I had that interest and the lady who was in office before me was kind of incognito, been there for twenty one years and couldn’t —

	NS:	Wouldn’t respond.



	LS:	She just really didn't respond to us. There was this one day, I was going out to the swimming pool and the swimming pool was not open. I was like, “Why isn’t this pool open?” It was probably the summer and I was grouchy. I tried to call and I couldn't get an answer and so that probably put me into that — Actually I was trying to find someone else to try to run for office because she and I were retired. WE were supposed to be getting ready to travel. I can’t remember who told me but they said, “Why don’t you run?” But that just pretty much pushed me over the edge to do that.







	NS:		I remember with Paula the thing was — The neighborhood that we live in, we were in one block and the councilperson was in the next block along a different street from us. But on our block, she owned a house that was right on the corner from where we lived. She took that house and made it into a duplex which was not what our particular neighborhood was zoned for at the time. We had been out of town and come back in, looking at TV with the council meeting on. I don’t know what it was that she said, he looked at it, then decided to run down to City Hall so that he could confront her.

	LS:	They either gave her permission to do that or something like that, but I went down there to speak against. You’re in a single family neighborhood and now you’re gonna put a multifamily structure there. Her thing was, “No, this is not a mutli. All we’re doing is expanding, closing the carport.” The first thing they did was putting two mailboxes out there. When I went and filed a complaint, she took one of the mailboxes down. Then that guy who lived directly across the street, he was really upset, too but he’s a construction guy. He worried about getting contracts with the city so he just, “I can’t get U.” That’s what pushed me over the edge. The fact that she was like chest stuck out, “I’ve been in office all these years. I do what I want pretty much,” so now it’s time for her to go. That’s what kicked me out there. It was a pretty nasty race. People around pulling up signs and all kinds of crazy stuff.

	V:	Lots of mudslinging?



	LS:	Not on our part but yeah. The fact that I had never been to college. She said all kind of —







	NS:	False information.



	LS:	Warped up stuff. I’ve always been kind of like, “Well if I win, it's okay. If I don’t, I’m alright.”

	NS:	The funny things about it is, you talk about them pulling up the sign. People came back and gave us a description of the vehicle of the person that was going around and pulling up the signs was. Turned out to be Brother James. This was before he got involved in the NAACP, but she was paying him.

	V:	To pull up the signs of your guys’ campaign?



	LS:	It was funny because Nancy and I are lying in bed and we get a phone call from code enforcement. It seemed that my signs that I put up were illegal. Some were too close to the end of the street, some were too close to a stop sign. One was too close to a fire hydrant. This code enforcement went around and pulled my signs up. They told me, “You can come down and get the signs. We’ll just charge you $5 per sign.” I told them, “Keep the sign.” At Edison, at first you had your signs and all of a sudden all the signs turned green and which was her color.

People just called me, and said, “Man, what happened to your signs? Your signs disappeared. Her signs are coming up.” The whole thing was more funny to me than anything.

	V:	Were you surprised when you won though?



	LS:	No because you get that feeling of people working, that momentum of things like that. She was really upset. She went into the hospital after it happened. She never expected to — She said, “I won four elections. I will be five.” We were having these debates and I’d be killing her with kindness. [Inaudible] It just







aggravated her. I guess I was supposed to just get crazy and drop off the end of the earth but I never got too excited about it. When she came back she was wearing these dark shades. I feel kind of bad then.

	V:	How long were you on the council for?



	LS:	I was on the council for eight years, then I came back and served another year, so nine. I served, took somebody’s place who resigned. That’s a whole other story. I felt we did some pretty good things. The fact that MLK there, if you’ll note you [Inaudible] My promise was to bring businesses back to MLK. The way to do that was widen the zoning for the MLK but when the state came, because that’s a state road, by to widen it, they widened it from two lanes to four lanes with a fifth lane in the middle for a median. Those businesses that left could not come back because the size of your building dictates how many parking spaces you gotta have, so there was no parking. In essence, no one qualified to get back on that street. My thing was, “Let’s go and zone the thing. Widen it out. Zone it out to the next street that runs parallel on each side of it so now you can put parking in the back.” We got that done but then I lost the election. U It was rezoning overlay is what it was called. U made the next person and that was not his priority so we’re still where we are now. I did a lot of traveling to try and figure out what to do with that street to get it up and running again because that at one time was a business district for the Black community. The state thing is local is not a priority. Their priority is to move cars, and that’s what they were doing. Matter of fact, I think I got some slack from the state . I went and jumped on MPO to fight them.

Don’t get me wrong, I’m not a crazy person. You see where pressure is coming







and that’s when you attack that particular point. MPO, the Metropolitan Planning Organization, is awful so I went and got myself put on that. A lot of things I got done there isn’t any, “Okay, I can see it” because you can’t see business back on MLK. It just didn't happen that way. I was proud of the fact that we did get some stuff done out there.

	V:	That’s one of the things I always wondered when reading about everything.



You’re right that that used to be the business district. I hear from people that you could get anything you needed. Now whenever I go down MLK, it’s just nothing.

	LS:	It was stateside [Inaudible] and they did. They were given businesses, moving expenses, but you know, somebody come and give you some money you [Inaudible]. Lot of those businesses don’t even exist anymore. A lot of those people wanted to come back and they could not come back simply because of the parking situation was eliminated. That’s why I went in to fight. I pretty much won that one except that there was no follow up. Burson ended up with the McCollum Hall.

	V:	Is that where there’s such a big focus on McCollum Hall right now?



	LS:	McCollum Hall was supposed to be the catalyst to start bringing businesses back into the [Inaudible], especially the next two blocks. Flashpoint, McCollum Hall, Imax, that was supposed to be the draw. I think there was a whole lot of competition with the building back downtown too. If you go back and you look at community redevelopment agencies, you got these tip districts. Downtown is a tip district. Tip district basically says all the taxes stays in that district. You use that to redevelop the area.







	V:	And that’s local taxes?



	LS:	That’s local taxes. If you stop and think about, businesses that have money and taxes are [Inaudible], you have a lot of money situated in the downtown area because that’s where all the businesses are. But if you start somewhere like MLK, MLK was in the same tax district, you don’t have resources there to build up your little thing to bring development back. My first proposal was to make all of Fort Myers a tax district. They were looking at me like, “Are you out of your mind?” but that was something to shake them up. Next thing was, “What we’re gonna do is, we’re gonna make that Dunbar area a big tax district with Veronica Shoemaker. So all you get is nice trees, nice U along MLK” That’s all part of the taxing money, and you get this beautiful park. All of that came out of the taxes because it was in the taxes district. But when it came to putting money into businesses and using some money to start up, I think they were giving more like

$10,000. Some businesses got new facades. The money was not there but there was so much money. It is what it is. I gotta stop talking.

	NS:	Make a note to the person transcribing. You hear all this paper that’s flipping? It’s because Levon Simms is turning pages.

	LS:	I’m turning pages because it keeps me stimulated. NS:	I wonder how much interference that is —

	LS:	It’s not a whole lot. It can’t be



	V:		Oh, I don’t know. I might be the one transcribing this. I’ll understand. I’ll stop it here.

[End of interview]







	Transcribed by:	Heather Halak, January 25, 2021 Audit-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, March 3, 2021 Final-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, March 10, 2021