AAHP 705; Jackson; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 705 Kemberly Jackson 7-31-2019 Interviewed by Elery Ostertag on July 31, 2019 24 minutes | 15 pages



Abstract: In this session, interviewer Elery Osterstag talks to Gulf County native and current resident of Fort White, Florida, Kemberly Jackson. Jackson spent the first half of her childhood in Gulf County, where her mother worked in a nursing home and her father worked in pulp wood. Later in her childhood, the family moved to Quincy, Florida, in Gadsden County, where her mother re-married a local preacher. She recalls working odd jobs as a child in Quincy, from catching fish bait to picking blueberries. She remembers some of her mother’s favorite recipes, recalling that many ingredients she used were sourced from the ocean or locally-raised crops and livestock. The interview concludes with a discussion of Jackson’s own cooking techniques, which she credits her mother for passing down to her.



Keywords: [Fort White, Gulf County, Gadsden County, Florida, Black community, family history, cooking, food, rural community]



AAHP 705

Interviewee: Kemberly Jackson Interviewer: Elery Ostertag Date: July 31, 2019





	O:	This is Elery Ostertag with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. I’m here in Fort White, Florida with Kem Jackson at her home, and the date is July 31, 2019. The time is about three o’clock, P.M. How are you doing?

	KJ:	I’m doing great. How are you? [Laughter]



	O:	I’m doing well! Thank you so much for having me. So I’ll just start off with some background questions. Do you mind me asking when and where were you born?

	KJ:	I was born in West Florida, Wewahitchka, Florida. In Gulf County.



	O:	Okay. And what was it like? Did you grow up there as well or did you move to Fort White pretty early on?

	KJ:	Half of my childhood was in Gulf County, and the other half was in Gadsden County, which was in Quincy, Florida. So, yeah, growing up as a child when we were pretty much out the door all the time, exploring, in Wewahitchka. And when I got a little older, and I was into sports and stuff.

	O:	Okay. Are there any, I guess, experiences or memories that really stand out to you as being—standout from Wewahitchka and Quincy?

	KJ:	Yes. It’s smaller in Wewahitchka, in Gulf County where I was born. The area was smaller, and I was able—we had a lot of wooded areas in my home, in my community, so we would venture and go through lots of trails. And blackberries was prevalent over the summertime, and we kinda did a lot of picking of fruits





and climbing trees and exploring nature trails as opposed to when I was a little older moving to Quincy. I kinda lived in the country part of Quincy, however because the population was a little bit more, we didn’t wander. [Laughter] And we didn’t do a lot of things that I did as a child.

	O:	And so, growing up, what were your parents’ names and what did they do in Quincy and Wewahitchka?

	KJ:	Growing up, my mom and my dad—my mom was originally from Port Saint Joe, Florida, and she met my dad who was from Wewahitchka, and there they moved to Wewahitchka and then started having kids. So, what they did, my mom worked a couple of jobs. She worked at a nursing home. She worked at like the local co- op. And then my dad, he worked in pulp wooding, in timber wood. So that was pretty much what we had.

	O:	Okay. And so, when you guys moved from Wewahitchka to Quincy was it – did you have family in Quincy as well?

	KJ:	No, I didn’t really have family in Quincy. My mom remarried, and my actual step- dad was a preacher in Quincy; in the Quincy area.

	O:	And so because he was a preacher, your family was pretty involved in the church.

	KJ:	In the church, yes.



	O:	So, in Quincy, was it a pretty tight-knit community? I guess, very tied with the church and things like that?





	KJ:	Yes. As a preacher, my step-dad would get—sometimes he moved to different churches, depending on where they needed him, because he had to go where he was called. So sometimes, we were able to stay in the city part of Quincy, but then we eventually built a house in the country part, which wasn’t—it didn’t have a lot of people around it, so there wasn’t a whole lot of people around.

	O:	And so, once you moved out to the country, you had mentioned picking blackberries and things like that in Wewahitchka, was that still available in Quincy? Was that pretty common for people to do?

	KJ:	Not as much. I mean, they had big fruit trees, but I don’t know if they ventured out into trails and were able to just kinda roam the neighborhood. Well, they probably could roam the neighborhood. I guess because I was a little older, I didn’t do as much as roaming and picking a lot of the fruit. But when we were in Wewahitchka we picked blackberries, huckleberries, blueberries. Anything that was in season, we would go around picking.

	O:	So, growing up in your family, what was life around the home like? Like how were chores and things like that divided, and what was that sort of experience like for you?

	KJ:	Yes, we all had to work. I had an older sister. She was the worker bee, and we were a little bit younger than her, four or five years younger. As my mom and dad worked, she pretty much took care of us and made sure that we got things, chores and stuff, done around the house. So, she was like the head queen bee, and we would have certain tasks to do. Working in the house, washing dishes,





you know a lot of times I would try to get out but—[Laughter]—get out of doing my duties, but she kinda was there to…

	O:	I mean going to school, but did you have any sort of jobs outside of the home but still like working?

	KJ:	I started working as—very young. I started working. Actually, my mom and dad over the summer, for us to have clothes for the next year, even though they worked, it was still tough for us. Over the summer, what we would do—I don’t know if you guys ever…you’ve ever heard of anything called baiting?

	O:	I don’t think I have.



	KJ:	We would go and find a burn in the area, and what we would do is we would take a stall and stick it in the ground. Wherever there was a burnt area, we would take that stall and make the earthworms rise to the ground. We picked the bait, put them in buckets, and that’s what we did to make money. We sold them to a near store. Also, at a young age, I think before I was eleven years old, I worked under my older sister in the blueberry fields. Back there we had something called FICO Farms, and if you were sixteen you could work independently. And if you had siblings you could also bring your younger siblings to work with you. So we would work in the blueberry farms, picking blueberries, also.

	O:	Okay, cool. I know Quincy is a bit larger than Wewahitchka. I’ve been to Quincy. I’m from Tallahassee, and I know it’s kind of like—it’s a decent-size town. Were jobs like that, like baiting and I guess very, stuff from the outdoors like hunting





and gathering and farming and things like that, was that pretty common in Quincy?

	KJ:	In Quincy? I don’t know of anyone other than that area in Wewahitchka that ever baited, because every time I bring it up no one has any idea what I’m talking about, other than they taking a hole and basically digging up earthworms for themselves or getting it from the store. So, now, I don’t know if they did things like that in Quincy. I do know that they did have like tomatoes and people would work on different farms or whatever. So, there was that available.

O:  And so, growing up with the chores and responsibilities, did the cooking typically fall on you guys as well? Or was that something that your mom did, or your dad, or that everybody kind of shared in?

	KJ:	That typically mostly fell on my mom, but when my mom had to work my sister, my oldest sister, did a lot of the cooking. I didn’t learn any of the cooking until college, unfortunately [Laughter].

	O:	Do you remember what the cooking experience was like for your sister? Did she have any help or was there like talking that was involved, or was it kind of a communal thing?

	KJ:	There was a lot of talking. Like, we would, as far as when we were younger, because we were younger than her, she kinda watched my mom. And basically we would kinda just be her help, like if she needed us to get something we would run and get it, or whatever we had, she would basically—we would just be her help that way. So I got to see a lot of the cooking, and I guess when I got older I





did start cooking when we moved to Quincy, but it was nothing compared to the kind of cooking I’m doing as an adult.

	O:	And what sort of things do you remember your family cooking? Like were there any meals in particular, or special occasions, that you remember cooking as being very central to?

	KJ:	Yes. Being in West Florida, where beaches and the ocean was, you know we did a lot of fried fish, fried chicken, pork. Like our greens and stuff was seasoned with like porks, I think that’s because basically that’s what we grew up on. When we season our vegetables we usually had some type of pork to season our vegetables. Sweet potato pies, blackberry doobie, different cakes and desserts, you know, those are things that were common.

	O:	Okay. And with cooking, were there any aspects of like “your kitchen’s growing up” in particular that stand out or are memorable, like any cookbook in particular that your family might’ve held or things like that, I guess?

	KJ:	My mom always kept like a little box with her recipes in there, and so that’s one thing I remember. She didn’t really have any—a whole lot of books. Like a lot of the things she got was passed down from her, and you can see where she wrote down things that were passed down to her, and she still has that. Now I do believe she does have like magazine or recipe books, but from what I remember as a child, she had like a box, and in that box were index card with her handwriting on it with recipes.

	O:	Do you know who those recipes were typically passed down from?





	KJ:	I’m thinking it was from her mother, which probably was passed down from her mother.

O:  Did you know your grandmother at all growing up? KJ:  Mm-hmm.

O:   Okay. What was she like?



KJ:  She worked a lot, but she worked at a local nursing home as well, and she actually cooked in the nursing home. So, yeah, we knew her. Almost every weekend, we would visit.

O:  And so, was her cooking that she did there—did she bring her own cooking experiences into that?

KJ:   Yes, yeah, and that’s where my mom got a lot of her ideas and things from.



	O:	So when they were cooking did they—I guess you mentioned things like greens and fruits and things like that—were those usually like purchased from the grocery store or grown at home, or things like that?

	KJ:	Well, as far as farming, I know they had like gardens and stuff that they would have their own as far as vegetables, fresh vegetables, they would get. Now as with my mom, I know there were some things that we did get from like the local grocery stores for. As far as like greens, and some of the berries and stuff, we wouldn’t dare probably go to the grocery store getting—we pretty much did the desserts that were in season, and when they baked they baked the desserts in season. Like, we would always have sweet potato pies on Thanksgiving,





because I think yams are—I mean you can find sweet potatoes pretty much any time of the year now, but I know they’re really common around that time of the year.

O:  Was there any cooking that you guys ever did for, or that your mother or your grandmother ever did for your church as well like larger community events in which cooking was central?

KJ:  Yes, and there were—basically when we were at church, you notice that certain people do certain dishes, and they ask certain people to do certain dishes. And so, like, your mom may have this dish she does really well, and she brought that to the table, and another parent may have this particular dish that she does well and she would bring that dish, and that’s kinda how it works.

O:  Okay, and so what dishes were your mom and your grandmother kind of known for?

KJ:   Their greens, fresh greens, and desserts.



	O:	Okay, cool. So, I guess, do you know how long, since we are cooking doobie today, do you remember the first time you ever made doobie or your mom ever made doobie?

	KJ:	The first time I…I don’t remember the exact time, but I just remember the smell of it; the sweet smell of it. And the taste was very unique.

	O:	And so did you learn from your mom or your grandmother?





	KJ:	I learned from a couple of people, and the way I do it is a variation from mostly my mom, and then—but my mom adds the berries in hers, but I don’t necessarily like the berries, because I don’t like the seed in the berry of the blackberry doobie. And so I don’t put the berries in there. I strain the berries, and that part I got from my aunt.

	O:	Okay, so what is the whole process, I guess, look like? Is there any aspect of it that you consider to be sort of integral to making good doobie?

	KJ:	Well, the best is not the one I’m gonna show you, because I think the homemade dumplings are the best, but I can’t do the—I can’t guarantee the homemade dumplings [Laughter], so I’m gonna use the crescent rolls instead of the actual, the homemade up doobie. And to me the best part is the bread; the bread part in the doobie.

	O:	I’m sure we can get into it more once we’re cooking, I guess what is the process like? Like what ingredients do you start out with besides the bread and the fruit, and then what does it look like?

	KJ:	So, you start out with—you can—boiling the berries. Well you have to rinse the berries off; rinse them off really good and then you would boil the berries into the water. Most people would leave the berries in the water. If you want to leave the berries in there that’s up to you, but because the way I’ve always done it was to leave them without, my mom does it to leave them in. What I would personally do is strain the berries, leave the water in there, add butter, sugar, and vanilla, and then start pouring my bread in while the water is boiling. Once the bread is done,





the dumpling is done. I know some people do like a variation and make it like a cobbler, and they would add something else to it and put it in the oven, but the way I was taught, and the way a lot of people I knew, we just made the doobie, and I think that’s the difference between the doobie and a cobbler.

	O:	Okay. Are there any, I guess, you’ve mentioned the greens and things like that— those are recipes that stand out to you as being particularly significant? In addition to the doobie and things like that?

	KJ:	And, gosh, I would say hog maws, fried chicken. I don’t know if you’ve ever tasted hog maws. But it’s the—

	O:	I don’t think so.



	KJ:	[Laughter] You probably wouldn’t ever taste them, unless, you know. Just things like that. It’s more of a southern thing; southern culture I believe. Like we don’t have it all the time. Like hog maws, we won’t eat all the time, but it, you kinda have to have experienced it to have an appreciation for it and you just like it, and some people don’t. There are some people that just don’t like them.

	O:	So your recipes that you cook today, are those things that you plan on passing down or have passed down or?

	KJ:	Yeah. [To Rykia] Rykia, My daughter is trying to learn, so hopefully she—the times that I have taught her. It’s a pretty easy recipe so, it doesn’t take a whole lot.

	O:	We can go ahead and start cooking then if you’d like to.





	KJ:	Okay, all right.



	O:	I’ll go ahead and… [Break in recording]

	KJ:	Five cups of water and I’m just gonna bring it to a boil. Actually, oh where are the berries? We could be straining the berries.

	O:	And we just took a brief pause and now we’re gonna be cooking the blackberry doobie.

	KJ:	Well, actually just set it up there. Sometimes you think the berries are a little bit better if you picked them yourself.

	O:	I can imagine.



	KJ:	Because a lot of these berries are not sweet [Laughter]; not sweet at all. O:	Like as soon as they can get them off the vine and into a box, they do it.

	KJ:	Do you wanna help? So basically I’m just gonna let the water just run and just, if they see, if you see any stems or anything just…

	RJ:	Is this, do you want me to use your phone for pictures?



	KJ:	Where’d you get these from? They’re sweeter than [Inaudible 19:31]. O:	The camera is—I got them from Publix. The camera is right here.

	RJ:	Oh, right here, okay, okay. KJ:	Everything sweeter at Publix.





	O:	Publix is pretty great.



	RJ:	I’m just gonna take a few pictures of you guys.



	KJ:	Oh, the ones I had the other day were not sweet at all.



	O:	So, growing up, do you, I guess, do you remember what grocery store you guys typically did your shopping at?

	KJ:	When I was in Wewahitchka, there was a store called Dixie Dandy. Gosh, I don’t even know if they have it there still, but I mean, that grocery store had dirt floors [Laughter] up until about twenty years ago.

	O:	Okay. And so it had been there for a while? KJ:	Yeah. I’m not sure if it’s still there.

	O:	It was a locally-owned store?



	KJ:	I think so. And then there was an IGA. O:	Was that, I guess, a chain store?

	KJ:	I think so. But it was owned by, like a family in the area. Oh you got a lot of blackberries. How many did you get?

	O:	Rykia had had me get like eighteen ounces I think. KJ:	Oh okay, that’s how many this was; eighteen.

	RJ:	It’s just the one that you got just didn’t have that many blackberries in there.





	KJ:	Oh wow, they cheated me at Winn-Dixie. Oh! Do you, I was gonna say if you needed—Rykia, there should be some. We had some soap down here if you need to wash your hands and dry them there’s some paper towels. Did you move it?

	RJ:	No, not the dish detergent instead of soap.



	KJ:	No, the one in your room is about gone. So, I’m just gonna rinse it off real good. O:	Okay.

	KJ:	Or you wanna do it? O:	Sure.

	KJ:	This is hot, because I had turned it on, and then once you finish you can just pour them in there. Yeah, that’s a lot more, I would’ve just told you to get—I don’t know why that looks a lot more. And they’re bigger, and they’re sweeter! Publix, go figure [Laughter]. And so now we can just boil, boil these.

	O:	Okay.



KJ:  And we’re just basically waiting on them to boil. Now some people add—do you want a paper towel?— butter now and the sugar now, but it kind of depends on what you want to do. Are you gonna want yours with the berries?

O:  Just however it’s typically done I guess. I know you had mentioned you strain it. KJ:  And that’s not how it’s typically done.

	O:	Okay, we can do it with the berries then.





	KJ:	Do you want to do some?



	RJ:	I was gonna say can you do some with the berries and without? O:	We can split it up. We’ve got a lot of them.

	RJ:	To get both of the tastes.



	KJ:	Rykia’s like, “I’m not sure.” She’s trying to eat some! Are you gonna give your class – are you gonna give this to your…?

	RJ:	We only meet on Tuesdays.



O:  Yeah, we only meet on Tuesdays, but I had thought about trying to remake it at some point in the future, because they do like birthday parties once a month for everybody who has birthdays that month.

KJ:  Oh wow. So basically we’re waiting on it to boil. I personally—the next thing we’re gonna do is add the butter, the vanilla, and the sugar at one time.

O:   Okay.



	KJ:	So we got a little while until it start boiling. You can have a seat and relax. O:	All right.

	KJ:	Okay, I’m gonna finish cooking. Oh, and I should’ve told you okra. We love. Well some people like okra. It’s an acquired taste. Oh, Kia, there’s a fly in here.

[End of interview]



Transcribed by:   Elery Ostertag, August 2, 2019





	Audit edited by:	Sandra Romero, March 27, 2020 Final edited by:	Sandra Romero, January 14, 2021