AAHP 160; Robinson; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 160 Dessie Robinson African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on February 8, 2011 51 minutes | 29 pages



Abstract: Dessie Ella Lee Robinson was raised in Archer, Florida, and was among the earlier Black graduates of the University of Florida. She relates some of her parents’ history, including her mother’s youth in Columbia, South Carolina, and her father’s adventures as a piano player. Ms. Robinson herself graduated from Lincoln High School in Gainesville, Florida. She attended Tuskegee University for her bachelor’s degree, and then got a master’s in Nursing at UF. Her time at Tuskegee coincided with the Civil Rights Movement, and though she did not participate, she shares some memories of the events. She talks about the Black business districts both near Tuskegee and in Gainesville. Ms. Robinson also served in the US Air Force, and offers some thoughts on her experiences, and also talks about her nursing career.





[Keywords: African American History; Alachua County, Florida; University of Florida; Lincoln High School; US Military Veterans]













































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 160

Interviewee: Dessie Robinson Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: February 8, 2011



	W:	This is Marna Weston with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program at Pugh Hall, doing an interview for the African American History Project. We have the great pleasure today of interviewing one of UF’s earliest African American graduates during our first twenty years of the graduation of an integrated status at the University of Florida. And our interviewee is Ms. Dessie Robinson. Thank you so much for being here with us today.

	R:	Thank you for having me.



	W:	Great, and you’re residing now in the big city of Archer, so thank you for coming in.

	R:	That’s called LA. Little Archer. W:	Little Archer. It is a terrific place. R:	Thank you.

	W:	There’s so many questions that go through my mind when I get the opportunity— the blessing to do this type of interview. Just for myself, as a UF graduate, I sit here humbled, standing on your shoulders. You having been here, and paved the way for me, and hundreds- thousands of other African Americans to come and attend the University of Florida, as well as women, to attend the University of Florida. And I’d like to start out just by getting some of the details. Then we’ll go ahead and get to the juicy parts. First, you are Dessie Robinson.

	R:	Yes, I’m Dessie Ella Robinson. They called me Dessie Lee from Archer. When I left Archer, of course, the Lee fell off. But I’m Dessie Robinson and my home is Archer, Florida. I’m back there, and I’m glad to be back.





	W:	When and where were you born?



	R:	Archer, Florida. Yes, I’m a native of Archer. I did leave at the age of 19 to go off to school, but I was so blessed to come back to the University of Florida.

	W:	And what is your date of birth? R:	March 22, 1946.

	W:	And your mom and dad, who are they?



	R:	My mother was Carrie Robinson, deceased. And she was form Columbia, South Carolina. And my dad is Nathaniel Robinson, deceased, from East Palatka, Florida.

	W:	Your mom and your dad’s parents. Can we talk first about your mother’s parents?

	R:	Yeah, my mother’s parents were from, as I said, Columbia, South Carolina, so you know it’s these furrow there we got a little thing going on between my relatives in Columbia, South Carolina, and myself here. But she was about the third oldest of about seven kids. And because she had asthma quite a bit, she was asked to come down by one of her relatives here in Florida, in Archer, and that’s why she wound up coming to Archer. And while here, dad used to walk by her home here in Archer, to go for piano lessons with one of my relatives there, and that’s how he met my mother.

	W:	What was the name of the piano teacher?



	R:	Marie Irons, deceased. She taught actually notes, and the reading of letters in the musical area, and my dad was one of the ones to be privileged to learn that. He needed to learn how to play the piano for the church. His church needed a





pianist, and he learned that, walking by my mom’s house. They met, and they were 20 years of age when I was born.

	W:	What church was your dad the pianist for? R:	St. Paul Missionary Baptist Church in Archer.

	W:	Now here’s a real question. Did he get any good at playing the piano, or was he distracted at meeting your mom, and he didn’t really do his lessons? [Laughter]

	R:	Well, he was good at playing the piano, and being that good, they formed a quartet of four guys. And with that quartet of four guys, the ladies became very attracted to them, and that’s what caused a problem between him and my mom.

	W:	Oh, what was the problem?



	R:	Other women. [Laughter] In my particular case, my mom was a fighter, you might say. She instigated, I think, most of the arguments, or whatever, that they had.

And to tell you the truth, I was glad when they separated. I was glad because I didn’t have to listen to that type of atmosphere, but my dad came to visit us every three weeks. Took us out to the movies, to the shopping, so I never really lost connection with my dad. And not having lost connection, my mother passed at 49 years of age, and my dad was still alive, and that was in 1975 as I went off into the Air Force.

	W:	Did your dad remain in the community? Every three weeks he was close enough to visit?

	R:	He was close enough to the community, he residing in East Palatka, Florida. He played piano, and was a head pianist, there, at Morningside Missionary Baptist Church, for many a years.





	W:	How about your dad’s parents, his mom and dad, who were they?



	R:	My grandmother passed when she was in childbirth in the [19]40s. I didn’t really get to know her very well. And my granddad, I got to know him real well, he was in Palatka, Florida, too, east Palatka area. He was an innovator, and he was in business for himself, so for as trucking is concerned, dump trucks, sand hauling, and roof repair.

	W:	Pulp wood?



	R:	No. Regular dump trucks. Sand dump trucks, gravel. He had about three of those, not that many, and he did roof repair. So my dad went over to help him with that, since he was trying to find out what he was gonna do. And later on, he resided there, and moved into the near-by community, which was only five miles away, called Orange Mill. Became the owner of about two-thirds of that community.

	W:	And what were their names, your dad’s mother and father?



	R:	I can’t remember my grandma’s name, at the moment, I guess because you caught me off-guard, but my granddaddy was General Robinson. General, like General in the military, Robinson.

	W:	And that was his actual first name?



	R:	And I don’t know what his parents were thinking about when they named him General. But we got three generations of General Robinsons.

	W:	So it’s a name that’s been passed down.





	R:	It sure did! It got passed down. And the University of Florida physicians, used to love to see in the dental department, especially, my brother, who was General Robinson, come through. “Is the General here?” they would say. That was nice.

	W:	How many brothers and sisters do you have?



	R:	I have—it was eight of us. We only have one passed, which was my brother, and I have another brother left, so counting myself, we have six more.

	W:	Can you tell me their names, from oldest to youngest?



	R:	Oldest—Joan Miller. She is in Columbus, South Carolina. Gwendolyn Borkin Robinson in Archer. Dorothy Nattiel Etienne; E-T-I-E-N-N-E. She’s here at the University of Florida as a staff member. We got Shirley Edmond—Shirley Wheels Edmond—her father got killed here in Gainesville; was a taxi cab driver. But Shirley has a very important job here in the state, as well as in the juvenile department. Then we have, did I say Gwendolyn?

	W:	Uh-huh.



	R:	Yeah. And then we got Shirley, then we got Dot, and we got Vincent Nattiel. Dorothy and Vincent had the same dad, cause at that time, my mom and dad had already separated. So Vincent is proud Navy and he went out with me to Texas, as we would get to talk about, I hope, and he’s back at home, he’s a disabled veteran at the moment.

	W:	And then your brother who passed away?



	R:	General Robinson II. He worked with my dad in business in Orange Mill, and he also had his own pulpwood company.





	W:	Listening to the names, Robinson and Nattiel, those are all University of Florida names.

	R:	Oh good! Good. Yes, they were related to the Nattiel that we had here, yes.



	W:	What does your time in the University of Florida mean to you when you think about 2010, and you think about the time when you went to school here?

	R:	Well, I think that coming here was a cutlass for me to go further. It’s still, to me, the importance of succeeding. It wasn’t a matter of whether I was going to succeed. I was going to succeed. And the fact that I remember a statement that one of my professors said to me years ago. I said, “I am bored. I am really bored and unhappy about this class.” And she told me that happiness comes from within. And so I never forgot that. That you make your own future. You decide what’s happy and what’s not. So I decided that I am not going to happy too many times, so I am not unhappy quite often.

	W:	Now you came to the University of Florida to pursue your Masters. R:	My Master’s in Nursing.

	W:	Well, prior to that, you went to Lincoln High School.



	R:	I was a graduate of Lincoln High School in 1964. The last 2 months of that school year, as a senior, I went to night school because I was pregnant. But I had a 3.4 average. And I decided that I was still going to go to school, so my dad said, “Do you want to get married, or do you want to go to school?” I said I want to go to school. So my parents helped me with my child. I went off to Tuskegee, and I worked part time. When I got there, I did not know that I was in chemistry and I wanted to get into medicine, so Dad had sent money for my school, and at that





time it was quite expensive for us. But when they asked me to buy a lab coat for eight dollars, to stay in chemistry, I said, “I’ve got to get out of here, it’s just becoming too expensive. I can’t ask my dad for another dollar. I am going to nursing.” So someone said, “You can’t go to nursing, you’ve got to take the entry test!” I came back home to Florida, worked as a maid for a year, and went back to school the next year.

	W:	Where did you work as a maid at?



	R:	I can’t remember the name of the family, but it was a private home, I should say, and that was great for me. After I got my paperwork together, took my entry test to nursing, and back in the [19]60s we still had to take an entry test to get into nursing. And I got into nursing, and set a bowl there at Tuskegee, this was to us, we didn’t know then that this was a boarding school, we didn’t use that word, all we know was going to college. And we were very well culturized there. We had operas, we had ballets, we had people come in to sing, etc. And I was there during the march, when they began to march to Montgomery. But, we wanted to go, but nursing couldn’t get involved. Nursing couldn’t, we couldn’t leave the classroom at that time—to march with the rest towards Montgomery. So I was there at that time.

	W:	What was the atmosphere like at Tuskegee around the time of the march?



	R:	We had to tell our White professors that they were White. [Laughter] They wanted to march, because we did have integrated staff there, and students, and when time to march, they would get out and march, too, but we didn’t want them to get injured in any manner. So, we had to let them know, “You can’t march with





us! You’ve got to stay home, here.” So the atmosphere was not bad at all. We had the Black Panthers would come to the campus, because we have a lot of students there. And they would come and they would try to recruit people, they’d try to talk about negative things. At Tuskegee at that time, also for militarywise, this is where you would get your officers from, Black officers to go into the military. We had Army ROTC, and Air Force ROTC, and when these guys, on every Wednesday, they would be in full dress uniforms, marching around the campus, and marching down the main street, and we knew this was a day for the cadets in ROTC. At the end of their school, they went off into the military as officers.

	W:	Was that experience at Tuskegee, with the military, and parade, the ROTC, one of the reasons that you had familiarity with that and decided to go into the service?

	R:	I felt very comfortable, very familiar with that type of atmosphere, and I thought that would be something that I would like to pursue, and that was a very good decision for me and my life.

W:  Just to stay with Alabama in the [19]60s for a little bit. The atmosphere of the things that were happening in Montgomery, with Jimmy Lee Jackson, and Dr. King, you all heard about those things.

	R:	Yes, most of our students was involved in those things. And at the time we also had Vietnam era veterans coming back to school. At that time, you either were in school, or you were in the military. And after the military, when they came back, they were able to use their military tuition and fees and stuff like that—their





benefits, for their education. And I saw that they were well taken care of. So that was something, I enjoyed that.

	W:	What was the community like at Tuskegee? Were the people that actually lived in the town supportive of the students, were there close community ties?

	R:	We didn’t have any problem with the city. The city at that time was mostly owned by Caucasians, but we didn’t have any problems with that. We just really didn’t have to go down to the city that much, because near the campus were Black owned stores, restaurants, and flower departments, where we would receive our telegrams and moneys from our families and stuff, right nearby. I was there when Lionel Richie was there, and his family lived very close to the campus. So, it was sort of nice. In fact, when I came back from the University of Florida, and went back to Tuskegee to work at the VA, one of my boyfriends was the bass guitar guy for the Commodores. I didn’t think they were going to go anywhere [Laughter]. So, I relinquished that relationship, but I had that type of experience. I’ve had a lot of good experience in Tuskegee, because Tuskegee VA was a 3000 bed VA. When I came back from the University of Florida, I was 29, and they gave me a head nurse position in the VA; in the rehabilitation section. And I didn’t know that we had 30 head nurses at that time. And at that time, also, was the lock-down area for those that was almost insane. That was the mentally challenged individuals in those days was separated from the main population, and they had about a three story building where every floor was locked. But I’m sort of blessed, I guess, that I didn’t really have to work over there. But my section was rehab. So when the guys started coming back from Vietnam again—





they were still coming back—I saw the benefits that they were getting. As I would do the physicals, and I asked questions, I saw that this might be something that I want to get into.

W:  So Lincoln High to Tuskegee—you graduated from Tuskegee with your degree in nursing.

	R:	Yes.



	W:	What brought you back to Gainesville and the University of Florida to get your graduate degree in nursing?

	R:	It is ironic that you should ask. When I got my license as a registered nurse and worked at that VA, I had a tough head nurse. She had the reputation of being tough on all new graduates. I decided to get away from her; I would come to graduate school, back to Gainesville. So, coming back to Gainesville, I said, “Imma go to school.” I had a choice between University of Miami, as a nurse anesthetist, or the University of Florida, as a person to go into administration. I chose University of Florida; close to home, for me it was an area. While here, I went over to the VA, which is here in town, as an intern, or extern, you might say, in administration. I really enjoyed my experience here. I wound up going to surgery, to see surgery—almost passed out. I decided, then, that I do not want to go as a surgical nurse. That was at VA, when you had just one little section here called the aid building now.

	W:	What was the name of that really tough nurse that made you reconsider your choice?





	R:	Mrs. Wyatt. Oh, you can never forget those names because it just sticks with you. She was not bad herself at nursing; looked nice, carried herself nice. We all looked professional. In fact, we had so many degree nurses at this VA in Tuskegee, they were trying to get us or lure us away to go to other VA hospitals to help build up the staff. Now at that time VA had a reputation in the years past, where that was the last place a person would want to go because of the care. So, we, in the VA system, we relinquished and dissolved all nurse aide positions, all LPN positions, and became all registered nurses. So they wanted to pull us all out of there—too many degree nurses in that particular hospital. And the reason we did so is because we reorganize it, re-getting ourselves together with the care that we were giving our veterans. And so now, as you know, VA has done that, ahs a very good reputation, and we now have LPNs and nurses’ aides, which is medical techs.

	W:	What year did you begin graduate study here at the University of Florida? R:	In 1972.

	W:	Now you have with you one of the many diplomas, and your actual UF diploma.



Would you mind sharing those?



	R:	This is a reduction of my University of Florida Master’s Degree, and as you mentioned, this is many diplomas given to us by the alumni association. I keep this, as you can see, I still have it for this many years, and I am finding out that we don’t do that anymore. It’s nice to have it.

	W:	Many alumni have spoken about that. We have Ruben Askew as the governor over there; we have Stephen C. O’Connell as the president of the University of





Florida in August [19]73. What was the atmosphere like, here on campus, at the University of Florida in the early [19]70s? For the students that are here now, and those here before, everybody talks about Black Tuesday, when all the Black students left campus. Were you here for that?

	R:	Yes, I was here. I was also here when we had the first Black president of student council. He was in my class at Lincoln High School.

	W:	Sam Taylor.



	R:	Sam Taylor.



	W:	Sam was on the cover of the UF magazine this year. He’s come back. He’s always been here. He came back and he’s offered to do some interviews. Did you know Sam very well?

	R:	Yes, we were in the same homeroom, you might say, at Lincoln High School. At that time they put those who had 3.0 averages and above in the same classroom, and they decreased them all down. I guess I don’t know where the others were. All I know we were in the same classroom, and we all studied academic courses, as they called it, because we had teachers that were going to college.

	W:	What were you impressions of him at Lincoln, and here at the University of Florida when he was president?

	R:	He was always a person that was opinionated but not arrogant. He was always— we call it low key. He was undercover in a way. He didn’t thrust his knowledge on people, although we could tell by his grades—and the things that we got, and so forth, letting us know when we were turning in papers, or took out tests—that he





was academically very good. So that I did remember him as being a very nice and very friendly guy. But, at that time, I was playing basketball at Lincoln, and doing some other things, I didn’t really get a chance to mingle after school with that particular group. I think he went in into the band. And the band at the high school have their own family, you might say. After school, they were practicing their band, and after school I was practicing basketball.

	W:	Did you have the chance to campaign with them, or see them campaigning when he was running for president here?

	R:	No I could not at the time, because I was schooling and working part time. I worked part time at a long term care facility which is still here, and my time was pretty well occupied.

	W:	Did it make you feel a certain way though, that he was representing you in the student government that he was elected?

	R:	Well, we all felt comfortable here. I don’t think I ever felt uncomfortable at the University of Florida. Only thing about it at that time, we didn’t have a Steelsborough [inaudible 22:18]. We didn’t have nobody throwing the ball. In fact, very few people went to the football games or the basketball games because the activity on campus was more academic at that time. Although it’s very well academic now, we just didn’t have too much of a sports life after class.

	W:	What did you, even though you were working, what did you hear about the Black student walk-out, the occupation of President O’Connell’s offices and how people were concerned about the treatment of African Americans on campus at that time?





	R:	I did hear of it, but I wasn’t close to it. As I said before, I was more nursing.



Nursing does occupy a lot of your time. And we couldn’t get too much involved, just like in the [19]60s at Tuskegee. I couldn’t get too much involved in there because we had so many things we needed to concentrate on. And school for us closed sometime, but not all of the time.

	W:	Well what kind of things were you doing to move yourself toward your degree? You already mentioned that you’d decided from observing a surgery that you didn’t want to be a surgical nurse, but what were you classes like? Who were your favorite instructors? What kind of things were you doing as you pursued your degree?

	R:	I think I didn’t really dwell on that as much as my instructor’s names and quite a bit of things like that. I don’t recall that very much, but I recall that it was pretty heavy. I did have to come across campus for other electives. I took golfing, and I also—every class I went to at that time seemed like they wanted a paper. And as time went on we would all began to suspect in a way—but this was not the only university—that some of our papers were used to publish books. But I wrote a lot of theses and a lot of papers. That I do recall for most classrooms.

	W:	A lot of students still talk about that; how their research may not be properly credited to them. [Laughter]

	R:	That’s right.



	W:	Well we keep the University moving forward.



	R:	That’s right. We’re moving forward, because those were the days and we are here now.





	W:	Do you feel that your graduate education at the University of Florida prepared you to continue at the nursing at the level that you did?

	R:	Yes, it did. I began to feel like there’s nothing I could do, couldn’t do, that is. I took the masters, I guess, for granted, because I figured that that’s what you’re supposed to do; move forward. And when I was here, I was 27, I think, when I graduated, and I thought I was old! I thought I should have been here at 25 getting a master’s. You’re supposed to move forward, because if I had not moved from chemistry I was going to be a doctor. So, I moved from chemistry and I became a nurse. And when after I got the BS degree, “I can get a master’s.

Anybody else can get a master’s. I can too!” So I came and I got the masters, but I found out as time go on, when the military brought me in as a nurse practitioner, I was isolated from the other nurses. When they heard that I was a nurse practitioner, a master’s from the University of Florida, they shunned me. I think they felt threatened about me. Even after the military they felt like I was coming to get their job, so that’s why I began to create another life for myself.

	W:	Well I’d love to hear about your integration to the military. You have interesting pictures to share with us. Before we go there very quickly, though, could you tell me what it was like living in Gainesville? You talked about the business district in Tuskegee. Was there the same sort of thing here, a place where it predominantly was Black business, maybe 5th Avenue? Or do you have a recollection of where you did your shopping and your restauranting?

	R:	When I was here in Gainesville—I still have at home my first Moss Brothers card.



It was blue. And we had the first mall on 13th avenue. So that’s where Moss





Brothers was. We’d be elite shopping. I was very accepted there. And my first living in Gainesville was at Arredondo Village on Archer Road for mobile homes. I was received well there, probably one of the only Blacks that was there in the mobile home, because then I stayed there and came here to school. So that was in between Archer and school. So that was a place that I thought, as a student, that that would be better for me to stay than on campus, and be able to live between my family in Archer and go to the University of Florida. So that was my living. I didn’t live on campus, I lived off.

	W:	That makes sense. How often did you go over to Moss Brothers? I actually used to have dinner there sometime, but it’s gone now. They built a Lowe’s there in that shopping plaza. For years they had Moss Brothers that nice restaurant underneath.

	R:	That is true; it was a very nice. Whenever—even when I came back to town that’s one place I had to visit, was Moss Brothers. They were—what we called them? They were similar to the Macy’s, you might say, in town.

	W:	Did you also enjoy Skeeter’s Restaurant? ‘Cause Skeeter’s for a while was across the street from Moss Brothers.

	R:	Didn’t get to Skeeter’s, but I remember them being there. No, I didn’t get to Skeeter’s Restaurant.

	W:	Was that one of the places where African Americans did not do business much at?

	R:	I don’t think it was publicized enough for us to want to go to. So we back in the [19]60s, you tend to mingle where most of your Blacks mingle, too, and you tend





to not go where they are—where they’re not, you know. So that was the days, now. I don’t know if we should go this way, but in those times, we did have social gatherings that was outside the city limits.

	W:	Oh really?



	R:	One on 39th avenue past 75. And most of the Gainesville, Alachua, and Archer area people would go there to have their nights out, you might say.

	W:	Going toward 241?



	R:	Yes, 24th street and 21.



	W:	Okay, so about where between 75 and 241 on 39th. How far out would it be?



	R:	Right now, it has been, it was pushed down two years ago, I think it was. It was next to what we called the female protection building. It’s a very large building that’s about half-way between 75 and 241, so on the right side. So it was in a neutral area for a lot of people, these college students could go to, and young couples, as well as singles would go.

	W:	Was that something that was promoted by the Female Protective Society?



	R:	No, it was not connected with them. It just happened to be near them. I don’t know who owned it. But it was there. I got to know it when I came back to work at Tacachale—formerly known as Sun Land. So I worked there as a nurse for about two years.

	W:	Was there before or after your military service began?



	R:	Before military service, in-between the graduation from Tuskegee, deciding whether to stay at home and then going back to the VA.

	W:	Well, how did you find out about the Tacachale?





	R:	I had relatives that was working there, and that way I was able to get a transition by going and asking, telling them who I was, and that was it. That was also the first time I got my first Mercedes. I was twenty-nine when I went into the Air Force with a Mercedes. At that time it was only five thousand dollars. For a new Mercedes. And I only paid something like four something a month; something like that.

	W:	Were you recruited into the military? As you mentioned before you were ROTC familiarity from Tuskegee made it something that you sought out, because of the benefits and some ideas about what might happen.

	R:	I sought it out. And I made that decision and they said, “Yes we want you.” And that’s what it was. So I went in in that manner.

	W:	Were there other Black women like yourself that were also pursuing that challenge, because I am thinking about this Vietnam era in the [19]70s? Were there many people like you doing that?

	R:	I went to officer’s training school. There was only about three Blacks in my officer training school.

	W:	How many were in the total class?



	R:	Maybe about 100. In total class. But at that particular time was also the time that my mother passed. I had to leave officer training school in the last portion of it and come back to Florida to attend my mother’s funeral.

	W:	It must have been a very sad time for you.





	R:	It was, because I had to drive. At that particular time we didn’t have too much of a commercial flights into Gainesville at that time. So it was more advantageous for me to drive.

	W:	Where was your officer’s candidate school at?



	R:	Wichita Falls, Texas, called Shepherd Air Force Base. W:	So that’s a long drive.

	R:	A long drive.



	W:	And did you make the drive by yourself? Or was there someone with you?



	R:	I did by myself. And there was nobody to come with me. And I was, like I said before, I was young. I was about twenty-nine, I think.

	W:	Do you recall, of course, it was a painful time and long ago, but do you recall any of your thoughts as you were driving? What was, besides your relationship with your mom and missing her, what kind of things were you thinking about?

	R:	Well, it wasn’t anything unexpected because she had asthma and smoked, and she developed cancer. And to me I wanted to get into the military as soon as I could to help her as well with some medical things if she needed it. But, to me, I got robbed you might say. I told myself “You got robbed of the opportunity to help her by her passing away so early, at that particular age.”

	W:	Was that one of the reasons that a medical career was important to you?



	R:	Yes. I think so. I think that was very important. I think also I was the first one of the young—of my family members to go to college. Because my mother didn’t go, my dad didn’t go, and my older didn’t sisters—older than me, two of them— did not go.





	W:	So you were excused from officer’s candidate school to come to your mother’s funeral.

	R:	Yes.



	W:	You buried her. R:	Yes.

	W:	You go back to officer’s candidate school?



	R:	No, from there they were saying that we were almost finished. You can go on to your assignment, which was St. Antonio, Texas, Lackland Air Force Base.

	W:	Okay and what did you do there?



	R:	That’s when I was inducted as a first lieutenant as a nurse practitioner. And when I found out that I had all this qualification, and all these degrees that I didn’t really know what I should come in as, they told me that I was well qualified to come in as a captain. But I was brought in as a first lieutenant. When I was brought in, I saw active duty. I saw retirees, I saw families, no children, but the wives, the husbands. And I could not refuse a patient. I had those that simply would come back to see me, come back to see me. I said, “Dr. So-and-so, I think I’ve done all I can for him.” “I’m sorry, lieutenant, he wants to see you. She wants to see you. You got to see them. You cannot refuse to see them.”

	W:	You had great rapport with people.



	R:	I enjoyed it, and it seemed like I did have a great rapport with them. And one of my dentists at that time, who was a colonel over at the dental department, took me to the University of Texas to do what they call a gold foil. And even today, all my military dentists that looks into my mouth are amazed that I have in my mouth





what they call a gold foil. It’s behind a tooth, it goes into the tooth, and it does what we call the replacement of a cavity. Today, they use white porcelain. And this doctor was showing the students in dentistry how to do that. He said, “Would you like to go?” I said, “I don’t mind going.” So I wound up there. But still, I was a nurse practitioner with Dr. Bales, I think his name was. He was a very nice guy.

	W:	And a person you remember, of course.



	R:	Remember very well. We had a very good dental relationship.



	W:	Now, speaking of remembrances, I went to a graduation ceremony for an Air Force person this year, and I saw the handing over of the coin that you’re supposed to get back when you become a general. Do you remember you senior drill instructor, who you gave the coin to?

	R:	Well, no, because I wasn’t there at the end. W:	You missed the graduation ceremony.

	R:	I didn’t get a chance to get that ceremony. W:	So that was never really done for you?

R:  No, it was never really done. I just picked up. I was very well needed in the nurse practitioner role. So they were, you might say, awaiting my coming and were glad to see me come.

	W:	Would you mind sharing that picture of you in the Air Force that was used for the advertising campaign? Describe that. Where you were at that time and how you ended up being in this picture.

	R:	1975, I was inducted. So this is about 1976. In coming by the Wilfred Hall Medical Center, is housed on Lackland Air Force Base. And as a member of the





staff, in some kind of way, they found out I was there. And these are recruiter’s photos. They took pictures of me, and I didn’t know they were going to use them as recruiter posters. So when I left Lackland and was in Korea, one of my friends said, “Do you know I’m here in the recruiter’s office now? I am working here, as a recruiter, and we have one of your photos.” So he sent it to me. That’s when I found out that when we did get the photos we couldn’t recopy them. The Air Force Signature would not recopy it, and you couldn’t recopy it in color. Target tried it. It has a protection on it. So that’s what that was for. A recruiter photo that was sent to me that was done in the [19]70s as a nurse practitioner.

	W:	Would you also mind sharing your class—your graduation class picture?



	R:	This was a good large class. It was for flight nursing. And this was taken in St.



Antonio as well. And as you see I think I’m the only Black one in there. And I had received a lot accolades for my position, and they decided that I should go to school here for this particular position.

	W:	What does being in the Air Force, an African American woman, and a nurse practitioner, with the education you had, what does all that mean to you? What has that done for your life?

	R:	Well, it enhanced my life a lot when I didn’t have to mellow down. I had to fall in line for myself. My past became intimidating as a nurse. When I was released from the military I was thirty-nine; I had a hysterectomy, so that was from a condition in the military. So as I’m out in the community of St. Antonio I get a position, and they hear about my past. And because I’m overeducated, short of a





PhD, so I didn’t know that, because I’m among educated people. And I didn’t know that we were that—had that much impact.

	W:	What was your rank when you left the service?



	R:	I was captain when I left the service, but I became major in the reserves. So what I did was I switched over to the Army and became Army reserve. This is when I went into business. I first took real estate because I had to do something other than nursing, because although I liked nursing, nursing wasn’t really for me.

	W:	What do you mean nursing wasn’t really for you? [Laughter]



	R:	I could be an evening nurse, a night nurse, but nowhere in the profile. I couldn’t get on the day shifts. I had trouble finding a job that I felt comfortable there. So while working as a nurse, and going to real estate school, I found out they had temporary nurses. Temporary nurses? What do you mean by that? How much you guys are making? And then they told me, and then I formed a nursing agency.

	W:	Wow.



	R:	And the nursing agency, I had to go out and get positions for my staff. And what I did was, when I formed the agency, I went out as a temporary nurse myself, and recruited nurses that way. And we were top paying in St. Antonio, Texas.

	W:	That must have been very satisfying—to find a niche in the business community from all your training and still be able to help people.

	R:	Yes.



	W:	And make money.



	R:	Yes. I learned how to form a corporation.





	W:	How many nurses worked with you, or under you?



	R:	We only had about twenty or thirty as temporary nurses, but we had thirteen hospitals.

	W:	And how long did that business relationship last for you?



	R:	Till [19]89 I believe it was when one of our hospitals went under, blowing us quite a bit of money. But in the meantime, before they went under, we did get a very prestigious position at Bear County Jail. It was a new jail, and being new, like a lot of new facilities, understaffed. So they needed a nursing agency to come in to give out medication to the inmates. We got that job.

	W:	That was in Texas.



	R:	That was in St. Antonio, Texas, in the city. It was the first agency to bought into the Bear County Jail system to give out medications. Cause they put me in the newspaper and that’s where the article came from that wrote up about the agency coming in to give medications.

	W:	That was just a happenstance that you met a reporter?



	R:	I don’t know how I found out that they were bidding for it. I bid for it and we got it. But, I don’t recall how we found out that they needed it, but we bid for it, for the position.

	W:	When you finished with this corporation, I know that you also had experience with another corporation, but that was more of a political orientation. Could you talk about that corporation?

	R:	Yes. I am a tougher person, I guess, that as we began to have the nurse staffing agency, there was very little for me to do myself. I had so many staff people





going around and doing various things. So, I don’t know who found out that I was there, because they knew that I was there. I was on the loop before ten, which runs around St. Antonio, and they asked me if I would like to come into the new forming national political congress for Black women. New forming? What is this about? So one of the founders, Shirley Chisholm, “I am pretty sure you would like to become a member, because this is what they’re doing. They’re trying to educate Black women to become more involved in politics.” Okay, okay.

W:  The Shirley Chisholm. R:  The Shirley Chisholm. W:   Who ran for president?

	R:	Yes. Cause she already had an established branch in Austin, Texas. So we’re down from Austin in St. Antonio, so we sort of used their guidelines to help form ours in St. Antonio. So I had to help re-organize, re-do the, re-form the corporation papers to incorporate the national political congress for Black women, St. Antonio branch.

	W:	Here’s a question. Did you get to work with that great daughter of Houston— Barbara Jordan?

	R:	Let me see as I get this far [Laughter]. I don’t think so. I don’t think I had a chance to work with her. What happened with the political congress for Black women in St. Antonio, I don’t know, but we had trouble finding meeting places for us. At that time, back in the [19]80s, I was having trouble finding a place that we could meet on a regular basis. Barbara Jordan did have a center there, in St.

Antonio, and that’s where we met on some occasion. But the thing was that





others, other Black organizations, who were more well established, also needed positions there.

	W:	So there were few places to meet and they were already spoken for.



R:  That’s right. So what happened to it after, I don’t know. It dissolved, and I don’t know if they reestablished it or not.

W:  Stepping away from the political and the professional and the academic, you also have a recreational achievement that very few people get to have. And you have an award with you. Could you show us that? And share that experience please?

	R:	At the time of the agency, as I said before, we were quite busy. I had to form my own time and recreation. Military enabled me to learn how to bowl. I bowled for three Air Force bases. I bowled for MacDill Air Force Base in Florida, because I was assigned there. I bowled for a Korean Air Force base, Philippines Air Force base, Lackland Air Force base. So after the military I was beginning to be very good. So at the time of the agency, I had what they called a transportable phone. It went with me when I bowled on the tournaments on the weekends. So when bowling on one, in 1995, I bowled a 300 game. They gave me a diamond ring with three diamonds in it and this plaque from the State of Texas. It’s a curricular activity.

	W:	Turn around so we can see it from, on camera? R:	Oh I’m the one can see it. There we go.

	W:	There it is. Texas Women’s Bowling Association. R:	February, what the 6th? 1995.

	W:	That’s correct.





	R:	And when I was bowling this particular game, I was tired. I had done some staffing and I knew that I was supposed to bowl in this tournament, and we had a thousand dollar tournament, almost, in Austin, St. Antonio and Houston every weekend. And I’ll be jumping from one to another. So I was tired. So when I got there I just—I was tired, got up, didn’t think about it, and bowled.

	W:	On automatic.



R:  I was on automatic. And when I got to the 10th, and they were all looking at me, I hadn’t paid attention to what was going on, and I bowled. I was shocked myself, that you can do it better when you don’t think about it.

W:  It’s fascinating to meet you in Archer through the Bo Diddley committee that was taking place there; that was a great night. What is it about Archer that brings you home, besides it being the place that Bo Diddley called home?

	R:	Well, what happened was I think the Lord brought me back here. On I-10 I was going to a bowling tournament on the Fourth of July weekend, and there was an accident on that road. Some young people pulled in front of me, I jerked into an SUV, and turned about four or five times. Got injured, but because I did not get particularly rehabilitated, my family said, “Why don’t you come on back home?” I came back home and I sat down for about four or five years till somebody found out that I had a school in Texas that taught nurse’s aides, and they wanted me to do it here. And since 1996, I’ve been teaching the nurse’s aide class for my church in Archer. I must plug this in, LPJ ministry of Archer with pastor Ron Days. So that’s what got me back here, and my being involved with our mayor





Lopez. She’s a family member who her sister was instrumental in telling me to go on to college. You can do it. And that’s how I got to know the Lopez’ in Archer.

	W:	So even in a little place like Archer, there is a striving for success and achievement.

	R:	Networking going on in Archer. And now my next goal besides the school is to get a tutoring class done for our Newberry High School students of Archer. We need tutoring, and teaching that nurse’s aide class, which is mental therapy for me, I enjoy. I found out we need more tutoring in Archer. We can’t rely on the family—they can’t tutor. If you ask me about algebra, I could not help you.

	W:	What are your hopes for the kids that live in the Archer area?



	R:	That they can think of me. I tried to give me an example that you can—don’t let pregnancy hold you back, try not to get pregnant, but when you do so, yes you can make it. Don’t think that because your mom didn’t do it, your dad didn’t do it, that you cannot do it. And that’s what my next goal is, is to instill into young people: yes you can.

	W:	Dessie Robinson—1964 graduate of Lincoln High School, 1969 graduate of Tuskegee, and 1973 graduate of the University of Florida—I cannot thank you enough for spending this time this afternoon to come to the University of Florida campus, to Pugh Hall, and do an interview to help us learn more about the lives of those African Americans that came to the University of Florida during its first 20 years of integration. On behalf of the Sam Proctor Oral History Program, I thank you so much, and our African American History Project. I’d like to close the interview by giving you the opportunity to make any comment that you’d like to





make; something about the interview, or something that we didn’t touch, or just thoughts on your own. And, when you conclude those comments, that will conclude our interview.

	R:	I think that I have been cheating the University Of Florida School Of Nursing by not participating. They have asked me to come and participate in the post- graduate events, and I guess one of my alliances to the University of Florida is to come back home and help our younger nurses, and show our younger nurses how there is room out here, after nursing, or with nursing. And when you become a graduate of the University of Florida, it has a good name built up by many people, before you. And it’s a good name that you should carry on. That is my last comment. Thank you for having me.

[End of Interview]





	Audit-Edited by:	Jennifer Romero, November 15, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 20, 2019