AAHP 306; Abungu; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 306 George Abungu African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Justin Dunnavant on May 15, 2013 21 minutes | 11 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 306

Interviewee: George Abungu Interviewer: Justin Dunnavant Date: May 15, 2013



	D:	All right this is Justin Dunnavant here with Dr. George Abungu. That's A-B-U-N- G-U. At the Oral History Program at the University of Florida. Thanks again Dr. Abungu for sitting down with us. I just had a couple questions I wanted to ask you about your experiences in archaeology and some of the things you have going on right now. I know you were recently knighted by the French government; congratulations.

	A:	Thank you very much.



	D:	I was wondering, how did you get involved and interested in archaeology growing up?

	A:	Yes, thanks Justin for inviting me for this particular interview. It’s a pleasure to be here and talk to you about my experience. Now first of all, I got interested in archaeology I think at a very young age, when I was in primary school, at the age of probably 10 or 12. This mostly came from discoveries that I saw, that people were finding, especially the Leakey family. You know the old Louis Leakey and Mary Leakey. And so I followed it very keenly. And after primary I think I sort of lost touch in secondary, up to high school. And then it sort of came back again. I was very much interested in discovery at that particular time. And so when I went to university, I made the decision that I was going to do archaeology. And the University of Nairobi was offering archaeology and we enrolled for archaeology, three people, and that formed the class for that year of 1980. And we graduated 1984 with a bachelor's degree in Archaeology. Then after that proceeded to work for the National Museums of Kenya which is really the body that manages





heritage in Kenya, including archaeological sites. And so I wanted to do Paleolithic archaeology but subsequently was moved to the coast to do coastal archaeology, which is a much more recent archaeology, historical archaeology, the Swahili coast. After one year, I went to Cambridge where I did my Master's. Then I proceeded to do my Ph.D. So in general it was out of curiosity and out of need to discover and then it became a job. So I've been there stuck on it up to now and I've enjoyed it up to now.

	D:	What was it like studying archaeology at the University of Nairobi? Was it a fairly new program or a small cohort?

	A:	It was pretty small, very few people took it. I think I can imagine a class of three people but we also did history and it was under history. But we also did geomorphology which was under geography and we did geology which was under geology. And I remember the first time, our first exam in geomorphology. The professor actually forgot to set an exam specifically for the archaeology students and so put us together to do the general geomorphology questions and we protested and it went even up to the Vice Chancellor of the University and the issue was reversed and he set an exam for us, specifically for us, which he was supposed to have done. And since then he never liked us much, but we all passed that exam [Laughter]. So that's how we cruised over, borrowing the interdisciplinary approach to archaeology.

	D:	Did your peers go on to work in museum and heritage as well?





A:  Yes some of them went to universities but also worked with the museum. One of them is now in Australia, in a consultancy firm. Another one is in the Department of Anthropology at the University of Nairobi as a Lecturer. Yes.

D:   What led you to Cambridge and what was your experience like there?



	A:	That's also another very interesting element because I saw an opportunity. But exactly what led to me to Cambridge is that when I was in my second year, there was a professor Ian Hodder, who is now at Stanford. Him and his then-wife Francis they came to Kenya and they were working in Baringo, carrying out ethnoarchaeological studies and also digging. Francis was digging and Ian was collecting information and corroborating with what we were excavating. And so I got an opportunity to work with them and Ian mentioned to me, “Why don't you come to Cambridge? It's an interesting place”—after we had worked for a month. And I said, “Well I don't know.” He said, “Why don't you just try and apply?” And maybe you'd be lucky enough to get an opportunity because you're qualified. And I did apply, two of us actually out of the three we applied, and we got scholarship to do Master's and that’s how I landed in Cambridge. And after that I got another scholarship to now do a Ph.D. which was quite good because I was able to do and finalize very very quickly because of continuing. Unfortunately, my other colleague had to take a little more time because he didn't get straight into the Ph.D. but then he subsequently managed to get that. Yes. And then I came back and worked with the museum as a researcher. But I rose through the ranks of the museum after I came back and ended up Director General of the National Museums of Kenya in 1999. So from the coast where I was based, where I





enjoyed so much digging and being in the field and writing about my research, to basically somewhere you know having to manage people, an organization of about 500 people and 17 museums across the country and hundreds of sites.

But that was a fantastic experience for me because it also built me to be able to later go on my own and do my own consultancies.

	D:	So how did you get involved in international heritage? I know that a lot of your research was based in Kenya originally, but then I guess you branched off from there?

	A:	Yes, I have always been involved with international things. Being in the museum I was very much involved in capacity building at the continental level. We in Kenya had also realized that we needed who could be able to work with communities because as museum professionals we work very closely with communities in managing heritage. And so we were part of an original program called “Africa 2009,” which was a program of ICROM, National Museums of Kenya, and other African heritage institutions—Curterre which is based in France and also supported by UNESCO. And it was a program that was specifically looking at training heritage professionals to be able to not only manage heritage but be able to develop management plans that could be used in managing the heritage. It was a 3-month course and I was the first chairman of that when it started. By then already I was already publishing, working at international levels, I was exposed through World Archaeological Congresses, through different forums. So we had huge connections and networks but I think I became much more involved when I started dealing with UNESCO, dealing more





with managing these heritage and also developing capacity for the management of these particular heritage places. When I joined, we started this “Africa 2009” which subsequently then led to other things which have grown and now we have institutions in Africa that are specifically training heritage professionals that started from these programs.

	D:	Could you name a couple of those?



	A:	There is the Center for Heritage Development in Africa, it's one them, based in Mombasa which trains heritage professionals from English-speaking African countries, of which I was also the first chair of that, of the board. And then there is EPA, École du Patrimoine Africain, which is pasted in Benin in Porto Novo, which trains French speakers. Those are two very good examples that have come out of this need to train African heritage professions. But subsequently I've also been involved with other heritage training programs through other forums with UNESCO sitting at the center, more or less, particularly through the African World Heritage Fund, this is a fund that was set by states' parties of Africa and supported by other state parties to UNESCO. And its main objective is to promote heritage protection in Africa through good management, particularly World Heritage Sites, to also help African state parties to list sites into the World Heritage List and also to take away sites that are in the endangered list, to take them out of the endangered list. And I have been involved with this since its creation and one of the projects in which I was involved, which is still part of the capacity development, we started a training on nomination dossier development where we get African heritage professionals who are preparing nomination





dossiers and we mentor them and we work with them for at least a year until the nomination dossier is ready. And it involves two sessions of two weeks being in a country working together as a team, going back to your country, and then coming back with what you have developed, and then finalizing. So I've been involved at different levels with that but currently I'm much more involved more with the UNESCO work than other things.

	D:	I know after you finished with the museums you went on to start your own company, Okello Abungu Heritage Consultancies. Could you describe a little bit what led you to start your own company and what that process has been like?

	A:	What led me to start my own company is that after I left the museum, I decided that there was a need now. Of course the obvious need was to survive and live and money. That's one and I was talented, I had experience, I worked for the museum for 18 years. So I had the basis, I had the connections, I had the contacts, I had my networks—these international networks— I had friends. And so we started a small company basically sort of a family company with my wife, then we worked together. And what we did was basically to start from the house, from the home and a lot of our work was dealing with museums so we were targeting African museums and advising them on either starting new museums on developing kind of strategic plans and also working with heritage sites and from there we sort of grew slowly by slowly to cover sort of a wider area. I would like to say that through these contacts, we've been able, as a team, to work in different places. We worked in most of the African countries. We worked beyond African countries, personally I have been to the West Bank and Gaza and I didn't





go to Gaza but trained the Gaza people from West Bank. I've been to Israel. I've been to different parts of the world. So our work is small but as individuals, as professionals, we can be able to deal with anything that deals with museums, that deals with heritage conservation, that deals with heritage planning, and deals with nominations and we've done quite a number of nomination dossiers, many have gone through to be listed as sites, particularly in Africa.

	D:	So I know you're a busy man and you just finished teaching here at the University of Florida, a course on Cultural Heritage Management. What's next for you?

	A:	Next, I'm going back to Kenya tomorrow which is the 15th so I'll be in Kenya on the 16th, on the 17th. And then on the 21st, I'll be in Addis Ababa. I'm giving a paper at the celebration of the 50th anniversary of the OAU and the 10th anniversary of the AU. And also I have my company, through me, has work in Lalibela where we have been working on the management plan of the World Heritage Site of Lalibela. Lalibela, you know, is one of the most fantastic rock carved churches and was a World Heritage from the start. So we are finalizing a management plan so I'll be there until the 30th and then I'll come back home.

Then June I have a trip to China where the Chinese are setting up the Palace Museum. They're starting an institution that will be training heritage professionals from Southeast Asia but also expanding later. And I'm going there, not only the Vice-President of ICOM, which I am Vice-President of International Council of Museums, but also an African and Africanist to represent the continent—two of us. There are people coming from different places. So we'll be having discussion and then helping set up this particular center. And then I also have other





activities in South Africa which are coming. Of course apart from others in Eastern Africa where we are currently working, in places like Kilwa in Tanzania and also in Uganda, in Eritrea we are advising on the nomination dossier of Guajito. Then there's also a scheduled trip to Brazil in August. So it's quite tight, it's a little bit tight. But we're used to that and I'm used to traveling and I enjoy it and meeting people and seeing different kinds of heritage and how people practice and being able to share. But one of the most important things is that I also really enjoyed my time here and having fantastic students who are committed and seeing them apply some of the things we have discussed during the seminar was just absolutely fantastic. And of course you have excelled [Laughter].

	D:	Do you plan on teaching more in the future as you continue or do you prefer the heritage?

	A:	I do teach. I have taught here. But I don't like to confine myself so much to full time. Although I may be going to be teaching sometime, maybe for a year. But I have been involved in the University of Western Cape, University of Cape Town, Robin Island Program training heritage professionals, the University of Mauritius are actually starting a Master's program. I have been on the side, trying to assist thinking about it and working with the curricula and they are starting, I think in August. So I'm looking also forward to that. I think that my time may be required to get involved to make sure that it's started on the right foot and everything is moving well and my friend, professor Vijaya [Teelock], whom we've worked with





very well, is leading that so I'm looking forward to that too. So there may be a bit of teaching, yes.

	D:	So how do you feel about the current state of archaeology and hertiage in Africa generally? You think it's going in the right direction or could be moving a little faster?

	A:	You know for a long time archaeology and heritage in Africa was sort of a preserve of, more or less, an elite, White Western, who came and worked with the fossil hunters, sort of hunting people from the continent. But over the years I think we have now seen the development of the young talented archaeologists who have shown that they can do archaeology, they can do heritage management, they can be able to produce commendable papers that are peer- reviewed. So it is in the right direction. It took a long time because it was a preserve for a long time. During the colonial time it was more or less a “no-go” zone and that's why there were only three of us because there was no interest, we were not exposed to it. We only worked with people from outside. But I think now they have taken control and I think that it is going the right way in every part of the continent. Wherever I go I find I meet young, upcoming, talented very good archaeologists. So I think the continent is moving in the right direction. We could have moved faster if we started earlier but given time I think it will be okay.

	D:	And then I guess just one final follow up question. Do you have any advice for any future African archaeologists or anybody who's interested in getting involved in heritage?





	A:	Yeah. I think that my advice is that the field is large and we need to expand it.



And we need to go into other new areas. There are many things that have been done. For example, the Swahili coast, we have worked there for a very long time. Some of the issues are not any issues anymore but as archaeology evolves and develops in new ways of thinking and new ways of research. I think they need to be at par with the rest of the world. I would also say that we need to be there publishing more and more work, really good work that we're doing. And I think that the other thing is that we need to take archaeology to the people, public archaeology. So that the people feel that they're part and parcel of the whole thing. So, that archaeologists are not just inventors or discoverers but they are people who are working with the people on issues that people should know because then you put archaeology at the public domain. So I think that we need to move away from the “archaeologist knows it and the public doesn't,” to working with communities. We come from communities and I believe that they should also invite people, open up, as always, people from outside, particularly from the diaspora. I think that is very important that they are part and parcel of that coming back home and also looking at that heritage that belongs to everybody. In any case, Africa is the cradle of humankind so we all have a share. But our brothers who are from the diaspora have even more share because they were just from there the other day [Laughter].

	D:	Well thank you again Dr. Abungu for sitting down and talking to us. A:	You're welcome. You're welcome Justin. I wish you all the best.





	D:	Thank you and today is May 14th, 2013. [End of Interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Justin Dunnavant



	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 23, 2019