AAHP 239; Lawrence; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 239 Pauline Lawrence African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Deidre Houchen on December 8, 2011 2 hours, 6 minutes | 47 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Pauline Lawrence discusses growing up in Jamaica and attending the University of West Indies before going to graduate school at the University of Florida in the late 1960s, where she earned a PhD in entomology. She was the only woman in the program at the time she entered. She talks about the cultural differences she was not prepared for between Jamaica and Gainesville, including her encounters with racism. She also discusses her research at the University of Florida. She was hired as a professor at the University of Florida after graduation, and she talks about how the University has changed in her forty years on campus.



Keywords: [University of Florida; Alachua County, Florida; Jamaica; Integration; Black Faculty]















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 239

Interviewee: Pauline Lawrence Interviewer: Deidre Houchen Date: December 8, 2011



	H:	This is Deidre Houchen. It is December 8th. We are in Gainesville, Florida, and I’m interviewing Pauline Lawrence. Dr. Lawrence, can you please state your full name?

	L:	Pauline Olive Lawrence.



	H:	Okay. Can you tell me a little bit about where you were born and your upbringing?

	L	I was born in Buff Bay, Portland, Jamaica. Portland is a parish in the northeastern portion of the island of Jamaica. And I went to high school in Port Antonio, which is the capital of the parish. The high school was called Titchfield Secondary School. I think it’s now called Titchfield High School. It was a Methodist-based high school, and I attended Titchfield from about 1957 until 1964.

	H:	Buff Bay. Tell me a little more about Buff Bay.



	L:	Buff Bay is a small seaside town. I don’t know the population size. But also, the people would be farmers, and there’s some executives and people who work in the bank and so on. It’s a seaside town, you have lots of fishermen. And the farmers worked in banana fields and coconut plantations. And they would collect bananas from up in the Blue Mountains, bring them down to the coast, and they would put them ray-ray carts, and they would be shipped off to places like Port Antonio, where then they would be put on these banana boats and then be exported.

	H:	And you have brothers and sisters?





	L:	Yes, there were six of us in our family. There were four girls and two boys.



Unfortunately, two of my sisters have passed away. But I have a remaining sister and two brothers.

	H:	Okay. So, from Titchfield you went to where?



	L:	I went to University of the West Indies in Mona, Jamaica. Between the time I left Titchfield, which was in June of 1964, prior to my nineteenth birthday, I worked for a few months in the Jamaica library service. And then in September, I entered the University of the West Indies.

	H:	What did you originally study at the University of the West Indies?



	L:	Science. In high school, I loved science so I followed through and entered the natural sciences program at Mona. I did zoology, botany, and chemistry, and later specialized in a subsection of zoology where I wrote an honors thesis prior to graduation.

	H:	What was that subsection?



	L:	It was physiology and entomology.



	H:	Were there many women studying physiology and entomology in Jamaica at that time?

	L:	Yes. Education in Jamaica, I would say, was an area where almost everyone, in my view, was able to participate—assuming they could afford to pay for it. Or if they were able to get scholarships regardless of their economic status, could participate in education. So there was no major discrepancy between the sexes as far as sciences were concerned. So in our zoology or botany classes, I would say there would be about a fifty-fifty split between boys and girls, young men and





young women. And in the final year of our honors program, there were six of us who were selected to participate in the honors research program, which was one in which you spent a whole year focused on specialized study; research, we would conduct seminars and debates among ourselves. We would research specific topics and have a presentation, each of us would make specific presentations and the others would critique it under the guidance of a professor. And at the end of the year, we would write a thesis, which was evaluated. And in addition, we would take a final exam, which was graded in London out of the University of London.

	H:	Hm. So, it sounds like you have always been involved in scholarly pursuits. Was that a love of yours from childhood? Did you dream of being a scientist?

	L:	I don’t know that I sat back and had daydreams as some people might have had.



But I think it was sort of inculcated in us from childhood; number one, that we have some educational pursuits. With respect to the science, I think it came to me naturally. I think the most significant memory I have that may have contributed to my pursuing science as a career was, my dad planted a bunch of tomato plants, and my job was to go out and check to see when the tomatoes were ripe. And I would go early in the mornings, and there was a certain variety of tomatoes that had little protrusions at the tip, and they were the first part of the fruit to ripen. And I love tomatoes so much I would bite off the ripe tips, and come in and tell my father that some animal had eaten the tips. And so, he caught me one day while I was doing that. I would put sugar in my hand, and go out in the garden. And as I inspected the plants to see which tomatoes were ripe, I would





just start biting off the nice, ripe parts, and he caught me doing that. And then, when I told him that these animals, maybe some insects, were doing it, he said I needed to find the insects and bring them to him. So, that’s when I started collecting insects. There were some, what we call stinkbugs, that used to pierce the fruit. Now, these did not have biting mouth parts. [Laughter] I didn’t know that at the time. They were piercers, so they’d suck the juice from the tomato plants. But I would have my little jar, and I’d go out and find as many of those insects as I could. So, that was, in a way, a punishment to back up the fib that I was telling. But at the same time, it gave me the opportunity to observe what these little creatures were doing. And that’s how my interest in entomology started.

	H:	Just as a side question, how much do you think farmers—so, farmers in Jamaica who are growing crops today, and even back then, how much do they know about the insects that are on their plants?

	L:	I think they know a lot. And they gave these insects some very interesting names. For example, these same bugs that I’m talking about, these are truly “bugs.” I don’t like when people call insects “bugs.” There’s a certain subgroup of insects that are called bugs. And this particular one was, indeed, a bug that used to pierce the tomatoes and other vegetables. As a result of the damage, the fruit would be malformed. And the farmers used to call them Mary Grudgeful, and almost as if they’d be grudging. You know, they’re begrudging, so they damage the fruit. So. And they would tell you about white flies, and other, like caterpillars that would live in cabbage, and they had their own names for them. They would describe—I know one lady would described to me the life cycle of a caterpillar.





But she didn’t seem to relate one to the other. She would say, well, for example, “Two weeks after I plant this cabbage, I see these little dots that look like eggs.” And then she would say, “Two weeks later, I see these worms. And then, after a while they disappear,” she’d say. “And then, suddenly, I see some things that look like dead twigs.” And that how she’s describing the developmental stages, and I’m not sure that she knew that the eggs gave rise to the larvae or so. But she could tell you the temporal sequence of the different stages and so on. So a lot of the farmers knew exactly what insects did. They could describe the insects even though they didn’t have the scientific names, and they just gave them colloquial names. So yes, they knew a lot about—I think—about insects.

	H:	So, take me forward from the University of the West Indies, to an honors thesis, to the next stage in your career’s development.

	L:	While I was a student at the University of the West Indies, during my last year, I met this African, Dr. Samuel L. Paige who came to visit us. And in fact, he was visiting his colleague, who was someone he had met at the Imperial College of London. And it turns out that this man was my research advisor, and they were friends as students at the Imperial College of London. So when Dr. Paige assumed the position as entomologist in the Ministry of Agriculture in Jamaica, he used the opportunity to come to University of the West Indies—we call it UWI—to visit his old friend John Parnell, who was, as I said, the supervisor of my thesis committee. And Dr. Parnell introduced us to Dr. Paige, who began to ask questions like, “And what are you going to do after you graduate?” And “Why are you going to do that?” And so on, so forth. And I told him that I was interested





in doing something that would be of benefit to the country and to agriculture. Because I should mention that agriculture is so important to Jamaicans; in my day it was considered a wonderful thing to work in the agricultural industry. There was no shame or anything like that. So, to want to pursue a career in an agricultural field that would be of benefit to the country was something to be applauded. And Dr. Paige encouraged me to do that, and told me about the Ministry of Agriculture. That he was aware that there were positions available there. So, upon graduation, I applied for a position there and went to work under Dr. Paige’s supervision. And while I worked there, based upon my performance I was approached by the chief technical officer about the possibility of studying, doing advanced degrees. And that both my academic performance and my work performance was sufficiently outstanding—and I’m trying to be modest here— that the government would be pleased to consider an application for a scholarship, academic-based scholarship to study abroad. And as a result, I applied for the scholarship, which was also contingent upon my being accepted by an institution abroad. And I was accepted by two universities: Guelph, and University—well, Guelph in Canada, and the University of Florida. Primarily because I applied to the University of Florida because Dr. Paige had been here, and felt it would be a good fit as far as the climate, et cetera, to the climate in Jamaica. So after having completed a year of actual work in the Ministry of Agriculture, I was awarded a scholarship and came to University of Florida to pursue the master’s degree on Jamaican scholarship.

	H:	How old were you at that—when you were working at the Ministry of Agriculture?





	L:	Twenty-two, twenty-three.



	H:	Did you like the job that you were doing?



	L:	Yes, I loved the job, because it involved traveling all around the island doing surveys, doing research prior to doing the surveys of, say, the distribution of insect pests and different agricultural crops. And I learned quite a bit as I did that.

	H:	Do you feel as though what you learned in the field there at all helped you as you transitioned into a master’s program at the University of Florida?

	L:	Yes, from the standpoint that it gave me some idea as to the types of problems that needed to be addressed. And as a matter of fact, when I decided to work on a project for my master’s thesis, my target was the same bug that I found in my yard while I was eating those tomatoes. And so, I was—the same species, actually, occurs both in Jamaica and in Florida. And so, that’s what I started on for my master’s. So yes, the experience there in Jamaica did lay a good initial foundation for at least giving me some guidance as to what project I was going to do. I didn’t end up writing my thesis on that because of some issues with culturing those particular insects in the laboratory, but at least it was a good start.

	H:	So, what year did you begin your master’s? L:	In 1969. The fall of September 1969.

	H:	At the—



	L:	At the University of Florida.



	H:	Was that your first time in America from Jamaica? L:	Yes, first time.





	H:	Okay. And what did you notice that you remember about the differences between the cultures here in America and Jamaica?

	L:	Well, the first one was that I couldn’t understand the Southern accent, had a little difficulty. And actually, there were people of color who thought I was pretending. Because especially in the dorm, which is where I lived as a foreign student, the janitorial staff, many had a strong Southern accent. And some of them, those with whom I interacted, weren’t quite aware that there were other Blacks from places other than Africa. And so, it gave me an opportunity to sit down and talk with them, and learn from them, and they from me. For example, one person didn’t know that were dollars, other countries use dollars outside the United States, that’s number one. The other thing was, they used to bring the cooking staff and—yes, primarily the cooking staff that served in the Broward Hall area and so on, they used to have cafeterias there. And they used to bring them in a bus. And all of these people wore white uniforms. And I wrote home to my parents to say how wonderful it was that they brought all the nurses to work in the mornings. Because to me, the people who wore white were nurses in Jamaica; nurses wore white all the time. So I saw that these people, mostly women, dressed in white in this bus early in the morning. And my assumption was that they were nurses; turns out that they were the cooking staff there. The other thing that was a big surprise to me was that there were no Black people in any visible way. There was no—no significant, or even miniscule, number of Blacks in any position of authority. They were either working in the cafeteria, or they were janitors. And I was saddened to see older men, old men, some in their





eighties, who worked as janitors. They would say, in the hall, “Man in the hall.” I didn’t understand what they were saying initially, and it turned out they were saying “man in the hall” because they worked in a women’s dorm. But when I engaged some of these people, they were—some of them served as ministers and so on, but the only jobs they could get mostly was as janitors. And the saddest thing that I saw and felt was that they could not even use the bathrooms that they were even cleaning. And the man explained—when I asked him, “Well, how do you manage, if you have to come to work at five o’clock in the morning, and you don’t leave again until midday or so?” He said they had to make their own facilities. They would take containers in their cars in order to be able to use the bathroom, because they weren’t allowed to use even the men’s bathrooms in the dorms that they were cleaning. So, that was my first awakening to the plight or the condition of a lot of Black people working on the university campus at the time.

	H:	I heard you say that that saddened you. Did it make you afraid at all as a Black person?

	L:	No, it didn’t make me afraid. It made me very sad. Really very sad. And of course, I would write home to my parents again, and I made the correction about the nurses. And then described to them how people who were older then my father at the time—or some around his age—these men to whom I would bow to in the mornings—because of course, growing up we were always taught to respect our elders. So, I always acknowledged these people as they worked through the dorms. And to find that they were under this unfortunate edict that





just to use the bathroom you have to find someplace else to go. And it didn’t sit very well with me. But I wasn’t afraid.

	H:	Were there other—either other students of color in your dorm from other countries, or other students of color from America in your dorm?

	L:	No, there were no—I was not, put it this way, I was not—even though I was a graduate student, and I guess many graduate students probably lived off- campus, as a foreign student that was the safest place for me to be. And I guess because the university could arrange for my housing, plus living off-campus as a person of color, especially a female, afterwards I realized was not a common thing. So, it was safe for me to be on campus. I did not see—in my dorm, I didn’t see too many, maybe one or two other students, and they were undergraduates. And I never really did get a chance to find out what their areas were. But it was not normal to see many Blacks in the dorm, at least not in 1969.

	H:	So did you have—were you able to form social relationships with the White students in your dorm?

	L:	Yes, yes. In a way of course, I was older, but what was interesting was that they seemed to know more about the world then I did. Some things that I just didn’t know about, like where to go drinking and so on. Not that I didn’t go drinking, but they knew where to go for parties and stuff. But I never really went off campus for the most part, because indeed, for that reason, I was afraid. When I found out about the surrounding areas and so on, I was afraid. So, I didn’t really go off campus. Most of the activities were either on campus or in housing close to campus. For example on Southwest 13th Street, there was an apartment complex





called “Sin City.” I didn’t like the name, but lots of foreign students were there. So my interaction was with other Caribbean students—although there weren’t too many of those—and African students, and certainly White students. And there was a small but quite active international community. There was also an International Student Center. It was run by a women called Mrs. Laurie, and I forgotten the name of the Cournel who was in charge of international students at the time. The international program was certainly nowhere near where it is now. But Mrs. Laurie made sure that whenever a foreign student came, that she would put them in touch with other students from their country. In my case, as I said, there weren’t too many Jamaicans. But a group of us, from—there were some people from England, Greece, and Ireland, who were here just in very small numbers—we got together and formed an International Club. And I found that to be very enriching. There were Pakistanis, and Greek, and so on, and we would have potluck suppers and bring different dishes, and we would meet and just have a wonderful time. And then, during the spring there was International student week. And some of us would go on the WRUF and some of the university—I don’t remember the university television station. We would talk about our country, our culture, and even do a little dance demonstration to show what’s from our country. But as the numbers of students from each country increased, they would break off and form their own club, once they got up to a certain number.

	H:	So you entered school in [19]69, in the master’s program, getting a degree in what?





	L:	In Entomology.



	H:	Okay, in Entomology. Which was in which department, the college? L:	In the College of Agriculture.

	H:	Okay, okay. And graduated with your master’s, and then continued at the University of Florida to get a PhD. And what was your, was your PhD as well on—you said your master’s thesis started to be on this particular bug. What did you end up studying, and then work in for your PhD?

	L:	While I was studying this bug, and I ran into some culture problems, as I read the literature I became increasingly aware of the preponderance of pesticide use on these fruit crops. And I got a little bit turned off by that. Of course—not of course, but when I was in University in Jamaica, I read Silent Spring. And now, seeing all this widespread use of pesticides, and hearing the damage done to wildlife, et cetera, I began to rethink the role of pesticides, and my involvement in entomology. Because at that time, most of the thinking was, “How can I control this bug, or this other insect pest?” And so my thinking started to revolve around beneficial insects. What are the alternatives? Or what are the other strategies that one could use instead of just using pesticides? I never got to the point to say, “Never use pesticides,” but recognized that pesticide use was too broad and far. Its use was just too broad. So, I started looking at beneficial insects like lacewings that are beautiful insects—not only in how they look, but how they behave. And these are insects that in their immature stages, the larvae would crawl around on leaves and look for eggs of other insects. And then would puncture the eggs and suck out the juices out of them. [Laughter] You may





consider that a little gross, but that’s a better way of controlling an insect then spraying it. And then, there were some others who would catch smaller insect larvae and feed on them. And so, I combined the study of the impact of pesticides on beneficial insects. So, I studied the role of common pesticides on population of lacewings. That was what my thesis, my master’s thesis was about.

	H:	Okay, that brings up a few questions for me. One, I could imagine that at that time, the notion of organic farming, and this widespread environmental movement—I mean, as you mentioned, Silent Spring. So, there were people thinking about the effects of pesticides. But there was—from my understanding, it was a fairly narrow segment of the population: academics, and naturalists, kind of.

	L:	And those naturalists were considered to be hippies.



	H:	Yes! But now, it’s almost common knowledge. So, how did you see you work in relationship to that community, and how accepted was that work within the larger academy?

	L:	The acceptance of the work was not up for discussion, because, fortunately, as an academic institution, the selection of the research project was up to the student and the professor. And in my case, being on a Jamaican scholarship, the topic I wanted to investigate was respected, I think, by my supervisors. I think they were very respectful of people coming from abroad under the auspices of their government; that if that was the project that the student wanted to work on, and it was accepted by the government, as long as it was possible to do it, there wasn’t any difficulty. So I had absolutely no resistance from the people in my





department or the supervisor of my research doing it. I had no direct interaction with the so-called naturalists. And I say that, not in a pejorative way, from two standpoints. The Entomology department, being in Agriculture was separate from the Zoology department, which was in Liberal Arts and Sciences. And intellectually, the people in Zoology would be considered more to be naturalist.

Asking questions, “How does this work? How do these systems interact?” And so on. Whereas, for whatever reason, the Entomology department, I guess because of the mandate of the extension and so on, the role of the institution was for pest control and the development of agriculture. And they’d do whatever was needed to ensure that crops would be produced in a cost-effective way. And certainly, pest control was an important aspect of that. Furthermore, the pesticide companies invested a lot of money in research; they paid for a lot of the research at that time that many professors were conducting, and gave a lot of grants.

Because, of course, institutions like the National Science Foundation, et cetera, would fund more naturalist type of research. And so, the people in Agriculture, and in Entomology in particular, would get their funds not from National Science Foundation, but from pesticide companies. So you can see that there was a vested interest, sort of, for the researcher to use the pesticide money to conduct you know, whatever they want. But there definitely wasn’t an objection to doing non-pesticide work, or to determining or to study negative impacts of pesticides. Now, if my work had a broader impact on some major crop in Florida, such as negative impact of pesticide use on citrus, I don’t know what the response would be. But given the scope of my own work, I had no problem.





	H:	Do you feel as though the climate in Entomology today is similar—at the University of Florida, or at any university—that there is still relationship between pesticide companies, grant makers, and the field, and the department? Or has the environmental movement changed that slightly?

	L:	Oh, yeah. I think the environmental movement has changed that significantly. You still have a lot of pesticide companies investing in certain areas, but I think it’s broader now. For example, there are integrated pest management programs, where not only beneficial insects used but pesticides are also used in a strategic way. And some other chemicals such as attractants that are non-pesticidal, but are used to attract some pest into a particular area that would allow for more targeted pesticide use. So those areas fall under integrated pest management. So I’d say if you went into our Entomology department, and others across the country, there would be a greater emphasis on the topic of integrated pest management as opposed to just unadulterated pesticide use.

	H:	Not sure how to ask this question: what is the difference in the study of insects just for the sake of the study of insects, and the study of insects as categorized as pests with regard to crops, cattle—and are both of those two things happening in the field of entomology?

	L:	Yes, both are happening in the field of entomology. Now, the preponderance of pests as far as agriculture is concerned tends to be confined mostly to an entomology department. But the general study of insects for the sake of studying insects, the zoology department, as well, focuses on these wonderful creatures: let’s find out what they do, how they behave, and so on. Whereas entomology is





more designed for the control. However, there are aspects of entomology now that relate to ecotourism that has nothing to do with the control of a pest, and that is done in our entomology department as well as other entomology departments. We see now this Butterfly Institute here in Gainesville, the director of which originated in a zoology department, Dr. Tom Emmell started the whole thing; but faculty in that area are now in the museum as well as in the Entomology department. So I don’t see our entomology department now, both here in Florida and for the most part across the country, as being just for the pesticide destruction of insects. But there are aspects that involve why, what, where, how do insects function. And as a matter of fact, for my dissertation, it didn’t have anything to do with pesticides at all. It had to do with basic behavior, and development, and so on of beneficial insects, and how they relate to their pest host with which they interact. So in fact, when students ask me, or other people ask me about entomology: entomology is really just the study of insects, period. It’s not the control of insects. So within that context, you can have some people using pesticides on insects; some people looking at how insects detoxify pesticides, which is a more physiological, biochemical function; some people look at how insects behave, what time of day or night do they function—for example, mosquitos: when do they bite? That can impact how you try to control them. And then, some people can look at the dynamics between or among insect insect populations in nature: how do they relate to the general food web, how do they relate to a particular habitat, and so on. And that sort of thing happens both in the Zoology department as well as the Entomology department.





	H:	Which of those did you spend the bulk of your career discovering about insects?



	L:	The physiology, biochemical part of it. My focus was on, how does this insect develop? How does it relate to its host? Because I studied beneficial insects. How is it a successful beneficial insect? What does it do to be able to efficiently suppress the pest insect with which it interacts? And what changes does it bring about in a host? The pest I call the ‘host,’ in my study. And how does it function? Why is it a successful beneficial insect? And what does the host or pest insect do to respond to its presence? I just say parenthetically that just as we as people are attacked by different viruses, or pests, or parasites of some sort, we react to its presence. So does another insect reacting to the presence of a parasite. So, I was interested of immune responses, some physiological impacts, such as changes in the blood composition of the host when it is attacked by the parasite or the beneficial insect. What does the beneficial insect do to ensure that it can overcome the defenses of the pest host? That sort of thing. So, my focus was more on the understanding the interaction a the beneficial insect and its pest host to explain why this beneficial insect is so beneficial. As opposed to, “I’m going to control it, this pest.” So one could regard my own study as basic science forming the foundation for a number of downstream activities.

	H:	In that regard, I’ve read—probably on the University of Florida website, and looking up your name—accolades regarding something you discovered, the technical words that I can’t recall or replicate. Could you tell me a little bit more about that work that they were citing?





	L:	Okay. Let’s talk about the pest first, because my study focused on a tripartite system: the pest, then the beneficial insect, and then another agent that was used by the beneficial insect for it to effectively control the pest. The pest insect is a fruit fly. It attacks citrus and other tropical and sub-tropical fruits, here in the state of Florida as well as in several Caribbean islands. In fact, I started working on that fruit fly pest when I was in Jamaica while I worked at the Ministry of Agriculture. That pest was introduced into Florida some years ago, and it attacks a variety of tropical and sub-tropical fruits. Citrus is one of the potential crops.

And you know citrus is a major export crop in the state. The use of pesticides to control the fruit fly in fruit is very difficult, because the insect lives in the tissues of the fruit. So whether it is citrus—an orange or a grapefruit—or a guava, the fruit fly female puts her egg inside the tissue. And then, the larva, which hatches from the egg, develops in the protection of the fruit tissues. And only when they’re mature and ready to change into the next stage do they actually leave the fruit.

So, by that time, the fruit is completely useless for sale. And so, you can see the problem for people growing crops for economic benefit. Use of the very toxic pesticide that would stay around in the fruit to kill the pest, you could see also would have deleterious consequences for the consumer. So the question is, what could one use to have some effect without impacting negatively the consumer?

There is a little wasp, a tiny teeny wasp, that is related to wasps and bees but it doesn’t bite people; was imported from Hawaii, and Hawaii had gotten it from other places, but the origin of this species was African country. But they rear these wasps in large quantities in Hawaii, and it was imported into Florida by my





major professor Dr. Richard Baranowski at the University of Florida Extension Tropical Research Education Center down in Homestead. And so, they would—

	H:	Could you spell his last name for me?



	L:	B-A-R-A-N-O-W-S-K-I. Richard Baranowski. He was a wonderful mentor. And they introduced this wasp, and released it into the orchards down there in Florida, and found that the fruit fly pest population was significantly reduced. And this is something that was shown in Hawaii and so on, against another important fruit fly, called the Mediterranean fruit fly, that is a devastating pest to citrus in California, and even in Hawaii itself. So since this fruit fly is related to that fruit fly, using the same beneficial wasp was in a way a no-brainer. They brought the wasp in and it did a significant job. When I was doing my dissertation I was interested in determining the optimal time at which you should release this pest for it to have the most impact on the fruit fly population. When I joined the faculty in the Zoology department, the research that I had conducted as a graduate student led to a number of questions that were unanswered. How does this wasp get to do what it’s doing? Why is it so successful and other wasps aren’t? So I continued my work. And in the process, I discovered that the reason why this wasp is so good at what it does is because it has an accomplice. And that accomplice is a virus. So, the female wasp, she puts her eggs inside the body of the fruit fly larva while it is in the fruit. She can identify the location of the larva within the fruit without seeing it, and introduces her egg inside the body of the larva. So, that wasp egg develops and produces a wasp because that wasp egg’s larvae would eat the tissues of the fruit fly larvae. So at the end, instead of





having fruit flies emerging, you have wasps emerging. And the wonderful thing about these—“bio-control,” they’ll call it—is that it’s self-perpetuating. As long as there’s a fruit fly population, there’ll always be wasps. It’s not like pesticides that you have to go out there every number of months to spray. Once you release the parasite in the field, and as long as they can survive on the host and reproduce, you always will have next generation. Now, there are times when if the population falls below some critical level in relation to the pest population, you may want to do what we call “inundated releases” to put in another set of the wasps. But the point is that they perpetuate themselves. But the question is, why were they so good at it? And in my studies, I found that there is this virus that is carried by the female wasp. So whenever she puts an egg into the body of the fruit fly larvae in the fruit, she puts a little bit of virus. And the virus then destroys the immune response of the fruit fly. Pretty much like—and I’m not trying to say that it’s an HIV virus—but it behaves just like an HIV, in that it destroys those parts of the fruit fly that would normally defend itself against invasion, which is what the HIV virus does. So this virus, carried by the female wasp and packaged with her eggs—so, for each egg she puts in, she puts in this virus, and then the virus gets to work and starts to destroy the cells of the fruit fly host, so that the wasp can then go on and develop without being destroyed. So, my study over the years as a faculty member has been to characterize that virus; it was discovered as a virus by me, and so my study has involved characterizing the genes of the virus, describing the development of it, and sequencing the





genome. And of course, it not having been discovered as a virus before meant it fell to me to then further characterize it. So, that’s kind of a quick summary of—

	H:	And that all falls under entomology? It seems like it gets smaller and—you know, I don’t know if “smaller” is the right word, but what you’re studying is more minute: first it’s just pest, now it’s the beneficial, now it’s the virus, and now it’s the genes of the virus and the genome.

	L:	But in order, as you understand nowadays with molecular study, even though you use those microbial or micro- techniques to study certain things, you don’t stay down in the sub-cellular area. You come back up again. So, by understanding, for example, some of the genes of this virus, what these genes are, I’m able to relate it to genes from related viruses. And since we know from people doing other studies on those genes, who have done functional studies on what do these genes do, you can have some relationship between what these genes might be doing in this virus in relation to what similar genes in other viruses or other organisms might be doing. And then, that’s one possible way you can use this information to elaborate other studies. If you want to focus now, a novel approach to controlling the insect without the virus being present, you see what I mean? Or if you use it in other areas like in the pharmaceutical industry.

They now use, say, other viruses, adenoviruses and so on, as vectors, or quote- unquote messengers, so to speak, to carry some molecular message, to carry some gene into tissues to turn on something. So even though this virus may or may not eventually be used to control the pest, it could be used as a vector for some novel gene in another system. In the same way that we’ve seen the gene





from fireflies that cause that green color, the flashing of the fireflies? They’ve been able to identify the gene, and they’ve been able to remove that gene and put it in other systems to track where those proteins and other stuff go. So, this work is not only just identifying what makes the wasps such a good agent; it’s an important piece of information in my view, but it also provides a potential tool down the road, now that the genome has been sequenced. For someone understanding the genome, the physical construction of the genome, to say, “Okay, I know this gene is in this part of the genome. We can remove it and insert a gene of similar size but different function, in order that we could use this little virus in some of the system.” So, although we have gone down, we can come back up. We’re not just going to go down and stay down. Come back up and relate it to function. And so.

	H:	Explain to me why you consider your work basic science? L:	Yes

	H:	Because it’s transferable across all science.



	L:	Yes, all science. Including, frankly, medicine. Because if a pharmacology company or a pharmaceutical company wanted to use it, there are things they could probably use it for. And it could be used in agriculture, too. You’ve heard of genes that are used in plants to inhibit feeding of pests on that plant. I know some of it is controversial, but you don’t know down the line what you might need a vector for. So this would be a molecular vector now that the sequencing has been done.

	H:	Wow.





	L:	And by the way, it also tells you something—well, to me—that is interesting about the immune responses. Some of us look at the insects as just pests, when they’re so much we can learn from insects. We didn’t know much about the immune response of insects. In fact, we didn’t think there was an immune response. But if you stop and think about it, insects, by living in the soil and places like that, where they encounter a variety microbial agents and so on, must have a way with dealing with those. And in this case, where one encounters a beneficial insect that’s introducing the virus—and probably not just the virus; there are other bacteria and microbes that are injected into the insect. How does it address those issues? And through the study of insects, we understand a lot about immune response, innate immune response in particular, because the acquired immune response such as antibodies and so on occur in mammals and vertebrates—well, humans, for example. But if we just see insects as something to kill, I think we’re missing a lot. And I should also say that Drosophila, which everybody knows is an insect, is basically an important model used in medical science.

	H:	What did you say? What was the word you said? L:	Model.

	H:	No, Drosophila?



	H:	Oh, the fruit, the vinegar fly. Like when you have the bananas and so on that are overripe.

	L:	Yes.





	H:	Those little creatures that fly around? They are very, very important. The genome has been sequenced. They’ve found a number of developmental genes that have homologues in humans, and we’ve learned a lot from drosophila that has been used to find similar genes in humans. And in some cases, they serve some of the same functions. In the past, when I used to speak to students about doing research projects in my lab, and if they wanted to go to medical school, they’d say, “Oh, no. I wouldn’t work on insects, because I want to work on insects because I want to be a doctor,” not understanding that some of the important findings that have helped medical sciences came from insects. A quick example I’ll give you has to do with steroid hormones and how they impact the genome: it was work with insects, because insects have hormones that some of the basic structure is like testosterone, and estrogen, et cetera, in our bodies; some major part of the molecule. And it is in studies with insects that it was found that the hormone binds to the DNA in the nucleus to turn on genes. That came from Drosophila. And then it’s been used to transfer into people in the human biology. So, insects contribute far more than we think.

	H:	Yeah, acknowledge.



	L:	Right. And we don’t have to control, we don’t have to kill them all to feel like you’re doing entomology, because entomology is more than just killing bugs.

	H:	So for you as an entomologist—you said that your schooling in Jamaica was essentially fifty-fifty gender-wise. Did you find your PhD program at the University of Florida similar?





	L:	No! [Laughter] I was the—I was one of three females in my graduate class. I think in my master’s program, there were only three females doing graduate work. One lady was married and had children, and actually she was in Nematology, which is—but they’re in the same department. And she kind of did it part-time; her husband was a faculty member. And so, if she felt like taking a course, she would take a course. Another one was an Asian lady and she dropped out to have children. So I was the only female in the graduate program at that time, and the only one of color.

	H:	How was that experience?



	L:	Very interesting. My focus was on getting my research done, being a good student, and returning to Jamaica. I wasn’t fully aware of the social, and so on, things that were going on. But I did notice a number of things: there were a few young men in the class that were from southern part of the state whose parents were farmers. They had citrus groves and things like that. And there was one young man in particular who, he would never speak to me. He would never ask me a question. He would ask one of my classmates that was pretty close to me, and the fellow would say, “Ask Pauline. She knows.” He would never ask me.

He’d never sit beside me. If there was an empty chair, and the only empty chair in the class, he would go and get another chair from somewhere. He would never sit beside me. There were a few others who would use inappropriate language that at the time I didn’t really see as, let’s say racial; I saw as being a bit uncouth.

	H:	Can you give me an example?





	L:	Yes, one would call me “that gal”; another would call me “hot pants,” and would be inclined to make more sexually-related jokes. And now, by this time, there would be a few other females coming into the program. And I remember once going into a room, a small room, where two of them were sitting, and one of them made a comment about—at the time I didn’t understand what it meant. I knew it didn’t sound right. But it was like, “A pity!” I didn’t understand the context, but I knew that it was not a compliment. And so, the only thing that I could say to him: “Where I come from, when a lady enters the room, a gentleman stands up.” That’s the only thing I could think of to say to him. Of course, he was very embarrassed, and after that he was never rude. But he avoided me. But I found that some of the comments that would be made—including by more senior graduate students, men—had to do with either something with smoking marijuana, drinking, or something sexual. And it always embarrassed me. So, I would stay away from them. Another thing that I found was that several of the fellows were, they had families. And if they were having a get-together, even among graduate students, they would invite each other, but I would never be invited. I had never been invited to any of the social activities there. There was one graduate student who I’ll always remember fondly, and his name was Edward Farnworth. He worked in Jamaica for a while. And when I came to America, he volunteered to meet me at the airport, and suggested that I stay with his family for about a week prior to the dorm being open. And although he was a graduate student, and he lived in—

	H:	White or Black?





	L:	White. And he lived in Corry Village. He had ten children. Ten children, yes. But he found—he made room at his table for me. Himself and his wife, her name was Peg, were very warm, very courteous, and saw to my comfort. And we kept in touch. Interestingly, she was, as I said, the housewife, the mother, and had ten kids. And later on, she went to do her bachelor, her master’s, and her PhD.

	H:	Wow. That’s fantastic. Which do you feel was more prevalent, or more of an isolating factor: your gender or your race? Or can you even separate the two?

	L:	I can’t. I told my chairman the other day, “I’m a whole package.” Because there is this cultural thing: even though Jamaica is so worldly—meaning we are found in all parts, every corner of the world so to speak—and there is so much communication, et cetera, we still have a culture and certain—well, especially in my family. So there was a certain way we were brought up. There are certain courtesies, politeness, and so on. Maybe if I could pinpoint anything, I would say that there were certain cultural expectations of a Black female. I was not aware of those initially, but as time went on I became aware of it. For example, people didn’t expect me to speak the way I spoke. And very often, even though I think I spoke good English, they would tell me they didn’t understand what I was saying. And that’s probably because they were expecting me to have a Southern accent. I don’t see that necessarily as being racial or so; maybe they just associated Blackness with having a Southern accent. Nothing is wrong with that, but I felt that their minds weren’t open enough to receive—you’re either an African or you’re an American, and they don’t see any other. The other thing was, culturally, how I ate. I went to the Union, and I would—you know, Jamaica used to be a





colony of the British. So a lot of our behaviors have some root in that. So I ate with my knife and fork the way the Europeans do, and I received a lot of stares that were very uncomfortable from Black and White. Just, you know, people just kind of looking: “What’s that?” And then, there are my personal styles of courtesy and so on. I did expect the door to be opened for me. I didn’t chastise anyone for it, but it was just natural if I were coming behind a young man that he would keep the door open. And as a basic courtesy, if there was a woman in front of me, I would expect that it would be held open as a human courtesy. In those days, that didn’t happen. I’ve had many doors fly back in my face. Probably out of not necessarily racial things, but just inconsideration. Just being inconsiderate, beg your pardon, and so on. The other thing also had to do with all the people. I had a lot of respect for older people, and courtesies that sometimes even they did not really appreciate. Or in the case of some Southern, older people, did not welcome. For example, I remember once there was this lady having difficulty getting up the stairs. So, I’d step forward to kind of help her, and she kind of flashed me off. Just didn’t want to—and made a comment about the racial part.

	H:	So this was a White woman who you were naturally helping up stairs, because that’s what your accustomed to—

	L:	Yeah, and she made some comment. I don’t remember what it is, but I remember it was racial. There was another case when I decided I’d go off campus as a student to find an apartment. So I made a call, and this lady was very nice, and she told me how much she liked my accent, and asked me where I was from.

And I told her that I was from the West Indies. And she was saying, “Oh, I like





people from So-on and so forth,” and so, we made an appointment. I made a point of saying I’m from Jamaica, the West Indies; not East Indies like India, but West Indies. And she appeared to understand. And then, when I drove up in her front yard, she came out and said, “Go around the back.” And I didn’t believe she was talking to me. I looked around and saw there wasn’t anybody else, but then I thought maybe she thought I was somebody else. So I continued up the front, went on the veranda, and she said, “No, you go around the back!” And I said, “No I am such-and-such a person.” And her face changed completely, and she said, “I don’t talk to Negroes, I don’t associate with them.” And I said, “I’m the person with whom you spoke, and I’m from Jamaica.” She said “Oh, I worked with some of those at the VA, but I don’t associate with them. And if the neighbors saw me talking to you, they would not like it.”

	H:	What year was this? L:	This was 1971.

H:  In Gainesville, Florida? L:  In Gainesville, Florida. H:  Okay.

L:   The women lived off of 23rd Avenue, so this was Northwest 23rd. So, she was on the side of—it was east of 13th Street. Somewhere there between Northwest 23rd and 13th Street.

	H:	Okay. Okay. So 1970 was a big year at the University of Florida. Particularly a big year for race and for race relations. Can you talk me through how you witnessed it? Or whether or not you witnessed it?





	L:	Yes, I witnessed it, and was a part of it. As a graduate student doing my master’s, I became aware of a Black graduate student association. And they had meetings in the Union. So I went there to hear what was happening, because I started to feel that I was a member of the university community, and just wanted to be informed. One of the things that—when all of the grievances were aired, and even though I couldn’t exactly relate to all of them because I was more focused on coming from the dorm to classes and so on. I hardly even went across campus too much. Having heard all of the grievances, there was a point at which students decided they were going to withdraw from school in protest.

And I said to them, “Are you crazy? You’ve come for an education! If you withdraw from school, you won’t have an education.” Because I was coming at it from a very narrow point. And remember, being here for me was a privilege. And going home without a degree was a crime. [Laughter] And so, what do you tell your parents? You have come on a scholarship, they have given you this money. What, are you going to go back and tell them that you are protesting? I said, “Well, what about your education?” And I completely missed, did not understand the fact that even if they had left—well, I knew that they had the opportunity to come back. But if I left, I didn’t. Because I was on a student visa. As part of it, you had to be in school. You could not be out of school for any period. Not even—to be out for a semester, you had to have been ill or something. And they thought that I was—“What’s wrong with this Jamaican?” It’s either you were an Uncle Tom, or, “You guys come with some weird ideas!” Because, in turn, they did not understand that I was a foreigner. In fact, I think that sort of thing was part





of a misunderstanding. Because most Americans don’t understand what it is to be foreign in America. Nor do they understand some of the immigration, at least at that time. So naturally, I could not and did not resign from school. Incidentally, my department heard that I had participated—remember, I’m the only Black female in the department. They sent word—and this is to show how things can be manipulated—they sent word to my employer, like, the government of Jamaica, Ministry of Agriculture, to say that “Ms. Lawrence is interfering in the domestic affairs of the United States.” So you could see how it being worded that way, I could have gotten into trouble.

	H:	Right! Big trouble. L:	Big trouble.

	H:	Big trouble.



	L:	Fortunately, they knew me at home in the ministry, and I could explain myself. In addition to that, though, they did have the picket in front of Tigert Hall. And I felt strongly about some of the issues. And so, for the first time in my life, and never since, did I pick up a picket sign and march with the students in front of Tigert Hall. That was when I became really informed about some of the exclusions and isolations of Black people. That was my first full frontal awareness of some of the things.

	H:	Were there Black American graduate students at the university at that time? L:	Not in my department. I know there was one Black—no, no she was from

Jamaica. All of the Blacks that I knew were foreigners. They were either Africans or Jamaicans. Maybe there was one person I know in History from Barbados who





is—well, he’s Barbadian. I won’t even address his racial thing; he looks White, but you know, he had Black people in his family. So there weren’t too many—

	H:	Black Americans.



	L:	Black Americans of whom I was aware. There started to be a group of students that came in on a Rockefeller program that I think Dr. Davis made a reference to in his interview. I think one of those students ended up in my department.

	H:	Okay. So, did you have an opportunity to form relationships with Blacks in Gainesville, either through the janitorial, the cafeteria, or the larger community, outside of the students with whom you were marching?

	L:	Yes, in the dorm there was an older gentleman; at the time he was about eighty.



He said he was a minister. And I was interested in Black American history and things, and he invited me to his house. He was a minister, and he had a wonderful family, a big family. And they put on this fabulous spread for me, and we talked all kind of stories. They told me about their experiences here in Gainesville and in Florida. He invited me to his church, and put me on the platform, and that’s where I was first exposed to a band in the church. Where there was this bass drum and so on, and people were clapping, so I felt a little funny but I was clapping too. They were a wonderful family.

	H:	Do you remember their name? L:	No, I can’t remember the name. H:	Okay.

	L:	And I also developed a relationship with the person who turned out to be an assistant provost of the University, Dr. Jacqueline Hart. She was a student in





Education, and her mom was a teacher in the public school system. I don’t remember how I met her, I think it was through the same student—I don’t want to use the word “uprising,” but the 1970 incidents. And she invited me to her house, and I met her mom. She was a delightful lady, Mrs. Hart. And they did not have a pianist for their church. And I could play the piano some. So I volunteered, or was recruited, into playing for their church services. That was an interesting experience, but that’s another story. So I developed a wonderful relationship with Mrs. Hart and her daughter, Dr. Jaqueline Hart; at the time, she was still doing her research. And that’s where I learned from Mrs. Hart some of the things that also saddened me about Black kids in the school system. Because she showed me a bunch of books, textbooks, that the students had. The first thing that impressed me was that American kids were given textbooks. In Jamaica you had to buy your textbooks; that’s the first thing. But, to take it a step further, it was saddening to read—to first realize that some of those textbooks were used textbooks that were given to the kids. And when you’d read some of the things that the White kids wrote in the books prior to turning the books over to be given to the Black kids, it was very sad. Some of it, there were racial things in there, and some of them were in not good shape. I recall I was moved to tears to see some of—.

	H:	What was said in the books, or just the shape of the books? L:	Combination.

	H:	Both of those. I can imagine. I can imagine. You don’t expect that, at all. L:	Yeah, that was not good.





	H:	Mmhm. So, you prosper in this Entomology department after all, being the only woman, and the only woman of color in the department. And when does that change?

	L:	It changed, I think, in 1972, when about three or four more females came in to do their master’s degree. But these were all White young women. And I remember one of them was Jewish. I didn’t know she was Jewish until she was describing how a certain professor described both of us, and it was not nice. And then she was upset, and she was complaining to me and sharing what she understood, how he’d described me as well. So.

	H:	Okay. So, some White women come in the 1970s, and you remained in the Entomology department through your entire career?

	L:	No, You mean my entire graduate career, or my—? H:	No, your professional career.

	L:	No, no, no, no. I graduated in 1975 with my PhD from the Entomology department. And my goal was to return to Jamaica, because that was really something dear to my heart. But then, I got married, and therefore naturally had to stay here. I applied for a position in the Entomology department. I heard there was a teaching position, and I was told by one well-meaning professor not to do that because the university does not hire its own, and therefore he would not support my application. The assistant chair at the time—apparently, I don’t know, he told me he had a discussion with a prior chair or something, but to this day my application was never acknowledged. But they had hired at least one other—at least one other; I know there are more, but for sure there is one other—who had





had all three of his degrees in that same department. And there was one other person who had at least two of the degrees, but he might have gone away for his PhD; I’m not sure. The argument that was being used was not a genuine argument. Anyway I did not—I just accepted it. And since I had training in zoology, I applied for a position in the Zoology department, and subsequently was hired in the Zoology department. And that’s where I started my career as assistant professor.

	H:	And at that time, how many Blacks were in faculty positions across the campus, generally?

	L:	Generally speaking, I would say probably—well, I can say for sure in science, there was none, not a single one in science. In Zoology, in Botany, and in Agriculture itself, other than Dr. Davis.

	H:	There was none.



	L:	None, not a single one. I think he spent over twenty years in IFAS, in the College of Agriculture, as the only Black faculty member on a tenure track. There may have been some people of color in some faculty positions, like maybe extension assistant or something like that, but not on a tenure track. In the Zoology department and Botany department, there was not a single one.

	H:	Prior to your hire. L:	Prior to my hire.

	H:	And what year again, did you say?



	L:	I was hired in 1976, in the fall of 1976.





H:  What were your parents thoughts about you becoming a professor and staying in the States?

L:   Well, my parents had always been supportive of what we did. And they knew that the decisions that I made were good, as far as my professional growth and so on, were good decisions. So, they never expressed any sadness that I stayed.

H:   Mmhm, okay.



	L:	Nor were they overjoyed. It was just, “This is her next step.” And they were proud that I had achieved what I had achieved and so on, but I didn’t see them being overjoyed that, “Oh, she decided to stay in America!” Because if I had gone back to Jamaica, I also had a career to pursue. The key thing was that I had pursued the academic goals and had achieved them. And that in it of itself was, I think, satisfying to them; they were pleased about that.

	H:	Were they aware that you were the only woman for quite some time, and the only woman of color? Because that is an achievement, as well. So, outside of those academic achievements—?

	L:	I don’t know. In Jamaica, especially during that time and within the context of my upbringing and my parents, the racial thing was never questioned. Because in Jamaica, race was not something you talked about or worried about. That’s not to say that there was never any racism in Jamaica, because Europeans had been in Jamaica and so on, but there was no obvious barrier to academic achievement. If the child was bright enough to do well on an exam, you got a scholarship to go to high school. Now, if you didn’t do well, and your parents didn’t have any money, there was a problem. So, it was more—in my opinion—of





an economic problem than a racial problem. So to say to my mother and father, “I’m the only Black in so-and-so,” they would say, “That’s good.” But basically, what does that mean? Because they didn’t expect there to be a racial problem. They knew I was in America, and America is a country for Whites. And they would tell me to be careful, because they would hear of racial burnings and things. But remember that it was not as prevalent on the TV in those days as it is now. The world is extremist right now. And while we were aware of racial things—my father lived in Cuba for over twenty-odd years; and so, there in Jamaica you had the British and so on. But the racial situation was nothing like it was in America.

	H:	Yes. I don’t think I should call it an “accomplishment,” an accolade, as much as a situation; something to endure. And it sounds like what you are saying is that they certainly were aware of what you had to endure, and expected you to do the right thing.

	L:	Yes. Actually, I never even—I didn’t hide anything from them. Because at the time, coming up through the graduate programs and so on, I didn’t really have any difficulty, at least overtly. In retrospect, there were some covert things; some Saturdays, you might not get invited to a party or so on. But no one could interfere with my grades. I’ll just digress and say there was this professor, I used to do very well in his classes. But if I got a ninety percent, he would give me a B. At that time, they didn’t give B-pluses. And the only way I knew I could get an A is if I got a ninety-five. Even though at the time, a ninety was considered an A. So there was this little thing about him that I knew. He was very courteous to me,





very polite, but it was almost as if he couldn’t bring himself to be convinced that I deserved an A when I got a ninety. So, I knew, you got a ninety, you’re going to get a B from Hedrick. But a ninety-five, there was no way. So my point is, I didn’t see clear, overt evidence of racism to me; everybody was nice. When things changed was when especially they say, “Well, what are you going to do?” And you say, “Well, I’m going to stay here.” And then the whole conversation changed.

	H:	And you think it—



	L:	Because now you’re a Black American. You’re not a foreigner.



	H:	Right. Right, right, right. So, in your view there was more hostility to you as a faculty member—and I don’t mean apparent hostility, but—

	L:	Because I stayed here and I, now automatically, I became a member of the other side.

	H:	Right. Okay. So you began in Zoology, and then transferred back to the Entomology department.

	L:	I came up through the ranks. I got tenured and promoted to associate professor in Zoology within the time in Zoology, and then subsequently got promoted to full professor in Zoology. And then in 1993, I was approached by faculty and chair from another institution, and provost from another institution, inviting me to apply for a position there. And it wasn’t until a lot of soul searching and realization that to some extent there was some aspects of my career that had I been nurtured in a positive way earlier on—although I had done very well and had indeed received several accolades nationally—that maybe this was the time to move. After a lot of





consultation, a lot of sleepless nights, my husband and I decided that we would move. And it was based upon that that the university—the president, the provost, and several other colleagues—really did a heroic push to discourage us from going. And at the last minute we decided to stay. The vice president of Agriculture invited me to apply to this Entomology department, because I was going to go another Entomology department. So the question is, “Why are you leaving to go to an Entomology department when there is an Entomology department here?”

	H:	Did you mention that you had applied for a position many, many years before? L:	Nah.

	H:	You didn’t.



	L:	I didn’t. But I made sure that I did not apply again. I served on the committee of several students here in Zoology, but there was a particular professor who, every time my name came up to receive a courtesy appointment, somehow managed to encourage people to not give it to me. So, when the offer came for me, when the thought came for me to stay here, I spoke very frankly to the chairman of the department, and to at least two or three other people who I knew and felt that they could be honest with me to say if the vote was not overwhelmingly positive. I didn’t expect a unanimous vote, but if it was not overwhelmingly positive I would not stay. And I was told that the vote was overwhelmingly positive. I think that it was said that there were three people who either abstained or something like that. And so, that was the only reason why I came over, transferred over. I should say parenthetically that there were at least three faculty members who were in





Entomology who actually came from Zoology. And I don’t know that there was any major vote for them to come over. It was more—from what I understood from past years, people who were involved in it—it was more a matter of a general consensus and maybe there was some voting, but it was among—well, whatever it is. Maybe there was some voting. But it was like an understanding, and it was a natural flow for them to come. In two cases, though, to be fair, there was also a discussion as to, “They’re not controlling any insects. Their research does not control. What are they doing in Entomology?” And it turned out that their contributions to Entomology was significant, even though they weren’t controlling insects. But I do know that their research was criticized by colleagues and even some students, because they were doing basic science.

	H:	So, that lingered.



	L:	That lingered. Yeah. So, my point is that there is that unfortunate—I know we have a mandate to support the agriculture. This is important. But I do not think that it should be with gross disregard to basic science in the minds of—not any more administratively, as far as I know, but in the minds of, you know, the general community, entomological community. And I think it is at the point where it’s much better than it used to be in terms of the concept of what is entomology.

	H:	So, entomology is much better than it used to be in terms of the concept of entomology. In the thirty, forty years you’ve had a relation—forty years—

	L:	Yes, forty years in that department.





	H:	—that you’ve had a relationship with the University of Florida, how would you say that the University has changed—whether or not that be positive or negative changes?

	L:	I think it has changed—it’s changed significantly. I think I’d be unfair to say it hasn’t changed. It has changed in many ways. For example, how young assistant professors are treated. My sense was that the whole process of tenure and promotion was a weed-out process, it was more designed in a negative way than in a positive way. For example, as an assistant professor, I had absolutely no one to give me any guidance as to what being an assistant professor is, how you navigate the system, what are the things that are really expected of you by the professoriate. And indeed, some of the things that are expected of you within a specific department in terms of delivery to students and so on. In terms of what is service, how that should be modified or modulated with respect to the other responsibilities that you have to do. Whereas now, an assistant professor is required to have a mentor, or three. There is a pre—it’s like you’re constantly or continually being prepped for coming up for tenure. My own experience was, “Let’s see if she fall.” In fact, there were professors—I know of at least two in Zoology when I joined—that said, “We’re not going to get in her way. We’ll just see if she falls on her face.” Now, that’s not something good for a young assistant professor to hear. And so…

	H:	Why do you think that that was their sentiment?



	L:	It’s difficult for me to say. It is possible that—as far as I know, after I had applied for the position, I’m sure there were sentiments from a racial standpoint that we





do not have any Blacks in the University, for the most part. Definitely none in the sciences. And here is somebody who is well qualified; we need for you to look at their application more. It was not necessarily a position that was advertised for which I had applied. I just applied because I knew I had qualifications to be in a zoology department, based upon my past years at the University of the West Indies, and my general approach to basic science and research. The chairman of the department, I guess, was quite forward-looking. I had had no contact with him. So, when I applied, it was not on any basis of race. It was just, “Where can I find a job? Now that I’m married, I’m going to be in Gainesville. And the Entomology department won’t even acknowledge that I had applied for—” They wouldn’t even acknowledge receipt of an application. And certainly, I had no desire to teach in the public school system. I wanted to do research and so on.

So, zoology was the natural place to which I would apply. Because the then- chairman, Dr. Tom Emmell, was forward-looking, and quite frankly quite astute. Because I believe his ears were to the ground as far as the concerns from the University of Florida was on the mandate for, what’s that? Affirmative Action or something. I didn’t even know what Affirmative Action was—to show you the mentality I had. And so, whatever efforts he made I think certainly were in the interests of the department, and himself as a chair and whatever; it was not any favor to me. And as I said, he didn’t know me; I found later he was a friend of my ex-major professor. But he certainly made an effort to do the necessary things for the interviews, et cetera, et cetera. So to come back to your question as to why do I think the attitude of some of the faculty, maybe—it could be because they





did not go to a meeting and find me. And you know how some of that ownership might be, you know. Some would say, “Oh, we found that person,” or “We recruited that person,” as the case may be. Now, that’s one possibility. And that’s as best as I can take it, because I didn’t necessarily see anything racial there.

And it certainly didn’t have anything, I don’t think, to do with me, because they did not know me—you know, to say, “Well, we don’t like her, so.” And you know, for the most part what I found was a kind of benign neglect situation: once I was there, there were things, as I said, that could have been done to nurture me. But they choose not to. But at the same time, I am not aware of anything that was put in my way to stop me. So, they just left me alone. There was one particular faculty member who, even say good morning a hundred times to him, he would not speak to me. Until when I got ready to leave the department; he came and asked me, could I consider staying? But that was—.

	H:	So, you were saying, in closing, you were telling me about how the university, you feel, has changed. And you were saying that assistant professors get support in ways that certainly didn’t happen institutionally—that wasn’t the nature of the university. And more specifically happen in your case at all.

	L:	Definitely didn’t happen. There were five other assistant professors who came in as a result of national searches who I can guarantee you got special—maybe because it was five, it wasn’t special attention. But they would get invited to the chairman’s. Not the chairman who hired me, but other people’s homes, other professors’ homes. In a subsequent—under a different chair I know some of them would meet in his office, and they would have a beer or something. And I





would happen to need to see the chair, and go up, and say, “Oops!” Friday evening, and they are all there, having—. But I never got invited. I had had major surgery and was ill, and not a single—the chairman or nobody really, there were three people, real old senior people, who reached out just to find out how I was doing. But—.

	H:	Generally, no.



	L:	Generally, no.



	H:	What about Black women in your department now?



	L:	Unfortunately, as far as I know, there is one Black woman who—is in my department now, or in the Zoology department?

	H:	No, no in Entomology that you retired from.



	L:	Okay. There is one Black woman. She is not located on the campus here. She is located on one of the research and education centers. Unfortunately I think—I see from a distance some isolation. That she has been isolated, as well. And I think that there are some issues with tenure as well. So, on the one hand, while there have been changes, and my current department certainly has several women; thanks to Dr. Capinera, the current chair of the department, I think we have probably about six or so. I don’t think many of the other departments in IFAS have as many women. And we have four, including myself at the time, Black faculty members: two men and two women. Three of the four Blacks are all full professors, until recently. Having said that, the lone Black woman appears to be somewhat isolated, and has not fared well, at least in the initial stages with respect to achieving tenure—or, at least promotion. Now, I do not know the





details of that, because there are responsibilities on all of our parts. But I had been concerned about that and had articulated that in a written comment I made about the level of mentorship that she was receiving. But I don’t know her personally, and because, you know, she is down there and maybe—of course, all cases are personal; she might not want to say too much. So I don’t know the details there. What I am saying is, having looked at certain information I have available, I don’t think that the mentoring—so, from that standpoint I see it not just as a racial thing, I see more as a gender thing. And to go back to your question about, is it because of race or gender? Although it’s difficult to decouple some of those things, when you see a young Black male faculty member being very well-mentored, and he himself has done very well, and you see another person with good pedigree that has kind of lingered on the vine, and is a female, you wonder if she is in a different environment from the Black male. And I should say in fairness that the chairman that we have here—I came over as a grown girl, so to speak, so there was no need for any special mentoring. When it was really needed was at the beginning of the career.

	H:	While you were in Zoology.



	L:	While I was in Zoology as a young assistant professor. And sometimes, I must confess, I look back with sadness—gratitude on one hand, because many of the accolades I received for teaching or research, many of my national grants and service on national panels, and so on; all those accolades and recognitions came while I was in Zoology. But sometimes, I do reflect and say I wonder what would have happened had I been mentored and my career nurtured more.





	H:	Is there anything else you want to tell me before we close the interview?



	L:	The only thing that I think I would add that bothers me is—well, the past is the past. And what I hope is that although the university is so progressive and so on, I still see a great paucity of Black people in areas like entomology. We do have a lot of undergraduates, and several of them are people of color, and Black in particular. I would love to see more African Americans involved in the College of Agriculture. I know there are clubs and things like that, but it seems as though many young people are in—there is something called MANNERS. And that’s a wonderful organization.

	H:	Minority—. Do you know what that acronym stands for? L:	Minority Agriculture—. No, I don’t remember.

	H:	Okay, but it is an acronym talking about agriculture and natural resources.



	L:	But in entomology per se, what I am seeing is a lot of young people—both Black and non-Blacks—they’re coming as a point of least resistance in order to get to medical school. When I speak to young Black Americans, the general feeling is, “Agriculture, I don’t want to be back on the plantation,” and that sort of thing. And there are many who don’t recognize that there are so many other aspects of agriculture. And I see nothing wrong with being a farmer. And in fact, that’s what I really, really wanted to be when I was in Jamaica. Of course, my intent would be to have a few hundred acres of land. But I would really love to see a different perspective taken by African Americans in particular, and lay claim to this agricultural heritage that they have. And not just be in agriculture because some of the areas might be easier to get in, or that might be an easy way to get to





medical school. I’d also like to see more of them participating in research. One of the things that has been my passion is undergraduate research. And in fact, I’ll tell you that that is where the majority of my efforts has been: to bring in students. Not just Blacks. In fact, I have difficulty finding Blacks to come to do undergraduate research. As a result of their participation in my lab, I’ve taken them to scientific meetings so they can make presentations and meet people.

And in addition, that has been very helpful to them to get into medical school, vet school, and graduate school. And I would love to see more undergraduates across the board, and especially more African American undergraduates, participate in some serious research. And I know that the university, being a research university, places a lot of emphasis on graduate students—as it should. But I would like to see them do more to enhance the research experiences of undergraduates. Because if you have curious, intellectually adept undergraduates, you don’t have to worry about the quality of your graduate program. So, I think that’s where I will close.

H:  Thank you very much. L: You’re very welcome. [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Margaret Clarke, February 7, 2017 Audit edited by:	Ryan Morini, March 8, 2018

	Final edited by:	Ryan Morini, February 21, 2019