AAHP 434; Dixon; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 434 Helen Dixon

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Vickie Oldham on October 19, 2015 36 minutes | 22 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Helen Dixon discusses growing up in Sarasota during segregation. She also talks about her father’s activism in local politics. Her father was also active in the NAACP and the Mason’s during the Civil Rights Movement.



Keywords: [Sarasota; segregation; NAACP; Civil Rights Movement; African American History]



























































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 434 (Newtown Oral History Project) Interviewee: Helen Dixon

Interviewer: Vickie Oldham Date: October 19, 2015



	O:	Today is October 19th, Monday. I have—what is your name? D:	Helen Jones Dixon.

	O:	And Mrs. Dixon, tell me about your mother and your father. How they got to Sarasota, who are they?

	D:	Well my father’s name is Charlie Jones. My mother’s name is Willie Mae King Jones. My father came to Sarasota in 1921 when he was seventeen years old. His father died when he was twelve and he wanted to come and live with a great uncle. And he came to Sarasota in 1921.

	O:	Where did he come from?



	D:	He came from Madison, Florida. O:	Madison, Florida.

	D:	Yes.



	O:	What about your mother?



	D:	Well my mother lived in Ocilla, Georgia and he father came here to do work in Sarasota because there was no work in Ocilla. And he came in 1923, [19]24 and later on they began to come to see their parents because their mother and father came here to work. And that’s she ended up coming to Sarasota to visit. And her older sister who was Melanie King Floyd, who married Reverend J.H. Floyd later on, they came down. And so that’s how she got to meet Reverend Floyd at that time and they got married in 1927, [19]28 somewhere in that era. And that’s how the family started coming down and my grandfather came down in [19]23 and [19]24 and he built the Bush’s house.





	O:	The Wright Bush.



	D:	Yeah the Wright Bush on Martin Luther King.



	O:	Okay so a lot of questions arise from what you’ve just said. Now do you have any idea how your parents met?

	D:	Yes. My father said that when he met my mother, he had already been married before and the person had died. And when he met her, he said she was gonna be his wife and she said, “No I wasn’t your first and I won’t be your second.” But they made a little thing that they was gonna go for a ride and whoever got in the front that Sunday would be the wife and she said started to get in the front seat but her said, “No get in the back.” But she ended up in the front seat and that’s how they started dating and meeting each other and end up getting married in 1930.

	O:	They were here in Sarasota by that time. D:	Yes, yes, yes.

	O:	Wow. So tell me what you remember about your parents and their history.



	D:	Well I was born August 8th, 1936 here in Sarasota. My grandmother, who was a mid-wife at that time, Lula Jones, she brought me into existence because at that time they wouldn’t allow us to be at the Sarasota Memorial Hospital. So mid- wives would bring different babies into the world and she brought me into the world. We were living on the street which was 1765 43rd Street at the time, which is now 34th Street.

	O:	That was in Newtown.





	D:	Yes, and that’s where I was born. And so she brought me into the world. My daddy had a little three-room house at that particular time which he enlarged years later as all of us were born. But we used to call it “The Little Blue House” because it was blue. And then as he migrated into getting more jobs, then he enlarged the house.

	O:	What did he do for work?



	D:	Well that I can remember, I was a little girl, he worked at Davis Lumber Company and then he worked for the Ringling North because he was a chauffeur for John Ringling North.

	O:	Who was John Ringling North?



	D:	He was one of the sons of Henry North of the Museum. And he used to be the chauffeur there. Before he went there, he worked at what they called “The Airbase,” where we have the airport now. It was for the soldiers; it was called The Airbase. And he was a supervisor there and several of the Afro-American men worked there at the time. And he was a supervisor there before he started getting into other work.

	O:	I see so tell me about your early memories of growing up in Newtown and what was that childhood like?

	D:	Well my memories was very good. I had a lot of fun. I can remember one, two, three years old, really playing outside because we had our own property. We had our own property which was like three or four acres and we would play in the yard and do all things that we made up. I remember getting a five-gallon can of syrup and putting dirt in it and putting holes in there and getting clothes hangers





and make that as my toy to roll back and forth in the yard. The streets were not paved; they were dirt streets. No lights, I can remember my dad going to downtown telling Ross Boyard that they needed paved streets out there. And we would be in the ditch playing and he said they needed lights out there. And he would have them come and put lights in the Newtown. I remember when we didn’t have the mail and my dad would go downtown and say, well he’d feel that we should have our own mail, not have to go to the post office to get mail every time. So he was very instrumental in the city in doing a lot of things because he said he paid taxes and because he paid taxes, he was due to have some of these things. I can remember we only lived about five minutes from the school and so my daddy had decided to do a yard business and he would get us up at five o’clock in the morning, especially myself because I was the youngest, and go mow yards before I went to school. And he would allow the teachers to let us come in fifteen minutes later so that we could come home and change clothes and get dressed for school. We made my money that morning doing yards and that was my money for school. And I remember us growing up, he said, “Well you need to have more than one profession. So always have two careers. So if they don’t want you in one, you can do another.” He said, “Always take the T off of can’t and say ‘I can do better. I’m going to do better.’” He said, “You were born free.” He said, “So you don’t have to worry about anything else.” And I can remember traveling with him where he worked doing chauffeuring work. I remember going to Dr. Gilchrist who lived up in Whitfield Estate and he had a garage. And we would go sit in the garage and eat tomatoes and pork and beans





and things like that. And I would sit on this doctor’s knee and he would give me five cents and he would play the piano and we would talk. So I was born free. I wasn’t a person to feel that segregation was a big thing for us because we were brought around a lot of people. And then he started doing more in his business. And he started doing more mechanical stuff and then he started working at the Ace Theater and the Ritz Theater downtown. We would clean the Ritz Theater and we used to have so much fun because all the money that I would find, I could keep that, anything else I could turn in. But that was our little extra change for school. So then finally, when he went to talk to the manager, he had just got a brand new 1950 Chevrolet, I’ll never forget this, the owner said he was going to be fired because his car was better than his. And that was back in the day [19]49 and [19]50s where you didn’t have a good car. And then so he decided well if I’m gonna do all this, I’m gonna go into my own business. And that’s when he decided to do his electrical and plumbing business.

	O:	He was outspoken. Let’s go back to that part. It seems that he wasn’t afraid to go down to City Hall.

	D:	Oh no, every day he would come out to Booker High School. I can remember that we didn’t have a bathroom and then when had the bathroom, it was a pull- chain bathroom and my sister went in the bathroom and it had run over and she had fell. And he came out to the school and said, “I want a janitor here, I pay taxes.” He says, “I don’t need them to scrub and wipe the floors, I teach them that at home.” And so he went downtown and we got the first janitor at Booker High School because my father pushed for that. The teachers would say, “Ms.





Dixon please—or Ms. Jones at that time—please tell your daddy to come out to the school. We need a new raise; we need more money.” And he would come out and he would go downtown and next thing you know the teachers would get a little raise but he was a person to talk about everything for his kids. My mother worked just like he did, but he went to the school every day.

	O:	Wow. What did your mom do?



	D:	My mother was a maid in different homes and she used to work for William’s Stationary. I never forget, downtown ‘cause I used to go with her into the house when she would cook and clean take care of the children while they went to work. And it was like you were happy. You weren’t sad because your parents was doing that, because they took you everywhere they went and you met the little kids just like they were like your sister or brother. And we really had fun; we didn’t have sadness at that time because they took us around. We did everything with them.

	O:	And did you feel that you were less?



	D:	No! Because my father taught us that we were just as equal as anyone else. And he said, “You were born free don’t let anyone tell you, you’re not free.” You were born free. And I remember when we went to work at the Ritz Theater, across the street was the Kress Building. And we would go over there and they had a sign that said, “Colored” and “White.” And my sister would say, “Helen! You want some colored water?” And we would laugh and we couldn’t even touch the stools, and we would go play and turn around on the stools and just have fun.





And we knew our place, so it didn’t bother us at all. And then we would go back and work, and then go home and we had a good time. We had fun.

	O:	What economic class was your family in then because I know people would say well we were poor but families didn’t really realize they that they were poor.

	D:	Well looking back now, I didn’t consider us being poor but we were poor, poor because that the recession, we had the stamps and we had to go and we could share. But my mother and father worked in public, so they got a lot. I can remember my dad bringing—one of the ladies he worked for, gave him a playhouse and I can remember at eight, nine years old, moving the playhouse from where the people lived maybe on the beach somewhere, to our house.

	O:	What do you mean play house?



D:  We had a playhouse. They gave us a big house! And it had electric in it and I remember us having a refrigerator there and a stove and we used to feed the neighborhood.

	O:	So it was real house. D:	It was a real house.

	O:	But y’all transferred it property?



	D:	My dad, whoever he worked for, had it transferred on our land. And so the kids would come in the neighborhood and play in our playhouse and then we had a little account at Mr. Solomon’s store and daddy would let us buy stuff and my sister would send me up there and we would cook and give stuff to the neighborhood. Two-for-penny cookies, two-for-penny candy, we did all that stuff and finally daddy said, “Y’all spending too much money.” And they were only





making seven dollars a week at that time. And so he said, “Well I’ll tell you what, now you have to sign your name when you go to the store because somebodies getting all this stuff and nobody’s telling me.” Well who was the runner? The baby, Helen. Okay. So they would send me to the store and had to sign my name. It got to be twenty-five dollars on the account and my daddy had a fit and he went to Mr. Solomon’s store. Well the man was making money, he didn’t care. He said, “Well Charlie, you told me to let the kids have what they want.” And at that time we didn’t know it was called “Boneless Ham” we would say, “Bonish Ham,” okay, “Spice meat, candy.” We would do all that and we would feed the entire neighborhood and I can remember the kids teased us because we thought we was rich; we didn’t know we were poor.

	O:	Well you sounded like you had more than others.



	D:	We did but we didn’t know we had others. I can remember my dad bringing boots home from the Airbase and tell me to go give this to different kids. Well I thought he was just giving it away, I didn’t know that we didn’t have anything. But that was the way the people helped each other during those days. If we got more, like we used to get the five bag of flour or stuff like that, we would give some to the neighborhood. Well I thought we was all the same, we were poor. But now looking back, my sister said, “Na there three types of poor: say there’s poor, poor, and poor! And we weren’t that.” [Laughter] You know in looking back, and I know we had a good childhood, we had so many good things, even though we didn’t have lights, we didn’t have the post office out there, we still had good





things that we could play with and do things and I had plenty of playmates. I was the only girl on the street so I played with boys.

	O:	What did y’all play again? As you aged.



	D:	We played hopscotch. I played marbles along with the boys. Yes, because I was a like a tomboy at that time. And we had good things. Well then they allowed us to go to the USO. It wasn’t a recreation center at that time. It was called the USO. And that’s where the servicemen, the army fellows would come down there okay? And daddy would let us go a little bit because they were much older than us and I can remember when the plane crashed right over in the field where the recreation center is now and I remember the guy’s arm and everything they let us see it at that time.

	O:	He died?



	D:	Yes, the guy fell because the airplane was going to the airbase at that time, where the soldiers were but I must have been eight, nine years old at that time. But we had good times; we had good days. We weren’t sad; we loved going to school because I walked to school.

	O:	You’ve got to tell me about those Booker days and some of your fondest memories of being a Booker student.

	D:	Well my fondest memories were first I started in kindergarten. New before I started in kindergarten, I was one of the first ones to go to the day nursery, Helen Day Nursery. Helen Payne now. But it was Sarasota Day Nursery. And we had two teachers: one was named Ms. Cheeseburg okay? And the other one was Chambers. She lived in New Jersey where I lived for year; I saw her later. And





my sister Catherine and I were the first two students at the day care. My father would go around town and ask different people to bring their children to the daycare. It was only a dollar a week and nobody had a dollar so nobody came. So finally, eventually, they started bringing the children to the daycare. Well after I left there, then I went to what they call “primer,” which now we call it “pre- school.” And then I can remember Ms. Solomon was my first grade primer teacher. And then we would go half a year in each class.

	O:	Was she kin to the person who owned the store?



	D:	No, no she came here from another town okay? And then I can remember Ms.



McElroy but she was like second grade so I never did get to her. And Ms. Dunmack, who later was Mrs. Roberts, she was my first grade teacher. And she was very strict but she was very strong. And we learned a lot. That was before the school got into a big school. We had one little house and then we had a big stove that we would heat our food in a little pan. And we would carry our little soup, or whatever you want to school, and the teacher would heat it up in a little potbelly stove, wooden stove. And that’s how we ate our lunch.

	O:	Everybody’s food?



	D:	Yes, yes, yes. And those that didn’t, we shared with them ‘cause some kids parent didn’t have anything. And so we shared our little soup in a little pan on the stove and then as we gradated to a different class, then different teachers had more for us. But it was awesome. I remember Mrs. Aravia Johnson being my fourth grade teacher. I remember Ms. Wiggins being my third grade teacher. And they were concerned. They cared about us. And they would come home and tell





your parents if something wasn’t right. Well my father would be out there every day so he didn’t play that.

	O:	It’s interesting that you remember these early teachers. D:	Yes, yes.

	O:	They must have had an impact.



	D:	Very much impact, especially Ms. Aravia Johnson she was my music teacher for about six weeks because I didn’t want to learn music so she told my mother don’t send me back anymore. Catherine would take music because I didn’t want to take music but they made me go. And then after I wouldn’t practice, she said, “Well don’t send her anymore. You wasting your money.”

	O:	Wow. Booker High School.



	D:	Well we graduated from the first remodeled Booker High School in 1954.



Because you had the big school. When we went to the elementary, we went to what we called “The Big School,” which was fifth and sixth grade only. I had Mrs. Grimes as my sixth grade teacher. I didn’t want to go to Ms. Riley because they said she was mean. So I went to Mrs. Grimes who had just moved here from Ponagoda and I had her as my sixth grade teacher. I had Ms. Hall as my fifth grade teacher, who was very nice.

	O:	Cressy Hall?



	D:	Ms. Cressy Hall. Yes. And so then we jumped the ditch and went to seventh grade and that’s when we called we were in the big school. So we were big girls and boys then. And so then by that time, you had new teachers coming on board. Mrs. Truitt came on board. Mrs. Wright, they were sisters and they came here.





She was my home economics teacher and Ms. Truitt was my English teacher. Then Mrs. Reed came aboard.

	O:	Viola?



	D:	No, neither one of those. She married Reverend Day later, she was Mrs. Reed.



She was my English teacher. She came aboard. Mr. White was my history teacher, he came aboard. Mr. Brooks came aboard. These are teachers. Reverend Reddick was way long time ago which nobody remember his name. He was one of the principals there. Professor Hasley was one of the principals there. It was way back, you talking about in the [19]40s and early [19]40s.

	O:	Which principals did you have?



	D:	Well the last principal that had was Roland W. Rogers. O:	How would you describe him?

	D:	Well he was a strong warrior. I can remember guess it was 1944, [19]45 somewhere when he came. We didn’t understand him because he had a roaring voice and he would say, “Sit down!” and we would sit down and he would say — now every assembly was on a Friday and he would call us into the assembly and he said, “Now somebody go to somebody’s church every Sunday.” And he had all the teachers to make sure they went to somebody’s church, whether you were Methodist or Baptist, you had to go to church. That was his aim, his goal. And we would have assembly on Fridays which we would have scripture, prayer, sing, these are songs that we sang in school.

	O:	Spiritual songs?





	D:	Yes, and we had to learn the hundred Psalms. We had to learn first Psalms on Friday to recite in assembly.

	O:	But you hadn’t done that before he became principal?



	D:	No, no, no, we did not. And then with our home economics teacher, she would let us make our own items and then we would go around and model those in the assembly on Friday. And it was nice. And then she taught us how to cook and we would do all of that in the classroom. And then we would invite the football players to come eat our food that we cooked for them. So you learned so much in those days and we’re not getting any of that now for our young people. They don’t even know how to set the table now. We learned all of that. But the main thing, Booker High was the school.

	O:	Why do you say that?



	D:	Because even though we got hand-me-downs, the teachers cared about us.



They loved us. They would go and call your parents, and we only had party lines at that time and you only had three people on a party line but they would get in touch with you by phone or by walking to your house. And my daddy didn’t play that, he said, “I send you out to educate you, if your teacher comes here, it’s too much.”

	O:	Then you’d get what, a paddling?



	D:	Yes, you would get a paddling. We didn’t get punishment, we got paddling. But he didn’t have to do it but so often for me because I was one of those that I didn’t like to get paddled. Because I used to get paddled every day when I was little.

	O:	Every day?





	D:	Yes, because what happened is that my mother and father worked and he said he wanted us to stay in the yard. And as soon as he would leave, I would leave and go play down the street. But he had a car, he was one of the ones in Newtown that had a car—I’ll never forget he had 1936 Ford Chevrolet—and he would come home for lunch because he wouldn’t out chauffeuring and so he would play a song on the radio and then he would hit the horn and we knew the sounds [Making honking sounds]. We know he’s coming, so we would run to get in the yard before he get there, thinking we wouldn’t get punished okay? We got punished and I did that for about a month. And I got tired of getting those spankings and at that time, we had an outdoor bathroom and I would run in the bathroom.

	O:	And hide?



	D:	No during the daytime, this is daytime! No not night, we were home at night. We never could go out at night. But this is daytime, he was teaching us to stay in the yard and play. And then finally after that happened a lot of people in the neighborhood would say, “Mr. Jones, why do your children stay in the yard and mine wont?” And he said, “If you put on yours, what I put on mine, they’ll stay in the yard also.” And we didn’t have any problems. We were very, very good when he said that. And I thank him before he passed and my mother for teaching us those principals because a lot kids didn’t get that. The respect that we had for them, to listen to them, even though we knew we did some things that little kids shouldn’t do but as an adult I thank them for what they did for us and taught us.





And how, through their teachings and his learning, my father only went to the third grade.

	O:	Got you. What about the importance of an education? After you left Booker did you go on to college?

	D:	Well my father said to all his children that because of the times, he was not able to send us to college. But he was going to get us through high school and then he would make room or open a door for us to go. Because he said he didn’t have the money at that time. So each one of us, when we graduated, we decided what we wanted to do as a career. He sent each one of us to a family member. My oldest sister when to Philadelphia and then she ended up back in New Jersey with her oldest brother. My next sister when she graduated, she went to New York because she wanted to go to Harlem School of Nursing. So she went to an aunt who was a nurse up there. So when I finished high school, I went to New Jersey to my brother. I was gonna go to FAMU and because my father wouldn’t let me take the car to FAMU, decided not to go to FAMU. By that time, I was a widow, I got married when I was younger, my husband died when I was 18 years old going on nineteen years old. And so then I moved to New Jersey with my brother and so I decided I wanted to go to Rutgers University and so I started there. But then I had a friend of mine saying that Shaw University had a program that you can go to a university without walls and I decided to go to Shaw University after I finished my two years at Rutgers.

	O:	Where’s Shaw?





	D:	Raleigh, North Carolina but we had a what we call an open door and my adjunct professor was there in Newark where I was. And I went to classes there but I had to go to Shaw to get my diploma.

	O:	Got you. Where does the Civil Rights Movement fit into your life story? Did your dad participate in any of the—

	D:	Well my dad was one of the ones, along with Neil Humphrey, with the NAACP. He was very strong in that. He believed and he was a thirty degree Mason, so he was in all of those organizations and he pushed for all of that. I remember them raising money for a lot of those things. I remember when they used to have St.

John’s Day and they would come and they would parade in Sarasota and raise money for all those community affairs. But he was very advocate in community affairs.

	O:	You mentioned some organizations, so he was a Mason. The ones that you can remember.

	D:	Well they call it at that time, the thirty two-degree Mason. You not supposed to say all that but he was in the Masons at that time. And then he was in other organizations here in Sarasota and then he was strongly involved in the NAACP. And they pushed. I can remember an incident happened that how strong the Masonic Lodge was, it was a man that was living at my grandmother’s house and my grandmother got poisoned by some rat poison and when they found out who did it, it was one of her tenants, and they took him down but that organization worked together to get him released.

	O:	What she died?





	D:	No she didn’t die at that time. She died later, years later but she rented to people in her house because all the property where Salvation Army is now, my daddy owned all of that.

	O:	Oh yeah you need to tell us about all of that property and where it’s located.



	D:	Well it was called 921—at their house, where they were living at that time—921 Lemon Avenue. But he owned all the land over there and they used to call it “Charlie Jones Quarters.” And it went from Lemon Avenue almost to the corner of Cornway.

	O:	How did he get all of that?



	D:	Well see when he came here in 1921, he lived with his great uncle. And his great uncle had the property and my grandmother, who we call grannie, she was the mid-wife. And so as time would grow, they would build more houses onto that property and he must have a had about five or six houses on that property. And so he would eventually rent to a lot of people on that property and that’s why they call it “Charlie Jones Quarters” because he had several duplexes and a big house and all of that. So after my grandmother passed, then the property went to him.

	O:	Okay and he sounds so entrepreneurial.



D:  Oh yes definitely so. Because when he became Charlie Jones and Sons with his plumbing, electric business, he only had a third grade education but he could talk more than you business-wise. He couldn’t even write his name, my second sister taught him how to write Charlie Jones name. And the people would say, “Charlie if you had an education, I don’t know what I could do with you.” Because he





could count better in his head than you could on paper. And as I grew older I was one of the ones that teaching him and guiding him and driving, taking him around to do all the business. And he would say to me, “Go back and check your figures, I think you’re wrong.” And sure enough I be one or two minutes off, two pennies off of what he would say. But he was so sharp what we call at time “mother- with.” And he knew just what to do. He could count up a figure quicker than you and add up a job and tell the people, “Well I want this and I want that.” He said, “My daughter’s gonna take care of this and my daughter’s gonna take care of that.” So he taught us how to be an entrepreneur at an early age.

	O:	Did he install the electrical and plumbing in houses in Newtown?



	D:	Yes, yes. He was the first licensed electrician and plumber with a dual license here in Sarasota. Because he couldn’t read or write, they gave him an oral test. And they grandfathered him in with his license.

	O:	So I bet some of the residences that still stand today were probably him. They have his handy work in them.

	D:	Yes, yes, and some of them still owe me money from when they didn’t pay at that particular time. But that was okay because at that time people did things for somebody. If he could be at church and he’ll get a call and say somebody need a plumbing. And he would leave and change his clothes and go their house. And he was the type of person that whatever you needed, I’m gonna be there. And then he trained two of his sons to do the plumbing and the electrical work. So that’s how he got the name Charlie Jones and Sons because downtown at the bank says, “Charlie put it in your sons’ name, you can get more money by having





a family situation than just one person.” And that’s when he changed it to Charlie Jones and Sons.

	O:	It’s four o’clock. After he died there was a street named after him. Why and how did that come about?

	D:	Well in 1980 my sister went down to the city and they declared January 22, which was his birthday, Charlie Jones Day. And they had a big party at Bobby Jones Golf Course for him and gave him the Keys to the City for that. So it was already downtown what Charlie did. So in 1983 when he died, the family got together and made a plea to the city to put it on the docket that we could have the street named after him. So we had to go get names of the people on the street around town to sign a petition and they did. And when we went before the court, everybody downtown knew daddy—you know sheriff, the city manager— everybody knew him. And they said, “Oh yes, for Charlie? Oh yes we gonna give it.” But it was honorary, they didn’t do it through the post office so they had two names up there: Charlie Jones and Thirty-fourth Street. So when you wrote mail, you had to put both addresses on there. So that happened, it was there for over twenty-three years. So then when I came down and built a house for them, and moved them from Overtown and that’s when we decided that mothers was on his street named for her husband.

	O:	How nice is that? D:	Yes, yes.

	O:	I got two more questions. First your vision for how we move into the next hundred years of Newtown. You’ve seen it, how it was and you’ve seen the community’s





ups and downs. What do you think are some most important issues that are needing to be addressed and that’s gonna improve our future, Newtown?

	D:	Well I’m a retired social worker and I have been here for years, and years, and years. I came back in 1982 to put back in my own neighborhood that had been so good to me. So I’ve counseled kids for all those years. And I see that education is the key here for our kids because they’re not getting the education that they should get. Our parents, we’ve got to go back and go back and go back and give some things that our parents gave to us for them to change. Because when I counsel kids, they don’t have any get up about them at all. It’s like one of the boys I used to talk to said, “Well he wasn’t living alone.” And he’s sixteen years old anyway. I said, “Why you say that?” So what I got, what my father pushed in me the parents not pushing that in the kids to let them know, they’re free, they can do the things they want to. Put your mind to it. Get good grades, stay in school. But now the kids aren’t getting all of that so we gonna have to go back. I know we can’t go back to all basics but we got to start some basics so that we can teach the kids what it means, the three R’s. They don’t know the three R’s: reading, writing, arithmetic. So all they know is the new age now and we got to change some of that to see. And I love Sarasota, I love Newtown, I love what we’re doing but we just to do more. And it takes us, the older ones, to come back to say, “I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me.” And help the others to come from wherever but most everybody I talk, I have so many organizations that I’ve been on the boards, it’s to get people to come and





volunteer. They don’t want to volunteer. They don’t want to say, “I can do all things through Christ.”

	O:	Anything you’d like to add? You’re gonna think about a lot of things when this is over but I’ll give you a chance to add anything that comes to mind right now Mrs. Dixon about your family. Did you talk about how many sisters you have?

	D:	Well...



	O:	Brothers?



	D:	My father had twelve children. My mother had three girls but my father taught all his children to love each other and to seek more and more and more in your career. Most of my sisters and brothers have educated themselves, they have their own businesses or either one of my sisters, Gayle, she has her doctorate now, Dr. Moore. And he pushed education in them. He kept saying, he said, “I may not be able to give you the money, but its money downtown. It’s money out there, push for it, get it and go for it.” And most of them did, we got teachers, we got a lot of people in our family that really have succeeded, nurses and they’re pushing. And we push that in our grandchildren and that’s what we got to do now. We got to teach them and guide them. Live by example. Look on the wall, that’s Charlie Jones, that’s a legacy there. You know nobody gets a street named after them just drive along so as we say okay? But you have to have a reason for that. How did you do it? Push until something happens and that’s what I want to say to everybody, push until something happens.

	O:	Until somethings happens push.





	D:	Yes, yes, yes. I have an award on my wall from the YMCA Achievers Program and say I was a pusher person and I was looking around and I didn’t know they was talking about me. And they said, “That Mrs. Dixon, she’s a pusher person.” So I received that because I am pushy. I got it in me and I’m gonna give it back.

	O:	Great. [End of Interview]





	Final edit by:	Sandra Romero, November 5, 2020