AAHP 660A; Richardson; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 660A Reverend Henry Steele and Commissioner Curtis Richardson at the Tallahassee Bus Boycott Commemoration

Moderated by Keith Parker, May 23, 2019 66 minutes | 27 pages



Abstract: After watching the film “Footsteps to Freedom,” Reverend Henry Steele and Curtis Richardson discuss their upbringing and experiences with racism. Reverend Steele discusses his introduction to the Civil Rights Movement through the Bus Boycott and lunch counter demonstrations. Reverend Steele grew up in an activist Baptist family, and he discusses the intersection between church and civil rights, with a focus on the movement in Tallahassee. Steele talks about historical figures like Dr. Ralph David Abernathy, whom he worked with. Curtis Richardson, on the other hand, talks about his position as the city commissioner and mayor pro tem of the city of Tallahassee. Richardson mostly discusses racial discrimination in the school system and Tallahassee neighborhoods. Richardson built his family’s home on the south side of town, where he said people are leaving from. Richardson is working on improving the area’s conditions without aiding gentrification and raising property taxes. Finally, Gloria Jefferson Anderson uplifts women who held a significant role in the Civil Rights Movement and encourages everyone to not give up sharing history.



Keywords: [African American History; Leon County, Florida; Tallahassee; Civil Rights Movement; school system; Bus Boycott; religion and civil rights; gentrification]



Standards

1. SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.























For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 660A

Interviewee: Henry Steele and Curtis Richardson Interviewer: Keith Parker

Date: May 23, 2019



	P:	We’ve all been previewed to the fantastic movie “Footsteps to Freedom.” We have an esteemed panel who will introduce themselves and then share some comments about the footage and then we’ll do a Q and A. So, without further ado, Reverend [Laughter] Steele and Commissioner Richard Curtis—Curtis Richardson, I’m sorry. The point guard on the collegiate basketball team, Richard Curtis.

	C:	Oh yeah? Okay, I got you. I got you P:	So, we’re ready.

	C:	I’m going to let Reverend Steele go first. P:	Okay.

		S:	[inaudible 01:02] Good morning everybody, can you hear me well? Audience:	Yes

	S:	Okay, I am Henry Marion Steele. I am the second son and child of Reverend Doctor C.K. Steele Sr. I can remember back to the first days of the Bus Boycott at which time I was quite young and then later, I remember the student movement during the lunch counter demonstrations and activities. I will have more to share to about it as we go along.

	R:	Good morning. I’m Curtis Richardson. I am currently city commissioner and mayor pro tem of the city of Tallahasee. I’ve been a Tallahassee resident for about forty-five years now. I came to Tallahassee to attend Florida State University where I obtained degrees in psychology, and I have a degree from the University of West Florida in Pensacola. I started my professional career as a





school psychologist in the Gadsden school district, and I have held several positions in state government, and now am the community relations coordinator for Latly Technical College, which is right next door. It’s a pleasure to be here. I want to thank Dr. Parker for the work he has put into making this happen. As you all know, the Bus Boycott was a seminal event in the history of the city of Tallahassee, and we are even today, I believe it is, as a city offering free rides on Star Metro, which is our public transportation system to anyone who wants to ride in commemoration of the history of the Bus Boycott here in Tallahassee. It really began the move to change. Tallahassee was a very segregated—of course, as many towns and cities were during that time, very segregated, and African Americans lived primarily in a handful of neighborhoods in the city. And so, the Bus Boycott began the movement to change Tallahassee, I hope for the better.

We are working every day to make Tallahassee an all-American city, which we have been twice designated for all of its citizens, regardless of where they love. Do we have challenges? We’ve got lots of ‘em. But the one thing that we do is work together as a community to face those challenges, and we are looking forward to our city moving forward and being a progressive city where all can come and feel at home and there be opportunities, educational opportunities, and professional opportunities. We encourage those who want to visit, and we are very fortunate to have been named one of The South’s greatest cities to visit by Southern Living Magazine. We are proud of that designation as well. But we do have lots of work to do, and if we aren’t careful, we will see ourselves slipping back into some of those bad old days, that there were those who gave their lives





for us to be able to move on from. So, looking forward to the discussion this morning and where we go from here.

	S:	Let me express my appreciation to Dr. Parker for his continued support and sponsorship of these events each and every year. And I hope we are reminded that we are not just celebrating the Bus Boycott, but all of the subsequent activities for Civil Rights in Tallahassee since that time. I go back a long ways. I was not born in Tallahassee. Our family moved to Tallahassee in 1952, at which time I was eight years old, and my family consisted of my parents, and four children, three boys, one girl. C.K. Steele Jr., whom you may have seen in the film little earlier sitting at lunch counter, I think I pointed out it was he when he first appeared in the film. I’m the second son, then Clifford, who is also in the film, the third. And my sister, that time who was born in Augusto, Georgia made the fourth child. She was the baby for ten years, until Darrell, the fifth child and fourth son was born. And in [19]61, Derek, the youngest, was born the same year that I finished high school and was entering college at Morehouse in Atlanta. I graduated Morehouse in 1965 and went from there to Colgate Rochester, the Vatican school in Rochester, New York. I completed my studies there in 1968 and following graduation, my first employment was with Dr. Ralph David Abernathy at West Hunastree Baptist Church in Atlanta. Dr. Abernathy knew that I would be graduating, being close associate and friend of the family and my dad for a number of years; wired me and asked if I would come to assist him at West Hunastree Church in Atlanta, which I did. So I would say I was a very early participant in the Civil Rights struggle not only here, but other places as well. In





fact, my first year in a college, I don’t think I was there three months before being arrested doing the lunch counter sit-ins there where we had mass demonstrations of students from all over the Black colleges in Atlanta: Morehouse, Spelman, Clark, ITC, Morris Brown. So, Civil Rights is more or less in my blood. I remember the very first day of the Bus Boycott in 1956, as was mentioned in the film. My brother and I, my younger brother Clifford and I, were on our way home from school and on this particular day, we decided to take the bus home, which most of the time we walked or someone picked us up. At that time, the bus, that was the Black bus that ran from FAMU to French Town.

FAMU, Bond, back through FAMU, French Town, which also daily passed by our home at Boulevard and Tennessee streets. When the bus left Bond community, came back through FAMU, and we were coming along Boulevard right there at the seventh, and students were in uproar on both sides of the streets yelling “get off that bus! Get off that bus!” And immediately, we knew what had happened.

That a boycott had been initiated here in Tallahassee lead by the students of Florida A&M. So as soon as the bus turned down Palmer and got to Adams, off we came and walked the rest of the way home. So I very vividly remember that, which was very exciting to me because—excuse me, I thought I had taken care of this. [Phone rings and laughter] And I believe on that very same night, the first Mass meeting had been called by the Tallahassee ministerial alliance at Bethel Baptist Church. On the previous night, the ministers and other leaders had met at Bethel AME Church, which then was downtown at Duval and I think Virginia streets, where Bethel Family lives and Bethel Baptist life center and middle





school is situated now. That first meeting was so inspiring. It was so exciting. To me, but not only to me but apparently the whole city because it seemed the whole city was out Bethel Baptist seated that time, while you could get about 800 people in the old Bethel Baptist Church. It was packed to its capacity, and people were outside and all around the church. Few churches, if any, had activism at that time. The windows were open, so people were outside listening as well. Cars were everywhere, and police were outside patrolling and taking down tag numbers to intimidate people because so many of the folk in Tallahassee were working for the county, the state, or the city. But everything was in high gear.

Everybody seemed to be in accord, anxiously anticipating what was going to come and celebrating what had already transpired. And me personally as a youngster, I was thrilled to see it. I was really, really proud of African Americans in Tallahassee and elsewhere at that time. People had come to Tallahassee from Montgomery, so when the boycott broke out in Montgomery December 5, 1955, we felt a connection there, and welcomed the boycott in Tallahassee. We had connections; my grandmother and grandfather still lived in Montgomery and other relatives. It was my mother’s birth place, and the first three of us children were born in Montgomery, so we had strong roots and ties to Montgomery. After the boycott in Montgomery, we couldn’t wait to get to Montgomery. We went every year part of the summer to my grandmothers who still lived there. She was an insurance agent and traveled all around Montgomery and close areas such as Prattville and Wetumpka, are right around Montgomery. So, we were glad to follow her, and she always fussed about her car being worn out doing boycott





because being on the road all day, every day, going places, she hauled a lot of people doing bus boycotts. She says they slammed her doors inside of the car. And so, that’s what people endured. Though Montgomery had purchased— Montgomery had [inaudible 15:26], which was the Inner-City Council of Tallahassee—had purchased a number of station wagons, and churches had as well, to carry people to and from during the boycott. So, having already experienced mass meetings here in Tallahassee, we went with her to mass meetings in Montgomery, which were simply awesome. They were awesome here as well. But it was so thrilling because Martin Luther King had been thrust into the leadership and to experience those activities in Tallahassee’s mass meetings seemed to follow the same pattern where the ministers were the leaders of the effort. Just to say a little about that, there were certain ones, certain leaders, when we were waiting for the leaders to come in, there were others there, and some were asked when that was a law, they were waiting for King and others to come to get up and do pep talks. It was a big rally, those mass meetings were. And they would start out with the person’s intendance opening up the meeting themselves because they would arrive hours before the meeting in order to get a seat. And some of those old sisters and brothers would start off with old-time, old-fashioned revival meetings. They would start singing and flapping and praying and testifying. It was something that would, I think, inspire and motivate a lot of people into action. Tallahassee was some different from Montgomery. Tallahassee was smaller, but its efforts were just as strong, just as bold, just as vandalous, threatening, what have you. My father was





elected president that very first meeting of the Inner-City Council. He had been named the person to preside over the first meeting the night before at Duffel A&E. And when he was elected, I remember distinctly seeing him putting his face in his hands and bowing his head, and I’m sure he must have said a prayer to accept the nomination and the election. And that’s placed us, our family, right at the forefront. Most of all, to attacks, threats, all things of that nature. I remember somebody saying something, I believe in the film, about they said “they were going to kill me,” but they would call and say that. We got those calls all the time. And how my mother stood under all those pressures, especially after my older brother and I became involved in the sit-ins. There were threats, at one time, my father was speaking in Perry, and word got out, and it came from a person who was working in a White couple’s home who overheard them discussing the possibility of assassinating my dad while he was over in Perry, or something of that nature as I recall. And I remember Reverend Dan Speed, who was a businessman and a minister got some others together and went over to Perry to bring my father back to Tallahassee. But there were phone calls, numerous phone calls, so many that we could not even answer and all through the night, until eventually they would put the phone down in the telephone seated with pillows over it in order to sleep at night. It didn’t matter who at the house answered the phone. The threats, the nasty comments and remarks continued anyway. My dad was very interesting with that. One person would call, they would call and say nothing many times. You would just hear breathing, and my dad decided to talk to the caller, and he would just talk to them about love and





non-violence, the movement, what have you. And during the course of the conversation on this occasion, he was called to dinner, and he told the caller that he was sorry, that he had to hang up the phone and go to dinner, but if you called back in twenty minutes, then we can resume this conversation. I think it was twenty or thirty minutes. Anyway, the caller called back, and my dad resumed his monologue. I heard him say that one individual that he talked to seemed to come around to express understanding and sentiments and regards to the movement. But Tallahassee was as tense as tense could be, but smaller than now. I think about 27-28,000 people in Tallahassee. But Tallahassee was thrown into the limelight and was in the news all over the country. We had news people from everywhere coming to our house and calling and coming to the meetings. At the mass meetings, there would be so many cameras with their lights, all the national broadcast people. And people from different walks of life and for different reasons came to Tallahassee, and you know the first place they were going to come to was our home. But my mother remained steadfast. She entertained people, she fed people. We had later on during the student sit-ins, people from CORE and thank God for CORE, the Congress of Racial Equality. The organization, Trisha and Priscilla Stevens were a part of them. We credit them for bringing CORE to Tallahassee. And what a movement was begun at that time. You never saw any two young people, college freshman age, as involved, as courageous, as persistent as these two young ladies were, and they became very close to our family. And as John mentioned a few minutes ago, Patricia eventually boarded with us and became like family in our home. So I know that





some of the things that had and Priscilla went through trying to go to college and try to lead the movement. I don’t know how they did anything in school because their hearts were in the movement. Totally. They were totally consumed with a passion beyond measure at that time. I can go on and on talking about what it was like at the b, what it was like open doors. People were coming and going all the time. Our lives were full of the movement. And that is my background when it comes to Civil Rights in Tallahassee. And as I said, it has followed me all my life. I haven’t always been as active because though I was arrested in Atlanta, Dr.

King [inaudible 25:32] bailed and came and got us out. On and on, I could go with that. But I am so grateful, our place and stance in the movement as it was back then, I still am and am appalled when I am reminded of those activities. And as I watched the film a while ago, it was just so touching and so astounding to see how so many of those people are gone. They are either dead or somewhere else, but it was important to the nation. All eyes were on Tallahassee, and I feel that in a sense Tallahassee has not been recognized as much as it should have been or should be through the years. But I think time and activities such as these keep the movement and activities alive in the hearts of people across the area and the nation. It was momentous, it was important to me and thrilling as well. I was so thrilled until going to jail at sixteen, it didn’t faze me one bit. I was very happy, not really realizing at the time how serious the matter was. I didn’t take care of that. [Phone rings] Okay, Curtis might have something else.

	R:	Yeah right, unh-uh. [Laughter] I certainly don’t have that kind of background to share, but I grew up in a small town just south of Jacksonville called Green Coast





Springs. I grew up in the segregated south. We attended segregated schools until I was in middle school. Of course, when Brown V. Board of Education and schools in The South and all over the country were forced to integrate, and so my first experience attending school with White students was again, when I was in middle school in my hometown. I remember those experiences vividly. Of course, I lived in an all African-American neighborhood, but it was like family. I had come from a large family of eight. My dad was military, and my mother was largely responsible for raising seven boys and a girl during those times. I remember those experiences vividly when we went to the movie theater, and we sat in the balcony of the theater and the Whites sat downstairs. That movie theater still exists in my hometown as a matter of fact, and we couldn’t go to the city-owned swimming pool. We had to be out of downtown by a certain time of evening.

There was a railroad track that separated the Black community and the White community in my hometown, and if you weren’t across those railroad tracks if you were African-American back into the Black community, by certain time—we had a whistle that blew. That whistle blew at seven o’clock in the morning, twelve o’clock in the afternoon, one o’clock in the afternoon, and then six o’clock in the evening. It had something to do with the work day. And if we weren’t back across those railroad tracks by six o’clock, by the time that whistle stopped blowing, then we had rocks thrown at us from the railroad tracks. I remember those days very vividly. And so that’s my history, and certainly, I was not involved personally with the Civil Rights Movement, but witnessed that through television and stories we were told growing up about Dr. King and others, because there were many





others. Dr. King is often referred to and rightly so, but there were many in communities throughout this nation that went through the same kinds of experiences that the Steele family went through. In order for us to make progress in this country and for young people at the time like me to be able to have the opportunities that I’ve had in life, which I have the opportunity to vote to get beyond the Jim Crow days and to be able to live wherever your finances would allow you to live, to sit in the front of the bus. And so, there were many issues playing in this country at the time that were really heavily based on race. And so, there were many African-Americans and Whites of good will because we couldn’t have done it without others of good will assisting in that effort to get us to where we are today. My fear is— and I’ll be sixty-three years old in October of this year. My fear is that we’re slipping backwards, and we’re losing many of the gains that individuals during Reverend Steele’s time and during that period of American history who were willing to give their lives. They literally gave their lives so that we could live a better life and have opportunities and live that American Dream. And unfortunately, there are not many who are dedicated to this today, and I fear that we are losing many of the gains that have been achieved. I mean we see that right here in our own community, where African Americans make up 35 percent of the population in the county, yet we have a majority African American school district. Our schools are becoming more and more segregated because we have mechanisms in place like charter schools and vouchers and opportunity scholarships where students, where we as tax payers, are paying for students to attend these segregated schools for profit charter schools and private schools





and leaving our traditional public schools handicapped, where 95% will be educated. We are leaving them handicapped because they don’t have the resources now that they need, financial resources primarily, in order to be successful. Many of our brighter and more successful students, of course, are leaving the traditional public-school system and attending the charter schools. I believe it was by design, I really do. This was not by happen stance. This started during the Bush administration, the Jeb Bush administration, as governor of the state of Florida when we started along this route of charter schools and vouchers and opportunity scholarship, and we’ve seen it expand exponentially over the last twenty years to the point where we are now that private schools and charter schools are receiving more tax payers’ dollars or as many tax payer dollars as traditional public schools are now. And so, that is my fear because education has always been the great equalizer in this country, and our parents stressed the importance of a quality education. That was the thing that prompted me to run for the Leon County School Board as a single Black male in Tallahassee. I had only been out of college for four years when I looked at the condition of public schools in this community and saw that—and this was before all of the school choice that depending on where you live and what school you attended, it determined in a large part the quality of education that you received. And so, I decided to run for the school board so that we would have a seat at the table when those kinds of decisions were being made, and I was fortunate that we were able to make a lot of really positive changes, but again, I see so many instances where the progress that was being made is being eroded over the years. So, there are lots





of issues that we have made tremendous progress, I cannot say that we haven’t. we have made tremendous progress. But if we aren’t careful, we will lose many of the gains that we were made in areas like voting rights. I mean, we see what’s happening now with felons not being able to vote. And that’s just the tip of the iceberg because we’ve got so many people now that aren’t registering to vote, they’re not participating in the election process, and so we don’t have people that are being elected that have our best interest at heart. And so, laws are being passed that will erode the gains that are being made. Individuals, now, are being appointed to courts who are very conservative and are not concerned about seeing to it that everybody has an opportunity to participate in this American Dream. They are now making it more difficult, particularly for children of color to attend colleges and universities. It is so expensive to attend colleges and universities in this country now. They are limiting the amount of financial aid that students are eligible for or have access to, the admission scores on standardized tests are being raised, and we know who that’s going to have a negative impact on in terms of their ability to attend colleges and universities throughout the country. And so, these are all issues that are very important to us, as a country, and where we are going, African Americans in particular, as a people based on the sacrifices of those who have come before us. Because I can tell you, I don’t know of anybody in this room that would walk out of that door and face a police officer or a sheriff deputy with a dog scowling at you or hoses being pointed at you or your life being threatened, I wouldn’t do it, but there were those who were. And so, the least that we can to ensure a future of prosperity for those





generations that are coming behind us, I’ve got two daughters, and I certainly want to make sure that they and that generation have opportunities even greater than the opportunities I had. Because there were those that did that for me, but they were willing to give their lives to make that happen. And so, the least that I can do, if I’m not willing to give my life, is to participate in the voting process and run for office and be there where decisions are being made and policies that impact our day-to-day lives in such a significant way. And every single day, our lives are impacted by decisions that are made by these elected officials at every level of government. We see what is happening in Washington now, which is totally dysfunctional. Absolutely dysfunctional. When we’ve got people without access to health insurance and even basic healthcare in communities throughout this country, but we can’t get healthcare legislation passed in Washington. We had a governor, here in the state of Florida that refused, when there were federal dollars available for it to expand Medicaid to provide health care, basic health care for those who couldn’t health insurance. That is unconscionable. And then we allowed him to be elected as our United States Senator, and I’m talking about Rick Scott. I’m talking about Rick Scott. We allowed him to be elected US Senator because largely we didn’t participate in the elections during that year and ensure that he was not elected and others like him because there are so many like him that share that same political ideology and philosophy about where this country is going. We see what’s happening in our criminal justice system, where African American males, young males in particular, are being locked up in jails and prisons getting a criminal record. And to have a felony record in this





country, is almost like being the walking dead because you can’t get insurance with a felony record. Now unless you get your voting rights restored, you can’t vote. There are certain place you can’t live. There are certain jobs that you can’t have, so it’s really like the walking dead. We almost encourage those people to commit crimes again and go right back into that same system. And so, we’ve gotta make sure that we have criminal justice reform in this country, so that so many of our people aren’t finding themselves in that cycle of incarceration and what that means for them and their families.

	P:	Can you bring out being the walking dead and talk about how this relates to what was going on in Gadsden County [inaudible 41:06] that caused you to [inaudible 41:09] In other words, I think you were very concerned about what was going on with the education system in Gadsden County, and Jeb Bush’s hand with charter schools. I think that’s what [inaudible 41:28], can you talk about how critical this is so that they can see your movement [41:37]?

	R:	Well, what is John is referring to is I started my professional career as a school psychologist in the Gadsden County School District. And one of the things that I see now, and I spent almost twenty years in that school district during various times. First, as a school psychologist, then I came back as a STEM coordinator for the district, but when I started work in the county, there were 15,000 students in that school district. 15,000. Today there are 5,000 students in the Gadsden school district. 95 percent of those students are African American, about 3 percent are Hispanic and another 2 percent that are White, and students are constantly leaving that school system because they view it as not being a quality





school district, but what happens to those kids who don’t have the means to leave? We have to ensure that they have a quality education as well. And so, that has always been an interest of mine, of course, because my background is in education, is ensuring that every student regardless of where they live in this country has an opportunity for a quality public education. And that really was one of the things that encouraged me to run for the school district, working in a school district like Gadsden and living here in Tallahassee and seeing the condition of the schools here in our own community and this was mid [19]70s, well no actually, it was a little later than that. I first ran for the school board in 1988, so this was the late [19]80s-early [19]90s, not too very long ago and conditions existed in our public schools right here in Leon County. And so, I could go on and on talking about the issues that impact the quality of life of African Americans and people of color in this country that we have got to begin to address unless there are going to be fewer opportunities available for our children in the near future for education, four housing. We see housing is so expensive, we see gentrification occurring in communities throughout the state and nation where Indigenous residents because of development are being forced out of their community.

Smoky Hollow is one clear example right here in Tallahassee. What was a thriving, successful African American community, the only vestiges of that now are some markers that we see downtown? I mean there are examples of that all over, but that’s again one of the issues that we’re having to address. Yes ma’am?





	S:	This is very interesting. [Inaudible 44:45] I’m Cecil Spoon. I am an attorney in Panama City. [Inaudible 45:15] I was very drawn to this whole program. I really appreciate everything you’re saying, and your personal experiences are really powerful. But you are in a position of authority, you have attained. So I’d like to know what is the place that you are working on that we can support specifically addressing many of the ills that you have mentioned because I feel that’s one of the problems people don’t know what you’re doing. And I would encourage you— at this time, its critical as you are working on these things we hear you [in audible 45:44] Of course, you represent everybody, all citizens regardless of what they look like, their sexual identity, any of that. And I know, I’ve been following you, and I know that’s your work and that’s what you do. But when you are actually trying to address long-term systemic problems that were started by the government—implemented by the government, and you’re tired of certain groups [inaudible 46:08] I need you need to be real clear about that in your legislation, and you just say this goes back to the years of mistreatment, lack of tax dollars, segregated schools. Say those words, so that a person who is not really listening real well can pick up and go “Oh, this is something I need to get involved with.” Because I think a lot of times, what’s happened is so many people, they are very complacent. Even most of us who benefitted from civil rights, we’ve been complacent for pretty much a generation. And so we need to activate this very specific language about what’s going on in a loving way, but just be clear about it because I think that’s what’s missing.





	R:	Yeah, and I think you’re right. If you followed my political career, that has been the approach that I’ve taken. For instance, here in Tallahassee, we see growth and development occurring all over this city except in traditionally African American neighborhoods like the south side of town and French town. And what my wife and I did to demonstrate our personal commitment to those communities, we built our home on the south side of town. We raised our family on the south side of town. We’ve been there for twenty-five years. We encourage others to invest in those communities. And I run at large—I run as a city commissioner we run a large, not from an individual district, and so I do represent the entire city, but the point that I make is that if we’ve invested tax dollars in revitalizing and improving all of these areas of Tallahassee, then it’s time now to invest in those neighborhoods and those communities that have been left behind. We can’t call ourselves an All-America city if at the same time, we’re one of the most economically segregated cities in the state.

	S:	So what are you doing? That’s my question.



	R:	We are pushing development towards the south side of town and to French town, but we have to be careful with that because again, with development and revitalization comes increased property values. And when you increase property values, that increases property taxes and so those Indigenous populations are not able to afford to live in their neighborhood.

	S:	How do you propose legislation to grandfather them in? I mean there are things that can be done, I feel, that can address the reality. I mean, this is my day-to- day job. I mean the inequities are gender based, they are religion based, they are





race based. When you see the pattern has been going on for so long, you kind of have to deliberately talk about yes, we want to raise the values, but we don’t want to push out the people that are there.

	R:	We talk about that.



	S:	Right. So whatever mechanisms— R:	 We talk about that.

	S:	Give them the credit. You know, do things to help— [inaudible 49:29]



	R:	But those are not things at our disposal. If you own property, and the value of that property goes up, then you pay the taxes on that increased property value. As a city, we can’t say because you live in French town, if your property values go up, you don’t have to pay. We don’t have that at our disposal.

	S:	You can help them with their water bill. I mean, I just think people need to be really creative and address the problem and really get down in the weeds. There are things that people can do are not doing. [Inaudible 50:04] the schools, the families. I mean, you just said. I’m totally outraged by what I see going on, so I feel like those [inaudible 50:15]. I’d be happy to sit down with you.

	R:	I can tell you Cecil. I have been at this for twenty years, almost all of my adult life in Tallahassee has been spent representing this community at different levels of government and fighting for African Americans and increased opportunities in our community. So you’re preaching to the choir.

	S:	Right, I understand.



	R:	And it ain’t been easy because you don’t always have all the answers. As Reverend Steele can tell you. His dad did not have 100 percent support from the





African American community here in Tallahassee when he and his family were going through what they were going through. So, you’re preaching to the choir here. That has been my commitment. Commissioner Williams Cox, same thing. She has dedicated her life, her political life and community involvement to improving conditions in our community. And we do what is available to us to make those conditions better. So, I mean like I said you’re preaching to the choir here in terms of the commitment that I have demonstrated. I mean, when I built my home in an area where so many were leaving and wouldn’t even consider building now and raised my family there. You don’t get too much more committed to that because I can tell you, the value of my home right now, if it was in the north side of town would be $100,000 more than what it is where I live now. And so that’s commitment.

	S:	I personally commend you for everything and nobody can walk [inaudible 52:02] that you’ve done, it’s beyond approach. I’m just saying right now I feel like as you stated, with all the things tumbling down and the active efforts to dismantle, I think we need to try new things in addition to everything that you’re doing.

	R:	But it’s going to take all of us working together. It’s not going to be one elected official, it’s not going to be government period. It’s going to be all of us working together in our respective places, African Americans, Hispanics, Asians, all people of good will who want to see conditions better in this country. It’s going to take all of us working together and being involved in government in all the ways possible. Voting, running for office, supporting candidates to influence policy





decisions that are being made. It’s going to take all of us to influence that process.

	P:	Thank you very much. We have a question up here.



	N:	Good morning everyone, I am John Nelson, Jefferson County right down the road.



Just wanted to share with everybody in here. You think Leon County is in a mess, Jefferson County is in a greater mess.

	C:	[Laughter] They took your school district.



	N:	Yes, and I’m going to talk about that. I’ve set aside yesterday and today to be at Tallahassee. I told my wife I’m wiping everything off my calendar because I’m one of those diehards. First of all, when you look at Attorney John Due that was the person [inaudible 53:44] and Kent Sprigs, they inspired me when I was small. I used to sit in the back of Memorial Missionary Baptist Church to listen at those rallies and those speeches. And of course, I wear this medallion today because there hasn’t been an NAACP president from [19]86 to [19]92 that actually achieved success in the county. And of course, I’ve known Reverend Steele when he first came to our Orlando at Mount Zion. I was living in Mother Eunice Jones apartment at that time. And of course, Commissioner Richardson and his wife came to Jefferson County on my behalf back then along with other citizens to address the education issues and received results. Now, I live in a county where first of all, I after retiring from state government after almost thirty- five years, people asked me to run for office, I was elected to a board of county commissioners and became the chair of the board and did great things in changing what I call myself the difference maker. That difference maker caused





me to lose my election by seven votes in 2014 because the community did not understand. The ministerial group didn’t understand what battle we had. Now when you look at the deterioration of the county, back in 1948 we were 40 percent of the population. Today, we are almost less than 31 percent. And so, why did the education system fold? Because superintendents were elected that did not meet the quality of education to lead and therefore, the department of education said “you guys had fifteen years of failed school systems.” No, we had fifteen years of failed educational leaders. That’s the testimony I put before the school board when they were talking about making Jefferson the only county in the state of Florida a charter school complete. There is no public schools in Jefferson County. So I’m here today at seventy one years old, looking for ways that I can continue to be a difference maker. And I’m one of those I’m not afraid because I’ve lived that life as an NAACP president going against Ted Turnman, all kind of people to be a difference maker. And I spend most of my time, I think I got up at about three o’clock this morning because I talked with the president of [inaudible 56:47]. We have to find a solution, how do we bring the religious leaders together, how we get our community back because as I told them, information I received from Dr. Ortiz when they were talking about going to a charter school. It does not work for Black and Brown students. And so here we are now, with a population where when our kids graduate, they are leaving, they won’t be there for another forty or fifty years if they come back. So I’m here to try look at ways that I can continue along with others to be difference makers and by the way, we’re also losing our land. We’re going to be meeting on June the third





to figure out how we can form an LLC to get all of this property that we have over there because we’ve got a hundred and some acres and say “hey man. How do [inaudible 57:47]. So I just want to say, everything that the both of you already said today is a reality in rural counties. There are forty rural counties in the state of Florida. And so, my job with whatever years I left in my life is to be that difference maker in Jefferson and hopefully that will kind of spread back to the urban counties as well [inaudible 58:18]. I just wanted to make that statement.

	R:	Thank you John.



	S:	Well Commissioner Richardson has certainly brought us to embracing to future and giving an assessment of now. And I think it’s wonderful that you got the commissioner to come forth this particular session because he is so much more articulate with the president [inaudible 58:54] than I am or would be. I see Gloria Anderson is waiting with the mic. And this probably will be explosive.

[Collective laughter]



	A:	Good morning. Good morning everyone. My name is Gloria Jefferson Anderson. I was born and raised here in Leon County. I have worked with the southern [inaudible 59:25] for over fifty years. I came in as a teenager, and then I married into the Kirkow family who [inaudible 59:34] from Jefferson county. And I have been at the table with them. I was a young, young girl, and I didn’t know a lot, but I remember the moments here in Tallahassee. And one of the things that thrilled me the most was the women. I wanted to say something when Hendric was speaking, but he was [inaudible 59:58] But anyways I being around the movement, I admire the women. The wife of Dr. King, the wife of Ralph





Abernathy, the wife of Reverend Steele, Ms. Rosa Parks, Ms. [inaudible 1:00:16]. Those women really were the backbone behind the men. And each one has a story to tell, and when you meet them, and I’ve met them, talked with them, just like you are sitting here today. I’ve been to many conferences, many, many meetings with them, and the way they carried themselves, they were so meek and humble and there was not a bit of anger in them. Now, I was a hot head, so after being around them, I learned how to conduct myself in their honor because they were so smooth, but they made a point. And I just wanted to add that we do have, and I meant to say that before, but we do have—I’m from the country John, I’m not from the city. I’m a country girl, so and I use that history. I don’t see why if Jackson, Leon and Jefferson counties are having these same kinds of problems, why not create a North Florida coalition of communities?

	P:	That’s in the works.



	A:	Leon County comes out of Gadsden County. Jefferson County comes out of Gadsden County. So Gadsden County has been the leader. And then that way, we can create more if we work together on the same kinds of problems, then that’s all over. The land issue—Leon County is losing their land too. It ain’t just French town and in this large community, south side. [Inaudible 1:02:06] I grew up in a neighborhood with about nineteen Black farmers, and about ten years ago, a developer bought vacant land in my community right at my father’s estate. And now, we have evening roads. Well, no I asked the developer. I said “Now we’ll add to our community. Are you all evening roads and [inaudible 1:02:34]?” He never answered that. But that’s happening all over. It ain’t just in town; it’s





everywhere. The little land that’s left, they are buying it up. They are buying it up. I couldn’t go on Sunday [inaudible 1:02:51] where I grew attended church. All that land is practically gone. So we do have life issues because Leon County was rural too. The only thing long years ago in Tallahassee was Mondo Street, that was a city, but everything else was rural. There were over 9,000 Black slaves in Leon County and about 2,000 Whites. So what I’m saying is the numbers have changed now, but with that information, and I do believe in history. If people understood where they came from, then they could sort of get some direction as to how they can move forward. You talked about the ministers. We have too many ministers that brought into your communities that don’t know anything about your community. The first thing the churches need to do is educate these preachers on the history of this community. Going back to when it first got started in 1822, or whatever it was. They need to understand the history before they can move forward because it looks good now, but it wasn’t always good. And we have to understand that. Oh! I have so much to say.

	S:	 Let me ask if anyone else because we—actually we are already into lunch time. A:	I know. Here is something else. Now, we have three and four movements here in

Tallahassee. When I leave town, I have to go in other communities like Montgomery [inaudible 1:04:43] this history. But in that time for Leon, maybe Jefferson and Gadsden to come together with a Civil Rights Museum. You know what? You know what happened just the other day on Facebook? I saw they have created something called a Florida Civil Rights trail. Tallahassee had all these movements, and they ain’t even on the list. And so, I did respond, and I





outlined to that group the moments that happened right here in Tallahassee, and they thanked me, but I don’t know what it’s going to get. Because all of this is history. You know, we can’t let this die. We can’t let this die. I spoke to three hundred kids back in February at Cason Elementary School, and I gotta say this. Fourth and fifth graders. And they were so excited, and I told them, I said “Do you all know that we had a little Ruby Bridges right here in Tallahassee?” I asked them, “Have y’all read the story of Ruby Bridges?” [inaudible 1:05:56] I said “do you know we had little Ruby Bridges right here in Tallahassee?” they couldn’t believe it, and I said you know what the name of the school was, and somebody [inaudible 1:06:07] It was a young lady. Her name was Jennis Melody Thompson. I said she was the first little Black girl, I’m talking to three hundred students now. They looking at me like this because they couldn’t believe it. I said she was the first little Black girl to integrate Leon county school system here at [inaudible 1:06:27]. And they couldn’t believe me. And I said let me tell you her story. I said “no, she was not like Ruby Bridges who had the officers walking her to school. Her big brother--her mother and pop had parked two blocks down the street, and her big brother who was a senior in high school walked her up to Kaye Sullivan.

		S:	Gloria we are very interested, but they want to move on with the program. A:		I know, I know you gotta go. Thank you.

	S:	Thank you Gloria. [Applause] and thank you all for being here and for being a part of today’s activities.





[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Katie Delk, October 6, 2021



	Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, October 11, 2021 Final-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, October 19, 2021