AAHP 114; Jay; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 114 Deloris Dunwoody Jay African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on August 21, 2010 24 minutes | 14 pages



Abstract: Deloris Dunwoody Jay reflects on growing up in Foley, Florida and attending Jerkins High School in the town of Perry. She also relates some of her family history, how her parents ended up in Perry, and other memories of their lives. She describes her own experiences going to Jerkins, and then her experiences with higher education, attending North Florida Junior College and then Florida A&M University. She then relates her work history, primarily in the education system in Taylor County, and talks about her children.





Keywords: [African American History; Taylor County, Florida; Jerkins High School]



Standards

1. SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.









































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 114

Interviewee: Deloris Dunwoody Jay Interviewer: Marna Weston

Date: August 21, 2010



	W:	This is Marna Weston with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program in Perry, Florida, at the Jerkins Community Center, at the Jerkins historic marker dedication and class reunion celebration on August 21st, 2010. I’m about to speak with Ms. Deloris Jay. Thank you very much for speaking with me.

	J:	Thank you, and let me add Deloris Dunwoody—that maiden name. [Laughter] W:	Would you please say when and where you were born?

	J:	I was born in Foley, Florida, which is about five miles south of Perry, in 1946. W:	Okay, and on what day?

	J:	On a Thursday.



	W:	And what was the date? J:	January 23rd.

	W:	Thursday, January 23rd. J:	Right, uh-huh. 1946.

	W:	And who are your mom and dad?



	J:	My parents are Collice and Francis Dunwoody. My mom, she was a stay-home mom at first, initially. She had two children; her husband died of pneumonia, and my father had one child, and his wife died of pneumonia. So back then, it wasn’t a love affair, or court affair, it’s just that he needed somebody assisting raising his children or his child, and she needed someone for her children. So, they married. And a few years later, I came along. So, that was it.

	W:	A match made in Heaven! [Laughter]





	J:	A match made in Heaven. My father’s twenty—was twenty years older than my mother. So, that, they’ve been together up until they were deceased.

	W:	So a May-September relation? J:	Right, yes.

	W:	Now, to talk about your grandparents for a little bit, and let’s start with your mother’s side: who were her mom and dad?

	J:	Okay, her mom was Maggie Williams, and they were born in Hamilton County in Hamilton, Georgia. Matter of fact, out there in Pine Mountain in Callaway’s Garden, all up in that area, many, many years ago, part of that land used to belong to my great-great grandfather. We had a family reunion just a couple of weekends ago; the Williams-Dunwoody family reunion. So, my father, he migrated from Jesup, Georgia. He came to Perry. First he went to Burton-Swartz Quarters, which was a sawmill here, and then he went to what’s called Cross City, Florida, and he worked there. And then, they moved the mill here to Perry, Florida, which was Proctor and Gamble. So, he worked there. My mom, later in years—my father didn’t want my mom to work. He wanted her to stay home and raise children. But, being the person that she is—that self-gratification for her— she took a course as a nurse’s aide, worked at the hospital; she was the first Black nurse’s aid—or, first Black person, period—to work into the hospital here, many years ago. After that, she decided that she wanted to go and finish her high school diploma. So, they had a night school program here at Jerkins. She came to school at night, worked during the day time, and I remember as a little girl I used to get my books and come with her while she was studying at night school.





She completed her high school diploma. Then later, she went to North Florida Junior College and she received her LPN License. To her, education was your freedom. Okay? And I have one brother and two sisters, and she believed that education will allow you to be free in life. My brother, he has his doctorate degree. He’s Dr. Eugene Mitchell. He lives in St. Croix, Virgin Islands. He’s retired now. And I have a sister in Atlanta, Georgia, who was the first Black RN to go to Emory University. She was among the first that moved in the hospital there.

	W:	What was her name?



	J:	Nellie Mitchell. She taught some classes at the university, and she worked there. She became a supervisor. And she worked there over forty-four years, and she retired. My other sister, which was the oldest, which is my father’s daughter, she was a stay-home mom. And she was raised here in Perry, but she married a man that had lived in Lakeland, Florida.

	W:	What were their names?



	J:	And so, they moved to Lakeland, Florida. His name was Ernest Mitchell. W:	And how about her?

	J:	And her name was Ida Mitchell. Okay? Ida Dunwoody Mitchell. So, that was it. I attended Jerkins—I was going to school in Foley, we moved over here when I was in fifth grade. I was frightened to death because it was a large class. My class consisted of probably like six or seven of us coming from Foley’s, like Dr. McLeod said—which, Dr. McLeod is my first cousin. Okay? His mom and my father were sisters and brothers. Went to school here. I became a young teenage parent. I became pregnant at age—I think sixteen. My mom, she told me, “Even





though you make a mistake in life, you don’t wallow in it. You have to continue your education.” Back then—you have teenage parents that attend they school, and they have all of these provisions for them; but back then, if you became a pregnant mom as a teenager, you had to go to night school. So during my eleventh grade year, I went to night school. After my eleventh grade year and I completed night school, come my twelfth grade year, I found out I was expecting again! My mom says, “Okay, that’s two mistakes, but you got to finish your education even more now.” So, I graduated from high school. We had to fight in order to allow me to graduate with my regular class. The class that I’m with now, we are very close. The young ladies Gerrie Newberry and Mamie Jo Monroe, we’ve been together for years and years, because they became teenage parents after they finished high school. Well, when I finished high school, my mom told me, she said, “You don’t just stop there. You’ve got to get a degree.” Okay, so, North Florida Junior College was there. I went to North Florida Junior College because at that time, Taylor County had a bus. And they provided a bus for the Blacks to go to North Florida Junior College and come back every day. So, my mom kept my two kids. I went to during the daytime, came home. She switched over to the night shift in order for me to be able to go to Junior College during the day time. A year later, my mom came down with tuberculosis. Okay? So then, I had to stop and come back home to help see about the two kids and my father. We did that for a year. She was in Tallahassee at a tuberculosis center. When she came back, she says, “Okay, that’s that. Now you going to FAMU.” I went to





Florida A&M University, and that’s where I graduated from. I came back, and I received the job here in Taylor County.

	W:	What’d you get your degree in at FAMU?



	J:	At FAMU, I received my degree in Elementary Ed, in early childhood education. W:	And what year?

	J:	196[0]—[19]70—I want to say [19]74. And later, I went to Florida State and received my Master’s in Reading and Early Childhood K-12 Elementary Ed and Special Ed.

	W:	And what year was that?



	J:	That was in 1981. Mmhm. Came back here—and always lived here in Taylor County—we came back, and my mom and the school superintendent’ mom was best of friends, because they worked together. When I graduated, my mom said, “Oh, I’ve got you a job.” [Laughter] I says, “What?” “I got you a job.” I says, “What?” “Oh, you going start teaching in August.” I say, “You got to be kidding, Momma!” She said, “Oh, no. I talked to Cecil Carlton’ momma.” That was the superintendent that time—“and he says he going find something for you to do.

Anyway, it’s going be teaching.” Lo and behold, it was teaching physical education! Never could play basketball, never could play volleyball, was all—I’m not a coordinated person at all. First year, I did that. Second year, I received the job at the middle school teaching comprehensive reading and math. And then, about three years later, I wanted to transfer and try my hand at Elementary Ed. So, working with those kids—third graders. Went over there and I worked two year,s and I was in my room one day and the principal called me. His name was





Tim Tripp. And he said, “Ms. Jay,” he says, “I need to talk with you, so would you come to my office?” I say “Sure.” And you know when a principal wants you to come, you kind of reluctant about what’s going on. So I went, and he said, “I want to talk with you about something. I received word from Glenda Hamby that we’re going have to take you out of the third grade classroom.” And I says, “What?” And he says, “We going have to take you out of the third grade class.” And I said, “For what reason?” He said, “Well, we need a coordinator for Title I, and Ms.

Hamby needs you.” Of course they didn’t say it, but I knew that I fit the criteria because I was the only person at that time with a Master’s degree in Reading. Okay? And I’m Black.”

W:   And what was the Principal’s name?



	J:	He’s Tim Tripp. Tim Tripp, he was the principal. So I said “Well I’m really—I don’t want that. I’m comfortable where I am.” He says, “Well, I don’t have a choice. You’ve got to go.” So Reba Alcott, she was the director, the district director, of Title I. Now I went to her and I talked to her about it, and she says “Well, onliest thing I can tell you is that you’re in the forefront at all times. If you do good, you’re there; if you do bad, you’re there. So you get ready for it.” And she said, “I’ll assist you in any way I can.” And I stayed there. We changed assistant principals—no, we changed superintendents. So, the superintendent that came in later after Glinda Hamby left was—what was his name? Padgett, Lester Padgett.

	W:	Now pardon me for cutting you off for a second, but I’m curious about the political structure here. Is the superintendent elected or appointed here in Taylor County?





	J:	They’re elected. They’re elected. And Glenda Hamby, her father and forefathers and all were from Taylor County. After she was out of office, then Lester Padgett came in; there were many, many Padgetts in Perry. So of course, which we don’t you know root for that particular person, that means you kind of like on the blacklist later. And me with my big mouth, I was rooting for Glenda, with the signs hanging up and all. And when Lester came in as superintendent, he found fit to see that he was going remove me. And I said, “Could you tell me why?” Well, he didn’t have a good reason why. So I told him this: I said, “You know what?” I say, “I didn’t ask for this position. You made me get in this position. And, I studied. I have always had a excellent audit. I learned this program up and down. I have people coming from every other county wanting to view our program.” Because at that time, you know, Taylor County Title I Program, we were like on the top. I said, “And you are not going put me out like that.” I filed twelve grievances against the superintendent. Won every last one of them. I stayed as the Title One Coordinator for nineteen years. And until they closed Gladys Morris school.

They phased Gladys Morris and what’s called Perry Elementary. They phased those two schools together, and they built a new school. And it was a political thing, of course. I worked at the elementary school there in third grade, and I found out, “Well, I don’t think I really like this.” But I worked there for six months, and my sister became ill with arthritis—the one in Atlanta, Georgia—and she had to have a hip and knee replacement, so I took a leave of absence for six months. And I went to Atlanta, stayed with her. Well, when I came back, the superintendent was Oscar Howard, which at one time he was my principal and





we were very close. He would come out and barbeque when I had family reunions and all. So, he called me and he says, “I want you to do me a favor,” and I said, “What’s that?” He say, “I can’t get anybody to run this damn reading program the way you ran it, when they had it over at Gladys Morris.” He said, “I need you to run a reading program. And we’ll send you off to be trained. Would you do it?” And I said, “Sure, I’ll do it.” So, I started running another reading program at the high school, and I worked there for four years—

	W:	This is Taylor County High.



	J:	Taylor County High School. Worked there four years, then Oscar called me again in his office, and he said, “I need your help.” And I said, “Okay, what you need?” He said, “The alternative ed school.” He say, “The state say they we are mandated to have a reading program over there, and nobody knows this damn reading program like you. And I want you to go over there for me; will you do it?” I said, “Sure. I got to work anyway.” So I went over to the alternative ed school, and worked there three years. I loved it. The kids, I mean, they—I felt that I did some good there, because the Black needed somebody there for them. I was the only Black there at the school. Anything happen, they will run to Ms. Jay. And I was their sole salvation. Well, after that, I thought, “Thirty-six years of it, I’ve had enough.” And of course, I was in a DROP program, so I retired from that. And basically, that was it. I’m married to a lovely young man, his name is Henry Jay Jr. My first husband, by my older two kids, we divorced at a early age. You know back then, I couldn’t—I don’t even fathom what marriage and love was like then, but I have wonderful kids. I have four boys and one daughter.





	W:	And what are their names?



	J:	My oldest son is Wayne Anthony Dunwoody, he’s over the computer engineering program at Florida A&M University. My other son is William Montez, he was a maintenance millwright worker. And he hurt his back, so he’s on disability. My other son is Henry Jay III, he works at Buckeye in the chemical room. He went to Florida A&M University. He was a Marching 100 for four years. And then, I have another son, which is Malcom Chas Jay. Malcom is incarcerated, because he was my little rebellious child. Good child, but he just decided education wasn’t his thing. You know, he was going do something different in life. So, he thought he needed to sell drugs. And it caught up with him. But praise be to God, he’ll be home in November. I think he’s seen his way. He said, “Mom, this life is not any good. It’s just not good, and I want to come home.” I said, “Well, you know sometimes God will put you in a position where you don’t care what Momma, Daddy, or grandparents tell you; you won’t listen. God’ll put you in that position where you going listen, and you going listen to him. So, he put you in closed bars so you can listen to nobody but him, and you know.” He was raised in the church, and he’s a good kid, but he just wanted to make the fast, quick money. And he found out where it got him. And he, he says “Mom it’s just Black, it’s so many Black men in here!” I say, “And that’s where they want to keep you.” So, I’m hoping he’ll do well. I have one daughter, which is Amanda Jay. She’s twenty- eight. She has one son—well, she has two boys, but they eleven years apart.

Conrad McNeal is her oldest son, and the next son is called Silas, Silas Collins. I also raised my granddaughter, who is the same age as my daughter. She has





cystic fibrosis, which is a rare disease, and it’s very rare for Blacks to have it. When she was tested as a young child, the doctors wanted to know, “We need to run this test again, because this is real rare.” So she became a big study case over there at the University of Florida. The doctors told us when she was born that she would live no more to be eight. She is twenty-eight years old, she received her degree in Nursing from Florida A&M University, she’s working on her master’s now. She is the beautifulest person that you ever want to see, and she lives in Texas. So. Actually, I birthed one daughter, but I raised two as a daughter. And that’s it.

	W:	Your story is fascinating, and I’d like to bring in the context of being here at the Jerkins reunion. Why are you here today?

	J:	I’m here because these are my roots. This is home. To me, it’s life. You breathe Jerkins, you sleep Jerkins. I mean, without this school, I don’t think that I would be where I am today. Even though the trials and the tribulations that I’ve had throughout life, Jerkins and my parents made it stronger for me. This is a bond here that nobody can ever break. It’s a chain. They say, you know, “The weakest link, it’s no stronger.” And, to see all of my classmates, and to look at, you know—many years ago we would fuss, fight, and argue. But that bond that we have with each other is there. It’s unshakable. It’s unmovable, and you relate the orange and green to FAMU, and it gets strong, and chills just get all over me! [Laughter] All over me.

	W:	So the Bisons are just baby Rattlers? [Laughter]





	J:	Baby Rattlers, that’s it, baby Rattlers. But I’m here because I thank God that I have made it in life. I’ve retired, and I’m not rich, but I’ve had everything I ever wanted in life. And I can get a few pennies out of the bank when I get ready. Married to a wonderful husband. We have seven acres that we purchased. We have the children live out there on the land, and we have a beautiful home. I have a car, he has a car. We have everything that life could offer right now. And Jerkins is responsible for it. My husband went to Jerkins. We were classmates. We were just in different sections of the class.

	W:	So, high school sweethearts?



	J:	Well we wasn’t sweethearts at that time. [Laughter] W:	But it ultimately got right.

	J:	But it ultimately got right, yes! So he’s—Mr. Hughes, could you ask Jay to step here a minute? Ask Jay to step here a minute. Ask my husband to step here a minute. He, my husband played football here. He was like the masculine guy. He was the one—he said “I’m the one that was never paying any attention,” so he had to marry me later in life. We were good friends. When I went to FAMU and he was in Vietnam, I wanted him to marry my roommate. And I tried my best for him to marry my best friend. We are best friends today. Her name is Cynthia Williams, and she lives in Brooksville. But no, we went out one time, and he says, “You know, I don’t like a lot of partying, a lot of drinking. Why don’t just you and I go out for a little while?” And I don’t know how we end up getting married. But we did.

	W:	Wow, so aren’t you glad you weren’t successful?





	J:	We’ve been married forty-two years. Yeah, we have, like I say, five children, and nineteen grandchildren, and four great grandchildren. So, yeah. But he was a pillar for Jerkins also, the Jerkins Bisons. And I think one year, they won championship, the football team did. And I can’t remember exactly what year it was. But he has it on the wall at home. But that’s okay. We’ve made it, and a lot of the classmates say, “How did you all get together?” Because he was just kind of like a wild type, you know? And I’m kind of meek, and humble, and shy and all. But we’ve somehow, God has kept us together for forty-two years.

	W:	When I think about all the celebration, the happiness, and people are laughing, having different conversations, I’m drawn to what the overall significance of this weekend is. I wanted to know if you could to speak to that. What is the overall significance of this Jerkins celebration?

	J:	Family. Family. The significance of it is that it’s family, and everybody here, we consider ourselves as being one big, happy family, and the roots of Taylor County, right here.

	W:	Well I want to thank you so much for the interview— J:	Here’s my husband coming right now.

	W:	Okay, terrific.



	J:	We’ll find out what year that they were championships. This is my husband, Henry Jay.

	W:	How you doing Mr. Jay? HJ:	How you doing, sir?

	W:	Doing great, I’m Marna Weston.





	J:	I told him we were classmates, and what year were you all champions? HJ:	[19]63 or [19]64

	W:	I spoke to Reverend Demps last night, and he told me about those two undefeated teams.

	HJ:	Yes.



	J:	And so he was one.



	W:	Yeah that’s a great achievement. Even today.



	J:	So this is my forty-two years of ups and downs, but we’re still together.



	W:	Terrific! Well, Mr. Jay, I’d like to get a chance to speak to you later; right now I have an interview Ms. Newberry. But, I hope to get a chance to talk to you about those undefeated teams. Because that’s an incredible achievement at any level. Especially at Florida high schools, because there’s great talent.

	HJ:	I think it was all attributable to Samuel Turner, the coach. He was the instrument part that put all that together, that made us all—made us what we were.

	W:	That’s what everybody keeps saying.



	J:	And let me add this: my husband is the first Black maintenance coordinator that Buckeye has ever had. He’s the first Black—

	W:	I don’t know what Buckeye is. J:	Explain it, honey.

	HJ:	It’s a paper mill. It’s a paper mill, yeah. J:	But he has a crew of how many?

	HJ:	Thirty-one



	J:	Thirty-one, and I’m proud of him. Very proud of him.





	W:	Well, thank you both very much. I appreciate chatting with you.



	J:	Okay, can I have your number? And I’ll get that information, and have her to call you.

	W:	Okay, thank you very much! J:	Thank you. Bye bye.

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Sandra Romero, September 2, 2015 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, October 10, 2017