AAHP 034; Moore; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 034 Mary Moore

African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Anna Brodrecht and Memree Stewart on June 1, 2010 2 hours, 7 minutes | 53 pages



Abstract: Mary Moore is a White woman raised in Nashville who married into the Moore family of Hawthorne, Florida. In this interview, she relates not only her own experiences in Hawthorne, but also stories of her husband Francis Moore and her knowledge of his and his family’s life in the area—including history of the Moore Hotel, which they owned. She especially focuses on the history of the Hawthorne library, from its founding to its present-day growth and development. Mrs. Moore also describes the general history of Hawthorne, and relates stories of race relations and integration.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida]



















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 034

Interviewee: Mary Moore

Interviewer: Anna Brodrecht, Memree Stewart, and Benita de Willoughby

Date: June 3, 2010



	B:	Hello, my name is Anna Brodrecht. I’m here with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program for the University of Florida. The date is June 3rd, and we’re in the apartment of Mrs. Mary Moore at the Atrium in Gainesville.

	S:	And my name is Memree Stewart. I’m representing the Hawthorne Library.



	D:	And I’m Benita de Willoughby, and I’m representing the Hawthorne Historical Society.

	M:	And I’m Mary Moore, and I’m representing the Moore family. [Laughter]



	D:	Okay. So as we get started this afternoon, what is your complete name? When you moved to Hawthorne, what was your name?

	M:	Mary Parks Mims Moore. I came to Hawthorne as a bride. I was married on June 19, 1948.

	D:	And where were you born?



	M:	Tennessee. And I grew up in Tennessee, attended schools. I lived in Nashville. D:	And how many children do you have?

	M:	I have two children. Dale Moore was born August 10, 1949. And Debbie— Deborah Brown, now, was born in 1952.

	D:	And do Deborah and Dale have children themselves?



	M:	Dale has two daughters: Diedre, who works for a national insurance company.



And Deborah lives in Melrose with three little boys, which are my great- grandsons. Diedre has a one little girl, Alexandria, and at present they’re living in Georgia, since Diedre was transferred up there for her job.





	D:	So when you first came to Hawthorne, you came as a bride. And you had mentioned earlier about how you came to inherit the Moore family—or basically, have the Moore as your family. Could you share that with us?

	M:	Yeah, well, you know, my husband had a wonderful sense of humor. So one day, one of my nieces and I were there talking, and he said, “You know, you all have sat here and cut all the limbs off your family tree. So I’m going give you all the Moores!” So, that’s the reason I know so much about the Moore family. Because I inherited them from my husband Francis. [Laughter]

	D:	So how many generations from the Moore family have lived in this area? M:	Oh, seven.

	B:	Wow.



	M:	Do you want me to name them, or is that okay? [Laughter] D:	Yes, if you’d like to.

	M:	Well, we’re start with W.S. Moore, who started the hotel. He came in 1882. So he, we’ll say his first son, was Glenn Dalton Moore Sr. Glenn Dalton Moore Sr.’s first child was Glenn D. Moore Jr. Glenn D. Moore Jr.’s first son was Richard Moore, who now lives—inherited the apartments, or the former hotel. Then, my son, Dale Moore. And Dale had two children. So that’s—are we counting? That makes five, I think. And Robert—no, did we? No we don’t count Roberts, I’m sorry.

	D:	Because he has never lived in Hawthorne.



	M:	That’s right. But Diedre did live in Hawthorne. And Debbie does live in Hawthorne. So, I think that makes seven.





D:  That’s wonderful. How do you remember Hawthorne as a community? Do you remember any special places or events when you moved there in [19]48? And you’ve been there for continuously all those years.

	M:	I think when I came, the Women’s Club sponsored all the good things that happened in Hawthorne. And usually, if they wanted something from the commission, I always observed those men wouldn’t deny their mothers. [Laughter] So, it pays to take your mother to anything where there’s younger men, because they are intimidated! Then we always, well we kind of had a sad school year, so the next year they had a big fish fry, and they invited the whole community to come. And it would be the opening of the school, and that continued for several years, thanks to Sid Martin for getting the money from the county. And it actually turned out to be a big political rally, but it was a fun thing to attend. And then, once, the Lions Club had a womanless wedding and that was funny. And my husband, Francis, was the jilted bride. And all of these things would happened at the high school, the old brick high school that was opened in 1927, I think. And when Harry Baker was bringing Francis down the aisle, Francis started this crying, and even the little kids were putting their hands over their ears. [Laughter] Everybody was so shocked! Because Francis was a quiet, serious person! They couldn’t believe he would come down the aisle like that.

And then, we had a wonderful little program once that I thought was good, was the Tom Thumb wedding. And Debbie, my daughter, sang the Lord’s Prayer. And it was so beautiful. Everybody kept saying, “We’ve got to give that child some voice lessons!” Well, we never had money for voice lessons. And then we had a





Dr. Floyd’s Day. Dr. Floyd had practiced from nineteen and ten [1910] continuously ‘til nineteen and fifty [1950]. Is that forty years of—? Dr. Floyd delivered nearly all the babies in Hawthorne. My father-in-law, Glenn Moore Sr., told me one time, “I never will forgive Dr. Floyd. He charged me ten dollars for Glenn Day, my first son. When Allen was born, he charged me fifteen dollars.

And when Francis was born, he charged me twenty-five dollars. And Francis was sitting up in the bed when the doctor got there!” [Laughter] Because Dr. Floyd would never come ‘til he shaved and put on his tie and coat. And that’s the way Dr. Floyd was, and it didn’t matter if you were dying or not, he wasn’t coming ‘til he was properly groomed. And I know that’s true, because I called him the morning Mr. Moore died. And Mr. Moore said, “Tell him not to put on that damn coat!” [Laughter] But, he did. Anyway, it was nice growing up there because we don’t seem to have that closeness of all the families that we used to have. My husband used to say, “Oh, you’ve got to move to Hawthorne when we’re married, because everybody will keep the children straight. They’ll recognize those long- legged Moore children, and they can’t get in trouble.”

	B:	Oh, that’s funny. Do you mind me asking how old were when you moved to Hawthorne?

	M:	Twenty-four. And my husband was thirty-two. B:	And where were you before that in Tennessee?

	M:	Well I was living in Jacksonville at that time. My parents had died and my sister lived in Jacksonville, so I moved to Jacksonville. And I’ll tell you about that when we talk about another subject.





	D:	Are there any other events or places that you’d like to talk about? You talked about the Women’s Club, and how important that was.

	M:	Well it really was. They started the Village Improvement Society. I think that was about 1912. And Dr. Floyd’s wife was the spearhead behind that, and Dr. Floyd’s wife was actually our first librarian of Hawthorne. She would order books from Jacksonville, and they would send a cart with books on it down to Hawthorne.

And she would keep the books at her house and loan them out, and then collect them back and send them back to Jacksonville. But in 19—well, probably [19]56, I think, the Santa Fe Regional Library was formed. I may be wrong on that date. But anyhow, the Santa Fe Regional Public Library started. And it consisted of Union County, Bradford County and Alachua County. And so, I believe it was [19]59, that they sent the first Bookmobile to Hawthorne. And we have a picture of that. We served punch down there, to the children. Had the 5th graders, I think, come from Shell school. And served—and Ms. Wadsworth’s pictures in it, Ms.

Stevens and Ms. Clifford Johnson. And we used to check out books from what was Frank Watson’s insurance company. And Frank was a member of the Library Board. So he had bought this insurance office from Sidney Godwin, and he and his wife would come over and spend the morning in Hawthorne, in this tiny little building that was where the bank is now. But it was just a tiny little thing that Ms. Sherouse had built for a little gift shop. And the bank, Frank used it as his insurance office, and then the bank wanted that building to start the bank. So, Frank had to move across the street, and we had to move our little collection of books across the street to what’s the Bates Building. And then, when Frank sold





out his business to Jack Williams, who lived down to Lake Street in the big white house, big, two-story white house. Well Jack didn’t want the library there, so the Women’s Club took it then. And the library was there ‘til the fall of 1966. And they had—by then, I had been appointed as the librarian or the clerk. And they told me they didn’t want to integrate their building, because Ms. Lanna always, well she was the librarian first, cause she was president of Women’s Club—she’d let the kids play with all the kids in the medical loan closet. And there was big old wheelchair there, and she’d let those kids ride that wheelchair all over the place. Well they say, “Now, you know we can’t put up with this, with the Black kids. So if any come, just get up and lock the door.” I said, “Well, I can’t do that, because there’s a federal law.” So, I went to the council meeting and asked them to give us a place, because the library said if you don’t move to a place where everybody’s welcome and it’s on the main street, we’re going to just let the Bookmobile come.” So, we didn’t want that. We wanted the library. So, I went to the City Council, and they said, “Well if you find a place, the Chamber of Commerce will pay the rent, and we’ll pay the lights and water.” So, we moved to that little building that’s next to Middleton’s Key Shop. It was 156 square feet at the time I moved in there. When I—after we moved and got the new building in 1969, they enlarged that little building for a plumbing business, I think. And a backroom where the piano teacher taught piano lessons. So, they did see that it was a good place to be in business. When we got the library building—actually, there was house there; the Spiveys’ house. And it was up for sale. And the City was going buy it for $5,000, and have the house torn down. And the Black





commissioner, Cornell Henderson, said, “Mr. Middleton, we want that house to put the neighborhood daycare center there.” And Mr. Middleton said, “Oh, we can’t do that. We’ve already dedicated that to the library.” And that was funny, because that was next to the last thing he wanted! [Laughter] So, we got a

$20,000 grant, library construction act. And Hawthorne borrowed $20,000 from Hawthorne Bank and paid it back with undedicated cigarette tax money. And that was paid for in two and a half years. Isn’t that amazing?

	B:	Wow, that’s amazing.



	M:	Anyhow, we have grown. The library grew till 19—we had a 3,000 square foot building. Very few shelves. We got a new library director, and he got some grant money from someplace, and put all the shelving across the back of that library.

	D:	So, the library that exists in Hawthorne today, was it smaller at that location?



	M:	At 3,000 square feet. And in 1990, they enlarged it 2,000 square feet. There was a house next door to the library, and it was moved down on to Lake Jeffries.

One of the Johnsons, Edgar Johnson, thought he’d help the library and encourage people to bid on it. So, Edgar bid 25,000 not really wanting the house, but he got it! [Laughter] And then, he moved it to Lake Jeffries. I think it’s still there, and it’s used as a rental property.

	S:	I have a question: when the bookmobile came to Hawthorne, where did it stop?



	M:	In the parking lot by the bank. And at Shell school. Mrs. Bloomer didn’t want us to have a library because it interfered with her Bookmobile. So, she went—but then she wanted me to get the books back from people that had checked them out at Shell school.





	D:	I’ll bet she did; I remember her.



	B:	Well, was this before the Alachua County Library District was about?



	M:	This was when it was Santa Fe Regional Library, and it was the three counties: the Bradford, Union, and Alachua—well Bradford first; Union County decided they weren’t getting their money’s worth, so they dropped out. And then, maybe a couple years later, Starke, Bradford County.

	B:	Okay, and then the Bookmobile was a private project. It was just somebody, an individual

	M:	No, it was—



	B:	It was part of the—



	M:	Santa Fe, yeah. Uh-huh. B:	Oh, ok

	M:	Yeah, the first time we had, countywide, a public library. They came on National Library Week to Hawthorne. That’s when we served punch to the children.

	B:	And could you talk a little bit about the undedicated cigarette tax. What was that?



	M:	Well, you know, every town is supposed to get cigarette tax money that is for cigarettes that’s bought in your community. Just like beer; I think there’s a certain tax that each town’s supposed to get back for—and maybe whiskey, too, I don’t know. But Hawthorne doesn’t have a liquor store.

	B:	Okay. And the city gets to keep that money. So they can put into different projects that—

	M:	And they did. And some of it was used, I don’t know what for. But this was money that had not been set aside. So they put that up as collateral to the Bank of





Hawthorne. And I think that was really wonderful that they would have that much faith, and that the bank would have that much faith.

	D:	Well, can you tell us a little bit about your early home life? I know you said you were born in Tennessee. But what was your early life like when you were a little girl? The house you were raised in, and how was it heated, and things like that.

	M:	Well, yes, I can tell you about it. But I can tell you more about the Moore house that I live in now. I lived in a very nice, two-story white house in Tennessee. The Moores bought that house that I live in now in 1913, I think. Since I just moved here recently, I don’t have any of my records. So if I’m a little off on the date, I’m sorry. But the Moores had three boys. Glenn Jr., Allen, and Francis, the baby.

And Francis and Allen were both born there in the house on Lake Street. Now, it’s SW 69th Avenue. But they had a very good childhood. The children, in the summertime, played under the house because it was nice and cool. [Laughter] And they played with their cars, or whatever toys they had, they played under the house in the summer. In the wintertime, it was heated with the three fireplaces.

There’s one in one living room, one in what was the dining room at that time, and I moved my dining room to the other fireplace room. So, there’s three fireplaces, and they heated it with wood. But both—

	B:	Where did they get the wood to heat the fireplace?



	M:	Well I guess you just chop down the tree; I don’t really know! But, we used to have a wood-burning stove, my husband and I, and we bought our wood from people that would come by selling it. And we always tried to get some lighter wood, because that’s good to start the fire with. Those Moore children went to





Hawthorne school. On Saturday night, the family would go down and park in front of Gay’s Store, because the store stayed open ‘til ten or eleven at night. But the Moores would take the children down, they played on the street. And the family sat and looked at the farmers or whoever was coming shopping. Anyhow, that was their Saturday night outing. And Francis said when he’d get home, his momma would make him wash his feet. And he used to tell me, “Don’t ever make my children wash their feet before they go to bed.” He said, “That is the worst punishment in the world!” [Laughter]

	B:	It was probably cold water, wasn’t it? It probably wasn’t heated water.



	M:	Well, I don’t know. But that house is a cold house to heat. But Francis said his mother always warmed brick and wrapped them in cloth, and put it at their feet to keep them warm at night.

	D:	And you’re talking now about the house on Lake Street, right? M:	Yeah.

	D:	And have we seen a picture of that yet? B:	No.

	D:	Let me show you what that looks like: this is a painting that Francis Moore did of his house.

	S:	Okay.



	M:	This house did have indoor plumbing when they bought it. In fact, so Mrs.



Stevens told me that at the hotel, at the Moores Hotel, when they got the first bathtub in town, they let the schoolchildren out of school to go see the new bathtub.





B:  That’s what Richard told us yesterday! And they had the schoolchildren come over to watch the toilet flush. Because it was a new thing in the town. So how was Moore’s Hotel, how did they come to be the first group that had a flushing toilet and a bathtub?

	M:	Well, it was business. When you’re—we had, or they had, all of these Northerners that would come every winter to come hunt and fish; Mr. W.S. Moore was a great sportsman, and liked to talk and entertain. Francis said Grandma did all the work, and Grandpa did all the talking. [Laughter]

	B:	Here’s a photo of that, that Richard has.



	M:	Mr. Moore would take the hunters out hunting, and take a cook along as a guide. And he would cook their lunch out in the woods. And W.S. Moore furnished the dogs that went hunting. And Francis said they would keep them out in the backyard with a chain on them. But it’d be a long one so they could all exercise all they wanted. But he said out there, back of number 9 apartment, he said that was just like that, all over the yard. Because of those dogs pulling themselves and running. [Laughter]

	B:	And did they hunt on foot or did they have horses?



M:  Well, the pictures I’ve seen of them, they were on foot. Yeah. In fact, I‘ve seen some pictures of the men in the trees, shooting fish in the water!

B:  Wow. I think we saw—Mr. McMeekin showed us a picture of people hunting—or, they would hunt trout, shoot trout, from the bank. Instead of fishing for them, they would shoot them.





	M:	Yep. That’s what they say. Well, you want to know how we got water. Well, Mr. Moore had—W.S. Moore had a big windmill in the back of the hotel, and there’s pictures around, and Tommy Middleton of his mother sitting in a swing. But you can see the big windmill over the back of Moore’s Hotel. And then, they had carbide lights. Well, they used carbide for the lights at the hotel, and also at our house.

	B:	What is carbide?



	M:	It’s a lime and water, and I don’t know what else. I really don’t. B:	And it burns like a flame? You have a flame?

	M:	Yeah, it makes a gas.



	D:	Didn’t they also use that to paint the hotel? Richard said that they used that to— M:	Whitewash?

	D:	Yeah, they used that at some point to paint, put white coat on the hotel.



	M:	Well, some people did, but Francis always told me they were too poor to paint, and too proud to whitewash. [Laughter] Now, I don’t know, because he would say things because it would make me laugh. So, you know, I don’t ever know when it was true and when it wasn’t. But Francis said when he was a little boy, he was over there, and his grandmother was keeping him at the hotel. And he was out there in the back throwing grasshoppers into that carbide stuff, and he got overbalanced and fell in. So, they told him, “Don’t you open your eyes because you’ll go blind.” So he said they kept him down in bed for three days. And Grandma Moore, Jenny, said, “I’ll just dedicate the rest of my life to taking care of





that little blind boy.” He thinks he said he opened his eyes when they weren’t looking, but—. So, is that enough about—?

	D:	Yeah, that’s fine. I just had one other question. Do you recall like a sulphur water? Was the water kind of a sulphur-y taste at the hotel?

	M:	Not that I know of. I know that is true in a lot of Florida.



	D:	Because Richard says as a boy, he remembers that kind of tasting—the water kind of tasting sulphur-y or smelling sulphur-y.

	M:	Not that I remember. I’ve had friends that did. And after partying on Saturday night, the last thing you want to smell or taste is sulphur water! [Laughter]

	D:	So, in terms of your parents, did your mother work outside the house, or did she just pretty much stay and take care of the children?

	M:	Well, we’re talking about the Moore family, not my family. The Moore family, May took care of the children mostly. But if Glenn went out of town or something, she went down and ran the Ford agency. And she fired two of the workers, because they were kind of grumbling about having to work such long hours. So, she just fired them. And one of them was Mr. Guy Lindsay, and the other one was Joel Smith, and they turned out to be very prosperous men. So, she did them a favor! [Laughter]

	D:	So this was May Moore?



	M:	Yeah, May, Francis’ mother. Yeah. But, she didn’t work during the Depression when—well, let me go back. In 1925, W.S. Moore stepped on a nail and got blood poisoning in his foot, and they never could cure it. And he died of gangrene poisoning. So, Grandma Moore—Miss Jenny—sold the place, and for seven





years the hotel was run by some other people from Jacksonville. Well, during the Depression, they couldn’t pay for it, so they had to repossess it. And Glenn Sr. hired Sidney Scruggs to do all of the management of the suit. And Francis and Glenn Jr. had to go over there and sleep every night to show possession. So eventually, Glenn Sr. told his wife May, the mother, that, “If you’ll go and close up this house”—I’m living in what was their house—“If you’ll just close up the house for one year, we’ll move back.” Well, it never worked that way, so May ran the hotel and Glenn Sr. did the Ford agency and farming. Well, before that, before he got into the Ford agency, he was a rural mail carrier, and delivered it on motorcycle. And there’s a picture of him where he caught a rattlesnake, one of those huge ones, while he was on the mail route. But Mr. Moore was always thinking up more things to get into. He sold Nancy Hall sweet potato plants and shipped them all over the country. And he had an orange grove, and he had an okra patch. I know, because Francis said he used to have to go pick okra sometimes. He didn’t like that job.

	B:	Okra’s pointy. It’s itchy, too, if you get it on your skin. That makes sense. M:	Makes blisters on your fingers.

	B:	Uh-huh. Yeah, I’ve picked some okra.



	M:	The household chores: everybody, nearly, had a maid that did most of it. And I know when they wanted to know about how they did their laundry; well, they sent it to Gainesville, the sheets and the men’s shirts. At the laundry, it was Mr. Cohn in Gainesville would send the truck to Hawthorne to pick up the laundry, and then deliver back on, usually, Saturday afternoon. But your clothes, usually you had a





washwoman that did them before washing machines ever came in. I don’t remember that May ever had a washing machine. I did, but I don’t remember her ever having one.

	D:	Well, when she—when they had the actual hotel, and were renting rooms, she must have had a lot of laundry to do.

	M:	Well, that went to Gainesville. D:	It went to Gainesville.

	M:	Yeah. All those sheets? Yeah. And pillow cases and stuff. Yeah. B:	Was it expensive to send all those sheets to Gainesville.

	M:	I don’t think so, because I sent mine too. [Laughter]



	B:	So you think it might have been cheaper to send it than to have somebody wash it in Hawthorne?

	M:	Well, yeah, and if you wash it by hand, like they used to have to do, have one of those pot-bellied iron wash tubs that you’d put boiling water in or built a fire under it. And, gosh, that would take a long time, to do all that!

	B:	Then you’d have to buy the firewood



	M;	Well, I imagine you picked up enough firewood around. I don’t think that would have been a big expense.

	D:	But Jenny must have had to wash a lot of clothing like that. M:	Well, she had plenty of servants.

	B:	She did.



	M:	Oh, yeah. And they liked working for Jenny. They didn’t like working for May. But Jenny—in fact, there used to be a little house in the back that their favorite maid





lived in. And I guess she had some wine or something, and she—Glenn wanted some of it, Glenn Jr.—and he drank it, and he got very sick. And they called Dr. Floyd, and Dr. Floyd came and he said, “Well he’s just drunk.”

D:   This is Glenn Jr.? Richards’s dad?



M:   Yeah. When he was a little boy. [Laughter]



	M:	That made May Moore very angry, that anybody would say that her child was drunk. But he wasn’t but three or four years old! [Laughter]

	B:	And how did families find a maid to work for them?



	M:	Well, the Black people that lived in Hawthorne, that was mostly the only way of income, was farm labor because it was a big farming community. And either you worked picking beans or whatever was growing, or you worked in someone’s home. And a lot of people did both. They’d rather go the field and pick than be working at home. We didn’t like that at all. Many times when I was used to having a babysitter, they’d go pick beans instead of looking after my children. One time when I came home from somebody, I guess my little son Dale had been bad.

She said, “I could have gone fishing for my something to eat today.” Now that would have been better than looking after a little ugly boy.

	B:	Well, did they come to you and ask for work, or did somebody go out and find people to work in the homes?

	M:	Well, you just knew who would, and who was a good worker, and who was a good cook, or good—you usually had a different cook, a washwoman that just did laundry, and then one that cooked and kind of cleaned house.

	B:	And how much did they get paid—or did they get paid?





	M:	Oh, yeah, they got paid. Well, I hate to tell you, but I can remember when you paid about three dollars a week to have a maid.

	B:	Was that a lot or a little?



	M:	Well, it was pretty good considering people were working for fifteen cents an hour, or a share farmer. But they would come for breakfast and stay through dinner most of the time. But then, they always, when you hired them, they wanted to know if they could tote. And that means could they take food home. So, they cooked enough for their families when they cooked for us. And sometimes, you’d go back, look in the cabinet for something, there’d be a pile up there that Blanche intended to take home with her, but we got to eat it! [Laughter]

	D:	I know that the hotel had a garden in the back. So did you all rely on growing your own vegetables a lot?

	M:	Not in my time. I don’t know. Not in my time. Now, we kept a cow out at the farm which is now where the sewer system is. But that was a farm then. The cow stayed out there during the day, then somebody’d go out and bring her into town and milk her. Then the next morning, they’d milk her and take her back to the farm. And Francis said—by this time they were living in the brown house— brown-colored house. [Laughter] That doesn’t sound right, either. Anyway, Francis said he’d about worried Glenn and Allen to death till they taught him how to milk. He just was dying to learn how to milk. And he learned, and he said they never milked another day. [Laughter] So it’d be his duty to go get the cow, and bring her in, and then take her back. So he said, in the morning he’d need to get to school, but he’d ride the cow. And somebody, well he’d get on the cow after





he’d passed the Ford place so his daddy wouldn’t see him. But somebody reported him that he was riding the cow. So, that ended that. He had to walk it there and walk it back.

	B:	Wow that’s a great story. M:	Is this going too much? D,M,S: No! Not at all!

	D:	We’re going to show the hotel. There’s the hotel. Now Mary, this painting that we’re showing now, do you remember approximately when this painted by Kate Barnes?

	M:	No, I don’t. But I commissioned her to paint it, I would say about 1976. Maybe. D:	And you lived at the hotel for a portion of the time in Hawthorne also.

	M:	I lived there when I first married. I lived there until Dale was born. And then we moved over to the Lake Street house. And then when Mr. Moore died in 1951, May said she could not live there by herself. And Glenn Jr. said, “Mary, if you and Francis’ll move over there, I’ll make it up to you.” So we lived there ‘til Debbie was born, I guess. And it just didn’t work out too well, ‘cause if I cooked grits, the pot was too big or too small. So anyway, we moved back to our house, which we’d been renting out.

	D:	So, when you first moved into the apartment, though, when you were first married, what apartment did you live in?

	M:	Number 5 upstairs, with that little porch. But Mr. and Mrs. Moore wouldn’t let me cook, and that’s the only part of housekeeping that I was any good at! But they would not. We had to go down to eat breakfast, and lunch, and dinner. And that





was hard on me. It was! [Laughter] Francis would go down and get me a cup of coffee and bring it back to me. So I got the reputation of being a spoiled woman. Poor Francis having to take coffee upstairs to the bride. And Francis picked me up and carried me over the threshold. Mr. Moore said, “Well, what’s this all about?” [Laughter] So, Francis tried to explain to him that that was showing his that she was going to be protected and carried far in her new home. He said he didn’t know anything about that stuff.

	D:	So that was doorway into Number 5, that he carried you over the threshold? M:	No, up the steps into the bedroom.

	B:	Let me show you this photo from yesterday. Hold on one second. There’s the threshold with Richard in it, opening the door. So he carried you up these stairs, huh?

	M:	No! Not before we got up the steps, and then the door going into the bedroom. B:	Oh, there is no door there, I don’t think, is there?

D & S: Yes, there is. Uh-huh.



	D:	That’s a great story. Wonderful. M:	Well, we were very much in love. B:	How did you meet him?

	M:	I was living in Jacksonville, because my parents had died, and living with my sister and her husband. And Francis was living in Jacksonville. He was a trust officer at the Florida National Bank. Well, one Saturday, two of my friends were going go down to Wildwood, because this girl had married and her husband was getting out of the Service. Anyhow, we went to get on the bus at one o’clock, the





Greyhound bus. Now, cars weren’t being manufactured much; this is right after World War II. So, the bus was filled up. So we tried to rent a car, and none of us had a Florida driver’s license, so we couldn’t rent a car. We went back at 5:30 and got on a Greyhound bus to go to Wildwood. And Francis was on that bus.

And the bus broke down at Starke. They sent another bus, and we went a couple of miles, and it broke down. They sent another bus; we finally made it to Lawtey, and the bus broke down. And we were there seven hours. At four o’clock in the morning, Francis lit a newspaper and went out and flagged down the train, so that we three girls, and he, and his—Clifford Johnson and her daughter Ann Noble, which were cousins of Francis. He always called her “Cousin Clifford.” So we continued on our journey. And by that time, he had taken me for coffee in a little dump in Lawtey. [Laughter] And it got cold, and he let me have his raincoat. And I put my hands in the pocket, and here was a brand-new pair of nylon hose all sealed up in the plastic. And I said, “My gosh, nylon hose!” He said, “Yes, I’m taking them to my mother.” And I thought, “Oh, I bet you are!” [Laughter] Who takes their mother nylon hose? But he told me he had stood in line to get the hose in Jacksonville for his mother. Which was true, but he was so good-looking, I thought, and so nice. I just really liked him. And he told me that he worked at the Trust department, Florida Bank. But I really—and I went to Florida Bank every day to make a bank deposit, because I was district cashier for Firestone Tire and Rubber company, and handled all the money that came from South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida. So anyhow, Francis invited us to get off and spend the night in Hawthorne the rest the night. Well, he didn’t tell us his family





had the hotel. So of course, we weren’t about to get off! [Laughter] We arranged we’d meet the next day on the train, but we didn’t. We came back by bus. And he had to—he had my telephone number, and he told me his brother was an architect in Jacksonville, so I kind of thought he was all right. So he did call me for a date, and I knew he really liked me, and I went home and bragged. And I said, “That old boy’s gone be sitting on my doorstep every day!” And he didn’t call me for six weeks. And I only went with him the next time to see what was wrong with him. Because I knew he really liked me. And so, see, he’d had a girlfriend in Hawthorne that he had to break up with.

	B:	Did you ever know who that was? M:	Oh, yeah!

	D:	Oh! So you met her.



	M:	Yeah, I did. I knew the one that was his girlfriend all the way through school. And she wrote him, told him if they didn’t get married, she was going to marry somebody else. So she told me herself that he wrote her the nicest letter, and said that he would not get married being in the Service and having to go overseas, that he could not. So, she did marry somebody else. And they had a nice family. She’s a nice girl. Did I lose my train of thought?

	B:	No, no, that was an excellent story.



	D:	What are your memories of the train in Hawthorne? Did that play a significant part?

	M:	Well, yes. [Laughter] And the first night I spent there, when that train went through at four o’clock in the morning, I thought it was coming through the hotel!





Up there in Number 5, I swear! And that horn would start blowing, I think, in Lochloosa, and not stop until it got to Campville. So, there’s no way you could sleep though it ‘til you’d been there a couple weeks, and then the train kind of disappeared. But the trains were so important, and they had stations at both ends of town. And people rode the train to Jacksonville often. Because I say, cars, they just hadn’t made enough cars for people to even buy one. So, hauling all that produce out of Florida was a great advantage.

	D:	So you could—as a person, you could actually board the train in Hawthorne?



	M:	Oh yeah. Up at the north end of town. Well, now that place is kind of fenced off by that little store there. But there’s property there that has a chain-link fence.

	D:	By the overpass on State Road 20? M:	No, this side of the overpass.

	D:	Oh.



	M:	But—and it’s funny, they say the man that bought that property, after he bought it, they found out he doesn’t have any access to it! [Laughter] Because the railroads owns the property there. So, they’ve never done anything with it. It’s just fenced.

	D:	So, in terms of some of the areas around Hawthorne—I know you’ve mentioned Magnesia Springs in some of our discussions. What was that like? What was Magnesia Springs like?

	M:	Oh, it was wonderful! The coldest water I’ve ever felt. And it had artesian wells.



And if the water got low, Mr.—oh gosh, he slipped my mind—would just bore another hole, I guess, in the ground, and the water would come up! [Laughter]





But he kept that pool so nicely, and no children were allowed to eat in there or drink. And if anybody came with dirty children, he’d say, “You bathe those children ‘fore you bring them in here!” And I’ve heard him do that many times. But Francis helped build the children’s swimming pool, helped dig for it. Now, he was young then. And I’ve heard somebody say what date they built it, but they were wrong, because Francis did that when he was twelve or thirteen years old.

Because he always remembered that he caught a flying squirrel out there that day, and that thing nearly ate him up before he could tear him loose of it! [Laughter] But that was a fun thing, and families went there for picnics. And Mr. Kelly, Mr. Harper Kelly owned the springs. It was eventually owned by some Browns. And then, Mr. Kelly’s wife, I guess she was—seems like her name was “Nellie,” but I may be wrong—she ended up with that property at the springs, and cleared to the Highway 28, or Magnesia Springs Road. But it was a beautiful, clear water, well-run. And they had a watering business there, too. I guess one of the sons bottled water in those five-gallon container jugs, and ran a truck.

	D:	Do you recall the hotel purchasing water from Magnesia Springs?



	M:	Oh, yeah. Mhmm. Yeah, they did. Mr. Moore always thought that was healthy. And in some of those little booklets, it says that, about one man, he didn’t think he’s see the light of day much longer, and then he drank that water from Magnesia Springs, and he lived to be a successful businessman!

	S:	Mary, I’ve heard that there was a trapeze at Magnesia Springs. Do you remember anything about that? A swing or something over the pool?





	M:	No, I don’t. I know there was big diving board, but I don’t know. I never learned to swim because when I was a child, polio was so bad that you just didn’t let your children go close to water. And Francis was going to teach me to swim. Out there, everybody looking at Francis’ new bride. I thought I’d die. I said, “I’d rather drown.” [Laughter] So, I never let him. And he always kind of resented that. And he said, “Well I’ll tell you, I’m not having a child that can’t swim.” And he did teach them to swim. But he never taught me.

	S:	Was your wedding ceremony in Hawthorne? M:	No, I had it in Jacksonville.

	S:	Okay. So, did the whole Moore family come up to Jacksonville to see the wedding?

	M:	Well, Glenn, the older son, Francis’ older brother, was in the wedding, and Dorothy played her violin at my wedding. Mr. Moore didn’t come. After he had had a heart attack, things just made him nervous. I mean, I don’t know why, but anyhow, he didn’t come to my wedding. But several of the Moores’ friends came.

	B:	When’s your anniversary? M:	June 19th.

	B:	Oh, okay; no, you said that earlier.



	D:	So when you first moved to Hawthorne, was it—how was it, coming from Jacksonville, in a big city, and then moving to a small town like Hawthorne? How was that as a young—?

	M:	Terrible. Mr. Moore used to tell me I had to Jacksonville to buy a spool of thread. Because every chance I got, I went! [Laughter] Well, it was—and you know you





felt like if you walked down the street, everybody was looking at you. I wasn’t very happy except when Francis get home.

	D:	But that must have changed for you as years went by, because you seem to love Hawthorne so much.

	M:	Oh well, I do! Yeah. I do. No, I think the kindest, most wonderful people in the whole world live around there. You may not be fortunate enough to meet them, but they’re there. And they support the good things for the community. But so many have died off—well, that doesn’t sound very good, does it? But, that’s my Tennessee brogue. They’re just kind, gentle people, but used to some of the young ones that never put any money into the town, but they always wanted to rip off everybody else. And then they’d say, “Well, we’ve got to have a few more funerals for Hawthorne come to amount to anything.” Well, I think we’ve had all the funerals now! [Laughter]. And there’s still people trying to take advantage.

But, so we’ve just seemed not to have had the strong leadership in these, the last thirty years, that we used to have.

	D:	Well, didn’t Francis, your husband, wasn’t he mayor of Hawthorne?



	M:	Yes, he was. He was mayor, and at that time, you had to be the judge. So, people would get a ticket for speeding, or a DWI, or all kinds of things. And he would have to hold court and sentence them. And at that time, he was running the Ford place, and his head mechanic got a DWI. Francis held court and took his driver’s license for a year. And that man said to me, “You’ve got the dumbest husband.” Said, “You know, he has to come and get me every morning to go to work. Then he’s got to bring me home every night, because he won’t give me





back my driver’s license.” Well, and we had a crooked policeman that was giving—he kept two sets of books. And one, he would take the cash and keep it, and the other one he would take their checks or something and turn it in. And we, Francis kept getting letters from these people, and saying they thought there was something crooked going on. Sometimes, they would demand that he bring them to the house to see the judge. And maybe it’d be midnight, Francis would have to get up and hold court on the front porch. And he usually let them go, and it made the policeman so mad, I was always afraid he might shoot Francis, because he’d really make him angry, that he would let them go instead of fining. So, yeah. And Francis always claimed—his claim to fame was when Sid Martin ran against him for Mayor, he beat Sidney, so. [Laughter] That never was very popular with Sidney.

	B:	Could you tell us who Sid Martin is?



	M:	Well, he was a great big man that lived in Hawthorne. And he did go to the University of Florida. And when he came back, he married a lovely woman, a pretty woman, Margaret O. Quinn. And they started a little dry clinic plant right there in Hawthorne. She did all the work down at the drycleaning plant, and he cooked lunch. [Laughter]

	B:	It’s usually the other way around isn’t it? The lady would do the cooking.



	M:	The never had any children, and he later divorced her and married another woman that people really liked because she was friendly and talented. And, before Margaret ever left Sidney, he had her hating everybody in town because he’d say, “So-and-so said this about you.” So, she quit speaking to nearly





everybody, so nobody cared when she left except me! And I knew what was going on! [Laughter] Anyway.

	B:	So why did they name the Hawthorne road, is it 20 that goes back and forth from Gainesville to Hawthorne? Why did they name that—?

	M:	Because his relatives were, one of his brother-in-law was on the commission.



Politics. He was our mayor at one time, and then he was county commission for probably twenty years; I don’t know. And then he was state representative. And a real politician, and shrewd. He never did anything for Hawthorne. But over at Alachua, they’ve got that park named after him over there. If we’d something like that, that would have helped our town so. But this is, you go where the votes are, if you want to be elected. Is that all right to say on the—? [Laughter]

	D:	So, I’m just going to skip around a little bit, but you had spoken before about Hawthorne being an agricultural community, and a lot of beans were raised, and they had, I guess, sheds where people worked, and people processed that.

Could you talk a little bit about how that was for the economy of Hawthorne?



	M:	Well, it was all farming land. It was either vegetable farming, or turpentine, or cotton. And cotton was really a good industry ‘til the boll weevil got it. And then, the turpentine industry was really big, and people made—mostly the Edgar Lee Johnson family made lots of money on turpentine. And that scum or something that they put on the—that comes on the top of the turpentine, or the trees; I don’t know. Anyhow, they say they used to didn’t have anything to do with it, and then when the war started, that they made ammunition out of some of that—well, I don’t know what you call it.





	D:	Is it like a sap or something?



	M:	Yeah, and they cut little things about like that out of a tree, and hung a pot there to catch the resin. The resin’s what, I guess. Did they boil it? I think they boiled it or something. And then that scum that came off of it’s what they used to sell for military use to make explosives. And the lima beans were a big, bit thing.

Fordhook lima beans, and they used to say Hawthorne was the capital of the world for those fordhook lima beans, and this employed a lot of the Black people in Hawthorne. Well, the Johnsons that owned several thousand acres, I don’t know how many, they sold the land because Edgar got glaucoma and went blind, and his son Leo had been in World War I, and had been gassed. So, he died when he was about forty-two or something, and left Mrs. Clifford with four children, one girl and three boys. And, but when the Johnsons sold all this land to the tree people—Owens-Illinois, I think—it just took the whole industry of farming away from Florida, from Hawthorne. And it left us with a population of unemployed Blacks. Oh, it was something I was going to say about that. Oh, about the lima beans, Mr. Guy Lindsay, who May Moore fired at the Ford place, was really a mechanical genius, I think. He invented the first refrigerator cars.

And before then, vegetables had never been able to ship up North. But he had the beans, and put ice in there, and he had—well, they called it a putt-putt motor. But like, fans blowing over the ice to keep the vegetables cool. And he was really successful with this. And he sold his patent on it. And didn’t make—I mean, he could have made a lot more money if he developed it better, but it was, that was the way it was begun. And they shipped out to New York, and Mr. Lindsay had





him an airplane. He’d fly up to New York and see the market was, and get the price settled before the beans got there, being shipped by trucks. Well, they shipped the ones that were cooling that way, he shipped by truck to New York and Pennsylvania.

	B:	Did they have packing sheds in the city of Hawthorne? M:	Yes, they had three packing sheds.

	B:	Are any of them still standing?



	M:	No, no. Up there, they took one of them down. Was—well, when they cut the new road off of 301 to come over across through 20 and to the post office area, there was a big packing shed there. Then there was another big one down past that feed store that McMeekin has. There was a big packing shed there. And I think there was one on the other side of the street. I know the two were there when I came in [19]48. In fact, a lot of the women, or several women, you can recognize in the picture that we have showing them running those—they graded the beans, run them on conveyer belts. And just packed them. But Mr. Lindsay was a very interesting man. One time, he ran for the commission. And while he was on it, he planted some rosebushes down the street. And every once in a while, you see one of those little old rose bushes still trying to survive.

	B:	I have a question: you said when they closed the turpentine industry, a bunch of Black people were unemployed.

	M:	Well, all the farming area: the turpentine, and the bean-pickers. B:	So what did they do for jobs?

	M:	They never had any.





	B:	And what year was that, about? Do you know?



	M:	Well, it was right after—well, about [19]46 or [19]47. Now, I may be wrong on that. But the Johnsons sold all of that land to Owens-Illinois, or National Container. I guess now, most of the property is owned by—

	S:	Plum Creek. Is it Plum Creek? M:	Probably. I don’t really know.

	B:	So that had a big impact on Hawthorne.



	M:	Oh yes, it did. Because we had seven grocery stores there on Main Street. And they all could survive because everybody was working. And Francis worked at the Bishops’ store, which is down there about where the furniture store is, Badcock’s, it’s a little wood building. And so, he worked there every Saturday. And said Mrs. Bishop let him eat anything he wanted, so we always ate a lot of bananas. [Laughter] Eating up the profit, but he only worked on Saturday. But he thought this was so funny: he was working one day, and this man that drank a lot was standing there. And the man that had come and brought groceries and had the groceries on his back carrying them home. And this old man said to Francis, “Look at that dang fool with all that groceries on his back, and I bet he ain’t got a drink in the house!” [Laughter]

	B:	So did those grocery stores have to close down when people didn’t have enough money to buy from them?

	M:	Yup. And too, 301 used to be Johnson Street. And of course, they moved— about, I guess, [19]65, they finished 301 where it is now. And ‘course, when they quit coming through town, that had a big effect, too. Of course, all those big





trucks coming down the main street were not—. Well, it was loud and always seemed crowded.

	B:	Well, you said that the Johnson house closed later in the [19]40s, and that was right before they tried to integrate the schools. Do you remember anything about that?

	M:	Well, we didn’t integrate schools until in the 60s. Yes. And we had a very peaceful integration, I think. I was always proud of Hawthorne. The first year that the high school was integrated, they sent five students from Lincoln High School.

	B:	The one in Gainesville?



	M:	Yeah, they used to bus the Black kids to Gainesville. The high school kids. So, in, I would say that was in [19]64 or [19]65 that they sent five students. But it went well.

	B:	And they sent them to Hawthorne High School?



	M:	Mhmm. And at that time, the high school was in one big building where you went from kindergarten through twelfth grade all in the same building. But, then when they built the new building in 1970, the one that’s there now, and they tore down this wonderful brick building.

	D:	Where was that located? That—?



	M:	Right on the corner up there of Lake or 69th Avenue and I don’t know what that street is.

	D:	Where the high school is now, it was on the same property?



	M:	No, it was down at this end, where those pods are. You know where Carlton’s house is? Well, it was up from there on that corner. This way.





	S:	Where the middle school kids are now. M:	But further up this way.

	B:	And let me just clarify: you said that most of the Black students went to Gainesville for school. They took buses all the way from Hawthorne to Gainesville every day?

	M:	Yeah.



	B:	And sent them to Lincoln. M:	Mmhm.

	B:	Okay. And then, I guess, did the younger kids go to Mebane, or—?



	M:	No, the younger kids went to Shell, which is over there—well, that used to be Brown Street, now I never have learned what the new streets are. But Shell. And then, when the integration started, they made the white kids go over to the Black school in Hawthorne.

	S:	How did that go?



	M:	It all went well.



	B:	You didn’t hear any complaints about people saying they didn’t want to go over to the Black school or anything like that?

	M:	Well, yeah, you heard it. And some of the teachers didn’t want to. In fact, Jeff McMeekin’s wife drove to Gainesville rather than teach at Shell.

	B:	Oh, okay. Just because it used to be the Black school? M:	Well, I don’t know.

	B:	We’ll have to talk to her huh?



	M:	But she drove to Gainesville for many years.





	B:	That was a long ride for those kids! That’s, I guess that took longer to get there than it does today. I guess today you can do it in about twenty minutes. But, must have been a little bit longer in the past.

	M:	No, we had good cars. [Laughter]



	B:	Because you can go sixty-five on it; and I can remember in my lifetime when interstates, you could only go fifty-five.

	M:	Well, that was during President Carter’s administration. He was going to save gas.

	S:	Oh okay.



	M:	Yeah, we could drive 70 before then. And then, he cut it to 55. D:	He also put solar panels on the White House.

	B:	Yeah, I was born in 1982, so it would’ve been after Carter. And then they changed it again, I don’t know how old I was; I must have been in middle school when they changed it.

	D:	Was there ever a movie theatre in Hawthorne?



	M:	Yeah, there was, in that funny little building next to Jane’s Hair Salon. Jack Grimes and his father, Mr. Paul Grimes, used to run movies there. I don’t know how often, and I never remember going but once. But we all used to go to the drive-in on Hawthorne Road in Gainesville. There was a big drive-in theatre there. So, people went there, and of course we went to the Florida Theatre, which—well, now it’s a bar, or a dance hall, something. What is it?

	S:	A billiards or pool hall or something? B:	Is it in Hawthorne?





	S:	No that’s on University Avenue in Gainesville. B:	Okay. Oh, I bet I know which one it is!

	S:	Super Cue or something like that. Yeah.



	M:	But at the time, that big building on the corner going West had not been built, because that man had to go to jail for bolita, selling bolita. So you’d line up clear around that corner, and come up University Avenue to go to the Florida Theatre. And on Sunday night it was always a line there to go to the movies.

	D:	And of course, the Primrose Inn across the street.



	M:	Yeah. And that was the best place to eat. Gosh, they could make the best squash soufflé I have ever tasted! And fresh rolls. Oh, they were wonderful!

	B:	You said that the man who owned the theatre had to go to jail for— M:	No, he didn’t. He owned that property.

	B:	Oh, okay. What did he have to go to jail for? M:	Number racket. They called it “bolita.”

	B:	Oh okay.



	M:	I don’t know.



B:   I wonder what he was number racketing for. Was it have been horse races, or—? M:   No, they drew these numbers, I think down in Cuba, didn’t they? I don’t know.

But they’d draw numbers, and like, if you picked thirteen, you might have hit— what they said, you hit bolita. So, you won money.

B:   Oh, okay. Because I’m thinking, in Spanish, “bolita” is like a small ball. So maybe it was something like roulette or something that they spun the thing and it landed in the black or the red sort of thing?





	M:	Probably. Anyhow, that was kind of interesting that that was all fenced off, a vacant lot.

	B:	And now there’s a theatre there.



	M:	Well the theatre was down from there. There was a bank that went in there. I don’t know what it is now. But it was a big building. But I tell you what, that street is either!

	D:	Since we were just kind of talking about the Primrose Inn, do you have memories of the chicken factory in Hawthorne?

	M:	Oh, yeah! But you know, that’s later dates. Yes, and people came there from everywhere. If you mentioned Hawthorne, “Oh, we know the chicken factory.” The man that opened the chicken factory in Hawthorne used to be the band teacher at the high school. He was the first band teacher, Ferris Johnson Jr. His band uniform, I guess he was a mascot there, so they gave me his band uniform. I had them cleaned, and we’ve got them up there on the wall. Mr. Dice.

	D:	Now, when you say you have them up there on the wall, you’re referring to— M:	At the museum, yeah. Thanks! [Laughter]

	D:	Can you talk about that a little bit, that experience of putting together that museum? Because I know you worked hard on that. You and Francis were just a huge part of that.

	M:	Well, somebody found out, I guess that was Jane Seagle, that we probably could get a grant for a museum, and that was going to help bring people off of 301 through town for business. So, that’s the way the grant was written, I understand. I’ve never seen the grant. But that it would encourage people to visit the museum





and visit Hawthorne. So we—Jane got Jerry Bell, which was Halbury Middleton’s grandson, wrote the grant for us. And we matched it with labor. And they moved this old AME church from over across 301 in back of the fried chicken factory to this lot on old Johnson Street. And the men really worked on restoring that. Ted Evans was the head man, but Dr. Henderson—who’s a retired dentist professor—here in his eighties, he's up there climbing those ladders and painting. And so many people helped with that. And I still think that we could get younger people interested, if we contacted them to help keep it alive and appreciated. But you’re going have to have somebody that sparks their interest.

	D:	But I know that you put in so many hours, and Francis put in so many hours, keeping it open, and just setting it up.

	M:	Yeah, well Francis did more than I did. But I helped all I could.



	S:	Mary, I’ve heard stories about how you cleaned those bricks. Could you tell us about how you cleaned those bricks?

	M:	Yeah, well, we tore down Spivey Store, which was between Anna K. Middleton Morgan’s house and the building that was the real estate office, formerly Hawthorne Library. And these were Campville brick. They were made in Campville. They were not real hard brick. I guess it must have been the sand or something. But they weren’t firm like the bricks that they used to use on the streets. We tore that down, and were trying to get the sand and cement off of them, and Francis said, “Well, let me show you how we used to do it.” And he took a piece of board about as big as my hand, and nailed coca-cola tops to it. And then, with the sharp edge facing up, and you just took that and rubbed it on





the brick, and it came off so nicely. And there’s one at the museum that he had made, but he had done that when he was a little boy, when Ferris Johnson had bought the old Hawthorne Bank building and opened a drugstore there. And here, Francis cleaned brick there, and that’s where he found out how to do it.

	B:	How long ago was it that y’all moved the church?



	M:	You know, I think, [19]95 or [19]96. Wasn’t it? I’m afraid to say. I think [19]96. B:	Well, in learning things about Hawthorne is that, a long time ago, everybody in

Hawthorne had at least two jobs if not more. Nobody had just one straight profession that that was all they did their whole life; it was very rare. And then, the second thing is that buildings are movable. Because I’ve never heard of a place where so many buildings got moved around.

	M:	Well, I don’t know that people had two jobs, really.



	B:	It sounds like people worked their farm at their house, you know, maybe picked beans, maybe ran the Ford dealer, was also the mayor. I guess people had more than one role—I guess they wore more than one hat, I should say.

	M:	Well, yeah. I guess they did.



	B:	Whereas you had a profession; you were a librarian for thirty years, right? M:	I worked there. Enjoyed it.

	B:	So, you must have been one of the people that that was where you went every single day, was that—?

	M:	I loved it, too. I really did. It was so fulfilling for me, because I felt like I had about died. [Laughter]

	B:	How did you come across getting to be a librarian?





	M:	Well, I had worked with keeping the library open, when we were down in Frank Watson’s insurance office. He and his wife checked out the books in the morning. Now, we just had a little deposit station there. And so, I and Mrs. Clifford Johnson and Ms. Watts would work in the afternoons.

	B:	And that was just something that you had extra time for at first, then you realized how much you liked it?

	M:	Well, no, I just kind of inherited it. Anyhow, when the bank wanted to buy that building, we moved across the street. Am I being redundant in this? We moved across the street to the Bates building, because that’s where Frank moved his insurance office. Then Jack Williams bought Frank’s insurance office. And he didn’t want the library deposit there, so we moved to the Women’s Club.

	B:	So you were a member of the Women’s Club M:	Yeah.

	B:	So, was that your connection, that you said, “Maybe we should ask the Women’s Club if we can move over there?”

	M:	No, Ms. Wadsworth was president. And Ms. Wadsworth had always bought a lot of books, read a lot, and loaned her books to everybody. She was very democratic, I will say that. Anyway, she was in charge of keeping—she got appointed, and was paid a dollar an hour, which was minimum wage. Six hours a week, to keep the library open on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. And when she was seventy, they forced her to retire. Well, at that time, I was her substitute. So, they hired me. That was in 1965.

	S:	So when you say you inherited, it was because you worked with Ms. Wadsworth.





	M:	Yeah. So, Beth Daney came to my house and asked me would I do it. And I said, “Sure.” So, I did. But when they didn’t want to integrate, we had to do something, so we moved over to that little hundred and fifty-six square foot building for two and a half years. And then, we got our three thousand square foot building. And we were open twelve hours a week to begin with. And then we finally got it to twenty hours, and then thirty hours. Is it forty now?

	S:	Forty-eight.



	M:	My gosh! Okay.



	S:	Seven days a week.



	B:	So, by the time you took over, or were really working at the library after Ms.



Wadsworth retired, you already knew you liked doing that work.



	M:	Oh, yeah! And besides, it was a challenge to me. I intended for it to be something. I mean, that’s just kind of my—something in me. Yeah. Especially if I doubts I can do it, I can do it. [Laughter]

	B:	And I guess you did meet with a challenge in your first two years, with that integration stuff.

	M:	Oh yeah, I did. A lot of times. But anyhow, it was fun. And it was always challenging to me that Gainesville, these people that weren’t any better-educated than I was, they’d say, “Well, what would your people read?” [Laughter]

	S:	Mary Moore, did you have a card catalogue? M:	No, I never had a card catalogue.

	B:	Your card catalogue was in your head, huh?





	M:	In my head. And luckily, I had a good memory. If I once handled that book, I could remember it. And a wonderful boss I had, Helen Clark, said, “Mary, always look in indexes. Catalogues aren’t always catalogues just like it should be.” And that helped me so much. And I was just so—you know, I would just know what was in a lot of books. Now I’m not bragging on myself, because I have a lot of things that I didn’t know. And I learned every day, and that was so interesting to me that I’d go home, and I would say, “Gosh, I just learned so many things today!”

	B:	So being in the library allowed you to learn something new every day.



	M:	Well, people think you sit around reading books. But, you don’t. [Laughter] Women’s Club members would say, “Mary, while you’re sitting down there, would you address these letters?” Sid Martin said, “Mary, while you’re sitting down there, would you send out some political flyers for me?” I said, “No! I don’t sit down there; we work!”

	S:	Mary you had kids coming from Shell Elementary for story hours. M:	Yeah.

	S:	Would you tell us about that?



	M:	Well, I wanted to get the circulation up so the county felt like they were spending their money wisely. So I started having the children from Shell School, which was first through sixth—no, it’s first through seventh, to begin with. Anyhow, each class would come one day a month. So, we were filled up all of the time.

	B:	Was that before or after integration? M:	This is after.





	B:	Oh, okay.



	M:	Well we were fully integrated before we ever moved in that building. Even in the little building we were. Because I had the classes coming down there, and the mayor came over and said, “You know I don’t like that.” And I said, “I wonder why?” That ended it, and they always came. And I always thought, “There’s not anybody big enough to stop me.” I’d just keep whistling in the graveyard, so to speak. [Laughter]

	B:	So how many children would you have for the story times, and what would you read?

	M:	Well twenty or thirty. Well, a lot of times, with the older children, I’d just do kind of book talks that would make them want to read. I always thought for a fifth and sixth grader, that C.S. Lewis’s books would hook almost any child. Now, it would be, what? Potter?

	B:	Harry Potter, right.



	D:	They still like C.S. Lewis.



	M:	Do they? I think most of them did like those. But no, we didn’t have a catalogue, until we—we never did have a catalogue. Finally, in about—was that about [19]86 that we got the computer?

	S:	I think that’s about right.



	M:	And they had put the catalogue on that. But anyway, it worked. It wasn’t always perfect. And I could call Gainesville if I couldn’t find it, but then I would always have to have, “Have you looked in this place? Have you looked there?” I said, “If I hadn’t already looked, I wouldn’t be calling you!”





	S:	Mary, do you remember any particular stories about the library? Anything that you want to tell us that’s interesting or funny about something that happened at the library? I just can’t miss this opportunity.

	M:	I don’t know, Memree.



	S:	Okay, well I put you on the spot.



	M:	Well, I know one time, that a man came in and said he wanted to see some aht.



And I thought for some reason that was some kind of animal. [Laughter] Oh, I was so embarrassed! He wanted to see some art. But why I thought—and I said, “What kind of animal is that?” And he said, “Well, whatever you paint.” Oh, I was so embarrassed! So embarrassed. Because, you know, I felt like my life was on the line. If I didn’t please everybody, you know I was going to get a bad reputation. So I worked at it. But of course, there were times I didn’t fully understand. But I will tell you this: a little boy was sitting there one day, and he had to have a certain picture. And he had been to the university library, he had attended PK Yonge, he’d been to their library. He had never been able to find this picture. Well, I knew—now I don’t even remember what the picture was, but I knew it was in the 900s. So I went a-back there, and I got it, and it was a picture about that big that he wanted. And he was so thrilled. But when he used the copying machine, he said, “Would I have to pay a whole dime for that?” Because it was just that big. I said, “Yeah.” He said, “I don’t think that’s right. It’s not even going to even cover the whole sheet of paper!”

	S:	Now Mary, I have to say, there are still people who come in, and they bring in their children, or their grandchildren, and say, “I used to come in here when I was





a child, and Mary Moore used to do story telling for us, Story Hour for us.” They have fond memories of the library when you were there.

	M:	I was in Cedar Key at an art show, and a big old boy came up, and he said, “Mrs.



Moore can you still sing?” [Laughter] And he wanted me to sing something, I don’t remember what. But I thought that was so funny! He was about eighteen, but he remembered something that we used to sing that he liked.

	B:	I’ve heard the library—I’ve been out and visited the director out in Archer, and then I’ve visited Memree in Hawthorne. And what I understand is that the library is sort of a hub for the community. So, a lot of people come, and kids are there all the time. Was that the same way, has it always been that way?

	M:	Yeah, pretty much. I’ve always—and I liked the kids, but I would not put up with them messing around in there. And eating or drinking, because older people resented it if the kids are tearing up the place. Because they think it’s theirs.

	B:	So you’d have older folks in there too.



	M:	Oh, yeah. The best people in the whole world, aren’t they Mem? They get to be just your friends. And you’d almost like Lucy in, sometimes. It used to be they’d come and confess to me about their child was pregnant or something, and wanting me to tell them what to do, or—oh, Lord. And you know, I didn’t know those things. [Laughter] [Whispers inaudibly apparently indicating the recorder.]

	B:	Oh that’s okay! You didn’t say anybody’s name! So how have you noticed the library has changed over the years?





	M:	Oh, well, computers have changed it completely. Hasn’t it, Memree? I mean, you know, I doubt—I don’t know, do you even do much reference work anymore? I guess you do for people that don’t have—.

S:  We do, but it’s different. It’s very different. We don’t use the reference books much anymore. We do a lot of reference, but it’s not the same as going and picking up a book. And I miss picking up the books.

B:   I suppose now you’ve got the Internet, which is a library in and of itself. M:  Yeah, that’s tru-

B:   So your library is a lot bigger just because of one box that you have in the library. But so, prior to the digital, the start of, you know, computers and things, what was the biggest change over the years?

	M:	Oh, I guess not—not being opinionated about what your collection is. That got to be a big thing with American Library Association. They would rather sue the whole world than have one disgusting book removed from the library.

	B:	So did they impose a law, or how did they do that?



M:  Yeah, it was almost a law. I mean, it was a law from our administrators. You cannot cull the books! They just—they want it, if one person wants to read a book, there must be ten more that want to read it. Yeah.

B:   So then, people would make requests as to which books they wanted?



	M:	Oh, yeah. They still do. Yeah, they still do that. Get on the list, because somebody saw me reading this here, and they say, “Oh, they’ve been on that list a long time!” Have you read it?

	B:	No, I haven’t.





	M:	Well, you’d understand it.



	S:	I’ll have to put it on reserve. [Laughter]



M:  It’s a maid. Two maids and one White woman, and her bridge club and friends, and how they—the Black people talk about who they worked for, and tell all the dirty secrets on them! [Laughter]

B:   Does that give you any insight into your own life?



	M:	Well, you laugh a lot, because, one funny thing in there, they’re having the bridge party, and the maid’s in the kitchen, and she hears them say that they have to have two bathrooms at the house. They cannot have the help using their bathroom, because you don’t know how many diseases you’re getting if they’re sitting on your commode. And that was a big thing! Some of them couldn’t afford to build a second bathroom. But, the wife usually got it, even if the husband said they couldn’t have it.

	B:	Well, was that the way it was in the Old South? Was there always a help bathroom and a normal bathroom.

	M:	Yeah. Yeah.



	B:	And was there a different set of dishes, or? M:	No.

B:   Everybody shared the same dishes, just different bathrooms.



	M:	Yeah, they even took some of the dishes home if they liked them. [Laughter] S:	Mary didn’t you and Francis have something to do with starting the Episcopal

Church in Hawthorne?





	M:	Yeah. I was Episcopalian, and one night at a Lions Club, or Legion, or some meeting, this priest that had Keystone and Waldo came. And somebody said, “Well, Mary Moore’s Episcopalian.” And he said, “Well, why don’t you have a church here?” So, he was real energetic. And we started it, and we had church over at the Legion Hall ‘til we bought that land. And we were lucky that we had one family that managed Bill Lindsay’s store, and every year when Mr. Lindsay gave bonuses, Mr. Spencer always encouraged him to give Hawthorne some money, the Episcopal Church. So, as long as they worked for Bill Lindsay, Mr. Lindsay gave us money every years, and we bought that land, I think, for three thousand dollars. And we built the church for five thousand dollars.

	S:	What year was that?



	M:	1956 we started, and then by [19]58, I think we had it completed and were holding services there.

	B:	And you said you were Episcopalian; are you not anymore? M:	Well, yeah. [Laughter]

	B:	Just not going to church as much?



	M:	Well, yes I do. My daughter comes and gets me and takes me, when I’ve been able to go. For six months I wasn’t able to go, but now I can get around with a walker.

	B:	Okay. Well, where do you go to church now? M:	In Hawthorne.

	B:	You go to the same church? M:	Yeah.





	B:	Oh, that’s nice! So how long have you been a member there? Since 1956? M:	[19]57. I guess we had the first service in December [19]56. Yeah.

	D:	So you’re one of the founding members of the church?



	M:	Yeah. And we’ve got some wonderful people now that have planted so many plants. And they started kind of putting memorial stones around. And there’s one for my husband, it says, “Francis R Moore, the first senior warden.” And do you know, it seems like the plants at his marker grows better than anybody’s? They kept telling me that, they said, “You wouldn’t believe it, how they grow!” But he would be thrilled, because he was a nice, peaceful man, and a good representative of what a Christian man should be—I think.

	B:	It sounds like he had it all. He was fun, and he was charismatic, and good- looking.

	M:	He was shy.



	B:	Was he? No! The way you’re describing him, it sounds like he was very outgoing.



	M:	He got to be after he started art. Before then, he didn’t really want to be with anybody but me and the children. And after he started doing art, and going to art shows, his whole personality seemed to change. He loved it, and people would say, “Well you know you don’t have the right perspective.” He’d just grin and say, “Well, when you paint it, you remember that.” [Laughter]

	S:	When did he start the art?



	M:	In [19]76. Probably first class that Kate taught was probably [19]75. But then, when he had a serious heart attack in February [19]76, he started painting those buildings, and Kate said, “Francis, I wouldn’t even paint those.” But he kept





painting them, and he loved putting the roofs yellow and green, I don’t know, however he saw the way they looked to him. Those tin buildings? Wasn’t like on my house; he got the roof a different color. So he painted almost everything like the Chamber of Commerce in Hawthorne. Do you remember in the news saying they were all the industry that he had remembered as a child?

	B:	Right. Wow. So have you ever received any awards, or honors, or held an office, or anything like that?

	M:	Well, I’ve gotten a few awards, but no I’ve never held any office. B:	But Mr. Francis did. He was mayor.

	M:	Yeah. No, I never was president or anything. No B:	Well, what awards did you receive?

	M:	Well, I don’t remember now, but I received some. B:	For being in different clubs and things like that? M:	Yeah.

	B:	How long have you been a member of the Women’s Club?



	M:	Well, I haven’t been now in several years, but I was from 1949 on ‘til probably 1980 or [19]90. I don’t know when I stopped going, but I didn’t have time to go. And then, I kind of didn’t want to work. So I didn’t join any. [Laughter]

	D:	If you had a wish for Hawthorne, or the Hawthorne area, what would that wish be, or what kind of vision—what would you like to see Hawthorne continue or become, or continue as, as you look into the next years? Do you have any thoughts about that?





	M:	Well, I’ve always said if I won the lottery—which I’m not likely to do since I never buy a ticket—but I’ve always thought that I would build a nice nursing home or assisted living home, because we would have good help that could work there. And there’s plenty of beautiful lands around that we could put it on. But I don’t guess that’s likely to happen, since I’m eighty-six, and now they won’t even let me drive. So. It’s awful. If I could just drive over to Fresh Market, or to the drugstore.

	B:	Who is that said you couldn’t drive? M:	My surgeon.

	B:	Oh okay.



	M:	Because I fall. And I’ve been operated on, but they say it takes these nerves a long time to rejuvenate.

	B:	Okay, yeah. So they think that’s something you’ll get to do again in the future? M:	Well, he didn’t promise me that! [Laughter]

	B:	But you remain hopeful that one day you’ll get to drive again.



	M:	Yes, but I don’t really see much chance of it. But I would like to see Hawthorne, just, if it’s going to grow, in an orderly—and not just to enhance somebody’s pocket. But, yes.

	S:	Do you have any words of advice that you’d like to pass on to future generations?

	M:	Work at what you enjoy doing. Don’t worry about the money. Because if you’re unhappy, there’s no point in having money. Is there? No, if you aren’t happy. And





I don’t think anybody can be happy unless they work. I just can’t imagine a life with nothing to do. Can you?

	B:	No, I think that’s true in your life because you volunteered so much. You can see that you’ve always wanted to give to the community.

	M:	Well, I was entertaining myself. [Laughter]



	S:	Oh, Mary, thank you so much. Is there anything else you want to add? M:	Did we cover what you wanted?

	B:	As long as we covered what you wanted, too. That’s what’s important. S:	Right, if there’s something else that you want to say.

	M:	Well, one thing I think was funny, which was nice, you had on there about how you groomed in the bath. But I think most people, in my time, they had to get up and go, they could bathe. But Mr. Bates had the barbershop. And Francis said you could go to the barbershop, get your hair cut, Mr. Bates would play the violin for you—that he made. And if you didn’t know how to miter wood, he’d teach you how. And all for a quarter. [Laughter] And once, Mr. Bates cut my little boy’s hair. When I went get him, he had shaved his head. Oh, I was so angry, I thought I would die. And he said, “Oh, I didn’t know that was your kid, I thought that was So-and-so’s kid.” Well, that the wrong side of the track, and that made me even madder! Well, I really told Mr. Bates off. The next day, I heard that Mr. Bates had had to go to the hospital. Oh, I thought, “My Lord, I’ve given him a heart attack!” But he just had an upset stomach, thank the Lord! [Laughter] I went down to apologize, because you know, I did get over it. It was funny, but what insulted me so, he thought my child would like—! [Laughter] And then, the World War II. I





think that, well, Francis was one of the first ones drafted. Although he was in Jacksonville, they drafted him from Alachua County. And he was at Fort Benning, where he said he really got good training—it’s the reason he survived—and shipped out to North Africa, and ended up clearing Berlin the day they decided whether the Americans were going in or the Russians. And so, he was over there three full years and one day, and thought he was going have to go to Japan, because then they were—but after that was settled, they let him out on point systems. And since he hadn’t been injured, and he wasn’t married, he had to wait in Germany three months before he could come get shipped home. And he said all the way on that ship, they played Glenn Miller’s music. And he just said that was so peaceful, to think that he was finally coming home to Hawthorne. And I used to try to get him to move back to Nashville, where I was from, because people seemed to be earning better livings. And anyhow, I thought that was what we ought to do. He said, “Mary Parks, when I was in Germany sleeping on that snow with those blankets over me, I swore if I ever got back to Hawthorne I’d never leave except for vacations. And the day you want to earn the living, then we can go where you want to. But I’m staying in Hawthorne.” [Laughter] And this was funny, I think Francis’ brother Allen was a good-looking boy, but wild. He drank more whiskey, had more girlfriends, and drove faster than anybody. And everybody loved Allen, they just loved him. Well, he got drafted, and they needed him so badly—he was a mechanic and worked for his daddy—that they sent him to New Zealand without sending him through Basic Training. So, while he was over there, he was head of the motor pools, keeping the stuff all running, and





enjoying all the nurses, and when he came back from overseas, they wouldn’t discharge him ‘til he went through Basic Training. So he had to go to Camp Blanding and go through Basic Training. And what’s so funny, this boy never did anything he didn’t want to do. He was just that kind, and his daddy spoiled him, and his mother couldn’t do anything with him; nobody I could, I don’t think. But everybody loved him because he had just the nerve to be. But for him to have to go through Basic Training after he’d been in the service a couple of years—I always thought that was funniest thing.

	B:	Very funny



	M:	Okay, I’ve talked myself hoarse. [Laughter]



	B:	I wanted to know what you were doing during the war, too, because you were in Jacksonville. Were you working in a war industry, or—?

	M:	No, I worked for Firestone Tire and Rubber Company. A job, again, that I inherited. I never applied for it. But the man that was manager asked me, “Would you come work for us?” I said, “I don’t know anything, debits and credits.” “Oh, you can do it.” And I was the first woman to ever handle that job. [Laughter]

	B:	Wow!



	S:	Impressive.



	B:	And your sister was working in Jacksonville too, right?



	M:	No, she was married, but she was not working. She had children.



	B:	Let me ask one more question: how did she end up going to Jacksonville in the first place. You parents died, and then?





	M:	Oh, well she went there before my parents died. Her husband was transferred there.

	B:	And can I ask how your parents died?



	M:	Well, yeah. My mother was forty-seven, and my daddy sixty-seven when I was born. And Mother died of a bad heart at sixty-two, and my daddy lived to be about eighty-five. And he was married three times and had twelve children by three wives.

	B:	Wow, so you have a big family.



	M:	Well, they were all grown when I was born. I’m the last one. B:	Oh, you’re the last of—

	M:	Well, after forty-seven and sixty-seven, time was running out! [Laughter] B:	Thank you so much!

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Anisha Dutt, spring 2017



	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, October 25, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019