AAHP 157; Presley; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 157 Bernice Presley African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Diamia Foster on January 16, 2011 42 minutes | 23 pages



Abstract: Bernice Daniels Presley was hired to teach in Lake City, Florida in 1963 after she finished her master’s degree in Mathematics from Florida A&M University. Schools in Columbia County were still segregated at that time, and she describes her experiences there and how Jim Crow affected her in her professional and her personal life. She describes participating in a sit-in demonstration in Tallahassee in some detail as well. Mrs. Presley also talks about her family history, which stems back to Georgia, and the hopes that her parents had for her and her siblings’ futures. She also offers some reflections on her hopes for the future, and some advice for younger generations.





[Keywords: African American History; Columbia County, Florida; Florida A&M University; Civil Rights Movement]

















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 157

Interviewee: Bernice Presley Interviewer: Diamia Foster Date: January 16, 2011



	F:	Hello, how are you doing today?



	P:	Oh I’m excellent and getting better. How are you? F:	I’m fine. May you please state your name?

	P:	I’d be delighted. My name is Bernice D. Presley. D for Daniels, that’s my maiden name. Bernice Daniels Presley.

	F:	Okay.And may you please state the school that you have attended?



	P:	Oh, I’ve attended several graduate schools. I received my bachelor’s degree from Florida A&M University. Also my master’s degree in mathematics from Florida A&M University. I have done extensive study at Atlanta University in Atlanta, Georgia. San Jose State College in San Jose, California. University of Kansas in Lawrence, Kansas. And I also took a course at University of Montevallo in Montevallo, Alabama. University of Florida in Gainesville, Florida. Florida State University in Tallahassee, Florida.

	F:	Wow. That is a lot of schools. P:	Yes.

	F:	And how did all that lead you to Columbia County? Like how did you get here with all those degrees? You sound like you could have ran a country.

	P:	Yes, well I was recruited here after I received my bachelor’s degree in mathematics, because there was a great demand for mathematics teachers. And they called for me in the university and “we need a math teacher,” and they sent me. But after I got here I had done these, I had attended these colleges after I started working here. Yes.





	F:	And what year did you come to Columbia County? P:	1963.

	F:	Okay, and what were some of the things going on back then? Because I know that was during the time of the civil rights movement, a lot of the segregation was going on.

	P:	Very much segregated then. I was employed in segregated schools, and if I want to make a comparison of those schools then and now we had sort of second hand—hand me down—materials, books, and all that. But you know, all in all, the students’ academic standards were excellent, because we taught them to create something out of nothing. We did not have to have the fancy lab equipment; we did not have that, the fancy books. Because we were able to, as I said, create something out of nothing. We made our own lab equipment. We, in other words, became inventors at an early age. Books, we did a lot of reading of magazines, newspapers, and also we developed our own books. We wrote books for children, elementary students, and we wrote books for high school students; the children did that. So we wrote our own books from our experiences.

	F:	Were there anything that you all went through or had a fight through, any struggles that you all faced for trying to push these Black students to do better and be better within their community knowing that the Whites didn’t want them to?

	P:	Well yeah we had a lot of discrimination, and one thing was the discrimination in salaries. We, the Black teachers, were paid much much less than the White teachers, and we were doing the same job. And the students faced discrimination





downtown. There were certain places that they couldn’t go downtown. I’ll tell you one thing: movie theaters, they had to sit in the balcony. They could not sit down on the floor with the others. Now sitting on the balcony wasn’t advantage because a lot of time you could see the pictures better, but they were placed in the balcony because they thought that that was the worst place for them. And the students also were experienced with water fountain, they could not, they had Colored water fountain and they had a White water fountain. They were also faced with other bathrooms. There were certain bathrooms they could not use; they had White and a Black. And things were just separated, but they were able to survive because they had god on their side. Had they not had their supported teachers and parents we would have lost a lot of those students because they had to struggle. Everything was a struggle. And they experienced being called a lot of names. You know some of them didn’t even know in certain situations their real names, because they were called the “n” word a lot. So a lot of them said “what? Is that really my name?” So we were faced with a lot of that, especially if they would go down, downtown Lake City, they were faced with a lot of that. But we had our church. That Black church helped to survive, it help us to survive, that’s where we always at, the Black church.

	F:	And what was some of those churches if you can remember any of those?



	P:	I know one was New Banta Baptists church, that was the church that I was a member of. This church was here, but it was just Mount Pisgah, it’s now New Mount Pisgah, and of course we had Olive Baptists church, and a lot of churches out in the country that I don’t recall.





	F:	With all that going through and the degrees that you received, what made you stay?

	P:	What made me stay here?



	F:	Stay in Columbia County, yes. P:	It’s my husband’s hometown. F:	Yes.

	P:	Uh-huh. That’s why I’m here.



	F:	Was there any jobs that he had here?



	P:	Yes, he had, he was employed here. That’s why I stayed. F:	And what did he do?

	P:	He was a teacher. In the Columbia County School— F:	Oh and what did he teach?

	P:	Drivers’ education and health. He also taught mathematics, but his degree is in driver’s education and health.

	F:	Okay, do you remember any of the experience that the children, or anything, any stories that the children would tell you? Things that they went through personally being that you said they didn’t know their own names and the stuff they went through. You remember any stories that really hit, like it the home like—?

	P:	Yeah the stories about fact that they were not allowed to do certain things that they wanted to do. Could not go to the park freely. When they would go to a doctor, they had to go to the Colored wing room. I don’t care how sick they were, they had to wait until they service all the White patients before they would get to them. And they just thought about different things, different opportunities. They





were hot on going to the movies. But, they would go to the movie, have to go up in the balcony, and look down there, look clean area for them to sit in—the Whites—and up there they might not even clean the balcony. Might not even clean it, if they clean it, it might be once a month. So that’s how they had to deal with it. They talked about a lot of that, and it’s been called all kind of names. Not being able to have good, new books. When they would receive a book, pages might be torn out. They might be seven names in there, and they were from the White school. So we complained about stuff like that.

	F:	And did you ever feel that your life was at risk?



	P:	Surely, when I participated in the sit-in demonstration. F:	And what sit-in was that?

	P:	Sit-in demonstration? F:	Yes ma’am.

	P:	Oh that was in Tallahassee. A group of students were asked to volunteer to participate in a sit-in demonstration. It was because we were not served at the lunch counters. So they went to the different colleges all over the south and asked for volunteers, and I volunteered from Florida A&M University. In volunteering we were told the risks that we were taking. We were told there’s a possibility that some of them might be killed, some of use might be spit on, some of use might be called names. They gave use many, many workshops on it so we were prepared for all that. So I did participate. Didn’t let my parents know it, cause I said “somebody’s got to do this. Somebody has to do it,” because we know that it was not right. And when you know things are not right, you have to





take a stand. You know? And then when you’re taking a stand you have to bring the Lord with you.

	F:	Yes ma’am.



	P:	So I brought the Lord with me. We would have prayer meetings, and we would pray before all the different sessions. So the day that we were supposed to sit in, there was about seven of us from Florida A&M University, and we were sitting all over the south at the same time. We had an instructor at Florida A&M University that was in charge of the workshop and everything prepare us for that. So we were instructed to go to Woolworth at a particular time. I don’t remember the time, because it was happening all over the south. All these volunteer college students, all of the south, same time, same date. So we were instructed to go down to a Woolworth; you want to hear the whole story?

	F:	Yes ma’am.



	P:	Okay, we were instructed to go down to Woolworth at a particular time, at a designated time. The seven of us along with our instructors we walked into Woolworth and we shopped around, we purchased items. They sold items to us, and then when our instructor gave us the signal we walked over to the counter and we sat down, and we were instructed not to sit in the secondary seats. We left one, two seats between us. We sat down, and as soon as we sat down those waiters who went in the back, they refused to serve us. So I guess they went in the back and made a phone call, but they had served us. We had bought—I forgot what item we purchased. And then not too long after that store was filled with people, White people, saying all kind of things, all kind of things to us. But





we had been instructed as to how long we were supposed to sit, so when our instructors gave us a nod we got up and we exit the out store in a line. We were called all kind of names. Some of us were spit on. We were spit on, and some of us were shoved, but we could not fight back because we had to sign a little card saying that we would be nonviolent. So when I boarded our vehicle and went back to the campus, about two weeks later the second group went down at the same time all over the southern part of the United States. And that group, they were arrested. They arrested that group, those group of students. So they had to spend the night in jail, but we were all prepared for that. They told us we could have spent the night in jail, but for some reason it sort of shocked the members of the police force. But, they were prepared for the next group, so the next group had to spend the night in jail. And things kept progressing. And then we got the right to sit anywhere and be served as a result of that.

	F:	Wow.



	P:	Yes. That was one time that I felt as if my life was in jeopardy because I knew—I did this to help others that would be coming along. Because somebody like Dr.

King, when I think of the risk that he took, he must have had the Lord on his side. Because we visited Selma, Alabama, we walked that route from Selma to Montgomery, or Montgomery to Selma, we walked on Route 80, and I hate to cry to see how deadly that looks for them to be walking. And when they went across that—is it Edmund Pettus Bridge?

	F:	Uh-huh.





	P:	That water is just muddy, muddy water, and the bridge is narrow. Some old ding back could have come and pushed them over. It was just dangerous, and that’s why I tell my students: you have to do good in school now, because you need to think of the struggle and the sacrifice that has been made so that these rights, or these things that you are experiencing, if they would only think how people risked their lives and how a lot of people died. So that should make you want to do the best that you can. Like you said, the matter of fact you at the University of Florida, someone paved that way for you, and it was not easy. When I sat at that counter, I knew that there’s a possibility that I might be shot at my back. I knew that, but I did it to make things better. And Fred Shuttlesworth, Martin Luther King, Ralph Abernathy, they put themselves up front, because somebody, see everybody’s not a leader so the ones who are not a leader they should encourage the others and support the others. See some of us are followers, they cannot lead, but I think that if everybody would bond together, just bond together, things would be much better. We need to know more about our history.

	F:	Yes, I agree.



	P:	We need to know more about that, and these parents need to start encouraging these children to read books about Black history, because they’re stripping them of that in their schools, they’re hiding their history. And I tell my students all the time “the more they hide it, the more they can control you.” Because if you don’t know your history, you can easily be controlled because you think that you’re nobody. In the school that I’m in now, at Richardson, about sixty five percent Black, and those students at the beginning of the year had low self-esteem





because they were told that they could not achieve. They had the lowest, they have the lowest FCAT grades in the county. They do have the lowest FCAT grades and the principle there last year told them that “you’re not academically strong enough to have a National Junior Honor Society.” They don’t have that on the campus, National Junior, because the principle told them. Never had a National Junior Honor Society on that campus, because he told them that “you are not achievers, you can never get up to that point where you’ll be National Junior Honor Society.” You know that crushed a child, that crushes a child when you tell them things like that. So we need parents, we need workshops for parents number one, and after we have the workshop for parents then that will help with the self-esteem of these children. Teachers cannot do it alone, we need help because it take a whole village to educate a child. You didn’t intend to have that whole sermon did you?

	F:	No that’s fine. It’s okay. Well going back to the sit-ins, like how was the police force and the enforcement back then? Especially with you all doing the sit-in and them not expecting that to happen. Like how did they react to you all, were anyone injured, hurt?

	P:	No, no one was hurt. No one was hurt. But I can tell you there are times when you might have just one or two policemen around. What they wanted to do was just say “policemen were there,” but it might not be properly covered. It might be one or two, because it seems that they’re saying “I don’t care if the n people are injured or not,” but I might have one or two so that they can say that it was covered by policemen, but it was not covered the way it should have been, unh-





uh, it should have. But now whenever you have a situation where they’re using the tear gas on people you have a lot of them, but if you have a sit-in demonstration, if you have a sit-in demonstration you need police protection; you don’t have it. You may have one or two there. That’s why we were told that it was a risk, you could risk your life, you might be killed or something like that. So we knew there would not be strong police support.

	F:	And did your parents know about the sit-ins? P:	No I said I didn’t tell my parents.

	F:	Okay, okay.



P:  No I didn’t tell them till after it was over. F:  Was this broadcasted on TV however? P:   Oh no, no. This was secret.

F:   Okay.



	P:	No, no, no. We had a person on each campus, and they coordinated it. No, no it was something that was not, see cause had they been told they would have prepared for it. This was unexpectedly done. We walked there. We go there to sit down. We wanted to prove the fact that we could not be served. No, had it been advertised then you would have had those people in the store when we got there, and you would have had all them on the stool and we couldn’t sit down. And then that would have been, they would have said “there’s no room.” They would have known. We had to do things like in the spur-of-the-moment. Unh-uh, no. See when we got there it was all empty, nobody was served, nobody was there. But as I said, had there been an announcement—you don’t announce anything like





that, then you would have had all ‘em every other two missing White people, they would have been occupying all of the fifteen seats or whatever around there. And then that’s what they would have said was “we would have served them, but there was no seats.”

	F:	Yeah, did word get back to your parents’ however, that yall did do the sit-ins? P:	Well I told my parents that is was over.

	F:	And how did they react?



	P:	They said “be careful, be careful next time.” [Laughter] F:	But they still supported you?

	P:	Yes, because what we did helped them, cause later on they could be served in different places. Later on they could go to different bathrooms. They would not have to develop a bladder infection trying to hold it from one town to another. See this, think about it, if you were traveling and you had to go to the potty, if you have a service station, the service station has a little dinky, dinky, dinky little bathroom around on the back. Never been clean, but you had to go there. And a lot of people rather than going into that they hold it until they can get somewhere in the lighter area where they can use it. Uh-huh, yeah.

	F:	And can you state that store again that you all sat in? P:	Can I do what?

	F:	State that store, the store that you all did the sit-in at. P:	Can I?

	F:	State it again.



	P:	Okay, it was in Tallahassee, Florida.





	F:	Yes.



	P:	At Woolworth.



	F:	Okay, and what kind of store is that?



	P:	Oh, it was just like a, it’s something like a Wal-Mart. F:	Okay.

	P:	Yeah, it was something like a Wal-Mart but it didn’t have any groceries. They used to call them, it was a five and ten cent store that was one thing. But Woolworth, which is like a, it’s something like a store where you can buy toiletries. Little stores, I’m trying to think of one like that now, but then they had a lunch counter where you can go over and get a lunch or something like that.

	F:	So like the gas stations.



	P:	Well, it didn’t have gas there.



	F:	Well sometimes the gas stations inside like they have like food, and then food and other stuff.

	P:	Uh-huh, yeah. I think it was something similar to a Walgreens. F:	Okay.

	P:	You could buy items like that, a Walgreens. And then Woolworth, you could also buy little items, like personal underwear or something like that, but they had a lunch counter there in all of those Woolworth. Yeah they had a little lunch counter there where you can go and eat food. But then after we got a right to eat there, they went all over the south and took the lunch counters out. They let us eat, they took them out, out of the stores of Woolworth; they took them out.

	F:	Did you all still go there?





	P:	Oh yeah we went there after we, see that was during the time that we got the right to do it, but they said “well since they got the right to do it, I’m going to make sure we don’t serve them.” That was, that’s what I felt was the thinking of it.

They moved all the lunch counters out of the places.



	F:	And what were some of the other schools that were participating? Some of the other students from other schools that you know of that possibly were participating at the same time too?

	P:	Okay this, there was this school in south, I think AT&T. F:	Okay.

	P:	It was just schools in the south, I know AT&T was one.



	F:	So it was only basically HBCUs, like students from HBCUs who were participating.

	P:	Yes, yes. But then we had Whites participate; there wasn’t any Whites on our campus participating at that particular time, but there was schools who had Whites participating. But it was just Florida A&M University, during that time I was at Florida A&M University. We didn’t have any White students then. So it was just all Blacks then. Yes.

	F:	And what was, if you can remember, the names of like the other ones, other students who were participating with you in the sit-in?

	P:	Oh, I don’t remember them. I don’t remember their names, cause that was in the early [19]60s. I know I had, it was a sister and her brother out of Fort Pierce. I think the last name was Broatsman, Barbara Broatsman. And her brother, can’t even think of his name, but I know Barbara was a good friend of mine that’s why I





can remember her, Barbara Broatsman, and her brother, I don’t remember his name.

F:   Okay.



P:   Yes.



	F:	Well since then have you done anything radical just like that to make a difference in the different counties that you’ve taught in, and that you’ve been in school in so far?

P:  Only thing was this, whenever I thought something was wrong I would speak out against it. Yes, that’s what I would do, I would speak out against it. And I’m very vocal.

F:   Uh-huh, I can see that. [Laughter]



	P:	Very vocal, uh-huh, yes. But I haven’t done anything other than being very vocal, yes.

	F:	And if you could think of any story that your parents probably have told you growing up, cause I know they were also growing up during the time of probably heavier segregation. Can you probably remember any of the stories that they told you growing up, things that they had to go through themselves, or probably first handed experiences that they saw that they know they didn’t want you all to go through as their children?

	P:	I’m trying to think. Well, I know my parents said that they would not want us to have to work in the cotton field the way that they did. They wanted a better life for us, they wanted all of us to get an education. My family came from Georgia, some part of Georgia, and they were, let’s see what they called it, I’m trying to





think what they called it, they had to, they lived on, can’t think of it I am losing the word now. It was when they lived on the same property that the person they worked for. They gave it a name but it lost me. But see they were, oh I almost thought of it. You know when, I don’t want to say plantation but it’s like a plantation, it was like when they, when the owner of that field they had a house and then they provide a house for their workers.

	F:	I know what you’re talking about but I can’t think of the word also.



	P:	Yes, okay now, my parents lived in a situation like that, where they lived and they provided this home so they could work for this particular White guy. So he didn’t want us to do that, and my dad always said that “I don’t want my children to work in a White man’s kitchen.” He always said that; White man’s kitchen. So he said “I want all of you to get an education.” Sometimes when I would come home doing vacation break from college and we needed money so bad we would have to get a job, we could not let our daddy know it, because he didn’t want us to work in a White man’s kitchen. He said that’s no place for us, because he did it so long. So sometime we would hide our job to make money, because that’s what he said he definitely not wanted. But then we didn’t have enough, we needed the extra money, but he just didn’t want any children to be like a servant or a slave for the White man. So that’s what he said, “I want you to get the highest education that you possibly can get.”

	F:	And what did your mom do? Did she have any jobs or anything—



	P:	No. My mother, my mother had thirteen children. She didn’t have time to do anything but be just a house wife.





	F:	And what did your siblings grow up to be? Did they also do any sit-ins or join any organizations?

	P:	No, I think I’m the only one who. I had once a sister who’s a member of SCLC, Southern Christian Leadership Conference, and she goes to a lot of those conventions. And of course all of us are members of the NAACP, yeah.

	F:	So were you the oldest, middle? P:	I’m number nine.

	F:	Okay, that’s cool, so the oldest. [Laughter] P:	Number nine in a family of thirteen.

	F:	Okay, so being close to the oldest, or being number nine, how was it? You had younger and you had older siblings, how was that growing up for all of you all, and seeing your mother and father?

	P:	We were not all at home together because of the way our ages were spaced, but it’s a good experience to be from a large family. And there’s eleven of us now, and from a large family anything that you need you know who to call on for that. You always have support. So it was just great in a large family. And sometime I think, “How did my mother do it?” Cause I only have three, and I know I worry about the three. I just can’t see how my mother survived, we lived with thirteen but one died at birth. How did she survive having twelve people to worry about? But as I said we were not all there at the same time. By the time some of us were born, some of the others were gone, so we were never there all twelve of us at the same time. But it was just a joyous thing. There were a lot of things that we did not have, but we had love; we did. They provided a lot of love for us, and we





shared a lot. We learned how to share. We learned how to love people, because that’s what we always had—love, togetherness—and we’re a closely knitted family. We’re still closely knitted. I have a sister in Tallahassee, whenever I have something to do here, she’s here to support me. When she has something to do in Tally I’m there to support her. We’re the closest one in terms of mileage, and that’s the way it is with my sisters and brothers in New York. They’re there supporting each other. So it was good growing up in a big family.

	F:	And do you still teach here in Columbia County? P:	At Richardson Middle School.

	F:	And do you think that because of you growing up in a big family and all the love and the things that that you experience, do you think that’s a big part of why you care so much for the students here at Richardson?

	P:	Yes, it has a lot to do with it, and I just know the need; I know what it took for me to survive. And I want a better life for them, because I see so many things, so many opportunities for the children now, that I could not take advantage of. I want them to be able to explore the world, to be able to take advantage, just be able to be successful. Always remember, whatever you want to do you can do it. Whatever you want to be you can be it. There’s so much support out here, you just have to want it. In other words, you have to follow what your parents say, follow what your teachers say, and you will accomplish that. So I think being from a big family has a lot to do with how much I care for others, because I received so much care, so much love and I automatically gave it. I retired June 30, 2010, I retired from the school system.





	F:	Oh that’s recent.



	P:	Just retired.



	F:	Yeah. [Laughter]



	P:	I stay retired one month, and I was recruited to come back and work with students, by parents, students, and the principle that was residing. They recruited me to come back to help build this school, Richardson; which was so much in need. So I did it. So I did retire recently.

	F:	I know you were saying about the workshops, where we should have workshops for parents to teach the younger kids—my generation—about our history so we know where we’re going, we cannot be controlled. But do you think that that could happen? That we can get to a point where the generation coming possibly after me, or now, we can get to learn more about our history and then grow to greater length and go further and possibly come back to our communities and create jobs and do great things?

	P:	I think you can do that. You’ve just got to believe in yourself, and we’ve got to encourage you to believe in yourself. And we cannot depend on the school to do it, because we have teachers that will just draw in their salaries. They don’t care anything about the success of African American students, they don’t. They don’t, because I look at the ones where I’m working now, how they have crippled so many students but they still out there. I’m just so sad for the students, I really am. I think if just the few of us that are left—few African American teachers—if they can just, along with their parents now—we can’t do it alone because their parents were their first teachers, in fact we gotta change the attitude of those parents. If





parents would come on board and they would work with us as partners not as adversaries—while I say us the teachers who were there not drawing their salaries only, they could work with us—we’ll see such a difference. Because, see, African American children were born smart. It’s in their blood to be smart. Because like the pyramid, the sphinx, all that was developed. Slaves helped to lay out the White house and everything. And just thinking about African American children, if I would just get a lot of stuff that I would throw away and put it in the middle of the floor and said to some African American children, “build something,” and I walk away and come back in about ten or fifteen minutes, they’ll put it together. Born smart, but you got to have, they got to hear a lot of: “You’re someone special; You’re outstanding dignitary; You can do it; You are our future; You are our mathematician; You are our inventors; You are our doctors.” They got to hear more of that. But they hear: “You’re not going to be anything; You’re not going to be anything, might as well give up; You’re nothing.” And parents got to, they got to change, because I’ve heard parents really use a lot of profanities with their child. “You’re not going to be anything, just like your daddy.” I’ve heard parents tell the children that. I sure have. So it’s an attitude sort of thing. We got to start when that child enter kindergarten. “You are my next president. You are a senator,” they got to start hearing that rather than “you cannot build anything.” I tell those students, I say “we have a president, President Barack Obama. That tells you, you can be a president too.” I say “he’s president.” I say “anything that you can, that you see that a person is doing you can do it and you can do it better.” And I tell my students at the beginning of the year what I





want to do is produce a scientist that is smarter than I am. I said “I don’t want to produce somebody as smart as I am, I want you to be smarter.” I said “that’s what I want you to be at the end of the year; smarter than I am.” And I think they have accomplished my goal. I say “I want you to challenge me! Bring some questions here that you think that I cannot answer. Teach me, as I’m thirsty for knowledge.” I say “if you come here to bring something that I cannot answer that mean you’re motivated to learn. Teach me because I don’t know everything.” It’s not embarrassing to me if a student knows something I don’t know. Honey you’re motivated. You’re a genius. You’re someone special. You’re a dignitary. That’s right.

	F:	So have you been awarded in teacher honoraries or anything since you’ve retired, or before you retired any awards that you received?

	P:	Well, see I am the type person that I don’t like the spotlight on me; I don’t. Because they always have this teacher of the year thing, I don’t like that, everybody’s a teacher of the year. Yeah, but I was nominated for teacher of the year and I declined. I said “everybody’s a teacher of the year.” But now I did, they did sneak an award up on me one time. [Laughter] And they know, most people know how I feel, so I did get two awards that I was not aware of until it happened. One was the Governor’s Point of Light Award. You heard about that?

	F:	No ma’am.



	P:	Yeah I was honored by Governor Bush. F:	Okay.





	P:	Yes, and I went up there to the governor’s mansion and all that. I was honored there.

	F:	Ah!



	P:	And that was in about, I think, 1993, or 1990. No, no, 2003 excuse me. F:	That’s fine.

	P:	Yes 2003, or 2004 I was honored. And the other thing that I had Ida S. Baker award. I was nominated for that. I had to go up Tallahassee for that. When I received the Ida S. Baker I was the first teacher in the state of Florida who’s ever received that award. That award had always been given to an administrator, like for college, a principle. But I was the first teacher to have gotten that award. So when I got that award then there were other teachers, and it was I broke the ice for other teachers, yeah. So those are two things that I received and I did not know that I was going to get them. They sort of hid it from me, because otherwise I would have declined.

	F:	[Laughter]



	P:	Yes.



	F:	And have you seven that did the sit-in in 1966, were you all yet recognized to this day, or given any honoraries for what you did in paving the way for other African Americans to be able to sit in that restaurant?

	P:	Oh no they didn’t say anything, they said “good job.” No, we were not given any kind of recognition for that.

	F:	Wow.





	P:	I think a few years ago a lady told me she was writing a book. So she contacted me here in Lake City and she wanted to know my full name because she was writing a book about that. She was one of the sit-in, one of the ones that participated.

	F:	Along with you correct? P:	Yes.

	F:	Okay.



	P:	It was seven of us for the first time, and seven for the second time, so fourteen.



She knew who they were, but she just contacted me for my name. I think she said she’s going to write a book.

	F:	So that will be the first document of what you all did during that time, right? P:	Yes, because I don’t even know the date.

	F:	Okay.



	P:	I don’t even know the date. But I know it was by either [19]60 or [19]61, I want to say about [19]60. Cause that’s when I was at Florida A&M.

	F:	Okay, okay. Well that you Mrs. Presley for your time, and just allowing me to interview you and just give me a little piece of your history.

[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Jennifer Romero, January 13, 2016 Audit-edited by:	Juanita Duque, November 6, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 19, 2019