AAHP 081; Henderson, Jones, and Henderson; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 081 Carnell Henderson, Henry W. Jones, and Jettie Henderson African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Anna Brodrecht and Memree Stuart on June 8, 2010 2 hours, 34 minutes | 85 pages



Abstract: This interview was conducted in collaboration with the Hawthorne branch of the Alachua County Library. Rev. Carnell Henderson and his wife Jettie lived in an area outside of Hawthorne, Florida known as Corn Crossing, until at the age of about nineteen years they moved to Hawthorne proper. Henry W. Jones was raised in Hawthorne itself, and lived for a time in Campfield, Florida. The two men, who have known each other for most of their lives, are treated as the primary focus of the interview, though Mrs. Henderson speaks up periodically throughout, and becomes a more central narrator toward the end of the interview. The men relate a lot of their family history, including some reflections on Chester Shell, for whom the Black High School in Hawthorne was named. They talk at considerable length about Hawthorne and the surrounding area in the early 20th century, including the experience of living under Jim Crow segregation, and labor conditions for migrant farmworkers, and in pulpwood logging camps. They also discuss a number of people and buildings related to Hawthorne history specifically, and some of the traditions to be found there such as the annual Homecoming. Rev. Henderson also relates his love of, and adeptness at, fishing. Mrs. Henderson relates her wartime experience on the homefront, as well as her experiences working at Tacachale Developmental Disability Center and the process of racial integration there. Mrs. Henderson also describes some of her world travel, including going to Buenos Aires and to Australia. The interview closes with some reflections on religion and current social problems.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Segregation]



















For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 081

Interviewee: Carnell Henderson, Henry W. Jones, and Jettie Henderson Interviewer: Anna Brodrecht and Memree Stuart

Date: June 8, 2010



B:  Good afternoon, my name is Anna Brodrecht, and I’m with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program from the University of Florida. The date is June 8th, and we’re in the Hawthorne Branch of the Alachua County Library District.

S:  My name is Memree Stuart. I’m the Hawthorne Branch manager. C:   My name is Carnell Clarence Henderson, in Hawthorne, Florida.

	H:	And I’m Henry W. Jones, and I was reared around Hawthorne. And I’m delighted to be here today.

	B:	Would you ladies like to introduce yourselves on the tape? You don’t have to if you don’t want to. Okay.

JH:  Well, I can.



	S:	Okay, go ahead.



	JH:	Right here?



	B:	Yup, you can just say it out loud.



	JH:	Okay. I’m Jettie Henderson, the wife of Rev. Carnell Henderson.



	S:	So, we’re going to start today with: where and when were you born?



	CH:	I was born December the 2nd, 1926. And it was out in the country, which was still called Hawthorne Community, that was a name of the big town called Corn Crossing. That’s about approximately five miles from here.

	B:	And Corn Crossing doesn’t exist anymore, does it? Is it still there?



	CH:	Corn Crossing exist, but it’s nothing at Corn Crossing anymore. [Laughter] And now from way back, the train go right by our house, and there’s a big lake that we’ll do swimming and fishing in. Where you come to that about the food, we had





plenty of food to eat; ‘coon, opossum, and you name it. Squirrels, gophers. So, we were called out in the country, then we moved into Hawthorne. That was in the later years.

B:   Okay. What year was it that you moved to Hawthorne?



	CH:	Hawthorne, maybe my wife maybe can answer. Approximately what? When we moved to Hawthorne? And we stayed across town in the building Oke my brother had.

	S:	Were you a child?



	CH:	Oh, no. We were grown.



	JH:	We lived there until we moved. Nineteen years old.



	B:	So you moved to Hawthorne when you were nineteen. CH:	Beg your pardon?

	B:	You moved to Hawthorne when you were nineteen years old. CH:	I imagine that’s about it. [Laughter]

	B:	And would you like to share?



	J:	Some sixty years ago, I—through unfortunate circumstances I moved to Hawthorne, but they turned out to be beautiful because of the people I met. My uncle and aunt reared me, and I met people like the Hendersons, the Stitts, the Nelsons, the Iveys—just to name a few. And they gave me some good background in how to live and get on with other people. So consequently, I’m very happy, and I salute Hawthorne—the community of Hawthorne.

	B:	And so, what year were you born?





	J:	[Clears throat] [Laughter] Seriously, I’ll let you figure it out. I was born one year exactly behind the birth of Dr. King.

	B:	And were you born in Florida?



	J:	I was born in St. Petersburg, I’m sorry! I was born in St. Petersburg, and through these circumstances I moved to Hawthorne. And for a while, I lived in the beautiful city of Campfield. I don’t even know if it exist anymore. Then I stayed around here until I was about eighteen; they drafted me into the Service when I was nineteen. I spent two years in the Korean conflict, and from there on I didn’t get a chance to come back to Hawthorne—just for short term to see my mother- in-law. I married a young lady from Hawthorne, Irma Purdy, and we moved to Jacksonville, and then from there to St.Pete, where I taught for thirty years. And she passed away in [19]99 and I moved back to Hawthorne to bury her, and got all the land and everything straightened out. Then I moved back to St. Pete for a while. And for some reason, I’m right back in Alachua County again! Marion County. And I married another young lady, Peaches, who is Elvira Thomas.

She’s out of Rochester, and we’ve been married five years. And we get on very well, I think. [Laughter] We do very well. But, we have a good relationship. And I met Rev. Henderson when I was about seven years old; he and his brothers were a bit older, and they brought me and got me started in Sunday school at Galilee Baptist Church. And I met quite a few interesting people there, Chester Shell and people like that, who were very responsive to my needs.

	B:	So, I’m curious about the circumstances that brought you to Hawthorne, because everybody’s got a story. Are you happy to share that?





	J:	I might give away some people and it might not be so pretty. B:	Okay. Do you care to talk about Mr. Shell?

	J:	He happened to be an uncle of mine by marriage. My daddy’s brother married his sister. So, consequently, I was a nephew. And at Galilee, he was the man. He made sure you walked the right trail, and we gave him the greatest of respect, but he was a very humble person. And Rev. Henderson’s dad was an outstanding person in the church—very quiet. I think he was the treasurer there for more than fifty years at Galilee Baptist Church. And we had one of the stronger, if you will, Black churches in the area, I think. And I got quite of my experiences in life from people like this. When I was around for about twenty years. Constantly.

	S:	Rev. Henderson, do you have any children?



	CH:	Five. Only, the oldest son was killed in a car wreck, and that leave—we have three boys. One pastor in San Diego, he’s been there for many years. My wife would know how many years that was he’s been out there. And then we have two here, and have one in Massachusetts. California, Massachusetts, and Florida.

	S:	Wow. They didn’t stay in Hawthorne.



	CH:	Well, they stayed, they were out in the country, and then on into Hawthorne. S:	What about you, Rev. Jones? Do you have any children?

	J:	I have three children: a boy between two girls, and my oldest daughter lives in Atlanta, and my youngest one lives in Ocala, and I have a son in Ocala who works with the school board.





	S:	And what are their names?



	J:	The older one is Eleanor Joyce; and the son is—naturally, he would be Henry, but he doesn’t want to be called “Henry”—Gerald; and the youngest one is Shirette. She’s an RN at Marion Community in Ocala. I think I’m right.

	S:	And Rev. Henderson, what are your children’s names?



	CH:	Oscar is the youngest one. And then we have Raja; both of those are here in Hawthorne. And I have Steven that’s in San Diego. And Ralph, Massachusetts. I believe I’m right, I may be mistaken. Age has done caught up with me. Is that right, now? She agree with that.

	B:	[Laughter] Okay, then that must be right. Well, I know it’s been a long time since you lived in Corn Crossing. But could you tell us what it was like to grow up there?

	CH:	Corn Crossing? We just loved Corn Crossing, staying there. And it was very interesting, you know, we’d hear the—“Here come the choo-choo! Here come the choo-choo!” See, there was the home here, and here’s a railroad—no, a regular road for the cars; wasn’t no pavement, now. And then, cross over the railroad, then that where we had the lake, there. And it was such an interesting thing when we had a choo-choo coming; it wasn’t like they going now. It was going at a pretty good pace. Before it get there, you have whatever they call that, the brakes, it be slowing it down. “Wonder why they so—?” Well, I found out, what we called back then hobos—and I guess they would slow it down for them. Now, that’s my opinion. So, when they get by the house, they can get off, and Momma—look, Momma just giving them all our food in there! Momma kept plenty





food for hobos or whoever came by was hungry. And well, leave some for the preacher that day. We be looking, and they eat first, and look like they going to eat all of it. And leave the chicken foot; that’s all we got. So. But we always relied on that other: ‘coon, opossum and fish. And I became a fishing guide down through the years, and I just love fishing. And the sports I love: basketball.

Should also mention basketball; that just came to me when I mentioned that, I may call on it later on. But, we enjoyed basketball so much until we bought our own basketball, and we call it—in our opinion—was the greatest coach in the whole world. And we had—now, that’s Henderson, now—and others. They say, “Y’all had the best basketball team in the whole state of Florida.” “Why you say that?” Well, I say it because it’s nothing but a fact that our—my number was zero. Many places I go to now, “Aren’t you zero?” See, zero mean—now, and another thing: I was the littlest thing. Smallest, and I was at—that been maybe this last year; they still got the big store there. They had the people to hush you want them to meet. Say, “The fellow that was the littlest on the team, and used to come over to Lincoln and just tear us up,” said, “Now, he was dunking them balls way back there like a squirrel! He going up, and when they looked, the ball, see them big ones stand up, go up there, and he’s going run under they legs, and the ball coming down.” Now this one—well, the gentleman’ll bring out something on that for you about what I forgot about: how we beat everything in the county.

Now, what they call a district; I believe they called it at that time. Was it a district? That include, like, St. Augustine, Palatka, and Daytona, and all them big fellows. And we went over there, and tore them up. What the next? The next is to go to





the states; they beat everything local, and then the state, went to the state. And if I’m not mistaken—like I’m missing something—I believe, wasn’t it one point?

	J:	One point.



	CH:	One point. This team, I believe they was from Tampa. Anyway, they beat us by one point. Then Rev. Jones was there from St. Petersburg—wasn’t them from Tampa? And he knew these two boys that had been out of school, and they only beat us with one point?

	J:	But they were grown men playing a bunch of kids!



	CH:	And then, they didn’t have rules like they have now. And they would not let us replay them. And for them to beat us only by—? So, that’s why—Ulysses, that was the man’ name over there—say, “Just one point?” They had the best team in the whole state of Florida, but they wasn’t going to let no little old country team get that title. You know, a little of it come to me; but it was a whole lot to that. And some of them, “Well, why you say you have best?” “Well, I’m dealing with fact: we beat everything else down there, and them grown boys that wasn’t even no students, and they come playing.” “And you all, you was better than they was,” because they wouldn’t let us replay them, and they got the title that year.

	J:	He always wanted to say that, so he got the chance to say it! CH:	Well, it just come to me. I forget!

	B:	You have such vivid memories; it must’ve been a very important part of your life. J:	He speaking about 1946!

	CH:	A little thing that come to me on and off. Different ones question me about it.





	J:	They were just amazing. The Lakers would have had to back off of these guys! [Laughter]

	B:	And who was your coach? CH:	Prof. Green.

	J:	James Green. James R. Green. He was also the principal and the coach. This is the kind of situation we find ourselves in, in that day.

	B:	What do you mean by that?



	J:	Well, I went to the school across the street and got their books in 1948. I was a senior, and we went and got the books from the other school and brought them back over. This is the kind of situation we find ourselves in. But consequently, we made it.

	B:	What other school? Was it a White school? And then you had to go get the books from the White school and bring them over?

	J:	Well, they happened to be White.



	B:	Okay. Because this was back in the days of segregation, and educational segregation, and segregation of a lot of things, right?

	J:	Well, segregation to you might mean different from what it means to me. B:	Well, I want to know what it means to you.

	J:	Well, I might be better off to just leave that where—table that one.



	B:	No, please talk about it. And I’ll tell you why: because at UF, we get a lot of teachers and schools in Lake County, and Alachua County, and Marion County, that call and they say they don’t know how to teach the civil rights era, and the segregation days, because they’re White teachers. And they don’t know how to





speak about that from both perspectives. And that perspective is very often left out, but it’s very important. And that’s part of the project that I’m working on, is to record those perspectives so that teachers can teach those in classes. So, we would love to hear your perspective on that.

	J:	Lest I be inferior with speaking: in 1953, I came out of the Korean conflict, and we applied—a friend of mine, Wesley Jenkins Jr., who has passed on now—we applied to the University of Florida through one of his sisters who was a teacher. And we were asked to go to Florida A&M University, and which we did do. And eventually, he went on to be a contractor in West Palm Beach. And they hired me out of A&M to teach in St. Petersburg at Gibbs High School. That’s where I eventually did the thirty years with the school board of Pinellas County. So, it all turned out good anyway. And I don’t hold any animosity or anything against anybody. It was just that time of the year. It was just that time. And America has been constantly getting better. Some of the finest people I ever met were right here in Hawthorne, and they were people who happened to be White. I could get any favor I wanted from Sid Martin or his sister, who ran the store down the street. I worked for them. When I went to A&M, she sent a note with me to her brother so I would have a job to compensate me. So, I don’t have any real hangups with the people that I met in Hawthorne. They were all, they all—now, everybody got some hangups, and I got some, too; but it turned out real well.

	B:	Well, did the situation—not people, specifically, but just the situation of segregation, and separation—did that ever frustrate you?





	J:	Yes. At night, I would walk from the basketball game home about three miles out in the country on 20—what is that, 26 or 20? Nevertheless, I would walk out there, and I was always afraid of what might happen to me from the Klan. So, I would never let a car come up to me at night. If I was on the highway and I saw a car coming, I quickly went to the fence, stood—. Hid myself till the car went by.

Unless I was with somebody. Because I had this fear of what the Klan might do.



	B:	Because I’ve asked another person in Hawthorne whether or not the Klan was big in Hawthorne, and they said it didn’t exist.

	J:	I’m not so sure. I’m not so sure of that. The Klan is a very secretive organization, from what I gather. And I’m not so sure whether—but I always had this feeling within me, that, “Hey, you better get over there and—!” So, here I am today, eighty years old!

	B:	Well, I think whether or not the Klan was physically here, it was emotionally here.



It was still present whether or not there were people in it or not.



	J:	Yes. Yes, right.



	B:	So was fear a big part of your life growing up?



	J:	To some extent. Now, I always was kind of brave. I’d take some big chances. I get in a boat with Rev. Henderson. And the boat leaking! [Laughter]

	CH:	We had a fire that burn a hole in the bottom of the boat, it was so cold.



	J:	We had a heater in our boat. We looked, and the front end of the boat was on fire from the heater we put in it! Going back a few years, the Browns, Bob Brown, had a—I was just asking Rev. Henderson if he owned the boat basin down at Lochloosa. And everybody of color kept their boats there, and some other people





too. And you didn’t have to ask or pay nothing; you just go and get your boat. Then you bring it back. But I don’t think that would work today. I don’t think it would! But we’ve had an awful good time together, fishing and preaching, and just family. I’ve eaten quite a few meals there, see? [Laughter] Yeah. Thank you, Sister Henderson.

	S:	Rev. Henderson, where were you a boat guide, a fishing guide?



	CH:	Even until recently, we had what you kind of call an outreach ministry, that different times they have a gathering, and they have different Biblical questions and what have you. And then I can’t read very much, but I make notice of things that I can explain part of the answers. And I’ve forgotten this White lady that started with us not too long ago. We found out that outreach gave me over

$15,000 boat, and that was a Father’s Day present from way last year. And only had it on the lake only four times. And my White friend in Gainesville come by, “I’m going give you some decent poles to fish with!” I told him, “I ain’t never bought a pole in about twenty years.” And some of them break a pole, and when I see it again, it have maybe three different parts to it. I say “I’m going by the Bible.” “Where that in the Bible?” I say, “Jesus say, give up the fragment mentioned on that.” [inaudible 22:56] overdo it sometimes. And so, they show— different ones from up North didn’t know how to fish down here in the fresh water, what they call freelining and what have you. And this one that moved last year came down, one come every year with, go with Deacon Nichols; this one brought his own boat. Say, “We don’t want but two in each boat. I want you to get in the boat with him, you’re the one what just came down.” And I kept at him





about them bonnets and what have you; we fish differently, and arranging for the fishing. “Oh, I can catch them with these poles here.” And so, I just kept catching the bream, catching them. He wasn’t—“You know, I’d better—.” I say, “Well, come on, now, and change up. I’ll change yours up.” He said, “No, I’ll change it up.” And he still want to use his pole. That didn’t work. So after a while, “No, I’ll let you”—I say, “No, you take this pole what I’m catching all these fish, and I’ll get my secondary pole.” And he took that pole, wasn’t but a short while, he was catching about two to my one. [Laughter] And so, from one to the other, they love coming by after my [inaudible 24:10] take me fishing with them, and if not, they get out and draw out that diagram, tell them where they can go and look for different baits. But we been enjoying it very much from way back up until now. I love—well, I don’t care nothing but a very little television I look at, and people surprised by—“Did you see the game?” I say, “I don’t look at it.” May look at four or five minutes, but very little television; my eyes start running water, and I rather that time I do a little reading and make notes, and then I can get things and put on to explain about the Bible without me going to it, I can tell some of them where to find it, or either I’ll write it out and send it to them.

	S:	When did you start being a fishing guide?



	CH:	Oh, that was way on after moving to Hawthorne on different ones Rev. Jones and I know. And it follows different places, and if the fish done--they say, “Well, how can you tell that’s a bed?” “Well, got to look, teeny cut-up things, whether they in the bed or not.” I say, “If they in the bed, all you got to do get in there and wake ‘em up!” [Laughter] They come, “You woke ‘em up yet?” And where they





mess us up sometimes, them old big kickers where they just start coming in, they crank them up. See, when we come near them where we can smell them a little bit, then we do a little bit of easing in there, paddling, and what have you. But they some of them, they do bad, but they think they doing good. So it was way after coming to Hawthorne I became somewhat of a fishing guide. And even when John, going back to Chester Shell, instilled so much in, not just in me but others as well. Chester Shell, and they heading the Boy Scouts. We used to, they’d take us way over to somewhere near Jacksonville, and they had me as a, what you call that?

	J:	Scout master?



	CH:	Well, assistant scout master, but to look out for those that swimming. B:	A lifeguard.

	CH:	Yeah, lifeguard. And then, many time, we go out in the woods with the Boy Scouts, and wasn’t like it is now; you can go anywhere out there, and there big, fat—they don’t have the, we’d be looking for hogs at that time, the fat ones? And you talking about something good? We’ll stay on out there after killing them, dress them, and then have different—could cook anything, and pour it over or what have you, stay out there all night. Or way up in the nights. And that was a whole lot of joy out of that. And when it come to another special person, Professor Caffey, he was a special—along with Professor Green that we mentioned, Professor Caffey could look at a person, see things instilled within that person. He got us, with others following me, “Instead of we taking a dinner break, you can be eating and I can teach you something if you don’t mind staying





in.” We didn’t mind that. And he taught—one of the special was being electrician. I wanted to be one! Oh, so, he instilled that within me to continue with it until even after he left, I was able to get my license. And that about a year ago, a fellow got a house way out in the woods. I say, “I didn’t know who you was!” Rollie Lee. Rollie Lee Baker. He say, “Well, what you doing”—I be just up about High Springs or somewhere—say, “I’m down here to do a little work on the house, what you wired over fifty years ago.” And the house we living in, about how many years we been in there? I wired it, done been some rewiring, and my brother that want to bug me with all these modern technological things, I didn’t go any further with it. But, we wired a whole lot of houses, and I had about eight to ten following me up, and some of them took up on it. And another thing I liked at the time was body work and painting. And I trained up a whole lot of, you know, teaching them mechanical skills. And even now, that’s one of the fastest growing things, they even got paint jobs now up to three hundred and some dollars. You buy all that material and what have you, and some of them go way on up. Got different paints now. So, we got so much body work, and that’s a good trade for young folk that don’t mind taking up the time for it. Money is in it. And some of them get their hundred dollars an hour and over, working.

	B:	Well, it sounds like teachers were a big part of your life when you were younger. J:	That’s what we had.

	CH:	Instilled within us, they could see it in us. I mean, that was a great thing, too. And we passed it on to others.

	J:	Teachers and preachers were the great—I’m sorry. Sister Henderson?





	JH:	I just wanted to make a correction. J:	Mr. Maxey.

	JH:	Mr. Maxey was your electrician.



	J:	Yeah. Mr. Caffey was out coach and music instructor, choral. JH:	Mr. Caffey was [inaudible 29:55].

	CH:	Carl Maxey was a electrician that taught us. JH:	He’s the one who taught you electricity.

	CH:	Carl Maxey.



	J:	One thing I learned to do in Hawthorne: Hawthorne years ago had people who would work. I had some relatives out in the back country, the Terrells. This was one big family, Hawthorne was. And if you went over to Uncle Otis Terrell’s—you didn’t have to go to work, you just show up. He would make sure that, he and Earnest Ivory, made sure that you worked. We picked beans, we stacked hay, we did whatever was to be done. And interestingly enough, I learned a lot about the farm, and learned a lot of how to take care of myself, and how to become a responsible person. Now, Rev.Henderson’s father was one of the hardest- working men I think I’ve met: Oscar Henderson. And here’s another thing: if you stayed around there, you were going to work, too. All you had to do was just stay there.

	CH:	Wouldn’t be no abuse, neither.



	J:	No, it wasn’t no. He would make sure. And we all, we shared what we had. I remember we would kill hogs on the first cold day, my uncle. And he wouldn’t kill all of them, he’d kill some of them. And we shared whatever we had with





everybody in the neighborhood. Black, White, whatever; you got a chance to share it. But I think that day has gone. I don’t think that exists anymore. We had a warm feeling among ourselves in the neighborhood.

	B:	Well, what changed? When did you notice that it started changing away from that?

	J:	Well, I made a mistake when I was nineteen years old. I got out of my uncle’s house, and I was never able to get back in there again, unfortunately. [Laughter] So, when I did get back, things had—and things are constantly changing now.

Look at gasoline: near three dollars a gallon. Who would’ve ever dreamed this in 2010? But I don’t think we’ve heard the end of this gasoline thing yet. Now, what I been trying to do is find me a job where I can could the prices of gasoline.

Because I’d have a full job every day! [Laughter]



	B:	Yeah, that would be nice. We would appreciate that work!



	J:	But America is changing. There was a time where there was no harm among the neighborhood, but now it’s almost devastating. Especially in cities like Jacksonville or Orlando, to name a few. And I dare not even mention Miami. We just changing.

	B:	But, what is it that changed?



	J:	The people. “Ah, Jesus,” I said, “you need to go into all the world and teach about Him,” and we fail to do that. So consequently, we’re paying for it. I say that as a chaplain. We’re paying for it. Yeah. I heard a story the other night where the man ask, “So you don’t really believe in God and Jesus.” And now, then he says, say, “Well, if you were in Miami, over in Old Town, about two o’clock in the





morning and your car broke down, and you saw six young men coming towards you, would you rather them be coming from a Bible study, or from the pool room?” [Laughter] So, we got the answer to that quickly. And I hope I’m not becoming comical, but the whole world is changing right in front of us. The prices of everything. I buried my aunt and my mother and my uncle for about six hundred dollars, and they were put away beautifully. But now? But the cost of equipment that these people are using, these professionals are using, it calls for a hike and everything. Just call for a hike.

	B:	So do you think that’s a political thing or an economic thing? Or just a cultural?



	J:	A lot of this stuff is political. I would say it was political. And I never been interested in politics. But they tried to get me to run for city councilman after Rev. Henderson had served many years.

	CH:	Eighteen. I didn’t run, though, I didn’t run for it. I call running for it is when you publish—all I did, went up and signed up for it.

	B:	Oh! And you stayed in it for eighteen years. CH:	Eighteen years.

	B:	So, you must have liked it.



	CH:	Yeah, I enjoyed; a part I didn’t enjoy, but I stayed there.



	B:	Okay. Well, what did you enjoy and what did you not enjoy?



	CH:	Much of the changes that went about, especially over the concern about our elderly people. We had different fights different times where the man came up to the podium, drawed back; I stayed right there. And he didn’t hit me or nothing. So we found out that if you look out for somebody, somebody going to look out to





get you out of the way, if it going cut them down from that greed that they have. So many people, when you mention about they coming from—whether they coming from the church or from the bar, what have you, you got to wonder now if they coming out the church. Some of them come out the church, done been in the church, trying to overlook what they can get when they come out of it! It’s dangerous even going to church, dangerous staying in church. That the best place to go, and your intent going there is to worship and to praise the Lord, and I call it get your battery built up where you come out and share with somebody else. And some of them coming out of the church to see what they can get from somebody else.

J:   Yes.



B:  Well, tell me a little bit about you growing up and going to church. Was church important when you were a child?

CH:  They were brought up from my parent. And as our pastor now, Pastor [inaudible 36:39], he bring it often about, “Now, my momma, you say something about your momma was on drugs. I say, ‘Yeah, she was on drug, because every time going to church, she drug me there!’” [Laughter] You went to church. You went.

B:   Everybody did, huh? Back in the day?



	J:	When I was just a kid, they had a Model T, I guess it would be called a SUV in this day. And they all could get on it, see? And it was called a peanut wagon. It had the name—we waited in school for the peanut wagon to show up, because we were going get two or three peanuts. A hundred kids was going get two or three peanuts; the peanut wagon.





	CH:	Loaded up to bring to share with somebody.



	J:	And this was the kind of family that existed here. He didn’t get anything out of those peanuts. All he got out of that is me talking about it today. But this was the kind of families we had back then.

	B:	Tell us more about your memories of community, and the community being a family, and sharing.

	J:	We didn’t mention the Homecoming. Now, it probably has been in existence for about what? Sixty years, somewhere? The Woods, the Shells, and all of these people started something the last Thursday in June of every year. The crowd that had gone away would come back for what is now known as the Homecoming, Hawthorne Homecoming. And it was interesting. You’d get to see some people you hadn’t seen in years, and the dinners used to be free but—it still free?

	JH:	It’s still free.



CH:  It’s still free! Well, we holding on to that tradition. I haven’t been for a while, but they have a speaker, usually a person who had lived here or had some, he had some idea of what we’re doing here. And it’s always very interesting.

B:  So, how does that work? Does every family put in vegetables or something for the meal? Where does the money come from to—?

CH:  Let me ask Sister Henderson to interject some thoughts there.



	JH:	Well, the families come together. There are some who solicit funds for the vegetables and what not, and the meat, and they buy. And there’s a volunteer group that done the cooking, that we cook the food and serve.

	B:	Was that a church group that volunteered, or who was it?





	JH:	They were mostly family, and friends. Church members was involved. Uh-huh.



	B:	So, just family and friends in the community as a whole. So it’s pretty much the whole community, huh?

	JH:	Yes, it involve the whole community. Because everybody would come to eat, everybody would come to celebrate Homecoming. But a few of the head people in the community got together and planned for it.

	B:	So who would be the head people? Was that the city council?



	JH:	No, just people in the community. Like maybe the deacons in the community, or some responsible head person or family.

	B:	So you just kind of agree amongst friends who would organize it that year, or—?



	JH:	Well, it was—I don’t really have a history on it, but there were a group of men who sat down and planned this Homecoming affair, and it went from there.

	B:	Okay. And it’s still going today. JH:	And it’s still going today.

	B:	Wow. Do you know what weekend it will be this year?



	JH:	The last Thursday in June. Now they’ve started having it three days: Thursday, Friday and Saturday. I don’t know if they’ll do it this year or not, but they’ve been celebrating Thursday, Friday and Saturday.

	B:	And the whole—all of Hawthorne is invited.



	JH:	Everybody’s invited to come. People come from far and near. It’s not as large as it used to be. It used to be just a lot of people getting together, families coming together and visit. People who’ve been away from home for a long time come back home to visit.





	B:	So, it’s a good opportunity to catch up with people. JH:	Yeah.

	J:	I would say that they—last time I was there, they probably fed more than, close to a thousand people.

	B:	Wow, that’s a big party!



	J:	They had the nice ribs and beans. It was just nice. Get to see some people you hadn’t seen. And then if you want to profile, you could profile. Some people come to profile. [Laughter] But it was interesting; the speaker was always, he was a person of interest. The speaker was.

	B:	Is it always a he, or is there sometime a lady that speaks? J:	I have never seen a female. Has that [inaudible 42:05]?

	JH:	Yes.



	J:	Okay, I must’ve missed something.



	JH:	We had a young lady, Ethel Freeman. Ethel Carter Freeman.



	J:	Oh, did Ethel Freeman speak? I didn’t know that, I would have been there. B:	Who is Ethel Carter Freeman?

	JH:	She was one of my husband’s cousins that grew up here. She, I believe they came from Orange Springs. And she went to school here, and graduated from the high school.

	B:	Okay. In Hawthorne.



	JH:	In Hawthorne, back in the early [19]40s. And she was a principal down at Bartrow for years. She’s retired. In fact, she’s been under the weather for a while now, last I heard of her.





	S:	Rev. Henderson, what do you remember about your parents?



	CH:	The main thing is how they overworked themselves, from way back. And we had to go get it, too; we had to work before going to school, and come back and work. But I didn’t have to work as much as my brothers. They got out of, they’d say, “Where you—you going”—the oldest, he want to go and do some hunting. He say, “Won’t never let me do no hunting at all!” Momma, “All right, now.” Went out there, sound like he done started a war, and come back and ain’t killed nothing but shot up Momma’ shells. So I didn’t have to work as hard as they did, long as I’d go out and—well, normally bring some fish back, or either bring something else I done killed.

	B:	How many brothers and sisters did you have?



	CH:	I had six. Let me see: five. I get mixed up. Six sisters, and Nathaniel, Lonnie— yeah, five of them.

	B:	So what number were you in the family? What was your birth order, what number were you?

	CH:	Oh, I had one younger than I, Warren. He’s passed now. J:	And one sister younger. Two sisters younger.

	B:	Let’s see, so there were eleven children? Okay. And you were number nine, then. Is that right? Nine out of eleven. [Laughter] Goodness.

	S:	Did your parents also grow up here?



	CH:	Well, out in the country. They never moved. S:	At Corn Crossing?

	B:	Do you know what year your parents were born?





	CH:	I don’t remember.



	B:	Must’ve too long ago, huh? Do you know how your family came to this area originally?

	CH:	They were born and raised out in the country. Like, near Orange Springs area, and coming this way.

	JH:	Your father was born in Orange Springs, but I don’t know. But his daddy came from Alabama. That was hearsay; I don’t know.

	B:	Well, we know—both of us are from Alabama. I’d be interested to hear if you knew where in Alabama they came from. Where they migrated from.

	J:	My mother lives in Tuscaloosa now. She’s ninety-seven. She still driving—I think that’s what they call she might be driving! She’s still there. She seems to be rather healthy. I ask her to come live with me, and she say, “No, you come live with me. You the youngest.”

	B:	Okay, so how many brothers and sisters do you have?



	J:	I only had one sister. And I had an uneventful life to some extent. My mother was, had me out of wedlock, and it led from one thing to the other, which I don’t usually discuss with anybody. But I made out. God took good care of me, and gave me some great parents right out in the country from Hawthorne. And again, I say I was delighted with the people I met. I can’t think of anybody that I don’t love from Hawthorne. And life turned out pretty good for me. I went on to teach thirty years, worked for the school board, and then while I was at the school board, a person that I won’t call the name now asked me if I would be interested in becoming a chaplain for the Civil Air Patrol out of MacDill. So he said, “But you





got to pass some tests.” So, right away I was challenged to go to MacDill and take the tests. And consequently I passed them, and I been with them since [19]96 as a chaplain.

	B:	And is that your uniform that you’re wearing today?



	J:	Yes. Civil Air Patrol, which is a offspring of the Air Force. Our group trained astronauts and pilots and all this kind of stuff. They talk about airmen who was in, they teach our children this, and they work out of Tampa, Lakeland, and the surrounding communities with our youth. And whenever I can, I join them. And it’s been quite a ride for me; I enjoyed it. I met some interesting people.

	B:	Can you remember one person in particular that really sticks out in your mind? A story that you heard, or anything you’d like to share?

	J:	Well, Jim LaFollette was a person, he and I worked together with the school board. And he asked me what interest I would have in becoming a chaplain. So I told him, yeah, I don’t know if I can pass the test or not. He said, “Well, we’ll see.” So at the time I was at Moody, and probably that helped me to pass the test that was given at MacDill. And it was not so simple. It was—.

	B:	What sorts of things would they ask you on the chaplain test?



	J:	Strictly Bible. Bible, and then family, Bible, family, and education. Just life in general.

	B:	And you had some good training from Rev. Henderson’s father.



	J:	Yes! That started me, yes. And Chester Shell and all that group. So consequently, all this stuff helped me. I’m not much, but it helped me be what I am.





	B:	You’re very humble. You’re very modest about your background.



	J:	I enjoyed it. But one of the people I look for in school, and always have looked, has been Rev. Henderson. We had a quartet one time—I’ll let him tell you about it. We had a quite a quartet, and I think I was playing for him.

	B:	Playing which instrument? J:	I was a guitarist.

	S:	Well, tell us about that quartet!



	B:	Yeah, what kind of music did you play?



	CH:	We couldn’t get around to people calling for us at different times on special occasions. I had some kind of old long car, wrote on the back, “The Gospel Trumpets of Harmony.” And I had some kind of—I don’t guess you could buy it now—you put it in your car, mash a button, and it go up and, “Mary had a little lamb, lit—.” They say, “Here he come!” Because I’m not going to school. They go, “Here come the peanut wagon!” So with the Gospel Trumpets of Harmony, and Chester Shell would get appointments, and he would do a little speaking, and then turn it loose to us to do the singing. We had a great quartet singing way back then, and then, well, I still sing in the choir at—my membership is at Galilee, and sing in the choir. But we went—in between, we’d be going somewhere, singing. Now you said, my mother in law and a good friend of hers, they didn’t want us to go nowhere without they going with us. And they’d be the first one to start shouting in that church. We had a lot of good times with the quartet singing, and Brother Jones, and then Bill Curtis, and Johnny Jenkins. Sometimes all three, sometime two, and even if it didn’t have but one. But if something





happened, we always had—I don’t believe we ever went without having one of our guitarists.

	B:	So what year was that? How long did you guys do that? CH:	Maybe Jones could tell you about that.

	J:	[19]46, [194]7, [194]8. Up until I left for the Service. That’s when I left them. And I went in in [19]51, Korean conflict. And I think it kind of dwindled from there. But we used to profile quite a bit. We enjoyed singing.

	B:	And so you did mostly gospel songs. J:	That’s all we did. Strictly gospel.

	B:	And you would harmonize with your voices, and then also have the guitar? Wow, that sounds beautiful. Do you have any recordings, did you ever record your voices?

CH:  Yeah, once in a while, we find recording at so many different places that we did some recorded. But I don’t can put my hand right on it; I’m looking for them, we can find some.

B:  Yeah, just let us know if you ever find them because we would love to digitize them and put them on DVD.

J:   Really be nice.



B:   Yeah. It would be lovely to hear it.



	J:	The first tape recorder I ever remember was Rev. Henderson bought it. And this thing had a wire, reel-to-reel wire on it. That must have been what, sixty years ago? That had to be. Street’s Bicycles sold it to him. And boy, we could hear ourselves sing back! We couldn’t get over that.





B:  Yeah, it helps you to hear your own voice and hear what you sound like, so you can sort of find your equilibrium and what sounds the best. So you guys were a hit, you were very well known in this area.

	J:	They kind of knew us, yeah. Right across the street, I saw my first television set in 1949. And this was a huge box with a little window in it, and all I could see was the fuzz and just a outline of somebody over in Egypt. I never will forget it. I say, “Nah, that won’t never make it.” Did I make a mistake! Was back in [19]49 I saw my first TV; had this huge box.

	B:	Do you remember the first time you saw a TV? CH:	I don’t remember.

	B:	Because they probably weren’t very common in their early days. So in the [19]40s and [19]50s, they weren’t too common, huh?

	J:	I remember that day in about [19]49. At the Seagle Building. B:	Oh, was that in Gainesville?

	J:	Yes, that’s where I saw it. I went down, made a special trip to go see it. B:	Oh, really? So was it in the newspaper?

	J:	I don’t know how I found out about it, but I went down. It was interesting, because I could see this man in there. And I looked at it a few minutes, I say, “Unh-uh.

That won’t ever; that’s the end of that!” Yeah.



	B:	Well, when would you go to Gainesville? What would you do in Gainesville?



	J:	Well, I worked in Gainesville until I went in the Service. I was a garbage man, the garbage truck. I can tell you how much I made: thirty-six sixty-four.

	B:	Per day?





	J:	Per week! [Laughter]



	B:	Was that enough to live on?



	J:	Well, I made forty dollars, and they took the taxes out of it. That was big money. B:	It was? So it paid well. Because I hear it still pays well, being a garbage man.

	H:	Yeah. And I always had a job. And all my buddies were over there, so I wanted to be with my buddies. And I was young and I could grab the back of the garbage truck. I had a great time, I thought.

	B:	Well, what did you do for entertainment while you were living in Gainesville? J:	Now, I never lived in Gainesville. I caught a ride. I commuted.

	B:	Wow, that’s a long commute!



	J:	Yeah, we’d go every day and come back every evening.



B:   Goodness! And where did you go to high school? In Gainesville? H:   No, right here. Yeah, in Hawthorne. Chester Shell High. Shell High.

B:  Okay, because who was it that told us that they went to Lincoln High School from here?

J:  That probably was after [19]57. Because my wife finished the last class in [19]55, then—when it started? [19]56, [19]57? Gainesville, Lincoln? I know Irma was the last class in [19]55.

B:   To go to Shell High School. Okay.



J:   Yes. She was the last class, mmhm. Because Jackie and all those, they finished at Lincoln.

	B:	For the life of me I cannot remember who we talked to that—. JH:	You probably talked to the mayor.





	S:	No, we haven’t talked to him yet.



	B:	Maybe it was Mr. McMeekin’s wife. He was telling a story about his wife. So when did they start bussing students to Lincoln?

	J:	19]56, wasn’t it?



	B:	And why did they do that? Why did they—did Shell close?



J:  Well, it was only, what, nine people in Irma’s class, my first wife’s class. Was only nine people, so I think that they saw there was no need anymore. It’d be cheaper to bus than to try to keep Shell open. So they turned it into what, an elementary?

	B:	Right, which it still—is it a middle school today? J:	It’s a middle now.

	JH:	And it’s one here now, but one time there was not a middle school. B:	And then, where did the middle school students go to school?

	JH:	They just went from first to the ninth grade at Shell. J:	At Shell, mmhm.

	B:	Okay, so you went to high school your whole life? [Laughter] You started in high school, and you finished in high school. Well, tell us a little bit about what it was like to go to school a long time ago. Were they, did you go the whole eight hours, and was it nine months out of the year? What was school like?

	J:	Back in my day—and I’ll be brief—Mr. Green, and Mr. Jones, and that crew had something called a “board of education.” Board about that long that—. [Laughter] And they didn’t mind using it.

	CH:	Mmhm. They would use it, too.





	J:	So, we didn’t have too many problems like they have today. You knew better than to talk back. And these—I would say one of the better teachers that I ever came in contact with, college or anywhere else, was James R. Green.

	B:	He was your basketball coach.



	J:	He was also our principal. And he was the Industrial Art teacher, too. And he was the guy with the board, too! [Laughter] So, James R. Green was an excellent person.

	B:	Did you have any women teachers?



	J:	Yes, quite a few. Yes. And they were all great teachers. And Mr. Britt followed him; he was from Jacksonville, he was a great principal. And after that I’m lost. Went away, and I don’t know what happened.

	B:	Where were the teachers from? I talked to someone in Archer who said their teachers were from Gainesville, and they drove to Archer and lived with a family during the week. Was that the same here?

	JH:	It was the same here, it was some teachers commuted from Gainesville to Hawthorne.

	B:	Okay. And then, who did they live with?



	J:	In the community. My mother-in-law kept one teacher, I remember. But it might seem hard now, but back then it was a way of life. You didn’t consider it a roadblock back then. One of the things that keep bothering me was this, this kept bothering me: maybe this isn’t the right time to say this, but I wanted Rev.

Henderson to go onto Daytona to school. And he would’ve taken sister Henderson with him, but this guy was a worker! He could pick up a piece of





pulpwood—and he’d get the big end of it! So, this guy, he has, it’s unbelievable the work that he has done. It’s just unbelievable. But I always, this a good time for me to ask you: why didn’t you go on to Bethune? And I guess he just—he went to work.

	CH:	I was needed ‘round here.



	J:	Okay. Okay. There’s the answer to that!



	B:	Needed by who, doing what? What were you doing instead of going to college?



	CH:	We contracted, hauling pulp wood. And taking over and hiring different men to work, and having some to—and I would go out ahead of them and cut down trees. And we didn’t have these chainsaws like we got now. We had a push saw, and with a long, big blade on it, and we’d cut them logs. Then we would take it to [inaudible 1:01:18], and kick it, where it’s a wonder it didn’t kill us. Sometimes them things would bring them back. And we did this for many, many years. And in different times, men wouldn’t come to work. And I’ll jump in and go ahead and work myself on the loading, and different times, it would come up and unload.

And I was a mechanic. I remember once when the truck broke down—some of them’ll break a lots, where they get all—. I say, “Well, I’ll get it fixed for you.” And I went and got the transmission out. I don’t understand how I did it myself. Some [inaudible 1:01:57], and I went and took that transmission out, and had the clutch put in, and had it put back in the next morning. So, I went out there about the middle of the night. And there were times when we would hunt until about the middle of the night, and then get up and go work that morning. Different time you went with us, and you quit going.





	J:	I quit. [Laughter]



	S:	Where did the logs go? J:	Railroad right here.

	CH:	Yeah, on the road up here. They would ship them different places. S:	How big were the trees that you were cutting?

	CH:	Oh, some of them about, oh, just like these big trees. Not these great big ones we have now, but maybe six to eight inches around, I mean, pretty wide. Then, the further you go on to the top, the smaller it get. And then we had to cut it, say, about eight to feet long. Some of them wasn’t quite as long as the other. And when we go out and have them say, “Lay it on me.” You walk up there and another one get in there.

	J:	This big around. And he would put it up on the car box thing. CH:	The big car box.

	J:	This guy could do it.



	B:	And how much did they weigh?



	J:	God only know; three hundred pounds, I’d say. Two or three hundred pounds.



	S:	And how did you—you got it out of the woods; how did you get it out of the woods? How did you get the logs out of the woods?

	CH:	We had a trucks, and I had two men. And when one wouldn’t show up, I’ll get in and load it up, and go and help unload it. Some of them would disappoint you about their work.

	B:	So, who would not show up? Was there a specific type of person that wasn’t showing up?





	CH:	Yeah, once they done drunk too much, you can’t reason with them. [Laughter] And you want them to come back to work, so we put up with a whole lot back then. Then, way later on, I was out picking fruit, and down near the Lochloosa area, they would have those tall trees and people would go up so far, and wouldn’t go on up on a thirty-six foot ladder. The man’ll give me a little extra, you know to get them what they left up there.

	J:	Forty feet up.



	CH:	And now, up anywhere from thirty- to forty-foot ladders we had. So happened that I got out of the pulpwood and got away from—well we went picking fruit down to Winter Haven. I wanted to get a house built, and was saving up money to build a house of our own. And worked on that, and then later, I became a school bus driver. And I drove—I didn’t drive very long; they wasn’t paying nothing much for it. And it got me to organize, and we go to that superintendent. I say, “Well, let’s organize. We go to him to get some more money.” And they say, “We ain’t get nothing for it.” And I would go all the way from Hawthorne and pick up and carry to Gainesville. And the day all of us supposed to meet, I met by myself. And it wasn’t long before I didn’t go no more. I put in at Sunland Training Center that time. That’s where I stayed out there, and they put me over—well, I was out there I don’t know how many years before they put—they found out I could cut hair, which already, some would press you, they want to know where that haircut came from. “I done slipped my clippers out there and cut ‘em.” They say, “Oh, you a barber!” So, they put me in the barber shop, and then I had a supervisor over me. And then we had two barber shop. Later, I became





supervisor over all of the barber until I retired. But before retiring, they signed they note they going to get him outside to have the hair cut. And one cutter they took out there, they had to recut the Black and the Whites all over again. And different ones kept up, “But he ain’t got no license.” So, a licensed barber came there, and he let me know he was taking over that day. And I say, “Well, then I’ll do what you want me to do.” And then, come to find out I had to show him how to cut some; they sent him back up there. And then they, “Well, they say you ain’t got no license.” “Yes, I have license.” “Well, where your license?” “Anytime you see my clippers in my hand, that’s my license.” [Laughter] So I stayed there until I retired myself.

	B:	So what years did you work for each of these places? What years were in the pulpwood, and then what years did you pick fruit, and what years were you a barber?

	CH:	How many years I was at Sunland? I wasn’t at the whole time barbering, I was working in the cottages before being a barber. I was out there for quite a while, I don’t know how many years.

	B:	Do you remember what year it was that you started? CH:	No, I don’t remember.

	JH:	Twenty-three years.



	B:	Do you remember what year he started?



	JH:	He started in—no, I don’t remember the exact year. But it was in late [19]50s or early [19]60s. I believe it was in the early [19]60s when he started.

	CH:	Wasn’t I eighteen years at Sunland?





	JH:	Twenty-three years, I think.



	CH:	Yeah now, that was now eighteen years I was at my first church in Archer. St. Peter Baptist Church, that the first church I had. Then I went first and third, and another church called me for second and fourth. So, on the last go-‘round—I believe it was seven churches all together—the last one I pastored, Gilgal, not far from here—and I was there, and Mt. Pedro in Micanopy; second and fourth, first and third. So the three churches down here went together, but I was down there for seven years. And during that time, after being there seven years, now they three churches went together, called Trinity, and that’s where I—not retired, I resigned. That gave me a chance to go every Sunday at Mt. Pedro, Micanopy.

And during that time, we joined in with Dr. Stafford, First United Methodist here. I don’t know how many years we had every fifth Sunday, we would have what they call a “blend service”: the choir members, Black and White, would sing together, and we had a professional guitarist, professional saxophone player. We had some good timing together, and the choir members would march in and sing together, and whatever the song, we want you to do it together. We had that fellowshipping until—that was Dr. Stafford. Okay. Well after, every fifth Sunday that we’d come up here, I would preach; Dr. Stafford would preach when we come down there, but always keep it. So that phased out after my retirement from—I didn’t resign from Mount Pedro, I retired after being there twenty-nine years. And my brother-in-law from Massachusetts, they were great builders. And this old raggedy church was started off with maybe, some wouldn’t say but thirteen members, some say it was a little over thirteen, but I accepted it second





and fourth Sunday. Now I’m going every Sunday, since we had peoples just kept come and joining, and we have—with that new church built, and the old church, we call it “modernizing” it, then you wouldn’t think that that was the same. And that’s the dining room. Now, we have, I would say, between sixty and ninety new members in a little over two years. And we have, one Sunday I counted thirty- three youth marched out of the choir, and when people went around saying I had no business picking no oranges right on it. Well, coming up to that last big freeze, we wanted to pick as many Chinese honey as we could. Store them up; if the freeze get them, we’ll have a lot of them. Because that was the number one: Chinese honey. And I was in charge of seven different groves, you know, to see about the fruit being picked. And so, we went all around getting up this, that, and the other, and then really I didn’t have no business, but I wanted to get as much as I could get picked. And they say, “He fell off the ladder here, he have no business up on no ladder!” I tell them, “I ain’t fell off no ladder.” Well, no, I fell with the ladder, because I was holding on; broke my ankle, and I told my helpers Lord saw fit to heal that bone, but I’m still here, and that’s been several years ago now.

	B:	How long ago was that? Do you know what decade it was? That you were picking oranges and fell?

	CH:	Well, we still— JH:	Last year.

	B:	It was last year? You were on a ladder last year? CH:	Yeah.





B: Goodness! [Laughter] CH:  I made it.

B:  So you’re talking about the freeze that happened this last winter? I thought were talking about back in the day. Well, look at you, climbing up ladders and picking oranges! Old habits die hard, don’t they?

	CH:	We were in charge of moving fruit for people. Doctor from Jacksonville, he died; his son was up north and put me in charge down to Cross Creek. And then Miss—the lady up at, Lake Winnott, that’s the one that have more Chinese honey than anybody else. And we’ll even get loads and deliver to churches, and anybody want fruit, just give a donation if you want fruit and ain’t got no donation. There lot people don’t act right, they get more than what they need. But they still talking. I tell them, I say, “If the shoe fits you, you wear it!” And we still believe in, blessed are the cheerful giver; he that giveth, saveth. Don’t worry about it! It’ll come back to you, one way or the other. So we been involved right on with moving fruit. And here, just last week a fellow from Archer came by; he wanted another load. I said, now it’s been about a month that ended the fruit season, but we got in with the orange shop down here in Citra. They get fruit from way down south. The freeze went down there, but somehow or another they have a lot of fruit that didn’t ruin, but it cut us off about—been nearly a month ago now, the last thing we could have with them. So that got it for the fruit season.

	B:	Okay. So, agriculture is a big part of Hawthorne. And I guess it always have been. Do you care to talk about your experiences in agriculture in Hawthorne?





	CH:	We had so many times that we’d be glad coming up to Christmastime, but they know the freeze is coming, so they it have organized. What that preacher, you know, drive that big thing? We go down there, and have all set up when they notify you where the temperature done dropped to a certain thing; well, while we sitting around, we’d be so glad that it don’t drop down, where we have to light up that whole grove. Have so many on this side of the road, and another one over here.

	J:	Heaters.



	CH:	Lighting up them heaters.



	B:	Just to keep the freeze away.



	CH:	Yeah, didn’t freeze the fruit. After we light up all of that, and all that time they have, they fill a great big, old, like a certain kettle, have a big old—not barbecuing, what they call that? Purlough rising? We just around there eating, and some of them trying to see who could tell the biggest lie. And time when they blow that whistle, time to go light up, you get away from there, and some of them will still go down and don’t light up what they supposed to. So it was very interesting. And when it come to bean picking? Oh, we had some of them they call “muckstepping.” We have, I mean, just hundreds of droves of them, and that freeze just got it where we don’t have it anymore, going down on every side of the road, going south from here and going north. What they call the butter beans, and the Ford hooks, and the string beans. And some of them—they say, “Well you see, he go for who tied the barrel.” And they—so one fellow, to keep him from beating me, I found out, I beat all of them. I found out, now: when he get





them beans, he start put some in there, and then he go to hold them like that, then he stack them. I say, “I see what he doing. He ain’t laying them down!” I start stacking mine! [Laughter] So you know that wasn’t fair though, it wasn’t fair; but I won out. They going give you so much, whoever get the most crates that day. But stacking them, you could get them—don’t get nearly as many, but they stack; you push the top down, it come back up. You have to hook and tie it. So. But it was, that got it, but that farming with all those Ford hooks and what have you, that was a great thing. And they have what they call them big truckloads of people, stay out in the woods, and then that’s where they stay for months, ‘til the bean season is over.

	J:	And they would travel all the way up the coast, all the way to New Hampshire, some of them. Some of them would go on over into New York, pick cherries; then they would come back when the weather warmed up.

	B:	Oh, these are people moving. CH:	Yes.

	J:	Yes, they start down on the Glades and work their way up. About this time of year, they’d be in this neighborhood.

	B:	Okay. So, you’d have people passing through here—on the train, or were they driving in trucks?

	J:	Probably had their own vehicles.



	B:	Would that have been—because I know today, that might have been immigrants from Latin America. Who was it back then?





	J:	No, this was Black people. These people like me. But they could work! All these guys could work. They made a living doing this. My uncle told a guy one day, say, “I owe you four dollars,” or some big amount of money back then. Say, “you get it tomorrow when you come back.” He say, “Mister, tomorrow I’m going be in North Carolina.” Which meant he wanted the four dollars then. So, this is the kind of lifestyle that they lived in.

	B:	Did you ever meet these people and talk to them?



	J:	They didn’t want to. They weren’t interested in any relationship. B:	So it wasn’t like a community that they kind of—

	J:	No, no, no. They didn’t want to become a part of the community, because they weren’t going to be here but X amount of time.

	B:	And then they might not ever come back again.



	J:	Might see them next year, and you might not. Yeah. They had some silly little names: mucksteppers, and beanstalkers, and all kind of—.

	B:	That’s so interesting. And so would they eat—they would eat at the restaurants here, and would they live in people’s houses, or did they have their own quarters?

	J:	I’m not sure. They lived a rugged life.



	CH:	They would arrange for themselves, staying out there in the woods. J:	Covered trucks and stuff.

	B:	They wouldn’t stay in a hotel? CH:	Oh, no, no.

	J:	No, no, not these people. Being real, no, they—. [Laughter]





	S:	They were sort of camping? J:	Yes. Like hobos camping.

	B:	Did you think of them as like real men that were out working, or were they like scary people? What did you think of them?

	J:	Well, they didn’t want you close to them. They weren’t interested in your friendship. They wanted one thing.

	CH:	A few dollars.



	J:	Yeah. And then, they were out of here.



	B:	So did your parents ever tell you to stay away from them? J:	Well, we knew better.

	B:	Oh, you just, you could tell.



	J:	In closure, I would like to say that Hawthorne had prepared me for, I think, a good life. I’ve had a pretty good life. I’ve met some interesting people here. And some people I will never forget, and some I was glad to forget; but consequently, I think I love Hawthorne. I just always—and by chance, I get a chance to come through every now and then and talk to people that are still around. Most of the people I know have gone away or they aren’t in existence any more. And I thank you for an opportunity to be a part of this criteria.

	CH:	We even had a jail house here. B:	Did you really?

	CH:	Yes.



	J:	I didn’t go, but I went by it. [Laughter] S:	Where was it?





	J:	It was down the street.



	CH:	I thought it just across the railroad right over there.



	J:	That was the pawn pen. That was the pawn pen right up here. CH:	Yeah, that’s right, the pawn pen.

	B:	The pawn pen?



	J:	Your cow got out and he came to town, and the sheriff would put him in there, and then you had to pay a dollar and half to get him out.

	CH:	Many times, I had to come up here and cowboy, get our cows back down there about four or five miles.

	B:	Oh no! Because your cow would break the fence and—?



	J:	If he got out and got up to the pawn pen, you needed a dollar and a half. B:	How do you spell that? Pawn?

	J:	P-A-W-N, like a pawn shop. CH:	You had to pay, too.

	S:	So you had cows, cattle?



	CH:	Oh yeah, we had quite a few cows.



	J:	We did too. We had quite a few. There was no fence law in existence at that time. You could let your cows roam freely.

	S:	But they couldn’t come to town.



	J:	Well they weren’t supposed to. But you had a brand on them. I never will forget, ours was nine. Sheriff got him, he knew exactly who nine was, and they let you know. Then you needed a dollar and a half per cow.

	B:	Which, that’s a lot of money.





	J:	A lot of money back then! CH:	Big money.

	J:	Sixty years ago, that was a lot of money.



	B:	And would that go to the city, because the sheriff collected it? J:	That was going to the sheriff! [Laughter]

	B:	Well, we always ask about moonshining, and juke joints, and entertainment. Was there moonshining going on in this area?

	CH:	Moonshine? Yeah, there was plenty of it. I never dealt with it, because all we wanted was some orange skimming. You know, we drank some of, like, they juice the orange, and we had the horse go around, and they catch the juice and what have you. “Cane skimming,” as they called it.

	B:	So you had fresh orange juice.



	CH:	Oh yeah, but some of them, they put it away where it’ll get sour and get drunk off of it.

	J:	It ferment. Once it ferment—



	CH:	But they had a lot of moonshine all through the woods and around. People come all the way from Jacksonville to pick up moonshine.

	B:	Would it have been expensive? Or was it cheaper than buying—well, actually, I think this county was a dry county for a while, wasn’t it?

	J:	It was dry, yes. Because of the university.



	B:	Okay. Which, what year did the university get here? Do you remember? J:	I’m not sure.

	B:	Or, what years it was dry, the county was dry?





	J:	I don’t remember but it’s been a long time.



	S:	Do you remember where you could go to get moonshine?



	CH:	Where to go? All I know, down in them bushes. And I didn’t go back there because I didn’t want none. I didn’t want nothing to do with it.

	J:	Different people, different people had moonshine, back when I was a kid.



Different people. But you better keep your mouth closed, because you could get socked in the mouth if you start talking too much.

	CH:	Didn’t want nothing to do with it.



	J:	No, we stayed away from that kind of stuff.



	B:	So it was illegal, and you knew that it was bad, and you didn’t—. Because I think we’ve talked to some people, it might not have been in Hawthorne, but in Archer. And they said it was illegal, but everybody knew about it, so it wasn’t, they didn’t think of it as a bad kind of illegal. It was just illegal by circumstance.

	J:	Everybody did it. Everybody was kind of like, you know, free for all. Fifty cent shot; little glass about that high, and you get a fifty-cent shot.

	B:	So that’s expensive!



	J:	That was expensive back then!



	CH:	The worst thing we have now is those drugs. Not getting better, it’s getting worse. B:	So moonshine was kind of the equivalent of drugs back then?

	J:	About the same difference. CH:	I would say.

	B:	Okay. It was illicit, it was kind of for a certain group of people that—? J:	But nobody killed each other back then. They just—





	CH:	They’d beat you up, though!



	J:	Yeah, you’d get beat up a little, but you can get killed now. CH:	Yeah, right quick.

	S:	What about clubs, or juke joints, or places you go and listen to music? Were there any of those around here?

	CH:	Well, I never was interested in it, so far as the dancing and the partying, what have you.

	J:	From what I could see of it—I wasn’t allowed there, but I’d sneak in, and that’s where you’d get a soda pop. And it was a dance thing, see? And the crowd would gather around, and all these people that could really dance. When I was about nineteen—fifteen, sixteen years old, it was hard for a Black person to escape the juke atmosphere. It was just hard. This was our entertainment around here. But I wasn’t really allowed there but I’d sneak in.

	B:	Is that your mom and dad that said no?



	J:	Yeah, they was set against that. They called that “nonsense.” Yeah.



	S:	What about places to go to the movies? Was there any place to go to the movies around here?

	J:	They had one movie theater down this street. What’s that name? Shell’s? CH:	Jack.

	J:	Jack, Jack—



	CH:	Jack.



	J:	What’s Jack— JH:	Jack Grimes.





	CH:	Jack Grimes, right. Yes.



	J:	Jack Grimes, had a movie theater, and he had another movie theater uptown.



And we went to the movie theater here—if you had fifteen cent. You had to have fifteen cent.

	B:	Okay, so that wasn’t too expensive, but it was kind of a treat to get to go.



	J:	Right. Then TV killed that. And then Jack got older, he didn’t feel like it after his dad passed.

	B:	Well, if you don’t mind me asking, we always learned in school that theaters were segregated, so that the Black people sat up top and the White people sat down below. Was that the way it was?

	J:	He had a Black theater here, and the other theater was right down the street here.

	B:	Oh, okay. Was there a difference in what movies they played?



	J:	I’m not sure. Yeah, because we had to wait sometime until Tim McCoy and Fuzzy and that group, ‘til they finished the film then and bought it. But we didn’t mind waiting. That was about fifteen cent when I was going. Boy, that fifteen cent was hard to get! Was it hard to get! Then you wanted a soda, a nickel soda, so you actually needed a quarter. [Laughter]

	B:	Well, I have to ask you, you worked in Gainesville, did you ever go to the Cotton Club or hear anything about it?

	J:	No, I never was interested in that kind of thing.



	B:	So, Gainesville was really just work and then come home. J:	Come home, yeah.





	B:	So all your fine time was here, and work was in Gainesville. J:	Right, yeah. Following Reverend Henderson to the fish creek. S:	Where did you fish?

	CH:	Well even Town Lake right here in Hawthorne, on and off, and then, from there, Lochloosa was a special place.

	J:	Lochloosa was our headquarters. S:	Good fishing?

	CH:	Yeah, good fishing. J:	Extra. Extra good.

	B:	When they had fish fries, I heard a story about a fish fry. Was that fish that you guys would have caught, out there? Or did they order it to come in?

	J:	Most likely somebody caught it. Some of us caught it. It’s not unusual to get a limit of fish in Lochloosa, still now. It’s not unusual. Now the man don’t catch you, you just—. [Laughter]

	B:	But what kind of fish was it? You said you caught bream when it was a bad day. CH:	Bluegill, shellcracker—

J: Speckled perch. CH: Speckled perch. J:  Warmouth.

CH: Nile perch J:  Bass.

CH:  Catfish.



J:   Catfish.





	B:	So on a good day, what did you catch?



	CH:	Now, twenty-five was the limit for speckled perch, and fifty is the limit for warmouth, bluegill, or shellcrackers. And this just been about a month ago, where the game warden caught, I found out—we got two fellows got the same name. And I found out—well, today I found out for sure, because the one that went to court with the other one said—that was the one from—Nick, Nick as they called each one. The one from Citra, they said he had to pay a fifty dollar court cause and three hundred dollars to mail somewhere and had a certain length of time to mail it, because he had nine or nineteen over the limit. And the game warden said if he can leave. And man say, “I done already counted them when you were counting them. I know what you got over.” And he gave—see, but the man, this game warden was so nice, he let him take the fish over that, those he had over the limit. But take that ticket and go to court. I found out today the one we was saying was my cousin, it was not him, it was the one live in Citra, because Oliver Hurts told me today he went with him to court over to Gainesville. And just a few fish, that’s over three hundred and some dollars. [Laughter]

	S:	What about alligators? Did you ever catch alligators?



	CH:	Yeah, better shy away from them. They catch you with alligators, that’s money



	you got to pay. But way back— J:	If they can catch you.

	CH:	—on and off, we would catch them.



	B:	Rev. Jones says he’s got a four o’clock appointment.





	S:	Oh! Oh no! So can you stay for a little while? Can you stay for a little while so we can keep talking to you?

	CH:	Oh, sure, I don’t have no commitment other than to make this meeting up here. S:	Okay, great. Should we stop if for a minute?

	B:	Sure we can, just to say goodbye. Thank you so much for joining us. S:	Thank you so much.

	J:	Thank you for having me.



	B:	Yeah, we’d love to talk to you again if you have time.



	J:	This like Homecoming. Which is going to be in, what? Three weeks. B:	Yeah, end of June, it’s coming up!

	J:	Matter of fact it’s going be Father’s Day this year, isn’t it? B:	I guess so.

	J:	The 20th? Father’s Day the 20th? I believe that’ll be the third Sunday. Be Father’s day the 20th, and Homecoming, too.

	B:	Well, I would love to talk to you about your days in Korea, too. I know it’s not a nice subject, but I’d like to hear the stories that you may have. So, we’ll schedule another interview when you some the time.

	J:	Okay, we can come back then.



	B:	If you’d be willing to talk to us again. J:	Yeah, thank you for having me.

	S:	No, thank you so much for coming. Well, you’re going to stay, aren’t you?



	CH:	Well, we organized a group of us [inaudible 1:31:45] that would let my daddy know we going off in the car. And we’d go down in Marion County, and so, take





the gas, everybody put a nickel or dime in. Then we didn’t have enough gas, we’d put a little kerosene in there with the gas. [Laughter]

	J:	You could do that back then. For sure. That won’t work now, though!



	S:	Well, we’re going to keep on interviewing. We’re just going to say goodbye.



Thank you so much for coming. We appreciate this.



	J:	Take care and God bless you. Sister Henderson.



	S:	We really appreciate it. We’ll get back with you about some more.



	B:	I hope you’ll be able to come back and talk to us some more, because you’ve got some good stories.

	J:	Meanwhile, I’ll dig up some pictures about turpentine. I got to dig them up.



	S:	See, that was one of my questions to ask, was about the turpentine. So you’ve got to come back.

	J:	I have some pictures. B:	That will be great.

	S:	That’s one of my favorite subjects. I live right at Grove Park, so I’m— J:	That’s near Heaven, Grove Park!

	S:	I agree with you there. [Laughter] J:	Take care.

	B:	Would you like to sit up here?



	S:	She’s going to come up and sit with us. So I’m going to reposition this. We don’t want to miss out on the rest of your stories, here.

	JH:	Maybe I should go to the bathroom, before—





	S:	Okay take a break and do that. We’ve got a cup of water over here for you too, if you’d like. There’s one for you, Anna, and one for—

	B:	This one’s mine, and then we’ll let you have this one.



S:  Mine’s right here. I might get some more water. Do you need some more water while we’re stopped? I might get a little more water, myself. Do you need some more?

B:  It is nice with that ice, though. Keep it cold. I like that. What kind of notes have you got there?

	CH:	I put down some notes last night. We done probably gone over the different things. I put names down and the special people, I already brought those, instilled things within my life, from way back—my mother, father, and then Chester Shell, and Professor Green, and Professor Caffey—that go a long ways with me. And we do have some pictures, different ones, you know, of fish, when we caught big batches of fish. I’ll look up some of those pictures, too.

	B:	Oh, that’d be lovely.



	S:	That would be great. And then we’ll make copies and give you your originals back, and that way we can put them on here, too. That’d be great.

	CH:	All right. I’ll go and start looking for them.



S:   Thank you. And just get back in touch with Shirley or with me about that. We’re so glad to have Shirley working with us now.

	CH:	Well, I’m happy to have met you all and what you’re doing.



B:  Well, thank you so much. I mean we, this is a gift to us that you are sharing your story with us. You have such a long life, and you’re so skilled! You’ve got barber





skills, and you’ve pulp wooded and all; I mean, you’ve done a little bit of everything. Body mechanics.

	CH:	Well, pretty often, different ones come and they tell me, “You don’t remember me?” I say no. And they tell me who they are. And they’ll go on and tell me they name; I still don’t remember them. Then, many of them, “You baptized me!” Then many others, “You married me!” I say, “Oh, no! I ain’t married to you!” [Laughter] But what they are saying, that I conducted the wedding. And I never charged anything for conducting weddings. And I know one of—this a White fellow—a hundred dollars he gave me, and then another some. No, I believe I enjoyed it myself, conducting weddings.

	B:	You feel like that’s your duty.



	CH:	Right. I’m going to look up those pictures of the fish. I’m going to take the pictures of them.

	B:	Or any old photos of Hawthorne, because we’re trying to collect photos of old Hawthorne, and what it used to look like and things.

	S:	And if you bring them in, we’ll photograph them and then give them right back to you.

	JH:	We don’t have any old pictures of Hawthorne. He just had some pictures made of fish he caught.

	S:	Uh-huh. That’s great. Should we start again?



	B:	Yeah. Mine’s been rolling. I know my family took a lot of photos when I was growing up, but I know some people don’t, so it just depends on what kind of equipment you had sitting around to take photos.





	S:	So you had some more stories you wanted to tell us. You have some things ready to tell us or you want us to ask some questions again?

	CH:	Well, ask first, and maybe it’ll come to me.



	S:	Were you at all involved in the turpentine industry? CH:	No I never got involved in the turpentine.

	S:	How about the moss gin. Did you know anything about the moss gin?



	CH:	I know a lot about pulling that moss to make a few dollars. And we had these long poles. And my grandparents lived way back this side of Orange Springs. I had a great big cane break that we, you know, cut them long poles, and we can put a little wire on the end of it and reach up and pull moss. And it’s like a, we get a cent a pound, and the heavy moss you get a little bit more. And there were times where we would pile it up by a lake, and go ahead and keep it watered, where it’d go ahead and die out. And then it gets so we can, you got to dry it out and bale it up. Had a baler, and that’s the way we would come up and sell moss to the moss gin. The moss gin somewhere back over this way burned down, so the last one was back down this side of town.

	B:	Now I’m confused: what is a moss gin, and what does it do? What does it produce?

	CH:	After they fix it up, they would send it somewhere off, and I mean, they had people would pay us for it in bales. And when we come up, even if you didn’t have but a sack full of it, they would give you a few cents for it or what have you. But where they was shipping it, people would make different things out of it. And even, oh, about five, four or five years ago, they had it going again buying moss.





And they were paying up to twenty-some cent a pound, and down at the church where we pastor, a young man tried to get one of my boys to go in with him. And then I found out, maybe two years later, you can’t sell no more. It’s plentiful, the moss, but evidently whatever they were making out of it got where they couldn’t do it anymore.

	S:	Did it have bugs in it when you were pulling it?



	CH:	Some of them have little bugs in. Sometimes you come across wasps’ nestses and what have you. And once in a while we get stung and what have you. But that didn’t hinder us, we pull right on. [Laughter]

	B:	And this is the moss that hangs out of the trees.



	CH:	Yeah, hangs out, and it’s plentiful now. If you could sell it like it was a few years ago, you could make big money. But why they quit buying it, I don’t know.

	B:	So Hawthorne had moss, turpentine, pulp wood, beans, oranges. There was just all sorts of natural things around here that you could sell and make money from.

	CH:	But they don’t have the fruit like we used to after that great big freeze just took everything; that happened way back. So, some of them have come back, but nothing like what it was, I would say, thirty or forty years ago.

	B:	Okay.



	S:	Do you remember anything about Morrison’s mill? That mill, that water mill that’s over there down that road behind what was the chicken factory?

	CH:	I don’t have any information on that.



	S:	Don’t remember that? Okay. What about the Hawthorne brick that they used to make around here somewhere.





	CH:	Yeah, I never did get into that either.



	B:	Do you remember any hurricanes or big storms? We’ve talked about the freezes a little bit, how that affected life. What about hurricanes? Was that a problem?

	CH:	Yeah, that’s been way back, we had some serious problems, but not as bad as what we heard of other places down south and also going west from here. But we’ve had some bad hurricanes. It took down a lot of trees, and even where we passed the church over there—about how many years ago that was? Where they took that little community, the Reese families, about five or six trailers; destroyed all of it. One of our young men, he comes to visit with us now, carried him way up in the air and sit him down way out in a field. And whatever was broken up, he’s doing good now. Wherever he’s living, he be back down to visit with us on and off. But they had to put trailers back out there. That been many years ago now.

	B:	Well I’m sure all the praying in the church helped that. A lot. Because did you guys join up as a community to help him?

	CH:	Oh, yeah, we were pastoring out. We live here in Hawthorne, but that’s where I would pastor, in Marion County, between about Micanopy and Flemington. That’s where our church is.

	S:	That’s at Mount Pedro? CH:	Mount Pedro.

	B:	So did he go to the hospital?



	CH:	Oh, yes. It was a blessing he wasn’t killed, to be taken in the air and about two or three blocks way out in the field and dropped him out there. I’ve forgotten his name. He was there that other Sunday.





	JH:	Yeah, his last name is Reese but I don’t know what his first name. B:	Did the church gather money for him and provide meals and things?

	CH:	Well, that is a part of our mission is to help the needy, and some be in more need than others.

	S:	When you were a child, when you were in Corn Crossing, did you have a garden?

	CH:	My momma overworked keeping the garden, working for us. She’d do overwork, so we had to work in a garden. You name it, and at that time, where my daddy would plant big squash, and always big peanut field. We had a lot of land out there at Corn Crossing. You name it, we had a lot of things out there.

B:  Now, you would’ve lived during the whole Depression, because the stock market crash happened in 1929, and then the Depression years were in the [19]30s. So what was the Depression like?

CH:  I don’t remember any backsets of it; we had plenty to eat, because we had them cows, and there was milk, we had plenty milk, and all the animals and what have you. We didn’t suffer for something to eat.

B:   And your father could find work?



	CH:	Oh, yeah, well he worked at the kaolin mine down there, plus keeping up the farm. He doubleworked.

S:   So what did he do at the kaolin mine?



	CH:	I’m not sure what his duties was there. But I know different times I been down with him lifting them heavy things, and shooting them up and what have you, but I never did want to work down there.





	B:	Well, what did your mother do during the day?



	CH:	Well, she kept plenty housework around, and from there, out there in the field, working right in the field, also.

	B:	So, women as well as men worked in the fields, and worked outside, and worked with the animals, and things like that.

	CH:	Did double work.



	B:	Yeah. That’s a lot of work.



	S:	Miss Jettie, are you from Hawthorne also?



	JH:	I’m from Hawthorne, from Gordon Chapel. I was born in Gordon Chapel. S:	Were your parents from here also?

	JH:	They lived in Gordon Chapel.



	B:	How far is Gordon Chapel from Hawthorne? JH:	Five or six miles. About six miles.

	B:	Is it in Alachua County, or is it in Putnam?



	JH:	Part of it is in west Putnam County. And most of it is in west Putnam County. B:	Oh, so it’s right on the border.

	JH:	Yeah, most of the people who live in Gordon Chapel get their mail on the route from Hawthorne.

	B:	Okay. Well, what was it like growing up in Gordon Chapel?



JH:  Well, we had a nice quiet lifestyle. My mother and father, my father was much older than my mother, and when I came along he was well up in age and she was young. So, I remember her working a lot out of the house. She worked for





different families here in Hawthorne. And we done a lot of field work, working on the farms of other people, picking beans.

	S:	And what else? Anything else?



	JH:	Picking beans, mostly. Or hoeing, if the crop need hoeing before time to gather the crops; hoeing, that sort of thing.

	B:	Well, if you don’t mind me asking, what year were you born? Would you like to share that?

	JH:	I was born in 1931.



	B:	And do you remember, were your parents from here? Were they born in Gordon Chapel?

	JH:	As far as I know—I don’t know where my—I think they were both born near there, if not in Gordon Chapel.

	B:	And did you get to meet your grandparents?



	JH:	I met my grandmother on my mother’s side, but not my grandmother on my father’s side. Because she died in 1911.

	B:	Because your father was a little bit older. Do you remember anything about your grandmother?

	JH:	I remember that she was a nice quiet lady, and she liked sewing and stuff like that. She worked in the fields some too. I don’t remember my grandfather, but I remember her. And she would come to visit us. And her sister was a midwife, I was told that she delivered me.

	B:	So you were probably born in your home. JH:	Yeah.





	S:	What was your home like?



	J:	Well, we had a nice home. I remember my dad, he used to sit and talk with us quite a bit and tell us things, especially—and he would get us around, we had a long table in the dining room, and I would sit next to him, or the baby, whoever the baby was was sitting next to my dad. And would go from the youngest one sitting on this side of my dad until my mother would sit on that side of him. And he was at the head of the table. And he would always pass blessing before we ate. And he wouldn’t start eating until everybody was around the table. He would like for everybody to come to the table to eat. And we had a good family life.

	B:	Did he tell you stories?



	JH:	Sometimes he would tell about things that happened back during the time when he was young, that sort of thing. Most of those stories are gone from me now! [Laughter]

	B:	Well, if you remember any we would love to hear some, about what your father’s memories of the old South were.

	JH:	Well, I can’t remember too many. Now when I was, like before I started school, he would talk to me a lot during that time. And up to about six or seven years old. And then I started school and I had to walk here to Hawthorne from out there, about six miles.

	CH:	Through them woods.



	JH:	Started walking through the woods when I was about six years old. I started walking up here to school, over where Shell school is now. That’s where I had to walk from Gordon Chapel. It’s about six miles.





	B:	Did you have a brother or sister to walk with you?



	JH:	For a while, yes. My oldest brother, who is Shirley’s mother, she started walking up here in [19]37, I believe it was. And after she graduated from high school, she went away. That was, she graduated in 1940. And I was a long way behind her, because she’s ten years older than I am. So, like [19]44 and [19]45, some of those times I had to walk from out there by myself. I had other brothers and sisters, but the younger ones, I had two sisters that’s younger than I am, and one brother. And we moved from Gordon Chapel when I was fifteen. We moved to up here. My dad died in 1946. I was about fifteen years old when he died.

	B:	And how old was he when he died? JH:	He was seventy-seven.

	B:	So he lived a long time.



	JH:	Yeah, he lived to be seventy-seven. Which, well my mother lived to be ninety- seven. She died in [19]99.

	B:	And did she live in Hawthorne until she died?



	JH:	No, she lived in Massachusetts. We moved to Hawthorne after my dad died in [19]46, we moved to Hawthorne. And then in 1950, she moved to Massachusetts. And she lived there until she died. She would come back to visit. And I got married young, we got married. As a matter of fact, we celebrated our 63rd wedding anniversary week before last.

	B:	Oh, congratulations! So tell us how you guys met.





	JH:	Well we were both in high school. We lived in Gordon Chapel, and he lived at Corn Crossing, which was two or three miles, I’d say about three miles from where I lived. So we were childhood sweethearts.

	B:	Do you remember the first time you met?



JH:  Well, we met at school. I was seeing him all the time when we were young. When I first started school, I would see him. But you know, never had any dealings with him or anything. When we met—I was in ninth grade, I guess, when we met. And he was a senior in high school. So he decided he wanted to marry me and not go to college. [Laughter] And so we got married.

B:   Did you get married when you were in high school, or just afterwards?



	JH:	No, I got married before I finished high school. Yeah, I finished after I got married.

	B:	So you both finished high school here in Hawthorne. And then decided to stay.



And so what were you doing while he was working in pulpwood?



	JH:	I was home keeping the children. We had five boys. That kept me busy. They came along close together. But I started, I got a job and went to work. Because when we got married and he started working, he was working for the city of Gainesville, bringing home about twenty-seven dollars a week. And so, that was what we had to live out of. So when I had my last child, when he was two years old, I went to work at what is called Tacachale now. At that time it was Florida Farm Colony. Then it was changed to Sunland Training Center. It was changed to another name, too, but now it’s Tacachale.

	B:	Tacachale? Is that?





	S:	So y’all both worked at Tacachale at the same time.



	JH:	Yeah, I started working before he did because I started working in [19]57. I didn’t go to college either. So I started working in [19]57, and worked until [19]93.

	B:	Rev. Henderson, did you ever join the military or the reserves or anything?



	CH:	The time that I did go, they just had done stopped the war, and I think somewhere in Georgia, I was able to board the train or whatever and get back. I remember instead of coming on home, I stopped by and started picking beans. Must be it was Gainesville where it brought us.

	JH:	Weddington. I don’t know where it brought you from Gainesville.



	CH:	I think it’s up a turn here in Grove Park. Just out there picking beans, and I done been all riding on and rested up. Waiting—I was glad I didn’t go to do no fighting. So I was glad to get back to start picking beans again.

	B:	And that would have been World War II. And they didn’t draft for Korea, right?



There was no draft for Korea.



	JH:	He didn’t have to go then, because he had a family.



	CH:	It was something over there. And didn’t want to go either.



B:  So did you register for the Army or for the military, or did they draft you? CH:  I don’t remember now. I know I did go.

JH:  They drafted him. You know, he had to go and be examined, they were going to take him. But the day before, they must have signed—I think the war ended and they didn’t take him. He went to be examined, but he came back home.

S:   You were lucky!





	B:	So the examination was in Georgia. So you had to take a train to Georgia, be examined, and then they released you. What were you thinking when he got drafted, were you worried?

	JH:	Well, I was worried. I didn’t want him to go. Or course we weren’t married then, but I didn’t want him to go.

	B:	What year did you graduate from high school? CH:	I don’t remember.

	B:	But it was right before the end of the war. JH:	In [19]46.

	B:	So you were still in high school when he went to Georgia? JH:	Mmhm. Yeah.

	B:	And what, I’ve heard a lot about women working during the war, when normally women, before the war people didn’t, I mean, women didn’t really work. But then during the war, women did have to work. You were in high school during that, so—

	JH:	No, I didn’t work. The most—the work that I done was field work until I went to, I worked in a restaurant for a while. A short order cook.

	B:	In Hawthorne?



JH:  Yes, I worked in Hawthorne. They had a truck stop up at, on the other side of the overhead pass at that time. And I worked there for a while, and then I got the job at Sunland, at Tacachale now.

B:  And you worked all the way until 1993, you said. JH:  No, I worked at Tacachale from [19]57 to [19]93.





	B:	And you retired from there. So what was that, was it a trade center where they kind of taught you certain skills?

	JH:	Tacachale? Oh, it’s a institution for, well, it was an institution at the time; they don’t want you to call it “institution” now. But where disabled people live. We called them retarded at that time, but we don’t call them retarded now. Yeah, the mentally retarded, that’s what we would call them, mentally retarded.

B:  And so that’s where you would cut hair, was at Tacachale, which was Sunland Training Center. And so that was an—I don’t want to use the word institution— that was a home for, was it Black and White people all together?

JH:  They integrated—well, they built a facility for Blacks, and they opened it in [19]56.



Yeah, but before then, it was White, for Whites only.



B:  So do you know where, if there were mentally handicapped Black children, or people where would they go?

JH:  They would go out there, they had a separate facility for them.



	B:	Oh, okay. And then in the [19]50s they kind of just started moving, everybody could go in every part.

	JH:	In [19]57 they opened a part for the Blacks, they opened that part. The part for the White was already opened. I think it must have opened back in I guess in [19]21 or [19]22, somewhere back there.

	B:	And then up to 1957, if there was a handicapped Black person, then they would just stay at home?

	JH:	I guess they would stay at home or wherever. I didn’t know of a facility for them around here. But then, in [19]57 they could go out there.





	B:	But still be in a separate wing. And then, do you know when they integrated the whole center?

	JH:	Well they started in the late [19]60s to early [19]70s.



	B:	Was there any controversy around that, or was it just, that they realized that needed to happen?

	JH:	There was some controversy, yes. There was some controversy. There were some people who, there were some Whites who did not want to work with Black children. And there were some Blacks who did not want to work with White children. And some of them resigned. Some of them resigned, and come back and ask for their job back. [Laughter]

	B:	And so if you don’t mind me asking, what were your feelings when they integrated? What were you thinking about?

	JH:	Well, my feelings toward it was that I thought it should be. You know, because they had the facilities there for the others, and I felt like our children deserved to enjoy some of those facilities that they had. Some of those, whatever they had to offer.

	B:	So did the White students have better facilities than the Black wing did?



	JH:	Well, for a long time I was working with the Blacks, and theirs was new. So I felt like they were getting the same treatment. But when they started integrating, what they did at the beginning, well I guess they used me as a guinea pig. One of the guinea pigs! [Laughter] They used three White ladies to come over and work on the Black area, and they used three Blacks to go to the White area. And I got along fine, and most of the, there was one lady resigned that went to the Black





side. She just couldn’t take it! [Laughter] So she went home. And then she came back and asked for her job back.

	B:	And then what about your other two co-workers that came with you to the White side?

	JH:	We all stayed, we stayed over there. Yeah.



	B:	So it seemed like it was easier for the Black workers to work on the White side than it was for the White workers to—

	JH:	Yeah, because they have been working with White children all the time, you know? Because before they started working out there, they were working in the homes of Whites, you know, with their children. So, it was no problem.

	B:	Well, how did integration of schools and things—what was the atmosphere like in Hawthorne when things were integrating, when the federal government said, “This has to happen”?

	JH:	Well, it hasn’t been what I would like to see, you know? I worked with the PTA for a while, and there were some people who were disgruntled. They wanted to cut the PTA out. And they did. They were successful, because they were in the majority. They voted to have a PTO, and finally it went to—well, I stopped going to the meetings after my baby graduated. He graduated in [19]73. And so I just sort of stopped attending the PTA meetings.

	B:	And he graduated from Hawthorne High School? So they were—by that point, Shell was integrated with Hawthorne High School.





	JH:	Uh-huh. They started integrating in the early [19]70s. Well, back in the—they built a new Lincoln High School in Gainesville, but they weren’t integrating when they built it. So, my two oldest sons graduated from Lincoln High School.

	B:	What are their names?



	JH:	Carnell Henderson Jr., but he was the one that was killed in an automobile accident when he was twenty years old. But Roger graduated from Lincoln High School.

	B:	I’m working with the, Dr. Ortiz at UF is doing, he’s teaching a class right now on oral history. And as part of their project, they’re interviewing people who graduated from Lincoln High School. So we got to talk to several Lincoln High School graduates about the community that was at Lincoln High School, and the way they were educated. Because I’ve listened to some of those interviews and it just sounds like a wonderful institution. That they were very big on community, and integrating people as friends, and as community members. And one person described it as, “It wasn’t schooling, it was education.” So they didn’t just teach you math and English and reading; it was also teaching you how to be polite to other people, and courting. He said there was a courting class where men learned how to ask women politely to go on a date and things like that. So he said it was cultural education as well as, you know, the mathematical, and English, and things like that. Was that the way Shell was?

	JH:	No, we didn’t have courting classes as such. [Laughter] So no, we didn’t have that. But it was just, we learned, and the teachers were very adamant about our learning what they were teaching us. And we’d learn. And you know, a lot of





things you don’t learn in school, your parents have to give you a good background before you go to school. Because sometimes, you know, the parents—the children who come from the homes and go to the school with the other children, they just, sometimes it’s not a very good mixture. Because they’re not being taught the same kinds of things, you know.

	B:	Right, the life’s lessons that you learn from living. That makes sense. Well, so was Shell kind of a community? Sort of a point of community for Black people in Hawthorne and the surrounding areas?

	JH:	Well, I think it was. I think it was a kind of community. And when we had PTA meetings, the parents had the chance, it was better relations. It seemed like the school were much better when the parents and the teachers had a good relationship. But nowadays, the teachers and the parents don’t know each other.

	B:	And what you probably heard from your son and from other Lincoln graduates that some Lincoln graduates say segregation was—it was a good thing because it was a way toward equality, but it was also a bad thing because the community at Lincoln fell apart. That once they started busing students to different places, the community that they had built at Lincoln was disintegrated. So there’s some that look on segregation as sort of a painful time—I mean, not just because there was a lot of competition with, new competition with White students, but also because the community fell apart. Does that seem, did you get any of that as the mother of a Lincoln student?

	JH:	Well, I didn’t—they weren’t there that long. They went there for about two years, I guess, three years. And then from [19]67 to—my oldest son graduated in [19]65,





and then the other one graduated [19]67. So, and I didn’t—I didn’t notice that much of a difference.

	S:	Do you have any stories you would like to tell us about Hawthorne?



	CH:	Tell them about that trip you went, and I didn’t know if you going to make it back out of the world, so to speak.

	JH:	She said about Hawthorne, she didn’t mean, you know—



	S:	Well that’s okay, it doesn’t have to be about Hawthorne. Tell us a story.



	JH:	Oh, he just want me to tell you about my travels, maybe. I like to travel and he doesn’t like to travel. He just stays at home. I like traveling, and I’ve been attending the Baptist World Alliance. And it’s held every five years in different countries. He must be talking about the time I went to South America.

	B:	Where did you go in South America?



	JH:	Argentina. Went to Buenos Aires. And I enjoyed it. We went on tours as well while we were there. Got a chance to see some of the country, went up on a high mountain, and looked over at the Andes Mountains, snow-covered Andes Mountains. It was real cold, it was in August when we went down there. Went the last of July and first part of August, and it was real cold.

	B:	Because that’s the winter down there, because it’s the opposite as here.



	JH:	That Wednesday we were there, it was three degrees below zero. It was very cold. But we enjoyed the trip.

	S:	What year was that?



	JH:	That was in [19]90? Yeah. Was it in [19]90? Yeah. In [19]95, we went to Australia.





	B:	Were you in Sydney or in Melbourne?



	JH:	The meeting was in Melbourne, but we went to Sydney. Toured that big music hall. The opera house.

	B:	World famous. Did you like Melbourne or Sydney more? There’s kind of a rivalry between the two.

	JH:	Oh, yeah. Well, we actually were visiting in Sydney, but I went to the meeting.



And most of the times, the individuals were in the meetings that I attended, and I didn’t tour that much. But I did in Melbourne. I went to this big open house flea market that’s supposed to be the biggest flea market in the world. I attended that. But the meetings were real good.

	B:	So Rev. Henderson, why don’t you like to travel? CH:	It’s just not for me. It’s stressful.

	B:	Do you have a fear of airplanes, or is it just that you like Hawthorne? CH:	I just love Hawthorne.

	JH:	Yeah, he loves Hawthorne. He tells me I can go if I want to, but he’s going to stay home. So I wanted to go, and he let me go. And I went.

	S:	Rev. Henderson, what would be your wish for Hawthorne for the future?



	CH:	I’m just wishing that the community itself, Black and White, will get closer and closer together. And that the churches can get together. And that will eliminate a whole lot of this drug activity, but you got so many people in the churches promoting it. It’s a great conflict. Even down in Marion County where our church is. Up here, I’m overly concerned about—but I’m happy about the young man that’s pastoring my home church, Galilee, now. He’s a great young man, and





he’s a drawing card. And a lot of the people that had left, they done come back. But I’m overly committed. Can’t meet with all of those that we have down there and all the meetings that they have. And with a lot of ailments I have now. And at times, I can do good. And then, with a leaking heart valve, I need to lay down maybe a hour, sometime two hours. And I call it getting my battery built up. When the doctor told me, not long ago I was back from one doctor to the other, all of them said the same thing: do just what I been doing. But said, but now, don’t want me to overdo it. But to be active. So, I call it not the way out, rust out. But iron rusts out. So a whole lot of things I can do just sitting down, but I can’t do but a mighty little walking. Can’t pick up like I used to, and not going to even try anymore. But a lot of things I can do.

	B:	You can still climb ladders, and pick oranges, and—



	CH:	On those Chinese honey, in this Christian grove, I can sit down. I ain’t found no other grove like that one. Where you can just reach up and pick them. Even just sitting down, having a pillow or even just sit right down on the ground. I enjoy that, too, and a lot of things I can do sitting down, but I can’t do very much— mighty little walking. Get exhausted.

	B:	And you can still fish.



	CH:	Oh, yeah. Well that been over a year ago now, one of my doctors had all that different medication, then changing up, and don’t be using but a little bit of it. So the doctor changed it. I got different doctors now: my primary doctor and my heart specialist, and my cancer—see, I’ve had cancer for years. Been surgery, radiation. And well, way back, when I first had cancer, prostate gland, and they





gave me surgery. Then, doing good. Way later on, a recurrence came back. And I wanted to know how did they need to take out prostate gland, and done had surgery. They say, no, they didn’t take it out, but they had surgery. Then, out of this time, they resorted to radiation. And my wife, on one of her trips when I was doing good enough where I could take and go myself to the radiation. And so since that time, that’s when they found I had a leaking heart valve. A lot of ailments, but I’m still here, and still able to do a lot of things.

	B:	Sure are!



	S:	What about you, Miss Jetta? What is your wish for Hawthorne area?



	JH:	I’d like to see better unity in the community. Maybe if we come together in unity together, we can do something to fight the drugs. That seem to be the worst problem in our community today is the drug. And we have so many young people just seemingly just going astray. And nothing is being done to stop them from going astray.

	B:	Where do you think that came from, that, in your generation children were working and they were not doing drugs, were not drinking moonshine, and then today, there is a problem with drugs. Where do you think, what happened that changed that?

	JH:	Well, I think—well, money is the root of all of it. There are a lot of people seeming that they can’t do with less anymore. Back when we, if we had food to eat and clothes to wear—and not a whole lot of clothing—we were happy then. But now seems like we just continue to buy, buy, buy. Can’t get enough buying. The closets are full, and they’re buying right on. And people are working hard,





working at two or three jobs, when they could work at one job and take care of the family. But the family’s not willing to live on less. They want more. The more the children want—and they need quality time, the children need quality time.

And they don’t get that, the television most of the times is entertaining the majority of the children who are home, you know. And they need parents to sit down and talk to them. The children do.

	B:	And the parents have to be home in order to do that.



	JH:	That have to be home. And the parents are not at home. And it makes it awful.



	B:	I don’t want to sound racist or anything here, but do you find that to be in general that that’s way families are today, or is that the Black community?

	JH:	Well, I’m not, it’s in both communities that parents leave the children, you know.



And both of them need their parents to spend more time, the Black and the Whites need the parents to spend more time with them. Because there are a lot of rich people, so far as that go, Black and White, that they don’t really raise their children; somebody else raise them for them.

	B:	So it’s an issue of parenting and family time. And you said that your family always spent a lot of around the dinner table, you always ate together, your father talked to you; so that’s a big difference that you see. And you’re a grandmother?

	JH:	Great grandmother.



	B:	So is that something that you work with your children to teach how to raise their children the way that you would have raised them?





	JH:	Unfortunately, most of my grandchildren are away from me. I have grandchildren in Massachusetts, Ohio, California. I have one granddaughter here that has children and she doesn’t live in Hawthorne. And I visit with her children. Now, they joined the church where my husband used to pastor down in Marion County. And I see them on Sundays, and sometimes they come to visit. But so far as helping to raise them, I haven’t been close enough to them to help raise them.

	B:	Do you think that’s also a change, is that there—because the world is becoming so mobile, you know, people are able to move and travel and things like that, that the role of grandmothers is less? You had your grandmother in your life.

	JH:	Yeah, I had my grandmother. But, well, she didn’t—you know, we lived a good ways apart. Not over walking difference, we could walk to each other’s houses. But I stayed at home most of the time. And when she came to visit us, we had good relationship. But some grandparents nowadays end up having to raise their grandchildren. You know?

	B:	I have one more question. Obama got elected. Was that something that you ever thought you’d see in your life, is to have a Black president?

	JH:	Well, I was hoping to have one. But I’m disappointed that he’s being treated the way that he’s being treated. And I think a lot of times, maybe, it seems that some people rather for the world to go down the drain than to have a Black president. I don’t know if that’s the real feeling or not, but that’s the way it seems, you know? And it make you wonder. But I feel like if there’s somebody in there that’s doing the job, whoever it is, I can accept them. I’m glad that we have a Black president,





but we need somebody to run the country regardless of the color. Because the person who’s in office is administering to all the people, all the colors, you know?

	B:	What was going on in your household during the election process, when McCain and Obama were coming head to head in those last final days of the runoff. What was going on in the—the conversations you were having, and the atmosphere?

	JH:	Well, we didn’t have that much of a conversation. We just said that we hoped that he would win, you know? We hoped that Obama would win. And he did win. But we must realize that we have one over Obama: that’s God. God is in control, and He rules—He made the heaven and the earth, and He rules. And we have to not just look to the president to bring peace; we have to look to God for the peace.

Because it’s not coming from the president. No president, whether it be Obama or whoever, they not going to be able to bring peace. And I don’t think we going have peace as long as people are not turning to God.

	B:	Are there any other things that you’d like to include in the interview that we maybe didn’t ask about? Any stories, or memories of Hawthorne or Florida, or different stories that you can remember?

	JH:	Well, I like Florida. And I like Hawthorne. I love Hawthorne. This is my home. And I’ve been to a lot of other places, and I would not like to live in any of those other places as much as I would like living in Hawthorne.

	S:	That’s wonderful. Well do you have—both of you, I would like to ask each of you this question: what words or wisdom or advice would you like to pass on to future generations? Do you have anything, this’ll be something that your children,





grandchildren, great grandchildren, and a lot of other people will see. Do you have any words of wisdom?

	CH:	I been confronting different ones about the basic thing is to have a foundation, and that comes directly from the words that Jesus left. “Honor thy father, thy mother,” that’s good, all of that is good. But when it come to “thou shalt love the lord our God with all our hearts, soul, mind and strength, then they neighbor as thyself,” and to me that’s the foundation right there. And so, the basic thing is that love, irrespective of race, creed, or color; even love your enemies. Now, that’s not easy, but love. And you can’t make nobody, but at least you set an example for them, and when it come to that love, that goes all the way and no color at all. And hasn’t been long ago that they want me to explain about, you can’t even mention about, you can love and hate at the same time. They say, “No, that’s not Bible.” I say, “Yes it is, I’m coming directly from the Bible, because God loved the sinner, but he hate the sin. And that’s at the same time.” And so we love a person, but we can hate their ways of their behavior, what have you, and we have on our wall, which is where we have different things on the wall, and that is, “Love”—almost said it, it got away from me. Oh! “Watch over one another in brotherly love.” I mean many cases I uses that, but I need you, you need me: that means, what the meaning of that is that, when I’m up, you up. When I’m down, you down. And you’re bound together by a four-letter word. And that mean, that we all need to love, but we need one another. And if we do our part, no shortness on the Lord’s part. If there’s something looking for the Lord to do, there are times He answers in three different ways. Sometimes you pray and ask Him to do this,





that, and the other for you, and well, yeah, sometime He do it right then and there. Then sometime, He’s not denying it, but you got to wait on it. Well, what you do while waiting? You still trust in Him. While you waiting, trust in Him, don’t lose your trust, because going by the Bible wait on the Lord, be of good cause, he shall strengthen thine heart, say, wait I say on the lord. And some of them confront him and, why did this happen? Such as all of this killing or whatever, and this destruction, why? We don’t have the answer. God is in control, He’s the only one that could. He permits certain things on His permissive will. And all of this suffering, if He see fit, he can do it. When it come to the healing, we got so many people beating people out of money because I don’t heal yet. Well, I know God is the only one that can bring the healing. But now, while you waiting, you trust in Him. And if He say, “Now look at”—I brought that about so many time, look at the greatest missionary that the world has ever known. That was Saul.

Now he’s Paul, you know, he used that other name. So he thought that we can man that did all of these things, and now he had to pay off for them things, with him having all of that suffering or what have you, itemize a whole lot of things he’s going through with, and he told the Lord, “Lord, I want to you to move this thorn in my flesh, but it bothers me all the time. Since it’s bothering me, Lord I know you can, I want you to move it.” Went to the Lord. Now, every church I gone to where they singing song “Jesus would never say no,” that’s misleading. He said no sometimes. Therefore when he said “No, I’m not going to do it, but what my grace is sufficient.” And it was kind of comical and our outreach minister just tell them, “Well, you know what?” I say, “Yeah, you go ahead and speak; I





had a thorn in my flesh ever since I got married! But the Lord is able, and he say no sometime. That mean that no, and always will be no, I’m not going to move, but don’t lose your trust.” What we call it, trying times will come. And look at Job: the richest man that ever—look at what all he lost, lost all of his possessions, worldly possessions, then his wife turned her back on him, saying, “Curse God and die.” He said, “When I was up, I praised him. Now I’m down, I’m going to still praise him. I know that my Redeemer lives and the latter day, that’s the last day, I’m going to trust him as long as I live.” Say, “I know.” And look what God repaid him double what he had lost, but he trusted, not losing his trust in God. That go for all of us: never lose your trust in God. We know that he can do it, but so far as if you pray, don’t excuse God’s will. We have for praying, you demand the Lord, you don’t demand the Lord to do something and do it right, now. But say, “Please lord, if it’s your will, you do it. If it’s not your will, just help me to endure and go through.” He didn’t promise that you wouldn’t have these afflictions. Everybody is afflicted, one way or the other. You can name a whole lot of afflictions that come upon you, but as long as you trust in the Lord, the Lord will have you to endure.

And everybody want to win, you want to be on the winning side, not just on the Lord’s side today and then the Devil’s side tomorrow. Just stay on the Lord’s side.

	B:	Well, was there ever a time in your life that you felt was so trying that you felt that those words were in your mind and you thought, “This was what’s going to get me through this.”





	CH:	Kind of worked in part, but after thinking over it and meditating on it, God’s will must be done. And if we just endure, say weep and moan, weeping may abide for the night, when it’s at night, that mean the negative thing, the bad and evil and mean thing. Say weep and moan, but morning, trust in the morning will come. In the morning, joy, that unspeakable joy, comes in the morning. Never lose your trust in God. That’s what we need more now; we got too many over gods, idol gods; that bottle is somebody’s god; sexual; you find all of this little children, it’s dangerous to even entrust them in somebody else, caretakers or what have you. How in the world? And then, I believe today I read a little bit—my eyes are running water I can’t read much, where the man, if I’m not mistaken, killed his wife, shot his wife, and I believe three or four others he killed. Have you read? Was that in today’s paper? Because he killed his wife.

	JH:	And three members of his family.



	CH:	Three or four others; that’s every time you look at the paper, you see maybe a little bit of good news, or the television. All this negative, how a human being can do this to another human being. Not getting better, that’s getting worse.

	S:	How about you, do you have any words of wisdom for us to put on the tape? JH:	Well, the only thing I can say is, “Love conquers all,” so we can put God first,

because God is love.



	B:	I think that’s an excellent way to end. S:	I think so too, thank you very much.

	B:	Thank you both so much, for participating in this. CH:	Thanks for accepting us.





[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Richard Brust, December 16, 2015 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, September 19, 2017 Final edited by:	Ryan Morini, February 18, 2019