AAHP 437; Hunter; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 437 Johnny Hunter African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Vickie Oldham on October 19, 2015 53 minutes | 29 pages



Abstract: Johnny Hunter talks about growing up in Sarasota. He joined the Air Force. When he got out, he formed a motorcycle club called “The Wheels of Sarasota.” He served eight and a half years at the Florida State Prison for selling drugs, which he maintains was a false charge. In prison, he started writing a newspaper column about prison, which led him to the newspaper business after he was released.



Keywords: [African American History; Sarasota, Florida; Marianna, Florida; Florida State Prison; “The Wheels of Sarasota”; United States Air Force]





















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 437 (Newtown Oral History Project) Interviewee: Johnny Hunter

Interviewer: Vickie Oldham Date: October 19, 2015



	O:	Today is Monday, October 19th and I am sitting here with—what is your name? H:	Johnny Hunter Sr.

	O:	Johnny Hunter Sr. give me your birthdate and where you were born.



	H:	Birthday August the 10th, 1948. I was born in Sarasota, Florida, sixty-seven years ago at Sarasota Memorial Hospital.

	O:	Tell me about your parents, who are they?



	H:	My mother is name is Mary Elizabeth Hunter. My father name was named John Henry McElroy. My mother moved to Sarasota in 1945 from Crestview, Florida where her family roots are from Crestview, Pensacola, all up in the panhandle and Alabama area.

	O:	What about your dad?



	H:	My dad was from Marianna, Florida. O:	And what brought him here?

	H:	He was already here when my mother got here. He was here prior to her being here.

	O:	Okay now did you say why your mom came?



	H:	Well yes, she came to Sarasota, Florida with her sister-in-law, the late Ruby Hunter. They moved from—she was from Crestview, Florida but at the time she was living in Florala, Alabama which is eighteen miles north of Crestview, just like Palmetto is from Sarasota.

	O:	Okay so she came basically to be with her sister?





	H:	Well no, her sister-in-law. They moved here, they were doing domestic work at the Terrace Hotel. At the time the Boston Red Sox were spring training here in Sarasota, Florida and they lived in the Terrace Hotel and they came here working as domestic workers.

	O:	Do you know they happened to secure those jobs at the Terrace?



	H:	No I don’t, back then everything was segregated. As you know Colored only water fountains, Colored-only waiting rooms, and Colored-only—I don’t have no clue. My mother passed away November the 24th, 1996. My father passed away July the 24th 1985.

	O:	Tell us where the Terrace Hotel was located if you remember.



	H:	In the same location it’s at now, only they had the tag office there, the Supervisor of Election. That building still remain the same. It just changed the purpose. It was a hotel at that time but now it’s a government building.

	O:	Okay what are your earliest remembrances of the town that you were born in? H:	It was a great town initially we stayed what we call “Overtown,” right now

McOwen Towers is at, that’s my first recollection staying in Sarasota. We stayed that was called “Overtown.” At that particular time and then we moved from there on Mango Avenue, right down the road from here where Steven’s Funeral Home used to be, where Reverend Mays church is at, they had some housing, little housing complex right next to that church. I think it was called Bethel something. Like I said I was like five, six, seven years old at that time.

	O:	What caused you all to leave Overtown? Do you remember?





	H:	I don’t remember, I guess basically because of better housing situation we moved there and then in 1957, I think, we moved to where Wade Thomas church is at now, across from old Eddy’s Fruit Stand. The late Reverend Floyd which is was pioneer in this town, which started James Floyd along with others Nursing Home which is name is now changed, but he was a builder, he was a carpenter owned a lot of property and apartments and houses and that nature. And we rented, me and my mother rented a house from him at that particular time until 1959 from probably [19]57 to [19]59 way on Goodrich Avenue. They started what they called the first addition to Newtown Heights. That area used to be called “Black Bottom.” It was a very, very, very dense area with woods and stuff and we used to walk through there going to high school, going to school, Booker Elementary School. And then at that time they came along with a federal program, the federal housing administration purchased that land over there and start building housing. They called it the first addition to the Newtown Heights and we moved there December 1959, when I was eleven years old and currently still own the house.

	O:	What did you do for fun as a kid?



	H:	We had all kind of fun. We had the recreation center which is now known as Robert Taylor. We used to go down there play horseshoes, ping pong, shuffle board. They built the swimming pool. They did not want African Americans to go to the beaches in Sarasota so they built us a swimming pool. But the civil leaders at that time, the late Mr. Humphrey, Neil Humphrey and others, they still fought for us to integrate the beaches, which we ultimately was still able to go to the





beach. And we had a swimming pool as well. So we did swimming, we did horseshoe playing, like I said shuffle board, ping pong, baseball. The late Ford— well I’m sorry he’s not passed, he does have Alzheimer’s now and he’s not doing well—but he volunteered his time. He was from Huntsville, Alabama, he married a local lady here, Connie Mosby mother. And he used to handle the baseball, little league baseball and the Babe Ruth League, for the Pony League at the time it was called. And he was working for Florida Power and Light and then in the afternoons, after he got off from Florida Power and Light, he’ll come down and work with us kids. In fact, the gymnasium that’s at Robert Taylor facility now is named in his honor, the Edell Ford Gym. So it was a lot of fun. We used to shoot robins. We had a lot of wooded and dense areas so we had bb guns and so used to get a lot of fun in shooting the robins and cooking them or sell them. And we used to have bicycles that we used to ride, two speed Schwinn bicycles, then they had the three speed gear. It was just a lot of fun. We used to play marbles. Used to play hopscotch. It was just a lot of fun. It’s a whole different ball game now.

	O:	People talk about the families that were here, the prominent families and the churches. You want to talk about those families that you recall?

	H:	Yeah well basically all the teachers that taught at Emma E. Booker Elementary School or Amaryllis Park and Booker High School, lived in the Newtown area. They lived on Goodrich, most of them lived on Noble Avenue. In fact, Reverend Dupree which was the principal of Booker High School when I graduated 49 years ago, he stayed across the street from me. So it was very closely knitted





neighborhood. You had like Jerome Stevens, the funeral directors, Charlie Jones which was very prominent electrician and plumper in the area, Neil Humphrey and it just a close knitted neighborhood. Like I said, all the teachers and the who’s who stayed in the Newtown area.

	O:	And that made a difference in the lives of the kids and parents?



	H:	Made a tremendous difference. It was closely knitted. And I think basically we really didn’t want any integration, all we wanted was equal funding to purchase the books that we wanted, that we needed but unfortunately, we was given the hand-me-down books after the school board budgeted for new books and stuff, they budgeted for Sarasota High and Riverview, and they passed down their old books at Booker High School.

	O:	So you did attend the Booker Complexes all of them.



	H:	Oh yes, when I graduated from High School June the 5th 1966, everything was still segregated in Sarasota. In fact, the first McDonalds in the state of Florida was in Sarasota, Florida across from Sarasota Memorial Hospital which is now I think a Pizza Hut is there now. And after I finished High School, I went to the United States Air Force but I still had to go to the back door. We couldn’t go into public facilities.

	O:	You mean the back door of the McDonalds?



	H:	Yes, to order anything. You couldn’t go inside of McDonalds back in 1966.



	O:	Share with me some other experiences like that, that people will find very odd today.





	H:	Everything was like that. Newtown community was a very thriving community, so we used to have a lot of fun then when they did start the integration process. And that’s kinda like dissimilated the closeness of the Black communities because people start moving out and instead of improving their own neighborhoods, they felt that once they got a certain economic level, they wanted to move. But I always felt that you needed to improve your own neighborhoods.

	O:		We’re gonna talk about your vision for Newtown’s future later on in this conversation but tell us about your military service.

	H:	Well I went to the United States Air Force when I was eighteen years old. And I stayed there for four years. Honorably discharged from the Air Force. I was what they call a “70250” which was administrative, especially worked for the basic commanding squad and the commanders and all the folks that really run the Air Force. Administrative people run the Air Force. They give the orders for other folks to do things.

	O:	Did you serve around the world?



	H:	Been an only child. Let me state, as you stated, I was the only child that my mother had, I was not the only child that my father had. So being a only child and sole surviving son, I tried to volunteer to go to Bangkok, Thailand back in 1966 and [19]67 but they said—and that was a combat zone—they needed a person to assist in running the post office over in Bangkok, Thailand. That was the career field administrative, I could work in any military facility in the United States or overseas. And I tried to volunteer but they said because I was a sole surviving son and only child, the Air Force or the Department of Defense at that time had a





policy that they would not send those individuals in the combat zone. So I was not able to go. So I was in Boston, Massachusetts at that time and it was just too cold up there being a Floridian all my life. I kept on working it until I was able to get a transfer to MacDill Air Force Base over in Tampa.

	O:		Do you remember any other of the men from Newtown who served in the Air Force with you or served in the military?

	H:	Yes, quite a few people. My best friend, Irvine Pete Gillam and I went to the Air Force on the buddy plan. We went to the Air Force together. The late Leonard Butler with his hairs. The late William Walter Jenkins, Earnest Haines, most of those guys are dead now but Pete is not passed away. Like I said, we went on the buddy plan and we left Sarasota, went to Miami. We was supposed to went to Lackland Air Force Base for basic training which he did, but because of the Vietnam War at that time you had a lot of draft doggers, you had a lot of people volunteering to go to the Air Force and the Navy and the Army and the Marines were drafting folks. They didn’t draft in the Air Force and in the Navy. I initially wanted to go to the Navy but unfortunately the Navy told me that they wouldn’t let no new recruits in until the following year which was in 1967 and I didn’t want to wait that long. So I had a first cousin that had been in the Air Force for six years at that particular time from 1960 to [19]66. And he was in Paris and Germany and he loved it so I said, “Well if I can’t go to the Navy now, I’ll go to the Air Force.” So that’s how I ended up in the Air Force.

	O:	Now this buddy plan, how did that work?





	H:	Two buddies they would guarantee if you went in on the buddy plan you would go to basic training together and y’all would stay together while you were in the Air Force but it didn’t work that way. I call that the bait-and-switch. They bait you in, then they switched out on us.

	O:	What do you mean? They broke you up?



	H:	They broke us up. Like I said when we went to Miami he went to San Antonio, Texas to Lakeland Air Force Base and I went to Amarillo Air Force Base in Amarillo, Texas. After then he was a fireman, he went to Battle Creek, Michigan and I went to New Bedford Air Force Base right out of Boston, the city of Boston, Massachusetts. And he stayed there. The whole while, after he finished his fireman training, he stayed in Battle Creek, Michigan the entire while. And the late Lonnie Ward. Lonnie and I was very good friends also, he was out in Texas so the Air Force got what you call a AUTOVON line, you could call any military instillation in the world and talk to anybody that you want to talk to. So Lonnie and I had each other’s numbers so we called each other and stuff of that nature. And other folks they had a directory of the Air Force Base there. Say for instance if my friends were worried, so we used to talk. It was a lot of fun.

	O:	I see, let’s move on to what happened after you left the military.



	H:	Well after I left the military, I almost reenlisted. I really wanted to be a jet engine mechanic and at the time basically what had the Air Force needs. They needed administrative people more than they needed more jet engine mechanics. So they put me there. They told I could cross train; they were gonna allow me to cross train to be a jet engine mechanic if I reenlist but I decided to get out. So,





when I got out—well first of all I took the postal examination before I got out there for a project called “Project Transition.” That was at downtown Tampa but it was on the Air Force Base there, MacDill in Tampa. So we would have classes on the base and then when we got ready to take the postal exam, we would go downtown to the post office in Tampa. So and then also they had a great need for firemen. They had a great need for policemen. I almost considered being a policeman at that particular time, when I was twenty-two years old. And I decided well I didn’t want to be a policeman and didn’t want to be a fireman. So I was gonna work for the Post Office but at the time the only thing they could guarantee was during the Christmas holidays as we approaching now, eight or nine days and after the eight or nine days, they couldn’t guarantee that they would give you anything. By this time, I was married and my wife had two kids prior to our marriage and she had twin children from me. So, we facing four kids, myself and her and I didn’t need a part-time job, I needed a full-time regular job. So after then I always had a fondness for automobiles when I was a younger guy. In fact, my mother bought me a car when I was going to tenth grade going to Booker High School. I had a [19]59 Pontiac Catalina. That was a big thing back in then, Pontiac Catalina with air condition so I was a sixteen-year-old with a car going to school. And so we used to do a lot of little street racing with our cars and stuff out there are Myrtle Avenue and in Tallevast and actually out there on Seventeenth Street when they had moved the—when I was growing up the city dump was right there which was very controversial called “The Brown Field.” That was the city dump when I was a little boy and then they eventually moved it on





Seventeenth Street and so we used to out there and do a lot of drag racing and stuff too. But any rate, so I decided that the Post Office, I could never get a full- time regular job so I had a opportunity so I when I got out the Air Force I went to Manatee Vo Tech. I wanted to be a plumber but like every time I wanted to be something it was filled up so we went to Manatee Tech to be a plumber, that class was filled up. So I said, my friend and I Pete Gillman—by this time he got out the Air Force the same time I did because we went in the same—so he and I went to Manatee Tech to be auto mechanics. So we enrolled in that class there and finished the automotive class. And then I worked for the late Willie Williams, the Williams Shell Station was a Shell station where the Sonoco Station is at now. And I was his manager. So back in 1973—I got out the service in [19]70 so I’d done that for about three years and the late Asa Jenkins owned a service station called “Union 76 Station.” The Jenkins family brother, Herbert Jenkins, they had the grocery store next door and they brother Lawrence was the butcher back there and then they had the service station next door. And they had a garage, an auto repair garage that the late Henry Jones used to be back there. So in 1973 the Post Office finally called me and offered me a full-time clerk job if I would move to Ft. Lauderdale because that was one of the areas I told them I would move. I remember the late Jeannie J. Poe, which a legend in Sarasota, Lewis Harvey and I was one of her favorite students as well—two of her favorite students. I would think Henry Porter is probably her all-time favorite student because I knew that when she passed that he would probably do the eulogy and that’s the way it happened. But any rate, we used to drive, we used to be her





chauffeur, we were fourteen, fifteen years old with restricted license back then you could get your restricted driver’s license at fourteen and anybody with a operator license could be with you. So Ms. Poe naturally had her operator license but she was the elderly lady at that particular time. So Lewis and I used to chauffeur her around so she asked our parents could we take her to Ft.

Lauderdale and she would be responsible for us because they had a church convention. You know she was a member of Bethlehem Baptist Church.

Bethlehem Baptist Church was the first Black church in Sarasota. And so we went to Ft. Lauderdale as fourteen, fifteen-year-old kids and I was excited about Ft. Lauderdale in [19]64 and [19]65 and I said that I could probably live down there and that was one of the reasons why I put that in my request that I wouldn’t mind moving to if I had to. So they finally offered me a full-time job. And so at that time I talked to my wife, which was the late Clayomie Hunter, she was a nurse.

And I decided, she asked me what did I want to do. I said, “The truth of the matter, I always wanted to be self-employed ever since I was ten years old. I knew I wanted to be self-employed so I’m living my dream.” And so I said, “No I don’t want to take it.” I said, “If I ever wanted a government job, I could have stayed in the Air Force,” ‘cause that’s the government. So I turned it down and she said, “Okay if you don’t want to go, don’t go.” So I didn’t. So at the time I was still managing Williams Shell and he had three businesses at that time: he had the Shell station, he was first Black to have a car lot right downtown on Ringling Boulevard next to what was called at that time Gulf Coast Auto Repair. I think the Timelton Foundation is housed in that area now, downtown on Ringling. And





plus it’s by Richmond Construction was the big construction company back then. And so his wife and them had a contract with Richmond Construction to clean up, to finish new houses to get them ready for occupancy. And so I told him if he gave me a raise I’d stay with him, if not I was gonna have to leave. So at the time he said he couldn’t give me a raise, I said, “Well nice working for ya.” And at the time Henry Jones had passed away and I used to work at Asa’s. My senior in high school I used to play basketball, I was on the basketball team at Booker.

And then I decided I didn’t want to play basketball anymore and so in twelfth grade I got a part-time job working after school working at Asa’s Service Station, Jenkins’ Service Station. And so when they came available for rent, I talked to him about it and he told me—again the rent at the time wasn’t about fifteen dollars a week. This was back in 1973. So I went on and went and opened up that garage, it was called “Johnny’s Auto Repair” and I had a towing service ‘cause Williams had two tow trucks at the time and he sold me one of the tow trucks and I had a very good business at the time from [19]73 to [19]75.

	O:	Okay. Tell me about at what time did you have that brush with the law? And why?

	H:	Okay yeah. In 1974 we formed a motorcycle—no it wasn’t in [19]74. I’m sorry. It was in 1972, we formed a motorcycle club we called it “The Wheels of Sarasota.” Richard Camel was the president, Ed James was the Secretary, and I was the treasurer and we used to travel around the state of Florida, Georgia and Alabama racing motorcycles. In Miami in Labor Day, I think it was [19]72 or [19]73 around Labor Day, I met a guy. We was down there racing our





motorcycles and I met a guy named Clellan Tyson, the used to call him Pepper. He’s since passed away about a year ago now. And Cornelius Hicks was a tremendous motorcycle rider. So we was really kicking but down there in Miami at that time. So the buy Pepper, he was from St. Petersburg called the Sun Daddy a club down there called “The Sunshine Skyway Motorcycle Club.” And so he start hanging with us down there and so we exchanged greetings and things and told him who he we was and so he eventually started coming from St.

Petersburg to Sarasota to my garage. We used to have a motorcycle meeting. We used to have big buckets of crabs and stuff. Back then you can get a dozen of crabs for two dollars a dozen which is unheard of now. In fact, they had a place in Tampa when I was stationed at MacDill, they had a place a Tampa called “Willie Crab Stop,” you could buy a dozen of big crabs for three dollars and they give a dozen of small crabs for free. And I used to have a trunk full of crabs coming home from the Air Force Base. But any rate, what had happened, this guy was a heroin dealer and he was telling about it and I told him, “No I don’t want to do that man.” I said, “They’ll give you a hundred years for that” [Laughter]. So I kept on, kept on, so he kept hanging around ‘cause at the time I was dating a young lady named Brenda Hicks and she had sister named Karen Hicks. And so he would start dating Karen and stuff and so we start hanging around. And I’ll never forget this, we was in Columbus, Georgia, up there Columbus, Georgia, Phoenix, Alabama, all that right there all together race track. And we was up there racing our motorcycle and he was racing his motorcycle and he had an accident. And so we ran out there on the track to make sure he





wasn’t seriously injured. And then no he wasn’t injured, he always had a funny grin, or laugh rather, and so he was okay. Then he had a lot of money in his pocket and I said, “Boy what you doing with all this money here?” He said, “I’ve been trying to tell you to come get some of this money.” I said, “Man I told you I don’t want to do that man.” I said, “I don’t want to do that.” But as the scripture said, “Bad association corrupts good morals.” If you hang around the kitchen long enough, you gonna start eating the food. So I shouldn’t have never hung around the kitchen. But I was hanging around the kitchen. And so I was thinking about it on the way back from Columbus, Georgia and I thought about it. And what had happened also, I had a small business loan through the SBA. It wasn’t about for ten thousand dollars at that time. This was back in [19]73. And of course I was still legally married but I was separated but was still legally married. And so the SBA had approved me for the ten thousand dollars which they guaranteed 90 percent of it if you default on the loan. They would make sure 90% of it was returned to the lender. And so at that time I had a John Hancock insurance policy that the late Leonard Butler was the first salesman for John Hancock after we got out the Air Force. All of us went to the Air Force, he went earlier, but he got out on a hardship discharge and he start being a John Hancock insurance salesman which was a very lucrative job at that time back in [19]73. And so at the time I was approved so the guy told me it was Citizen Bank, it used to be Enterprise Bank down there now, right across from the old Social Security Office, the bank as you to Orange Avenue right there that red light? That area there was called “Citizen Bank.” So the guy told me that because I was still legally married, my





wife had to sign off on the deal. I said, “Well she not gonna sign off on the deal because we’s legally married but we separated and pending divorce.” Which we ultimately did get a divorce. And so he say he couldn’t help me. So I really got upset about that. I learned a long time ago that they can do anything they want to do, if they want to do it. Because I told the banker one time, when I was getting the loan to buy a car and we was a couple thousand dollars off the deal from the dealership to what they wanted. And I went to the bank, I said, “Now you the bank president.” I said, “You can give a million-dollar loan right now without a committee approval on your own signature.” He said, “Yeah.” I said, “I don’t want a million dollars, I just want two thousand dollars.” He smiled and told me he’d cut me a check. So I’m saying they do what they want to do. But at the time they wouldn’t do it and so I was upset about that. And then I thought about what the guy had told me and I went ahead. Now I was advised by several guys that said, “Man you too nice a guy, this is not for you.” But I was looking at the opportunity to get funding to expand my business because I was turned down because of the fact that I was still legally married but separated. So that’s how I got started with that.

	O:	How did you get caught?



	H:	Well they didn’t really catch me. They said that I sold a drugs to an informant. He’s since passed away here about less than six months ago. Someone killed him down in Miami they saying. But they said that the drugs that I allegedly sold this informant, the chemist department in Tampa was broken into and the drugs that I supposedly sold along with other drug cases was missing. ‘Cause I wanted





to confront my accuser. I was gonna hire my own chemist to analyze the drugs because I know I didn’t sell no drugs. Well see what they wanted, they told me that what they wanted was where I was getting my supply of drugs from and if I cooperated with them they would give me ten years. And I told them they had brought the weakest game to the strongest man. They said, “Well if you don’t cooperate, we gonna give you one hundred five years.”

	O:	105 years?



	H:	They gave me one hundred five years. They charged me with seven counts of possession and sales of heron which each one of those terms carries fifteen years and by me not cooperating—I took it to trial and I lost the trial and they gave me seven, fifteen year sentences running consecutive which meaning was totaled one hundred five years.

	O:	How long did you serve though? H:	Eight and a half years of that.

	O:	Okay.



	H:	I went to prison. I got sentenced March 14th, 1975 to 105 years. I left and went to prison March 17th. It’s ironic I was honored this past March the 14th at Bishop Porter as one of the Hearts of Gold recipients. Forty years to that day. You know that was a very monumental thing there.

	O:	Well Johnny your story proves though that your past doesn’t have to really dictate what your future is because you went into the newspaper business after you got out. Talk about that transition.





	H:	Well let me say this, I’ve been in the process of writing my book and I need to finish it for the last—I’ve been out of prison thirty-two years, approaching thirty- three now next June 21st. How I got in the newspaper business. When I was in prison I studied three things: I studied the Bible; I studied Psychology; and I studied the Law. Bishop Porter and I grew up as kids, neighbors. I’ve been knowing him since we was little boys. He was also a teacher’s aid in Ms. Jeannie

J. Poe class when we were students. Although he’s a grade ahead of me, he graduated in the Booker High School class of [19]65, I graduated in the Booker High School class of [19]66. So when he started his ministry, I remember him practicing right there at the corner.

	O:	301.



	H:	Yeah Uh-huh. And so it used to be a lady out of Jacksonville called “The First of Gospel named the late Esther Banister.” And so she used to bring a group of women into the prison system. I was at Florida State Prison. That’s where your death row inmates are and the so-called hardcore criminals. Well I started out there, okay and so I knew guys. You know we would go into it, they would come once a month and we would go to the gymnasium where they would conduct the religious services and stuff and so guys would just come you know ‘cause you gonna see some females. You don’t see females. They didn’t have women working prisons back hardly when I was there. And so I though Henry, I said, “You know something?” I said, “You know something? I need to contact Henry about bringing his prison ministry into this prison system.” And ironically he told me his story is that he had a dream that it was somebody behind a prison bar, he





couldn’t see the face, said, “I need somebody to help me carry this heavy load.” And at that time he had that dream, he received my letter about bringing his ministry into the prison system, simultaneously. And so he responded back and I told him how he could start the process. And the secretary at the time was Louie Wayne Wright at the Department of Corrections. It wasn’t called Corrections, it was called the “Department of Federal Rehabilitation” is what it was called. And so he started that in 1976 and he’s been going in there now since 1976. And so that’s how that got started. But like I said, when I was there a week before I was scheduled to go to trial—I was out on bond. So I got arrested initially October the 20th. Tomorrow will be forty-one years ago that I got arrest, October 20th 1974. I got out on bond and I stayed out on bond till January 1975, till the last week in January 1975 and so as a result of that, they said they heard that I was gonna flee the jurisdiction of the court so they rearrest me to make sure I was gonna be there for trial. I met a guy.

	O:	We talking about newspaper now, how you got into the newspaper.



	H:	Yeah but I’m feeling to tell you how all this here come about. It started way back there whether you know it or not. And so I made a commitment to God, I told him to fill me or kill me. I told him to fill me with the true meaning and essence of what life is all about because as an only child, I live pretty good in Newtown all my life. And it still didn’t have that fulfillment that I thought life would bring. And so I’m sitting there, I said, “Well fill me with the true essence what life about, or take me out.” Then I entered into recovery. Now I start reading the Bible. See now I went to church all the way till I was eighteen, seventeen years old. I finished high





school at seventeen ‘cause my birthday in August and I got out of school in June of [19]66. And my mother had me in church from the time I was a little boy until I was seventeen years old. I didn’t miss no Bethlehem Church okay? [Laughter]. And so as a result of that, I told him, I said, “If you give me knowledge, wisdom, and understanding and patience as you gave King Solomon,” I said, “I will serve you for the rest of my life.” So that was my thing. And so when I went to prison, I stayed eight and a half years in there. They had three types of parole systems. They don’t have parole now. They have parole for guys that been in during that time. After 1985 when they passed the Stop Turning Out Prisoners Amendment, they made inmates now do 85% of their time. So if I got the time that I got in 1975, if I got it today, I would have never seen the light of day. Never no more until a funeral director came and got me. So that’s how they got it set up now.

Very cruel. But anyway they had three parole systems at that time, they had a regular parole that they would see once a year; and they came out with a rejected parole guideline where they score you on what they call a Salient Factor Score and it scored from zero to eleven. Zero being the lowest and the highest score, the worser person you was prior to. Well my score was in zero in all the categories because the first time I ever seen the inside of a jail, I was twenty-six years old. And so as a result—then the United States Supreme Court ruled on the Costello v. Wainwright that the prison system in America had to establish law libraries in all the prison systems in America. In fact, Florida is known for two monumental cases: Gideon v. Wainwright where they established the public defender’s office, or the publics defense office you see calling it, that started in





Florida, in Marianna, Florida, Jackson County. The prison libraries started from Costello v. Wainwright up in Raiford. And so I was selected. So when they came down they selected twenty-five inmates to go to Avon Park to train to be a law clerk for two weeks and I was one of those twenty-five. I finished second in that class so I went back to Polk Correctional Institution and I ran the law library there while I was there. But I was doing too great a job because it’s okay if you help them to get back in the court but when you help them file grievances against the Department of Corrections, what they call the DC 77 Form, and I was good at that too so they didn’t want that. Well I told the Lieutenant at the time when he called himself going to scold me for doing that. I said, “Well if y’all didn’t want me to do the job, you shouldn’t have put me in there because I’m not gonna do no half job.” Next thing I know I was being transferred from Polk to Florida State Prison old unit. That’s the minimum, medium section of Florida State Prison at the time. This is after being am. Then I met the former secretary of Florida, Bill Gunther, he was the State Treasurer, State Fire Marshall and on the Pardon’s Board. So I got transferred to the old unit and my mother was having health problems, she had heart problems. So they transferred me from Polk to back up there. So she asked me could I get back closer to Sarasota because my mother came to see me three times a month for eight and a half years the wild time I was there. And so one day I got a call. So I wrote Bill Gunther. We had met each other in 1978 at Raiford. And we started a relationship writing each other and everything. I never asked for him to do anything for me and so but we had a great relationship so when my mother asked me to try to get back to Sarasota,





closer to Sarasota, I wrote him. I said, “Well Bill,” I said, “We been writing for four years” and I said, “I’m not asking you to help me get out of prison.” I said, “But I am asking you to help me get back closer to Sarasota because of my mother’s health.” He wrote me back. He said, “Well Johnny, you know I don’t have no direct authority over Louie Wayne Wright.” But I wrote him back with a smile. I drew a circle with a smile and everything. I said, “Bill I knew that when I wrote you.” I said, “But you the State Fire Marshall. You the State Treasurer. And you the State Insurance Commissioner.” I said, “And you on the Pardons’ Board, Clemency Board.” I just want a transfer. I don’t want out of prison. Within two weeks, they called me over the PA system and said, “Inmate Johnny Hunter report to Classification.” So the Chief Classification Officer asked me how did I know the State Insurance Commissioner. I said I told him when I met him. He said, “Well we got to transfer you. We gonna transfer you to Zephyrhills in two weeks.” So I got a transfer closer to Sarasota for my mom.

	O:	All right now I’m still trying to find out about this newspaper.



	H:	I’m feeling to bring it to you. The late William Fred Jackson. When I was incarcerated, I used to write a column for the paper “Behind Prison Walls.” I wrote that monthly for the paper.

	O:	What as this column about?



	H:	Just talking about experiences. You know you how you experience. O:	Experiences behind bars?

	H:	Yeah. You talk about—you know what the average education or grade level was at the time when I was in prison? It was sixth grade. I’m talking about from 1975





till [19]83. You talking about sixth grade. We are the majority in prison but we the minority in the state population. And the average education or grade level is sixth grade. See I finished high school, they thought I was a professor in prison. And everything I knew, I thought everybody knew it. You know for me it was just common. But it wasn’t. They just had sixth grade education.

	O:	So you were writing a column for William Fred Jackson? H:	Yeah it’s called Behind Prison Walls.

	O:	And then—



	H:	So when I got out, he wanted me to come work for him. Well see initially I wasn’t coming to Sarasota. I had a presented a parole plan to go to Tampa and I had a job with a lawyer, gonna be a clerk ‘cause I was certified legal assistant. But God came and spoke to me and said, “I don’t want you to go to Tampa, I want you to go back to Sarasota.” He said, “In Tampa, you’ll be like a grain of sand on the beach among many, nobody won’t know you. A no more stranger hair on a person’s head that have hair.” He said, “I want you to go back to that cesspool that you come from in Sarasota and be an ambassador for me.” So I wrote the parole commission and canceled my parole plans to go to Tampa, because I got a first cousin there that spent 26 years in the Air Force and he retired in Tampa and he was working in the Post Office. And so he talking about come stay over there if I wanted to with him until I got myself together. And so I came back. So I didn’t get job offer in Sarasota. So I went back, like I said, I owned a garage business before I went there and so at the time the VA had a program in place for Vietnam era vets, that they would pay for you to go to school and give you a





stipend for the month. So after I didn’t get a job offer, I said well I’ll go open up another business. So I went to Sarasota Vo Tech this time. And I took up another—because you see when I left in 1975, gas was less than a dollar a gallon, cars had points and plugs and Interstate 75 ended in Tampa. When I got out Interstate 75 had went down to Key West. But the farthest you could come south on I-75 back then was in Tampa and anything traveling South Florida, you had to go take the Ta-Miami Trail, which stand for Tampa-Miami Trail. So after I did that, I went to Sarasota Vo Tech and they paid me to go to school, paid for the course and paid me to go to school. And then I was experiences occupational burn out. I had a great business. I was doing great. I had over two hundred customers. I had a tow truck and everything. But I had promised God that if he gave me knowledge, wisdom, understanding, and patience like he gave King Solomon, that I would serve him. And I didn’t feel like I was serving him doing what I was doing. Now I was part of Jim Russo Prison Ministry, he’s dead now. I used to be on his ministry. I used to travel with him back to the prisons, sharing my testimony and did fundraisers for him. And also go with a guy named Willie Dixon, Reverend Willie Dixon out of Tampa that he goes to Zephyrhills with his ministry and I met him in prison. He was a former school teacher out of Tampa.

We met initially in 1974 when I was over there Tampa having dope distributed and he was buying it from my distributors over there. And he was a junkie though. Yeah he was a junkie.

	O:	So keep us on path now with this newspaper ‘cause I’m coming up on forty-three minutes of you talking.





	H:	Okay well let me talk about the newspaper. After two years of my business, I contact Fleek Jackson in August of [19]86. I said, “We need to talk.” And I met him at Amlee Diner which is where Subway now is at and Metro PCS, in that same building there on 301. I said, “Fleek you’ve been trying to get me to come work for you.” I said, “Let’s talk. I’m ready to change careers.” And we talked and we talked for about four hours and I shook his hand and I said, “I’m your man.” So I closed up my garage business in August of [19]86, that was twenty-nine years ago. My oldest son was a junior at the University of Florida, Brandon Major. And I called him, I said, “Son, your daddy feeling to change careers. I’m going in the newspaper business. I don’t nothing about no newspaper, although in high school a little civics and math and social studies, which is kinda part of that. They had a civics class then. And so I said, “Okay Fleek, I’m your man.” We shook hands and then I started. My son told me, I said, “I need some books.” So he told me about two books and I sent him the money up there to the University of Florida, he bought the books and sent them to me and I started reading the books.

	O:	About journalism and how to write, how to publish a newspaper?



	H:	How to publish a newspaper, how the newspaper got started and everything. And that’s how I got started twenty-nine years ago.

	O:	Wow so you sold advertising for him first and then wrote stories too until eventually he died?





	H:	Yeah well now let me tell you what happened. You would have to read the story.



This edition here explains everything what I’m telling you how I got into the newspaper business.

	O:	Well give me the short story. You sold ads first?



	H:	I sold ads first, I didn’t do any writing at that time. I sold the advertising, he took care of the writing parts. I sold advertising and I was doing such a great job because whatever I commit to, imma be the best at what I do. See I got a personal formula that you call 3 D’s equal success: Desire, Determination, and Discipline. You’ll be successful at anything you do. Desire, determination and discipline equals success. So that’s my personal formula. So I start selling advertising, done good there. And then it became, Fred Atkins recommended and Kerry Kirschner appointed me to be on the Civil Service Board for the City of Sarasota. This was in September [19]90. Okay I worked for Jackson from August of [19]86 to actually Ed James and Charles Benton forcef Jackson out of their paper and that’s when he started this paper. See Jackson started Tempo, I didn’t. And like I said, whole story is detailed in here.

	O:	Yeah but I want you to tell me it in a short version.



	H:	I show you the short version. I got appointed and then the Police Benevolent Association raised all kind of sand about me being on their board. Now although my rights were reinstated and everything, because two of the detectives, one dead now the late Chief Al Hover, which he got killed in North Carolina on a motorcycle, and Stan Carla. They certainly objected to me being on the board because then here go a person that they helped convict and now he’s sitting in





authority over them. If they came before the Civil Service Commission but I would have recused myself on anything dealing with them but the politics was so heavy in [19]90 to Kerry Kirschner removed me off the board. Because he told me, he said, “I’ll put you on any board you want to be on but I can’t let you stay on that one.” [Laughter] So I got in the newspaper business and that’s what I’ve been doing since I took it over in [19]90 September [19]90. Just last month was my 25th year of doing this.

	O:	The Tempo Newspaper. So you’ve seen a lot of changes, Johnny. I’ve got to ask you, the changes that you’ve seen, what do you envision for Newtown’s future? You’ve seen its ups and its downs. You’ve seen it filled with businesses. You’ve seen successful Black-owned businesses and now this very few Black businesses.

	H:	Well let me tell you this, one of the main problems is, we are not organized.



Politics controls everything that we do in this world. From the air we breadth to this interview we doing, there’s some regulation that governs that. You have to be politically active in this society. If you cannot vote, you don’t even count. One example I use there’s two things that I see: one, even Bill Gates, they say the richest man in the world but when he go in the voting booth, how many votes he get? And we got equal opportunity time. How many hours in the day? Nobody get no more or no less. It’s how you manage your twenty-four hours. Until we learn the political, and Dr. Sherman Thompson told me this, he used to be a professor at the University of South Florida, he was a Black professor, he had went to prison early in his life but he went on and got educated and became a college





professor. And he told me this in 1982. He said, “Until you learn the rules of the game, you cannot play the game. And once you learn the rules of the game, you don’t like the way the game being played, then you get yourself in a position to make the rules to play the game the way you want to play it.” Until we learn to organize and effectively use our votes—see one of the main problems that African Americans in this town, the squeaky wheel gets the oil. Until we learn that, we vote Democrat but we need have equal amount of African Americans over in the Republican Party. In fact, imma tell you this. Sheriff Tom Knight told me, I was sitting in his office. I used to be Chairman of his Diversity Committee and he told me that he could be Sheriff, he didn’t need to know Sarasota people because he could be Sheriff as long as he want to be. And he’s correct because we don’t have the voting power to vote him out. The only way to vote him out is to get Black folks to register as Republicans ‘cause one thing that I do know about Republicans, they gonna always have someone challenge them within the party on a primary. So you got find a candidate that embraces your values and say, “Okay you support, this what we believe in, can you support this?” Then they got to change their party affiliation and register as Republican and vote him out. But so—

	O:	That is what has to happen, we’ve got to engage politically? H:	That’s the only way.

	O:	Okay.





	H:	Because you don’t even count if you can’t vote. They know that. You know what the late Doug Jameson told me? He used to be the secretary, you remember him?

	O:	No.



	H:	Doug Jameson was the Secretary of Employment; he was a democrat from St.



Petersburg. He told, we became very good friends, although ever since I’ve been registered to vote, I’ve been a Republican. He said, “Johnny let me tell you how politics work.” He said, “When you go to a politician, for any help, the first thing they do, they pull their list out. See is your name on the list. And it don’t make no difference how much money you give them. You got them. They just want to see is your name on the list. But then they gonna try to accommodate you as to what you need. But if you not on the list, they gonna filibuster you.”

	O:	Okay so name on the list means that you’ve voted at some point.



	H:	When I’m talking about the list, on their list. You know you may give them a campaign contribution. You got to write checks too. That’s just the way American politics.

	O:	You got to contribute.



	H:	That’s what it’s all about. Until we understand that, I consider we’ll continue being a beggar race. You don’t have to be a beggar race. You got to utilize your voting strength but you got to understand how you got to use it. You know a guy wrote a book many years ago said Unfounded Loyalty, why Black folks have unfound loyalty to the Democrat party.





	O:	Johnny Hunter is there anything you would like to add? Otherwise I’m wrapping this up ‘cause I can see now that you can go on for the rest of this day [Laughter].

	H:	Well truthfully, wrapping up, that we as African American have to begin to understand the political process in which we live. Until we do that, we gonna always be behind the eight ball. Thank you.

	O:	Thank you.





[End of Interview]





	Final edit by:	Sandra Romero, November 5, 2020