AAHP 656; Mannings; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu





AAHP 656 Eva Mannings 5-23-2019 Interviewed by Ryan Morini and Marcus Chatfield

on May 23, 2019



49 Pages



Abstract:

Keywords: [African American History; Tallahassee Bus Boycott; Civil Rights; Martin Luther King, Jr.; Black Churches]



AAHP 656

Interviewee: Eva Mannings

Interviewer: Ryan Morini and Marcus Chatfield Date: May 23, 2019







	RM:	This is Ryan Morini with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. Today is May 23, 2019, and I’m here in Tallahassee, Florida with –

	C:	Marcus Chatfield.



	RM:	And we’re here to interview –



	EM:	Eva B. Mannings. Tallahassee, Florida.



	RM:	Thank you for joining us today. Can I ask what the B stands for? EM:	The B is for Beard, that’s my maiden name.

	RM:	Beer?



	EM:	Beard, like your –



	RM:	Beard, okay. B – E – A – R – D. EM:	Yes.

	RM:	Okay. So Eva Beard-Mannings. EM:	Yes.

	RM:	Well it’s a pleasure to be joining you today.



	EM:	Thank you so very much, it’s a pleasure to have you here. C:	Thank you very much.

	RM:	So can I ask when and where you were born?





	EM:	I was born in Perrine, Florida, which is a suburb of Miami. RM:	Okay, okay. And when were you born?

	EM:	November 3, 1924. RM:	Okay.

	EM:	So I’m ninety-four happy years.



	RM:	Wow, wow that’s impressive, that’s beautiful. EM:	Thank you.

	RM:	And so, I’m gonna guess Miami was a little different back then than it is today. EM:	Miami was different, and it’s still different. Very, very different.

	RM:	So how would you describe the community you grew up in?



	EM:	The community that I grew up in was family-oriented. Everybody knew everybody and it was like a village, raising kids. And we just had a closeness. That closeness is no longer there, and it’s just like other cities. But Perrine was a family-oriented town.

	RM:	I see. And can I ask about your family? Who were your parents?



	EM:	My father was a minister and my mother was a teacher, and the other rest of them were not really college graduates but they were educated as far as education was concerned.

	RM:	Okay. And so your father was a minister, where? What was his church?





	EM:	Hurst Chapel, in Miami. RM:	Okay.

	EM:	He was a minister. [Jean Mannings?]: AME.

	EM:	Any African-American, AME church, that was the denomination. RM:	Hurst Chapel AME.

	EM:	Yes.



	RM:	Okay. And where was your father from? Where were your parents from originally?

	EM:	He was from Lake Wales, Florida and my mother was from Coconut Grove, Florida.

	RM:	Okay. Do you know any of the family history of how they got there, or? EM:	I’m not sure.

	RM:	Okay. Do you know how they met or anything like that? Did they ever talk about it?

	EM:	At church.



	RM:	Oh they met at, okay, okay. EM:	I remember that.

	RM:	And so, where did they meet?





	EM:	They met at Hurst Chapel Church at a revival.



	RM:	Okay, okay. Was your father already the minister there? EM:	He was already the minister.

	RM:	Okay, that’s beautiful then. Do you know any of what drew your mother to – well Coconut Grove was – I mean was she just going to Hurst Chapel down there?

	EM:	She was going to the church and singing in the choir. And they eloped from there.

	RM:	And so, in the community where you grew up, I mean, what kind of work did people do generally?

	EM:	Farmers, sharecroppers. They were sharecroppers. And the foreman of the sharecroppers were my grandfather, Mr. Dan Rolle.

	RM:	Dan Rolle. How do you spell the last name? EM:	R – O – L – L – E.

	RM:	Okay. So your grandfather was the foreman. EM:	Yes.

	RM:	What kind of work did he do as the foreman? EM:	Pick tomatoes and beans.

	RM:	So it was mostly tomatoes and beans down there? EM:	Yes.





[Telephone Rings]



	RM:	Were there a lot of migrant workers coming through, too?



	EM:	Yes, the migrant workers came in. They’d come in from there on trucks and go to the farms.

	RM:	Okay, and so your grandfather I guess would kinda organize them or help? EM:	He was the foreman, yes.

	RM:	Okay. And so, were there any Black-owned farms in the area where you were growing up?

	EM:	He was Black, my grandfather was Black.



	RM:	Oh and he owned a farm? He owned the land. Okay, okay. EM:	He owned it, yes, yes, yes, yes.

	RM:	Do you know how many acres? EM:	I don’t want to estimate.

	RM:	Okay, I can respect that. So did your family eat a lot of the food that was grown on that farm?

	EM:	Yes, all of the food that they grew was eaten by us.



	RM:	What kinds of things were your favorite things that grew out there?



	EM:	Potatoes, beans, that’s what we knew. And of course they had hogs and cows, and they would slaughter those and we ate their meat.





	RM:	They had a smokehouse maybe?



	EM:	Oh yes, we had a smokehouse. And we would grind the sugarcane for syrup. I mean, it was very primitive, because we didn’t have access to machines or anything.

	RM:	But it –



	EM:	It worked, here I am [Laughter].

	RM:	Yeah, yeah. Well it’s a, I mean it’s some good, healthy food [Unintelligible 6:06]/ EM:	It’s amazing, amazing. They would cook. The meal would come from the corn,



potatoes, beans, we knew, you know, potato pies. And apple pies was – apples were a novelty. You had a chance to go up the store once a month and buy apples. And we’d have the apple pies for – that was a novelty, special meals.

	RM:	Oh yeah, that –



	EM:	Grew the chickens and the ducks, because that was at the time when we had the chickens with the fur on them, those “fizzly” chickens. I don’t know whether you see those now anymore. In fact you don’t see any live chickens many places.

	RM:	That’s true.



	EM:	No, you see chicken at the market but you don’t see any chicken walking around.



Can you think of it?



	RM:	Not often, not often. But so you were used to – did the kids have to pluck the chickens and things like that?





	EM:	Oh they’d get the chickens and if they were gonna have chicken for dinner or something they’d put that chicken up to kill themselves, and then they’d break their neck and wring them, and the chicken would jump up, you know. That was the way they killed them. They didn’t know anything about, the machines now, that was [Unintelligible 7:42], we didn’t know anything about that. Hit the cow in the head, or shoot him, the hog. Very primitive.

	RM:	But it worked, you had to –



	EM:	It worked. We had ham, you had beef stew, you had steaks, had chicken. We knew nothing about the wings, you know, special, but everybody lived like a family. There were certain days when they would cook, and families would bring food and they’d make a great big spread around the twentieth of May. That was a big holiday, a big one.

	RM:	What are your memories of that? Do you remember the first twentieth of May, the first May Day that you went to? Did they call it May Day or did they call it the twentieth of May?

	EM:	It’s always been called May Day. Twentieth of May was a big holiday. That was the commemorative date for the emancipation.

	RM:	So what did they do on May Day?



	EM:	Oh, we’d have a good time, real good time. Games, stories, food, they’d go from family to family to see whose food was the best, that sort of thing. But those were the days, and of course if you were to compare today with yesterday it would be quite a difference.





RM:  Can I ask where’d they gather for May Day? Was there a special place or did you –

	EM:	Big park. RM:	Okay

EM:  And the parks were not organized like they are now. They just had trees, and old stumps, and shade. You’d come out there and on the ground, you’d find a space for your family, and your family’d be over here and my family’d be over here.

Family would try and compete with each other, in a jovial way.



	RM:	Oh yeah.



	EM:	In a jovial way. We’d try and see whose macaroni and cheese was different, that sort of thing.

	RM:	That’s the good stuff. And, I mean, I’ve met some people today who know of May Day but they don’t realize that historical root of where it comes from. Was that something they talked about when you were growing up? Like did people talk about emancipation during that holiday or?

	EM:	They knew the meaning of it but it wasn’t emphasized like that, but everybody looked forward to May twentieth, everybody, that was holiday. And the schools looked forward to May first, that was the day that they would have the festival.

	RM:	At the schools. EM:	Yes.

	RM:	So what was that festival like?





	EM:	Oh, games and, there was something called the maypole, we’d learn how to plait: duh, duh, duh, duh, duh. And games, costumes for different groups. It was nice, very nice.

	RM:	Sounds it. So that was at the schools, but did the community come out to it or was it just for the –

	EM:	It was segregated, I don’t think the Caucasians did anything about it. RM:	Oh I mean the adults.

	EM:	Oh yes, that was a big thing, anytime you’d have children in an activity that would draw the parents, and the community. They wanted to see who was doing this and who was doing that. And it was very well attended.

	RM:	I see. And I have some more questions about school, but just to backtrack, you were talking about the butchering hogs and cows, did people just do that on their own or did people kinda, like what happened, let’s say someone butchered a hog.

	EM:	It was a seasonal thing, they didn’t kill hogs every day. It was seasonal. RM:	Okay.

	EM:	You know, at that time they would go by the signs. The sign says this and the sign says that, and the moon says so and so and so. Every Wednesday so and so and so would happen, and the killing of the cows would be at a certain time. They didn’t kill them all of the time, every day, no.

	RM:	And so people would kinda come together and agree on this is the right time, or?





	EM:	There wasn’t an agreement, but through the years it was a custom, that you would kill those hogs around – Thanksgiving had a time for a certain thing. Different seasons carried different things to be killed. You didn’t just kill a cow just to kill him, I mean because he’d have calves, and you didn’t kill him year round. There was a certain time you’d kill, and the farmers knew that. And it was just, a memorable thing.

	RM:	Makes sense. What about wild foods? Did you eat any animals that grew out –



	EM:	oh yes, they knew how to set traps to catch those coons and possums and the deer and it depends on –

	JM:	Squirrels.



EM: Oh yeah, squirrels. And it depended on the section that you lived that was most dominant for possums. You wouldn’t find them everywhere. You wouldn’t find a coon everywhere. You wouldn’t find a pigeon everywhere, or the squirrels. They had certain sections where they would come.

RM: So what was in your section where you were growing up? EM:  Coons, possums.

	RM:	Okay. How’d your family cook those.



EM:  Well they’d skin him, and cook him, and I never did have a taste for anything wild, even now. No, I, when I go to places where wild food is served I always avoid them. For some reason, I don’t know.

RM:  Oh, you had plenty of good food growing up, it sounds like.





	EM:	Oh yes, no one was underweight [Laughter]. No, we knew nothing about a diet, we just ate from you, and we ate this one’s cake, and we ate that one’s lemon meringue. It was joyous. It was.

	RM:	It sounds it. What about wild fruits and things, like were there blackberries or any kind of?

	EM:	Blackberries, and I notice now sapodillas have been renamed a kiwi. And tiessas have been named, I don’t – sapodillas, we still have papayas.

	JM:	Guavas.



	EM:	You have guavas, yes, thank you Jean. We have guavas, but I don’t see any – well the sapodillas are called kiwis now, they renamed them. And we still had kumquats, and breadfruit, there were the hard pears, and figs.

	JM:	Dates.



	EM:	Dates, yes, dates were prevalent then, too. You could walk through the fields and get enough to eat.

	RM:	It sounds like it, yeah that’s a – EM:	Oh yes, oh yes. Blackberries.

	RM:	That’s a lot of good stuff. You just eat them fresh or did any of those things go in pies or cakes or –

	EM:	Both.



	RM:	Both, yeah.





EM: Both, a lot of times, especially around Thanksgiving, they’d pick enough to be getting ready to make the pies, they would. There was a time when Grandma would fix guava jelly. Delicious. She’d pick enough to fix guava jelly.

RM:  Those are things to look forward to, every year, I’m sure.



	EM:	You would look forward to it. It was a ceremony to see them grind the cane. And make the syrup. And take the juice from the syrup and make wine. And take the juice from the pineapple peelings and make, put yeast in it, and you’d have a quick drunk.

	RM:	How’d that go? Like how do you, you just put the yeast in and let it sit for a little while?

	EM:	No, you take the skin from the pineapple. You peel the pineapple, take the skin from the pineapple, and let it steep. And after it steeps for about three or four days, you put some yeast in there and that makes it come up and rise and then you put, it’s a drink.

RM:  Okay.



EM: And then you drink that and get a cheap drunk. RM:  Ay.

EM:  Yep.



RM:  What’d it taste like?



	EM:	He’s laughing. Now that I don’t know because I’m a teetotaler, I’ve always been that.





	RM:	Okay.



	EM:	But I’ve seen it done. And they feel real good, tipsy. RM:	Oh, that’s, so it was pretty popular?

	EM:	In fact, there wasn’t an abundant supply of alcohol, they made their own alcohol.



Moonshine, and wine, all of that was homemade.



	RM:	I see.



	EM:	Pineapple, the moonshine, and it was, everybody was happy. No one was arrested.

	RM:	That’s, and so that sugarcane wine, that was pretty popular too? EM:	Yes, they’d love that, what was it, buck?

	RM:	Buck.



	EM:	Yes.



	RM:	Okay. Buck. Was there a name for the pineapple drink or was it?



	EM:	I don’t remember, but I just remembered seeing it being made. Oh yeah, that was a “biggun” too. Oh my goodness, that was something. You’d see people coming from everywhere to taste your pineapple juice, or her pineapple juice. It was nice.

	RM:	It sounds it. I mean it sounds like a lotta strong sense of community, I guess, people are –

	EM:	Oh yeah, but, it was family-oriented. Families at that time, everyone was related to somebody, either they were married or they were some kin. So, you grew up





like that. If you did something at school, it went all over the community of what happened, so you were very cautious about your behavior and respect. But now it’s different.

	RM:	Well, and so, where did you go to school growing up?



	EM:	I went to school at R. R. Moton in Perrine, Florida, and then I left there and went to Douglas Elementary School in Miami, and I graduated from Booker T. Washington High School in Miami.

	RM:	Okay.



	EM:	In 1941.



	RM:	1941.



	EM:	One of their oldest graduates. JM:	Now.

	EM:	Huh?



	JM:	You’re now one of their oldest.



	EM:	I’m now one of them. And also from FAMU. RM:	Oh yeah?

	EM:	Yes, there are about six of us that’s living that finished in [19]46.



	RM:	Oh, wow, well that’s. So what, are there any teachers who stand out from your early education and you can –





	EM:	Yes. Ms. MacFarlane inspired me in first grade, I remember her very well. And the way she would, ooh, she was a heavyset person but she was so personable, and there I was, little fella, duh duh duh duh duh duh. But she inspired me, and I said, then, I want to be like her. And I remember that name, coming on up, I wanted to be just like her. And sure enough, I ended up with thirty-eight years of it.

	RM:	So she, that stuck with you your whole life. EM:	It stuck with me, Ms. MacFarlane, yes.

	RM:	Were there any other teachers who stood out later in high school and other things or?

	EM:	Yes, Ms. Fr – Hazel Reaves, [Unintelligible 20:32] and Ida Ratcliff taught me English, English teachers in junior high and senior high. And I remember those rules, I before E except after C, and if it’s a vowel before the Y, you do this, change Y to I. You remember things like that, you do. They were very good.

Personable, stern, and that sternness stuck with me.



	RM:	So they would demand.



	EM:	they were demanding but they weren’t pressured, like they’d give you choices: if you didn’t turn your work in, so and so and so and so, you won’t be abl to go on a field trip, you know, something like that. Well if the school, if the class was leaving to go on a field trip you wanted to go, so you got your work in. And it was things like that. If you wanted to stay on the cheerleading, or you wanted to stay





with the pep, you had to keep your grades up. There was always an incentive for everything, so that’s what you lived by.

	RM:	And what kinds of field trips did they take, do you remember?



	EM:	We went to music festivals, from Miami to St. Augustine. And we went to track meets, out of town, track meetings. Wasn’t very much, but we’d go with the football team to some of their activities, or football teams, or track meeting, or choral activities.

	RM:	And the, I mean I’m noticing all of the schools you went to were named after people, did they teach you about who those people were?

	EM:	Yes, notable people. We knew who they were. We knew. RM:	So that was part of going to the school.

	EM:	That was a part of it, yes it was. We knew who they were.



	RM:	And that’s, I mean, the way, well, how did you experience segregation growing up, if I might ask?

	EM:	We never knew what it was, we grew up in a segregated situation, and we never – we knew that the Whites would ride the bus, and we didn’t. We knew that, we knew that we’d get books with pages torn out, and we knew that those books came from them. But it wasn’t, at that time, an issue, because our parents were afraid of them. And we ran into that, our parents were non-vocal. So when they brought the discarded books over, we were happy for them.

	RM:	Did you realize that they were discarded at that time?





	EM:	We knew something was happening, yes, oh yeah, we knew something was happening. When you see page ten, and then next was page sixteen, and you wanted to read the story and it couldn’t be continued because that page was out, we knew that something was happening. And we’d see them riding in the bus, and we’d be walking, but it was just a thing until, oh my goodness, we never knew.

	RM:	Did you interact much with White people growing up? EM:	No.

	RM:	So that wasn’t really a –



	EM:	They stood their ground and we stood ours.



	RM:	Understandable. So were there, you’ve talked about a lot of the farmers in the community, were there Black-owned businesses? Were there shops that you could go to?

	EM:	Yes, there were shops that we could go to, but there were more shops, there was more variety with them than with us. And of course they respected us, there were no fixing or anything, it was just a common thing that we were going to “Whitetown,” that’s what we called it, Whitetown, and that was it.

	RM:	And that, and when you went to Whitetown that was Miami? Or was that in – EM:	That was in Miami.

	RM:	That was in Miami.





EM:  now I’ve seen the Klu Klux come through with their raids, I’ve seen them do that with the sheets on, and they’d come through with the drums, and we would hide. We’d gone through that.

	RM:	That’s – when was the first time you went through that? EM:	I can’t remember the year but I remember the incident. RM:	Can I ask what happened? Or what you –

	EM:	Something would be going on that they did not like, and that was their way of letting us know that something was going on and they didn’t like. And they’d come through, oh, a radius of about five miles around the town with the sheets on and the drums and tooting horns, and we wouldn’t be visible.

	RM:	Did your parents talk to you about how to handle yourself in, because of this? EM:	Our teachers told us.

	RM:	Your teachers told you. EM:	Yeah.

	RM:	So that was part of the –



	EM:	You stay in, I mean you don’t go out when things happen, most times they would happen at night, not during the day, at night. Very scary.

	RM:	I would imagine. A lot for a young person to process.



	EM:	Yes. But we got along fine. We did. We didn’t haul off and die because of that.



Because, most times you’d get an inkling of when they were coming. You’d have





an idea. Something would happen to let you know there was gonna be a raid, that’s what they called it, a KK raid. And, well, you knew not to go to [Unintelligible 27:06] that night. Those were perilous times, but we’re here, and we’re not going anywhere. No, we’re here, and a lot of us have had productive lives and I feel real good. Okay.

	RM:	Well, so what about, within the Black community were there any organizations, like I know there was Knights of Pythias in some places and there were, were there any aid societies or anything in the community that you remember?

	EM:	We’ve always had NAACP, we’ve always been able to depend on that, but after Dr. King came by and organized SCLC that made a difference too, because all of us wanted to cater with that. Now I have a story to tell about that but you have me ask.

	RM:	Well, I’d love to hear the story.



	EM:	The story is Reverend Steele would go to Atlanta to meet with Reverend Abernathy and Jose Williams and that group, and he’d come back and relay things to us that Dr. King wanted us to do. And when Dr. King came down to my church, Bethel Missionary Baptist, he was telling us about the essence of being nonviolent, and he was at the membership and he wanted to know if there were anyone in the audience, in the congregation, that couldn’t be nonviolent. Well I raised my hand, and that just struck him as if I had said the wrong thing. He went all over the country telling people that there was a Christian in Tallahassee, at Bethel missionary Baptist Church, that couldn’t be nonviolent. Reverend Steele





called me in and talked with me and this that says to me: “You can’t be?” I said: “No, now if they spit on me I’m gone spit back on them.” And I did not change my mind. But each time Dr. King would come to the church, he’d preach to us about once a month with his group, my choir sat behind him, he’d always ask: “Where is the sister that says she can’t be nonviolent?” I’d say: “I’m right here.”

	RM:	[Laughter].



	EM:	Now I spent my time taking sandwiches to the jail to the students that were arrested, and I would get milk and take to them. I did not march, but I contributed shoe coupons, and at that time we were getting coupons for shoes and coupons for gas, because the boycott was on, so when I’d get my coupon for gas, I’d divide it. And my husband was driving cabs, so I gave him some of my gas, and I was driving too, I gave him some of my gas coupon, and I made sandwiches, peanut butter and jelly sandwiches to take to the jail, but I’m still nonviolent. Oh no, I couldn’t handle that, no. And at that time they were spitting and saying ugly things and just being ugly, and I preferred not to march because I knew I would get in trouble. So that’s my story. Stop me now.

RM: No, it’s a good story. Well – EM: I introduced Coretta King – RM:  Oh yeah?

	EM:	Yes. At a – we belonged to the same sorority, and when we invited her at Bethel Missionary Baptist Church during the boycott and during the Civil Rights Movement, to be our Women’s Day speaker, and for some unknown reason, the





group selected me to introduce her, and I did. And now that was an experience. The day she came in the police department knew and they stopped the traffic from the airport to the hotel, and no one could live on that floor where she was, that floor was barred from everybody. And you couldn’t go up there unless you had ID, and this, and fingerprint, and even at the church, they inspect us. She had Secret Service, they didn’t want anything to happen to her while she was here. And they stayed right there with her at church, they had the dogs were there, and when she got ready to leave they escorted her form the church back to the airport. That was for her.

	RM:	Yeah. I mean, was it, because you said overall you were kinda used to living peaceably, at least I guess.

	EM:	A segregated way.



	RM:	Yeah, in a segregated way.



	EM:	Now, I was the first Black that integrated Sealey Elementary School. RM:	Okay, okay.

	EM:	I was the first Black editor at the Tallahassee Democrat. There were only two Blacks, that was me and the janitor.

	RM:	Wow, wow.



EM: I went there because the Tallahassee Democrat at that time was only publishing police blotter about us, what we did, and I was young, silly, curious, so I went to Mr. McGralter and I told him, I said: “Look, we need to have something in the





paper about us.” And he looked at me like I was from outer space somewhere, and I had introduced myself and he said: “Ms. Mannings, what do you have in mind?” I said: “I want to write some.” And I wrote for the Miami Herald in Miami, and then I wrote for Tallahassee, for the FAMUan, I was on that staff. So I had some experience in writing, and I told him I wanted to write some news about us. He told me, said: “Okay, alright, we’ll put you on for a year.” And I met Gerald Ensley and we worked together. I had a section on Saturday, called the – what was it called Jean? Anyway, I had my own section every Saturday.

	JM:	Community Means. Community Means.



	EM:	I’m trying to think of what that was, but anyway, I had my own section, and there was enough news coming to me here and on the phone, and we made that up, and every Saturday a different one – the sales for the paper went up, because we were in it. News, school news, society news, who went where, church news, I got the different churches to get a reporter and the schools to get a reporter, and different clubs. It was organized. I worked my shoes off, but I enjoyed it. So, now there are Blacks at the Tallahassee Democrat but I don’t know what’s gonna happen now because they going to Panama City.

	JM:	Print it in Panama City and bring it back here instead, it’s cheaper. Started last week.

	RM:	Okay, well the industry’s changing a lot now, too.





	JM:	Yeah, they trying to force us out of getting the paper, the print paper. They want us to do it online every day. I’m one of the last holdouts, I wanna see the paper clean my fish on it.

	EM:	Monday’s paper’s really a Monday wrapper, it’s so thin. But anyway, I’ve had several notable experiences.

	RM:	Clearly.



	EM:	I won’t tell you anymore, I’ll let you ask me. RM:	[Laughter] Well I appreciate you sharing.

	EM:	No, no. I remember when I first went to Sealey, the kids, their parents were reluctant about having me, but there were other parents that wanted me to work with their children. And so one little girl, whose mother came and she was asking her daughter, each time: “Has your teacher come? No she hasn’t come yet. Has your teacher come?” She said: “No, she hadn’t come.” She said: “Has she come? No she’s not there but the maid is there.” That was me.

	RM:	Wow.



	EM:	Yeah, yeah, yeah. But I have another one, Terry. Terry’s now working with the, she’s an executive with – what airline?

	JM:	Airline. United.



	EM:	Third grade. And she remembers and she got a group together to come by lately, took me out, Jean – we went out to lunch and just wonderful. I mean, that’s recently, and by coincident we went to Gramling when? Two weeks ago?





	JM:	That’s where they sell the plants, Tallahassee, local nursery. RM:	Oh, okay.

	EM:	And the fella, Jean wanted some purple – JM:	Tomato plant.

	EM:	Tomato plants. And she put her name down for the waiting list, and when they came in Bobby-Lyn called her to tell her to come down and get it. And when she was getting it, what’d they say Jean?

	JM:	They asked me: “Are you a teacher?” I said: I remember dad teaching, my mother taught here, you know, forty years.” “Is her name Eva Mannings?” I said: “Yeah, [Unintelligible 37:21].” He said: “She taught me in third grade.” I said: “Well she’s right out here in the car.” They went bonkers, they came out and: “Oooh!” And this was what, last week? Uh-huh, last week, he said: “You taught me all the math I know.”

	RM:	[Laughter]



	EM:	I have an imprint on different situations, and I feel real good about it. I have not done many wrong things, but I feel done good thirty-eight and a half years.

	JM:	In the public system.



	EM:	In the public school. And all together, it’s about fifty-four. I taught prisoners for fourteen, I taught at my church as assistant principal for ten. And I taught at FAMU, the university, for seven. So when you add all those up you get quite a number.





	RM:	That you do. So can I ask, so how’d you end up going to FAMU? EM:	How did I get in?

	RM:	Yeah, what made you decide, and what kinda . . .



	EM:	They needed a reading teacher, that’s my specialty too, I’m certified in reading, and I knew one of the persons that was over the program, and she knew that I had retired. So she asked me to apply and I turned my PTA in, my resume in, and was selected, so [unintelligible 38:53]. And it was with ROTC and I stayed until that program faded out, and after that I had had quite a bit and I didn’t transfer, I probably could have transferred to another area, but I chose to sorta rest a while. So after seven years, I was an associate professor there, then, with ROTC and I see my ROTC fellas everywhere.

	RM:	And what about Sealey Elementary? How did that start?



	EM:	There were thirteen of us selected for integration, and so a group from University of Miami came in and worked with us about a month, to tell us what to expect when we went to an all-White school. So after we had gone through the training with the University of Miami, I was selected, and Mr. Mackleby, for some reason, selected me to come to Sealey. And, well.

JM: He was the principal. EM: He was the principal. RM:  Okay.

	EM:	And he selected me to come, and well, the rest was history.







RM:

And, what year was that around?

EM:

The lower, 1957.

RM:

Okay, [19]57.

EM:

Yeah. And I stayed there for quite a while. I retired from there in [19]81.

RM:

Okay, okay.

JM:

When did you go to Sealey?

EM:

It was [19]57.

JM:

Unh-uh.

EM:

No?

JM:

Sealey? [19]57? No.

RM:

Do you know when it was?

EM:

[19]58.

JM:

I don’t think it was in the [19]50s.

EM:

Oh, okay. I could check it out, then.

JM:

We need to confirm that, right. Because they didn’t integrate these schools until the [19]60s. We finished high school in [19]64, and they probably couple of years after that in Leon County integrated. So I’m thinking it was in the [19]60s, and

she went to Sealey and stayed there until [19]81. But we can confirm that.

EM:

Okay.





	RM:	Okay. And, so if I can ask, because you’ve talked about Movement activities, how did you start getting involved with the Movement? The Civil Rights Movement?

	EM:	I got involved with it through Reverend Steele. I was announcer at the church, for years, and I mean, he had a lot of confidence in me, and he told us about the Movement through Dr. King. And there was some church leaders that he wanted to meet, to be with him, and I was one of those church leaders, because I taught Sunday school there and I made the announcements there and well, we just had confidence in his leadership, the advisory group, and that’s how I got involved.

	RM:	I see. And can you describe Reverend Steele? I mean, what was he like as a person, and to work with?

	EM:	Very, very quiet. He wasn’t forceful, but he was a dynamic leader. He was a visionary prophet. He was sincere, and just a clean person. Very influential. He knew a lot of people and he knew how to get things done without fanfare, he didn’t like that, nah, nah, nah. I remember when the cross was burned in front of the house, he went out and he prayed while the cross was there. The Kl Klux had come by because the parsonage at that time was next door to the church. And, well, they had heard about the activities of SCLC, the Southern Christian Leadership, and they came by and burned a cross in it. Rather than get upset about it, like Tallahassee did, he went out there and prayed.

	RM:	Wow, that’s. EM:	Wonderful man.





	RM:	Yeah. I mean, that sounds like a very strong leader.



	EM:	Strong leader, strong leader. He was not emotional at all. In fact I’ve never seen him emotional, no. And he always had a positive message for everything, “It’ll be alright. We’ll overcome. Duh duh duh, let’s march. Let’s get off the bus.” And he started the bus boycott, which was successful after a year. And my husband was driving, he and Johnny Hearnd, and Eddie Barrington. There was a group of them that drove the domestics to their jobs. Very interesting.

	RM:	And what was your husband’s name? EM:	D.J. Initials only. Mannings.

	RM:	D.J. Mannings.



	EM:	Yes, he drove cab thirty-four.



	RM:	Okay. And you said you used to drive a cab, too? EM:	No.

	RM:	Oh, you just drove a car, okay, okay. But so they, well can you tell us about how the boycott started? Do you remember much of?

	EM:	The boycott started – you mean with the buses? RM:	Yes, the bus boycott, sorry.

	EM:	It started because the buses were not, they were not segregated – they were not integrated, they were segregated. And the domestics were the maids and the people who were going to work and they would not let them sit, they would make





them stand, and there would be extra seats where Whites would be on there. And they reported that anything that was going on that seemed to be segregated, they reported it at the meetings we had at Bethel Missionary Baptist Church every Thursday. And that was one of the chief complaints, we have to stand up when the bus is going. We have to stand up and there are Whites on there and there are seats where we could sit. And that’s what started it. He said: “No, no, no, no, no. We gonna ride the bus and we gonna integrate the bus.” And when we had two students from FAMU, they got on the bus, and sat, and they would not get up, and the driver of it, of Star Metro, was instructed that if that would happen we would arrest the persons. And those two students were arrested. And because they were arrested, that started the boycott.

	RM:	I see. Do you remember much about those two students? EM:	Very little.

	RM:	Okay.



	EM:	And then other students did the same thing, bus sit-in, and they were arrested. And that’s when those of us who were volunteers agreed to take food down to the jail, because they were on isolation at the jail, and we would take food down there for them. They didn’t keep them in there but about three months, but during that time they were segregated.

	RM:	And so how many people were cooking that food and taking it down? About? EM:	I can’t remember, but there was a group of us.





	RM:	There was a few people, then. EM:	Yeah.

	RM:	Okay. And so, who else were some of the major, kinda, leaders in the Movement that you remember?

	EM:	Father Brooks, Father David Brooks. RM:	David Brooks, okay.

	EM:	Reverend James Hudson. Reverend Mitt Rawlins. Reverend Dan Speed. Elwith



Jones. M.C. Williams. You had Father Brooks, Dr. Hudson, Mitt Rawlins, Dr. Williams, Dan Speed, Laura Dixie, Willie Mae Fisher, Inez Williams, there’s another one. Daisy Young. I can’t remember anybody else.

	RM:	That’s a lot of people, though, that’s, yeah. It took a lot of people I guess. EM:	It did, it did. Because they were leaders from the community.

	RM:	Were you nervous at all getting involved in the Movement in the beginning? EM:	No.

	RM:	No?



	EM:	Reverend Steele kept us, we watched his attitude and because he was a calm leader. He didn’t show it, and it transpired to us. And when we would meet he’d tell us: “Keep your calm, whatever you do, don’t get upset.” Because that would hurt us more than anything else, that retaliation. Bringing on unnecessary





frustration. So, no. Only thing about it, I told him, I couldn’t be nonviolent. So I stayed away from it.

	RM:	And if I can ask, I mean, I know some people have told me they knew there was segregation but it wasn’t until the Movement that they realized just how much anger there was, and how much. Did the White response kind of surprise you at all or did you already kinda know that would be, that that was there?

	EM:	I knew it was there, but I wasn’t aware of the amount of discomfort they had toward us. I called it discomfort, I don’t call it hate, I call it discomfort. And if you notice the folks in media here now, it’s sophisticated, but it’s right in Tallahassee. They keep having debates about this and debates about that, but there’s still a lot here. But, we’re moving in the right direction, but it’s gonna take some time.

	RM:	Yeah. What were your hopes for the movement when you first started getting involved?

	EM:	That it would improve. RM:	Okay.

	EM:	That it would improve with the betterment of us and for the generation coming along. And it has, we’ve moved way up. We’ve done a lot. We have. The Movement has brought a lot of changes, it has. It has brought about a lot of understanding, not misunderstanding, but understanding. I’ve heard them say, even at Sealey, “We didn’t know so and so and so. We didn’t know so and so and so. Yeah, so and so and so.” It has brought about a lot of change, a lot of understanding. Things I did not know about Caucasians, or Hispanics, I learned.





The culture is getting to be better, it is, for instance when I went to Sealey, I don’t drink coffee, that’s not my thing. Well most, practically everybody there would drink coffee. I made a mistake of telling one of the ladies I don’t drink coffee because it makes you Black, and that went all over the campus, and Mr.

Mackleby came and told: “Ms. Manning, what did you tell the ladies about coffee?” [Laughter] I said: “I told them I didn’t drink coffee because it make you Black.” He said: “Ms. Manning, go back and take that back.” He said: “Because those ladies are now bringing their coffee in thermos.” [Laughter] You know, they had this great big urn they could, or the janitor, would make the coffee, and it would be right there bubbling [Mimics Bubbling]. They wouldn’t drink it because they thought it was gonna make them Black. So one day in the lounge, reading the paper, I said: “I have an announcement.” [Laughter] I would always make it funny. I said: “I have an announcement,” everybody got quiet. I said: “That was a joke when I told y’all the coffee would make you Black.” “Eva, Eva.” I mean they had so much confidence in me they thought I was telling the truth. And they, honey, they went to that urn and [Mimics Pouring Sounds], all day long. They thought I was telling the truth. I said, now, he told me: “Ms. Mannings whatever you say in the lounge you got to be careful, because they believe exactly what you say.” I had to eat it up, and I told: “I have an announcement.” “Oh my god, she gone tell us something.” I said: “That was just a joke when I told y’all coffee would make you Black.” “Eva, really?” They went over to the coffee urn, just one cup after another. So that taught me, be factual, whatever you tell them, be very, very factual. Yeah.





	JM:	[Laughter].



	EM:	It has taught – stop laughing. It has taught me a lot of experience, a lot. I learned a lot. I learned how to give and how to take. I learned how to listen and I learned when to speak. You don’t just run off, you know, you learn to listen. Because everybody has an opinion and I learned how to agree to disagree. Because prior to that, I just thought whatever I said was gospel. You know, I had gotten that idea. But integration has taught me to listen. And you learn a lot, you will, you learn a lot. You don’t know it all now, I have a degree and a leadership degree and my masters and all and I still don’t know every – I read a lot, and I look at the TV, and I listen. And if you listen you learn something. Because you don’t know everything, you don’t. you know quite a bit, but you don’t know everything, no. I look at this, the Jeopardy program, you ever look at it?

	RM:	Uh-huh.



	EM:	This is a fellow on there now, he’s pretty close to two million. He has been on for twenty-four games, in fact he just got back from a vacation. And he knows, there’s a mystery to me how he, no matter what the question is, he knows. Now he attributes it to his grandmother, taking him to a library in the children’s department. But anyway. There’s a mystery somewhere. Anyway.

	RM:	Well, yeah. So, one question. Can I ask, how did you meet your husband? EM:	He was an iceman.

	RM:	Okay, okay.





	EM:	At that time we didn’t have refrigerators, and he was an iceman coming through FAMU’s campus. And being flip and fresh, there was a group of us that used to come by and wait for him to chip the ice to take to different dormitories, and we just started, I kept flirting with him and he kept flirting with me. And it amounted to something. And the rest is history.

	RM:	Neat.



	EM:	Very nice person. We fell in love and got married and when I graduated my family came from Miami to take me back, they already had a job there for me, and I told them I wasn’t going. And I didn’t go. I said, I’ve been in Tallahassee ever since [19]46. Happy, very happy. Got my family, I only had twins, and that’s one of them there. Oh yeah, very happy. That’s Jean.

	RM:	Ah yes. I mean, was it difficult to make the decision to go to FAMU? To attend it?



Or . . .



	EM:	No, no.



	RM:	You were just ready to . . .



	EM:	The counselor at Booker T. Washington High School, where I was a senior, had some blanks for you to fill out for scholarship from FAMU. And Florida State scholarship program. And, well, she brought it to us early in that school year and I filled it out and mine was selected as a winner, so I got all expense paid to come to FAMU, including transportation and all the trimmings, and so that’s how I got to FAMU. With that Florida State scholarship. And the counselor brought the





application in and passed them out, and I filled mine out and, I don’t know who did the selection, and well mine was selected and I got the scholarship.

	RM:	That works. Had you ever been that far from home before?



	EM:	Yes. You know, you remember I told you I was instrumental in working with different organizations at the school, and we got a chance to go places. Now the farthest we had been was to St. Augustine to the music festival. I had never been this far, no, not from Miami to Tallahassee. We went from Miami to St. Augustine.

	RM:	That’s a ways.



	EM:	Yeah, it is.



	RM:	I mean, were you nervous at all moving here?



	EM:	Yeah, yeah, yeah. I didn’t know what in the world to expect. And when we got here, they met us, they told us what time to be here, and they met us at the bus station and brought us back on this great big bus from the bus station to FAMU. And, well, we were freshmen, green as grass. Just, and at that time, they had activities planned for us for a week. And, well, the rest is history.

	RM:	Does anything stand out about your time at FAMU when you were attending that you’d want to share? Any of the professors or any of the things you did?

	EM:	Hmm, those were happy days because I was so involved with prayer meeting and the choir and the FAMU, the newspaper, the newspaper, the choir.

	JM:	First yearbook.



	EM:	Yeah, the yearbook, we had. Our group was the first yearbook at FAMU.





	RM:	Okay, okay.



	EM:	We had a lot of history. And there was a group of us, we used to, we would, not rabble-rousers, but we kept a lot going. And we ran the campus. If you wanted to win something, you’d get in touch with the Gashouse Gang, that was us.

	RM:	The Gashouse Gang.



	EM:	Oh yeah, the Gashouse Gang. We had fun, good, clean fun. I just remember FAMU for a lot of things. They taught me how to give and how to take, how to be without food and how to get food. Every Sunday we’d go there and we sat with the football players, you had table assignments. You can’t forget that. And we would try to get our food before they got there because when they get there, and the food was self-service, and the rest is history. But now some of the football players would look out for you. They’d: “Nah man, wait a minute, let Eva get hers.” It was a historic [unintelligible 01:01:28]. It wasn’t where the football players would eat by themselves, no they ate with us, and we ate what they left, which was nothing. Oh, but those were happy days, they really were. And when we got to be seniors, we could leave the campus, but before then we had to wear the uniform. Now it’s different. We wore White tops and blue pants for three years. The first year you wore your skullcap, orange and green cap, they knew you were a freshman. And you couldn’t go to town unless a senior went with you, oh there were restrictions, but we didn’t have crime. And we didn’t have any cars, we walked. From FAMU up downtown. But those were good days, memorable days. Yeah, yeah.





	RM:	They sound it. Can I ask how you got the name the Gashouse Gang?



	EM:	We were just rowdy. Oh yeah, we just funny, we didn’t bother anybody, but we were just funny, we had fun, we told jokes.

	JM:	How did you get the name, Gashouse?



	EM:	The name? Elery gave us that name, Gashouse. JM:	One of them.

	EM:	And there was a TV program on there that we would try to emulate, doing little silly things like hiding, what did we hide? We’d hide your, we had some cards or something, we had – to get in some programs you had to have a card, and we’d get somebody’s card – just joking – we’d get your card and hide it. If we weren’t going we didn’t want you to go, something like that, just fun. We weren’t gangsters, no.

	RM:	Oh yeah, yeah.



	EM:	I don’t know how we got it, Elery gave us that name. Elery. There was about six of us, from the Miami area. We just had fun, plenty of it. And then, Nancy’s still living, I’m still living, Jenny’s still – there’re three of us still living, the rest of them have gone on. Okay?

	RM:	Well, so were you going to Bethel when you went to FAMU or how did you start going there?

	EM:	I went to Bethel when I lived over town and the twins were born. The lady across the street was an usher at Bethel, and I wanted to start going to church, in 1947,





they were born in February. And she told me: “Come on, I’ll help you with the babies.” And we had a big carriage, my aunt had sent me a double carriage, so she folded it up and put it in her car and I went to Bethel and joined Bethel in August the 12th, 1947, and I’ve been there ever since. But, Bee Ford carried me to church with her, she was an usher, and she carried me to church along with them and we’ve been there ever since.

	RM:	It just felt right to be there or?



	EM:	Oh, yeah, they were very, very nice. I mean, it was something. The birth of the twins startled Tallahassee, they were the first ones born at Dr. Campbell’s hospital, there was a Black hospital. That’s where Bethel Academy is now, that was a hospital. And they were the first twins born there, and they just startled Tallahassee when they were born. Wherever we went with a double carriage just, you know, and for them oh my goodness it was something unusual. “What, what is that?” You know, oh yeah.

	JM:	See that was on the front page of the Tallahassee Democrat. RM:	Wow, that’s, so that really made news.

	EM:	Yes it did. Still making news [Laughter]. She already know, Jean. JM:	This is Momma’s class, here she is right here, at – this is Barn right? EM:	Uh-huh.





	JM:	Right, she taught at Barn. All of these folks, and this is her wall of fame. Momma and Shirley Chisholm, Wilma Rudolph, Cheryl Millam, Lawton Chiles, Rosa Parks.

	RM:	Oh, wow.



	JM:	And this is Dr. Jay. And this guy went to FAMU with me, he was in Designing Women, Meshach Taylor. His hair died out a couple years ago, but he went to FAMU with us. So this is Momma’s wall of fame.

	RM:	Wow, that’s quite a wall of fame.



	EM:	Lawton Chiles and I were working on a Habitat for Humanity, and we went up there and he was hammering, I was hammering, he came over there and I bust his finger.

	JM:	Momma busted his finger. RM:	Oh [Laughter].

	EM:	They had to do first aid on him. “Ms. Manning, you broke, bust his finger. Oh Ms.



Manning she bust his finger!” [Laughter]



	RM:	And so you met Rosa Parks. Did you meet her during the Movement or was that a later thing only or?







	EM:	That was during a later time. Jean where’s the picture with Rosa Parks? JM:	That was when she speaking –





	EM:	Right over there on the table. RM:	Okay.

EM:  She was a hostess at a sorority – at the Black history at FSU, and we belonged to the same sorority, and so our sorority went over there to greet her. And well, when it was time to take her pictures, she took a picture.

JM:  This was in her olden days. She was a speaker, Momma went over: [Whispered] “Get a picture.”

	EM:	I thought I did it Jean. JM:	Yes you did. [Laughter]

	EM:	Oh dear. But I’ve had some experiences. RM:	I can see that.

	JM:	This is me, this is in [unintelligible 01:08:37]. I won a ping-pong tournament, back I was ten years old. I see these gentlemen all the time here, but they said: “Oh you didn’t win.” I said: “Well why am I on the picture?” [Laughter].

	RM:	Well, and so you were saying, so Dr. King did visit the church, did visit Bethel.



	EM:	Oh yes, he came there once a month with his group. Reverend Abernathy came, Jose Williams came. It was four of them. He came, Abernathy, Jesse Jackson came one time, and Jose Williams came. He would come down every once a month to tell, he had told Reverend Holmes, he’d tell Reverend Steele, what to





do and he’d come down to see whether we were implementing it and how were doing with the march for the buses and with the march for this, that, and the other. Well he came down, just about once a month. And every time he would come he’d look for their sister that said she couldn’t be nonviolent, I’d be right behind him in the choir. “Have you changed your mind?” “Oh no, no, no.” I joined SCLC, but I told him: “No, no, no, um-hm.” He couldn’t convince me. “Oh, sister, you can’t do it?” I had my mind set.

	RM:	Gotta be true to who you are. EM:	Oh yes, oh yes.

	RM:	So what was Dr. King like to interact with? And Reverend Abernathy?



	EM:	Very personable, very, very personable. And, I think he felt sorry for me. He’d look at me with mournful eyes [Laughter], “As sister say, here I am preaching and you are stouthearted and you still are, where is she?” Reverend Steele says: “She’s right back there.” He wouldn’t shake his head, but he’d just look [Laughter]. Oh dear. And then we’d sing “We Shall Overcome It.” He’d look at me all, as if to say, “Come on now, come on.” Alright.

	RM:	Well you know, you’ve talked about how you supported the movement even though you didn’t march. I think that’s one of those stories people don’t hear as much because they’re looking so much at what’s on the street, they don’t realize all of the work that went into supporting it. Can you talk about what you and some of the other people that weren’t marching were doing to help support the protesters and?





	EM:	Yes. There was a group called the Missionary, Bethel Missionary Baptist Church, a group of women, and we would get together on just about every Wednesday to decide who was gonna take what. I decided to take peanut butter and jelly sandwiches, because I was still teaching, and I was teaching at the prison, and I was selling world books, and I knew that I wouldn’t have time to cook. So my thing was to take sandwiches and milk. We agreed on who was going to take what, there was a group of us. And we decided. The Sunday school teachers decided. They met with us. It was about, quite a few ladies, that decided what they were gonna take at a certain time. We didn’t take it all at one time, we scattered it so that they would have something. And quite an experience, quite an experience.

	RM:	That sounds it. Because that’s a lot of organization people don’t even think about today. A lot of people walked but it’s a lot of work.

	EM:	No, no. Steve had a knack for organizing. He could organize the children; he was the one that decided Sunday school should be divided. The little ones, and the card class, and he would provide so that there was a little promotional exercise from 1 group to another group. He was just an organizer.

	RM:	A true leader. EM:	Very modest.

	RM:	That usually makes for a better leader.



	EM:	Very, very modest. Even during his later days when he was sick. He was modest.



Mhm.





RM:  I mean, I think you've answered this to some extent, but just what made him such a strong leader, such a good leader?

EM: HIs faith. RM:  His faith.

EM: His faith, he's a strong believer in faith, and I think his educational background gave him that too. He was a student of Moas* college, and I think they must’ve instilled that faithfulness, I don’t know this to be true, but he would mention the activities at Mohan a lot of times. But he had strong faith, if he had been set on something, he just believed through faith, it would happen.

RM:  Can I ask about your experience? whether it was your parents, or grandparents, or teachers, or were there things in your life that prepared you for the movement once it came?

	EM:	No, I was just influenced by what Revered Still* was telling us to look out for. He gave us some propositions on things that should happen and things that would happen, if we went the way he wanted us to go, and he had so much influence on our minds that it was just our mindset that we were gonna do some of the things he wanted us to do. [inaudible 01:15:41] these Sunday school teachers didn't have any idea of what civil rights was all about, but he drew up, and by the training he had with Dr. King, they drew up some things that could happen here in Tallahassee, the buses could be segregated, you know, integrated, and large counties could be mixed. We could change clothes in the dress shop, there was a lot of things going on. We didn't have just walked - we couldn't change our





clothes in [inaudible 01:16:19] in the shops. We couldn't try out hats there. We couldn’t try our shoes there; they'd let us bring them home. We couldn’t sit at the restaurants, we had to go to the back door to get coffee. Those were some of the things that were pressing, and ell, we just got ready for it. We had students sit there and get arrested. We had Reverend that would go and want to try on dresses, want the dress, but they wouldn’t try them on, There were a lot of things that he changed.

	RM:	That’s a lot.



	EM:	Yeah, proud of it. Proud of it. Quite a bit, but it did very well. Go to the lunchroom now, go do the lunch counter's now to eat, and ask the ones with the dogs, and [inaudible 01:17:28]

[laughing]



	EM:	They had the sign that said - what is it? What does that sign say? "Pet involved" - what does it say? Pet friendly. Okay. So, we've come a long way. We have. Are there other questions?

	RM:	I can think of a few if you're okay - EM:	Oh yeah.

RM: We don’t wanna take too much of your time. EM: How are we running with time, Mr. Marcus? MC:  Fifteen more minutes.

	EM:	Fifteen more minutes, he said.





	RM:	Then, that’ll work. Then, um, so one question, do you remember any of the Black-owned businesses at that time too?

	EM:	We had the Red-ride* Cafe, the Brand Service*, the Onis* service station, Chicken-Shack*, Saber* service station, [inaudible 01:18:48] service station, Richardson Hall, Money Barbershop, Money Johnson's Barbershop. Artistic barbershop. Those were the ones that used to be - there were others.

	RM:	Did you have a favorite among those?



EM: Oh yeah, we went to Chicken-Shack quite often to eat when we were hungry. Brian's sandwiches had the best sausage sandwiches in the world. Oh, gosh. And we used to get ice cream from the economy drug store, which is still - oh, yeah, that store is still open. Economy drug store. One of the few that are still open, and -

RM:  That’s impressive.



	EM:	One of the few. Artistic barbershop and the beauty shop still open, they're there together. But the rest of them are gone, the Renaissance building is there, first down Luke's, dismal. It's really depressing when they go through there because you used to see prosperity there, and now it's housing for families and housing for students, and it's not considered low-income anymore. One or two dots where you can see the minority there, but it's just different. It is.

	RM:	So, if I can ask, because as you've explained, there were a lot of things changed for the better, but there’s still, there’s still some changes we need to - we're not all the way there yet, I guess.





	EM:	We need to find something, lure some factories, or developments or something for jobs. And for trades, our younger people need - everybody is not college material. We need some training situations, where they can learn to do things with their hands, and with their minds. Now, we have lively, and we have Godly* who's instructing their students for welding, and air conditioning, and construction, but we don’t have enough of that going on. We need something to lure our young people into doing something, to cut down on the crime. I don’t mind if it gets busy, and there’s some reason why there’s a gun on every corner. Everyone’s got a gun. We need courses like anger management, somebody to teach anger management on the corner. They’re not coming here, they’re not coming to the community center, they’re not coming to the church. Go to them. Go where they are. They are there. That little crew you see there sitting on the corner, those loitering, they want help. There's some out there on Warner* street now. They are there. And we're not helping, we put them in jail. We're not helping them at all.

[other people enter the room] [background noise]

	EM:	Look at him, oh my goodness. That's [inaudible 01:23:04] we have a relation with him. Everyone uses my route, they have so many routes per day, and if they have a chance, they always use my route to come in, and to say hello. See, he brought the dogs, I can see them.

	RM:	Cute.





	EM:	Monday, there's a different one. There's two. Tuesday's group is very interesting. It's an integrated group, now before they came, [inaudible 01:23:34] brought me a slip. Asked me if it would be alright if they would come. Just as nice as they could be. Tuesday group then, just as - oh, wonderful people. Wonderful. Oh, Wednesday, that's - in fact, all of them are very nice, and they use us last so they can stop and talk. And one, Phyllis - they changed Phyllis' route so she could come, and oh, she tried to. But I'll tell you what she did. She left a number with us, and she is now - she's had the training for taking - if you need to go to the doctor, what else did she say she could do, Jean? Doctor - take you to the doctor

- oh, she could come and sit with you. But she's no longer - I'm no longer on her list, but she wanted me to know she was available. She has called to see how I was doing. All of them get attached to us, for some reason.

	RM:	I think I can understand that.



	EM:	Oh dear, thank you, thank you, thank you.



	RM:	Thank you, I guess my last question would be what do you think is important about these histories, for people to understand in the future?

	EM:	It's so important. You know where you’ve been, but you don’t know where you're going. That's my thing, and let’s tell them, so it won’t be astonishing to them to know that Blacks have done things. Alderman* has done something. Matt Singer has done something. And everybody couldn’t be a Booker T. Washington, but on the background, teach them. They don’t know. But we need to stat with our counselors. If we start with them, they are the ones that influence the children,





and the parents. Just let it be a common thing, to say something about facts. Don’t get up there and scratch your head, and don’t know what you’re talking about, cause some of them know better. They do. but we need to let them know that such and such thing happened at such and such time, and because of their contribution, this is why you have a refrigerator, or the shoes, or the stoplight, they don’t know. They really don’t know. But if we expose them to things, they’ll remember, just like I remember that about my first teacher, it can be remembered if you teach them. And we have a young group of parents who are too young to be a parent, by their grandparents. So, I mean you’re running into that, but consider that, it might be repetitious, where you got to say the same thing over and over and over again. But let's start repeating. Let's start somewhere, repeating the history, but anyway. It's been nice having you gentleman here, I hope that we have not bored you.

	RM:	Certainly not.



	EM:	But it's been a real pleasure and an honor to have been selected to come. I mean, at ninety-four.

	JM:	The honor is ours.



	EM:	In less than six months, I'll be ninety-five, so. RM:	Wow.

	EM:	I hope that I've made a contribution. RM:	You certainly have.





	EM:	I hope that I've been an asset, and not a liability. RM:	Not in the least, I can-

	EM:	Don't go out behind that door and say "oh, she was terrible." RM:	Nope, I can promise you.

	EM:	Well, you know if he'll come up, it goes out.



[laughing]



	RM:	Well, so at the end of our interviews, we usually give space to share if there was anything else before we stop the recording. Any other story we didn’t cover.

	EM:	I thought that I had given you some aggressive messages to let you know how grateful I am for having you come, and I am honored to have been selected to come. I wish you God's speed in what you're doing, it's really a tremendous job you gentlemen are tackling, but it can be done. It can be done. It's a slow process, but don't give it up, because there’s a lot to be learned and taught. So you got great responsibilities, and good luck.

	RM:	well, thank you. Thank you very much. [End of Interview]

	Audit-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, January 21, 2021 Final-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, February 3, 2021