AAHP 184; Hall & Hall; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 184 Rebecca Hall and Nathaniel Hall African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Ryan Morini on September 22, 2011 1 hour, 49 minutes | 48 pages



Abstract: Nathaniel Hall grew up in Rochelle, Florida, and he learned quite a bit of the area history over the years. Health problems prevented him from speaking as freely as he might have wished in this interview, but he shares what he can with the help of his wife Rebecca. She also shares what she remembers from when she first arrived in Rochelle in 1938, including the nearby families, businesses, condition of the roads, and athletics and recreation. As Mr. Hall gets tired, Mrs. Hall shares more of her story; she was the first bus driver for the Black students out in the Grove Park/Rochelle/Hawthorne area. Mr. Hall fixed up a panel-body truck with benches in the back because the county would not provide a vehicle initially; as years went by, the county started to provide increasingly better vehicles until she was driving a full school bus. She stopped driving buses when schools closed for integration, and then began working in the school cafeterias. She also describes her own childhood, growing up about five miles south of Micanopy, Florida, near the Alachua County/Marion County line. She closes by sharing the story of how the two of them met.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Segregation; Transportation]



































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 184

Interviewee: Rebecca Hall and Nathaniel Hall Interviewer: Ryan Morini

Date: September 22, 2011



	NH:	I can remember [inaudible 0:04] can. RH:	[Whispering] As loud as you can.

	NH:	I remember grandfather. I remember we had a well. We had a well, and we had to get water, it was on the— but anyway, it was just made out of wood, put together, little pressed bucket. On the end of that pole. And you would just sit that thing out there, and then it down. And it would take the water and bring it up, and make that swing around, and you could go down there and get the bucket or the pail or whatnot, and that’s where we had to get water in those days.

	M:	I see.



	RH:	What kind of life did the Afro-Americans have in this area?



	NH:	Oh, we was farming. All this, all this new. Yeah. We would fast out and playing on this stuff. Get it, and put it in the ball, and the ball in it, sweet potatoes and put them in a basket.

	RH:	[Whispering] Little louder.



	NH:	Hang potatoes, and put them up under the house. And onions, you’d put them up under the house. And with all of that, save it for the next year.

	RH:	How did Afro-Americans get along with White people during that time? Kind of bring us up on that.

NH:  They, we would, White people would let us farm from let us see, a half-crop, share crop. And we was Black people, and they could tell us anything, and we would believe it, because it was a good sharecropping    

	RH:	[Whispering] Talk louder.





	NH:	And we made good. He wouldn’t tell us the [inaudible 2:44]. They were the same. Well, we didn’t have—they did good this year, but next year, “we hope you do better!” They would only give us a little bit of what we made, what the sharecrop was. And they share, was never gave to us. We didn’t know we was cheated.

	RH:	You was cheated out of your portion of your earnings. NH:	Uh-huh. Right. Right.

	RH:	How did they get along otherwise, Nathaniel? Back in those days?



	NH:	Well, we got along all right, because most—we didn’t know we was cheated. They would just pretend along, what they wanted us to have. But we wasn’t equal. We wasn’t equal in fact as sharecroppers.

	M:	So, how much would you—



	RH:	Yeah, you ask him questions, and he’ll answer questions.



	M:	Ah, okay. Okay. Well, about how much land would you grow on? How much land did most people—

	NH:	Ten, twenty acres, something like that. About like. M:	Okay.

	RH:	Okay, when the Afro-Americans were freed, how much land—when your granddaddy came down?

	NH:	I think it twenty-five acres, or five acres, more like, than the Negro. RH:	If you remember, it was forty acres, mule and a plow.

	NH:	Wagon.



	RH:	Wagon. That’s what they gave you, each person, to farm on.





	NH:	Each person had twenty-five. That’s what I know of it. RH:	Question? I can’t—

	NH:	My granddaddy have sense to cut out a log, blind that log, stood a big railroad, big rail down to ten to twenty. Had a radio. But we had a good line of logs.

	RH:	Your granddaddy was brought to St. Augustine as a slave. NH:	Yeah.

	RH:	Who was he bought by? NH:	Zett Rouse.

	RH:	Zett Rouse. And they brought him here. And he was able to choose his own name, rather than go in the Zetreils’ name.

	NH:	But he have to come, his name was Ras Palatkacome. And they put that along, and then the mail would go from Gainesville to Jacksonville. And where he changed horses, he was on Palatka pond, and that pond is still there.

Named Palatka pond. That’s where they would change horses.



	RH:	The land was out around the Palatka pond. NH:	Uh-huh, yes. Change horses.

	RH:	And, do you have any idea when this road was put through here, through Rochelle?

	NH:	No, I don’t have any.



	RH:	You don’t remember when it was, now? I know you’ve told me about it.





	NH:	Yeah. But I don’t remember about it, when they put it through. But I can remember about changing horses. The team would change horses on Palatka pond. Going from Gainesville to Palatka.

	M:	And when you’re mentioning the road, you mean 234, outside?



	RH:	234. 234. He helped cut the right-of-way. Mmhm. For 234. But I came over here in [19]38, and it was still a dirt road. It was paved since that time. I can’t remember when. It was a dirt road, but I can’t.

	NH:	[inaudible 8:45] RH:	Yeah.

	M:	I see. Where did you come from?



	RH:	From Micanopy. Micanopy. From South Carolina to Micanopy, then came over here.

	M:	Ah, okay. I see.



	RH:	Ask more questions.



	M:	[Laughter] All right. Well, I should probably introduce you to the tape at this point. So, I’m speaking to Nathaniel and Rebecca Hall, in their home, here on County Road 234 in Rochelle. Okay. So—well, and you—how many of the roads were dirt around here back then, when you moved here?

RH: All of them. M: All of them. RH:  All of these.

M:   Even 20 down there?





	RH:	20 was paved. Uh-huh, that was paved. But the 234 was dirt. And 2082 was dirt.



It was recently paved; in the last, oh, three or four years it was paved.



	M:	Oh, okay. That’s very recent.



	RH:	Uh-huh, very recent. Up to Grove Park. From Grove Park, it was paved up—from Grove Park to Hawthorne, it was paved before then.

	M:	Oh, okay.



	RH:	Uh-huh. Something else I wanted to say about that. Something I can’t remember, I had to say! [Laughter]

	M:	Well, so, on the subject of transportation, you mentioned that it was a wagon road. I mean, how did people get—did anyone out here have a car back in the [19]30s, or—?

	RH:	He was about the first one that had—now, I don’t know whether White or Black, I don’t know. You was the first Black, right?

	NH:	Uh-huh.



	RH:	Afro-American, whichever term you want to use, you know. He was the first. A truck or car?

	NH:	Truck.



	RH:	Truck. Yeah.



	NH:	T-Model.



	RH:	T-Model truck, hallelujah.



	M:	When was that, that you got the truck? NH:	Truck—

	RH:	About when?





	NH:	That was—



	RH:	It was before [19]38. Because I came over here in [19]38.



	M:	Okay, already had the truck. So, what did you use the truck for? I mean, did you—

	RH:	They farmed. They had about fifty-two or –three acres of farmland out there NH:	Right.

	RH:	Yeah, and they farmed. They ran a farm. Uh-huh. And then, he would do little piecework for other people. But they farmed there on the end.

	NH:	Right. Right.



	RH:	And he finally start farming and working at the doctor’s center on 8th Avenue and 10th Street. He did that for the doctors, cleaning yards, after then. He had his home built in [19]71.

	M:	This one right here we’re in.



	RH:	This right here, in [19]71. We married in [19]61. We were living in Grove Park. We came here in [19]71. So we celebrated our fiftieth wedding anniversary few weeks ago.

	M:	Congratulations!



	RH:	Uh-huh. He’s ninety-eight; I’m eighty-nine. [Laughter]



	NH:	Yeah. I couldn’t have nobody else. No better treatment than Rebecca. I’m one of the guys been well-treated, [inaudible 13:05] she very splain to me. And I appreciate her. We never have had a falling out. We always got love one another.





	RH:	Yeah. Wages were real slim, like higher-ra. We use the term. But he would— Owens-Illinois at that time, I think it’s Palm Creek now, that owned all these property right here. But it was Owens Illinois at that time, and they did not sell land. They would swap. But they wouldn’t sell. He owned some property in Grove Park, and he swapped for this on this side, and that on that side.

	M:	I see.



RH:  Yeah, uh-huh. There’s a sister there, sister right behind that truck, and his son down there. Then another round the corner there. But he and the son still own this. Yeah.

M:   That’s a lot of family in one place.



RH:  Family right here. All this is family. Yeah, they wanted to have the property to build. Yeah.

M:   And that was also—when was that, around what time?



RH:  We came here in [19]71, so—Mabel and those came up here about five years after we did?

NH:  Uh-huh.



RH:  Something like that. Then the other sister two or three years, and her son. After he got old enough, he gave him that down there. The mobile home, I guess they call it, off of a meagre salary. Yeah.

M:  So the—what were the towns like when you first got here? I mean, Rochelle, Grove Park—

RH: Rochelle used to have a café store—what else, Nathaniel? NH:  There was a post office.





	RH:	Post office. Yeah.



	NH:	Post office. Way back, they had a cut back.



RH:  And most of this was before [19]38, because I came over here in [19]38 and all of it was gone except the depot. It was right up—you can’t imagine, it was in such a small place. It was right up through there, was the depot. It’s a bike path now.

The railroad track is a bike path. But the depot sat right up there. Yeah. And that was—it was still there in [19]38. But the store, post office, and all of that was gone.

	NH:	And the train. They had a roller track for the train.



	RH:	And a train table, they called it, right up there where the train make its turn to go back to Palatka.

	M:	I see. And what did Grove Park look like back then?



	RH:	Grove Park had a store—no, Grove Park had two stores. Waite’s—I can’t think of Mr. Waites’ name, we called him “Bud” Waites, but his name wasn’t Bud Waites. And then, Mr. Edwards. Mr. Waites and Mr. Edward had stores. There was a post office, train depot—the train ran through there. There weren’t any cafés or anything there when I came in [19]38. That’s about all was there. We had to go to Hawthorne to purchase food or whatever, mostly. Or Gainesville. Transportation was very slim. Mr. Pfeiffer from this little place up here about five miles. They called it Pfeiffer. And it was turpentine whatchacallit? [Laughter] Turpentine—

	NH:	Turpentine still.



	RH:	Well, they had a turpentine still there. But they called the place Pfeiffer.





	NH:	Uh-huh, Pfeiffer.



	RH:	After Mr. Pfeiffer. And they, he would let the people have a truck on Saturdays to go to town to purchase food. Yeah. That was their transportation. But there was a few cars outside of Pfeiffer that went to Hawthorne or Gainesville to purchase like that. Living was very hard back then.

	NH:	Yes, it was.



	RH:	We got along good because we had the farm. And we lived mostly off of the farm. Didn’t have to do all of this going to town too much. We had, like sugar, and flour, things of that sort. But as far as grits, meal, meat, we had it right there at home. We had to take it to the mill, take the corn to the mill and get grits and meal.

	M:	Did you make your own bacon and stuff?



	RH:	Yes, uh-huh. Bacon, ham. Made the best from the cow. We’d take the—kill the hog and take them to Newberry? Was it Newberry that time?

	NH:	No. No, we didn’t. Was Hawthorne.



	RH:	Take it to Hawthorne at that time. But since then— NH:	Yeah, Newberry.

	RH:	Took it to Newberry, to the—I don’t know what they called it. Meat-curing place. NH:	Meat tillery.

	RH:	But I think they still have that place in Newberry, right? Where you cure meat. M:	Yeah, I think I’ve seen that. There’s a sign up about deer now and stuff, I guess.

	RH:	Yeah. It was, the folk who lived on the farm got along pretty fair, but other than that they did turpentine. All that was woods out there, and they was draw the





resin, they call it, and then take it up here to Pfeiffer: still it and whatever else they do to it, they send it off. This was mostly what they called turpentine people lived through here. People who worked in the turpentine. Yeah.

	M:	And so, I guess that was what you did if you didn’t have the land to farm?



	RH:	That’s what they did. That’s exactly what they did. And when the mill shut down up to Pfeiffer, then the people had to move to Gainesville, Hawthorne, Grove Park, somewhere where they could do a little better maybe. Yeah. Other than that, it was—most of the people was turpentine people, we called them. People who worked in turpentine. And I think the women—I don’t, there was some kind of transportation, they would go to Gainesville and work to the laundry. I don’t remember what the transportation was.

	NH:	It was a truck. A bus. Yeah.



	RH:	Yeah. And they would take them to the laundry. Do you remember what the laundry was?

	NH:	Yeah.



	RH:	And that’s where they worked. NH:	I forget the name of that.

	RH:	Because there were a few White people around here who hired maids or whatever. But it was very few. There were the Tillmans, the—

	NH:	Zettreiler.



	RH:	Zettreiler. What was the man up there? NH:	Tillman.

	RH:	No, no. The big place up there. Right straight across the road.





	NH:	Oh. Oh.



	RH:	He had, what was he staying? Grove trees. Just can’t think of the man’s name now. He had a big farm right straight across there.

	M:	Across 2082?



	RH:	Across the track, right—this, 234, if it didn’t turn, it would go right straight across.



The big place up there.



	NH:	Perry field.



	RH:	Perry field. Mr. Perry. And Mr. Perry—Mrs. Perry, after Mr. Perry died, gave the cemetery land down there, is that right?

	NH:	Mmhm.



	RH:	Give the land—it’s on 234, going to Micanopy. Mrs. Perry gave the land to the cemetery down, they call it the—

	NH:	Oak Ridge.



	RH:	Oak Ridge Cemetery. Yeah. That was given by Mrs. Perry. M:	When was that?

	RH:	You know, the sign is there. [Laughter] Do you remember? But it was way back— it was before I came over here.

	NH:	It’s a plaque. It’s a plaque that on 234. RH:	It’s a big old sign.

	NH:	Can’t even remember when it was given and the governor, Governor Perry.



	RH:	And Governor Perry is buried down there in the Oak Ridge. That was the fourth or fifth governor of Florida. He had this big tombstone and then somebody came





on and took the top part off of it. It’s a big—took it off, took the top part off of Governor Perry’s tombstone.

	M:	So when you moved here, were there only White people buried there, or—?



	RH:	No, no. She gave half to—the half toward Micanopy is for Afro-Americans. And the other half, now—that’s right—and the other half is White. And it’s sad to say, you wouldn’t think it, but the clean part is Afro-Americans. And the bushy part is the White people. It seems unnatural, but it is, that’s the way it is. Yeah, that part, they don’t keep it clean. And I think, maybe, it was on the account of a few who didn’t want anybody to go in there.

	M:	Ah.



	RH:	A few people of the Zettreilers kept theirs real clean. Who else? I know the Zettreilers always kept theirs real clean. There was somebody else who kept theirs, I can’t remember now who it was. The Tillmans. The Tillmans. But other than that, it’s grown up in bushes. Mmhm.

	M:	And so the White families here also—they did farming, or they did the sharecropping? Or what’s—?

	RH:	They did what, Nathaniel? What did White people do here mostly? NH:	It was, they would grow down here.

	RH:	Farming. Sharecropping? NH:	Yeah.

	RH:	Afro-Americans did the work on the sharecropping. And he was trying to say that they would send, put the stone on the depot up here, send it off. When it come back, the Afro-Americans didn’t know, and most of them couldn’t read, so you





just got cheated out. “We didn’t make anything this year, but hopefully we’ll make something next year.” That’s the way things went. But, God is good. [Laughter] He kind of brought you over this little hump. Yeah.

	M:	So—but you guys were farming, right? So did a lot of people come over to your house for dinners?

	RH:	No, no, no, no. No, no. No. Believe it or not, the people who worked in turpentine, they could eat better than we could. Because I think they kind of got things on time, you know. The bossman. So, they were able to eat a little better than we were in a way. Yeah. But all ours came off the farm. Were you saying something?

	NH:	Just, they didn’t give us money. They give us “babbits,” they called. RH:	At the commissary.

	NH:	Mmhm.



	RH:	That was the little store. Commissary. M:	The commissary was where?

	RH:	At Pfeiffer, where the turpentine. Yeah. That was the name, that’s what they called the little store there. Commissary. And you didn’t get money, even if you paid in money. Your change was what they called “babbits.”

	NH:	Yeah, babbits.



	RH:	Yeah, like, quarters, or nickels, or whatever. It was a little round—you couldn’t spend it anywhere else. They had that peach. [Laughter]

	M:	I guess so! So did you go to town much, in terms of going to Hawthorne, or Gainesville, or—





	RH:	Usually, going to town was mostly on Saturdays, right? NH:	Mmhm.

	RH:	And that’s about—



	NH:	The truck, turpentine, on the truck. Load on the back, go on on the truck.



	RH:	And people who did not work for Pfeiffer, or for the turpentine people, he mostly carried them to town. Because he had the only transportation.

	NH:	Truck.



	RH:	Yeah, I mean the other van, the Pfeiffer truck. You’d have no other transportation. So I say, God has just blessed him all the way, because I look at him sometimes, and say to him, I wrote the checks, but I still don’t understand how he build this house. My brother is a licensed contractor. He build the house. He build all of these houses. My baby brother, two years younger than I am.

Licensed contractor. And he build the houses. But I’m thinking—we had two children. I’m thinking he wasn’t even looking at us. I think he was thinking about what he was doing for the children, and did it a little cheaper [Laughter]. Because we—the first portion of the house, this is new. Newer. And the garage. This was the garage. Had a little porch that came about along there, and looked like it was about this wide. That was the first that was here. He always wanted a porch. And I’m thinking at his age, he was too old to get under another debt. And I argued, and argued, and he would sit around and look sad, and say, “I’ve always wanted a porch.” There’s the guilty conscience saying, “If he die and you left here, you going have guilt to carry to your grave.” I say, “Get the porch.”

	M:	It’s a nice porch.





	RH:	It’s the porch. So, when he got the porch, then that became another garage. So this was the garage. But he made it.

	NH:	I made it.



	RH:	When he got up to six dollars an hour, he was ready to retire. When he got up to that, he was ready to retire. So. And he paid for each portion on his retirement. And I still can’t see how you did it! [Laughter] Can’t see. And my brother said this and the garage—because material had gone up so, had cost nearly as much as the whole house. Just this and the garage. And I say it was a blessing to have a brother who was a contractor.

	NH:	Thank you Jesus!



	RH:	[Laughter]



	NH:	Thank you Jesus, thank you Jesus.



	RH:	It’s a blessing, yes. He made it. He made it. Ninety-eight—and the doctor says he’s in good health! Arthritis got his legs, that’s why he’s in his wheelchair. But he’s in good health. I say, “That’s better than you can say for me!” [Laughter] Yeah, that’s better than you can say for me.

	NH:	Thank God for blessings.



RH:  Yeah. God’s still good to you, boy. And he worries about he lost one shoe: I say, “No, you didn’t lose the shoe, I threw it in the garbage.” He has a sore on his toe. And we didn’t know the other shoe had a little knot inside. And that’s what put the sore on his toe. [Laughter] So we threw that shoe away.





I really want to say something else about the place, but I don’t know—oh, his grandfather, donated—Albert Hall—did he donate the property out there for the church?

	NH:	Uh-huh, yeah. And Hannah Cote. RH:	They first was in a brush harbor? NH:	Mmhm, bread harbor.

	RH:	Start in a brush harbor. And then, they had the twenty by twenty? Was it twenty by twenty?

	NH:	Mmhm, yeah.



	RH:	Mold.



	NH:	That’s right, Mold. East book.



	RH:	That’s right Bode’s. The building was twenty by twenty. Then eventually, they built a newer church, and since I’ve been over here they build the one that’s out there now. And it’s named Hall’s Chapel, because his grandfather signed it off. Hall.

	M:	So your family’s been here for quite a while.



	RH:	Yes, yes. Yes. Yes. His grandfather was here, ooh! The Zettreilers bought him, and when they freed him—that’s right, they gave him forty acres of land, a horse, and a plow.

	NH:	A mule—



	RH:	And a wagon. A mule and a wagon. NH:	Mmhm.

	RH:	Okay.







M:

And what was the grandfather’s name again?

RH:

Albert Hall.

M:

Albert Hall.

RH:

Albert Hall.

M:

And Hannah was his wife?

NH:

Yeah.

RH:

Albert and Hannah, uh-huh.

M:

What were your parents’ names?

RH:

Edward and—

NH:

Hannah.

RH:

No, your momma.

NH:

Hannah Hall.

RH:

Your mother.

NH:

Oh, Ella.

RH:

Ella. And there they are, right there, with the long white dress on? Those are his



parents.

M:

Oh, wow. Wow. When was that picture taken?

RH:

That was taken in the early [19]60s or late [19]50s. Must’ve been late [19]50s.



That was their fiftieth wedding anniversary.

M:

Oh wow.

RH:

Mmhm.

NH:

And up to today, they want information, people from the courthouse, to get



answers from me.





	RH:	Oh yeah, a young lady came out from the university—it’s been a couple years, now—and talked with him. She recorded a lot of stuff. But at that time, his mind was pretty clear, and he could rattle off to her a lot of the things. You can see, I don’t know about the things way back here. I have to get it from him.

	M:	I understand. Was that also for the oral history program, or was that— RH:	The young lady who came?

	M:	Yeah.



	RH:	She said it—what did she say? She was, it was some programs, they had some tests or something. She said what it was when she came out. I think someone else had sent her to him because he’s the only one. There was a White lady here who knew a little, but she would always push him. She’d say, “Nathaniel know more than I do!” [Laughter] So, they were the only two. Mrs. Hogan. Uh-huh. But she passed away. A year or so ago?

	NH:	Mmhm.



	RH:	So, he was the only one. So, after him, it’s all gone. No one else here to know. M:	How did you learn so much about the history here? Did your family talk about it,

or just—?



	RH:	Yeah, he was born here. He was born about two, two and a half miles out in the woods out there, Nathaniel?

	NH:	Mmhm.



	RH:	They had a big farm out there. And he grew up so he was able to get everything. I think he often mentioned that oak tree right there. I think he said it was there as





long as he can remember. Some of the others might have been, but he said that one, he can remember—ever since he could remember, that oak tree.

	NH:	And that was where you picnicked. Once a year, we’d have a picnic out there. RH:	Oh, out there under that oak tree? Once a year, they’d have a picnic.

	NH:	We would put a train over the picnic, where they barbecue. Put a train over it,



wagon train, [inaudible 38:33].



	RH:	You know what? I remember, they used to take the springs out of a bed that—I can’t remember just what it was, but I know it was that bottom spring, and it had, it was flat. And they would put it over the barbecue pit and barbecue meat on it. I can’t remember just how it was, but I know that’s what it was.

	NH:	And we’d kill, I think, about two: a goat, a cow. A goat and a cow. RH:	Wouldn’t do a hog?

	NH:	No. Go down on Friday afternoon, we’d cook it all there.



	M:	How often did you eat meat back then? When you were farming, how often did you eat meat?

	RH:	Anytime we wanted to, because we always grew plenty of hogs, grew cows— killed them.

	NH:	Goat.



	RH:	Yeah, the goat. I didn’t ever— [Laughter] I didn’t never—he likes the goat. But the cows and hogs. They’d kill sometimes three, four, five hogs. In the wintertime—they’d only ever kill it in the winter. Cure it, put it in what we called a smokehouse. Build a fire in little pots and things, and smoke it. That would be the bits—and hang the hams, and the sides, and whatever. Shoulders. All around in





there. And it would smoke it, and that was the best-tasting meat you ever heard of in your life. It was better than what you get at the store.

NH: Before you get to the home— RH: You could smell it. [Laughter] NH:  You could.

RH:  Yeah.



	M:	How long did you have to smoke it for?



	RH:	Now that, I don’t know, because I was very young. But I know it had to be a good while.

	M:	Did people eat more goat back then? I guess it wasn’t popular with you. RH:	Goat?

M:   Yeah.



	RH:	Oh, yeah. Yes, people ate goat back then. Yeah. Everybody didn’t grow them, but they would have to buy them. Some of the Black people grew them, and some didn’t.

	M:	But the hogs and the cows, they were pretty standard.



	RH:	Oh, yes. That’s right, yes. Yeah, I remember my daddy used to put the cow in a barrel in salt. Was that what it was?

	NH:	Mmhm. Sugar.



	RH:	That was one of the processes of curing it. NH:	Put sugar in the [inaudible 41:42].

	RH:	No no no no. I’m talking about the meat. [Interruption for phone call]





	RH:	That’s my daughter-in-law in New York. [Laughter] Yeah, we had good eating back then. Yeah, we couldn’t do our flour, rice, sugar. But we did our meal, grits, lard—we called it.

	NH:	Syrup.



	RH:	Yeah, our own syrup. We just had a big eat, because—now see, back in those days, if we could get for dinner that night, if we could just get even cornbread— didn’t even have to do the biscuit—cornbread, syrup, and a piece of that meat, we thought we were eating big. Yeah. I mean—and all of us turned out to be real healthy; how about it? [Laughter] Yeah. We ate, we didn’t have a lot of different things as we have now. Of course, we’d have vegetables, plenty of vegetables, most any kind you would name. Because I can remember growing broccoli way back there, selling it to the stores, and I wouldn’t eat it for anything. Then, when I got where I had to buy, can’t get enough of it. [Laughter]

	NH:	We had a doctor. He would come down to the home.



	RH:	That’s Dr. Sharehouse from Campville. And it was so cute: Dr. Sharehouse would come and wait on you. He would stay all night if he needed to. And then, when you say, “Okay, doctor. What do I owe you?” “Can you take me up to Orange Heights?” [Laughter] It was a liquor store there. “Can you take me up to Orange Heights? And that’ll be the pay.” And then, we had a doctor in Hawthorne, Dr. Floway. Now, he was different. You paid him. But Dr. Zettreiller, he was very good, but it looked like he would give everybody the same medicine. But he did you good. At least, we thought he did. [Laughter] Yeah. Things was real good back then, with us—we thought.





	NH:	Yeah. Yeah.



	M:	How did you call the doctor? Did you—how did you get—



	RH:	No, you had to go there back then. And the midwife was his aunt. She delivered a lot of babies, White and Black, all through here. She was the only midwife.

	M:	What was her name? RH:	Helen Bradley.

	M:	Helen Bradley.



	RH:	Helen Bradley, mmhm. Just, his uncle’s wife. Yeah. M:	I see. Did she deliver him?

	RH:	Did Aunt Helen deliver you? NH:	I was delivered by my grandma.

	RH:	Your grandmother delivered you. Okay. M:	Was she also a midwife?

	RH:	Uh-huh. She was a midwife, too. NH:	Hannah Hall.

	RH:	Hannah Hall. Aunt Helen— NH:	Bradley.

	RH:	—in the younger, later days, she did most of the deliveries through here, White and Black. Yeah, so she had a lot of babies through here.

	NH:	She would stay all night, but only if it was necessary. They needed her to stay up a week, they’d set up she’d stay there.

	RH:	She was very good, but you had to go get them. Had no way of calling. I don’t know—were you all the first ones to get a telephone? Afro-American people.





	NH:	They gave it.



	RH:	Yeah, no, my ex-father-in-law, I know he was the first, up there. But I mean in Rochelle. You know who was the first one to get—?

	NH:	No, I don’t.



	RH:	In fact, my ex-father-in-law was the first one to get one—White or Black—in Grove Park. He ran a store. And he was the first to get a telephone there. One of these kind you had to crank up. [Laughter]

	M:	I see. Did people come to the store just to use the phone, or was that a— RH:	It was in his home.

	M:	Oh, was it?



	RH:	Uh-huh, phone was in his home. They would come there to use, yeah. But he didn’t have one in his store. Had one in his home.

	M:	I see. And around when was that?



	RH:	I came over in [19]38, and he had the phone then. So I don’t know how long before. Because, that probably—I don’t know—probably was the first telephone that I had seen. Probably. Unless Wood Sprink had one in Evanston, unless they had one there. I know that was the first one that I had seen, and it was one of the old crank-up kind, sitting on the wall. [Laughter]

	M:	Did people have radios around here back then?



	RH:	Not quite that far back, but—. Radios were very scarce. But it was only after [19]38, I think Mr. Louis—was that Louis’ store, in Hawthorne? And I told you, the night when—

	NH:	Them two old radios?





RH:  Mm-mm. No. Kind of at the end of the road, go by Shell, by Shell Elementary, and go up to 301? Not Merritt. But there was a Mr. Lewis. I think he’s the first one had a phone.

NH:  Yeah, he run a bank.



	RH:	That’s what it was, the Bank of Williston. That was the bank. Because the bank closed on everybody, and that money was gone. I remember that, when his bank closed. Yeah, Williston Bank, they said Mr. Louis had the bank. Was it J.D. Merritt? I don’t know what was Merritt’ name. Think it was J.D.

	NH:	Yeah, it was J.D.



	RH:	He’s the one that ran the store. But the, Mr. Merritt was the one that had the first radio that I knew about.

	NH:	When Joe Louis was fighting, he’d—



	RH:	Yeah, Joe Louis fought somebody, and anyway, Mr. Louis was for the person who lost. Joe Louis won. [Laughter]

	NH:	Mmhm.



	RH:	[Laughter] He done turn off the radio and tore it up! Yeah, I remember that just as good.

	M:	Well, what kinds of sports—I mean, did people follow the national teams back then? Did they have a baseball team around here or anything?

	RH:	They had baseball teams around here. M:	Okay.

	RH:	Where was your baseball team here, Nathaniel? NH:	The Puma Club.





	RH:	No, your baseball field.



	NH:	Right over there, it’s not there. RH:	Right down in there? Okay.

	NH:	It’s one of them.



	RH:	Oh. No, no. And this was a baseball team, and he telling you about baseball field. NH:	Yeah.

	M:	Did the team have a name?



	RH:	They were playing local people like Micanopy, and Hawthorne, you know. Just little places.

	NH:	Campfield.



	RH:	Campfield. Yeah.



	M:	About how often? Something like every weekend, or—? RH:	About how often did you play, Nathaniel?

	NH:	Mostly on Saturdays.



RH:  Mostly on Saturdays? Because everybody had to work. And that’s why they had to pick Saturdays for most of their events.

M:  I see. Well, did people come out and watch, or what was the— RH:  Oh, yeah. Oh, yes! Yes. Be a lot of people watching.

M:  So what was the game like? Did you have bleachers, or people just kind of sat on the sideline?

RH:  They had something for the people, some of the people to sit on. I don’t know if they brought chairs; I can’t remember. I know we used to go to Micanopy to see them. And I think we just stood around, didn’t we?





	NH:	Mmhm. That’s what I know. Where did I know?



	RH:	I can’t remember any bleachers or anything. Might have been some, but I can’t remember any. But they would have some real good games. Yeah. Yeah, they— I’m trying to think if any of the Micanopy people live right on down alley. I can’t remember. The Woodard boys are dead, all of them.

	NH:	Right.



	RH:	They were the main players in that— NH:	In every game.

	RH:	But Hawthorne, I didn’t know who played there.



	M:	And that was, what, they played in the [19]30s and the [19]40s? Around then?



	RH:	Oh, yeah. Had to be in the [19]30s and sometime before then, maybe. Late [19]20s, [19]30s. Yeah. Because, when I came over here in [19]38, they were going strong. Yeah. But then, it start going down. I remember Mr. Jenkins used to be—little policeman out there—he kept things straight. [Laughter] I don’t know if he had a gun; I know he had a badge. He might’ve had a gun. Yeah. I think the city gave him permission. Yeah. City of Hawthorne. But I remember him being the little policeman out. Because I don’t think they really had anybody here, over the, to see about either a policeman or anything, to here. Hawthorne, they did. I remember him.

	M:	I see. Was he a White man, or Black man, or? RH:	He was Black man. Black man.

	NH:	Yes.





	RH:	Black man, yes. They gave him that— [Laughter] I think they might’ve been afraid! So they give it to Mr. Jenkins. But he could keep ‘em straight. Yeah, he did. He was pretty good at keeping them straight. And they had basketball Alachua, and that came in around here. Yeah. The schools had basketball teams.

	M:	Ah, okay. So that was more of a student thing?



	RH:	Yes, yes. That was student thing, yeah. And they would go all around playing. Because I had one of these daddies that didn’t allow you to go too far out, so I wasn’t able to travel to see them. Yeah. I had to kind of stay around home. [Laughter]

	M:	I can imagine. And that’s football, too? Did anyone play football?



	RH:	No, no, I could go to the football, because football would be in the daytime. The basketball was mostly at night. So we couldn’t do too much traveling then. Yeah. He was one of those persons, hold them girls in place. [Laughter] But you know what? It seemed so hard back then, but you know, I appreciate it now. I do.

Because maybe I wouldn’t have turned out like I turned out, had he just let me go out there. But I can appreciate it now. And the whippings my mother gave me?

My daddy didn’t give me any, but my mother really worked on building. And I can appreciate it. Yeah, I appreciate it. I see.

	NH:	I’m just saying, I know about catching a whipping.



	RH:	[Laughter] And you know, she—they took the little paddling out of the schools and things, mostly. But to me, if you had had that little fear that you was going to get a whipping, you would do a little better. If I know I could call the man if you hit





me, then I got like [inaudible 56:17]. You put a little—we have a young man, he’s White. Married my son’s daughter, and sister-in-law. He’s principal at Newberry now. Can’t remember the boy’s name. But he was in Hawthorne, he came by and he say, “You know what? When it took the paddling out, they did something. I can remember how my daddy used to paddle me. And I knew to stay straight.

But now, these children will tell you in a minute, ‘You hit me, I’m calling the man.’” And when they call, when a child call, the law is coming. You can believe it or not; the law will be there. My little granddaughter called 911 on me. I went to get the mail, and she was here to this phone. That window was up. And I heard her talking. And I say, “Who is she talking to?” I came a little closer, and I hollered through the window, I said, “Jayden, who you talking to?” Now, she’s just seven. This is when she was five? Probably entering six. She just talk right on. So I came and opened the door, and I said, “Jayden, who are you talking to?” And that time, she said “Momma,” but she wasn’t talking to me. She was talking to the lady on the phone! [Laughter] And then she said, “Walnut.” I came and I got—I said, “Give me the phone, baby.” And I said, “Hello?” She said, “Ma’am, who are you?” I said, “I’m Rebecca Hall. I’m Jayden’s grandmother.” She say, “She said she was home alone and needed help.” I said, “Ma’am, her father just left. I’m her grandmother. I’ve been here all the time, and her grandfather is here. Even though he’s in a wheelchair, he’s here.” She said, “Ma’am, she said she was home alone, and she needed help.” I said, “All right.” So I knew what was going—I knew the law was coming. So I went back in and start washing dishes. I saw this car drive up. I came along and said, “Okay, Jayden. Here come the law.





He coming to take me to jail.” She grabbed me around my legs, she, “I don’t want my grandmother to go to jail!” I say, “But that’s what he’s coming for. He’s coming to take me to jail because you called him.” I don’t think—I don’t really think she knew what she was doing, in a way. And she did in a way, you know? It was just fun to her. So, when I opened the door, I said, “Yes, sir. You coming for that 911 call.” He say, “Yes, ma’am.” I say, “Here’s the child that called.” Then she start crying. He say, “You got pretty hair, you got a pretty little face. Don’t call the law anymore, here. Don’t call 911.” She said, “No, sir.” As soon as he closed his door, she say, “I’m calling them tomorrow.” [Laughter] I said, “If you do, you going to have a reason, because I will whip you!” [Laughter] But she didn’t call anymore. I think that was just fun for her. She knew about 911, and I’m out there. I said, “Why’s she calling 911 on me? I hadn’t done anything!” I said, “Next time, you going have a reason! I’m going to be ready to go to jail!” Oh, Lord. She hasn’t called them anymore. Yeah. But things are like that. They taking the paddling out, and the children know it. If they get a lick anyway, they can call.

	M:	So, what schools were around here back then—well, back in the past, where did kids go to school?

	RH:	Hawthorne and Gainesville. Now, way back, there was a school right up that road right there, about a mile?

	NH:	Uh-huh.



	RH:	Up that road, 2082.



	NH:	It was halfway back from the entry road to 2082.





	RH:	In fact, it’s the last house going up 2082 that you will see, before you get to— 225? No, that ain’t 225. We call it Cross Creek Road.

	NH:	Yeah.



	RH:	Mmhm. Turn off there; I can’t remember the number of that road. But anyway, it’s the last house. There’s one up that, right at that road. Cross Creek Road, we call it. But this would be the last one. And then there’s a long space in there. That was the schoolhouse. People are living in it. They’ve been living in it for a long, long while. But that was the school in Rochelle. They went to twelfth grade at one time?

	NH:	Mmhm.



	RH:	I know there was elementary, middle school. I think it went to high school at one time, that little school up there. And believe it or not, there were some very smart students came out of that school, little school up there.

	NH:	Yeah.



	RH:	Other than that, when it closed down, I was driving a school bus at that time. And I would have to cover—I was living in Grove Park—I would leave Grove Park, come here, come through here, pick up these children, go into Windsor, pick up those children, and then go into Hawthorne. Now, if a school bus driver was out that day, I might would have to turn and go to Cross Creek. Or, I might have to go to Orange Heights. Wherever a bus driver was out. I’d have to do that run after I’d done my run. I started off with a forty-eight-passenger, and I ended up with a seventy-two-passenger. And I wanted the, what is it, eighty-four, or ninety? There’s a ninety-some-passenger bus, I think. I know there’s a eighty-four. I





wanted the larger bus. The whole time that I drove—I drove twenty years—I was involved in one accident. I was coming from Hawthorne—had to be in the afternoon, because I was loaded—and I stopped to put a child out. And a man come running up to me on this side, saying, “Ma’am, pull aside and check your children!” And I’m going, “Sir, are you crazy?” [Laughter] He say, “Pull aside, and check your children.” And I’m still looking at him. He say, “Ma’am, I ran under the back of your bus.” I was so heavily loaded, I felt a little jar, but I thought it was the children jumping on there. And a station wagon from Ormond Beach had gone under, rested right on the windshield. It was one of those little—you know, used to be the buses that high. The back was real high? And that’s what happened.

Right at the windshield. He didn’t get hurt at all.



	M:	He’s lucky.



	RH:	Lucky he didn’t get hit. I had one hundred and six children on a seventy-two passenger bus. They were little children. And then, I got nervous to death. Oh, Lordy, I got nervous! So the superintendent—not the superintendent, the man over the school buses—came out, and he said, “Rebecca, why you being so nervous? You haven’t done anything.” I say, “I’m thinking about if the children had got hurt. That’s where I am. I’m at that ‘if’ stage.” And he say, “But you didn’t do anything.” I say, “It wouldn’t matter. I’m thinking about if the children had gotten hurt.” So he say, “Well, thank God they didn’t. Didn’t a child get hurt any way.” I think they was up there laughing about the man under the bus. [Laughter] One hundred and six children. And we had to write every name that was on that bus. Because see, the thing about—they couldn’t get me, because I had to write





every name and turn it in to the school bus thing up there. So, they had those names, and they knew that I rode that many children. So, they couldn’t get me. [Laughter] In the bus, three little children could sit on a seat, you know. Because they was very small children.

	M:	Yeah, I remember how that worked. But, so how did you get started driving buses?

	RH:	Okay. Through here, White bus was running. But there was no Black bus, Afro- American, whichever term you want to use, through here. My husband was principal right up here at this little school, and he said, “Those children have to catch a ride or walk just to get to school. Or the parent have to take them.” We had an old big panel-body truck.

	NH:	Mmhm.



	RH:	[Laughter] What you say the boys say? It was a hearse? NH:	Yeah.

	RH:	And he said, “You know what? I’m going to start carrying those children to school.” So, they had a Black supervisor at that time, and he talked with him about it. And he said, “Yes. I can get—I don’t know how much money, but I’ll be able to get a little money for you. They paid us seventy-five dollars a month, which was nothing, so to speak. He took that old panel-body truck, took the back doors out of it. Put two benches—church benches, the ones that go straight up? Both in. Put one on each side. And there was something in the middle—no, that was, that’s flat-bodied, flat-topped school buses had the thing in the middle.

They’d brace it on each side, and that’s the way I carried children into





Hawthorne. From here, into Hawthorne. High school children. The little children were still going up here. After that, we got one of those flat-top school buses. We still had the benches on each side, but they had a flat—there was no back to the center thing. But there was, you know, we could sit back to back on that center long thing on the bus. And I still drove that. And one day, one morning, the person who was driving—see, this was ours. The person who was driving the county’s bus had a fight with one of the board members. And he knew that was the end of his road. He just walked on and walked home. Give up bus driving.

Then they gave me the county’s bus. And that’s when I started driving the county’s bus. [Brief exchange at 1:10:27 as family member leaves the house] And I drove on for twenty years. And I worked in school food service and driving the bus at one time. But then I gave up school busing to work for school food service. So, I put in thirty-one and a half years for the county. And see, they don’t pay you for a portion of it, either. If I had driven on until, or cooked on until June—no, no, until December—I would have made out the year. But I gave it up in June. “No, that’s it.” When school closed, I gave up. Gave up everything. “Y’all can have that half-year.” [Laughter] Finished! Yeah.

	M:	So, when you took over the county bus, where were you driving that bus to? RH:	Same place.

	M:	Same place, okay.



	RH:	Uh-huh. Round here, and into Hawthorne. Sometime if a driver was out, I had to go to Orange Heights or Cross Creek. Wherever. And I would have to go sometimes to the county line down on—what is that? 20. On 20, down to the





Putnam County line. I’d have to go down there to pick up the Henderson children out there. Yeah. I’d have to go down there storive. Wherever a driver was out— or they would do the same thing with me, but I didn’t play staying off work. Yeah. But, if they were out, I had to make their—I don’t know why they couldn’t tell a one of the other drivers to make it, but I always wind up making their run. Yeah.

	M:	So, before integration, were you just bussing Black children, or—?



	RH:	That’s—I didn’t ever bus the White children. No, we didn’t—I didn’t—I didn’t get up to integration. I stopped before integration. Yeah. The only thing on the bus was Black children. I say, when I stopped driving, I think a couple years after then, they got on in pretty uniforms and everything. I said, “Oo-wee!” [Laughter] I didn’t get a chance to taste any of that grace! No, I didn’t get a chance to use the uniforms or anything. I stopped before then. Yeah, before—I can’t remember. Let me see, my son is forty-seven. I was pregnant with him, and I stopped before he was born. He’s forty-seven. Yeah. Stopped driving school bus, and then I was still working the lunchroom. You doing okay, baby?

	NH:	Mmhm.



	M:	Did you want to take a break for a minute?



	RH:	You see the—okay. Okay. [Laughter] Yeah, I was supposed to have gone with her.

	M:	Oh, I see.



	RH:	Yeah, but she’ll come back here. And then probably we’ll [inaudible] go.



	M:	Okay. Yeah, I mean, just let me know if you have—I can always come back if you have more to say.





	RH:	‘Bout said all I knew to say! [Laughter] You know, maybe if I was asked questions about different things, I could answer that, you know. A nottarule. [Laughter] Now, he can do it. He—you know, when he was all well and a little younger, now he could carry you way back. Yeah.

	M:	I can tell.



	RH:	At ninety years old, I say we got to be thankful with whatever he gets now. Yeah. M:	Well, so where were you doing the food service, what school was that?

	RH:	Hawthorne. I started off at Shell, at Hawthorne. And then went from Shell—it was Shell Elementary, Shell was first, but I went down there, I went to school there awhile. It was Shell High School. Then they dropped to Shell Elementary. No— Shell Junior, elementary—middle school. Then they dropped to elementary, Shell did. And I went from there over to Hawthorne High. That’s where I retired from, Hawthorne High. Yeah. I think I went to—before they build a new building— Hawthorne High. I went into the old building for just a short while. And then they build a new building, and I worked there until I retired. I had my ups and downs and rounds and rounds, but I made it. [Laughter]

	M:	So what was it like being the bus driver around here? Did you get to know all the kids in the area?

	RH:	Oh yes, and the thing about it, I knew the parents. And I didn’t have to paddle. I kept my paddle there, but I didn’t have to paddle. All I had to say, “I’ll tell your mother.” “I’ll tell your father.” That’s all I had to say. I had some good children! I didn’t have any of these—I wouldn’t drive now for, couldn’t pay me to drive now,





even if I was young enough to be driving! Mm-mm! No, some rough ones on there now. They’ll get the bus driver! [Laughter] No, I didn’t run into any of that.

	M:	So, what was the—what kinds of churches were out here, back—



	RH:	Before I came here in [19]38, I think the White church was up here, but they had closed. They had stopped having service. And I think they were going to— anywhere, somewhere on, was it on the Hawthorne Road? No. Someone was going on, on 441. It’s a little—can’t remember now just where it is. But it’s just north of Micanopy, on the right. Since I don’t travel that road much I can’t remember just where it is. But I know when I see it. Some of them went there, and some went to Gainesville, to—I can’t remember where the church is they went to! Nathaniel. Where did Ms. Minnie Lou Tillman and them go to church? You remember?

	NH:	Mm-mm.



	RH:	It was Gainesville. And I know where, but right now I’m not thinking. But this church closed out, the White church closed out. And we been going up, they say we were going to have it all redone over. Nice building. The pews still in there, the pulpit, things still in there. A few of the windows, I think, are broken. Doors are still good, I think. We had several meetings out there, we going to have it done over, but I think that ran—and how that came about: there was a lady riding the bike path, and she say for some cause, she don’t know why, she just stopped in this little place and start walking around. And she saw that building. And she called a meeting, the lady just riding through, calling and asking if they’d meet with her. And we met up there, we started meeting. But we didn’t do anything. I





think it was too much work. [Laughter] And nobody willing to spend anything, I think that was it. But the Black church is the one here that’s Methodist, United Methodist, right here. And up 2082 about, it’s not a mile, it’s the Baptist church. This here, both them city-run. With second and fourth is our church, and first and third over to the Baptist church. So we just—it’s a few of us here. The Baptists come here, and the Methodists go there. You know, with that.

	M:	And those churches have been here for a while?



	RH:	Both of these churches have been here for a long while, mmhm. Yeah. I don’t— has the Baptist church been here as long as the Methodist church, Nathan?

	NH:	Methodist church. RH:	Was the first.

	NH:	Mmhm.



	RH:	Okay.



	NH:	Of any Christian, that’s where we used to go to Sunday school.



	RH:	Ah, okay. Okay. So the Methodist church was the first church. Okay.



	M:	So—I mean, I can keep coming up with questions, I don’t want to hold you up if you have to go somewhere. But Micanopy, we didn’t really talk about where you grew up.

	RH:	I grew up about five miles south—okay, I grew up in that area where the Alachua/Marion County line is. Down there, kind of like about maybe, we’ll say a mile. Maybe a little farther, is where I really grew up as a child. And I walked from there to Micanopy school at six years old. And we had to be at school on time.

You didn’t play, because the principal was standing at the door. With a switch.





[Laughter] So, you had to be on time. But, the boys got smart. They carried him home with them one day, and he had to walk those miles. And the next morning, walk back. So he told them, “You won’t get any more whippings. I didn’t realize where you had to walk from.” So, it’s good sometimes for you to find out before you start whipping! [Laughter] Yeah. But that was—a portion of that little school might be there, or they might have torn it down and build a new school. But that one down there was the same—it was a, what kind of school is this up here, Nathaniel?

NH: Rosenwald. RH: Rosenwald? NH:  Rosenwald.

RH:  That one down there was made just like this one up here. M:  Okay, they’re Rosenwald schools.

RH:  There are two big rooms, and then this little room sitting out there in front. Made just like that. The Rosenwald school. I don’t know if there was a Mrs. Rosenwald or Mr. Rosenwald.

NH:  Mmhm.



	RH:	I don’t know. All I knew was “Rosenwald.” NH:	Except for here.

	M:	So where did you get the materials and things for the schools?



	RH:	Okay, the materials that we got was when the White schools closed, and if there was any discarded material, it came to the Black school. You know, that’s where—he often make his fame old ragged books? [Laughter]





	NH:	Mmhm.



	RH:	But it was enough in the book to learn, if you wanted to learn. It was enough in the book. But they didn’t like it because it was ragged; it wasn’t new books. We didn’t get any new books back then. But all later on in the years, you know, was able to get new books. But not back then. You got whatever. Whatever was left over, or whatever, you know, was discarded, is the books that we got back then. We made it. Yeah, we made it. I think sometime if you will stop and appreciate whatever you get, it’s better than nothing. And that’s what we don’t seem to understand. If you don’t have anything, that’s bad. But if you can just get a little, build on what you get. And that—to me, that makes sense. Yeah. And you can keep building and keep building on the little. So, we got those ragged books, and we got another set of ragged books, but there was something good in all of the books. [Thunder in background] Whew!

	M:	Thunder!



	RH:	I don’t know if I’m going to [inaudible] or not! [Laughter] M:	Do you remember any of your teachers from that school?

	RH:	My first grade teacher—they didn’t have this little, what’s this thing they have now, ahead of the first grade? They didn’t have that. You started off in first grade back then.

	M:	Oh, kindergarten.



	RH:	Kindergarten. We didn’t have that back then. Was Mrs. Nancy Prishay. That was my first grade teacher. And she taught more than one grade. But I think we had, at that time, about—I’m trying to—one teacher in each of those big rooms, and





the principal in that little room. So we had three teachers. And you stayed in this room so many years with that teacher with the grades. As you moved up, you went over there. And then, the high school, you was in there with the principal. Yeah. It was a—I don’t know, and there was some children that I knew—that I know; now, well, and most of them was I knew, because they gone on—came up and did extremely good. Now, my daddy was a farmer. And you get up in the morning, and you might have to go to farm in the field and do a little something, then go back and I say it “run by the water.” [Laughter] Because you didn’t have time to take a bath! Run by the water, go to that schoolhouse. So, I was only able to make the eighth grade. But after I was working in school food service, we had to go back to school. I went to GHS. That was after my children came along. I went to GHS and took some subjects. And I can’t remember what my teacher was there, but he taught business. One of them, I can’t remember just what went on there. As I grow older, it disappears. But I can appreciate the business course, because I learned so much that I didn’t know about business. You know, he gave us the book. We went by the book. And he was very nice—in my sight. I thought he had a lot of patience. Then, I went to night school, down to Grove Park. I was about to say this church; now, Grove Park, to that church. And Mrs.

Wright—Dr. Wright, who was principal of Shell for a long time; she retired now— taught down there, in this night school. And she had the patience of Job. She said, “If you want to stay here until twelve o’clock, I’ll be right here.”

	NH:	Mmhm. That’s right.





	RH:	And she took time, and explained things. I mean, sometimes you read things, but you don’t understand it. Don’t understand what you’re reading. But she would have such patience in explaining what we read, or what she read to us, until it really—I’m thinking under her, and under this teacher who taught business—I learned more than I did through first grade through the eighth grade. I think what happened: I was more interested. And I was seeing the need moreso than I did when I was in school. I think that was the main one. I saw the need. I had two children. They asked a question in class one day: “What are you going to school for?” And a lot of them said they were going to finish high school, they was going to this, and that was their reason. So when it got to me, and she said, “Ms. Hall, what are you going to school for?” I say, “I have two little children. I’m going to school so I will be able to teach them. I’ll know when they’re right, and when they are wrong. That’s why I’m going to school.” And that was it! Because the children coming up, not knowing and if I couldn’t help them, what good was I to them in their education? So I said, “That’s why I’m going. I have two little children I have to help.” And my daughter that just run out the door. Called me the other day, now. She finished high school, and I think two years of college. And she said, “Momma, come in here, I need your help.” I said—this is an eighth-grader— “What you need my help for?” [Laughter] But the little children now, that little seven year-old-daughter of hers, is having the things that we had in seventh, eighth, and ninth grade! Right now! I said, “This can’t be this child’s lesson! I know!” But I solved the problem that they weren’t able to solve! [Laughter] That, it just tickled me. I say, back to school, the main teacher business, Dr. Wright, it





helped me out. Yeah. I listened right then. I didn’t listen when I was in school, up to eighth grade. But I listened when they talked. And I learned.

	M:	Sounds that way. Must’ve been hard when you were young. I mean, you had to do the farm chores, go home and probably had more chores.

	RH:	I wasn’t interested in that school, any more than I’m interested in jumping up to the moon. Wasn’t even interested. But after I had those little children, I said, “Now, if I don’t know anything, what can I teach them?” So, that’s why I was interested in going back to school. They gave us a high school diploma, but we knew that wouldn’t take us to college. We knew that. This was just a little temporary something to make you feel good! [Laughter] I knew better; I wouldn’t’ve tried to enter college on that. Because there was a lot more to learn.

	M:	Did the kids around here—or in Micanopy—if they were doing well in school, did they go to Lincoln?

	RH:	The children from here, some of them went to Hawthorne, my daughter just went and finished in Hawthorne, Hawthorne High. My son finished at Eastside. He chose to go there, so they had to do their own transportation. Because they were zoned at that time, the Hawthorne.

	M:	What about before then, when Lincoln High was in Gainesville and that kind of thing?

	RH:	You know what? I was working on this end all the time, so I don’t really—I don’t really know too much about the buses that went there.

[Exchange as someone enters the porch]





He got us telling about what we know about this place. This place here, and around it.

	U1:	Rochelle?



	M:	Oral history.



	U1:	Oh yeah?



	RH:	Leon sent him. Leon Hicks.



	U1:	Oh yeah? Yeah, okay, yeah. Okay.



	RH:	Yeah, Leon called him when he was here. Yeah. [Further exchange about doctors’ appointments, etc.]

	M:	Well, as I said, I could easily keep coming up with questions, but I don’t want to take up your whole afternoon. I guess there’s one more part of the story I’d like to hear about.

	RH:	Okay.



	M:	Oh wow. Just in time for the rain! [Laughter] RH:	Oh, dear!

	M:	It is coming down.



	RH:	Mmhm! Fog your glasses up, I know!



	M:	Yeah, and it’ll just wash the car off, I guess, but—how did the two of you meet?



You’re going on fifty years now—or, you’re past fifty years.



	RH:	[Laughter] I came to Grove Park—not here—to Grove Park, in [19]38. He was courting out there two or three girls, down to Grove Park [Laughter]. He and my first husband were very good friends. And I remember my husband was doing them [inaudible 1:37:32] too, but anyway! [Laughter] I met my first husband in





[19]38, I married him in [19]39. He lived until [19]59, he passed away. He was principal of this little school up here, and then he went to Waldo. He was there, principal in Waldo when he passed away. Then, I think this one probably had his eyes on me all the time. He say it, but I didn’t think so, for the simple reason he and I were kind of running mates, you know? He had his friend, and I had my friend. But I think them eyes was kind of over this way. [Laughter] We married— my first husband died in [19]59, June 22nd—June 22nd, [19]61, he and I got married. We courted, we got married, June 22nd, [19]61. The same date that my husband was buried. June 22nd, [19]59. He died on the 16th, was buried on the 22nd. And I married him June 22nd, [19]61. Same date.

	M:	Was that intentional? The date?



	RH:	No, my niece was getting married the 23rd, which was on a Sunday. His niece, Leon’s sister. Leon’s sister was getting married the 23rd, which was on a Sunday. She was having a wedding. He and I gonna outsmart her, going get married before she— [Laughter] So we went to the pastor’s house in Gainesville. Then he think about we had to have a witness. So, we hurried over there, and the pastor called the people next door to witness the marriage. So when she came out for her wedding, suddenly, we said, “We already married.” [Laughter] No, this wasn’t intentional. We hadn’t even thought about it until she planned her wedding. Then we just decided to go get married—wasn’t thinking about a date. We was going to get married before her! They gave us a little repast a couple Saturdays ago.

And the people turned out, oh my Lord, I mean, the yard was full! Whoo! They had a big tent right there. Yard was full of people. You know, it’s raining now.





	M:	It sure is raining now.



	RH:	Mm-hm-mm. But he asked me the question about two weeks ago, I believe it was. Maybe three. He calls me Momma. He said, “Momma, have I been a good husband?” And I said, “You know what, Nathaniel? I want you and everybody else to know, you have been a very good husband to me. But,” I say, “I have one little thing in there.” He said, “What was that, Momma?” I said, “When I won a argument, you’d walk out and go down across the field, and go out there in the flowerbeds, and you would stay there until all the weeping. And then I’d get mad!” [Laughter] I said, “That’s the only thing I have against—” He told me just after he married, he said, “You know, Momma told me, don’t ever hit my wife.” And I said, “Well, you kept that promise. Nathaniel, I’d get so mad with you— [Laughter] when you’d walk out and quit arguing right here.” We just had to mindful for that. I’d start running around my house, he’d always head somewhere in his flower bed. He’d go to mowing, pulling grass, anything except arguing.

Mmm! Yeah. We’ve had a nice fifty years of marriage. And a good ones.



	M:	And a great house. This house, too.



	RH:	Uh-huh. We were married when we was down in Grove Park. And then we moved over here. Then the children, I think Stanley say he was five years old when we came here.

	M:	Where did you live in Grove Park when you lived there?



RH:  We lived—now, don’t ask me none of that—is it two? Fifty-two? Anyway, right as you get to Grove Park, make a right turn into that, and before you cross the bike path, turn right at the bike path, and go down about a city block. Right in that





house right there. Keep it easy to find. [Laughter] I always tease him, I say, “Boy, you had some good-looking girlfriends! Why did you marry poor ugly me?” He say he knew what he was doing. I say “Well, I reckon so. Been together fifty years.” Yeah. Made it this far. I told him, “You made ninety, you got to make a hundred now.” He’ll be ninety-nine November 3rd. Ninety-nine. I told him, “You got to make a hundred.” And the doctor say he’s in very good health.

	M:	That’s excellent.



	RH:	He can eat anything, any time of day or any time of night. And you know what he does? He keeps a box of baking soda in there. I always see him with it in there, and he put a little dab on the back of his hand and lick it after he eats. The doctor told him in [19]76, he was in the hospital, “Don’t ever take baking soda.” He’s been taking it ever since I’ve known him. And he seem to get along better than the doctor! [Laughter] Yeah, one doctor told me he wished his health was half as good as his. Nathaniel been right by his side when he came along. But he can roll all out there, he can roll all out to the road by himself.

	M:	How big is the family these days? You’ve got how many sons and daughters?



	RH:	One son, one daughter. And I have an adopted son by the other marriage. I have an adopted son. And he and I have a son and daughter together. And everybody know, and I’m surprised you don’t know, Stanley Hall. Everybody knows Stanley Hall. And I was referred to as Stanley Hall’s momma, and my daughter is Stanley Hall’s sister. But Stanley Hall. [Laughter] He, Stanley does sidewalks in Gainesville. He’s on work crew, does sidewalks. Been trying to get him in the office, but he’s not an inside person, just like his daddy. He likes it outside.





	M:	There’s a lot to be said for that.



	RH:	Yeah. He’s been training the, some of the workers. And then they get the position. One of the workers is in the office now, Mr.—what Stanley’s friend’ name? The man who comes out here to work with Stanley. Mr. Harell. I don’t know Harrell’ first name. But he was training under Stanley, and he’s in the office now. He’s been teaching a class but he don’t want to be inside. He just stay there long enough to say what he got to say, and gone! [Laughter] My, my.

	M:	It’s coming down now. RH:	Yes!

	M:	Well, I mean, I guess this is a good place to stop, unless you have any other things to say now.

	RH:	It was eleven of them in the family. His mother had eleven children. It’s two of them left. He, the youngest son, and his sister, who’s the youngest daughter, who married my brother. I’m the youngest girl in my family, and my brother is the youngest boy in our family. There’s just the two of us left, the two of them left. [Laughter] Yeah, big families, whittled right on down.

	M:	Yeah. That’s impressive, though. Well, do you have anything left to add, or—? RH:	I don’t think so.

	M:	All right, well, thank you very much.



	RH:	You are so welcome, you are so welcome. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Ryan Morini, December 28, 2015





	Audit-edited by:	Juanita Duque, December 18, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 20, 2019