AAHP 087; Nelson; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 087 Helen Spells Nelson African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on June 12, 2010 10 minutes | 6 pages



Abstract: At her forty-sixth high school reunion, Helen Spells Nelson is interviewed about her experience attending the Black-only Armstrong High School. Ms. Nelson attended this high school at the start of the Civil Rights Movement, during a time when integrating schools was heavily discussed. Ms. Nelson explains her excitement for the event and claims attending her Black-only school was a “blessing” that helped her better understand her background. She connects this sense of understanding with the growth of leadership skills. At the end of the interview, she contributes success to her trust in God.



[Keywords: African American History, Education, Segregation, Cumberland County]



Standards:

	SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.

	SS.912.A.2.5 Jim Crow laws









































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 087

Interviewee: Helen Spells Nelson Interviewer: Marna Weston

Date of Interview: June 12, 2010



	W:	Okay. Marna Weston of the oral history program at the University of Florida, speaking with Helen Spells Nelson at the Armstrong High School Class of [19]64 reunion. Thank you for speaking with me today.

	N:	You’re welcome.



	W:	Would you please tell me your place and date of birth?



	N:	My place of birth was Steadman, North Carolina. Date of Birth six, one, 1945. W:	And who are your mother and father?

	N:	My mother’s name is Beverly Spells. My father is Mr. Johnny D. Spells. Both deceased.

	W:	I’m very sorry. And on your mother’s side, who were her mother and father? N:	Her mother was Minnie Kirk, and her husband was Johnny Kirk.

	W:	And on your dad’s side? Who was his mother and father?



	N:	I can’t call that right now, because I never did know their mother too much. W:	Well, back to your mother’s side, do you know anything about her parents’

parents?



	N:	No. Because I was small when they passed. And my mother’s parents passed when I was small. So I don’t know too much about them.

	W:	Do you have any brothers and sisters?



	N:	I have—I had seven brothers and five sisters. W:	And what are their names?





	N:	My brothers are Tyrone, John, Stanley, Thomas, Clarence, Milton, and Otis. My sisters: Lois, Magaline, [inaudible 1:38]. And I had a sister to be— she’s been dead now for a number of years. Her name was Christine.

	W:	And do you have any children?



	N:	I have three children: one son, and two daughters. W:	And what are their names?

	N:	Michael, Peaches—well, Helen, but we call her Peaches—Christine. That’s my three children.

	W:	And are you married?



	N:	Was. My husband deceased, and before that we had gotten a divorce a couple years since then.

	W:	Okay, what was his name? N:	Laverne Nelson

	W:	What is your earliest memory of education?



N:  Oh, well. My earliest memory was Seabrook school. Going to Seabrook. W:  J.W. Seabrook?

N:  J.W. Seabrook was [inaudible 7:15]. It was a really good experience. And I went there for several years, and then we went to Armstrong school. And that’s where I graduated, from Armstrong High.

W:  Who was your favorite teacher when you went to Armstrong? N:  Mr. Enny.

W:   Okay, and what did he teach?





	N:	He taught Algebra. He taught Algebra. He was a good teacher. He knew his stuff.



He was very good. So, he was one of my favorite teachers.



	W:	So why are you here at your forty-sixth class reunion?



	N:	I am here because I enjoy people, and I enjoy seeing my old friends and classmates. And you know, just want a fellowship with them, to reminisce about old times, and how—we were good friends, and we should always remember to assemble ourselves together to keep our friendship going. So that’s the main reason I’m here, because I love people. And I love my friends. All of us was friends in high school. Just enjoy people.

	W:	Did you surprise yourself by being here today, or were there any surprises for you?

	N:	Well, the surprises was seeing some of the people that I haven’t seen for a long time. You know, we’ve had reunions a couple other times; some of the people that’s here today, they weren’t here the other times. So it’s just a joy and a pleasure to see—and experience how we’ve all grown, and how we’ve all changed, and all the things that we’ve been through. And even through sickness and almost death we are still here by the grace of God. And I just thank God for Him allowing us, because some of our classmates have gone on. And I just enjoy seeing the ones that are here, you know? And then, too, to remember the ones that’s gone on.

	W:	You graduated from high school in the middle of the beginning of the Movement, when people were really talking about integration, and the sit-ins that happened.





There’d been the Freedom Riders. Was there something unique about going to a Black-only school?

	N:	Well, yes there was, too. Because, you know, we didn’t have to worry about who would the better person, the better people. We was just like family. But too, it didn’t bother me to be integrated or anything. But it was just unique that we had the opportunity to come up in a Black school. And to be able to reminisce how we came up in a Black school, all-Black school. So, that was a blessing right there.

	W:	Do you think it was a difference in the experience that you had as a student, and what kids today have in schools? And if so, what is that difference?

	N:	Well there’s a difference, because kids today, they’re going through—the White peers, they seem like they might have more [inaudible 5:47] the Blacks over there. Or that they are more favorable than the Black will. So, we have to look at it from other standpoints. Just like it was back in the day when we was coming up, in stores in things, you had to go to the back to maybe get your food or whatever. And the White people had their special fountains. So [inaudible 3:23]. But anyway, so they have a, you might say inferiority complex or whatever. They feel like they have more of advantage on us. And some Black kids, they feel like they not good enough, you know, mixed with everybody. They not good enough; they still in slavery, but we are not in slavery. And we don’t realize, too, that people was in slavery times, that they had to go through things. But we don’t have to stay in the state that our fathers and our forefathers came out. We can better ourselves, we can move on up, because no matter who they are. I say, long as they put God first, and let Him rule the [inaudible 7:15] in their lives. It





matters not about the color, because God gave them that color. You look at the heart. You look in the heart.

W:  Do you think that the way that you went to school prepared you better for leadership and being a leader in life than what students go through today?

N:  Well, in some instances, some points in time, it does. Because you should know where you came from. You won’t have that power struggle. If you are struggling to get to someplace, you feel that somebody’s holding you down, but it’s nobody but you that’s holding you down. Ain’t nobody hold you down.

	W:	I’ve got to give this to my momma. N:	Okay.

	W:	Sorry about that. So, what is your definition of leadership?



	N:	Being able to follow. In order to be a good leader, you got to be a good follower.



You’ve got to follow first. And then when you follow after somebody else, then you can count on yourself, if they going the right way. If they leading you the right way, you count on yourself then. And then you can come up where you need to be, good leadership.

	W:	Well, I appreciate you taking the time to speak to me. And on behalf of the Oral History program at the University of Florida, we thank you for your interview. I’d like to close the interview by giving you the opportunity to offer any reflection that you would care to, either on today or on something else, or on the nature of the interview. And when you conclude your comments, that will conclude the interview.





	N:	Well I’d just like to say that when we put God first in everything, in everything that we do and in everything that we say, He will make a way for us, and He will cause us to go to the places where He want us to go. Lot of time we want to go to places without God, but He said it’s impossible to please Him if we don’t have the faith. And like he said earlier, if we don’t have faith. We walk by faith, and not by sight. So that’s my conclusion for the day. To God be the glory, through all the things that He has done. Amen.





	Transcribed by:	Anisha Dutt



	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, August 10, 2017 Final edit by:	Sandra Romero, June 22, 2021