AAHP 278; Hickmon; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 278 Freddie Hickman African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Marna Weston on August 9, 2012 52 minutes | 25 pages

















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 278

Interviewee: Freddie Hickmon Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: August 9, 2012



	W:	This is Marna Weston for the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program from Pugh Hall, on August 9th, 2012, and I’m speaking today with Reverend Dr. Fred Hickmon.

	H:	Freddie.



	W:	Freddie Hickmon. Thank you, Reverend Hickmon, for being here today. Could you please state and spell your complete name from birth?

	H:	My complete name is Freddie, F-R-E-D-D-I-E; middle initial L as in “Lee”; Hickmon, H-I-C-K-M-O-N.

	W:	Thank you. And does the middle initial L actually stand for Lee? H:	Yes, it does.

	W:	L-E-E?



	H:	Yes, sir.



	W:	Thank you. What is the day and date of your birth, please, sir? H:	October the 28th, 1942.

	W:	And where were you born? H:	O’Brien, FL.

	W:	Were you born at home or a hospital? H:	I do not know that.

	W:	Do you know the circumstances, if a doctor or midwife was present when you were born?

	H:	I do not know.



	W:	Okay. Who are your mother and father?





	H:	My father was John Henry Hickmon. My mother was Elizabeth Allen Hickmon. W:	And do you recall their dates of birth?

	H:	No, I do not.



	W:	What knowledge do you have of your grandparents on your mother’s side? What were their names?

	H:	My grandfather on my mother’s side was named Edward Allen. My grandmother was named Carrie Allen.

	W:	And on your father’s side? Who were his parents?



	H:	It was Charlie Hickmon, and I don’t remember my grandmother’s name. W:	Do you have any knowledge of any older ancestors?

	H:	Let me back up a moment: Carrie Allen. Carrie Hickmon was my grandmother’s, on my father’s side.

	W:	Okay and are there other ancestors? Members of your family further back than that who you know of?

	H:	No, sir.



	W:	How did your family originally come to the O’Brien area where you were born?



	H:	Well, I was a small child at that time. And so, we was following wherever our father and mother took us. My father was a sharecropper, so we ended up there on a farm, sharecropping.

	W:	Do you happen to know the name of the farm? Or the people your dad was working for?

	H:	Not at that particular time, but when we relocated to Alachua County, I’m very familiar with the name of the person who owned the farm.





	W:	And who were those people? H:	Claude Blandown.

	W:	Could you spell that last name? H:	B-L-A-N-D-O-W-N.

	W:	What was Mr. Blandown like? Do you have any memories of him?



	H:	He just was a White owner of the farm, and provided a residence for my family to live in. And we did the farming.

	W:	Where was that residence located? H:	Just sort of southwest of Alachua.

	W:	How close to Alachua proper would that have been?



	H:	I guess about four miles. It’s the same property that Dollar General owns and operate now in Alachua.

	W:	Okay, out on County Road 235A? H:	Yes.

	W:	Okay, I’m very familiar with that area. What were the duties of your dad as a sharecropper—and your family? I guess everybody sort of helped out. Could you describe that sharecropping process for someone who might be listening to this later on and not know what sharecropping is?

	H:	Sharecropping is—to mean that the family was charged with the responsibility of running the farm, operating the farm, planting the crop. The owner, the White owner, provided the land, the equipment to farm, and provided a place for a family to live. We did all the work, and were not paid.





	W:	So, I exchange for that, what was the business arrangement? You got a place to stay? You weren’t paid, but did your family keep part of the proceeds from the crops or anything like that? Or how did that work?

	H:	At the end of the selling of the tobacco or harvesting of the cotton, the White owner would come to my father and give my father a small token. Finance.

	W:	What types of crops were raised? Or you and your family work with in sharecropping? You did mention tobacco, but were there others?

	H:	Tobacco, peanuts, cotton, watermelon, cantaloupes, string beans, cucumbers, eggplants, bell pepper, and the list goes on. We was very instrumental in growing all of those crops and harvesting them.

	W:	Did you have brothers and sisters? H:	Yes, I had five brothers.

	W:	Perfect. Could you please list your brothers from oldest to youngest?



	H:	The oldest one was Nathaniel Hickmon; the second oldest was Izell Hickmon; the third was Wesley Hickmon; the fourth was Allen Hickmon; and the fifth was Freddie L. Hickmon; and the youngest was Charles Hickmon.

	W:	So, you were the knee baby? H:	Yes.

	W:	How long did your family stay in sharecropping?



	H:	We sharecrop until, I would say about 19—we left the farm when I was in the seventh grade. And I would say that would have been 1961, thereabout.

	W:	Besides the responsibilities of sharecropping, if you could for a minute just elaborate on what some of your chores were growing up. What were your





responsibilities, you and your brothers, as far as helping your family manage the homestead and the sharecropping?

	H:	Well, we did all of the work in terms of harvesting the crop. We was accountable for feeding the livestocks—cows, hogs; mending fences; mowing the grass, pulling weeds; those were our basic responsibilities.

	W:	Did you have mules or horses?



	H:	Yes, they had mules. I did not ply in it, but some of my older sibling did.



	W:	What are your memories of working with and around mules? What was their disposition? Was there anything special about working with mules that you have to be more cautious or more aware in any way?

	H:	Well, one of the thing that was always stressed to us: if all possible, stay from behind the animal, because it could easily kick you.

	W:	So, that was something that you were aware of? H:	Yes.

	W:	Did you milk cows as well?



H:  I didn’t, but some of my older sibling did. W:  Harvest eggs?

H:  Yes. Picked up egg, yes. W: And as far as the eggs— [Cell phone rings]

H:   Can we pause?



	W:	Yeah, we can pause. [Break in recording]





	H:	See that’s why I don’t bring this thing with me. That’s exactly the reason.



	W:	[Laughter] So, we were talking about eggs. Let me see, how can I wrap that up as far as eggs. Did you get that part about the eggs, by the way? Were we running then?

	DH:	Yeah.



W:  Returning to the interview, we were talking about chickens. Besides the chickens, were there any special responsibilities, you know, making sure foxes didn’t get in with them, or the dogs, or anything like that?

H:   No, we normally kept the chickens in a chicken pen. And kept the gate locked— or closed, rather—to try to help protect the chickens.

W:  Did you have any responsibilities as far as cooking or cleaning in the home? H:  No.

	W:	That was all stuff your mom did? H:	Yes.

W:  Moving from your life with your family growing up, to your life as a husband and father, could you describe that? Are you currently married?

	H:	Yes, I am.



	W:	What is your wife’s name and how did you meet?



	H:	My wife’ name Blondie Marie Price, was her maiden name. It’s Blondie Marie Hickmon now. She’s my high school sweetheart. We met at A.L. Mebane High School. We played basketball together; she played with the girls team, I played with the boys team. We been married going on fifty-one years. We have two sons and a daughter. Three kids.





	W:	Could you list them from oldest to youngest, please?



H:  The oldest son is Lt. Commander Byron Hickmon. He’s a retired Lt. Commander out the Navy. The second son is William Detroit Hickmon, he work for the corner drug store. And our youngest one is Joycette Elizabeth Parker. She is deceased, but she was an educator, had her own education consulting business.

W:  You mentioned the corner drug store; for people that don’t know Alachua County, they might not know what that is. Could you describe the corner drug store?

	H:	I think the corner drug store deal with trying to help rehabilitate young individuals who had become involved in substance abuse, and have received some erroneous information in trying to help grow and develop their lives. And I think the corner drug store try to help put them back on the proper path.

	W:	Do you have any grandchildren? H:	I have ten.

	W:	Okay, I won’t ask you to mention them all! But what’s the best thing about being a grandfather?

	H:	Grandfather that you could provide guidance and direction to help the parent in instruction and rearing their children. Today, young parents are missing many of the very vital aspect of rearing children, because of their inexperience. Rearing children is a strategic occupation. Somebody needs to always be in charge of rearing children. And I won’t feel that with my training and my experience, it put me in a highlighted position in rearing children, after having reared three: two sons and a daughter. And out of the three of them, they’ve achieved five degrees.





	W:	Outstanding. Could you talk about your early education, sir? What is your first memory of formal education?

	H:	Well, my first memory of formal education was in 1949. I was in first grade at Douglass Elementary School in High Springs. I went to school there, and then the school was transferred to Alachua; I went to Alachua County Training School. Then the school there was closed when A.L. Mebane was constructed. Then, I finished high school at A. L. Mebane High School, then I matriculated to Santa Fe Community College, Edward Waters College in Jacksonville, and presently I was honored and awarded an honorary doctor degree of Sacred Letters from Jacksonville Theological Seminary in Jacksonville, FL.

	W:	Who was the principal of Douglass School while you were there? H:	Mr. Green.

	W:	Mr. Green. What are your memories of Mr. Green?



	H:	The only thing that I remember about Mr. Green is that he sit in the head office, and all of the teachers have to respond to him. I dealt directly with my teacher.

	W:	And who were some of the teachers that you remember today from Douglass High School?

	H:	From Douglass High School? Miss Coleman, Miss Mills, Miss Miller, Miss Taylor, Mr. Orel Maxey.

	W:	And how is it that you can recall all those teachers just off the bat like that after so much time? What was it that was special about them that’s left them lasting in your memory over these years?





	H:	Well, unlike today, when students went to school during my era, they idolized or held in high esteem their teachers. Many of the accepted practice that peoples in education practice now was not accepted then. If a teacher was teaching us and she became pregnant, female, they had to excommunicate her out of the school. That’s not the case now. And those are the kind of principles that I hold dear as a student.

	W:	What about your memories of Mebane? Who was the principal when you first went to Mebane School in Alachua?

	H:	Mr. C. O. Whitfield, Clayton Otis Whitfield.



	W:	And how is it that you remember him so vividly?



	H:	Number one, because he made himself visible on the campus. And all of us students during my era of high school, we idolized the members of the faculty. And the principal, as we very well know, was in charge of the faculty, head of the school. It was a very rewarding experience. I shall never forget it.

	W:	Who were some of your favorite teachers at Mebane? What were their subjects, and why do you recall them?

	H:	Well, one of my favorite teachers Mr. Clearthur Hathcott. He was a mathematics teacher. As a result of him, I know my time tables front to back, upside down, because of him. Miss Mattie Medlock, she taught English. She gave me some very good instructional writing. Mr. Richard Thomas, another math instructor. Mr. Limas Burgess was the P.E. instructor and my football coach. Mr. Alvin Banks, my science instructor. Miss Lois Harris taught me business administration and typing, A-S-D-F-J-K-L-semi—the homerow key for





typing. And I learned all that from A. L. Mebane High School, from the members of the faculty that were my teachers.

	W:	You mentioned football; could you talk a little about that and any other extracurricular leadership experiences that you had at Mebane?

	H:	I played basketball and football at A. L. Mebane High School. My senior year in high school, I was the quarterback. We was undefeated that year. Only twelve points were scored on A. L. Mebane High School the entire year. Lake City— Richardson High of Lake City scored six points, we defeated them twenty-six to six; and Lincoln High School here in Gainesville, called Big Red, we tied with them, six-six. All the other competition that we had that year, we did not permit the team to score at all.

	W:	Do you remember who those schools were that you played in that undefeated season?

	H:	Yes.



	W:	Could you list them please?



	H:	Madison Training School in Madison was one. Jerkins High School in Taylor County was one. St. Augustine, the high school was one. That’s all I can recall right now. But we played ten games, and we won all of the games that we played, and only two opponents scored on us.

	W:	What do you credit that successful season to? What were the factors?



Coaching? Teamwork? Philosophy? What do you think today were the elements of that great team?





	H:	Well, of course, number one, was the coaching. And then of course, we had committed, dedicated players. I want to make this distinctively clear: whenever you have a winning team, it is not always totally the coach. You got to have people with ability, people with certain skills, and they exercise those skills in the playing arena. I think very little information is provided for the people who actually do the work. The coaches had—to my knowledge and my experience, the coaches is very limited. It’s the people who have the skills. And the coach can advise how they can harness their skills, but the fact that’s still eminent: the skills had to be in the player. And so the players should be given a much more recognition than many of them are. The team is successful, they highlight the coach. Well, if he didn’t have the players, there would be no team. And so the team should be highly recognized, and given as much credit as the coach, because they are the ones on the front line.

W:  Could you talk a little bit about your professional career? You mentioned thirty- five years in agricultural extension, if I’m correct. Could you elaborate a little bit more on that?

	H:	I worked for the Department of Agriculture for thirty-five years, here in Alachua County. I was hired by the state director, named Mr. O. P. MacArthur. He’s deceased now. And during the time of my employment, racism was very bad. When Mr. MacArthur hired me, some people wanted to run him out of town. He was the state director, he made the decision to hire me, and they didn’t like it. And so he’d say to them, say, “The man need a chance just like everybody else to work.” And so, I started out at the grassroot level. And with the help of the





Lord, and my perseverance and my commitment, I elevated to one of the managerial position with the Department of Agriculture. It was not without its disappointments. It was a situation where I really had to stand up and fight for my rights. I had to threaten a federal lawsuit, just to get promoted, just to get recognized. And once I filed the lawsuit, and I was victorious in it, I thought from that point on I would be treated fairly. Point in question, I was placed in a dead- end slot, a GS-4 position. And the statement was made: “We’ll see that he doesn’t get any higher.” And so, for ten or twelve years I kept a log. One of my aspirations when I went off to college, I wanted to become an attorney. So I realized and recognized how important facts, and dates, and events were. So I made a log. And I had a log of over ten years. And then at that point, I had enough, and I confronted the state director about being promoted. And I indicated to him that if a promotion wasn’t granted, I was going to file a lawsuit.

Needless to say, the request was not granted, so I filed the lawsuit, and I was promoted five steps at one time, from a GS-4 to a GS-9. And I thought from a GS-9, after they had saw the errors of their ways, that they would treat me humanly and fairly from that point on. That did not happen. I had to continually fight to be promoted. And I was promoted from a GS-9 to a GS-11, had to fight from the GS-9 to GS-11, had to fight from the GS-11 to the GS-12. When I retired, I was a GS-12, managing one of the departments.

	W:	Were your duties in the United States Deptartment of Agriculture broad-ranged with everyone, or did you primarily represent the interests and deal with agriculture issues as they related to African Americans?





	H:	No, no, it was totally—the Farm Service Agency is the agency that provide the instruction for farmers throughout the state as Congress pass the regulation. The incident that just recently occurred as a result of Hurricane Debbie in Suwannee County, where they have all the sinkholes and farmland, had been destroyed.

That come under the scope of the Farm Service Agency to rehabilitate that land. And we provide a service as Congress dictate to us. And so my job, I was a state office representative. And I traveled throughout the state, and I had to check on work that was done in that particular county as it relates to the regulation: were the employees adhering to regulation, et cetera, et cetera. And as a state office representative, my job responsibility was to travel throughout the state.

	W:	When Barack Obama was running for senator, he spoke in the state of Iowa about the situation with Black farmers as it related to the Pigford Settlement; the lack of equity and loans over the years which caused some Black farm households to lose their homes, to lose their farms. In 1900, there were one million black farmers, and today there are less than twenty thousand Black farm households. What do you think is the role of the federal government in dealing with that issue of there being fewer Black farm households now? Or is that something that’s even relevant, in your opinion?

	H:	Well, I think it’s relevant. I think what caused some of the Black farmers to lose their farm is because of the mistreatment from Farmers Home Administration or the agency of the federal government that make farm loans. Particularly when I was working, I had to go to a particular meeting where Black farmers stated emphatically in the meeting that they had been denied loans when White





counterparts had been granted loans, and there was a lawsuit that was placed in the course procedure to try to eliminate that. So the problem is, the Blacks lost a lot of their farms because of the lack of being able to get loans.

	W:	Do you think that remedies such as the Pigford Settlement, that offer fifty thousand dollars to eligible Black farm households in compensation for not getting those loans in the past will help bring the situation of Black farmers back, or do you think that that ship has sailed, and it’s just kind of what it is now?

	H:	I don’t think it’ll help bring the Black farmers back. Fifty thousand dollars is—it might help them with some of their other living expenses. But as far as to bring them back and get in the mainstream line of farming again, it’s going to take more than fifty thousand dollars.

	W:	Well, thank you for allowing to explore some of the elements of your life and career. And now, I’d like to bring us to that part of the interview which is the main focus today, which is to talk about President Obama. So, in getting to that, let me ask the first question: how long have you been a Democrat?

	H:	Ever since I was eligible to vote. Eighteen. And I’m sixty-nine now. So that’s roughly forty-one, forty-two years.

	W:	Could you please describe how you became a Democrat?



	H:	The only thing that I ever knew is that Democrats has the philosophy of catering to or providing benefits for poor, deprived, underprivileged individuals. And of course, focusing on that, and I was a candidate of that description. So, I registered as a Democrat.





	W:	Was there any particular person that encouraged you to register Democrat, or were your parents Democratic? Why the Democratic party in particular?

	H:	Because of the information that was provided in terms of, you can be better served with the Democratic party.

	W:	What is it that you love about being a Democrat?



	H:	Well, number one, I think as a Democrat we try to look at all peoples equally in terms of those who are poor, those who are underprivileged, to try to give them an advantage that they become productive citizens. I think the Democratic party platform responds to that issue more than the Republican.

	W:	Now, you were elected mayor, as an African-American, of a rural north Florida town, in High Springs. Could you talk about how that came about, and how being a Democrat maybe played a role in your success?

	H:	Well, it came about as a result—I moved to High Springs at a very early age. I went to elementary school there. And I lived there, and met my high school sweetheart; she lived in High Springs. And so, I saw the operation of city government, and how Blacks were disenfranchised—in other words, was not being treated fairly at all. And the members of the city commission, of course, was all Caucasian. And so, I formulated in my mind as a result of my work experience—and I was experiencing some of the same unfairness—to run for city commission. The first time I ran, I was not successful. The second time I ran, I won. It was a very learning experience. It put me in the midst of, to some degree, some hostile setting because I was the only Afro-American and was the first elected official in that town. And a lot of people could not accept that. I was





elected in the early [19]70s, during the [19]70s when racial tension was at its highest. The Civil Rights Movement was in high gear, so of speak, and I was elected. Another one of the experiences, when former Governor Bob Graham was the Governor of Florida, I went up there representing the city of High Springs to a meeting in Tallahassee, and the city would not even defray my expense; would not even pay for the expense for me to go. It was such a racist thing. But that didn’t discourage me. I went, I paid my own expense to go. And as a result of it, serving on the city commission for eighteen years, out of the eighteen years, four of those years I served as the chief executive, as the mayor for the city of High Springs. And I’m very pleased with the contribution that I was very helpful and instrumental in bringing to the city of High Springs. I give all of the credit to my relationship with the Lord, because righteousness is the order of the day. Just seek to do what’s right. You going to take care all of the people. We’ve been able to get more done for the city of High Springs since the history of the town that relegates itself, or lends itself, toward Afro-Americans. We was able to get a street named, Dr. Martin Luther King; we wrote legislation to increase benefits for all of the employees. I got one of the employees a thirty-six hundred dollar raise in one year. And it’s all because of practicing doing what’s right. I enjoyed serving as an elected official in High Springs. And many of the citizens of High Springs now realize and recognize the contribution that I made during these turbu[lent] years. And they’re pursuing me to consider running again for reelection. Of course, I have not made that decision yet.





W:  Do you have other colleagues or role models who were Democrats that helped during your time and leadership at High Springs, and perhaps even people that you still confide in today?

	H:	There are Democrats that, when I served on the City Commission if I was having a problem with some situation and needed that additional information, I would contact them. That’s the political process. You need to have a reservoir of contacts to try to get things accomplished. As far as one that that would supersede another one, I wouldn’t say that was the case. But you do have to have contacts.

	W:	Did you have relations with other African-American mayors of High Springs in the time since—you were the first, but there have been others since then?

	H:	Yes, yes, there’s been two others. There’s been the late Essie Gassett, was an educator. She followed me as the second African-American, and the first female. And then of course, Reverend Byran Williams, he’s following Miss Gassett. At the present, we do not have any Afro-American representation on the city commission at all in High Springs.

	W:	I remember Mayor Gassett when Buddy McKay was running for Governor, Rick Dansler came to town, and so through the Young Democrats I was encouraged to come to High Springs to meet him. Now, I didn’t know where High Springs was at that time. We met out on Main Street, and she was there, and the Lt. governor candidate came through. And I found her to be a delightful lady. It was a pleasure to know, very briefly. Could you share what you remember from the first time you voted for a Democratic presidential candidate? What was that like?





	H:	Well, I’ve always voted for the Democratic candidate for president, but the first one, I can’t recall when that was.

	W:	Well, just talk about these, the last two: Clinton and Obama. What were your thoughts about those two men being elected?

	H:	Of course, I voted Democratic in both of those elections. Number one, I thought that I felt that Bill Clinton was more in line and in tune with the grassroot of people. I thought he could relate to all people better than the Republican. I thought Bill Clinton would do the best job, particularly for Afro-Americans, as far as trying to make things better economically for Afro-Americans. And then of course, as goes without saying, President Obama is, as far as I am concerned, is one of the greatest things that ever happened to this country. To elect an Afro- American president, it has sent a message to this whole world, where some has been misled as though we was not scholars, that we could not learn, that we could not administrate. And I think all those myths has been annihilated now since we have an Afro-American president of these United States. And as far as I’m concerned, he’s doing a yeoman of a job.

	W:	You speak to him in an admirational tone; you admire him. H:	Yes.

	W:	What is it that you admire about him?



	H:	Well, I admire about him, number one, because of his perseverance; I admire him because I can relate to him as an Afro-American. The struggle that I’ve gone through as an Afro-American to arise at the point where I am, it has not been easily. I remember quite vividly the Jim Crow’s laws. I went through that area of





White and Colored drinking fountains, White and Colored bathrooms. I went through the era where Blacks were not even allowed to use restrooms; you couldn’t stay in motels; if you wanted to buy food from a restaurant, you couldn’t go in the front entrance, you had to go around to the back. I lived through that entire area of every year now the High Springs community school invite me to come and lecture on the Jim Crows laws to the fifth and sixth graders in High Springs. It has been an experience coming through that area, but I try to use those experiences to try to enlighten people that they can have a better life, too.

	W:	Could you please share a memorable moment, even if it’s a small one, in the way a specific family member or friend reacted when you first shared the news of President Obama’s election victory with them?

	H:	That is sort of self-explanatory. Vast majority of all the Afro-Americans that I talk with was excited, ecstatic, exuberant, that we had reached a point in this country that an Afro-American can be elected as president of the United States, where in time past it was almost shut out of existence. And for this to happen, that I think was a handiwork moving of a higher power.

	W:	So you remember the campaigns of Julian Bond, Shirley Chisholm, Jessie Jackson, and their presidential aspirations.

	H:	Yes.



	W:	What do you think set those individuals apart from what President Obama was able to accomplish? I mean, why was he different than Jackson or Shirley Chisholm, for example?





	H:	I think Reverend Jackson, and Shirley Chisholm, and those who attempted prior to Presidential Obama, I think they helped set the stage for President Obama. I feel strongly if President Obama did not have had the opportunity of these individuals aspiring for that position, I don’t think President Obama would have been as successful being the first. Somebody had to test the water. And as a result of testing the water, some people who was in opposition rethought their positions, say, “Well, this is not as bad as I thought it was.” Predicated upon that analogy, I think that was a plus for President Obama when he was elected.

	W:	How far do you think we are away from electing the first African-American woman president of the United States?

	W:	I feel, number one, if we can maintain and reelect President Obama, I think she would have a better chance whenever she does attempt that position. But I think at this juncture, I think it’s almost an insurmountable task to elect a female Afro- American president. Because you got to take into consideration, this country has never had a female Caucasian president. And history being what it is, you know they tend to think that Caucasian has to be first.

	W:	Maybe Sasha and Malia, since they’re growing up in the White House. What are you doing right now to ensure President Obama’s 2012 reelection?

	H:	Well I’m trying to encourage Afro-Americans particularly that how fortunate and blessed we are to have an Afro-American president, and to do all that I can, and for them to do all that they can, to be assured that he is reelected. I agree with everything he has done, for exception of one: I don’t agree with the statement of same-sex marriage. Other than that he’s been a yeoman, he’s been marvelous,





he’s been excellent. And the reason that I take a stance against same-sex marriage is because it’s not Biblical; it’s not kosher; it tends to degrade our society. That’s my point of contention with same-sex marriage. It does not lend itself to growing and developing children to maintain the role of a male and a female. And I think we all have to agree that in society, we must have those distinctions. And same-sex marriage doesn’t provide that.

	W:	Is there a specific policy, or law, or issue, that President Obama supports that you really like, and that you believe he will deliver if awarded a second term?

	H:	As I said earlier, the decision that President Obama has done—and another thing that people need to recognize: the problems that President Obama has, he inherited them. It’s not like he was created them, and he’s trying to resolve them. And to some degree, he has resolved some of them; look at the bailout for the automobile industry. At least he tried and had been successful in that area. Now the unemployment has not risen as much as I would like for it, and I’m sure President Obama would like for it to be much higher, but you have to give him credit: he’s doing all that he can do in spite of the opposition to try turn that around, unemployment.

	W:	What are your thoughts about President Obama ordering a successful raid that led to the assassination of Osama Bin Laden, who was the mastermind of the 9/11 bombings?

	H:	I think he made an excellent decision. And I think some of his predecessors who had an opportunity to do something differently, I think they failed in regards to that. And I think the decision that President Obama made to rid this country of





that kind of behavior with this particular leader was admirable and was right. Obama gave the command to annihilate Bin Laden because he was a threat to the American people, he was a threat to the humane of America, and I think when he gave the command to take him out, if you will, it was right, it was prudent. And I think all of us would have to agree that as far as peace in these United States as a result of Bin Laden had been removed off the scene, it has been to our benefit.

	W:	That was perfect. What do you fear the most about this election?



	H:	My greatest fear about this election is that if President Obama is not reelected, and Mitt Romney is elected, we going to see a great turn in this country for the detriment of many, many peoples of the human race. I think President Obama has the heart of the peoples on his agenda. One of the things he’s requested: that the rich be more concerned in terms of paying more taxes, et cetera, et cetera, instead of penalizing the middle class or the lower people. Because the tax structure that is set up now, I pay more taxes than some rich people. And I’m in the middle class.

	W:	How confident are you that President Obama will be reelected?



	H:	Well, after having been an elected official, I think you need to always challenge your campaign as though you the underdog. You can’t become too overconfident that I’m going to be elected, or reelected; you’ve got to run as if it’s a possibility that you could not be victorious. And so, predicated upon that, I think that you should always keep in mind that the winner is not determined until the votes are counted. And so, when you’re running for a position, you run as though there’s a





distinct possibility that you could lose. Now, it’s good to have the confidence and say to convince yourself, “I’m going to be reelected.” But the fact is imminent that you have to get out and work, you have to present yourself as though you the underdog. Now, that’s been my experience as an elected official. And I know several of my friends who’ve lost elections as a result of thinking that they were a shoo-in, and they did not aggressively get out and campaign as they should have, and as a result of it they lost the race.

	W:	Is President Obama running hard enough?



	H:	Yes, I think he’s doing everything humanly possible to try to be reelected. One of the things that I would like to see a little emphasis placed on: I don’t like dirty politics. I don’t like trying to discourage your opponent in such a way by painting a bad picture; if it’s factual, that’s good. But as far as running a dirty campaign, I try to stay away from that. I think that every candidate should run on his or her own merits. And I think that speaks volumes for the individual without trying to lambaste your opponent.

	W:	Florida is a very unusual state; people talk about how the further south you go, the further north you’re coming. And the further north you go in Florida, the further south you’re going. We’ve had some very unusual situations with our elections throughout the year. I’d like to know, were you surprised, not so much that President Obama was elected in 2008, but that he was elected and carried the state of Florida? And if so, what are your thoughts about what special things need to be done in Florida so that we can put the electoral votes of Florida in the column for President Obama this time?





	H:	I think Florida has come a long ways in terms of divisiveness, race relations. I think number one, what helped President Obama in Florida, he could relate to the Floridians. And I think as a result of his efforts with the grassroot people, I think that weighed heavily in his campaign in terms of contributions, in terms of even getting votes to be elected. I think that if President Obama is reelected, I think Florida will benefit significantly as a result of reelected President Obama.

	W:	Reverend Hickmon, on behalf of the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program, I’d like to thank you for taking this time to give your reflections on your life and on the upcoming reelection, candidacy of President Barack Obama. We appreciate you taking the time out of the day to come here; that’s something you didn’t have to do, so it’s very much appreciated. With that thanks I’d like to give you the opportunity for final privilege. Maybe there’s something we didn’t talk about in the election, or some thought you have now. But whatever it might be, these are my last comments. Feel free, the floor is open to you to say anything you would like. And at the conclusion of your remarks, that will conclude the interview with our thanks.

	H:	Well, I’m very appreciative that I was invited to come and make an expression in this momentous event that is taking place, the reelection of President Obama. I think this country for the longest has been deprived because of the backward thinking of certain individuals. I think we have a wonderful country. I think if we all come to the point of learning to appreciate each other, we can add tremendously to the benefit and quality of life for each other. I wrote an article in town entitled, “How to Have a Successful Life.” And some of the contents of that article: you,





first of all, you must come to realize who you are. All of us are given by God certain rights and abilities. And if we would focus those rights and abilities that God has provided for each of us, we can enrich. Each of our lives can be greatly enhanced. And with that having been said, I’m grateful and I’m thankful for how God has allowed me, the short while that I’ve lived, to have been able to touch the lives of many peoples; my profession as a minister, it was never on the agenda for me to become a Minister. When I finished high school, I wanted to become an attorney. But I’m happier now than I’ve ever been in my life. I like what I do, trying to reach out to people and trying to be a blessing to people, to turn them, to help them focus in the thing that is proper for them. And in closing, after having been married over fifty years, and reared two sons and a daughter, and have ten grands now—which four or five of them are in college now—I think that I’ve been able to touch the lives of my immediate family. And that’s very gratifying when you can touch your immediate family lives and of course it goes without saying you touch the lives of other people. Thank you for having me, and if I can be of any service to humanity, during the course of your program, I would be honored and happy to do whatever I can. Thank you again.

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Unknown



	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, March 21, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 22, 2019