AAHP 095; Walker; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 095 Treva Walker

African American History Project (AAHP) Interview conducted by Anna Brodrecht on August 21, 2010

16 minutes | 9 pages



Abstract: Treva Walker grew up in Perry, Florida, and describes her experiences with education in Perry. She also describes a little of her family history, and mentions having attended Florida A&M University after graduation, and living in different parts of the US after that.





Keywords: [African American History; Taylor County, Florida; Jerkins High School]



























































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 095

Interviewee: Treva Walker Interviewer: Anna Brodrecht Date: August 21, 2013



	B:	Okay. So we’ll start off with—well first of all, I’m Anna Brodrecht from the Oral History Program at University of Florida. We’re recording this as part of our African American History Project. So I’ll just ask you kind of general things about your life, and what it was like growing up in Florida, and that kind of thing. And then, tons of stuff about Jerkins and what it was like to go here, and that kind of thing. And you’re welcome to interrupt me at any point or to say that you don’t want to talk about something; that’s fine, too, and we’ll just move right on. Is that all right?

	W:	Yeah.



	B:	Okay. So we’ll start by getting you to say your name and spell it. W:	Treva Walker, T-R-E-V-A W-A-L-K-E-R.

	B:	Okay. And what years did you go to Jerkins? W:	I graduated in 1945, the class of [19]45.

	B:	Okay. And so, did you do your whole-from first grade to-?



	W:	No, unh-uh. The old school burned down. We had to start going to school in the



K.P. Hall, and different churches [inaudible 1:06]. When we graduated, we were not in the Jerkins building. See, the old building was over [inaudible 1:19], and they built this one, they put it in later years, I don’t know exactly what year. Because I left before it.

	B:	Oh okay.



	W:	So, I’ve been living here I guess a good [inaudible 1:36], or— B:	Experience.





	W:	Term, yeah. But I don’t know too much about the move. This building, I don’t know too much about it.

	B:	Okay, so you went to Jerkins while it was in churches, and—



	W:	Yeah. The old building, it burned. Then we went in different churches, and halls, the Masonic Hall.

	B:	Okay. And then, by the time this building started, you had already graduated. Or left Florida.

	W:	Long, long ago. Mmhm. [Laughter]



	B:	So what was it like as part of your education having to move schools, and that kind of thing?

	W:	It was just the common thing to do, I guess, is go with the flow. There was nothing that we could do about it. They were nice enough to give us a space to play, and they were nice enough to let us have classrooms there. When we graduated, we were in the hall—the Masonic hall. I don’t know how they got a new building, because I left. I went to FAMU in [19]45. Yeah. And from there, I went to Jacksonville. And I’m just traveling [inaudible 03:15].

	B:	Great. Well, do you remember anything about, was there a community—you know, was the student body when you were there, was it kind of a community, or was it just like, “Let’s go to school, and take the lessons, and get out?”

W:  No, it was—in a small town like this, when you know everybody, and even after school, you know, we had things that we would do together. But I never played sports, but I would travel with the girls’ basketball team.

B:   Where all did you travel to?





	W:	Oh, like Quincy, and Monticello; different places that ball team would go, basketball team. I would go with them, but I didn’t play.

	B:	Okay. Did Jerkins have a good women’s basketball team? W:	Oh, yes! Yes, yes, mmhm.

	B:	I heard the football team was really good.



	W:	During that time, that’s all we had. We didn’t have a football team back then. But we had the basketball, girls’ and boys’.

	B:	Okay, that’s interesting. So then, the other sports would have developed once they moved into this building, and had a football field, had a space to have a football field, and things like that. Do you care to talk about what happened to the old building? Why did it burn?

	W:	Oh, I really don’t know. I don’t know what happened. I don’t know. As a matter of fact, I never heard anybody say.

	B:	It just, you went to school—I mean, do you remember what it was like to hear the news, or do you remember hearing—?

	W:	Well, see we lived, at that time, about three blocks over from the school. So when it happened—when it happened. I don’t even remember how it happened.

	B:	You don’t remember—



	W:	I don’t know whether it was a fire from the electricity; I don’t know. I don’t think it was burned down on purpose, I don’t think that. But.

	B:	And then if it burned three blocks down from where you were, was there a fear that the fire would spread to the houses or anything like that?

	W:	I don’t know. I wasn’t—





	B:	You don’t remember?



	W:	Mm-mm, wasn’t old enough to hear! [Laughter]



	B:	Okay, so you must have—were you younger, much younger at that point? First grade, second grade?

	W:	I went to school in that building. But by the time—I don’t know if it was senior year when it burned, I don’t know exactly what year it was.

	B:	Okay. Do you remember any of your teachers? W:	Mmhm.

	B:	What were their names?



	W:	We had Ms. Mildred Jones in elementary. And I had Hattie Walker, she’s been [inaudible 6:18]. And Ms. Mildred Jones, Ms. Jerkins—we had Ms. Jerkins.

	B:	Who was the wife of Mr. Jerkins, who was the principal at that point? W:	Yeah.

	B:	Okay.



	W:	Then after, by the time we graduated, he was gone. Mr. Homer Smith was our principal at that time.

	B:	Do you remember Laura Scott Reaves? W:	Uh-huh.

	B:	She was teaching then?



	W:	No, I don’t think so. I had two of her sisters in my class. But one left, got married—Ernestine got married and left. But Corine was still here. By the time we graduated, we only had about seven. Once we had the largest class in the school, but the boys headed to the Service. We lost all our boys.





	B:	That was World War II?



	W:	Uh-huh. We lost all our boys, and we had Corine Howell—well, she was Starke then—and Bertie Dawson, Bertha Lee Williams, Eula Mae Fisher, Cula Mae, Florence James, and myself. Just seven.

	B:	So your class went from fourteen kids to seven, when the war started? W:	Mmhm.

	B:	What did that feel like, to know that your friends, and your boyfriends, and everybody was going to war?

	W:	I can’t tell you about feelings, because I don’t remember, you know? [Laughter] I don’t remember the war. And then I left. After graduation, I left here to Tallahassee, FAMU, and left FAMU and went to Jacksonville. That’s where I got married, and start traveling everywhere. I lived in [inaudible 8:48], and in Pennsylvania once, Hollywood, Florida—to not mine. Life has just been good to me.

	B:	Good. Good. So, you look back and you have generally good memories of everything that happened, and your time here at Jerkins. Or not here-here, but in Perry. Did you keep in contact with people? After you left for FAMU, did you keep in contact with people here?

	W:	Yeah, because my family was here. I was born—I’m from, I was born almost in town, section called Radcliffe. I was born over there. When I was three years old we moved to [inaudible 09:34] around the corner. So, that’s all I knew. Then, I went to school, left there to Jacksonville, and I got married. Then moved to Pennsylvania. Stayed there for years. But I moved back since—. But I stayed in





Philly seven years. I don’t know if I was here when they built this building. Because my sister, still up there in Newberry, she started the first kindergarten.

	B:	Okay. In this building.



	W:	Not in this building, but in the area. And she had Head Start. She started the Head Start here, in this building. Then, they took the Head Start thing, put it under the school system. Moved them over after integration.

	B:	Okay. So, what was the Head Start program? Because I’ve heard several people mention it, but I don’t know what the Head Start program is.

	W:	It’s young kids, and I guess they’re underprivileged; I’m not sure. But everybody [inaudible 11:10] now, but it’s small children.

	B:	So, it’s like a pre-kindergarten thing. W:	Mmhm.

	B:	Where you come in a couple years before you would start kindergarten, and start learning, and getting used to the classroom, and okay.

	W:	Yeah. She would be able to tell you some more about that.



	B:	Do you remember anything about your—did you know your grandparents? Were they around when you were younger?

	W:	Mmhm, mmhm.



	B:	Do you remember any stories that they told you?



	W:	Not really. I used to live with them. And I ended up looking just like my grandma. B:	Really?





	W:	Really! [Laughter] But she died where she couldn’t walk without a doctor. But I just have lived a life, I’ve really—I’m writing a story, and I can think of everything to go in there, but I can’t think of a thing to say! [Laughter]

	B:	Yeah! Yeah, well, that’s okay. I’ll try to jog your memory with questions and things like that. Some people have told us that they remembered where their grandparents said they were from originally. Like, if they were in slavery in South Carolina and then moved to Florida after they were freed, or different things. Do you remember—?

	W:	No, mine didn’t go back that far. I don’t think they know anything about it. But integration, that was something they would know about. But I was the first Black computer operator on the Black side. And there’s young man down in Jonesville, computer operator, and we got to be friends. I was much older. He couldn’t buy drinks in a bar, he was so young. But he was grown, had two kids, and had a job. Really good [inaudible 13:21]. And my momma said, “You talk about integration? Treva done integrated Perry!” Because he’d come home and meet her. In order [inaudible 13:37] from the bars before he go home to family. [Laughter] So, we going into this shop, I finished my degree in Philadelphia, and I moved to Florida. We had to help—I went to Jacksonville from [inaudible 14:10]. So then, I had a shop here. And when he decided he wanted to try something, this young man, and he sent for me and asked if I would be interested. But people at that time, they would say all kinds of negative things about you. You know? But anyway, I’ve had a good life.

	B:	Despite all the setbacks with segregation—





	W:	Yeah, yeah.



	B:	—and all these things, you feel like you’ve—



	W:	Because I went right on to work there. And the people that resented me, I heard them [inaudible 14:55], when I got through there, she wouldn’t let nobody else touch it. [Inaudible 15:05] She wouldn’t nobody else touch it. Okay. That’s for me.

	B:	Well thank you so much for talking with me. I know you’re in a rush, and you got to do things.

	W:	I wish I could stay; this is awful!



	B:	Can I get you to sign this form to say that we put you, this interview, in the archives? And if you need it out of the University of Florida archives for your memoir, then you’re welcome to it. It’s not like the University of Florida is the only one that can use it. It’s just right there. And good luck on your memoir. I would like to read that.

	W:	All right. Stay in touch!



	B:	Yeah we will. I can finish everything else. Thank you so much; let me help you out.

[End of interview]





Transcribed by:  Richard Brust, September 9, 2015 Audit-edited by: Ryan Morini, September 27, 2017 Final edit by: