AAHP 137; Shaw; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 137 Dwayne Shaw

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Candice Ellis on September 4, 2010 8 minutes | 7 pages



Abstract: In this short interview, Dwayne Shaw discusses his time at the University of Florida in the early 2000s.



Keywords: [University of Florida]



































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 137

Interviewee: Dwayne Shaw Interviewer: Candice Ellis Date: September 4, 2010



	E:	I’m Candice Ellis. S:	Dwayne Shaw.

	E:	Nice to meet you. It is September 4, 2010, and we are here doing interviews today. It’s best to probably start at the beginning; if you could tell me where you were born and when.

	S:	I was born in Bronx, New York. I was pretty much raised down in South Florida in Fort Lauderdale area.

	E:	What part of Fort Lauderdale? S:	A place called North Lauderdale.

	E:	Where did you go to high school? S:	Fort Lauderdale High School.

	E:	Oh my gosh, I’m a Flying Owl, too. S:	Are you? [Laughter]

	E:	Yeah. What year did you graduate? S:	I graduated in [19]99.

	E:	Okay I was 2007, so a little while later. That’s so cool. S:	Now you’re making me feel old, but it’s okay. [Laughter]

	E:	Oh whatever, you’re not that old. Wow, that’s great. So from South Florida, Fort Lauderdale High School, Flying Owl alum, Gator alum; connections here. Did you go to UF right after your graduated or did you take some time off?

	S:	No, I went right away.





	E:	Did you know what you wanted to do where you were in high school or did you make that decision later?

	S:	I thought I knew what I wanted to do. I think like most people you come in and you always have an idea in your life, and then certain things change or occur and then you’re like, “Oh, okay.” [Laughter] Certain things change.

	E:	So what did you end up doing?



	S:	I started off doing DIS at the time, or Business. I later transferred over to the College of Journalism, graduated with a degree in Advertising.

	E:	Okay, we’ll bring it back just a little bit, can you tell me about your family: siblings, what your parents did?

	S:	I’m really the first one to really go to college and graduate from college. My mom, dad they’re both from Jamaica. As far as my mom, she was more in the nursing field and my father he was entrepreneur, per se.

	E:	What did he do?



	S:	He owned a couple of nursing homes.



	E:	Okay, that’s pretty interesting. Did they push you to go to college? Because I know I was pushed.

	S:	No, they didn’t. They kind of just both kind of allowed me to kind of guide myself.



It was something I wanted to do because I just believe in progressing in life.



	E:	I’m sorry did you say you had any siblings?



	S:	I do. I have three sisters, three older sisters. I’m actually the baby. E:	Did they beat you up a lot? Pick on you?

	S:	Uh, no. [Laughter] Luckily they didn’t.





	E:	That’s good. What did they do? Did they end up going to UF?



	S:	No, they actually later graduated from other schools. One just did a community college and got her AA. The others eventually got some degrees, I’m not sure what college, but up in upstate New York.

	E:	Where did you live on campus your first year?



	S:	I just remember this number: I was 952 on the waiting list for a dorm. That number sticks with me to this day. I end up never living on campus. I actually lived in Oxford Manor for three years. My final year I just lived in a small apartment by myself.

	E:	I can’t believe 952 on the waiting list. They must have been even more overpopulated then than they are now. That’s ridiculous.

	S:	Lack of dorms. It looks like Gainesville has definitely overbuilt itself in the past few years.

	E:	Were you on Bright Futures? S:	Yes.

	E:	What a great deal that is, right? S:	Yes, definitely.

	E:	Were you involved in any student organizations or clubs, maybe a fraternity or something like that?

	S:	I was overly involved. Overly involved. Man, where do I start? Okay. [Laughter] I was in the Caribbean Student Association. I was past treasurer. I was also past president of CaribSA. I was a Cicerone, so I worked a lot with the Alumni Association. I was in the Black Student Union. I am actually one of the original





founders of Apocalypse Dance Troupe. I did Student Government Productions with the concerts. I did the Minority Business Society, the Ad Society. I did quite a few things. I stayed very busy. I just believed that you needed to make the university yours when you came here. I guess one of my concerns was that when you come here it’s a large school. And at the time—I don’t know what the student population is now, but I think a few years back it was around fifty thousand. It was just like okay, well how do you make yourself stand out in fifty thousand?

What do you do? What legacy, what impact are you going to leave on the university? Being involved is one of the ways I chose to do UF.

	E:	That’s a lot of stuff that you were involved with. You said you were a DIS major?



What is that exactly?



	S:	Decision Information Sciences, more of the IT/MIS background. E:	Why did you want to switch to Journalism?

	S:	I didn’t like the format of the Business School. I thought the Business School was a little large. As far as some of the initial classes being on TV, I personally didn’t enjoy it. And after a while I was just like okay this is not for me. I do enjoy Marketing. I was kind of comparing whether I wanted to stay in Business and do Marketing or if I actually wanted to do Advertising. I think Advertising just encompassed a little of everything of what I was more interested in. So I decided to pursue that route.

	E:	What do you do now?



	S:	A sales rep at Kraft Foods. E:	Oh cool. Where do you live?





	S:	In Fort Lauderdale.



E:  What part of Fort Lauderdale? S:  I actually went back home.

E:  That’s so crazy that you’re from Fort Lauderdale and you went to Fort Lauderdale High School. Did you do events like Gator Growl all that, all the obligatory football stuff, homecoming?

S:   I usually sold my football tickets when I got them [Laughter]. I did do Gator Growl a couple times.

	E:	Yeah Gator Growl, it’s fun a few times, kind of interesting I guess. Are there any faculty that really stood out, who were kind of a mentor?

	S:	Dean Earl, he was in the College of Engineering. I probably had the closest relationship with him when I was here. He recently retired a few years ago.

	E:	Do you keep in touch with him? S:	Every once in a while.

	E:	A lot of professors have Facebook now. You can Facebook chat with your old professors. Is there anything you would like to add? Anything you think is of great importance?

	S:	Pretty much said it all. In life you can’t just expect things to happen. You kind of have to make them happen. When I was here I enjoyed my time.

	E:	Were you a good student?



	S:	I think I was better in high school [Laughter]. I had my fair share of challenges. I still graduated with a GPA a little higher than a 3.0. 3-something, I don’t remember. But I did okay. I did okay.





	E:	Do you still keep in touch with a lot of the people who you were in the clubs with and everything? Your friends?

	S:	No, as you get older life tends to occur; people have families, marriages. Good thing with the social networking sites such as Facebook and things like that, you still do keep in contact with people to some extent. You’re able to follow what they’re doing, where they’re at, where they’re living, if they’re married, if they have kids, you know what the kids’ names, how many kids.

	E:	So connected and updated all the time. All right, well thank you so much for your time. I hope we didn’t keep you too long from the celebration.

	S:	Not a problem. [End of Interview]





	Audit edited by:	Holland Hall, July 27, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 19, 2019