AAHP 178; Klemm; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 178 Randy Klemm

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Ayana Flewellen on July 11, 2011 38 minutes | 16 pages



Abstract: Randy Klemm speaks about representations of African Americans in the Civil War in museum exhibits, and also about visitor/viewer engagement with exhibits. Much of the conversation also deals with the best ways to challenge preconceptions and strengthen visitor engagement with exhibits and with materials.





[Keywords: African American History; Heritage; Museum Studies; Civil War]



SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.























































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 178

Interviewee: Randy Klemm Interviewer: Ayana Flewellen Date: July 11, 2011



	[Preliminary discussion about fire alarm and possible rescheduling for interview.] K:	Do you have time?

	F:	Yes, that would be perfect.



	K:	Okay. Good. Also, there’s something I really wanted to tell you about. I talked to a colleague of mine, we’d worked together years ago at another museum. Her name is Wisteria Perry. She is out at the Mariners’ Museum now. She portrayed for many, many, years out at Pamplin Historical Park. We did living history, and she was an interpreter. She interpreted the life of a slave for many, many years, and she has devoted much of her career in the study of African American Women during the Civil War. And I took the liberty of calling her the other day and I asked her if she might be able to help with your project and she said that she’d be happy to help.

	F:	Thank you so much!



	K:	Sure, sure. And, to be honest, she is the expert on the subject, not me. I’d be happy to answer your questions today, but I’m guessing I’ll probably defer to her on a number of topics. And I think she’s probably just a better source. I can give you her email address if you want to set up an interview.

	F:	Yes, please.



	K:	Okay, her name is Wisteria Perry. F:	Uh-huh.





	K:	So, those are just a couple things. And like I said I don’t know when the technician is gonna arrive, but he’s gonna give me a call on my cell and like I said, we’re having a real problem this morning.

	F:	I mean if you’d like we can reschedule.



	K:	Well, there’s not much I can do until he arrives actually. So, I actually do have time and I’m free—it’s not that I don’t want to help—I don’t know—well let’s see as your questions go how much I know, but I’m happy to help.

	F:	Okay. I know you mainly discussed that you wouldn’t be a formalist on the history of women and the Civil War, but I really just wanted to get your opinion on the representations just in general of African Americans.

	K:	Well, the thing is, I’ve tried to bone up on the subject a little bit. I know quite a bit about African American men in the Civil War. I’ve worked at a couple different museums where we’ve taken in collections and there’s certainly—I would say that the study of African Americans in the Civil War is definitely under researched, under studied, it wasn’t the focus of scholarship for probably the first century after the war but it’s a real gold mine of information that people have not done yet. So, I think it’s a great avenue to go towards and I think that it’s underrepresented and of the two, as far as African American men and African American women in the Civil War, African American women, as I’ve found, is really underrepresented as far as research and articles and that kind of stuff.

Books, these kind of things. So, I think there’s new ground to be gained there as far as scholarship. If that makes any sense.

	F:	It does. [Laughter]





	K:	Good.



	F:	Do you find that that underrepresentation is often reflected in museums? Not just specifically the one that you work at.

	K:	I think so. I think at least with our museum, as I said the other day, when we start talking about artifacts, that’s trouble. We have the battle flags, we have the guns, but we don’t have material culture related to African Americans, particularly women during the war. But, that doesn’t mean that you can’t represent it through other ways, through text and that kind of thing. So, yes, I think we try to feature the life of African Americans here, but I think we probably focus too much on the war rather than the Homefront. And that’s something that we’ve actually discussed amongst ourselves as far as what we want our museum to be about. I was surprised—with the latest big exhibit on the Civil War was done here in Richmond at the Virginia Historical Society—It was really surprising they devoted half of the story of the exhibit on the Homefront, rather than the war, and that’s new. And I think that more and more places are gonna go in that direction and I did mention last week about the interactive of trying to show the life of the fugitive slave.

	F:	Yeah.



	K:	It’s a wonderful interactive, just great. And it’s really just the highlight of that show, all of it actually. So, I think they did a great job and I think more and more places are gonna see that and do that kind of thing because it reflects the life of people that—yeah I think they’ve been underrepresented in museums and





scholarship for a long, long time. But I do see them as a lot more light is going to be shown on that subject as scholarship goes forward.

	F:	Uh-huh. And do you think that with these technological advances because I know they also had something similar to that at the Freedom Center in Cincinnati, Ohio.

	K:	Oh, they do?



	F:	Yeah, cause when I recently went up there—As a fugitive slave you could actually choose where you wanted to hide. If you wanted to hide in the bushes, underneath the floor boards, and it became like this almost as if you are, the visitor, was experiencing it.

	K:	Yep, it’s very similar. We didn’t have those options as far as what you take with you, your interactions with the people that you meet and you’re given a series of options and typically it leads to really bad consequences, being caught essentially. But, yeah it sounds really similar. I didn’t realize that that was up in Cincinnati, but, yes, like I say, I thought that this was the highlight of that exhibit and that’s a traveling exhibit and that’s gonna go across the country through the sesquicentennial. So, I think a lot of people are going to learn about something that they—maybe they know little bit about Uncle Tom’s Cabin or something like that, maybe—but I think this really opens minds. And you never know where those seeds may—I always think of when I was a kid going to museums and how much I loved it and here I am. You just never know.

	F:	Yeah. I have like the same experience every time I go up to see my family in



D.C. we always make a trip to see all the museums there, and it’s one of the





reasons why I’m so fascinated with representations as they come through museums because those were literally my first views into history. Without history classes or anything like that—

	K:	Sure.



	F:	was going to those museums and the knowledge that came from them really stuck with me.

	K:	And I, once a year we’d go down to Chicago as kids. I grew up about an hour north of it and then we’d take the train and then it was like, well, this is where the smart people are. You’d just see these great big buildings and all of this is—A much wider world out there. But, anyway, do you have another question?

	F:	Yes, I know you mentioned specifically, just clothing that wasn’t really kept amongst African Americans or didn’t really find its way into the archeological record. Could you just state for me because you mentioned guns and flags, what items do typically make it into the archeological record and would end up in museum exhibits?

	K:	Pottery, typically. Slave made pottery. Quilts have come down. And actually I would defer to Wisteria on this one. She also is a quilter and she worked a lot with the costumes back at Pamplin. As far as what—It’s kind of hit or miss as far as what gets handed down and the examples that we have on display now include a rice pestle taken from a plantation in South Carolina. And a large slave made earthenware pot. And then the other thing—Here’s the trouble. So, oftentimes you really can’t say that this was related to a slave, but then we do have manacles from a slave ship off of a wreck in the gulf of Mexico. So, we





know that that was related to slavery as well. But, everyday items, buttons, a few things, but I think you said last week it was somebody you knew who worked was on a plantation dig—

F:   Uh-huh.



K:  And I mean they came up with a few buttons and that’s about it. There’s not much. There really isn’t. It’s just a problem representing through artifacts, at least, historic artifacts.

F:  And you mentioned earlier that even though you don’t have a lot of material culture, there are other means to kind of get—

	K:	Sure. Photographs, there are certainly a number of well-known photographs of representation, life in the South. Images taken as federal armies came into the South they did take images of African Americans and their life. And, so, although we may not have the dress of a slave, we have an image of several newly freed slaves, and you can see what their wearing and things like that. And, of course, text telling the story. Or, if you’ve got lots of money, like I said, what they did at the Virginia Historical Society, it’s marvelous. Taking you through the footsteps of running to the North.

	F:	And do you feel like those—I just want to get back to those technological advances in the museums and representation. Do you see any cons that come along with it or thus far? Because I’ve only really seen the pros to it, but I just want to make sure that I’m getting both—

	K:	I mean sometimes if it’s fun it can trivialize because it’s not a fun history. It’s not, but no I don’t. I think of it inspiring people and I think of people just opening their





eyes typically. But, you want to have something that people will be interested in working with and—No, I don’t see the cons. I really don’t. The trouble is to do it well, I guess. Have your history straight, but that goes with anything. The stuff that I’ve seen, particularly the one thing over at the VHS, I looked at it and people were waiting. People don’t wait in museums for anything. They just walk on by, “Oh we’ll come back to it.” Well no, they were waiting. They wanted their turn.

And you just never see it. People were really eager to participate and learn. It was great!

	F:	So, there definitely, I guess, with these advantages, bringing in more of a public interest.

	K:	I think so, and the other thing too is it related better I think to people. It’s a very expensive technology, at least with the one that I’m describing, but there’s a limitation as far as presenting an artifact with little bits of text. A lot of people will see it, but they won’t really take it in. If they participate, then they really get into it. That was one of the keys with Wisteria’s presentation. She didn’t do first person in her presentation, although she did wear period clothing, she was a tour guide essentially. I think that’s another way, another presentation, that’s very powerful is that interaction with someone talking to someone who clearly knows what they’re talking about. I guess that’s kind of—Well, we were talking about technology, but low-tech, but very effective. So, there are other ways.

	F:	And do you think that it perhaps is more appealing to children?



	K:	Well, I think that everyone’s different and technology does scare people over a certain age and I don’t know what that age is. But, typically they shy away from





pushing buttons and moving things and that kind of thing. But, that goes across the board at all museums at a certain point. The other thing too is that different generations prefer different levels of interaction. Typically, the older, the far more passive museum experience is what they’ve grown up with, and that’s fine for them. But, as we’re finding more and more and more, interaction is key for getting people excited about what is going on.

	F:	And then I wanted to ask, when it comes to just women in general during the Civil War is there just a lack of information when it comes to women in general?

	K:	Well, I think that there’s a lot of ground to be covered there and I think there’s a lot to be learned. And I think that—Well, I spoke to the guy who did the exhibit over at the VHS, Andy Talkov, he’s a friend of mine, and one of the people who went on his panel was this older scholar, very well-known guy. And his whole thing is, “They want to see battle flags, and guns, and this and that, and everything else is”—It just wasn’t of value to him. That’s what he wanted and what he expected in a Civil War exhibit, but that’s not the case anymore It was fifty years ago at the centennial. That’s what they did. They ignored just about anything that didn’t happen on a battle field. And, in the last fifty years—in the last twenty years in particular—it’s like, okay. [Laughter] You have Civil War North and South you’ve got about thirty-three million people, and three million of those served in uniform so we’re going ignore the other thirty million? No, no.

There are a lot of voices and a lot of stories and—As I kind of describe it there’s so many books on Lee or Lincoln or on Gettysburg or whatever. There’s not a lot of new ground being done on any of that because it’s all been done to death.





They go for the minutiae, they go for a little bit of shed a little light on some small, small, thing. But, as far as women’s history, African American women in the Civil War in particular, well, there’s ground to be covered. The real—Yes, I think that if I were a young scholar of history that’s where I would look. Certainly on the homefront. All of that. And Wisteria could speak more on that point as well.

	F:	I’m definitely excited to get in contact with her—



	K:	Oh, sure. Sure. That’s not a problem at all. I would’ve mentioned her the other day, but I didn’t want to promise anything. [Laughter] Well, no, so I talked to her.

	F:	Thank you.



	K:	Yeah.



	F:	I wanted to, on that note, how somehow the theater, like in the interactions, the technology definitely has changed when it comes to museum exhibits like within the last fifty years. Do you think it’s also the questions that people are asking are now different as well?

	K:	Sure, sure. I think that people are getting more sophisticated about this kind of stuff and they’re not—when I was a kid, I was six years old at the bicentennial and, I don’t know. It was George Washington and a cherry tree and now the study of the everyday person is way more intriguing and also studied. History as an institution, the study of history is growing up to include a lot more stories than just the great man of history, the great men, people on Mount Rushmore, whatever. It’s like, yes, their stories are interesting, but we’re ignoring the lives of millions and millions and millions of people by just focusing on twenty men or whatever it would be. You know what I mean? As far as the names we know.





And I think museums are doing the same thing. When I worked at Pamplin Historical Park, for example, their focus on the Civil War was of the common solider. So, anything—not the officers, not the generals, but the everyday life of the solider. And that wouldn’t have been done twenty years ago, thirty years ago. It was relatively new and our focus here is we try to tell it from the side of the North, South, and also African Americans. And that again was fairly new when we opened five years ago.

	F:	Definitely. I think actually it’s still pretty—



	K:	[Laughter] Well, I was so excited with the VHS exhibit, I’ve mentioned it so many times, but they devoted half of the show to the homefront and we devote maybe a tenth of our exhibit to it. And really, it should be fifty-fifty. But, that’s again—I don’t know that that’s what the public wants. So oftentimes we get the old guy who wants to see the guns and the flags. So, I—I don’t know. You try to find a balance as far as your displays and what your public wants and what you want to tell. So, yeah, I understand a lot of places are pretty much just going with the old school guns, flags, uniforms. And everything else, you know, oh, well, yeah, I’m sure that happened, but we’re just focusing on the battles. Well, you’re missing a lot.

	F:	How do you—I guess from a personal standpoint—how do you feel that these additions to this narrative to the history of the Civil War, having the additions of these new voices and these new stories, how do you think that’s shaping American history or American identity?





	K:	Well, I don’t know that it shapes it, but I think it includes a lot more people. A lot of people, their story might not be in the Civil War as far as if you just strictly talk about battles. Well, my family wasn’t here. My family was in Europe. But, there’s a legacy to the Civil War and that did effect my family. They came in the twentieth century so I think once you start opening up past a few generals and a few politicians a lot more people will see the story of their family, the story of their lives. How the events affected them and their story. There will always be the people who are focused strictly on the battles. But, I think by opening it up to more than that, like I said, I guess I’ve used this expression before, it seems like the study of history is just growing up, it’s just advancing. We’re learning more and it’s just growing up. Like I say, a lot of people don’t feel connected to the Civil War. Maybe this might open their eyes too. Just like I said about that one interactive at the VHS where people were just sitting waiting to do it. That was just wonderful to see. As far as people participating. So, I don’t know. It’s a long story, but—What was the original question I just kind of went off on a tangent.

	F:	I enjoyed the tangent, but it was just about how the inclusion of these new voices kind of shape American history—

	K:	Well, shape American history, but I think—well, shape American history . . . It’s on a personal level and people take from it what they will. So, oftentimes people don’t care, and I think once they find a little bit of a nugget that maybe they didn’t expect, every now and then you’ll catch people. Yeah, I think museums can have a real function as far as inspiring people to learn more about the past. It’s not just documentaries and it’s not just books. Museums do have a role in that. Now





when I was a kid, they inspired me. They didn’t do much for my classmates and I don’t know what the ratio is, but it worked for me and I know it’s worked for other people too. Sounds like you as well.

	F:	Definitely, for me. Like I said, when it came to learning about American history, my first introduction—You have the textbooks and you have the classes where it’s kind of drowned and kind of gnawed into you—But walking through those museums it really—that’s when it came to life for me when you had those displays sitting in front of you. You had actual objects that you were able to see. That’s what really grasped my attention and then when I was up in Cincinnati, that experience and having it be this kind of interaction with—It’s almost as if it’s an interaction with history. That’s what really blew my mind because I was just like, “This is amazing,” how kids these days can learn about their history. It fascinated me.

	K:	Me as well. Do you have another question?



	F:	My final question was mainly on the feedback that you have received based on the various exhibits, you know, “In the Cause of Liberty?”

	K:	Sure. Well, “In the Cause of Liberty,” it’s mixed, plenty of positive and some negative. If we focus on the negative, typically, people, like I said, we have three beats. We talk about the story of the North, South, and African Americans. From their perspectives, how they saw the war. Typically, our museum visitor only cares about one of the three, or two out of the three, maybe. They kind of feel picked on if the ratio inside the exhibit isn’t quite to their liking. Typically they come in and they just kind of—“Ooh, I don’t know.” [Laughter] If it’s a positive





person coming into the exhibit and they’re excited to be here and they’re excited about it, usually they like it. If they come in and they already feel like their side is either vilified or unrepresented or they’re in a bad mood or that kind of thing. We do have a feedback thing where we have little post-it notes and we put it on the wall and ask them to relay their stories or their thoughts on the exhibit, but their stories as far as their connection to the war or where they’re from. We do talk about slavery as far as what if the confederacy didn’t lose, what would have happened and things like that. People speculate and they share, but once we talk about the museum itself, it’s a mix. Because we do challenge people on points.

We have the basic philosophy that slavery was the root cause of the Civil War and there’s a certain part of Civil War enthusiasts who reject that notion. So that’s a real point of contention, but it’s our basic—I mean, our basic statement is, if it weren’t for slavery there would be no war. We talk about state’s rights, what state right? What are talking about? Oh, it’s slavery. Oh, yeah, well then you can couch it in any different terms or any different subject, but it always points back to it. So, we put that out early in the exhibit and for people who won’t accept that or don’t accept that viewpoint, I think it poisons their museum experience because the rest of the tour they’ve already got kind of a negative— Well, [Laughter] they’re stating something I don’t believe. And, so they kind of get—I’ll put it in the certain—They have a negative mindset after the video if they really don’t agree with it. But, that’s our philosophy on it and we put it early in the exhibit to get it out of the way and it’s a surprise that so many people don’t see it that way.





	F:	Uh-huh.



	K:	Even now, even after everything. F:	Yeah.

	K:	So, the reception of the exhibit is mixed. Mostly positive. Some people call it too PC. Other people call it—I don’t know. It’s very tough to please everyone.

	F:	Yeah, it’s also very difficult even displaying a part of history that’s so controversial in many ways.

	K:	Even now, even now it is. It really is.



	F:	So, we can definitely understand that it would be quite difficult to please both sides.

	K:	And people get all upset, “My great-grand—.” Okay, all right. [Laughter] At any rate, but that’s what I have. Is there anything else?

	F:	No, that was my final question. K:	Great! Okay.

	F:	Thank you so much. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Lisa Mueller



		Audit-edited by:	Jeffrey Hartmann, November 29, 2017 Final edit by:		Ryan Morini, February 20, 2019