AHHP 103; Monroe; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 103 William Monroe African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on August 20, 2010 3 minutes | 3 pages



Abstract: William Monroe describes the personal significance of Jerkins High School, which he attended while growing up in Perry, Florida.





Keywords: [African American History; Taylor County, Florida; Jerkins High School]































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 103

Interviewee: William Monroe Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: August 20, 2010



	W:	This is Marna Weston with Sam Proctor Oral History Program on August 20, 2010 speaking with Mr. Monroe at the Jerkins High School Reunion and dedication of a historic marker of Jerkins High School. Mr. Monroe, thank you for taking the time to speak with me for a moment.

	M:	All righty.



	W:	Now, Mr. Monroe, can you tell me your full name? M:	I’m Williams Monroe.

	W:	Do you have a middle name, sir? M:	No middle name.

	W:	No middle name?



	M:	No.



	W:	When were you born Mr. Monroe? M:	December 31, 1933

	W:	A New Year’s Eve baby. M:	Yes.

	W:	Where were you born Mr. Monroe? M:	In Perry.

	W:	Right here in Taylor County?



	M:	Right in Taylor County on US 19. [Laughter] W:	Can you tell me the location?

	M:	Yeah. Right in front of New Brooklyn Church.



	W:	Okay. Great. So, do you know Christine Baines Holmes?





	M:	Yes.



	W:	She lives right across the street. M:	Right.

	W:	Okay. Terrific. Why are you here today at this Jerkins celebration?



M:  I’m here because Jerkins has some rich history and we would like for our history to be passed on and this is one way that we pass it on.

W:  When you say pass on history—? M:  Pass it on to the next generation. W:  Who is that generation?

M:  The younger ones. I would say much younger than me. [Laughter] Yes, it would the next generation.

W:  What year did you graduate form Jerkins High School? M:  1952.

	W:	Okay. What was big in 1952? You said that with a lot of pride.



	M:	Well, we was the second class to graduate when they built the school building- when they built this new building. We had been going to school in the halls.

Actually, my classroom was a place we used to gamble at. That building is still there, but the little other building is torn down. It’s on US 19. We went from churches to churches and building to building.

	W:	What is it that is special about Jerkins High School to you?



	M:	Well, I think it’s a pillar of the community. It’s a pillar of the community. W:	Is this gentleman waiting to speak to you?

M:   Yes.





	W:	All right. I’ll give you a moment. M:	Okay.

[End of Interview]





	Audit-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, September 5, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 18, 2019