AAHP 065; Branton; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 065 Isaiah Branton

African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Sherry Dupree and Garlenda Greene Grant on April 1, 2006

No available audio | 17 pages



Abstract: Isaiah Branton grew up in Otter Creek, Florida, and is a US Marine Corps veteran. He shares some of his family history, including his father’s pastoring history, and also the oral history passed down to him regarding some of his enslaved ancestors, who were brought by the plantation owner from South Carolina down to Alachua County, Florida. He relates a complex and detailed history of the enslaved people of Alachua County and the family histories before and after Emancipation. He explains how much of this history was passed down to him from his grandmother.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Levy County, Florida; Slavery]











































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 065

Interviewee: Isaiah Branton

Interviewer: Sherry Dupree and Garlenda Greene Grant Date: April 1, 2006



	D:	What is your name? B:	Isaiah Branton

	D:	Your age?



	B:	Fifty-two years old, born July 25th, 1953. D:	Where did you attend school?

	B:	I attended Levy County and Marion County Schools, and successfully completed high school.

	D:	After you finished, you went to college. Where and what area?



	B:	After entering the military, I went to Central Florida Community College and completed certificates in air conditioning and electrical. I proceeded to complete a degree in sociology; however, I was unable to complete this task due to military injuries.

	D:	Where were you born?



	B:	A little town called Gulf Hammock, Florida, on the Gulf of Mexico. D:	Highway 19/98?

	B:	That’s right.



	D:	Your parents’ names?



	B:	My parents were Reverend Jackson Branton and Marrietta Wooden Branton. D:	How many in your immediate family?

	B:	Twelve children in my family; however one died at birth, and another at six months old due to infant complications.

	D:	What were their names?





	B:	Jack Branton Jr., George Branton, Elijah Branton, David Branton, Isaiah Branton, Charles Branton, Elouise Branton Starling, Henrietta Branton-Thomas, Martha Branton-Ramp, and Rachael Branton-Madison.

	D:	How many girls and boys? B:	Four girls and six boys

	D:	What was the size of your land?



	B:	We lived on a farm planting and working on the farm daily, raising hogs, dairy cows, and goats.

	D:	It gave you a lot of strength.



	B:	It gave me a good work ethic. Educational-wise I completed engineering courses in the Marines, ranking as a noncommissioned officer, and was a state security officer. I also completed courses for the government in material management.

	D:	So you are retired?



	B:	Retired from the Veteran Administration Hospital in Gainesville. D:	When did you retire?

	B:	I retired in 1995.



	D:	Oh, you are recent. So, you retired ten or eleven years ago. B:	Ten years.

	D:	When you combined your military years you had thirty years. B:	Enough years to retire.

	D:	You retired for twenty years. That’s wonderful. All right, the names and ages of your sisters and brothers; we will come back to that.

	B:	Five living and five deceased as of April 15, 2006.





	D:	What crops did your father grow?



	B:	He grew every crop that he could grow during each season. D:	What church?

	B:	He was the pastor of a church affiliated with the Missionary Baptist Church. He was a member of the New and Old Jerusalem Association.

	B:	He started preaching in 1930 at the age of twenty-one. D:	Where did he start his preaching?

	B:	He started his preaching in Chiefland, Otter Creek and Gulf Hammock; then he went to Perry, Cross City, Newberry, Trenton, Gainesville, and Ocala; then to Valdosta, Georgia, Saint Augustine, and Hastings. Once a year, he would travel to his hometown of Tallahassee to preach. The final church he pastored was Saint John’s Missionary Baptist in Bronson, Florida in 1969. He also died the same year. Before his death he was appointed by the New Jerusalem Association to be a moderator. Then he was positioned in St. Augustine and Jacksonville during the time that Martin Luther King Jr. came to St. Augustine to help protest on behalf of the sanitation workers. My father began pastoring at the Missionary Baptist Church in St. Augustine.

	D:	Okay, he was pastoring in St. Augustine! B:	Yes.

	D:	That was the last church?



	B:	No, the last church was in Bronson: St. John’s Missionary Baptist Church. D:	Now, was your mother a housewife?

	B:	Yes, and she also was a pianist and made quilts.







D:

Oh, she was a piano teacher.

B:

Yes, she taught my brother Charles, who is a great musician.

D:

All right, what organizations do you belong to?

B:

The NAACP, the American Legion, and a member of the pastoral care team at



the Church of God by Faith.

D:

All right. Are you a Mason?

B:

No, I am not a Mason.

D:

None of the Masonic!

B:

No, I am a retired from the government

D:

You were a Marine, we must be careful with you for sure!

B:

Yes.

D:

I hear you!

B:

I was raised that nothing was too hard for God!

D:

What fascinates you to live here in Starke, Florida?

B:

I got married and decided to live in Starke

D:

All right, I love that! And that is your youngest son?

B:

Yes, that is Isaiah!

D:

I will come back and get more information on your family. Uh, how many family



members live in this area?

B:

None. Some in Jacksonville, my mother’s sister; the rest of them live in Virginia,



Tampa, Ocala, Florida, Dunnellon, Florida, and Baltimore, Maryland.

D:

What is your occupation—since you are retired?

B:

I am an associate minister in the Church of God by Faith in Starke.





	D:	So you are under Bishop McKnight?



	B:	Yes, but my pastor is Elder James McKnight Jr. D:	The Church of God by Faith where?

	B:	Starke.



	D:	Is that a new church? B:	No, it was built in 1996.

	D:	How many family members worked on the Dudley property?



	B:	Susie Kendrick and Eliza Chisholm Kendrick. She was a slave of Edward Lewis of Chester, South Carolina. Then they sold her to the Stringfellows, and the Stringfellows sold her to the Dudleys. When the Stringfellows sold her, the receipt said “Elizabeth and the mulatto child.” Her dad was named Ned Chisholm from South Carolina, and they lived in Chester, South Carolina. During the

time Ned lived in Chester while building the Liberty Hill School, the slave rewarded him for his great work on building the school by allowing him to have Caroline and they beared children. One of the children was Eliza. Eliza was born on the Lewis Plantation and one of the slave owners in the Lewis family married a Chisholm. Ned Chisholm is my great, great, great, great grandfather.

	D:	Wait, now; she was a Chisholm. Okay.





	B:	She was on the Lewis Plantation. Then when she was out of slavery, she went back to her original name, which was Chisholm. She had to work on the farm in Gainesville while all the Chisholm men in Florida went back to South Carolina to get the ex-slaves that were related to them. They traveled from plantation to





plantation gathering as many as possible. The women took care of the work at the home place while they were gone. The men—Ned, Dudley, William, and others—brought other relative ex-slaves back to Gainesville. They brought Butler Chisholm, the son of Ned, and lots of men back to Gainesville to work on our property to grow Sea Island cotton to pay back the loan on the six hundred eighty-seven acres. My grandmother said that my great, great grandmother

Susie and the others stayed on the Chisholm’s home place in East Gainesville on the farm in Copeland; the property ran into Newnan’s Lake. They kept the farm work going until the men came back. They kept the cows and gardens functioning. They had their own brands for the cows.

	D:	About what year was this? B:	It was 1867.

	D:	Ok, that was right after the freeing of the slaves. So that was the time of the Freedmen’s Bureau.

	B:	Yes.



	D:	As soon as they got free, they went back to Chester, South Carolina.



	B:	That’s right! Then they brought back ex-slaves, Butler and other family to help with the Sea Island cotton.

	D:	Who else came?



	B:	It was Butler and some other family members



	D:	They did not come back until after slavery! They came to help with the Sea Island cotton. They needed the ones who knew about the Sea Island cotton.

	D:	What was per curia about the Sea Island cotton?





	B:	The boll weevil. You had to know how to keep those boll weevils out of that cotton crop. You had to know what you were doing. If not you would have a rough crop. Some people didn’t know how to pluck cotton. They had to know how to hold the stem. But my grandmother said, they went back and got men who were knowledgeable about this. They stayed for six months. Because they had to look for family members who were scattered and had been sold from one plantation to another it took about six months to complete the task and return back home.

	D:	It took that long? Why so long?



	B:	They had to travel from one plantation to another and round everybody up and bring them back. Grandmother said they left Chester, and they went down to places where they had been sold off. They were released like wild animals. We did not have any place to go; we just wandered. They looked for the ones that they knew. Some of them, we never found.

	D:	They went to Chester, South Carolina? And where else did they go?



	B:	They went to surrounding areas, plantations. Grandmomma said they could not wait until those men came back.

	D:	I can understand that!



	B:	These women kept things going. Eliza kept things going. [Shows a picture.] Grandmother said that she and my great, great grandmother Susie talked about Eliza living on William Chisholm’s place, which is now Morningside Park. She lived there and died in the house there.

	D:	Why did they want to tell a story?





B:  This is what they do. [Shows a picture.] Grandmother said they took a picture by the windmill at Dudley with the ladies. When she got older, she picked up a little weight.

	D:	She was born in Chester, South Carolina and she came down here with the Lewis?

	B:	Yes, the Stringfellows, Lewis, and the Dudleys, and several other families came here together. They all came together.

	D:	This opens up a new door.



	B:	They all had a wagon train. The Indians attacked them three times. And then one of the Chisholm men joined the Indians. He got out of slavery. They told him to go out and scout. He joined the Indians and never came back.

	D:	So now he joined the Indians. Let me get this straight: the Lewis family, the Dudleys, the Stringfellows all came together.

	B:	The scout’s name was Clayborn Kendrick. Scouts would go ahead of everyone else and look out for Indians or any sign of danger. He was a great horseman.

	D:	And the scout was Clayborn Kendrick.



	B:	That was my great, great, great granddaddy.



	D:	So the scout was Clayborn Kendrick, and he went on with the Indians.





	B:	No, Major Chisholm was also a scout, and he went on with the Indians. D:	All of these people came out of South Carolina in the same general area?

	B:	They caught the ferry out of Charleston. They would fill the boat with wagons and then people, take them across, and come back and get more until they brought





the whole wagon train. They came up through Charleston and on up into Savannah. When they got into Savannah the masters sold some of the slaves at the auction. Then they went to St. Simons Island. They stayed there for a little while. Then they auctioned off some of the slaves. Then to Fort Caroline, which is in the Jacksonville area. They sold slaves to the Plank Plantation. They stayed at the Kingsley Plantation for a year or two.

	D:	From the Kingsley Plantation, how did they get them to Fleming Island Plantation?

	B:	They stopped at Kingsley Lake for a little while. That is six miles from Starke.



Then the Stringfellows went to Fort Clarke. The Dudleys went to Archer. And the Lewises went to Windsor. Another family, the Hall family, they went out to Melrose and Orange Heights. And they some went to a place called Hampton some of the Hampton. Some went to Hatch Creek; the Hatches were with them too. People don’t know that Hatch Creek farm was a plantation, too. I am going by what the old lady said. The Chestnuts and Hailes went to Arredondo.

	D:	You have history here that we don’t have. And this is really giving us—. Did they ever go on the Alachua Trail?

	B:	Yes. [Laughter] Grandmomma talked about that a lot. That was a way to Gainesville at one time.

	D:	Newnansville



	B:	But believe it or not, they had three trails around here. The trail from Hawthorne went into Gainesville. That was the main trail. They traveled in buggies.





Grandmomma said when the buggy came, one would have to move to the side. The trail was very narrow.

	D:	Yes. There were fights on that trail several times. The Indians were on both sides of the trail. The other family name was Mizell.

	B:	Yes I have heard of Mizell. Matter of fact my grandmother was with those people. D:	They went on down to Orlando and Sanford, into those areas.

	B:	This is the family reunion book. [Shows pictures.]



D:  My God, you all were huge! See the McCrays on here. The Welches, Prestons, Robersons, Alexanders; this is outstanding. All of these families came from the Chisholms.

B:   I know about the whole thing.



	D:	The Chisholms were well known, and I think this gave them a since of place. B:	Old pictures, of a hundred years old.

D:   Oh, look at this: Union Academy in Gainesville.



	B:	Great Grandmother Lizzy Caldwell graduated from Union Academy; that’s her diploma in her hand.

	D:	One thing I want to go back to: you mentioned Alachua Trail, the Half Moon Trail, and there was a third one wasn’t it?

	B:	The Half Moon Trail went from Half Moon to Micanopy; they transported slaves that way. The half Moon trail is right there on 441. Then you have one that was from Haile Plantation to Louise, which is Freedom Town. Great-great- grandmother Susie had to have a pass; then you could go where you wanted to





go. She and her sister had to have a pass. You had to have a pass after slavery to go places.

	D:	Well, Freedom Town was Louise, outside of Waldo. B:	They called it East of Eden.

	D:	Yes, I have seen that!



B:   Okay, that was known as Freedom Town and you still had to get a pass, yes, to go various places, to catch the train or go different places.

	D:	And the pass was written by?



B:  Who you were working for out there. D:  The plantation owner?

B:  Yes, there was a store like a turpentine commissary. You could go by the store and trade. That’s how Susie got married. And they would write you a pass and then you could travel.

	D:	Who would write the pass, the slave owner who you worked for? So if you worked for the Dudleys, they would have to write the pass? If you worked for the Stringfellows, they would write the pass?

	B:	Yes, we should have a pass that the Dudleys wrote for Susie. Stayed with a lady named Elizabeth and her mulatto child. [Shows picture.] This is my great great grandmother Susie. This was taken in 1875.

	D:	Oh my God, you have this fixed; it is so pretty. I am going to turn this around.



This is your grandmother Susie?





	B:	This is my great-great-grandmother. I think she was born a slave right here in Gainesville in 1856. I don’t believe she was born in South Carolina. South Carolina was on her death certificate.

	D:	Whose plantation was Susie on?



B:  She was on the Dudleys and Stringfellows. Susie died in 1948. My grandmother died thirteen years ago. So Susie said the Dudleys were mean; she would cook, and one of the guys came in to touch her. She beat him down with a frying pan. And they got rid of her.

D:   Susie had to go! I understand that!



	B:	And then Eliza had to go from the Stringfellows, too, and they did the same thing. D:	Susie, what last name did she go under?

	B:	Okay. Her daddy was Clayborn Kendrick, her mother’s name was Eliza Chisholm, her sister was Louise Kendrick Watts, and her other sister was Lula Kendrick Chestnut—she married Lawrence Chestnut. Then the next sister’s Kitty Kendrick; she married John McCray. Then the next one was Fannie Williams.

She got with William, and she married William Duvall. Then she had James Williams who married Polly Williams.

	B:	I know all the people.



	D:	This has been wonderful, the family members. Do you know of others who worked on the Dudley property?

	B:	Grandmomma said, The Dennis, Longs, Cookes, Hunts, the Webbs, the Cobbs, and there is a nursery out there right across from the Dudleys. They use to sell





plants, and they worked at the nursery. That is where Susie worked, at the nursery.

	D:	We have interviewed Mr. Kermit Clark, Mr. Ladis Ross, and Mr. McCray.



	B:	We are kin to the McCray. In fact, Kitty married John McCray. We use to be at their house all the time. That was back in the 1960s. There are a lot of families in the area of Gainesville, Starke, and Waldo. We are currently trying to help the relatives of the Chisholms further connect [their] genealogy line. My great uncle is buried out there with a brick grave; one of the Cobb men fixed up a little grave. He was hung at Lynch Hammock in 1902. The grave is at the old church in Half Moon.

	D:	This person was—?



	B:	That was Manny’s grave; that was fixed up with no name on it, but Grandmother and Great Grandmother were there when they hung him. Grandmother was ten years old.

	D:	He is buried where? Half Moon Cemetery? What is the name of the church? B:	He is buried at Half Moon cemetery. I know Reverend Hunt is the pastor.

	D:	Are you talking about Walter Hunt? Walter Hunt is the pastor of a church in Half Moon. I think he works with that church. Okay.

	B:	When you go through there, if a car is coming you have to turn back around; you can’t meet a car in the alleyway.

	D:	Okay! So Manny’s grave is in Half Moon, and this is a Baptist church. B:	Yes, that is right. They had his funeral there and they buried him there. D:	He was hung.





	B:	Yes, in 1902. He and Suggs were hung. What was the guy’s first name? G:	Robert Suggs.

	B:	Yes!



	G:	Manny Price, September 1902.



	B:	They were hung the same day. How do I know all of that? D:	What was the reason for those two—?

	B:	Watermelon. I don't want to get too deep into this stuff, now! My grandmother and I had to cry about all of those hangings.

	D:	All right, can you think of other people who worked on the farm? B:	Okay, there were the Williams.

	D:	Oh yes, we did see some Williams, the Browns. B:	Yes, the Waits, don’t forget about the Millers.

	G:	The Powers, was that the elder person for the Millers?



	B:	Henrietta was the elder, Henrietta Miller. I have her brother, Herman Miller’s diploma. It is 100 years old.

	G:	Are they related to the Millers out in Raleigh?



	B:	I think they are, out there. Henrietta’s daughter Delilah married Thomas Chisholm. Which, I have his picture.

	D:	We are changing our questions somewhat. How many family members worked in Alachua County?

	B:	All except my mother. D:	She was a pastor’s wife.

	B:	She taught piano lessons.





	D:	She worked with kids all over the place



	B:	She worked at the house as a housewife and played the piano for the church. D:	How do you deal with sensitive issues such as race?

	B:	Race, I deal with race. It is not a sensitive issue with me because I know who I am. I know I am somebody, and I know I am not racist; I know the word of God. He gave his only begotten son. I know God. I was taught from a young man how to keep my head focused and my mind off not getting into the slave mentality of the Willie Lynch syndrome. My grandmother told me about Willie Lynch.

	D:	Oh she did, okay!



	B:	Never get involved with the Willie Lynch syndrome. Willie Lynch taught the slave master how to put one against the other. Some of the people were light skin and some dark skin. My grandmother was mulatto; Grandmother taught me that all during slavery, those who did not know themselves—the slaves would heal themselves through natural means. They would go outside to the canker tree; there are a lot of healing devices in the canker tree. They would take a lot

of whippings from the master and the plantation master would come and say, “I whipped this slave, and how did he get well so quick?” Really slavery started with Willie Lynch.

	D:	That is right.



	B:	Lynch was a merchant seaman where he came back and forth from the Islands, the West Indies, and so what the slaves were indigent. The slaves were working over here in the field but not under hard taskmasters. So Willie Lynch decided that cargo from West Africa would bring his business up. He went





around on a crusade and used the Bible. Using scriptures out of the Bible, he increased the number of plantations. He taught that you could take them and use them as a commodity. You have to dehumanize them.

	D:	That is right.



	B:	You have to break their will. You have to introduce the whip, then the rope; this is my grandmother talking, now. He put the grease on the rope and it would not catch, he taught them all of that. Then he taught them how to use whip with metal on the end. Okay, like tails or something. Then he went around Virginia and all around the South. Then he told them to teach their children to dehumanize us.

Start us as when they brought us off the slave ships to feed us in a trough with partridge or wheat or some kind of substance. All had to eat out of the same trough. She said some of the Africans refused to do so, and some of the people died. In the middle passage before the ship came, some people would fast, some would be dehydrated. This is my grandmother talking, now.

Grandmother explained that her great, great, great grandmother was born in the 1700s in Africa.

	B:	This is a picture of my grandmother Dilly B. Wooden. She told me everything.



	D:	And this is how our tradition has continued. If it had not been for the oral history we would not have a history here.

	B:	Rose was born in 1811. Rosaline, Adeline and Caroline. They were sisters, and when they were sold they kept the line so they knew they were blood.

[End of interview]





	Edited by:	Ryan Morini, August 1, 2017 (no audio available) Final edit by: Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019