AAHP 607; Wells; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 607 Lovie Wells Jr 6-8-2018 Interviewed by Julian Valdivia on June 8, 2018

69 minutes | 35 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Fort Meyers native Lovie Wells, Jr recalls his life for interviewer Julian Valdivia. Born in Fort Meyers in 1952, Wells was the child of two teachers and the oldest of four siblings. Prior to his teaching career, Wells’ father enlisted in the Army and became a master sergeant trained in guided missiles.

However, a desire to be close with his family led him to return to Fort Meyers as a teacher. Both of Wells’ parents were first generation college students, leading them to emphasize the importance of education to their children. Wells’ class was moved from the Dunbar School to Fort Meyers High School during his senior year as a part of integration efforts. He attended college, earning a degree in political science at Dillard University. After finishing his education, he began working for the local government, where he remain for nearly two decades. During that time, he married his wife and they started a family together. Then, he moved to Louisiana, where he worked for the state government for almost three years. Then, he returned to Florida, working in the state government for two years before transferring to the county government, where he spent thirteen years. Later, he followed in his parents’ footsteps, working for the local school district for nineteen years. He also went back to school well into his professional life to obtain a master’s degree from the University of South Florida.



Keywords: [Fort Meyers, Lee County, Florida, Black community, family history, education, teacher, educator, military, Dillard University, University of South Florida]



AAHP 607

Interviewee: Lovie Wells Jr Interviewer: Julian Valdivia Date of Interview: June 8, 2018



V:  This is Julian Valdivia with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. I’m sitting here today in the Roberto Clemente Park at the Lee County Black History Society, and today I’ll be interviewing—

W:   Lovie Wells Jr.



V:  All right. Well, thank you Mr. Wells for being here today. W:  Okay.

	V:	The first thing I want to ask is when and where were you born?



W:   I was born in Fort Meyers, Florida. When and where? When, it was in 1952.



November the tenth, 1952.



	V:	Okay, so look at that date then. Hold on, I’m trying to do the math in my head.



Remember I’m a history major, not a math major.



W:   Sixty-five years ago.



V:  Yeah. When you were graduating, were you in Dunbar High School when they closed it?

W:  I went. The year Dunbar High School was closed was the year my senior class was dispersed among the three other high schools here. I ended up graduating from Fort Meyers Senior High School.

V:   Oh, okay.



	W:	There was North Fort Meyers and Cypress Lane, so all of the students that attended Dunbar were basically divvied up between those three schools.

	V:	Yeah, okay, but I’m getting ahead of myself. I just saw that, and I’m like, “Oh okay, that’s cool.” Most people I’ve interviewed so far have been born in the







thirties or the forties so they weren’t part of that graduating class, and I was like, “Oh, wow.”

	W:	Okay. [Laughter]



	V:	But it will be cool. I’ll have questions. First I just want to ask you about your early life growing up. Who were your parents and how many siblings did you have?

	W:	I have two brothers and one sister. V:	Okay.

	W:	And myself and my sister are—I’m the oldest of four. My sister is two years younger than I am. My parents were teachers.

	V:	Okay.



	W:	My dad was a teacher here in Lee County from 1960 to when he retired in 1994.



My mother was also a teacher in Lee County, and she retired as a school psychologist in 1994. So I’m a TK: I’m a teacher’s kid. [Laughter]

	V:	I’m kind of getting ahead in the interview, but were your parents kind of the inspiration for you to become a teacher later on.

	W:	Well actually, I ended up becoming a teacher, but when I matriculated through college, that was the last thing I wanted to do. Teach school. Because I got my degree in Political Science. At which time I was thinking about going to law school, but I ended up getting married so I had to think about going to work. I ended up going to work. I worked in State local government for—oh gosh— probably nineteen years. I worked for the state of Louisiana for two and a half years and then I moved back home to Fort Meyers, Florida, and I worked for the state of Florida for two and a half years. And then I worked for the county for







thirteen years, and I spent the last of my years in academia working for the school district. I put in nineteen years; I was only going to do fifteen. They convinced me to stay an extra five. They couldn’t convince me to stay anymore though. [Laughter]. So I’ve been rather varied career.

	V:	Yeah. Okay. So then I want to ask some more about you growing up. Fort Meyers at the time obviously was segregated along the train tracks and things like that. How did your parents explain segregation to you as a child?

	W:	Well actually, growing up in segregation no one had to really explain it. It just was. It was interesting because being a child from parents who were teachers, obviously, I’m considered one of the more fortunate ones. Because the teachers, when you look in the Black community, were held in much higher esteem probably than today because often times, if you were educated Black, you either taught, either was a funeral home director, or you’re a preacher. Okay? [Laughter]. The reason I say that is my dad was in the service, and when he came out of the service in 1960, he was trained in guided missiles. Now needless to say, he did not know he was on the cutting edge of a new science. Because of the color line, he could not get a job at Cape Canaveral.

	V:	Oh, whoa.



	W:	Even though he was a master sergeant trained in guided missiles by the U.S. Army, he couldn’t really get a job in his field. He decided he did not want a career in the military—because of course, he would’ve had a stellar career because he’s just a brilliant guy. He decided to teach as opposed to go to medical because his mother was a midwife in this community. As a result of that, growing up, I had a







pretty—I won’t say sheltered life—but I had a good time. I was just a kid. I remember playing with the neighborhood kids, going to school. Back then, if you had a little fist to cuff, you had it, boom, it was over with. Next day you’re playing with the same people because it was a small community. I think Lee County back then had fifty-thousand people, if that many.

	V:	Sounds about right.



	W:	Yeah. And my grandmother being a midwife, delivered most of the children here.



Matter of fact, she’s in the Hall of Fame for Black family—Black females in Florida ‘cause one year she delivered they said five-thousand babies.

	V:	Oh whoa.



	W:	Yeah, she’s a workaholic. I always joke. I tell people, “If she got paid for half of them, I never would’ve had to work a day in my life.” [Laughter]. But back in the day, delivery fifty bucks or something like, which was nice money, but a lot of times, she was just a kind hearted person. If you needed help, she’d give you help. My dad and my mom were both first generation college graduates.

	V:	Oh whoa. Okay.



	W:	Yes, from both of their families. They went to a private high school—it’s called Fessenden—in central Florida. And from Fessenden they went to Dillard University, which is a premier school in New Orleans. And decided to come back to Florida. So, you know, as a kid, hey. I had typical kid spank now. One thing I know about segregation, I’ll say. It was unusual to see Whites in the neighborhood. My grandmother actually ran a nursery, and the only Whites I remember seeing in that neighborhood were the insurance people or the guy







who would bring the cookies around to serve as her nursery then. I mean, but you didn’t see other Whites. If you went downtown, you saw, but if you came in Dunbar, no Whites out here. You go to school, no Whites in my school because I went to Dunbar High School which was segregated. All Black teachers, all Black students. Matter of fact, when integration did occur my senior year, it was like us meeting a whole group of folks we ain’t know existed. I mean, people say, “Well, why don’t you go to your senior class?” I say, “Well, you need to understand we really don’t know each other.” I was an athlete so I was considered one of the popular people, but the bottom line is I didn’t know the other people. I grew up with other people here from elementary school, but the other people I didn’t know. So I don’t pay much attention to high school reunions at the high school I graduated from. I think really looking at my career, being able to teach at the high school I spent most of my time at was a crowning glory for me. I really enjoy every moment out there.

	V:	That’s good to hear. [Laughter] W:	Yeah, I really did. I went full circle.

	V:	Since you were in school at the time because I want to ask about your experience in school. I’ve been reading a lot of old News-Press papers and saw in 1964 that the Lee County school board came up with a desegregation plan, but they said it was never implemented. And I asked—do you know George Mayo?

	W:	Oh yeah.







	V:	I asked George Mayo about it, and he had said that the whole idea was integrating teaching staff at first.

	W:	Yes. They had something they called—what was it? They had this plan. It’s interesting because I did a paper on it, but some of it’s hazy. What I found was that following the 1954 Brown v. Education decisions, this county took until 1964 to do some kind of desegregation plan that basically said, “Look, if you wanted to go to a integrated school, we’ll start in the first grade and work out way up.” Each year we add another grade. And what ended up happening, I believe in 1968 or [19]69, people began to look at that plan and whether or not it was in fact integrating communities or integrating student populations and came to the conclusion that it wasn’t. And I don’t know what the precipitant force was, but Dunbar High School on Anderson Avenue was a brand new school when it was closed down, which financially makes absolutely no sense to me whatsoever.

	V:	Yeah, no. I’m with you. [Laughter]



	W:	You know, it made no sense. And what they did was in 1970 which was my graduating year, they basically took the student population at Dunbar High School and split it up amongst the junior high schools and high schools there because, keep in mind, back then there were no middle schools. Matter of fact, junior high school was grades seven through nine, I wanna say. And high school was tenth through twelfth. And elementary school was actually one through six. So what would happen is my sister, who was a freshman or sophomore I believe, ended up going to Fort Meyers Middle School. Well, and that’s called “middle school,” but it’s Fort Meyers Junior High School then. And I ended up going to







Fort Meyers High School for one year. Well, no, I actually went two years because I went the last year of what they call “freedom of choice.” And I went out of curiosity, really. In retrospect, I should’ve stayed at Dunbar High School until they closed it. I was talking to a classmate of mine the other day, and the classmate of mine was saying that he recalls, during that time, instructors telling us that we oughta probably go to summer school so we could finish early. Which would’ve meant we would’ve graduated from Dunbar High School and not have to deal with this whole transitional thing where they split the classes up. I told him I never really thought of that as an idea because back in the day, shoot, we were like most kids, man. When school was out, you didn’t have to make up no credits and stuff; you wanna relax. Now, now what we would do though is that we would get a part-time job somewhere during the summer time and then come back to school and finish out. That kind of thing. But it was a trying, traumatic time, really, for a lot of people. I think of myself as one who was gifted at that time, having parents who educators and really not having a difficult time at doing the study part. I was decent athlete, which meant, popularity wise, even though I was a teacher’s kid, I wasn’t disdained and nobody come up want to spit at me and stuff. But when we went to the White schools that was tough. That year was really tough because you ended up finding out that some of the instruction material that you had was second-rate. Some of the classes you were placed in people had previous educational experiences that you didn’t have so there’s a little bit of catch-up there. You found that, athletically speaking, you held your own. Bottom line is, I will say, that during that day, there wasn’t too many







basketball players that are gonna beat me. It just was. I mean, I was decent. [Laugher]. Okay? I was decent, but I still didn’t get the playing time that I would’ve gotten had I stayed at Dunbar High School.

	V:	And that’s why you regret taking the choice year?



	W:	In part, yes, because I ended up playing college ball for a year as a walk on at what’s called University of Central Florida now. But I really should’ve been recruited to play ball at a lot of other schools because I didn’t get the exposure. The reason I say that is because my senior year at Fort Meyers, we went undefeated. We were rated nine and ten in the state. And the word was that when we played Boca Ciega in the District finals in our own gym, the word was “do not play the Black kids.”—

	V:	Really?



	W:	And we lost. Yeah, and we lost. I mean, that’s the word. [Laughter]. V:	Yeah, okay so that’s just like—

	W:	You know, nobody will probably admit to that, but that’s one of the reasons we lost. Because we were slated that year to go at least to the Regionals finals because seven of our players played college ball off of that team. There was no team around here that could touch us because we had speed, we had a lot of things. But that night, in our own gymnasium with three Blacks who were integral part of that whole team not getting any playing time? Uh-uh. And we were losing. In our own gym. [Laughter]. And we were seniors.

	V:	Yeah.







	W:	Okay, now you know, I’ve spent time in academia. I was a golf coach. People say, “Well, why do the seniors get to play?” Well, maybe because they paid their dues. I mean, if you play for me for two or three years, and it’s your senior year, you’re gonna get some time. Simple. Even if you’re sorry, you’re still gonna get some time because people reward folks for putting some time in and being dependable to them. But that particular night, us seniors, we were on the short end of that. And I always regret that. I say yeah know this is interesting. But then again, I think about it. I didn’t get much bigger. I play one year of college ball. I figure, “Hey, these guys they’re putting on me, they’re huge.” They put a guy on me six-four, six-five. I’m six feet. Yeah, I could jump out of the gym, but I only weigh about a hundred and forty five pounds. No. It don’t work. [Laughter].

Okay? It just doesn’t work. Somebody could get hurt. But that’s my recollection. And going to the White school that year, there were a number of fights. I mean, you could pretty much predict a fight. If it was time to start vacation, somebody gonna have a fight. [Laughter]. You know? The athletes, I remember that year, what would happen is the coaches would gather all the athletes and put them in the gym while the rest of the folks battled. And I often thought, “Why did they do that?” Well, probably because we probably would’ve hurt somebody. [Laughter]. ‘Cause, you know, you’re in your top physical shape. Fist to cuffs, nah, you might not be a boxer, but bottom line is I run two, three miles every other day. Yes, if you make me mad enough, you could get hurt. But at Fort Meyers, that year we also had another pivotal event during Black History week. We had a play because there was a Black teacher by the name of Mrs. Brown who’s now—







Mildred Brown—who is now deceased that had us do a Black History play. I can’t even recall what the theme was, but at Cypress Lake and North Fort Meyers, those principals forbid them from having a play and Black students walked out.

And they came to Fort Meyers, and when we’re doing the play, we’re looking out there saying, “Hey, where did all you Black people come from?” Shoot, they came from the other schools to watch the play and that was sort of a protest that we were a part of during that period of time. And you know, I’ve never delved into it very deeply, but I will say that there is a certainty naivety on the part of Black school board members as well as White faculty about Black concerns, minority concerns. And they just felt, “Look, if we tell you all to do it, you’re going to do it.” There’s a certain amount of naivety to that and just writing off a total community as if it doesn’t count, and to me, that was a slap in the face of the Black community at that time. And it’s a wonder there weren’t even more racial eruptions of violence at that time ‘cause really all around the country, when you start talking about the [19]60s, every place was going through that kind of stuff.

And the school systems not handling integration in a proper and timely manner contributed to that. I think once kids got exposed to each other, they began to recognize that, we’re in the same boat. “My dad think I’m stupid too so hey, you know, what’s the deal?” They provide me room and board. They tell me what to do. I mean, bottom line is my dad do the same thing. And we’re in school. The teachers treat you the same way; you don’t know anything when you come to them. You do these kinds of things. Hopefully you know a little more when you leave me than when you’re here, and it’s all about following instruction and order







and this kind of thing. I think when you had the kids got along quite well, you always got that percentage of folks who have been brainwashed by their parents that look, “Just cause Johnny dark, Johnny stupid.” They start finding out no, Johnny might be dark, but Johnny ain’t necessarily stupid. Johnny not necessarily scared either. And quite frankly, me and Johnny, we probably shared a whole lot more than me and this older person who’s my parent sometime cause we’re in the same boat. I think if you look at the history of the fights began to diminish in part because people became more familiar with each other in the school system. The school systems became a little more receptive to bringing professionals and allowing them to teach, as oppose to warehouse kids because I’m sure you had your share of White teachers there that were afraid of Blacks for no apparent reason. It was a feeling out time, in my opinion, and I just happened to come along in it. I mean, I had a taste of the freedom of choice. I had a big taste of the forced integration, and then I was out of there. I went to college. I tried to play ball at the University of Central Florida, figured that wasn’t going to work out. Went to Edison, finished in a year. Went to Dillard University where I should’ve went the first time, on academic scholarship, which is a predominantly Black school. Had a wonderful college experience. Ended up getting married.

Ended up working professionally for the last thirty-something years and retiring. Then I went to University of South Florida and picked up a master’s degree later on, after I was in the working world because I began to realize even though you may be proficient in things, at some point credentialing plays a factor on your







upward mobility. So that’s why I went ahead and got the master’s degree. So I had a good time.

	V:	So actually there’s one thing I want to ask about before I move on to asking you about college stuff. And I think this is after you graduated—I think it was probably 1971 or something like that—but I heard that at one point during one of the fights at Fort Meyers high school that they brought in dogs to use.

	W:	I heard that too. I was not there. I was away, but I heard they brought in dogs and the kids ended up going to a Friendship Baptist church and talking about that incident. They very well could have brought in dogs at that time to get some order because really the year after I left—they say things get worse before they get better—they got worse. I wasn’t there. My sister was there, but she never really talked about that because my sister, keep in mind, was a genius. She graduated a year early. She took the NMSQT test, National Merit Scholarship Test, scored so high that she had a boatload of college offers.

	V:	Oh wow, that’s incredible.



	W:	Very much so. She ended up going to Dillard, but she could’ve gone to Harvard, Yale, Princeton, any of them. And she had a boatload of them. I ended up graduating a year before she did. She didn’t catch me. [Laughter]. She didn’t catch me, but she almost caught me.

	V:	Was that a joke in the family?



	W:	Actually, I never gave it any real thought until after I got out, and I said, “You know, my sister almost got out of college before I did [Laughter], and she was two years behind me.” But we had a wonderful time. She graduated in [19]71.







She was supposed to graduate in [19]72, but she scored so remarkably high on that test it was like, you know, “You’re going to college, we’re going to give you a diploma.” And that’s what they did.

	V:	Does she also still live around here?



	W:	She lives in Chattanooga, Tennessee. As a matter of fact, she just recently retired from Olin Chemical Company after forty-year service.

	V:	Oh whoa. So she was like a chemist?



	W:	She was what they call a Quality Control Engineer. So she started out as a lab technician analyst out of college and worked her way up the corporate level. She had her forty-year service, and the company’s getting ready to move to Houston, Texas, out of Chattanooga. And they gave her what I call a” Dream buy out.” She not have to worry about no money.

	V:	Yeah, good for her. [Laughter] W:	She done good. [Laughter]

	V:	All right. So now I want to ask about going to Dillard then. You said it was one of the HBCU’s up there?

	W:	Correct.



	V:	Okay. Well like yeah I guess it’s up there still. [Laughter] Usually it’s up there for like North, but like—

	W:	Is it yours?



	V:	Yeah, it’s still up there. So after you graduated then from college, you said you worked in the public sector in Louisiana afterwards. Did you decide to stay up







there because of just convenience or did you have any thoughts about coming back to Fort Meyers?

	W:	Well, I got married. My first wife is from New Orleans, and she was a year behind me so I stayed in New Orleans a year after I graduated. I worked for a company called Red Bolt Motor Freight as a twenty-four hour line dispatcher. Then went an economic downturn. We went from a three dispatch team to a two dispatch team. I worked a twelve-hour shift, and another Hispanic guy worked a twelve- hour shift ‘cause it’s a worthwhile operation. That wasn’t the killer. The killer was all members of management at some point in time were required to do a Saturday. So I remember going to work on a Friday, six o’clock, and I didn’t get out until Saturday at six o’clock.

	V:	Jesus. [Laughter]



	W:	That’s right. I missed my first wife’s I think commencement ‘cause I laid down and they say I woke up a day later. When you worked in the private sector, the bottom line was hey, you make money for the company. And as a dispatcher, we had twenty-four hour dispatch, we had to work with teams to drivers, we had to work with people to supplies. So you know, the bottom line is you had to do what you had to do to make it happen. Now, during that time is when they first started coming out with this key punch type operation where they would communicate between machines and stuff. I can recall one night, sitting there, a guy walks in and wants to get his papers to take the truck back, and I’m like, “You were not on my schedule.” And the reason it was important is because if you were teams to driver, and you don’t have an assignment within a certain time, they have to pay







you eight hours. Now, who get blamed for that? Me. The guy shows up, he’s there a couple minutes, and then all of the sudden the dispatch machine comes up. “Two hours ago, we sent somebody to you. Find him an empty to send him back.” And I’m like, really? So of course, I did what you’re supposed to do. I got him something, got him on his way, but I didn’t realize until later on, somebody screwed up at central dispatch, and they dumped it on me. All I knew was this mythical place called central dispatch in Dallas, Texas that controlled the system. I gave no thought to the fact that there’s some people over there just like you, [Laughter] you know, that doing the best they can with what they got. Sometimes they make mistakes. But I did that for a year, and then my wife graduated. We moved to Shreveport, Louisiana because she got a teaching job there. She was a special education teacher. In Shreveport, I worked as an insurance guy doing a debit and selling insurance. Now this was strange because the first policy I saw, say they had like five children. And I’m like, “I’m selling her a death policy?” And I’m like, “Hey”—

	V:	Oh?



	W:	[Laugher] I guess. You know, I’m thinking to myself, “You gotta make money.



Aye, she want it? Buy it.” But I did that for maybe about six months. And then the state had this civil service system, and I was hired as a support enforcement officer for the state of Louisiana. Supervisor of child support offenders because basically what happened was the Feds decided to move away from this notion of counseling people back together. They said, “Look, we got too many absent parents on welfare paying for their children. Where these absent parents?” So







they went to a system where, okay, if you getting a welfare check, whoever is the father of these children need to pay their money to us. You know and get them on that court order. And the state’s responsible for making sure that’s collected. So we work with the courts and the Office of Family Services. The idea was putting these people on their child support orders and collecting the money. So I did that for about two and a half years and got promoted to senior officer. And be honest with you, I just got tired of cold weather. It’s Shreveport to me. The first time I was there, it snowed for about three or four days, and I got caught up in that snow with an empty car, looking at dew crystalize.

	V:	Oh, Lord. [Laughter]



	W:	On a country road. And I said, “Man, this is kind of wild.” Second year, it snowed two weeks, and I had bought a brand new car. I ‘member going up a hill and somebody stopped at the top. So everything behind them slid right back down the hill. I’m in a brand new little Chevette and it’s like slow motion. My car, I had no control whatsoever of it. And then, it was just cold. I mean, for a Florida person it was just cold. And then in the summer time, it’d go the exact opposite. We had a week there where three of the seven days it was a hundred plus.

	V:	Oh, whoa.



	W:	And see, where Shreveport is, you basically have the Red River, which means if it’s hot in the day, it’s hot at night. I just made a conscious decision. I said, “Man, I need to go home.” I remember one night I was driving home, it was raining. It must’ve been twenty-something degrees outdoors with the rain, and I said, “I have no business up here. I need to leave.” I told my boss. I said, “Look, love my







job. Got promotion. I know you’re sending me anywhere I want to go, but the bottom line is, I’m going home. I’m Florida boy. I’m not Northwest Louisiana boy. I’m not a New Orleans, Louisiana boy. I’m going home. We picked the family up, and we moved back here in [19]78. Then I went to work for the State Florida Department of Corrections, supervising felons. Did that for a little over two and a half years and decided I didn’t want to do that anymore ‘cause I wasn’t a criminology major. After a while, you start seeing. These dudes have different problems. You look at people jaded, really, when you work with that. And I worked with felons. I mean, I remember the guy you read about in the newspaper, and they make the news with the stuff they do. So, the city of Fort Meyers decided it wanted to do an affirmative action program, and I competed for that position, got it. Developed an affirmative action program for the city, doing some training stuff, EEO and that kind of thing, with the city hiring authorities.

Then the county recruited me to handle their community relations office, and then I built an office with the cabinet of Office of Equal Opportunity. Then they went through several county administrators, and the last one I was under, the guy was intimidated by me, I hate to say. I don’t know why. I guess every conversation he would run into, my name might come up, but what he didn’t realize, I been up for twelve, thirteen years. I mean, come on. Most of these people here? I was here before you got here. I was here after they left here. The nature of my office got me involved in just about everything the county did cause from employment to contracting to fair housing issues, I mean, I was involved in it. So, make a long story short, we kind of had a meeting of the minds, and I said, “Well, it’s time for







me to go. I’m not gonna fight it too much.” I did take him to court. I did win a judgement, which was reversed by a judge that died, which meant that on appeal, I obviously didn’t get anything. You ain’t get any love on appeal. So then I went into teaching. Mr. McNernon, principal of Mariner High School, came, and well, Bobby Delasandro was superintendent then. She came to me and asked me if I wanted to teach, and I said, like I told you before, I did not go to school to teach. I’ve been working with adults most of my life. You turn me loose with your kid? Nah. I said, “Bobby, nah. I don’t think it’s gonna work.” [Laughter]. It’s just not gonna work. So after a while, I couldn’t find anything in the state bureaucracy, and I said, “Well, I’ll go into teaching.” I’ve really enjoyed it. I mean, hey. First of all, I couldn’t understand the schedule cause I kept looking at this schedule the guy was showing me, talking about this and. And I said, “Well, when do I eat?” [Laughter]. He says, “Well, you get twenty-five minutes for lunch with your kid.” I was like, “What?” Now keep in mind, I’m used to having an hour for lunch, and I’m like, “Hey, I’m an administrator.” I work as long as you want to, but nope, I’m not on a time clock. But I enjoyed it. I spent four years, I think, at Mariner, and then I spent two years at Bonita Middle. Did sixth and eighth grade there. And then I spent my last sixteen or seventeen years at Dunbar High School. I looked at. I had a good teaching career. They wanted me to become a principal, but I said, “Nah.” I said like, “Been there, done that. Just let me teach my classes.” I enjoyed it. I really did. But I put in. I figured after thirty-five years that was enough because after a while, you kind of like, “Been there, done that.” And then at teaching, they start coming up with using the technology and the







SmartBoard and the “this” and the “that.” Every time it look like I was learning a new program, I said, “Nah, I’m trying to go.” It’s time for me to go, I think. I’m technologically sufficient to the point that I want to be and just get by, but as far as loving it? No. ‘Cause I even notice it with the internet: you get used to seeing a certain thing and then all of the sudden it changes like, “Okay, now how do I do this?” You know? And I said, “Well, let me go with my gold shield.” I’ve been in retirement now since 2014 and very much involved with my church. We getting ready to build a multi-million dollar church in the community here. Still, I’m an avid golfer ‘cause I was a golf coach at Dunbar for twelve years. I started a golf program, I left the golf program, and next week, I set up a not for profit foundation in my father’s name because he died about twelve years ago. We give a scholarship to a graduating senior from a local high school each year, and we do a golf tournament as our primary fundraiser doing that. So we’ve done that for the last eleven years, and next year, Father’s Day weekend, we’ll have another one.

	V:	Oh wow, okay.



	W:	Yeah, so that’s sort of my busy time, really. Next week, we couldn’t have met.



Right now, I’d be saying, “Well, do we have all of the players? Do I have a size? Do I have this and that?” And we have a good time. I have about thirty-five or forty people that come out. They have a good time. We raise a little money. We rewarding a scholarship to a young lady graduating from Cypress this year that’s going to University of Florida, by the way.

	V:	Oh hey! [Laughter]







	W:	That’s right. She’s gonna study Business Administration. She’s got like a four point six GPA. I mean, great person. And my attitude is if we invest in our young people, young when they need it, when they get older they’ll come back to the community and make some contributions here. And I’ve often thought of that.

	V:	Yeah. Well, it sounds like even though you’ve left school and the county and stuff like that you’re still so busy [Laughter]

	W:	I’m still active. Sometimes I’m wondering, “Man, what is this stuff here? What is that?” It gets hectic sometime, but I impose an artificial schedule, really, because I usually on Friday, twelve o’clock, it ain’t gonna get done. I ain’t doing it. So I’m through, unless it’s an emergency. So I’ll go for Monday to Friday at twelve, that’s cool, but after twelve? Nah. I want to go golf. I want to look at TV. I want to chill out.

	V:	All right, so I wanted ask some questions about what you were telling me about like all your employment and things like that. I guess I’ll start with when you were a teacher because you were moving around schools and then you stayed at Dunbar for an extended period of time. Did you—‘cause I know Dunbar opened in the early 2000s—did you start at Dunbar at the year they reopened it?

	W:	The second year.



	V:	The second year, okay.



	W:	2001, I think I went to. Because they reopened Dunbar in 2000, and I came the second year. They only had freshmen and sophomore classes when I came because each year they would add an additional class. So I think their first graduating class wasn’t until like 2004, 2005. So each year, basically what would







happen, I taught World History, I believe, when I went there. And then I taught



U.S. History, and then I taught Economics. Anybody graduating from Dunbar through 2014 had my class. [Laughter] I put my imprint on them. You mention Mr. Wells, they will know who you talking about.

	V:	All right. [Laughter]



	W:	Because as a senior, and I know how the seniors work, government is a piece of cake. Economics, not a piece of cake. No, cause you gotta do a little math, you gotta do a little this, and the objective, really, is to let you know that, “Look, life can be fun, but then there’s some fundamentals that you need to take care of if you’re gonna be self-sufficient.”

	V:	Oh yeah.



	W:	You know, because I’ve had countless students come back and say, “Tell me, Mr. Wells, we only scratched the surface, but all that stuff you was telling us, it’s true.” It’s true. They expect you to work to get something, and if you don’t work, then they won’t call you back. And they won’t be mad with you either because there’s about five other people ready to do what you’re doing. I said, “Well, that’s good.” And I’m proud to say the vast majority of kids that I’ve had are doing something. They either went to college or working. As I run into them from time to time, they’ve got kids, they’ve got families. They’re making a contribution to the community. So I really saw my role as a teacher has to communicate that to a seniors, which I preferred. Because I’ll be honest with you, the two years I spent in middle school, I almost had a nervous breakdown, really. I went from teaching twelfth grade to sixth grade, and I remember in sixth grade, kids went, “We want







to have snack time.” I said, “What?” I caught myself, I said, “No, this is a elementary school kid.” And the parents used to say, “Well you know, he used to teach in high school.” So the principal say, “We’re into character teaching here.” And I thought about the Charles Barkley thing, “I am not your role model.” [Laughter]. But then I said, “Well, I only had two years in middle school.” And the first chance I got I went back to high school cause I said, “This ain’t gonna work.” ‘Cause I taught sixth grade, and then I taught eight grade. Now eighth graders were okay because they were ready to go to the next level.

	V:	Yeah, they were like on the line.



	W:	Yeah, they were ready to roll. But I will tell you, ninth graders? They’re out to lunch. In high school, oh gosh. When I went back to high school, I had this ninth grade class, and I’m like, “I knew you in eighth grade. You weren’t like this, man.” And I think what it is it’s like the lights. All of a sudden, they’re in a population, they’re the smallest people on campus, and they see all of these big folks around, and they really don’t know where they fit in. So, what ends up happening is sometimes if the middle school hasn’t prepared them to really read and study, they do not know what earning a credit means ‘til they have to go to summer school. [Laughter] And somebody, I think our counselor, is sitting around talking about, “Now, okay. Next year, here’s your goal. Now this year, you were supposed to get six credits. You only got four. Now next year, in order for you not to be super behind, you’re gonna have to make up those two and make sure you get six more. Now you need to think about how you lost two and that behavior. If you can control it, you need to avoid that one. And otherwise, you’re gonna be in







school with your friends’ little brothers and sisters, trying to explain why your friend graduated and you not graduate. And recognize that high school teachers are a little different from middle school teachers. If they don’t like you, they’re not paid to like you. They are paid to give you instruction and treat you fair. Now anything beyond that, I mean, it ain’t happening.” And see, a lot of your freshmen after that first year, the lights go off and then they begin to realize, “Look, if my plan is to get a high school diploma, this is what I gotta do.” I enjoy seniors because they have already made a decision. “I’m either going into the military, I’m going to college, or I’m going to work, but no matter which one I go to, they’re going to ask did I get my high school diploma.” So my attitude was, “We good. We can work with that because I know that if you go into work world and you can’t add and you can’t read, that’s not going to reflect well on me. And it definitely not going to get you anywhere.” Because I had countless attorneys telling us, “Well, you teach economics? Teach them how to balance a checkbook.” [Laughter]. I said I will do it because they came up with a program, Junior Achievement, which they institutionalize—I don’t know where this fly come from—

	V:	Oh no.



	W:	Institutionalize where you had to do some applied economics on the computer. Cause I was able to balance it out because often time what grapple with in high school was how could I give a child a balance between the practical application of economics and the theoretical, and if they found themselves in the college course, they’re not totally lost. Because in college, they use to teach you Macro







one semester and Micro one semester, and often time, if you hadn’t had any, that’s like Greek. It really is.

	V:	Oh, trust me. I know. I was in an Econ major before I switched over to History so I know. [Laughter]

	W:	You know. And a lot of the time it’s like, man, especially when they get into applied and all of this. It’s kind of like, “Wow, this ain’t real world, is it? I mean this is?” You talk about x and y, and I’m like, “What the heck?” So what I would do— for my honors classes—I would do some Micro basic principles, and near the end, I might sprinkle in a little bit of Macro. Not much because for college students Macro is crazy. I took it in college; I’m like, “I have idea how I passed some of that [inaudible 50:15]” Cause I was in a class with five hundred, and you know, the dude was Arabian or some way. He was not even American, and sometimes he’d get excited and we don’t know what the heck he’s talking about, you know? I went by his office one time; I said, “No. You can’t explain this to me. I got to go and get a tutorial or something.” I was able to pass the course, but I realized it can get pretty intense. So I tried to do that with the high school too.

Just give them just a taste so they know when they go into college you’re going to cover the book, not just a couple of chapters. And that’s what really, I think, blows a lot of people’s minds when they go to college. They’re used to covering a few chapters. Got to get three or four books, he think you read them all.

	V:	Yeah. [Laughter]



	W:	And in History, I know you do that. I mean, and in Grad school? V:	Phew, that’s like a book a week. [Laughter]







	W:	It is.



	V:	Yeah.



	W:	But it’s like anything else, though. If you do it enough, it comes easier to you. And you know, after a while, aye it’s just, “Okay, I saw this one before. This is just a reiteration of that, and okay.” I know where we’re coming from. I’m speaking the language, so to speak. But you got to practice it. You can’t just pick it up and put it down. And then Econ is one of those subjects; you can’t just pick it up and put it down. You either in it or you’re not. It’s like taking algebra. You’re either in it or you’re not. And a lot of teachers that did what I did, transitioned from one are to come into teaching, what hangs them up, really, is the logic. The math. Mainly because it wasn’t taught. When I went to school, yeah, I got through college Algebra and stuff, but they didn’t teach me no logic. I had to take a refresher course to get my teacher’s license in logic. Keep in mind, I had already passed Research Methods and Stat, but logic is a little different. It’s another language, and if you know the language, you can speak it, but if you haven’t seen the language or nobody’s exposed you to it, you up the creek. But no, I had a good time. Teaching really became a lot of fun. The first couple years teaching, I was wondering, “You guys really don’t pay enough for people to do all of this.” Folks don’t understand. You got to put together the lesson plan. You got to put together some kind of exercise that a typical person, conscientious person can do and hopefully gain something. And then you have to evaluate them from time to time. One thing about college, though, is you don’t have to evaluate them as regularly. In high school, shoot. We finished the chapter, we gonna have a test. I taught a







college course. We had a paper, we had one mid-term and one final. Excuse me, someone butt-calling me here, interrupting us.

	V:	Oh, that’s fine. If you need to take it, I can stop it and then start. W:	Let me take it. [Break in recording]

	V:	We’ll make good use of these fifteen minutes then. All right, so I got two more questions then. Last thing I want to ask about with you teaching and being at Dunbar, I want to know what was the talk in the community at the time when they were talking about reopening Dunbar? Why did they decide to reopen it?

	W:	Well, I think there was a push on the part of the NAACP at that time that with the growing student population and the facility where it was, it made no sense not to use it. When they reopened it, it was kind of, in my opinion, an appeasement because when I went back the second year, we were teaching in the same structure that I had in the [19]60s.

	V:	Oh, okay. That’s uh. . .



	W:	Yeah, it was. I mean, it’s functional, but hey, come on. I had taught at some other high schools. At Mariner, I’m like, there was no comparison, okay? In what happened over the time I was there, it became more and more apparent that the structure had to be changed because I had an experience in my classroom about two or three years before I retired. A kid kept telling me, he says, “Mr. Wells, there’s a black spot coming up in the floor.” And I’m like, “Really? Just, you know, wipe it up.” Wipe it up, come back. Wipe it up, come back. Come to find out, it was a pipe from the science wing that had percolated up through the soil, through the cement, into the structure.







	V:	Oh wow.



	W:	Right. And the way the district discovered that, I was displaced out of my room for practically a year while they built, while they dug a four by six foot hole through the concrete, to the pipe. And after that, I think somebody said, “You know, we just need to tear this building down and rebuild like we should have when we opened back in 2001.” Okay? Because the population was growing, the programs there are excellent. I mean, they’re done a real great. They have an IB program there for engineering students. IB is usually the college bound, social- type curriculum. Now, their IB program is designed for people going into Engineering school in math and such. So you can actually finish there and make a decent living. Microsoft certification, the whole bit. But they should’ve done that before they opened it.

	V:	Okay, so when they reopened—because I know about them having built the entirely new Dunbar school now—when they reopened they just threw you guys in the school that had just opened in the [19]60s—

	W:	Pretty much.



	V:	Yeah, okay. [Laughter]



	W:	Pretty much that’s what it was. ‘Cause I taught on the freshmen wing, and I remember the first year. It was always under construction. They got a light at the end of the thing; you’d have to walk toward the light to go to my wing. And I kept thinking to myself, “You know, rather than piecemealing this construction stuff, the prudent thing would be to raise this whole building.” Decide if you want to keep a historical piece because they had an octagon shaped band room that I







thought they should’ve kept. Because I played in the band when I was coming up, and I remember learning to play instruments in that room. They used it as the equipment room for the sports supplies because I had a heck of golf equipment. Oh gosh. I must’ve had two-thousand clubs in there.

	V:	Oh wow.



	W:	People would donate stuff, and I threw away a bunch of stuff. I mean, some of the stuff they donate was trash, but I kept a lot of stuff. And I use to tell the AD there, “Look, you realize you got one of the best equipment facilities here?” And it was hard to get golfers. Few people go to Dunbar and most of them want to play basketball and football. The building should’ve been raised when they reopened it, but they didn’t. It was an appeasement. We made it work. And when I say “we,” I mean the faculty that was there. I mean the kids. We did what any other school. Carl Burnside was very good with picking talent to come into that school that could relate to the types of kids that went to that school. And that’s why they get all kinds of awards and stuff, you know? And their athletic program is by none. You know the Dunbar Tigers.

	V:	Oh yeah.



	W:	You see the orange and green and you know. When we use to play teams and stuff, my kids they had on them bright orange shirts, and I say, “Well, one minute of what you knew is out there.” [Laughter]

	V:	I remember when I was interviewing George Mayo he had on a Dunbar High School shirt with the tiger, and he’s like, “You know what that is?” I’m like, “Oh you know damn well I know what that is.” [Laughter]







	W:	Right. Exactly right. And it was in this school. What I find with the young people, the school that that colors fall up was Florida A&M University. A lot of them think of University of Miami. I say, “Nah, you got to go back a little farther.” Cause they use to call the Dunbar band the “Little Marching One Hundred” after Florida A&M’s band. One thing I enjoyed, being there I would share some of my perspective of history from what I remembered. And they say, “All those signs?” Say, “Yeah back in the day that’s what they did now. They don’t mean some of the stuff you all attach to it.” That’s what they meant back in the day. What else you got to ask?

	V:	I wanted to ask when you were working county and stuff like that from like the [19]70s up until you became a teacher—I wanted to ask because we don’t really talk about the late [19]70s or present day, it’s kind of like at the cusp of where we talk about history and stuff like that—what were some of the problems that were prevalent in the community when you were working?

	W:	Okay. When I came back as a felony probation parole officer, we didn’t have many Black felony probation parole officers, but we had a lot of Black probationers and parolees. In the court system, you didn’t have a lot of Blacks and Browns in the court system because see back then, I think Judge Isaac Anderson was like the first county judge, and then he was the first circuit judge. And he and I use to be jokin’. I said, “Man, I’m the tall skinny one down here and you the short, fat one.” [Laughter] Because we were the only two Black folk who worked downtown.

	V:	Oh really?







	W:	Yeah. He was over in Court Administration; I was in the county administration building when I was an administrator.

	V:	Oh wow, okay.



	W:	‘Cause see, when I ran the Office of Equal Opportunity, I was the only Black administrator down there. They didn’t have anyone else. And I recall when I worked for the city, I had a parking space next to Code Enforcement, and I used to always wear a suit and a tie, coat and jacket and stuff. One guy told me, he said, “Man, guy just sit there and watch you go walk to your car, take your jacket off and fold it, and just shake his head.” I say, “Well, whatever.” [Laughter] I say, “Look, hey. I’m working, man. This is how I work.” But we were pioneers. ‘Cause I remember sitting in the mayor’s office, looking out over the [inaudible 1:02:18] ain’t too many Black people up here doing this. I embraced it, though, being the oldest in my family, being a second generation college graduate. Hey, I’m just doing what I’ve been trying to do. I didn’t ask anybody to do me no favors. I did my job. And when I went into academia, there are many Blacks that made many more strides there because they had Black principals and this kind of stuff in academia, but when I worked at Bonita Middle, there wasn’t much. I think two Black males in middle schools in south Fort Myers.

	V:	I think you’re actually right with that because I remember looking at a News- Press where it was—I don’t remember when it was printed but it was in the desegregation folder they have over in a museum, in the office. And I remember—I think you’re right—it was Bonita Springs. I saw there were two







Black kids. And I was thinking to myself, “Imagine being one of those two kids in an entire school where there’s no one else like you.”

	W:	Right?



	V:	But I can relate to you too.



	W:	True ‘cause when I taught, News-Press did a story, and I was the only Black male middle school teacher down there. In all the middle schools. And see, Bonita Middle is a strange school, number one. First of all, it’s international. In other words, they got more Hispanics at Bonita Middle. Well when I was there. That’s when I learned that in the Hispanic culture there are different types.

	V:	Oh yeah, oh yeah.



	W:	You know? ‘Cause I had a kid come in and tell me, “Mr. Wells, we’ll see you in two months.” I said, “What do you mean two months?” They finna to go to Mexico. And sure enough, they came back two months. The first year I was there, I went to the graduation exercise, and you would’ve thought they graduated from college. I asked someone. I said, “What? Don’t they know they got three or four more years to do?” They said, “Nah.” Let me tell you. The males, they go to work.

	V:	Oh, okay.



	W:	Period. When they get eighth grade, they go to work. They don’t go to high school; they go to work. The females, if they’re smart, they go to high school. If not, they go to work too.

	V:	Wow.



	W:	Yes.







	V:	And this was in like late [19]90s?



	W:	Not yet. This was like before I went to Dunbar. This was like [19]99, [19]98.



Yeah, [19]99, [19]98.



	V:	Is that even still legal now? I thought you were required to bring your kids to high school.

	W:	Well, sixteen.



	V:	Yeah, sixteen and you can be off on your own.



	W:	That’s right, and see, some of those people, some of those Hispanics did not start school on time, in part because of the work duties. When you start looking at the Hispanic community, an awful of their parents still file that migrant work fare type thing, which means there are big patches of time when the kids aren’t in any kind of school. So a lot of time it’s not unusual for them to be fifteen, sixteen years old in middle school. That was a culture educational thing for me. Then you got all these different languages, and I didn’t speak fluent Spanish. I mean, I knew a little bit of Spanish, but I didn’t speak fluent Spanish. Bonita Middle, that was like working in foreign country. I mean, I did what I needed to do. The bottom line is they have their own obstacles to education, and when you look at the parentage, they don’t think about their kids going through high school to college. They think about their kids getting to the point where they can read enough, write enough to interpret and go to work. ‘Cause they’re often times helping parents who have no fluency in English at all. Once you get out of middle school, you’re not super educated, but you can get by. And that’s what happens. So they don’t go home. Now, if you go to Estero, there’s probably a much larger







percentage of Hispanics that are matriculating there now, but that’s been an evolving thing. Since the 1990s. That’s been evolving; that ain’t always been the case. I found that interesting the brief period of time I was down there. One of the other biggest reasons I moved from there is driving from east Fort Myers to Bonita Middle was at least a thirty, forty-five minute drive. And the price of gas went up to where it’s prohibitive, you know? And I remember going, one time it took me an hour to get home because of an accident in the last half. [Laughter] Yeah, oh man, it was wild. Because principal hated the [inaudible 1:07:53]. I got to get close to my house. I probably could’ve stomached doing middle school the rest of my career, but that drive was killing me.

	V:	Oh I imagine. I was gonna ask about that too. It’s like you staying at Dunbar too.



If it was just a matter of convenience or—



	W:	It was a matter of convenience too. Well, I kind of looked at it like, “Look, I taught the northernmost high school because Mariner at that time was the northernmost. I taught at the southernmost middle school so now I’m right in the middle of every school. I’m good.

	V:	All right. [Laughter]



	W:	You look at my career. Aye, I’ve done it. I’ve been there.



	V:	All right. Well, I guess we’re hitting fifteen minutes. Right there on the thing so we’ll end it there. Thank you so much, Lovie.

	W:	All right. I enjoyed it.



	V:	Thanks for doing it with me. [End of Interview]







Transcribed by: Megan Cannan



Audit-Edited by:

Sandra Romero

December 4, 2020

Final-Edited by:

Sandra Romero

February 11, 2021