AAHP 255; Williams and Barnett; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 255 Cassie Rosemary Williams and Mildred Barnett African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Anthony Pierce on February 27, 2012 1 hour, 8 minutes | 31 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Mrs. Cassie Rosemary Williams and Mrs. Mildred Barnett describe race relations in Polk County as well as their life experiences. Mrs. Barnett was born in Lake County then moved to New York as a teenager, and returned to Florida to live in Polk County as an adult. Mrs. Williams was born in Alabama then moved to New Jersey when her parents passed away. She moved to Panama City with her brother and got married then settled in Lake Wales. In Lake Wales, she worked in the migrant reading program with the school system. Mrs. Barnett worked as a doctor’s receptionist for fifteen years in New York, and could not find the same work when she moved to Polk County with her husband. Instead, she worked in the Donald Duck canning plant until her and her husband were able to purchase a house and then she worked as a caretaker for an elderly woman until she passed away. They both remember the church serving the Black community by uniting and taking care of people.



Keywords: [African American History; segregation; integration; church]







































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 255

Interviewee: Cassie Rosemary Williams and Mildred Barnett Interviewer: Anthony Pierce

Date: February 2, 2012



	P:	Today is February 27th. I am at the home of Mildred Barnett. Can you ladies please state your names?

	B:	Mildred Barnett.



	W:	Cassie Rosemary Williams.



	P:	Are you ladies comfortable sharing your age? W:	Yes. Eighty-eight.

	P:	Eighty-eight.



	B:	Eighty-six.



	P:	Eighty-six. And were you born in Polk County? B:	No.

	W:	No.



	P:	Okay. Where were you born?



	B:	Think it’s Lake County. Mount Dora. That’s up Leesburg. That’s Lake County. P:	Lake County, okay. And what about you?

	W:	I was born in the state of Alabama. Houston County, out from Dothan, named Pansey, Alabama.

	P:	Okay. And so, how did you come to move here? B:	To Lake Wales?

	P:	Yes, ma’am.



	B:	Marriage brought me to Lake Wales. P:	Okay. And when was that?

	B:	Sixty—yeah—no, it wasn’t. Yeah, [19]63.





	P:	In [19]63. Okay. And what about you?



	W:	I married a GI in 1944. I was living in Panama City, and his home was here. And whenever he went overseas, I came here in 1944.

	P:	Okay. And so, once you moved here in Polk County, what were race relations like between Blacks and Whites?

	B:	Not very good.



	P:	Okay.



	B:	It was kind of strained, you know, strained. You know, division.



	P:	It was a lot of division. Okay, can you elaborate on that a little bit more? Tell us a little bit more about it?

	B:	Well… Like when you went—it’s certain places you didn’t go. And it seemed like if you did go some places, you were the last one to get waited on or taken care of, no matter how, you know, early you got there. And it was more difficult for me because I had lived in New York for twenty-five years. And it made it so much different, you know. Because there, it still exists, but it’s not as apparent as it is here, you know?

	P:	So that move from the North to the South, that was shocking, to see how the— B:	Yeah. Told you I was born here, but my family migrated to New York when I was,

I think twelve. Twelve, thirteen.



	P:	So you were born in Polk County, then you moved. B:	Yes. No, born in Lake County

	P:	In Lake County. You’re right, you’re right, I apologize. How would you describe race relations?





	W:	Well, mine was—being on a farm as a child, my parents worked in and out of the farm country, and we were segregated living in a home setting; you was out on the farm, but you wasn’t near the White family—not too many, it’s one or two maybe, that was doing the same kind of work you were doing. And being from the South going North—for children, I imagine—it was a drastic change for me because we went into integrated school. The schools was integrated, and that was just about all. Other than that, you had your own social standings. Black, and then the White had theirs. It was hardly ever you had a mixture. Only in the school.

	B:	Even in the church. I didn’t ever went to no White church. Whoever heard of such a thing? Like, mix going to a White church like they do now? No.

	P:	That didn’t happen.



	B:	I never went, was in one.



	P:	And it didn’t matter the denomination? It just, it just—? Okay.



	B:	I never—even the Catholic, I never. Not since I’ve been in Lake Wales, till recent years, you know. Like going to the Methodist Episcopal. I never.

	P:	Okay. So growing up, what was your role in your family? What role did you play growing up?

	B:	I played the, I guess I’d say I played—it was so many, but I played the third momma. Because momma was the mother, but it was sixteen of us and it’s only a year, eleven months apart. And my oldest sister was the second. Like, she cooked—and I don’t like cooking, and nobody tell me about no cooking. Because I been cooking here since I could get to the stove, and my older sister, that’s all





she did. And then, my mother. And then my mother got a restaurant. And you know you was cooking all the time. All the time. So you played, like, a—I guess I was the third mommy with the little ones, because everybody—you had a baby, you had to bathe it. If he soiled his diaper, you was the one that had to change that diaper. You had to bathe him and everything. That’s your baby. My brother Raymond, then, right there, that was my baby. He’s deceased now. And you had to play the role of a—help your momma. A momma helper, a mother-helper.

	W:	When I was twelve years old, both of my parents died eleven days apart. And it was pretty hard on my brother that was home. He and two other brothers was older than me, and they just didn’t know how to cope. At least, the two of them didn’t. The older brother, the one that took care of us—and he had promised my daddy that he would keep us all together until his, my older sister would get us. They was living in New Jersey, and that’s why we ended up in New Jersey. But it was sort of a hectic time for me, because I was the only girl home, and the chores fell upon me to learn how to take care of the household. And I had some nice people that was good to me, and especially one of my teachers. She made sure that I got the training I was supposed to get for a girl that age: in how to take care of myself, and how to groom myself, all around to being in a household, having a little brother that you have to learn how to take care of. So, that’s what I did. But I didn’t get away from that. [Laughter] I thought I was, when my sister got us, that I was finished with that. But I still had to fall in and help by being the oldest girl there. They sent me to do this and that. You know, to help take care.





	P:	Okay. And once you got married, and started your own family, how did your role change? Or did it change?

	W:	As far as taking care of family? P:	Yes, ma’am.

	W:	It didn’t really change, because I was filling in what I had learned how to do with mine.

	P:	Right. And same with you?



	B:	Likewise. It’s so many of us, you know, you trained to take care of children. P:	So you—

	B:	Especially when I’m the third oldest out of sixteen, and the second girl. So, you



know you got your hands full.



	P:	So you have both been taking care of children in the household for as long as you can remember.

	B:	Mmhm.



	W:	Mmhm.



	P:	Okay. What jobs did you have growing up, or throughout your life, as far as pay jobs?

	W:	When I was living in Panama City with my brother, when I left New Jersey, came, and there I was in the tenth grade. And I found some friends that was from Lake Wales. I didn’t know them till later, but was working in a hotel. And he got me a job helping him serve the young people that came in, which was White children that had a place for them to go, but Black people didn’t have that. But we served those kids when they came into this area. It was like a dance hall, something for





the kids. But we served them sandwiches, and soda pops, and everythings. So he got me that job after school. And after that, I ended up coming here and I did what you call “days’ work.” You did so many—you could clean, or you wash, or you iron. And that was kind of job that I could get. And then years went by, I started in the kindergarten, and I had a kindergarten at the church. The first church I had it at was Allen Temple. And after years went by, Reverend Robertson came, our pastor, and he was wondering why I didn’t have kindergarten in my church; I told him the board wouldn’t let me have it. But anyway, I ended up coming back to the first institution with the kindergarten. And it was named John F. Kennedy. And from that, I eventually went into the school system with the migrant reading program. So with that, I worked about thirteen years there before I had to retire. And that’s the source of my things that I did.

	P:	Okay, [inaudible 11:30].



	B:	Let me see; the first paying job I had was after school in Mt. Dora. It was a old lady, and she was a invalid, and they paid me fifty cents a weeks to sit with her in the afternoon. Because the lady that stayed with her went on. And I stayed with her until her sister came home from work, after school. As soon as I got out of school, I’d go straight there, and I was getting fifty cents a week, and five days in a week. That was my first paying job. I think my oldest sister had a job taking care of some of family up in Mt. Dora. And I used to go out and help her on the weekends. And then I got a job with those people and then we went to New York. And I worked for them, I guess, a year. Then after that, my next paying job I got was taking care of two little girls down on Central Park West. Their daddy was a





stockbroker. Frumkes. And I took care of Zenia and her for a while. Then I got a job, receptionist in a doctor’s office in New York. They have a row of doctors in New York; a whole block of them. Nothing but Black physician. That’s between 7th and 8th Avenue in New York. And I was a doctor reception nurse for fifteen years there in the office. And I guess that’s the—and I married and came here a second time, and that was the last job I had in New York, the doctor’s receptionist. And I came here, and I couldn’t find work here. Now, they weren’t hiring no Black girls at no doctor’s office or nothing here. So I had a White insurance man named Tony. He tried, then I could get a job at the hospital, but they weren’t paying but thirty dollars a week. I can’t drive, so my husband say, “By the time you pay tax, Mildred, you might as well stay home.” You know? You couldn’t make no money, and they certainly wouldn’t have no Black girls in no office anywhere up around. So, I got a few days’ work. And then I got a job out the Citrus World. And we were in the process of buying this house. But my husband being in the fruit, that’s not considered a job. They wouldn’t let you have no house on his record. I had outstanding records in New York, but that was in New York. I needed to be established in Florida. So I took the job at the canning plant. At that time, it was Donald Duck. And I work out there a season, and I had a man over the project like Albert is now; he held that, White man. So he said, “Hold the job until your house come through. If it come through, then I don’t care what you do.” So I worked out there one season, then the house come through, and I haven’t been back out there since. That’s hard work out there! That’s slave work out there! Everybody, we used to say out here, Ruth Brown, and Ms. Daisy





and all them say, and Martha Mae say, “That canning plant’ll make you hurt places you didn’t even know you had!” It’s some hard work out there! I tell you. And when I got and they wrote for me to come back, I throwed that mess in the garbage. And from then on, I did a little days’ work till I got a steady job taking care of an old lady, and I took care of her, I worked for her thirty years until she died.

	P:	Okay. Did you have any community involvement?



	B:	I stayed in the middle of it. So the PTA, and at schools, and then the—I can’t think of the name of it right now, but anyway it was where you went into the city hall and you learned—race relations. They would ask citizens to come and be in on the meetings, and anyway, you know what’s going on and everything. And Mr. Gary Voss—and he was a contractor, he build houses and whatnot. And years later I found out he was a cousin of my daddy’s; I didn’t know it at that time. And he and his wife would always ask me to come in and sit so we could learn what was going on. And race relationship wasn’t as good as it could have been, because you didn’t have people interested in it enough to push. You had segregated things here that they didn’t want to get involved. And it was sort of hard on young people going to school and trying to manage. It wasn’t, it was better then for young people to get a job in food and whatnot—restaurants, you know, things like that—than it is now. That you just can’t get anything now. It’s nothing offered to them that they will accept, because they haven’t learned how to accept that. But anyways I was in everything, the school functions and whatnot. When my kids was in, I would be there to try to find what’s going on.





And I lived across in front of Roosevelt, and whenever something was going on, I would know it because they come across there and tell me. “You need to see about this,” “You need to see about that.” And not that I was trying to be nosy or nothing like that, but I was concerned about their welfare. And it was quite a few Blacks that would go and see about their kids. Nowadays it’s not just that good, because they won’t go. But down through the years, my kids went. The oldest one finished high school, he went to Bethune-Cookman College. And then the next one, he wasn’t raised here, he was raised in New Jersey, so he went on in school from there. But my daughters, they all went here. And my oldest son ended up in politics in Riviera Beach, and my oldest daughter also. One time, they was the only brother-sister team on the commissioners board, city board and everything. So, they did pretty good for themselves, you know. I was proud of them, but you want them to come back home to do something. He applied for job here, but they wouldn’t call him—at least, they didn’t call him. So anyway, when segregation came about, we had one person that would stand out—this was James Austin. He pushed the citizens into realizing that, after Martin Luther King, that they had a right to do this or do that. And it’s not where it should be right now. It’s a tough job out there for the young people. But everybody will have to learn that God intend for all us to be equal. Even though we’re not—if we don’t want to communicate with each other socially, everything, that’s okay with me.

But when God’ words tell you to separate yourself from this or separate from that, in his word, that’s what you supposed to do. But it’s sort of hard with people learning how to deal with each other, and that’s what we all have to do. Learn





how to get along, and then just hold out. Then God will make it come in to where he want it to go so we can be peaceful. But it’s pretty sad right now that people can’t live with each other like they should.

	W:	We can see, what you’re taught, what is instilled in you when you young; you always kind of lean in that direction. If you don’t believe it, let Reverend Pearson and us be invited to First Baptist up there. And when we come in, we all’ll sit together. And we mostly get in the back. Because it’s instilled in us, you know? And I remember Ms. Austin said—we were going to the Methodist church, that was when Bannon was here—for a fellowship one night, and Ms. Austin and they were saying, “Don’t all of y’all get in the back and sit; so scatter out, so spread out.” But whenever we go, we going jump right together. You know, we went to that meeting the other night: where were all the Black people? We were right back there in the back together.

	B:	I didn’t go.



	W:	You didn’t go up there? Yeah, you went! When we went up there, Rev had us go to help that church up there.

	B:	Oh, Harvest, yeah.



	W:	Yeah, you know all us was piled up there in the back, all behind us; very few of us went right up front.

	B:	We didn’t sit up front; the rest of them.



	W:	Yeah, but it’s instilled; and the rest of them, and they and look, and they see where the Black—then all us’ll get together. We won’t go up there on the front or spread out with them, because it’s instilled in us. And you look—and I remember





Ms. Austin going, say, “Let’s don’t all just get in the back; go on up front!” I know my husband—and he was older than me, and you know, we’d go to shopping up to Winn Dixie, he’d get far, the farthest row back up there to park. I said, “If I’d have want to walk up here, I’d have walked up here; go up there and take me near the store!” [Laughter] Because it’s instilled in us! And what you know, you do. Monkey see, monkey do. The younger people, now, they’re—you know, you don’t push them around like they did us. But, like I say: we know our place; “get in your place.” And that was our place, you know?

	B:	Right down there in Frostproof, that’s where my husband came, and I came down to visit my daddy. My daddy lived out there, too. And I know in Frostproof, it’s a Ford place there now, right on the side out. You went and brought your groceries, and they had a big old oak tree. You couldn’t stand on the sidewalk; you could not stay in the store. You got your groceries, and you waited under that tree—they ain’t have but one taxi—until whoever was coming to pick you up, or that taxi. If it was raining, snowing: you stood under that big tree. Where that Ford place, it used to be a Ford place, you got your groceries, you got out that store, and you went and stood ‘til somebody come and pick you up. You couldn’t stay in the store. You couldn’t stand on the sidewalk. Right there in Frostproof.

Come through some terrible times. And I have been, I came down to visit my daddy one time, right in Frostproof. My sister lived down there, Clarence’ mother. And we were going to St. Pete to do some shopping, because it had nice stores. I guess Black people’d go up, took me to St. Pete. And we got on that bus, and you know in the back, that last seat in the back, and the next one to that is for the





Black people. When we got on that bus, Frostproof—where were we at? And when we got—I don’t know if it was in Lakeland or where—and it was a gang of people, and White—maybe it was two. And my daddy was sitting on that seat. He was sitting on the seat next to the back where they liked Black people to sit. And one went to get up, the bus driver come back—and, now, this your father— “Nigger, don’t you see them White women standing up? Get up out that seat!” And all he could say is, “Yes, sir.”

	W:	Even though Alabama was one of the worst states that had segregation, where my daddy lived on a farm and everything, to me—when I look back on it—to me, he was well thought of between the Blacks and the Whites. And he got along with everybody, and they treated him nice. We didn’t lack for anything.

	B:	That’s the same way as in Mount Dora. My daddy never lack, and my momma and them, they had good respect. Never lacked for anything. Because they said, “Burly”—it was two families in the town, the Brooks family and Burly. They had more children than anybody; at Christmastime you couldn’t get in that house, because them White people would bring everything you could name out there.

You know, they’d say, “Burly’s a good old nigger, and he works hard, and he takes care—.” They would bring plenty stuff. We always had plenty, because they always knowed that we were the two family had the most children. And they were always bringing to you. But socially and all that kind of stuff, no. And my daddy, see, he worked. He picked fruit. He used to hunt opossum and whatever, and sell it. And then he had a barber shop. He had a barber shop on one side, my mother had a restaurant on the other side. So we worked home. When





Momma’s in the restaurant, one us oldest girls got to take care the house, get the food, get the children clean. And Daddy be in the barber shop. But he only barbered on the weekend. He went to the grove, and he hunt and did other things during the week. And on Saturday, Friday evening and Saturday—and Sunday, never went to church much—he cut hair. Twenty-five cents a head. And my oldest sister, now, if Mother was home, we had to be on the cash register in the barber shop. One of them old cash registers, twenty-five cents a head. And my daddy liked to taste, so when he was getting lit there, Momma say, “Clean out the cash register, and bring the money home.” Or they had taught her, either you pin a sock in your bosom, and put them quarters in that thing, carry it home. [Laughter] And that’s what we did.

	P:	Now, what role did the church play? What role did the Black church play?



	W:	Well, First Institutional has always been for education. They would try to get everybody together to educate the kids and everything, because Roosevelt was a school that dealt in furthering education; further than high school, or further than—. Because at one time, before Roosevelt was built, they had to leave Lake Wales and go to Lakeland or somewhere and finish high school, or what school they was going to. They didn’t have the schools then. But after I came here, I learned that Roosevelt was built in 1937. And then they began to let it go all the way up to twelfth grade. Then they added on different things, like a library and whatnot. But anyway, that was an all-Black school. And everybody in the vicinity, like Frostproof or whatnot, they bused them—the Whites—here, to go to school. And I want to get back to when they had two theatres downtown. And the Black





kids had to sit upstairs in the balcony to watch the movie. And during that time, I think my oldest son must have been about, like—well, just before integration got in—into, in the [19]60s—they had Ku Klux Klan marching. Gonna get them out the movie. They going do their thing to get them out the movie. Mr. Austin and his NAACP crew, they got those kids out and sent them home, got them home. When they crossed the railroad track—right there down on 1st Street, they crossed the railroad track. The canning plant was down that end, facing 1st Street. From Seaboard, right? My father-in-law told me, he said, “Something is going on.” He said, “I can hear car horns blowing and whatnot.” Because we didn’t have too many cars. But it was still the cars blowing; he say, “Something going on.” And one of the cab drivers came and told him that all the World War II veterans that was here had their weapons, and they was down there by the railroad track, in the part of the train track that go into town. They were by the car boxes with their weapons. Said if anybody crossed that track that wasn’t Black, they was going kill him. And so, I can’t think of this man’ name: Mr.—. Mmph! But anyway, he got all of them together at our church and told them, “Don’t do that. If you want to get peace and things going right, just don’t do it as long as they don’t come down here and start something.” And lo and behold, who you would think was in the middle of it? John Paul Rogers, one of our commissioners now. And it’s sad. It’s sad that ones that knew what he stood for and everything and all, but they still got—

	B:	He was a Wizard, a Grand Wizard.





	W:	See, and they got him. So I don’t know whether he’s changed or not, but I don’t think a—

	B:	A leopard’ spots don’t change.



	W:	—a leopard don’t change his spots! And it was terrible! And my kids, they couldn’t go to a movie. We had a movie right on 6th Street, a big old barn they called the Tin Can, because it was made out of tin. And a lady came from Bartow and set up a movie thing in there for the Black kids to go. See, that happened, after I came to Lake Wales. See, all that was going on when integration came in the schools, 1969. I was living across 27. When I know anything, they done picked up Gerry, all the kids from Roosevelt—done took them up there to Hillcrest! We didn’t know anything about it. And that was bad! And then, we went to the school trying to find out what was going on; they was just as ticked off as we were. It wasn’t in the best interest of everybody to just do that, sweep them up and do that. The poor little kids was all out of whack. Because Gerry never been out of whack; she was one of the ones standing up, talking about, “Well, we got to do it, we got to do it.” [Laughter] “It’s time to do it if it’s time to do it,” you know. But it was just so sad that somebody thought it was just okay with everybody to do them just like that. It wasn’t, but we had to live with it. So, they had more fights and things on the school campus, and even down the roads and whatnot. It was a hectic situation. We had one parent that lived out here, Robert Howell, he left Frostproof and come here on Lincoln, and got the crowd of young people. He stood up on that church step and talked to them, and got them inside the church so that they wouldn’t go try to do something that wasn’t right. And he





did that. And I was working in the cab stand down the street there, saw all the kids is watching, say, “I wonder what’s going on.” But, you know, it’s a bad situation when you don’t have nobody to help. But he was there, he was there for all those kids. And I say he really was on the move of trying to be peaceful with everybody. Course, he’s been dead a long time, though. That’s Jerry Howell’s daddy.

	B:	He taught a long time up there at the high school. W:	Yeah, he did!

	P:	So, people were able to come to the church to meet for things, and whatnot?



	W:	Mmhm. Whenever an issue came, that’s where they met. An issue came forward and you going iron out the differences, and everything. And the commissioners that was on the board at that time, they would come. The Whites would come and meet with the Blacks there. It was sort of sad that the Blacks were not allowed to go up to their churches as a whole, because when you cross that railroad track, you don’t know what was going to hit you. So they stayed away.

But they did come down and talk with us. You know.



	P:	And so the railroad tracks acts as a divider? W:	It is a divider.

	B:	It is, that’s why they say, “Across the—.”



	W:	That’s why it was built, the neighborhoods was built like that: so you knew your place. You didn’t cross that railroad track going towards town, or coming back this way, because this was Black town and that was White town. But we wanted to get so everything could be—because we had everything down on Lincoln. We





had all kinds of shops and things, and businesses. And after that, it’s just deteriorated and everything. And sometime my heart just aches to look down Lincoln. It’s nothing down there now. We had pawn shop, we had a tailor shop, we had grocery stores.

	B:	Laundry.



	W:	We had laundry. We had cleaners and—well, they had two cab services. B:	You said restaurant, didn’t you?

	W:	Yeah, well, restaurant, right. And we had everything down there; a garment or clothing place. The store that you buy—

	B:	Fish market.



	W:	Oh yeah, fish market.



	P:	So, Lincoln was like a Black downtown?



	W:	It was. It was. So, it’s just sad sometimes. When you stood up on that corner at that church and looked down, you were looking at a neighborhood. It was a lot of houses and everything, and every time a house got deteriorated or whatnot, they tear it down. Ain’t nothing now. It’s nothing. And it’s just—.

	P:	So, how do you think that the role of the Black church has changed?



	W:	Well, it’s—I don’t know, I don’t go to all of them, you know, and all the different ones that’s popping up, to really feel how they are thinking. Because it is the most important place in Black history. It’s the most important place. And if you a person that’s going to dig in and learn what God wants you to do and everything, it’s the best place to go, to the church. But if they’re not teaching the Word of God like it should be taught, then it’s not a good place to go. Because you got to





instill in the young people what God want them to do, and how He want you to be. And you can’t stray away from His word, because He says, “Word never fail.” It’ll never fail. So when you see bodies getting together, then all of the sudden you don’t see Him no more. The ministers that’s over these ministries should be like God want them to be, but after a while you find out so many done gone astray. Done gone away. They’re not there anymore, but they ought to wake up and finally say, “This is not what God want us to do.” So, get in line and find where you supposed to go, and whom you supposed to be with. Because as I read His word, we all are His children who, we mind and obey what He want us to do. But you can’t do that with—on Sunday mornings, that’s the segregated time in the—

	B:	Yeah, when it’s the most segregated time. W:	Sunday mornings.

	P:	Sunday.



	B:	It’s Sunday. They in they church, and we in our churches. W:	And these—

	B:	Most segregated time.



	W:	And these sinners that have a mixed congregation, and if they’re getting along, I think it’s a good start. If they’re getting along. And if everybody learn what God want them to do, and it’s not no picture show like Hollywood; everybody want to be on the act. That’s not what He want us to do. So.

	B:	But you see, we have so many outlets to young people now, like TV. Well, I remember we were coming up, one person in the neighborhood had a radio. If





something come on like, I forgot what, now—Amos and Andy—everybody was sitting around in that yard or in that house trying to hear that program. Because only one person in the neighborhood had a radio! But now, look at the television. And that’s what attract our young people. They get the wrong thing and they go on with it. They learn how to rob, and learn how to hijack, to do the things to the car. All that come from TV. See, the Devil’s on his job. And then, when the Christian get on the job—and I know I love the Lord. Very much. But if they not big, and “sinner, seed faith this,” it turns you off. You put on a Christian show, you don’t hardly hear a song, anything. I was watching yesterday—was it yesterday? Seed faith a thousand dollars! “If you don’t have it, the Lord going help you get it.” And the seed faith, when you get the seed faith, and you get the thousand dollar, you send it to them. Well how that helping you? [Laughter] Because all you doing is doing the—? And it turns you off. You get so tired of it. You have your own church to support. It’s better to give than to receive. Now, whom come first. You can’t get a certain listing. I never heard Little Joe. What his name? Joe, whatever, Beggins or—. But they beg you so much, and then you get up, just turn it off. If you have some, you could share, it’s all right. But what about your church?

	W:	Well, if one mean right in that particular thing, they’ll tell you to take care of your home place first. If they mean right. Take care of your own, your local obligation. Take care of that. But you know, we always did that in First Institutional. We tried to take care—a lot of us wasn’t giving tithes one time. And I was guilty of that, too, one time, not giving my tithes.





	B:	You know who started me to tithe? I always give. W:	What?

	B:	Willie Mae. Willie Mae Robinson. God bless her.



	W:	And after I married Mr. Herman, and I married him, he was tithing in his church in Frostproof. He was tithing, he said, “Well, we got to get our tithes in.” Because he was a member at Hilltop. And so I had Ms. Mack laughing at me one day. I was sort of down and out, and I needed a little push, you know, a little financial push—I said, “You know what? I’ve been sitting around here not doing what I’m supposed to do.” She said, “Well, what was that?” I said, “Pay my tithes.” I don’t know what I thought God was at that time, because as long as I had Mr. Herman, everything was hunky-dory. Was fine, everything going fine because I was tithing and doing what I was supposed to do with my earnings and whatnot, and trying to do with my doings, if the Lord bless me. I said, “And then I was in a rut, I was so tired,” I said, “I can’t hardly—.” She said, “Let me tell you something: as soon as you get what you got coming in, you pay that tithe first. You pay it first. Go ahead on and pay it first.” Said Momma, her mother-in-law told her that. Say, “You do that first.” So, she say, “All us’ll stray off sometime. But not necessarily, because you are stronger than that Devil through God. You’re stronger than him. He can’t beat God in you, so you just go ahead on and pay your tithes.” I start paying my tithes, and I feel so comfortable, at ease with I’ve done what I was supposed to do.

	B:	You grew.





	W:	And I know it’s in the Old and the New Testament. Some people just want to live in one of them.

	B:	We in the New Testament now. I’ve heard in business meeting to say, “We living in”—back there. And the New Testament, they just throw the Old Testament away, and you just live in—. Now, I had a problem with that tithe. I’ve always been a free, generous person. I put money in, and I never tithed. And Willie Mae taught me the one time, she said, “Ms. Mildred, if you tithe, you’ll see how you’ll be blessed.” I said, “I’ll tell you one thing, Willie Mae: if I have the money to pay my light bill and tithe, I’m going pay my light bill!” [Laughter] She said, “Well, Mildred, just try. Just try!” God bless her. She said, “You’ll see. You’ll be blessed.” But I said, “If I have the money to pay my light bill and tithe, I’m going pay my light bill!”

	W:	I had never, never had jobs that I made a lot of money. B:	Didn’t pay us back then.

W:  I made a ample money to He’ll take care of me and my kids, because from paycheck to paycheck it’s pretty rough. And you got six children. And when somebody’s not doing their part, and you the only one doing your part—

B:   And they weren’t paying you that much.



	W:	And you can’t depend on the other part; so, do the best you can with your part! So that’s what I did. For twenty-five years, Gerry’s daddy—and he just didn’t see it, that his family come first, or thought. So, anyway, as the Lord bless me, I ended up buying me a home. Ended up seeing that Gerry got to college. But she





did that on her own, because she’s smart enough to get in there and try to get some help for herself.

	B:	You know what, though, Cassie? She didn’t do it on her own, because she didn’t have a strong mother or somebody behind her. Even encouraging her that she was able; that’s what I’m saying.

	W:	I say the church really helped her, and Reverend Bowser, he got up and spoke. He says, “This is ours. She belongs to us. And if she trying as hard as she can, y’all better dig in them pockets and come out with something to help her through the association.” And they did. They did. She went to Florida Memorial, but she didn’t go on her own, just like you said. She did have help throughout.

	P:	As church mothers, what advice would you give to upcoming generations?



	B:	My advice was some way, somehow—first thing is keep God in your life. Never stray away. Because the Bible is true, and don’t try to change it. Read it, and if you don’t understand, try to get help and just ask God to open up your little finite mind so that you can understand. Because without God, you’re not going anyplace. You got to have God. And then the next thing, if it’s possible, a strong family. And the key word’s education, education, education, education! And don’t ever give up on education. If you have one degree, it’s nothing wrong with going to study something else. The more education, because it’s hard—it’s still hard for our Black children, because, don’t care what job come through, it’s hard for them to put you ahead of a White boy if he’s for that job. And you got to prove yourself, really prove yourself, to get that job. So I say to get as much of it as you can.

Don’t ever give up on it. I wish we had known or we the opportunity to have





education; fifth and sixth grade. And then, the teachers back then, they didn’t know too much theyself. They weren’t teaching you—like arithmetic and reading, that was about—what we know about science and all that, you know? So my saying is get education, education, education.

	W:	The young parents now don’t instill in discipline their children. They don’t. And if you discipline them, even a spanking, you not going kill them. And if you do, then you know where you going. You going to jail. But have them to respect Mom and Daddy in the house. And when they get out—and let them know the other grownups out there that you supposed to respect, and especially church house. You go in there with discipline, and don’t feel bad if somebody else calm your child down, or to tell them what to do, or even tell you what to do. Don’t go around want to shoot somebody because, “You don’t tell me what to do, or my child what to do.” That’s the key. Everybody—

	B:	Takes a village.



	W:	—need to be in there to tell you what to do: to do the right thing. It’s so many kids I noticed lately, because if anyone do it twice with me, come by, over where I am, going to the bathroom, they know they not supposed to be up that time. It’s a certain time pastor has set aside for them they could be moving. And you don’t be moving in mission often, you don’t be moving when somebody praying, you don’t be moving—. And he thought something wrong with people. They do this, trying to act like they got permission to go and do it. I said, “Well, that’s not right.” And get up and leave before benediction! And Reverend Bowers, again he said, “You miss something when you don’t stay and get your benediction.”





	B:	And you really do!



	W:	And a lot of time, something might happen right maybe before you’re dismissed, and that’s information you miss. And, so, these young people, they just don’t want you telling their child nothing!

	B:	Unh-un. You might get in a fight, because I remember anybody could beat us in the neighborhood—and you better not go home and say, “Ms. So-and-so say so- and-so.” “No, Momma I didn’t—.” “You calling Ms. So-and-so a liar?”

	W:	That’s the truth! [Laughter]



	B:	They would knock your brains out if a grown person said, or the neighbor or someone, you did it. And you better—if they beat you, you better go home and get ready for the next one. And the teacher? I got the worst beating I ever got. That teacher said something. I went home, I told Momma, “No, I didn’t do it.” She said, “Well, Ms. So-and-so lied, I guess!” You couldn’t do that!

	W:	My God. Things—



	B:	In your church? Black children in the church now? My mother had a wicked elbow. And they had them long benches in the church, and she put us all right on the bench with a, “You sit up there and try to sleep if you want to. You sit up there and act up.” That woman about knock you out! You better try to stay up, keep your—if you asleep, you better find a way to stay awake!

	W:	I notice in you dealing with those kids, and I was in there one night, everybody got a piece of paper. You didn’t have no piece of paper by the third time you practiced. You better have it up here. Computer and everything is fine. It’s





advanced, and it’s a help. Because I don’t know how to use it yet, but anyway, I know it’s a help. But if you get it here, can’t nobody take it away from you.

	B:	And we a older generation.



	W:	And just like your computer went down? See, your brains ain’t going down. If you get that there, then that’s fine. I looked at John Kimball when we growing up?

That boy could stand up there and do a poem or something, or speech, like an orator, with no script. Nothing.

	B:	He was an amazing young man.



	W:	And his mother used to say them poems long as I don’t know what. See, that’s by training them. And at the church, he was taught the same thing.

	B:	But you know something Cassie? See, with all this new technician, it takes away from them. They don’t work they brains. The machines and things work the brains for them, you know?

	W:	But I think it need to go back into the education department that those kids—I watch those spelling bee things sometimes? And those kids are being taught to use here instead of—even though computer helps them. Because if you don’t how to spell something, then it’ll correct it for you. But I don’t think they really need all of that, go in depths with that, until they get it here. There are so many words that I don’t know. I say, “Well, I don’t know how to spell that.” And then the computer will help you out there. Or then, we had to go get our dictionary, and make sure the dictionary was up to date to find the word you wanted. That taught you how to invest and explore; go on and get it. But I don’t know. It just seem like this type of world we living in now—





	B:	And see, we want our kids to excel more of what God want us to do, cause He have computed us. I didn’t know I had so much electricity in my body until I got this defibrillator. And I found out I had a lot of electricity. I say, “God really put us together!” And that’s how computers and things was invented, through what God had instilled in us.

	W:	You know, though, we had homework and things. They have all the machines, and the average child, if they don’t have a solid home, they’ll come home, get on the computer, texting, and they never think about no homework. We came home, we had a chore. If we was home, you got a snack, and you did your homework. You did your homework! You didn’t run out there playing, and when you got are finished with your homework, you had a chore. You did your chore. We had no television and all that. The average child will come in, throw his book down; he’s on the computer. You can’t hold a conversation with your children now. I don’t know what they say. They talk about they texting. My niece go, “I’m texting.” I said, “Well, text old Grandmomma. Go on.” You text all. I don’t resent them doing, but it just got them so—and they grades.

	B:	I know most of us grannies and great grannies cannot communicate with them, because we’re not in the know. Because I do that from E.J. In the know, I told him, I said—well, when I went back there yesterday. I went back to see what he’s doing, and he’s trying to explain to me his new what he had, and I say, “Well, how do you work that?” I say, “You know what? You done put me down. You supposed to be coming and teaching me.” Guess what he told me: “It’s my parents’ fault.” [Laughter] I say—





W:   And it’s right. They want to do what they parents taught them.



B:  I say, “Your father’s sick and your mother have to take care of him.” I said, “Now, you’re going to get your buddy to bring you over to my house,” because he knew where I live. “I guess I could, Granny.” He only ten, but that’s a start.

	W:	They are so bright nowadays. The kids are so bright, because they exposed to many different things that is in life now. We weren’t exposed. The most the Black children can say way back is church. Most of what we lived is school and church.

B:   Yup.



W:  You had no place to be exposed to anything, you know? Like I said, one person had a radio in the whole neighborhood, and all I remember they had was Amos and Andy.

B:   Didn’t know that.



	W:	Or they’d have Joe Louis fighting. And everybody get around the house; couldn’t get in the house, just sit in the yard, and they’d burn old rags to keep mosquitoes, make smoke to keep the mosquitoes from eating you up, you know. But a radio or something like that, we never had. These children exposed to everything, but they, many of them don’t use it in the right way, to improve themself; their lives.

And they have so much help. But let me tell you something: if you can get a child



reading. Reading. How many Black children go to the library?



	B:	A few, not many. We went to the library maybe about, well, back last year— W:	We better not go downtown talking about no library.

	B:	And so I’m trying to think who had those children. But anyway, I have to give it to



E.J. He likes to read.





	W:	If you get a child like to read.



	B:	He likes to read. And he would go into the school library, and he would pick up kind of books he like to read. And the funniest one he picked was those bears. Barber—something or other. Anyway, the daddy want to take over the whole situation in their family and everything. And we let the kids do what they’re supposed to do. He was always out front, and he end up getting the bad of it. And E.J. looked at me, he says, “I’m glad my Poppy ain’t like this.” I said, “You are?” He said, “Because I never would do nothing. He’d do everything. And look at him. He done got the worst of it!” [Laughter] I say, “Well don’t you try to be Daddy, okay?” I say, “You just be you.”

	W:	But you know something?



	B:	Quiet is kept the more we talk. What the Bible say? They become weaker and wiser. Now they wise, but they not as strong. The average young woman couldn’t do the work—I’m a old lady—that I can do. We’re strong, and we strong in mind. Had we not been strong, and really rooted and grounded in the Lord, how could we have made it?

	W:	Couldn’t have.



	B:	I’ve been—had to go and hide in bushes from the Ku Klux Klan, right there to my door.

	W:	We just stayed locked up in our house.



	B:	We were one time—my daddy, we had one building what we called, in the town of Mount Dora then, called it Stone Building. It was one building. Everybody called it Stone Building. And that old man named Mr. Stokely owned it. And





Daddy had his barber shop and Momma and them had the restaurant. But I don’t know what Daddy and Mr. Stokely got into it for. But my Daddy—we are like him—had a temper. And back in that time, he jumped on that truck and knocked that Mr. Stokely, hit Mr. Stokely. Now, you didn’t do that, because you know the Klan was coming! I guess it was about twelve, one o’clock; everybody in Mount Dora that could get up and go, we went, they had a place way out on the back of Mount Dora called Wolf Branch; nothing but shrub and stuff. And Momma and them got us all, and the Black people, got us all, and went out there and stayed out there in the Wolf Branch that night after Daddy and Mr. Stokely. Momma say, “Get y’allself, get you a coat or something, we got to get out of here.” And we went out there and slept in the palmettos. Right there in Mt. Dora, out there in Wolf Branch. I know about, they said, “The Ku Klux Klan’s coming tonight.” Everybody Black was getting out, getting in the bushes.

	W:	A lot of things happened where I lived. On the countryside, you can hear horses just galloping and galloping. You hear a sound like somebody was in torture. [Mimics pained sounds] Crying, up on—and my dad, we had—then I understood why we had black window shades. Because nobody could see no light through. And had a lamp, we didn’t have electricity. And lamp light, and then we’d turn down low enough for you to see to move around in the room. And the next day, you found out they done killed somebody, hung somebody, or to drag them through the countryside. And that was terrorizing to a child at that time, knowing that you wanted to live better than that and all. But sometimes, I try not to think about all of that stuff that happened, not directly to me but indirectly, in some of





my family or people that I knew. To let God come in and cleanse me from all of that, the stuff in my mind that caused us so much heartache.

	B:	You can’t dwell on it. W:	No, you can’t.

	B:	You got to let it go and let God take care, because you just couldn’t live with all of that. And they always made a clown, right up there in Mount Dora. Fruit season was down, and Daddy’s barbering was down, and they had this big—called Lakeside Inn; it still the biggest hotel in Mount Dora. Guess what we used to do there? Get some of them Black to come down here and dance, and they’d throw quarters at you. I was one of the main one. And it used to be in May, I believe, because they had the Black people have a holiday called, the 20th of May.

W:  20th, and back up in Panama City it was the 28th. B:  Barbecuing, and board games, and it’s a lot of— W:  It was freed, the slaves was freed.

B:   —entertainment going on in the town.



	W:	When the Emancipation Proclamation was signed, some states was on time, and some of them was later when they did it. [Laughter]

	B:	And I would go—Momma said the 20th of May coming down, and you know it ain’t much fruit season then. And back then, I didn’t know about people going uptown. I never heard. Daddy never went no place in the summertime, and Momma said the 20th of May coming down. And you get you picnic basket and— out in the Black town, you know—and all the food, and everybody come together in the park, and just have a great time. And Momma said the 20th of May. I had a





fellow, and we danced all the time together. [Inaudible 1:07:18] and I’d go down to that Lakeside Inn, and we’d put down a piece of dancing, and they just throw these quarters and dollars, throw these quarters. And I could dance. When I come back, Momma had her 20th of May, whatever she wanted to cook; because all them quarters, and dimes, and dollars they throwed at the floor, I’d come back after they done cleaned up and give that money to Momma. And Momma go shopping, and her table would be just superb. Every year I used to go down Lakeside, dying for that 20th of May money. And they just throwed—they wouldn’t put it in. Sometime pass a hat, but most time, they throw it on the floor. Throw it on the floor, they just throw it all.

	W:	Well?



	P:	Why, thank you for you all’s time and all this information. [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Amanda Brock and Jennifer Romero, July 11, 2018 Audit-Edited by:	Ryan Morini, July 16, 2018

	2nd audit-edit by:	Ryan Morini, July 4, 2020