AAHP 185; Robinson; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 185 Yvonne Robinson African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Ayana Flewellen on September 2, 2011 41 minutes | 20 pages



Abstract: Yvonne Robinson grew up in Jacksonville, Florida, and attended Matthew W. Gilbert High School, graduating in 1956. Ms. Robinson attended Florida A&M University, and describes her participation in civil rights demonstrations in downtown Tallahassee during that time. She later ended up teaching at Robert Jenkins Ellerson (RJE) High School in Starke, Florida, and she contrasts the urban and rural ways of life as she experienced them. She discusses her teaching philosophy and the strategies she adopted, and her experiences overall as a teacher at RJE. She also took master’s level courses at University of Florida, Edward Waters College, and Howard University. At the end of the interview, she describes her firsthand memories of and reflections on the process of integration.





Keywords: [African American History; Duval County, Florida; Education; Civil Rights Movement; Leon County, Florida; Bradford County, Florida]













































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 185

Interviewee: Yvonne Robinson Interviewer: Ayana Flewellen Date: November 5, 2011



	F:	So, I’m just going to ask you basic life history questions. R:	What’s your name?

	F:	Ayana Flewellen.



	R:	Where are you from?



F:  I’m from Miami, Florida. Well I say I’m from Miami, Florida. R:  Are you interning?

F:  I’m actually an undergraduate at the University of Florida. My mom, she moved around a lot when I was younger, so I was born in Georgia, and then we moved to Maryland, then we moved to New Mexico, and also to Tacoma Park.

R:   Oh you’re outside of D.C.? I didn’t live far from there in D.C. in the northeast.



	F:	My grandmother she actually still stays up there, Cathy Mary Flewellen, she’s still in the DC area.

	R:	I lived just east of there, Greensburg, and so I just moved from there, Ft. Lincoln. F:	Everything’s so close up there.

	R:	I love it. I miss it, but I love it in Jacksonville because my family’s here. I’m glad to be home.

	F:	I’m just gonna ask you a basic couple questions about where you’ve grown up, how you came to be in education, why you stayed in some of the experiences that you’ve had. I know you said you worked—

	R:	In education.



	F:	For forty years in education, so I’m fairly certain we’ll just scratch the surface of everything. Let me start by saying that today is September 2, 2011. We’re here in





the Robert Jenkins Ellerson Community Center and I’m here with Ms. Yvonne Robinson. Can you tell me a little about yourself? Where were you born?

	R:	I was born in Jacksonville, Florida; September 20, 1938.



	F:	My birthday’s actually September 28, and my grandmother’s birthday is the seventh—so we’re all Septembers.

	R:	I think at Duval County Medical Center.



	F:	Were you in Jacksonville for all of your youth?



	R:	Elementary school was Oakland Elementary School, and I went to Matthew W. Gilbert Senior High in 1950; seventh grade. And I graduated in 1956.

	F:	What did your parents do? R:	My parents?

	F:	Uh-huh.



	R:	My mother retired from the Duval County Public School’s cafeteria. My daddy was a Pullman porter for twenty years, he retired as a hitter, a longshoreman. A hitter was in charge of gangs; getting guys together with longshoremen. I’m the third of eight children.

	F:	How was it like growing up with such a large family?



	R:	It was good. There were times you didn’t have enough space, you had to chisel out your space, being from a large family. But the older I—after I got to be about an adult, I was glad to be from a family. As parents age, and sisters and brothers, it was great, because you had that support. When I went to junior high school in [19]50, my older sister went to college I think. So I had two precede me in





college—I was the third one. And my mother—they were believers of education, so all of us had to go to college somewhere.

	F:	So all of you did go?



	R:	All of us went to somebody’s college. All eight.



	F:	When can you first remember that strong sense of importance in education? Did it start when you were younger?

	R:	I never knew anything else but education. We always slipped the newspaper, we always had books to read even though we were not rich or anything. Just a believer in books. My dad being a Pullman porter would bring a lot of literature home from the road ‘cause he was in the railroad in about [19]43 during the war. During the war, they left a lot of magazines, and he would bring food and rations home from the service men. They would leave food and they’d give him food for tips, magazine, newspaper. And he travelled a lot as a Pullman porter. And my mother was always a great believer. In third grade, I knew that I would become a teacher, I wanted to become a teacher in third grade. And I would never hit my children with knuckles—with a ruler because they didn’t know their multiplication tables. And that’s why my teacher did in third grade, I said, “I’m going to be a teacher and I’ll never do that. I’ll teach them other ways to learn math other than rote multiplication tables.” That’s what made me want to become a teacher.

	F:	Do you have any other fond memories from elementary school? Can you remember?

	R:	Any memories?





	F:	Yeah ‘cause I know you just mentioned that one memory that solidified your dream to become a teacher.

	R:	Oh my memories of elementary school were delightful. I cried my whole first year when I had to walk to school by myself ‘cause it was a long distance, but I learned. Oh memories—we had May Day. Every May Day, school would let out and we’d do plays, and we’d have parts, and it was just wonderful. School was wonderful; always wonderful. I enjoyed school. It wasn’t as challenging as I think it should have been for African Americans, especially junior and senior high school. We had some good teachers, but as a whole there were many things I did not know when I went to Florida A&M, even though I was a good student. But I never had to spend a lot of time in the library, it just wasn’t required. Doing research and writing papers, it was not required. But I was a good student and I went to Florida A&M and made very good grades. Although it was never that challenging, I still wanted to be a teacher.

	F:	When you were in grade school did you get like a, I guess in the classrooms, did they have a strong sense of pride?

	R:	Always, yes. During my day, there was always a strong sense of pride in African America. We sung the national anthem and the Black Negro national anthem every day. We said the Pledge of Allegiance to the flag. We taught about the good things because the Bible was still in school. We didn’t teach religion, but we said the Lord’s Prayer. Most of all we had programs for Christmas—all the holidays—and we dressed up. Easter—you had those celebrations and the main thing was you got a chance to speak and learn plays and all of that. You had to





sing, act, you did all those. It was a good sense, either a school, a church, a home. And even in the city of Jacksonville, you had a strong sense of pride and especially during February. African American week? Month? February, we did a whole month. It was really great. Great pride. And that’s why I think it just for all of us and our families, ‘cause we knew that one day we would not be class. We could be anything we wanted to be. And you could live a productive life, have a good career, educate your children. A strong belief in God in education, and yourself. That was wonderful. But coming here, coming to RJE, was really a different experience being in a city. Yeah, you had all those things coming into a smaller town where everybody knew each other. It was just a very strong sense of community. Everybody knew everybody in the churches and they looked out for you. Very different than in the big city of Jacksonville.

	F:	How was it more in the big city when you grew up?



	R:	Oh, when I emphasize people, I mean it was a difference in the overall thing. We shopped at the grocery stores, we caught the bus and cabs and all of that; you had to drive here. We learned how to kill birds and squirrels and we ate opossum. They would have big dinners with five meats. I mean, there in the city, you cooked and you had your greens. You didn’t have gardens, you would eat a meat, a starch, a vegetable, and dessert. Here, you just had great gobs of food, everybody just ate all the time and they did more sharing. Not just your next door neighbor—it was the whole community, they just did a lot of that. And the few churches, everybody knew each other. The undertaker parlor. There in the big city you just didn’t have that kind of camaraderie. Of course on the block you did,





but still in the city you still didn’t do the kind of thing you did here. And then the schools you had so many different schools, and we had rivals with Stanton, from Gilbert—I don’t know how many high schools. They were much larger. Coming here, being such a small community, it was a lot more family-oriented, ‘cause everybody knew everybody.

	F:	Can you tell me a little bit about your time at FAMU? R:	Oh in undergrad school?

	F:	Yeah.



	R:	Oh, I loved undergrad school. Well, I majored in elementary education. I did want to tell you, in high school, one good thing happened. The Zeta sorority, they sponsored us, when you speak of my high school, they sponsored the young girls in the debutante ball. So in eleventh and twelfth grade at Matthew Gilbert, we had a debutante ball. And they had all the young girls they selected from Stanton and Gilbert, ‘cause we only had the two Black high schools. And we came together, our parents came together, and we had the big celebration to introduce us to some debs and then debutantes, which was very great. It was something you just didn’t hear of happening in the African American community. Now, they have it all the time. The Zeta Phi Beta sponsored us, and that was wonderful.

	F:	And you participated?



	R:	Yes, I was a subdeb and a debutante.



	F:	Can you just tell me about some of the activities that you did along with the debutante?





	R:	Of course our parents had to be involved, and they had meetings for the parents. I had to have an escort, so I had to select a young man to be my escort, and his mother, their parents, were also involved. And during the week up to the time coming, they trained us in etiquette: how to dress, how to dance, how to waltz, proper attire for all of that, for when they would introduce us, basically how we would dance and do all of the wonderful things. They took our pictures and they were all in the books. I still have my souvenir book from that. But it was the main thing of proving young ladies to, what you call, introduce them to society at sixteen before you go off to college. I did one for the subdeb at sixteen, and the debutante at seventeen—my senior year.

	F:	Were there other sororities that were sponsoring or was that the only one? R:	That was the only one that did it. That was the first and only one, at that time.

You must remember, that was [19]55, the spring of [19]55 and the spring of [19]56. Those were the first ones and after them, they continued, other sororities might have taken them on. But in Jacksonville in the northern area.

	F:	Did they have that sorority at the FAMU campus at the time? Were you involved with it there?

	R:	No. My oldest sister was an AKA. I pledged AKA. I was an Ivy but I didn’t go over; I didn’t make it. I did not want to do sororities. I did pledge AKA because my sister was, but the men in my family are all Kappa’s. My uncle was a Kappa, my brother, and my nephews; all Kappa’s. But out of all the girls in my family— nieces, other sisters—none of us did it, but my older sister did. Of course she pledged Alpha. I think she brought in [inaudible 13:43], but she went to Florida





A&M, too. And she became an AKA up there. And my sister was one of the ones who was her sorority’s to help induct her into that.

	F:	Were you involved in any other organizations, like extracurricular activities at FAMU?

	R:	At FAMU?



	F:	Yeah.



	R:	I was. I don’t remember what I was involved in. I know Future Teachers of America because that’s what I—that was my main thrust. I was majoring in elementary education. I was definitely involved with that. And, like I said, I was an Ivy, so I wasn’t that into social things. I was involved in the boycotts and the marches when Martin Luther King came and boycotted the buses, and the marches downtown in the [19]50s.

	F:	Can you tell me about that?



	R:	I just marched with the groups downtown, and of course, we boycotted the buses; we didn’t ride buses for years. You always sit in the back. We walked everywhere we wanted to walk. Martin Luther King came in the [19]50s and we went down. They let hoses on us, and I knew I couldn’t afford to go to jail, so when they let the water hoses go I ran back to campus like many of us did. We did that there and we did it in Jacksonville, too, with the railroad. But I was not involved with getting arrested, because I knew we couldn’t afford to feed with all the other children in my family, my mother was scuffing with eight children. But they were…they sent me off. But anyway.

	F:	So what brought you to Robert Jenkins Ellerson?





	R:	I interned here from Florida A&M. I wanted to go to Jacksonville so I could stay home because of the expense, so they sent me here.

	F:	What were your first thoughts when you first got here?



	R:	I interned here. My older brother brought me here when I interned. He finished college, and it was a shock. He brought me to the supervisor that directed for Black education. Dr. Shell, she lived right across the school in that nice house over there on the right. When you run into it, that’s where she lived, and she was Black. So I had to meet her at her home, and she then took me to where I lived with Mrs. Royal, and I lived with her. The other student was a male, he majored in history, and he lived there, too. So she had two of us boarding there. And I enjoyed it. I interned in fifth and sixth grade. During the summer, when I graduated, Mr. Thompkins hired five of us from Florida A&M—five teachers ‘cause Mrs. Poe, the third grade teacher, died. So I took her place. I was a third grade teacher and second grade; can’t tell third grade or second grade. I interned in fifth and sixth grade, yeah.

	F:	Now I know you mentioned that like the communities were very different between here and your hometown in Jacksonville. I know you said it was a bit more tight- knit here and everyone knew—

	R:	Everybody knew everybody, so they kept up a lot of drama, of course a lot of it. But everybody knew everybody here. In Jacksonville, you knew your neighbors, but you wouldn’t necessarily know them, but there’s a difference in that. As far as education skills—it was a good experience. I learned a lot about teaching, because when I came here I was thinking I could do units and had all the





supplies, but when you come to a town where the reading level, many of the children read below level, they picked strawberries ‘till noon—it was very different. Therefore, you provided a lot of services for these children. I kept food in the locker for them to eat. We had a cafeteria but they didn’t have breakfast at all before, even though you had a cafeteria. But you had to make a means and you could not teach them out of those books that we had, so I had to provide for them. I did what you call a lot of the language experience approach to teaching reading. So I had to diagnose right away, test to see what they like and what levels of reading they could do. I used all that from A&M. Florida A&M prepared me very well for teaching. I think even after all these years, I was well prepared. I had a lot of knowledge about what to do when I became a teacher. Had I not have, I would not have been able to work with the children that I met here. Some of them were very smart, but there were many that had not had the opportunity, and by them missing half-days of school many of them couldn’t. So I had to do all kind of methods for teaching. Even though I might have had thirty children, I had to look at each child as an individual to see how they could best learn. And I did that right up to the time that I was teaching teachers how to teach.

	F:	It seems as if you were, and a lot of teachers during that time, more than just teachers for those students because you provided more than just education for them, like you said you brought them—

	R:	Well you have to do. I’ve always had to do it. Even when I just left them, you’ve always had to do it if you’re going to be a successful teacher. I don’t care if they’re rich or poor, you have to provide that. Even now. And if you don’t do it





you’re not going to be a successful teacher. Most teachers still buy things for the classroom, and they still do that. It hasn’t stopped, but it was so much more because we didn’t have as much here at RJE. And working the five or six years I was here in this setting and to do the kinds of things with what we had, we did it. But we also had to work twice as hard to bring these children up, because we had so many who would’ve fallen between the cracks because they didn’t come with the necessary knowledge to get what we had. If you got thirty children and they’re at different levels, learning does not take place like this—it comes with experience and everything. And the children did not bring that, so you had to expose them to as much as you could, so that they would do well and be able to read and compete.

	F:	I know you mentioned during the panel that you had talked about how you brought in strawberries, or you compared one of your teaching methods to them picking strawberries so they can somehow relate to the students.

	R:	That’s what I did.



	F:	Do you have any other exercises?



	R:	That’s what I call the language experience. F:	The language experience.

	R:	The language experience approach. I took what they knew, what we could do, and relate to—we wrote books and that’s how we read. And then we could shoot off into other books like owned strawberries, but first you had to start from where they were. And you did a lot of experiences in talks, and we wrote stories, and we made books about those strawberries. We made things with them, we did





recipes. Therefore, children can learn to compute, add, measure, then we could read the stories. Then we could transfer that to other situations from the encyclopedias and all. And I did that throughout teaching, that’s the way you still teach if you want to be effective with children to bring them up to level. And many teachers still have some of these abilities, they just got other methods. Now, we didn’t have TV and all of that.

	F:	As compared to White schools at the time, did RJE—did the students there get more attention?

	R:	Of course. As I said, in the [19]60s, in the last three years, they deployed me to Stark. They wanted to integrate and eventually they were going to close the school anyway, so they wanted to have a self-contained classroom with an African American teacher. And they sent me to Southside Elementary, and how they got my class later on I learned that they sent a letter to the parents saying “Do you want your child to an experienced, good Black classroom? Or do you want to go to an inexperienced White teacher from the University of Florida?” And those who chose to have me in the first year, the other years they didn’t do it I don’t think, but I know the first year that’s how I was told they got my class. And most of them were professionals—the doctors, the florists. And I was in Southside which was an area where most of the professionals lived; your doctors, your lawyers, your florist, my vet, my doctor’s children. Of course when I went there, all I had to do—I taught them. And those children they soared, because they brought so much more. But their parents were involved—I’ve got pictures. We went on field trips. When I went on fieldtrips there were loads of





cars—all the parents were right behind me with me. They took me to their house, we made butter, we cooked, we did everything. They invited me to go with them to Greece. I had everything I ever wanted as an instructor. In the teachers’ lounge, not only did I have books and supplies, they kept food in the teachers’ lounge. I could get construction paper, crayons, pencils. I didn’t have to put in a list. Anything I needed they thought I might give out if I came into the lounge during my break time I could get. It was there.

	F:	So there was a greater appreciation?



	R:	There was a greater appreciation for an educator. I felt so professional—I did not have to scuffle. I did not have to spend my own money except for little trinkets. I did not have to spend my own money on chalkboard crayons and all that kind of stuff. Yes, it was very different. When I went to Washington, D.C. I was back in the same thing having to spend money. But it was integrated, but you still had to spend a lot of money because the children didn’t have. But I had parents there at Southside who would bring me everything the school had, they had much more to offer. But when I went to Washington, D.C., I was also met with the same thing. I didn’t even have a record player. [Laughter]

	F:	How long were you at Southside Elementary?



	R:	I was there either two or three years; that would’ve been my last years. I left in [19]69. I don’t remember, either two or three years my last years here. I moved to Washington, D.C. to get my master’s in reading. And I had a sister who was there and her husband, but I wanted to leave.

	F:	What school did you go to to get your masters, you said Howard?





	R:	I got my master’s in reading from Howard. And I was an adjunct professor. I came back after I retired from D.C. public schools in [19]95 and I was adjunct professor there. I did adjunct professor there for a year, and I taught at Howard University as an adjunct professor. And I was an educational consultant.

	F:	How was it when you were attending Howard University?



	R:	I was in grad school, it was wonderful. I learned a lot, I became a reading— F:	Was it a lot different from the South, I guess what you were used to in

Jacksonville?



	R:	I’m not sure this is the South. [Laughter]



	F:	That is true. For a lot of people actually. I remember talking to my grandmother not too recently.

	R:	Howard was very—like grad school was it for a minute it was a university setting. It was no difference as far as the location, but the quality of education they gave me was similar to what Black schools do. So I would compare it more with what Black schools do—they nurtured me in getting my degree. I had other professors and even though they were Black and White, it was a university. And it had everything, you could get everything at Howard University, it was a whole different setting. I didn’t do any undergrad work at Howard. I only did my undergrad at Florida A&M.

	F:	I guess like the community in D.C.—



	R:	But I also attended Catholic—you wanna know every college I attended? I got my master’s from there, but at first University of Florida offered in-service courses that we had to take. University of Florida, Edward Waters, University of





Connecticut at Bridgeport, Catholic University, Trinity University, D.C. Teacher’s College. I got a fast degree here at D.C. Teacher’s College, University of the District of Columbia, Blue State College—I’ve been to so many universities.

Because I’ve studied, I had to study, I have an advanced certificate. I have six hours above the master’s degree. I don’t have a PhD, but I was paid for that because I have six hours above the master’s. But I studied at all those because when I was here I had to take courses, so University of Florida they came and taught right here about new math. And then I went to Edward Waters. Then I went to Howard University and all those other places. Probably some in between, but I had six hours above the master’s degree.

	F:	Wow. So education just never stopped?



	R:	I still do it. I am now an education reading consultant. I do training principals, administrators. Now you want to know my job titles?

	F:	Yes, please.



	R:	I was a teacher, an elementary teacher. I taught first grade, second, third, fifth, sixth, and adult basic education, because I taught at Lawtey, too. GED, I taught GED. I’m a reading specialist and diagnostician. I was special assistant to the deputy superintendent of D.C. public schools—District of Columbia public schools. Don’t put Duval County, but District of Columbia public schools. This was Bradford County and District of Columbia public schools. I taught at Lawtey, special assistant to the superintendent. Did you have that special assistant to the deputy superintendent?

	F:	Yes. The special assistant to the superintendent. In the D.C. area.





	R:	And I was supervisor and director of reading for the District of Columbia. I was the acting supervisor and director of reading, and I retired from that in 1995.

Then after that I was, in 1995 to [19]97, I was adjunct professor at Howard. Taught graduate reading courses. Graduate School of Reading. I was reading consultant for Houghton-Mifflin Publishing Company. I taught people how to use their reading materials. Houghton-Mifflin, H-O-U-G-H-T, you’ve heard of?

	F:	Unh-uh.



	R:	Reading consultant. Houghton: H-O-U-G-H-T-O-N, Mifflin: M-I-F-F-L-I-N, Publishing Company.

	F:	You have quite a resume, you weren’t kidding when you said—



	R:	I was director for reading for No Child Left Behind; my last job. I was director of reading for D.C. public schools. You put slash No Child Left Behind. I did that from [20]04 to [20]09. And then I left and came here.

	F:	And now you’re back home, made a whole circle.



	R:	Back in Jacksonville. I always visited, but that’s me. I love love love education, and especially reading. That’s my specialty.

	F:	How do you feel about education now versus how it was? R:	I wouldn’t be a teacher.

	F:	You wouldn’t be a teacher. Can you elaborate?



	R:	On the—what’s going on now with all of the testing and the criteria of what, not only Obama, but the whole administration from Bush to the Obama administration, it’s too much emphasis on testing, and not enough on what children actually need. It’s not enough emphasis on how children learn and





making sure they learn rather than testing, which you need to test. You should always evaluate and assess children’s ability and how much progress they make, but you need to also assess and evaluate where they are with their strength.

What are they good at? What do they need to get to a certain place where you want them to be at the end of each year, a certain period? And we don’t do that in America. It’s too much politics involved with education. There’s too many people that don’t know about how children learn to be involved in their makeup. I would not be a teacher now, there’s no incentive. Before, all I had to do was love to teach and learn how to teach each child I encountered, or adult, because I’m also training to teach adults—they just don’t go in it because they don’t pass a test. You say, “Okay, they’re not qualified. You’re going to judge me?” There are many things out here that affect a child learning, starting from the child is conceived, pre-natal. You’ve got to start with the mother from the time that child is born, before they are born, to make sure they get the best care, food, and nutrition to come out being able to compete with another’s child that age. You’ve got your own take.

	F:	I heard you mention that you were excited to be here, especially after seeing the movie The Help. I haven’t seen the movie nor have I read the book. I know, I’m really behind, but I’ve been reading—

	R:	I want you to read that when you go home.



	F:	I’ve been reading all of the reviews on the movie and the book by all my professors.

	R:	You have to see it.





	F:	I’ve read newspaper articles about it, so I’m definitely intrigued. I want to see both of them, because a lot of people they either do it from one side or another.

	R:	The reason I relate to The Help so much because as a teenager I also worked at the motel, and babysat White children and helped when their parents worked in the summer or whenever they were off. And still, many of them, my first year of security was paid by a teacher that I worked to help clean and take care of her boys during the summer. But not only that, when you look at that and the way The Help would be treated from the things that I experienced here from racial bound because Bradford County was one of the first to go on to say, “We gonna do and integrate this thing.” But at the same time, when you look at the discrepancies all over the country in Black education, and what we did—the history here. When I first came here to go to two one-room schools in the [19]60s, I mean with potbelly stove and they still stuck out there with outhouses, in the [19]60s? It doesn’t make sense, in Florida? This has happened in other places, but you see the difference when buses came by from the good schools— air conditioned—and all the other children had to go to that school? The Help, and it was basically about the transition during the times when it was segregated and we went in the back doors and all. When I came here to go to the doctor’s office we had Colored and we had White when I moved here in the [19]60s. And I ended up teaching one of the doctor’s children, and I went and tutored him and he said, he couldn’t have me come in his White room, but when I went to his house I went in the front door. They invited me to go to Greece. I taught Theodore’s son in second grade.





	F:	Are there any other comments that you wanted to make before we, or any questions that you wanted to ask me?

	R:	What are you going to do with this?



	F:	Well this we’re actually adding it to the Alachua County African American History Project that we have a grant for, through the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. And they’re basically compiling all these oral histories to get this holistic view of the history of Florida. I personally love it, because so often, because my major is anthropology, and I deal with African American Diaspora ideology so I try to find the African American story.

	R:	Obama’s mother was an anthropologist. F:	I didn’t know that.

	R:	She had a doctorate, a lot of him you’ll see from her raising.



	F:	I like how oral history provides another side. It provides alternative history, so it’s an addition to this narrative that’s historically left out. I love being a part of creating it.

	R:	Alachua County, as teachers here at RJE, that was one place we could go over near the university and be in an integrated setting. Because their clubs for the children, we could come here. It was one of the first places we could go, in the [19]60s it was integrated in Alachua County by the university.

	F:	Well I wanted to say thank you for giving me your time. I know we just scratched the surface of your life ‘cause you said forty plus years and you listed and you said there’s still a lot more that even wasn’t said. So I want to thank you.





	R:	Well I was glad to give you that so you could see when I came here I had a BS degree. And the pursuit of education was so strong, of knowing more. Not only that, just to leave the setting where most of the children were White. I might have had two Black kids the whole time I taught. But to go to another area that was so metropolitan, so integrated, all languages, over a hundred something languages in the D.C. public schools, to work in a setting where there were so many—when I went to Washington D.C., African Americans made the most money, had the highest amount of education, and it was that up until a few years ago. And this went across the line to Peach County. So there was never a child I taught that I didn’t know. I had smart children, they were mixed, Black, and all. A very great experience. But this prepared me, and I’m still working—not doing much work, I’m retired now, but I do consulting work. And I will help wherever I can with any projects they have here.

	F:	Definitely. Thank you so much. R:	I’m tired!

	F:	[Laughter]



	R:	I drove here, it took me an hour to get here. I haven’t even unpacked my clothes.



It was wonderful. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Cristina Rodriguez, April 14, 2017 Audit-edited by:	Jennifer Romero, December 13, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 20, 2019