AAHP 080; Gant; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 080 Carlton Gant

African American History Project (AAHP) Interview conducted by Ann Smith on September 5, 2009

38 minutes | 18 pages



Abstract: In this interview conducted at the 2009 University of Florida Black Alumni Weekend, Carlton Gant relates that he was raised in Delray Beach, Florida, and describes the process that led to his attending UF. He discusses some of the things that helped him to be successful as a student. Mr. Gant describes having an open debate in class to defend his beliefs as a Creationist in the face of his professor’s teaching of evolution. He mentions his involvement in the Black Student Union, and other organizations and activities on campus. Mr. Gant also offers some thoughts on what UF could do to improve its recruitment and retention of a diverse and excellent group of students, and his concern that some of the programs that had been in place were eroding by the time of the interview. He also relates that he was part of the group that created the Student Nighttime Auxiliary Patrol (SNAP) on the UF campus, and expresses his pride that it is still a successful and active program.





Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida]







































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 080

Interviewee: Carlton Gant Interviewer: Ann Smith Date: September 5, 2009



S:   Okay, I think we’re cooking here. My name is Ann Smith and I’m a volunteer at the Sam Proctor Oral History Program at the University of Florida. I’m here this morning with Carlton Gant, G-A-N-T. And I am at the Hilton Hotel on, what date did we say? September 5, 2009. First of all, tell me where you were born.

G:  I was born in Pompano Beach, Florida. S:   And will you tell me when?

	G:	Yes, May 12, 1962. I was born in Pompano Beach, Florida, and reared in Delray Beach, Florida.

	S:	And, now, what was your, was your family both, your mother and father, did they go to higher education? Or what did your father and mother do?

	G:	My mother and father both graduated high school. My mom went on and got her doctorate about twenty-plus years after high school. After the kids were grown so forth and it was quite a challenge and a feat and of course we were all proud of her that that occurred.

	S:	What about your dad?



	G:	My dad never went to post-high school



	S:	And you were educated then in what town?



	G:	Boca Raton Community High School, I graduated from that particular school.



Prior to that school I went to a semi-private school called Alexander D. Henderson University School, which was attached to the Florida Atlantic University campus.

	S:	Now did you have brothers and sisters?





	G:	Yes, I’m the eldest of three. Behind me is a sister by the name of Cathy and brother by the name of Clifton.

	S:	So they were looking up to you about what you were going to do. G:	Yes, absolutely, absolutely.

	S:	So tell me what went on as far as your decision to come to the University of Florida? Did you have other options that you were looking at?

	G:	Actually I have an interesting story to a certain degree. I remember around 10th grade I really began to take serious the idea and notion of going to college and so forth and really worked on getting a better GPA, start studying beyond my normal studies that I would do well on the SAT and so forth. And around end of my 10th grade, early 11th grade year I went to see my guidance counselor and began to put everything together for what I was going to do. And I think on the particular sheet one of the questions they asked me was if you had three choices of schools, which school would you want to attend. And I think I mentioned Florida State, University of Florida and it may have been the University of Miami, I think was my third choice. And he said to me, this is really great, they are all good schools, of course they are probably the top in our state. He said, “But have you considered Florida A&M, have you considered—,” he named a couple of other predominantly Black schools and I said you know I hadn’t, and he said, “Well, you might want to consider those schools.” Yes, he did. And it was interesting, when I went home just something inside of me said, I think I’m going to stick with my first three choices, yes, and I wrote two of the three schools, which happened to be Florida State, and U of F, and U of F of course accepted





me, I got an acceptance letter from them and they had a sort of like a minority recruitment program where in your first year, being a University of Florida student, that they really worked to orient you toward school, so it wouldn’t be so much of a shock or whatever if you had not been out from school, and letting you know what type of standards.

	S:	There’s a lot of adjustments for anybody.



	G:	Exactly, so I really give kudos to those types of transitional high school to college type of programs because I mean other than your stepping up your game as far as self-discipline and academia, you are also in a whole another process of learning to take care of yourself, going to bed on your own, you’re amongst, well at that time there were 40,000 students I don’t know what the population is now, but that’s a lot of students. And you’re a number, per se; starting out for sure.

	S:	Oh, yes, whatever you were in high school is never mind. G:	Oh, yes, absolutely. Clean slate, clean slate.

	S:	Well, now, what year did you graduate from high school? G:	1980.

	S:	And so you arrived the following fall?



	G:	No, I started that summer. Less than two weeks after graduation, I started the summer of 1980.

	S:	Now did you have to declare a major yet?



	G:	No, but I think I already knew, I wanted to be a lawyer, at the time and what ended up happening was I majored in political science.

	S:	Wonderful, wonderful. Now where did you live, did you live on campus?





	G:	Started out on campus, I think it was Broward Hall, and then I think at the end of my second year I moved off campus but within the neighborhood, not far away. If I wanted to drive I could but if I was having car trouble I could still walk. Exactly.

	S:	Do you remember thinking that the rent was high, or do you remember—?



	G:	Well, what it was, it was a like a multi-story apartment building where two of us, myself and another gentleman, who was upper classman at the time, that was from Delray, the city that I was from, asked, he found an apartment, “Do you want to go halfs on it?” and there we go. That cut down on the rent, it made sense and it gave us a certain level of autonomy and being able to say, okay you’re moving toward adulthood, you really are doing everything.

	S:	You’re responsible for your own life.



	G:	Lights, everything, camera, action. Exactly. S:	So you stayed there for one year or several? G:	I stayed there until I graduated.

	S:	Good, good. Well now, when you got into the academics, did you know now that was the right field for you?

	G:	I’ll tell you what my introduction to academics was. I thought I was a pretty good writer, and I took my first English class, I forgot the name of the specific, name or number ascribed to the class, but it was English, basically. And I did one of my essays and turned it in and what was interesting is I saw all these red marks everywhere. I said to myself, “What happened? What happened?” And during that time I was not a typist and I paid someone to type it for me and I said to myself, “Look at all the mistakes they made.” Exactly. But when I looked at the





paper I was, Oh my god, this really is another level, I better buckle down!” But what was good about that experience was it allowed me to know that I was at a university and that what you had accomplished in high school only prepared you, it was not going to be enough, you got to take it to the next level, learn more and get it correct.

	S:	Well now did you feel like you kind of got your study habits in gear, and you pulled it together?

	G:	Absolutely, absolutely. I saw myself at the time as someone who was going to strive to achieve and so I know if that was going to happen I needed to get good grades, keep a good GPA and I had plans to go to the University of Florida law school. I would need a super GPA, I needed to stay there. I needed funding to go up and stay up. So that was the challenge for me and that was driving me and also, I had a lot of, well, not a lot, but I a few upper classmen who came from my area who I gravitated toward in which they kind of helped to keep me in line and encourage me and to say that one of them was already in law school and he and I connected quite well. The gentleman that we got that apartment with, he was like a junior, I mean no he was a senior at the time, and I saw the focused study habits that he had and that the gentleman had in law school, so I was like, “Okay, good, I’m running with the right crowd.” The right crowd is correct, absolutely.

	S:	Because I was going to say where does somebody that age get you know, get so focused?

	G:	I know, two weeks out of high school. S:	I’m impressed, I’m impressed.





	G:	Part of my orientation was, look to the left of you and look to the right of you, one of you are not going to be here at graduation.

	S:	I got that message too.



	G:	Exactly, oh, you did too? I know and I was like I’m determined to be that one that—right, exactly. I mean I didn’t come here and you know to be eldest brother and my mom and dad at the time had never been to college and here I am and I’m going home, oh, no, that was not an option for me. Exactly.

	S:	I thought “Oh, my folks would be crushed.” G:	Absolutely, absolutely.

	S:	Now tell me what was the social climate? And I mean you were pretty focused on studying.

	G:	Yeah, the social climate was of such that I’m not sure if it still has this reputation, but then it had a reputation of “This was a party school too.” And how do you balance party and you know, early morning world history class. I mean, and you’re 18 years old, and no one says “Go to bed.” You know, and yet, you know for things to happen you got to manage your time, you got to manage your energy, you got to become—. You got to exercise self-discipline. No one there to preach to you, encourage you, if you don’t get up, no one’s going to call you. If you don’t show up to class, no one’s going to pursue you, you set the standard.

	S:	It’s really different, isn’t it?



	G:	It really is, and what I found out was; I said to myself that I would at least wait for my first year upon the advice of other elderly people who said don’t join any major social clubs until after your first year, get oriented, learn the campus, see





what it’s like to carry a full load, you know. And then figure out what you want to do, you know, a fraternity, or certain clubs or whatever. Exactly.

	S:	Well now what were your experiences with classmates and faculty, did you feel like you were being helped or they were trying to wash you out, or—?

	G:	Well actually it was a plethora of experiences and emotions that it generated, some of which, that I stated with the English class was “Okay, you’re at the University of Florida, okay, you got to step up your game, you got to you know really produce here” and then second feeling was that of challenge. I felt challenged somewhat in my quote unquote “religious background” because I happen to have one particular course or class where the gentleman said you know “Whatever you learned in creation is basically a bunch of garbage.” However, excuse me for touchy, but you get the, and that Darwinism is the way, and I said, “Excuse me, sir, I respect you and I respectfully submit this,” I said, I said, “Whether or not you believe in God or not,” I said, “I happen to believe in creationism” and so it brought up a tender debate in the class, which was good, the professor and I got to know each other quite well after that and so forth.

	S:	But you were probably expressing what somebody else in the class—.



G:  Well, I kind of got a group behind me who said, “I’m glad you said something,” exactly. Which is good because I think what we later learn in life is that you’re going to have all types of people and all types of fields, professions—

	S:	It was probably an educational experience to have an active open discussion. G:	It was, it was, absolutely. It was just that, a real education experience, that not everyone is going to believe the way I believe that there are different cultures,





different backgrounds, and different expressions other than mine. And mine is not the predominant in every case. Which is a real good introduction to quote unquote “the real world.”

	S:	Absolutely. So now did you pick up, when you came to the University of Florida, there were probably a much smaller number of African Americans here. Now did you pick up any animosity or any rudeness or anything on campus from any groups as far as—?

	G:	Not that I can profoundly remember, I do know that as being a member of the Black Student Union, I think I was like the vice president, back in my day and time, of course, we were sensitive to issues that affected the Black students, particularly on campus, so of course I had to be made aware of those different types of events and issues. But from what I remember it seemed to be overall a decent process and all. I also was the University of Florida Freshman Senator and I was ahead of other organizations at the time and it helped to balance my view, if you know what I mean, even though I’m Black I’m part of the Black Student Union, being in other organizations that represented the even greater population of students from various places, it helped to balance me out and I didn’t just become just Black, or—exactly, exactly.

	S:	Well now when you first came here as a freshman did you miss your family, were you homesick?

	G:	Yes, to a certain degree I did, because what I would do is when different holidays would come it’s about a four hour drive back to Delray, four to five, I would plan to go and here again, with those guys being older we all had cars so we would





carpool back. It was going back to Delray, Delray is you know, exactly, that support meant everything. I don’t know if I would have been as acclimated as soon as I was or as quick as I was if it had not been for that support system. That I did not know was there at the time. Because the gal who graduated from Boca Raton Community High School with me whose parents and my parents at the time drove up, of course, we were friends and so forth, but I did not know that there were other upper classmates who had gone before us who were from Delray, and we ended up connecting up here not knowing that prior to.

	S:	You know now that it made a big difference.



	G:	Oh, huge difference, huge difference. Because she happened to be the girl that came up, you know.

	S:	Are there aspects of your student experience that you wish had been different, either how you had approached them or how the university was?

	G:	I want to say yes, yes, and some of the aspects I kind of heard today in the presentation that was given here at the Black Alumni Weekend both by the president of the Black Alumni Association as well as some of the other featured speakers, Mike Powell and others, and that is that I like that idea of mentoring. I’m not sure if every student, although I had a support system, has that or had that. And to hear today that they are pushing that and they are saying to we who are now alumni to become a part of that, I think that’s a bullseye.

	S:	Well, and that’s kind of what those upper classmen were doing for you.



	G:	I’m not sure if everyone had that, and the reason why I say that is because just because just like I was told in orientation that so many of them would not make it





to graduation they had told the truth. I would have hoped that they could have been saying that to scare us or to challenge us or whatever, but instead I saw that it was a reality. And you know and consequently I happened to graduate a half year early.

	S:	Did you really? And so when did you graduate?



	G:	In 1983. Because you can see I started somewhere I was at, I was going to keep going, I was determined, absolutely.

	S:	Now that was with your baccalaureate degree, is that right? In Poli Sci, yes, okay, and so then what?

	G:	What happened is, my junior year of being here at the University of Florida I had received what we call in the ministry, “a call to ministry.” And I found myself even though I was doing well at the time academically here and I was the head of organization, and believe it or not I worked also part-time.

	S:	What did you do?



	G:	I worked for the student union. I worked in the department where the people can check out music. I can’t think of the name of that now but you know, I think you know what I’m talking about. And—

	S:	How many hours?



	G:	I think it was like fifteen to twenty hours a week. S:	So that helped.

	G:	It helped me a whole lot, absolutely. So once I received that call, I began to find myself spending a lot more time reading the Bible, doing quote unquote “Religious things” and I would pray at night, “God, please help me with





academics because I need to be” [Laughter] but I quote unquote will say to you he did help me with my academics to balance out everything but and what that led me to was once I graduated from the University of Florida I got accepted at Oral Roberts University in the master of divinity program where I then met my wife and so forth.

	S:	How wonderful. How wonderful. G:	Yeah, it’s amazing.

	S:	So you went there and graduated in what year? G:	In [19]85.

	S:	My goodness, and then what did you do? You moved to—



	G:	My wife and I got married out there in 1985, and we moved back to Delray Beach, Florida. Our first year of marriage we did a lot of traveling, what we would call “evangelizing,” and then going to visit different members of the family and then we kind of settled down around [19]86, got a condo down there and I started working doing telephone sales and all of that. And then we started a ministry back in, I think it was like [19]87 there, and I worked for a generic pharmaceutical company that same year and I worked for them for like five years and got several different awards for that, and then we built a ministry from out of the home, simultaneously.

	S:	Well, that is something.



	G:	Then we adopted our first child in the sense of a family member who had issues and problems and we took that on.

	S:	How wonderful. Good for you. So you have one child, is that right?





	G:	No, then later on we then conceived and had two big boys, I don’t know if you saw them, they just left. One is fifteen, one is thirteen.

	S:	What a full life. Oh, my goodness, how wonderful. So as far as UF, since we are supposed to be talking about UF—

	G:	Exactly, we’re having fun about everything else.



	S:	I’m getting sidetracked. When you look back on your University of Florida education, what do you think in your heart of hearts about how well it prepared you for your career that you are doing now, or your life in general, or—

	G:	I would like to say it prepared me quite well and here’s why. The reputation of this school precedes we who are graduates. I cannot remember one time where I went somewhere and they either found out that I was a UF grad, or I told them that I got a quote unquote “negative response” or second of all, and what university is that—everyone knows. Name recognition is everything and reputation is everything. So I mean, I’m sure that helped me to at least get to the interview and then I had the post interview. And nowadays if you can’t get to the interview, you can’t—

	S:	And that’s a big step.



	G:	Exactly, and you know someone looks at your resume or your bio and they say, U of F and it’s a bad connotation. Certainly they’re not when there’s thirty other people they potentially can hire, no. But for me it allowed me opportunities that probably may or may not have been there. And so I’m very glad to be able to say that, and then there’s are an awful lot of other things too that is good and continues to be good. I believe for the university. I met some of my best friends





who of different, for lack of a better term, race than myself, who once a month we pray together. He’s been a major supporter in our ministry and even greater than that, he’s been a best friend. And he graduated like, I think like five to seven years before me. We didn’t meet on campus, we met later on. And the connection has continued now for I would say every bit of ten years now. Yes, so for the last ten years we are very close. Matter of fact, he just decided that I’m up here now, he has a son up here now.

	S:	How wonderful. Well now when you mentioned the size of the university, do you think that makes a difference in somebody’s success, and is a big reputation better, or do you think that’s an obstacle for some people?

	G:	I think it depends on the paradigm. A paradigm in the sense if you’re a lone student, disconnected and there’s not a system of support in place, this can be a very big negative. Because as we stated earlier, you know at first you may feel like you’re a number, “If I miss class does anyone care?” And if I don’t get into the social atmosphere and connect there then a kid could get lost. Fortunately, for me, and I do say fortunately, that was not the case and at the same time at a school this large you can do as many things as you like, as well as few things and not feel like you’re in or out. If you know what I mean.

S:  Yes I do. Well, now if you had the ear of the University of Florida administration today and they were looking for suggestions about how to do a better job, what would have suggestions for them?

G:  Well, absolutely. Sure absolutely. I think there’s room for improvement as we improve the quality of education and the standards of education, and I think it





begins with our recruitment. I know for myself I cannot speak enough of the transition time between being a high school graduate and being a first year student. Those, as you know in life transitions and how you handle them can help you determine your level of success and so forth. And for me it was paramount that there was quote unquote “a program in place” that helped in that transition.

Second of all, if a student is a minority, and I don’t mean a minority in the sense just from a race standpoint, because if a kid who was of a different ethnic background went to a school where the predominant is not the reflection in the mirror, so it has nothing to do with Black, White or otherwise, that there need to be systems in place that can be at least sensitive to those groupings’ needs. And with such a diverse culture, I think that the university does a good job, but I would like to see even a greater job done. When I hear at this alumni weekend that so many of those systems that I thought were in place are slowly dissipating and some are no longer in place that really concerns me, so if I had the ear of the president and the vice president, and the staff and the administration, I would want to see a stronger consideration and advocacy for those volatile times in a student’s life that we make sure that we, even though I know that we are balancing budgets and we’re concerned about a hundred and one other things, but I think the primary goal is to see the successful matriculation of every student that comes through that door, regardless of whether or not you know, they are financially fit and other things that all of us would love to see, but that we give them the platform to succeed. And that yes, we have the highest and the best standards possible, but we also have the best support systems to support those





standards. You know, it’s one thing to say “We don’t want to make this an elitist group or an elitist school,” but then when we go to our written standards and the way we do things even though we say we don’t want to, we got to make sure that that’s communicated. And at the same time balancing the idea we do want the best and we do want the brightest and we do want to have a high standard, we don’t want to lower it. I’m certainly not saying that.

	S:	But you want to help those that are struggling.



	G:	Absolutely, absolutely. And not just because they may be struggling academically or struggling because of their lack of culture or whatever, what I’m saying here is if we are not careful what we will do is communicate a message that we might not want to communicate. I can be the best student, I can have the scores, with the SAT for entry, or I can have the self-discipline here, but if I’m saying that because of finances and because of where this school is going, that I could no longer be successful here at the University of Florida, I’m not sure that’s the message we want them to send.

	S:	And not every high school preparation is the same. G:	Absolutely not.

	S:	And not every student learns as quickly or the same way as somebody else. Not all of them come with the focus that you already have, that doesn’t mean that they can’t achieve.

	G:	Absolutely, you’re exactly right. Because what happened for me is I mean, I’ve been in the business world, and I continue to be in the business world. I have three affiliated sites of schools of ministry going. I work as a chaplain for a





hospice of Palm Beach County full time, I’m a father and I mean, I’m doing multiple things, both business, secular, as well as otherwise and this school had an awful lot to do with that and the relationships I formed both here and since here. So overall I think we’re scoring an A from my perspective but if we want to get into the A-plus range I think we need to begin to hear.

	S:	There are ways to do better.



	G:	Exactly, exactly. In other words I want to be able to say to my son and look at me in the eye and say, “You can go there because dad went there,” and certainly I’m doing that but I also want to be able in the back of my mind, be able to say that that was a truth that I just told my son.

	S:	Yes, and well that was my next question. If you’re mentoring young people in the community or if you look at your children and say, do you recommend that they come here, or do you give them words of caution like you received?

	G:	I think it’s a combination of both. Certainly, I recommend them to come here, because of course, Dad is an alumni. And overall as I stated, I give the school an

A. But I think if there’s any reservations is I want to make sure that we are not communicating that this school is only for this elite group. I like the gentleman said, when someone shouted out, “Well, we’re the Harvard of the South,” and he said, we want to kind of watch that connotation and that imagery to a certain degree. You know there’s a positivity to it we know, but then there’s an elitist message that we are getting out too, because for certain kids who may be into the creativity side of things, they don’t want to—I’m not saying that they don’t want to—but generally speaking they are not looking to go to Harvard. They want





to go to a school that if they choose that particular undergraduate avenue, then that’s the right school for that. And if I’m saying that this is only Harvard, then I’m saying that I’m only looking for an academician in a certain category and if you fit or you don’t fit then get out of here. And I think the school is too big for that. If we got a hundred undergraduate majors and over 200 graduate majors it should fit for an awful lot more people than what we are hopefully not communicating. You know what I mean?

	S:	Well tell me what ever stories you would like to have documented that I haven’t asked you about.

	G:	Sure, one thing that I’m very proud of, I have been telling my wife I said, when I was here, I participated in this, participated in that, and she’s listening to me and so forth. And I said, well, one thing that I’m really proud of is back when I, I think I was a junior or maybe a sophomore, that would have been about [19]81 or [19]82, I said—I remember a representative from the Black Student Union, representative from the University of Florida campus police, Gainesville police and one or two representatives from the administration at the time, I think Art Sandine was the vice president at the time; Arthur. And we sat together and formed a council to where we would address the issues of security on campus.

And we came up with lighting packages and we also came up with what was called “SNAP program,” the Student Nighttime Auxiliary Patrol, and I’m telling her about it, and I’m like, “I was on that panel, we came up with this idea, because we did not want to see an unlighted areas at certain times at night.” You know, kids are jogging and kids are coming home from the library, you know, that they





didn’t have a ride or whatever. And I was telling her about it, she said, “Oh, that’s nice, I wonder if that’s still going.” So when I came to my silver anniversary last year, we were riding and all of a sudden this van is beside us and pulls in front of us, and it says, “Student Nighttime Auxiliary Patrol.” Needless to say I followed the van a couple of minutes until it parked, and I was like, “This is it!”, and we took a picture about it and we were so excited because here’s something that— we were very— and when she saw it, it put a lot of things together that I’ve been telling myself. We also started social service desk, what we called it, fraternity, I’m not sure if that’s still here. It’s called “Epsilon Phi Epsilon,” but anyway, I’m not—

	S:	I think it is but I can’t say for sure.



	G:	Exactly, but you know, those are some of the things that I’m pretty happy about and as I stated, it has been a real positive for me.

	S:	That’s wonderful, Carlton, thank you so much for your time and your stories. G:	And by the way, you’re a great interviewer—

	S:	Oh! I’ll make sure I tell Paul! [Laughter] [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Richard Brust, October 7, 2015 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, August 23, 2017 Final edited by:	Ryan Morini, February 18, 2019