AAHP 417; Irvin; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 417 Edward Irvin

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Jasmine Sullivan on June 21, 2016 1 hour, 2 minutes | 31 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 417

Interviewee: Edward Irvin Interviewer: Jasmine Sullivan Date: June 21, 2016



	S:	Today’s June 21st, 2016. My name is Jasmine Sullivan and I will be interviewing Eddie Irvin, Jr. Hi, how are you?

	I:	I’m doing fine Ms. Sullivan.



	S:	Okay so let’s start off when you were born and where you were born? I:	I was born in 1962 in Groveland, FL, 151 Cortez Circle.

	S:	Is that a hospital or is that your—? I:	Home.

	S:	Was there a midwife there or—? I:	Yes.

	S:	Do you mind telling me her name or his name? I:	Do you know it?

	M:	May Mitchell.



	S:	May Mitchell? Okay, so was she like a family relative or just someone that you knew?

	M:	Someone that I knew.



	S:	Yes ma’am. So, can you explain to me a little bit about your parents; like, when they were born and their background?

	I:	My father was born in 1937. Mama born in 19—what year were you born? M:	[19]41.

	I:	[19]41. She was born in Georgia. My father was born in Alachua County, Gainesville. He migrated from Gainesville to Groveland, from Groveland to Miami, FL and that’s where we end up for a little while as kids and I can





remember going to school there until they decided they wanted to send us back to Groveland. They sent us back to Groveland as kids to live with my grandmother which was my mother’s mother. And she told us, “Don’t get in no trouble,” as a child because we didn’t know why and she told because of our last name. So, that is something we had to grow up with. My father, he was a sharecropper. He did a lot of seasonal work. He built some of the buildings down—and did concrete work down in Miami where built them big buildings out and helped out with those. He also worked in picking plants. He traveled back and forth during the seasons. He’ll be picking tomatoes, apples back and forth to New York, New Jersey. My mother always was the mother. She stayed home with us, taking care of us. She was sick for most of my childhood you know so, that’s basically it and by the time we became teenagers my mother started feeling a little better. She was able to do a lot more than she had than when we were smaller but she was real sickly a lot. Other than that, they told us as kids growing up that they want us to finish high school and we didn’t do nothing else but finish high school. My father had I think at age thirteen had to drop out of school to take care of his mother and his sisters and brothers because during the time back then, so he stopped to take care of his family. I came from a family of ten and my mother also came from a family of ten siblings, so quite a big family. There are things I went through as a child growing up as I reached adulthood; and trying to make up my mind and what I wanted to do and undecided, tried to go into the military, went to Jacksonville and took the armed services test and failed the test and looked for a job. Then I came back home and went back, went





to Tampa, came back, end up going to Job Corps. Got Jobs Corps, that wasn’t what I wanted and I come back home. I went to Tampa Tech. From Tampa Tech I got into law enforcement. That’s where I stayed at until the time I retired.

	S:	Okay so can we go back to your childhood. You said your parents moved you to Groveland to live with your grandmother right?

	I:	Correct.



	S:	So can you explain to me what it was like growing up in Groveland?



	I:	Well it was a segregated school. The Blacks had their own private school and White had their own school. That’s just the way it was. I mean we had our own Black teachers and at some point during our, I think around six or seventh grade, they tried to bring all of us together and they did. But, from the time I graduated and arrived at the high school area because it just they clashed, Blacks and Whites just didn’t get along like that. Every year there was a lot of fighting going on in the high school, the breakout area, BJ 105 was the radio station. They was going in. Parents be coming and pulling the kids out of school and they’ll block the roads and teachers were locking the doors, school doors. There was a lot of fighting going on. I mean a lot. I think the best thing ever came out of that they changed from Groveland High School to probably South Lake. Stuff for those kids don’t know nothing about that.

	S:	So how do you think segregation kind of affected your education and from, you know, elementary school to high school?

	I:	Probably it’s just like any other Black student coming up. We didn’t have the books and the material that White kids had. But it’s an individual thing. You got to





set goals for yourself and you got to be the one trying to better yourself and I know I didn’t want to be working the orange grove and working in the heat all my life. That’s basically what I was doing as a child. We had to come home from school and work in the groves and fields and stuff and that wasn’t something I wanted to do. So you have to try to better yourself.

	S:	So can you paint a picture for me? Can you describe what Groveland looked like around the time you were growing up?

	I:	Just like living in one of those cowboy pictures or ghost town. Throwing that in there. I don’t know. It was Groveland. I mean that’s all we knew: Groveland.

	S:	So what happened when your grandmother told you that you would have to stay out of trouble did you ever wonder—?

	I:	My mother said that.



	S:	Your mother, I’m sorry. Your mother told you that you had to stay out of trouble.



Was there any question in your mind as to why she would say that?



	I:	No but as an adult and back then growing up, it always stayed with me. I can remember not jumping the head or anything, but I guess they was scared for us with what had happened because of our last name. Scared of retaliation or someone would mess with us because of our last name. You know, what happened back then in them days. Still was a lot of hatred going on and I understood what she was saying as I grew up to be an adult and started my career path. People used to tell me, “I can see it from the month of February coming around, Black History Month, something always be published in the paper,” and I would always would get answers, “You isn’t kin to that individual





whoever?” you know. So, I can understand why they said, “Don’t get in trouble by your name,” because of that name. I understood that. I understood it even more once I started working.

	S:	So just a little background, who exactly are you related to?



	I:	I am related to Walter Irvin. That’s my daddy’s brother but at the same time, Samuel Shepherd was also my Aunt Dee Irvin brother-in-law which would be my daddy’s brother-in-law too so he would have been a relative at the time too. So I should be kin to both of them, Samuel and Walter Irvin.

	S:	And so when these events were happening—well, you were around when they were happening but, when you were learning of these things did anything kind of like set you back or make you think about how horrific these actions were towards them?

	I:	No I was around. I can remember driving from Miami with my parents going all the way up to Florida State Prison to visit my uncle and I can remember being in that prison sitting on his lap inside the prison walls.

	S:	Do you remember anything else?



	I:	I remember being to my grandmother’s house when he got out. Don’t remember much about that because he died about a year later after he was released, so yeah, I remember.

	S:	How do you think those chain of events affected your family and their safety and their well-being in Groveland? In the surrounding areas as well?

	I:	Well, I think everybody focused on Groveland. I don’t think that’s accurate. I think just like you said, the surrounding areas. We tend to want to focus on Groveland





but that affected Clermont, Stuckey, Bay Lake, even until Leesburg. It affected Lake County, but they say “Groveland Four” and they put all the focus on Groveland and it affected this whole county. It just wasn’t only Groveland. I think that’s what people don’t realize, because we had people’s houses being burnt down five and seven miles away from here.

	S:	Do you have any personal accounts of racism?



	I:	I just explained to you about the high school. Yeah I have a lot of personal accounts.

	S:	Have you ever participated in any protests or sit-ins or anything like that?



	I:	No I haven’t did anything like that. Only thing I could do is try to make things better for the ones that were coming up behind me.

	S:	Okay. Do you have any memory of any contact between the NAACP and your family?

	I:	Repeat that.



	S:	Do you have any memory of any contact between the NAACP and your family or any of your family members?

	I:	I don’t. I can’t remember having any contact with them.



	S:	Okay. What was the community reaction when they had found out about the accusations against Walter Irvin?

	I:	Well, what I’m told is fear took over the whole city amongst the Black communities because they got lynch parties out, they were isolating for those four individuals but at the same time they didn’t care who you was, you were Black and like I said they would burn down people’s homes. So it was just fear





throughout Groveland, Stuckey, Clermont, it didn’t matter where you were. So, it was just a lot of fear throughout the community.

	S:	How do you think desegregation over the years has changed the communities that you’ve lived in like Groveland and Clermont?

	I:	I think it’s better now. I think the way they’re building the community is helping things. You no longer have a predominant Black neighborhood and no longer have a predominant White neighborhood and by living with each other in the same community. A Black person can know a White person for themself or that White person get to know that Black individual for theirself. Not stereotyping and saying, “Well you this way or you this way, you Hispanic this way or that way,” you get to know every person since I’ve been an adult. My kids have never ever lived in a predominant Black neighborhood. We had always lived in a mixed neighborhood and that way, they didn’t come up saying, “White this or Hispanic this or Black this,” they didn’t see that. My youngest daughter, her godparents are White. They kept her when I had to work. They kids came to my house to stay and that’s just the way it was. I didn’t want that division.

	S:	And do you think that because of those divisions it made segregation worse during your childhood? Like, do you feel like because it started off as segregated neighborhoods and then got into segregated schools, do you think that made it worse?

	I:	It made it worse, because you got one side of the town where just like you got bathrooms for Blacks and bathrooms for Whites. So yeah, it made it worse.

When you bring people together and people come in one, everything is better.





	S:	When did you first become aware of segregation and issues in civil? I:	I can’t remember the age. I was young.

	S:	Okay.



I:   I was young. Grew up with it. All this stuff we talking about, it’s in my head. I don’t have to read it, nobody have to tell it to me. I didn’t read no book. I lived it.

S:   So do you remember any community leaders in your community that were trying to end segregation?

I:   I know there was a lot of community leaders that are out there fighting for us all. You got Lewis Hardee, you got Tom Cool which is the NAACP Leader President for the particular area, I can go on. There were a lot of people out there fighting, stomping on that ground; trying to make it better for all of us.

S:   Okay. So can you tell me, did you all attend church in Groveland? I:   Yes.

	S:	Can you recall any accounts of how your church was? The atmosphere?



	I:	I had a feeling that church was a place where you go and you forget about the hatred and all that stuff and you focus on God and you just knew things were gonna get better. It’s just like a nuance. Roots or something, they singing those slaves songs out in the field you know? That was your safe haven. You know, so.

S:  Is there anything that in your life, whether it’s something physical or something mental, that reminds you of your childhood? That when you see it, it triggers a memory in your mind?

I:   Yeah. I’d say that. When I watch the news. Whether it be Black or White first some also abusing some victim or rather be inside of a prison or whatever. I just





think of what happened to Shepherd and the think what happened to Irvin because they was the lone two survivors besides Greenlee but those two, there’s account of them being abused and tortured and I think about that. In the prison for twenty-seven years. Had to walk through them gates knowing this the type of place where all that happened with my uncle.

	S:	And do you hold some kind of resentment for the people in the prison who were supposed to be protecting your family and instead they were abusing them?

	I:	No because them individuals. You can’t hold one or two persons responsible for what one person does. I learned that because I worked there for twenty seven years. I worked my way up to management and you hold each individual accountable for their actions. So no, I don’t hold no resentment for that. Those were just the mentality of the individuals that did that. That’s just in them. So we can’t blame everybody for that ‘cause I’m sure back then, everybody wasn’t about that but they was scared to speak out because during that time whether you Black or White, you go against them you gonna be dealt with.

	S:	And why do you think they were so harsh for people who were trying to go against them?

	I:	I ain’t gonna say that. That goes on today. That’s just not back then. That’s just the way it is. It’s just almost like a code of silence.

	S:	Okay. So was racism something you had to discuss with your children and if so, how did you explain something like that to them?

	I:	Best way I can tell you is I had a lot of hatred in me, but I had to go work somewhere. I remember my father telling me I need to get that out of me. He just





worded it, “You gotta work for these people.” Those are the words he used and that stuck with me for a long time and see I’m not a racist person. I’m not prejudice but things you do or things people say to you can bring that out of you. See what I’m saying? You can bring it out of me because I’m not that type of person. It will come out and I had to learn, I don’t know the word to use to compress that whatever it is. To go on.

	S:	And do you think that—oh God, do you think that your anger towards them was just because of—do you think it was a reaction because of what you knew? Not just because you were angry but because you knew what happened and that was what made you angry?

	I:	I say there’s some truth to that but, it had somewhat of a response to me of how you treat me. Like I said, you can draw it out of a person. I can’t stand to see nobody mistreated or do wrong whether you’re Black, White, purple or blue you know, but back then especially Black. Like I said were to consider the race thing, you can draw it out of me but I learned to conceal it.

	S:	And do you think your relationship with Christ had anything to do with helping you conceal it?

	I:	No I got Christ in my life later in my life. So, I’m not gonna say that. I was able to do that without that but I’m sure God always have something to do with it because he’s always in our lives but for me becoming a believer that was later in my life. I don’t have no animosity to nobody no more than at the time. They said, “It’s just the way the world was at the time,” the things that we had to endure.





	S:	And do you honestly feel that now the world has changed or do you think it’s just kind of like a drawback to what was occurring in those times?

	I:	I think the world hasn’t changed. I think the Bible is fulfilling the things we see happening now. God said these things were gonna happen and that’s what’s going on right now. The race issue? It gonna happen, you can’t change people. You got to want a change and it’s just some people just it’s in they heart to be that way.

	S:	So what happened when you were younger and these things were happening to you at school and you were experiencing these riots? Did it make you feel like Black people were any less of what they were or did you feel like White people were trying to portray Black people as less than what they were?

	I:	Well I ain’t never think I’m—they tried to portray us like we were less than what we were but couldn’t no one make me feel that way.

S:   So do you have any recollection of any of your ancestors who were enslaved? I:   No, no I don’t. I had a grandmother. Grandma lived to be how old? A hundred? M:  Ninety-seven.

	I:	Ninety-seven. My other grandma, she was eighty-seven. I had like five grandmothers living at one time. So I had a lot of history around to tell us a lot of the stuff that went on. But, no.

	S:	So since your youth until now, what do you think that you’ve gained or lost in the process of learning what you’ve learned and knowing all that you know now about your history, your family’s history and the world’s history at large?





	I:	I think I have contributed a lot. When I say “contributed a lot,” when we speak some terms regardless what you’re majoring in, I know you’re interning right now, or whatever career path that you take, you try to be the best at what you do and knowing the history I said you’d done told me that I was gonna work in a prison I’d have told you you’re telling a lie because I told you at the beginning of this thing here that I went from Miami to Florida State Prison seeing my uncle. Had no intention of ever being a police officer, correction officer, that’s the path that God led for me. See God put his people in special places for a reason. I didn’t know that. I realize that now because people in my job told me that I was hard and some didn’t like me but if there was one thing I was about, I about the [inaudible at 24:54] and I about my job. I was hard and I was fair. I was fair to the inmates and I was fair to the officers. I expected the utmost out of the staff and that’s just the way I was so I put myself in a position that I made decisions. That I was in a position that I could oversee and make sure no one got abused under my authority, while I was on duty. Don’t know what’s gonna happen when I leave, but while I was there, because of what had happened.

	S:	So how important was being fair to you? I:	Very important.

	S:	Okay.



	I:	You just being fair, that’s an inmate, officer, staff alike. No matter who you are, to be fair and you’re not gonna make the right decision all the time but as long when you think you’re making the right decision in the best interest of the department, the department is going to back you and that’s what I always believed in. You tell





the person something, you look into it, you follow up on it and try to get back with them. Harry McCray is Secretary of the Florida Department of Corrections, he said, “Your word, is your bond,” so should you tell someone that you need to hold true to it.

	S:	And was there any special routine you had to get yourself mentally prepared to go to work every day and be a great person, a fair person to everyone?

	I:	No, I already know that’s in me. I’m not gonna mistreat nobody. I expect the same out of staff and inmates.

	S:	Do you have any personal recollections to where you were negatively treated and you had to stand out and be the bigger person at your job?

	I:	Back in [19]86 it was. That’s when I first started. Like I said, you know, Black History Month coming around, new kid on the block. All them sitting there reading the newspaper said, “Are you kin to so-and-so?” I said, “Yes,” it come out of them. We tend to say, “That nigger shit come out of there?” Yeah it tend to come out and at the same time I know I needed a job. That’s when he tells me I got to work for these people, I got to learn to live with it and I did. But see, all that helped me become a better person, a better officer.

	S:	And how important was your parents’ influence on you growing up?



	I:	Very but they all want us to better ourself. At the time we had, well out of the five kids—there’s seven of us but has two deceased—but I had a sister who minored at Florida Memorial College. I had a sister in the University of Central Florida in college. Then I was coming out and I was trying to go down to Tampa Tech and you gotta realize all they wanted for us was to do high school diploma. They was





satisfied, but ain’t no college it ain’t for everybody. Well I tried and I realized that they didn’t have the money and the only car we had, my father had down in Miami, sister in Miami had it. My other sister, she was living on campus at UCF and sometimes my brother out here would go pick her up, so I was stuck down in Tampa having all kinds of problems down there with the job and everything else ‘til my mama came and snatched me out of school [Laughter]. But anyway, that’s why I ended up at Job Corps and went into law enforcement but they had apologized for that because they wanted their kids to become somebody.

	S:	And what do you think pushed you to end up finishing Job Corps and going towards law enforcement?

	I:	No. I didn’t finish Job Corps. I wanted to get out of Job Corps. I’d seen too much violence in Job Corps. I went Earl C. Clemmons Job Corps and that wasn’t what I thought Job Corps was about. I thought it was about getting a trade and skill and all that. I seen a lot of violence. To me working at a prison is just like being in Job Corps. Sometimes the judge sends people to Job Corps as a last alternative to straighten their life up and that wasn’t for me.

	S:	And so how you grew up, do you think that was a big effect on how you raised your own children?

	I:	Yes.



	S:	So in what ways do you think?



	I:	Well a parent always want more for their kids than they had and like I told you at the beginning that they never lived in no predominant Black neighborhood because I didn’t want them to have this issue or be stereotyped. My daughter she





left two weeks ago. She just went to her god sister’s graduation which is White you know? They came down here and picked her up. No, excuse me, marriage. She got married and so, but that’s just the type of person I am. I don’t see colors no more and one time I did, I know you still got prejudice of Black folks, you still got prejudice of White folks but not all people are bad. I mean I got my ninth grade music teacher she’s White. She was like a second mom to me. Crazy for her. I would do anything for because she was good. She cared about me because someone that didn’t do right in school, she coming to your house. It’s a White lady I’m talking about. You know, back in the day when you had an all- Black school, you know the Black teachers would do that. But to see a White teacher come do that? It was awesome.

	S:	And that’s another question I was going to ask, how did that make you feel that someone of the opposite race who’s supposed to be so hatred towards you actually showed so much love toward you?

I:   That’s awesome. Because I sure I’d give that love back. I loved her and my sister stay in contact with her to this day and she live in Jacksonville now. Tallahassee I think.

	M:	Who?



	I:	Ms. Mary.



	M:	Tallahassee.



	I:	Tallahassee, live in Tallahassee and we used to go over to her house because she cared about you. When you find people that care about you like that, your skin color don’t make a difference. Go a long way.





	S:	And also do you think it was the teaching of your parents that you know you’re always fair and you’re always loving to other people that made her want to love you that way?

	I:	Yes because see, like I said, we didn’t have the opportunity like most kids. Come from school, run and play and do things in the community we couldn’t do that.

We had to be home when he got home from work. If he didn’t come home to pick us up and take us to the orange grove with him, Saturday you’re gonna get a haircut, Sunday you know you gonna be in church, you going back the afternoon, Wednesday night you going to bible study. We didn’t have the luxury of doing what other kids did. We thought we were missing something, I think we all can look back and be thankful for what we have now.

	S:	So did you working in the orange grove with your siblings, did that have any effect on your work ethic as an adult?

	I:	Yes it made me not never wanna go in an orange grove again. [Laughter]



	S:	So can you describe a couple accounts of being in the orange grove. Like, what was the temperature like in—what were you?

	I:	Well we have an old saying about the temperature up under the orange tree is a hundred and twelve. When you up under the tree in the shade and in the wintertime when you picking things up, it’s like your fingertips just gonna fall off. And my dad tell you, “You better get them up.” [Laughter]

	S:	And so the oranges that you all picked was that just for our family or was that for your father to sell?





	I:	No this is for a company. This how they made their living. See this whole area where we at now? Everything you see when you come into Clermont, in Groveland, were never orange groves. All the house and everything you see here wasn’t here. The orange groves—everything you see, all of them were orange groves.

	S:	That’s a lot of oranges. I:	Yeah.

	M:	This was the campus. S:	That’s amazing. So—

	I:	You should have stayed in Alachua County then we wouldn’t have had orange groves. [Laughter]

	S:	So do you recall actually being in Alachua County?



	I:	We go to Alachua County all the time. We got family. There’s family up there. We got a family reunion this weekend up there.

	S:	Okay.



	I:	That’s plenty of family—your way down all our family in Gainesville.



	S:	Do you ever think that the racism in Alachua was more severe than the racism in Groveland?

	I:	I don’t know. They say Ernest Thomas was from Gainesville. Thomas. Thomas was from Gainesville wasn’t he?

	M:	The one that got killed? I:	Yeah.

	M:	Remember they killed him—





	I:	Yeah, yeah but anyway. I just stayed in Florida. When you come down in the south it’s just different in itself than it is up north. I just say it like that.

	S:	So is there anything that you hope that your children gain from the type of man that you are now and the teachings you have taught them?

	I:	Well, that’s a long story. They always say a man should look for a woman as a mother and a daughter should look for a man just like they father. So if they find a man like me, they got theyself a good man. But it don’t matter. I’m gonna check them out, I’m gonna investigate them. I’ma tell them right from wrong. They already know all this I’m saying. I got two biological daughters and I got two daughters that from my wife. They are truly my daughters. I got four girls. I treat none of them different and they’ll tell you he tough and no guy gonna talk to neither one of them without me knowing everything about them because I’m gonna be on them. I tell them about the birds and the bees whether they want to know it or not but that’s me so, yeah I want the best for them. Right now there’s three of them in college and it’s one of them right now she been in an accident and right now she nursing herself right now trying to get better.

	S:	Okay. Have you seen any positive changes within yourself lately?



	I:	Yeah. I’m constantly changing. Constantly changing. I worry more now since I retired. I mean, I see what a parent go through now. What we do to our parents as kids and then we put them through it and we don’t understand until we get kids of our own. I sit up nights, day and night, worrying about the kids. If they not home, worrying about what they doing, who they with. Those are some of the changes that I go through. I tried to do good for the community. I see me now





helping out in the community, trying to get a new sheriff elected here and the chief of police in Clermont is running for sheriff and I see him get re-elected and whatever I can do to help him, and you got the mayor of Groveland Mr. Loucks, running for commissioner one here for this particular county. I’d like to see him get elected because these are the people that are trying to help the Black communities, people that are trying not just for Groveland but the particular South Lake County area that had not been represented you know so, we just need to get the people out to vote. So that’s a different role that I’m playing now.

	S:	Okay. So what was the most positive and negative changes you seen involving your uncle’s life and the life of the community after his passing?

	I:	I don’t know about the most negative role, I really can’t speak on that, but over the last twelve years, the most positive thing is that everybody been trying to get their name exonerated. We had recently just got more family members involved in this area. I know of some of them is just know five things about this but some of them been on some journey for a long time and some just come in on a journey. We managed to get a street sign taken down and it used to be Willis McCall. We got that sign taken down and changed that street name. So we’ve been fighting this street fight a long time. It just didn’t start two years ago or three years ago. Some of them have been on this for ten, twelve years. You know it’s been going on since I’ve been out of high school, almost thirty-something years so this just ain’t started.

	S:	And do you have any memories of your uncle before any of this happened?





	I:	Only memory I have of him—I can’t remember nothing about him prior to this incident, but I can recall going from Miami to Florida State Prison visiting him.

	S:	And did he give you any kind of words of encouragement or anything like that that you recall?

	I:	No the only thing I can remember is sitting on the lap and he drinking a cup of coffee. That’s what I remember.

	S:	And that image staying in your head, did it push you to want to find out more about him or?

	I:	Well I did. I did a lot of research. I got newspaper clippings in the articles, pictures and different things you know when you see pictures of him hanging in the jail with the rebar going across there and the handcuffs and you scrawl and you got glass up underneath your feet. You know, torture. Trying to get you to confess to something that you didn’t do but he wouldn’t do it. He’d have rather went to death row and executed than to submit to something that he didn’t do.

	S:	And do you think that if he would have ever admitted that, they would have killed him?

	I:	Yes. Yes so, I think I got some of him in me. No, for real.



	S:	Always a good thing. So do you think that the torture had a lasting effect on his immediate family? Did he have any children?

	I:	No he don’t have no kids but he got a lot of nieces and nephews because we all see the pictures with the torture. We all seen it. Seen the pictures on the last side on the road, with him hanging in the jail. I read his transcript. A hand-written





statement I pulled up off the internet that read what his statement was and all that in his own handwriting.

	S:	And when you look back over those times, oh you feel like you would have been able to handle a situation like that?

	I:	No I’d have been dead because I couldn’t sit back and not do nothing. You know that’s the way how I feel now. Maybe back then, maybe I’d have been like the rest of them, scared to do anything. But this day and time? No, it’s just not in me.

	S	And when he was prosecuted and accused of whatever happened, did it have a really huge effect on his family? Was his immediate family put into a lot of danger?

	I:	Yes. I know they went to my grandfather’s house and they threatened to burn it down and the owner of the house who they were renting from got them by the ears and showed them that they were gonna burn his house down. Probably the only thing that saved them. But, I don’t know but I heard my grandmother, him and a few of them were thrown in jail. I don’t know. So yeah a lot of them were put in there and a lot of them had to hide. They were going to stay with other people. You know you had the Klan would come all the way out of Georgia. I mean they had to call the National Guard. We speaks about Ferguson. You know you look at Ferguson, the same thing happened right here in Groveland.

	S:	And do you think more people are now becoming knowledgeable about the accident that happened in Groveland as time progresses?

	I:	Oh yeah. I mean I read articles in The New York Times about it. I’m always on the computer printing up stuff so it’s out there.





	S:	And do you think it will ever be too late to reach a sense of serenity saying that finally that this is over? Do you ever feel like this case will be over?

	I:	I think if Governor Rick Scott go ahead and exonerate the name and before my auntie, which is my dad’s sister, his brother, father and my father, my mother, my uncle ET, before they leave this world, so they’ll have some type of closure that the case is resolved. For us as kids we gonna keep fighting it. But that’s the only time it will be over. Should have been exonerated from Governor Leroy Collins. They moved him from death row and committed him to a life sentence. From a life sentence to clemency. If you gonna give someone clemency you think about it. Why you giving a person clemency? You give him clemency, he should have been exonerated then.

	S:	And can you explain to me what that is? Clemency?



	I:	It’s just slightly politician when, come on you a legal scholar, come on now. [Laughter] Trying me like that. But anyway, it’s just like the politicians. Obama going out of office, there be somebody he gone give clemency to. He just released some of the federal inmates that were in prison for whoever paid the crime he thought it was. That they shouldn’t have been given that much time for or for something he give clemency they should have been found guilty or they were innocent. You give them clemency. Governor Leroy Collins gave him clemency but the state were too—old money were involved by saying “exonerate” and that’s what’s going on with Rick Scott and our Florida legislators. That’s why they overlooking this case. Nobody care bout no money. We just want





they name cleared. At least I don’t. I just want they name cleared. Not about the money, clear the name.

	S:	And how important do you think clearing your uncle’s name and the other men clearing their name would be?

	I:	When I say “clear their name” I’m not talking about just my uncle. S:	Yup.

	I:	I’m talking about all of them because see I had two uncles name that’s Shepherd and Irvin so, I’m talking about all Greenlee, that’s Thomas, that’s all four of ‘em.

	S:	Okay. Well thank you so much for your time. I honestly appreciate it. Thank you. If you wanna talk about anything else that you can remember and that you can recall.

	I:	No, I appreciate you all coming all the way from Gainesville to do this. It means a lot for the family members. Some of them are not here now but they mean a lot and when appreciate y’all doing it if it’s gonna help some of y’all or they going through the course or whatever research y’all doing. It’s well worth it because it need to be known. I mean just look how close we is to Rosewood. Rosewood right here on top of us. All of the stuff happened the same thing. The Harry T. Moore all tied into the same case. They were attacked because they were looking into this stuff about Walter Irvin and all that. That’s why they got bombed. All of this tied in together. Yeah all of this tied in together. Just put two and two together, it’s there.

	S:	That was really amazing. Thank you so much for that. Another question I have, do you think if you would have never knew about it—knew about what happened





to both your uncles and Mr. Greenlee and Mr. Thomas growing up, do you think you have had the same outcome growing up?

	I:	No, I wouldn’t have had the same outcome.



	S:	Do you feel like trying to get their names exonerated is kind of like pushing you towards something?

	I:	Yes because it’ll make the family do right. How can we be out there doing wrong when we trying to clear their name? Who gonna listen to you all the time in jail or in the paper about something? When you doing something positive and you been a positive role model about something? It’s all about networking, who you know. Not what you know, who you know.

	S:	Okay thank you so much.



	H:	So this is Diedre Houchen and I’m just continuing the interview that Jasmine Sullivan did with Mr. Irvin Jr. and the questions that I have after talking with Ms. Shepherd are really about what Groveland was like. What was that town like? I don’t know. You can tell me if she already went over—

	I:	She did.



	H:	She did these kinds of questions.



	I:	But I told her it was like a ghost town. H:	It was like a ghost town.

	M:	I said “worn horse.”



	H:	Yeah Ms. Shepherd said it was a worn horse town and I’m not sure if she covered this but, what was it like being Black in Groveland after this case?





	I:	Well I told her that we know we had segregation and all that stuff going on. The segregation, had Blacks on one side of town, Whites on one side of the town and it was just rough. We had riots ever year in high school and different things. We were fighting. They would get on the radio on BJ 105 and say, “They rioting at Groveland High School,” or middle school whatever. People come and pulling their kids out of school and was a lot of violence in the school system at Groveland during that time.

	H:	What was the name of the school? I:	Groveland High School.

	H:	So this is after the school was integrated? I:	Right after it was integrated.

	H:	What was the school that Black children went to before it was integrated? I:	Edgewood.

	H:	Edgewood.



	I:	Elementary.



	H:	Okay and did they shut down Edgewood Elementary?



	I:	No. That was part of the problem. What happened, they started using Edgewood as part of Groveland High School and they didn’t have the transport by bus during a certain period from the high school to there. That’s when the riots break out. Edgewood is in a Black neighborhood so they blocked the road so the buses couldn’t get through. The fighting at the high school it just, this went on for years. This went on ‘til I graduated, I mean you had to do this every year. It was tradition.





	H:	You lived in Groveland—? I:	Yes.

	H:	Up until what year?



	I:	Oh—probably about [19]87.[19]87. [19]87 I moved to Clermont.



	H:	Okay. How did your family protect—how did the Black community and your family protect each other knowing that the police system was not gonna protect you?

What were the ways that you were able to protect in-house?



	I:	Well, I ain’t gonna say they wasn’t protected. I think everybody there knew somebody and they had the chief there that knew all of them by name. He came over from a useless PD as a Black guy over there and got Chief of Police of Groveland and he became quite familiar with everybody in Groveland. So there were certain people that, if they went to your house, he knew you anyway; you alright or like I was telling her, he not a problem maker you know? So I don’t know.

	H:	So who was that police? I:	Tommy Merrill.

	H:	Okay and I remember at the Devil in the Grove event, somebody works for the police department. There was a family member—one of the family members—

	I:	There were quite a few of them.



	H:	Okay, who went back and worked at that police department. I:	You talking about Lake County Sheriff?

	H:	Lake—yes.



	I:	Sophia Threat.





	H:	Okay.



	I:	Or my brother Reggie Irvin. H:	Okay.

	I:	Or my nephew Reggie Irvin Jr. and my sister-in-law’s baby Anne Irvin. H:	So a number of people, okay.

	I:	Just not Ed Irvin Jr. I would never work nowhere but they did; my aunt and my family members all of them like that. No. And just like I explained to the young lady here when she was interviewing, I can’t tell you about what they did to everybody. But I’ve seen pictures of Walter’s, on a chair with glass underneath his feet being tortured and like I told her, Samuel and Walter is my family because that was my daddy’s brother at the time. I could tell you about those two because those were the two that at Florida State when he was driving back and forth. I can tell you about Walter being at Florida State because I was coming from Miami, a little kid, to Florida State Prison visiting him sitting on his knee while he drank coffee. That is imbedded in me and that’s what changed my life, the way I came up. And I explained to her and she asked me stuff about the kids, how stuff like that affected how you raised your kids and my kids never ever lived in a predominant Black neighborhood because I didn’t want them to be stereotyped and no other race. Or some other race stereotyping them because they’re amongst each other, and they know you for who you are and that’s just a way that I instill in them like I said I’m not racist, I’m not prejudiced but you can bring all that out in me. So what things you do or what you do to me, you can bring that out in me and my daughter, her godparents are White you know and as





she was growing up, they kept her when I had to work. Their kids came to my house. I don’t see that color side. I try to fix it so they didn’t see it. Had to grow up like that. You know, but like I said I and I explained to them that it was an issue with me, I’m gonna be honest with you. My father told me that, “You got to learn to work with these people and get along and erase that hatred,” and I had to do that. It was hard because the job I had, people always brought that up in February they were just like well you some kin to so-and-so you know just, when they do that, you start—like I said people can bring stuff out in you? You know but, I’m not a violent person. I’m not a person that’s racist or like that I just want to get along with everybody.

	H:	Miss Shepherd was talking about silence and that nobody talked about it. Her dad didn’t talk about it and Mr. Irvin Sr. is not talking.

	I:	Yeah he don’t talk neither.



	H:	Yeah I can understand. I want to understand, was that—?



	I:	Well that’s why we are talking because they won’t talk. I mean they might talk amongst us you know? Back then there was a lot of fear going on. People were scared back then to say anything and I keep telling—like I told her on the interview, everybody wanna focus on Groveland. It just wasn’t Groveland. It was Lake County, it was Clermont, it was Stuckey, it was Mascotte, it was Leesburg. These people burned people out of they homes. It just—it was Lake Kathryn, so I’m not gonna just focus on Groveland because it was Lake County. You know you had a group of people came from out of state. You know the National





Guard’s all over the place. It just wasn’t Groveland. It’s too much focus on Groveland but it affected so many areas.

	H:	Have you met any of those other families who were affected during that time you remember? I didn’t know that.

	I:	They would burn out? H:	Yeah.

	I:	Yeah. Stafford found my father had to go live with the Stafford’s. Me and him worked together. We were captains on the job together so yeah we worked. So it’s a lot. That’s why I say, and you the first person I ever really even brought up that well and I’ve been interviewed a hundred times. See there’s a lot to this story but that’s why I said it’s more than just Groveland. People were burnt out of their homes and such. People had to go find places to live.

	H:	If we wanna tell more of that story, of all the communities in Lake County that were affected by the KKK coming in at that time and burning down, how would we learn more?

	I:	I’ll tell you what I said in October. It was about three or four years ago. Gary Corcell, he came to Stuckey to one of them places they had this festival what they call Homecoming and they had this stage. They let him get up on the stage and sell these books and at that time, she would ask him questions. All these folks talking and man was they talking. They was throwing questions, “When this this and so happen?” They was throwing all them questions to him at a festival but see he was right up in the heart of where everything happened now.





	H:	How did your parents, how did your father make money after this happened and being run out of Groveland?

	I:	I told her all that already [Laughing]



	H:	You did? Well then, I’ll think I’ll close with, unless there’s anything else you can think of “oh yes!” So Jasmine didn’t ask about legal representation. Did you all have any contact with Thurgood Marshall? Do you call in the home and the NAACP? Any of those kind of—

	I:	Well now I know who represented them and never did have any contact with them. I don’t know. Did y’all have any contact with Thurgood Marshall, anything like that?

	M:	Unh-huh.



	H:	No? Okay.



	M:	Perkins?



	H:	Okay that’s a lawyer. I:	Yeah.

	H:	Perkins. Now, just a question I wanna ask. I am finding that a lot of Black teachers had connections to the NAACP and they were kind of underground supporting the NAACP and getting that work done, it was Black teachers who were moving that forward so do any of you have any recollection of—?

	M:	I don’t.



	H:	She asked me about keeping the community that helped out, their leaders and I got with Tom Poole because at the time he was the president of the central Florida area and he was that for a long time and I throw that name and I throw





that name out and councilman Hart which is deceased. Both of them are deceased right now. I throw them two names out and other names I just didn’t know.

	H:	Okay. Alright, well thank you. Thank you very much. [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Sandra Romero



	Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, October 29, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 26, 2019