AAHP 810; Watts; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 810 Bertha Watts 2-19-2021 Interviewed by Sherry DuPree on February 19, 2021

35 minutes | 18 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Bertha Watts, a Lake City native and resident of Tampa, remembers the life and tragic death of her father-in-law Lester Watts. Lester Watts and his wife, Bernice, were walking down Pleasant Street in Gainesville, Florida, in 1942 when two White men violently assaulted the couple. Although Bernice survived the attack, her husband, Lester, died of a gunshot wound. The two men suffered no legal penalties for their actions. Bertha Watts remembers how the family and surrounding community dealt with the tragedy during the time. She also emphasizes the importance of passing down family history to future generations.





Keywords: [Lake City, Gainesville, Tampa, Black history, lynching, racial terrorism, Jim Crow, segregation]



AAHP 810

Interviewee: Bertha Watts Interviewer: Sherry DuPree Date: February 19, 2021

	D:	Today is the nineteenth of February, Friday afternoon. It is 4:45 p.m. in the afternoon. We are doing a very, very special interview this afternoon with Mrs. Bertha Watts. And we are in Tampa, Florida for this special interview. Mrs. Watts is a part of the Lester Watts family and she’s going to give us information about what happened in 1942, March the 21st of 1942 in the evening in Gainesville, Florida. And I won’t give you more of that. We’ll talk as we go through. Mrs.

Watts, would you give me your full name?



	W:	Yes, it’s Betha L. Watts.



	D:	Okay, Betha L. Watts. All right. And Mrs. Watts just had a birthday! W:	Yes.

	D:	Her birthday was two days ago. So, she just had a fabulous time with her family and friends who came to help her celebrate her birthday. So, I’m saying happy birthday as well as for the interview that is about to take place at this time. All right, you’ve given us your full name. Mrs. Watts, could you give us a little background information about yourself? Where were you born and your parent’s name and a little bit about your early marriage?

	W:	Well, I was born in Lake City, Florida, in the country in a little town called Kabuble City, 1941. I was raised in Lake City up until twelve years old, and then my parents divorced, and my mother moved to Gainesville. And that’s where I went to high school and I met my husband, Johnny L. Watts, and we were married in 1958. And we stayed there for a while and then we moved down to Saint Petersburg, Florida. I finished high school there and then I went to college in Saint Petersburg, Florida. I went to college to be a registered nurse and now





I’m retired, of course. I still do volunteer work, so that never leaves your system. And so, I volunteer for a church as a faith community nurse. I take blood pressures, give shots, do blood banks, have the blood bank come to our church and the operation donates for us. So, I keep busy.

	D:	Can you give us the name of your church? W:	Southern Coast Cathedral.

	D:	And where is that located in Tampa? Give us the address.



	W:	It’s off of 62nd Avenue North. And our pastor’s name is Reverend Tim Sunday.



So, I’ve been there for about forty years.



	D:	Wonderful, so you and your husband were both there during his lifetime? W:	Yeah.

	D:	If you would, would you tell me your relationship to Lester Watts.



	W:	Well, he would be my father-in-law, that’s my husband’s father. And he never knew his father because he was four years old when his father was killed, so he don’t remember. He say he can vaguely remember anything about him.

	D:	So, the information that you’re sharing is based on the mother sharing the information with you and family members talking about what happened to Lester Watts in 1942?

	W:	Right.



	D:	And I’m sure you’ve had a lot of people in the family to talk about it and friends and others in the community.

	W:	Oh yes.





	D:	To share what happened to Lester in 1942 on March the 23rd. Lester was married to Bernice Rhodes in Gainesville. And then Lester, we have his draft card so the date he was in the Army was October the 16th of 1940. He described himself as weighing a hundred and forty-five pounds, five feet six inches tall with a dark complexion and black eyes and hair. And at that time, he was a farmer for Walter Douglass. And he lived in the Gainesville area with his wife and of course, they had children as well. But now we got to move up to the story that was on March 21st of 1942 around what they call 9:30 in the evening, Lester and his wife, Bernice Watts, they were walking on South Pleasant Street here in Gainesville.

	W:	Mmhm.



	D:	Near University Avenue. And they were confronted by Garlan McRay, who was thirty years of age, and T.J. Watson, who was seventeen years of age.

	W:	Wow.



	D:	Garlan McRay, I looked him up and Garlan McRay lived here in Gainesville with his family, and he was an adopted child to the family that he was living with. But he was in Gainesville and then T.J. Watson was from Levy County in the Sumpter area and had lived there for the early part of his life. These were the two White men that killed Lester.

	W:	Mmhm.



	D:	And so that background needs to be known. Now going back just a moment to Garlan McRay, I told you that he was a stepson, yes, and he was a stepson of WA Cruz. WA Cruz, Cruz’s wife’s name was Mary. Cruz was a carpenter here in Gainesville and had spent many years in the military also. Now, we don’t know





quite how he adopted Garland McGray, but anyway, he was considered the stepson to the Cruz family. And on the Watson family, I found very little information other than the Levy County White living in Sumpter, which is very close to Rosewood—just three miles from Rosewood. So, these were the two men and the altercation occurred, it’s said, and the men shot. We don’t know, they said men because they didn’t give one credit or the other, shot Lester. And the family believes that it was racially motivated. It was a racially motivated killing that occurred. And of course, during that time there was segregation, because we were in the Jim Crow era still. And of course, there was sort of like juke joints and other things in the area not too far away, so that many of the military men and others and people would be walking the streets in that particular area. So, we wanted to make sure that we kind of understood that it was a murder, yes. It was a murder. And of course, the murder went to the circuit court and then the gentlemen were exonerated. They were exonerated according to the criminal records and dockets that we’ve been able to see. And then the family members believed also that this was something that happened that they couldn’t fight at that moment. But then Watson was exonerated and according to the records, he was able to go on into the military.

	W:	Wow, wow.



	D:	And then you had Garlan McRay and of course, it says that he was sentenced to five years for manslaughter. And this was done and of course after he was given the five years he was released on bond on May twenty-fourth. So, he didn’t serve any time. But the rest was done and went through the process of saying that this





was all fair. And he was cleared in 1942. So, McRay didn’t serve any part of his time and of course, Watson didn’t serve any time either. So, this is sort of the background as to what has occurred, and we definitely need your input here to get a different perspective. This is from documents that we’ve been able to pick up and to evaluate to find out a little bit about the situation.

	W:	Right. Well, my granny, she told us that they were downtown and that the guys confronted them and when they shot her husband, he told her, he said, “Run Bernice!” Because they probably wanted to shoot her too because she was an eyewitness. And so, she ran and she didn’t know whether he was dead or not because she had to get out of the way because she was just afraid for her life. So, she ran and then they told her later on that he had passed away. So, she said—

	D:	The wife ran when they shot. W:	Right.

	D:	And the husband told her to run.



	W:	And she heard a bullet go past her head. D:	Oh gosh!

	W:	It was just that close. It was so devastating. And on top of that she had four children.

	D:	That’s true.



	W:	At that time, it was her taking care of children and her family [inaudible 11:07]. D:	I’m going to ask you to sit back a little bit, I’m not getting most of your face. Now

I’m getting your face. Thank you.





	W:	So anyway, she said, “I’m not going to leave.” She was a very high performer and she said, “I’m not taking my children up the street, the Lord is going to help me raise these children.” And when me and my husband married, we moved into her Florida house. She bought this piece of land and was paying on it and moved from a small house. So, she had her eyes closed for Mr. Ward.

	D:	Yes, Attorney Ward here in Gainesville. W:	Yeah.

	D:	Yeah, Ward was also a lawyer at UF, too. He was a teacher over there.



	W:	Mmhm, because when we married, I would help her. She come home from work. She was working for a place out near the university keeping check and cleaning the house. And then she come home from work and cook and then she’d have a basket of clothes from Mr. Ward to iron. So, I would help her iron these shirts because she was up in age and I was young, I was like eighteen, and I would help her. And that’s how she paid for her whole property that was out there in southeast Gainesville. She was a hard-working lady.

	D:	Do you have an address for her home? W:	Yes, 1228 Southeast 4th Place.

	D:	1220?



	W:	1228.



	D:	Mmhm, in Gainesville.



	W:	Mmhm. A nice piece of property there.



	D:	Very nice. And where did the children go to school? Where did your husband go to school in Gainesville?





	W:	Well, the children went to Williams Elementary and then Lincoln High School. D:	And they attending high school in Gainesville?

	W:	Mmhm, Lincoln High School.



	D:	So, they all were able to complete school in Gainesville? W:	Right.

	D:	And tell me a little bit about the mother because I understand that she was a gospel singer.

	W:	Oh, yes ma’am she was. When we married and when we moved to Gainesville out of Saint Pete, we wanted to help everybody, and we found out that we had to always call because we go because she was out—every Saturday she was singin’ at somebody’s funeral, or she was singing at a group. All over Gainesville. And you mentioned Bernice and she was somewhere singing. And they had a little group, I can’t remember what it’s called now but her and another group of ladies would go around to different places singing. They had a singing group.

	D:	Mmhmm, and would you give me the name of the church? I know it’s a Baptist Church.

	W:	Spring Hill Baptist Church.



	D:	Spring Hill Baptist Church here in Gainesville. Mmhmm, that was her membership there. And the singing and the gospel and so forth really kept her doing the things of raising these four children without her husband and maintaining the house and takin’ care of other people’s work. You know, that was beautiful that she was able to do all of these things and yet be a lady of character in the community.





	W:	Right, right. Yeah. She had everybody around her. Sweet lady, I’m telling you. You mention her name, they knew her because of her singing. I mean, we go home, we go to her church sometimes because my husband grew up in that church.

	D:	Yes.



	W:	So, we really enjoyed her. And then in later years got married to a deacon pastor. D:	And she married who?

	W:	We call him Deacon Dad. He was a deacon at the church here in Spring Hill and she married him in later years, and they didn’t have any children, it was late when she got married to him. But he had two children and he lost a daughter during that time. He has a son that’s living now.

	D:	I see. Does she ever talk about what happened with Lester to the family and friends?

	W:	No, not really. The family talks about it and everything.



	D:	Did she get any compensation from the government or from— W:	No.

	D:	From the city, from the state or anything for the loss of his life? W:	Nothing. She didn’t get nothing from ‘em.

	D:	Well, at that time there wasn’t any—she didn’t receive anything to help raise the children or anything?

	W:	No, unh-uh.



	D:	That was the standard of times in this area? W:	Right.





	D:	Mmhm. Did she ever receive any apologies from anybody?



W:  No. Nope. We asked her about that. She said no, she hasn’t heard nothing from ‘em. No family—

D:  Nothing from the state of Florida or nothing from Gainesville, Alachua County, or anything?

	W:	No. No.



	D:	No. Well now, where is Mr. Lester buried?



W:  He’s buried out in the family—out in—What is it called? In the Archer Community where she grew up and went to church, you know how some churches have their own graveyard? That’s where—

	D:	Yes. And in Archer you have Saint Peter and then you have also Pleasant Place, which is over in the Jonesville area. Lot of churches out there. Mmhmm, so he’s buried in one of those cemeteries?

	W:	Right, right. They all have spots; they all have plots and most of the family is buried out there.

	D:	I’m thinking it’s Saint Peter’s because that’s Missionary Baptist, and the church that she was in, Spring Hill, is Baptist.

	W:	Right, right.



	D:	Okay, we gotta look for that and find his gravestone out there. W:	Mmhm.

	D:	Because we do need to have that as a part of history, to look at the location of his burial spot. Was he a member of any organizations? I know he was a farmer.

	W:	Oh, I don’t know. I don’t think so. I don’t think he was.





	D:	Well, I know out in Archer they had the farming community organizations. Those farmers helped each other.

	W:	Yes, yes.



	D:	One of the farming groups just had a one-hundred-year anniversary. W:	Oh?

	D:	Yes. So, I feel that he probably was a part of those organizations that the farmers put together. Because they had to help each other in order to survive.

	W:	That’s right.



	D:	They shared equipment, they shared worktime together. W:	Sure did.

	D:	They helped each other with their crops. So, there was a lot of interaction out there among the farmers.

	W:	Right. I remember growing up my dad was a farmer in Lake City, and everybody would come together and help each other. That’s how they survived, because they couldn’t do it by themselves. And every year, the Fourth of July they would all come together and have a picnic. I don’t know, because I remember my little brother, he was killed the third of July. His cousin shot him. And they were getting ready to have the big picnic where all of them farmers come together. It was happening the next day. They got him to go out and catch fish at the fishpond. As a little girl, I thought, oh that was so nice. Had sodas and all. Being in the country, we didn’t have all that available. [Laughter] And we just had a good time, I’m telling you.

	D:	And so that was around the Fourth of July every year?





	W:	Mmhm.



	D:	Any other holidays that you all remember that they celebrated? W:	Labor Day, they celebrated Labor Day also.

	D:	Yes, that was always a big holiday, and they have a lot of their harvest brought in and you would share the foods and such from the harvest.

	W:	Right.



	D:	They would bring pecans to all kinds of vegetables and meats. And then you also had hog killing out there.

	W:	Oh, yeah.



	D:	That’s another one that I’m very familiar with because I did a study out there. And they come together and take care of killing the hogs and everybody would join.

	W:	I’m telling you, yeah, because my brother worked at—What do you call it? Where they process the hogs and stuff. He worked there, I was really little, I was in the country and that’s where he worked at.

	D:	Mmhm. Well, I wanted to change just a wee bit. I’m going to ask you when you go check on your family pictures, is there a picture of Lester in the pictures, you think?

	W:	No, we don’t have a picture of him.



	D:	You don’t have a picture, mmhmm. No pictures at all? Nothing through the schools or anywhere? Because a lot of times the schools made pictures for— mmhm.





	W:	Right. I wish we did. When me and my husband got married, I asked him, I said, “Have you ever seen your dad?” He said, “No, I can’t remember him. We didn’t have a picture.” So, I guess—

	D:	That happened and during that time people weren’t making pictures like now. W:	They were hard to come by.

	D:	Absolutely. So, they didn’t have any pictures. Did they have anything at all that was saved of his? Maybe a watch or any item that he may have had.

	W:	I don’t think so. I can’t remember. She didn’t say anything about that, like his military uniform or whatever. But she didn’t say anything about that.

	D:	Anything about any of the foods that he enjoyed eating?



	W:	No. He had brothers. All of his brothers is passed away now. They lived out in Copeland.

	D:	In Copeland? Mmhm. Yes, could you name the brothers or do you know the brothers?

	W:	One was David Watts. One was—all we know, his name was Junior Watts, he was in the military. And there was—

	D:	Did he have any sisters or just brothers?



	W:	Yeah, he had a sister, her name was Bertha.



	D:	Yes. Remind me of that, I can get the names. I’ll go back in, and I’ll pull the names of all the sisters and all the brothers that he had. Another thing, did Lester belong to a church?

	W:	Yes, he belonged to the Baptist Church.





D:  He belonged to the Baptist Church. I understand. I think he’s buried out there in the Baptist Cemetery, probably Saint Peter, because that was one of the Baptist churches in the Archer area.

W:  I know [inaudible 23:36]. They closed the Pentecostal church out in Copeland. So, he wasn’t a minister he was a [inaudible 23:50] deacon because you know with all the funerals and what have you.

D:  Mmhm, mmhm. I see. Well, is there anything that you would like to share that I have not asked.

	W:	Well, we have a family reunion. They usually have a family reunion every year. Now that all the adults have passed away—because me and another daughter- in-law, we’re the only two that are living that know anything about the past. The family reunions have kind of died down, and I was talking to some of the nieces and nephews and I said, “I’m going to have something later down here and bring the family together again.” Because see, my kids don’t know their relatives. And in fact, my youngest son, he brought this girl to the house one time, and he didn’t know that she was a part of the family. A distant cousin. I pulled him to the side. He goes, “Oh no, mom. No, no, no!” I said, “That’s why I tell you boys you need to come to the family reunions. Meet your cousins and your nephews and your aunts and uncles and stuff like that.” Because we will be at the family reunions.

	D:	Mmhm.



	W:	But now it’s kind of died down and I want to bring that back up while I’m still around. And hopefully the kids will carry it on, because—





	D:	Yeah, the heritage, that’s how you pass your stories down from one generation to the next generation. So important that we maintain those, those family stories—

	W:	You have to know, you know. They come from all over the country. See, used to be a time when we’d all stay in one area. Now, they’re all over the country. Hard to get ‘em all together at one time. But I was just talking to some nieces in Gainesville, I said, “I’m going to get something together hopefully within the next year, next summer. We can bring us together and bring that family reunion back.” Something didn’t work. The younger people do all the secretarial work, collected the money, and doing everything. I’ve had cookouts down here in Saint Pete for immediate family, but nothing big.

	D:	Yes, well, you have to work up to that and they’ve got to have an interest in it, too.

	W:	Right.



	D:	Unless they say yes and want to be a part of it. Well, let me ask one other thing.



From the family perspective, were there any stories that they talked about in regard to Lester’s murder. Is the—people would put the term “beef”—in the community that would have caused this rift? Is there anything that the family would think that was racially motivated by this killing?

	W:	I don’t think so. What I didn’t know, they were just—It was no big, no rift or anything like that. The family, they were a nice couple. Everybody cared for them.

	D:	Yes.



	W:	Young couple.





	D:	The other question was too, did these fellows know Lester? Had they ever seen him or anything?

	W:	I don’t think so.



	D:	It was just a matter that they were out, and it was near areas where they could get alcohol, too?

	W:	Right, right.



	D:	And therefore, they were thinking that these guys just wanted to have some fun with the Black person, do some shooting or something of that nature and decided that he was there, and he was the target.

	W:	Right. I don’t know.



	D:	Well, I want to thank you this afternoon for taking your time to go over your family history with us and to give us more insight to the killing of Lester Watts.

	W:	I certainly hope I can get to go up in the morning, go to Gainesville. My son should be here today. I haven’t heard from him, so riding three hours along—

D:  Yes, because he’s got to go to LA, out of Los Angeles, yes. Well, we hope to see you tomorrow. I plan to be there at the ceremony, and I’ll make it my business to find you.

W:  I hope. I talked to the lady yesterday. Where is it going to be? What’s the location?

D:  Well, it’s downtown Gainesville and what I will do, I can send you the address. I will email you that address and then all he has to do is put it in his GPS and he can drive directly there.





	W:	Well, I know Gainesville pretty well, and you know my daughter, she probably would go to and my granddaughter, they all want to go.

	D:	Well please bring them all. It’s so important that they do this and that these people are remember, and this is the way that this history can be kept alive and inform so many people that have no knowledge that this occurred here in Gainesville. It’s one of the many lynchings and atrocities to kill.

	W:	Absolutely. What you said there about that—that word. Yes, because I heard it on TV, and I didn’t even know that.

	D:	Mmhm. Well, I’ll even send you more information and I know family members from the Ocoee Massacre. Great, great, great family members many generations down. And I can share that with you, and we just need to be informed.

	W:	Absolutely. And we need to pass it down to grandchildren. I have a grandson that’s fifteen and I try to tell him about things that have happened. And I say, “Now you are fifteen years old.” I tell him, I said, “Don’t walk with [inaudible 30:41] hood on.”

	D:	No.



	W:	Because the hoodie, they think—you know. And I tell him all these things that he need to know about.

	D:	Absolutely.



	W:	Copts and what have you. I said, “Don’t put a hoodie on. Get you a cap if you that cold out there.” He was little when this happened to Trayvon Martin.

	D:	Amen! That’s what I was thinking Trayvon over in Sanford, Florida. Don’t get me started with the Black Lives—





	W:	Start killing. That’s what I tell my grandson. [inaudible 31:19] and he drove to road right down from my house and stopped, but still, you never know.

	D:	Absolutely, absolutely. We have to tell our children, especially our Black boys—I have three boys. So, I know what you’re talking about. I used to talk to ‘em all the time about being safe and when to come in and how not to go in certain locations. It’s so important because it saves lives. It’s vicious out here.

	W:	I say, “Don’t walk through the store and walk the dog quickly.” And I say, “Just be careful.” It’s not that hard. It don’t take much!

	D:	No. On your house and on your porch and on your steps, it’s the only way around here.

	W:	Absolutely.



	D:	We understand and we respect you so much for taking your time this afternoon to talk with us and to share and to have a lady who has been in Gainesville and an RN, a nurse, a registered nurse, and still helping in the community. This is so important. In her local church and then willing to come to Gainesville from Tampa in the morning to be a part of the ceremony that’s going to be here, the Remembering Racial Terror: Lynching Victims in the Gainesville, Florida Area.

We truly appreciate you so much and thank you and I look forward to meeting you all tomorrow as we move forward with this program.

	W:	All right.



	D:	All right and so we’re going to close out at this time. We don’t have a clock right here, but the date of course is Friday afternoon and it’s February the 19th in Gainesville Florida and Mrs. Bertha Watts is in Tampa, Florida. And she has





information and has shared great information concerning Lester Watts. Mr. Watts is one of the people that will be commemorated tomorrow in Gainesville, Florida. And Lester was killed in Gainesville on March the 21st of 1942 around nine o’clock in Gainesville, Florida. Again, I thank you and have a blessed evening.

	W:	You too. Thanks a lot. Bye-bye now. D:	Bye.

[End of interview] Transcribed by: Abby Lovett

Audit-Edited by: Sandra Romero, September 27, 2021 Final-Edited by: Sandra Romero, September 28, 2021