AAHP 048A; Hill-Lubin; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 048A Mildred Anderson Hill-Lubin African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by James Myers on June 4, 2009 1 hour, 22 minutes | 33 pages



Abstract: Dr. Mildred Hill-Lubin grew up in Russell County, Alabama during the Roosevelt era. She describes a number of memories from that time and related family history, including memory of a major storm that struck the area when she was a small child. Dr. Hill-Lubin describes attending Catholic school, and relates the story of how she ended up going to Paine College in Augusta, Georgia, and he she persisted in completing her degree over the course of a decade in the face of several obstacles. As she completed her degree, she became involved in the Civil Rights Movement, and in 1968 her son, as a first-grader, was the first to integrate his school in Augusta. Dr. Hill- Lubin relates some of the stress and frustration of that period, during which she was also teaching and working hard to make her academic career successful. She also relates some of her early experiences after being hired at the University of Florida in 1974, and the context of her hiring. And she sees both the assassination of Martin Luther King and the election of President Barack Obama as two major pivotal moments in her life.





Keywords: [African American History; Russell County, Alabama; Civil Rights Movement; Integration]































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 048A

Interviewee: Mildred Anderson Hill-Lubin Interviewer: James Myers

Date: June 4, 2009



	M:	Well, I guess we’ll get started. I’ll state my name: James Myers. It’s June 4th, 2009, 2:25pm. If you’ll please state your name.

H:   I am Mildred A—oh, I’m sorry. I’m Mildred Anderson Hill-Lubin.



M:   Thank you very much. Now, when and where, exactly, where you born?



H:   I was born—I would normally just say Russell County, Alabama, which is a part of Phoenix City, Alabama, but in an area that’s known as Uchee Hill, which is in Alabama; now it’s Seale, Alabama. That area.

M:   What year?



H:   1933.



M:   1933. That’s the beginning of the New Deal administration.



	H:	Ah, that’s right! So, I don’t—I didn’t know very much about that. But I knew Franklin Delano Roosevelt, and I remember when he passed, because he passed at the Little White House, which was Warm Springs, Georgia, and that wasn’t too far from where I lived. And by that time I was old enough to know more and more about presidents and politics.

	M:	Sure, absolutely. Can you describe your family? Your mother and father—what was your—I’m sorry, what was your father’s name and your mother’s name?

	H:	My father’s name was Luther Anderson, and my mother was Mary B. Johnson- Anderson.

	M:	Do you ever—do you remember your grandparents? Were they a part of your family?





	H:	Oh, yes! My grandmother was very much a part of my family, and her name was Lizzie Johnson Lewis. And, I don’t remember my grandfather. I heard about him, but I didn’t know him on the maternal side. Actually, I didn’t even know my grandparents on my paternal side, either. My grandmother on my—both of my grandmothers were at my birth, so I understand, but I never did know my grandfather. I heard about my grandfather, but I didn’t know either one of them.

	M:	Sure. What kind of things did you hear about him?



	H:	Well, they were—well, interesting. [Laughter] Because, I first, I’ll just say that he owned—he was the first Black man in that area to own an automobile. And he could not buy it in Alabama. He had to go to Detroit to buy the car. And they did, apparently, farming. And also, they had a great deal of timber, and I understand—now, these are the rumors that come from my family—is that they made, it was during the prohibition, they also made white whiskey, or white liquor for the Kennedy family and all of that group! Those are rumors.

	M:	Oh, so they had a still there, too, then? H:	Yeah they had a still there.

	M:	Were there ever any stories of your grandfather receiving problems for owning a car.

	H:	I assume he didn’t live long enough to do it. It was a new car, and from the stories that we are told, my Uncle was driving it, and just as they came out in the road or something, they ran into a big Greyhound bus and they were—he was killed in that, bus. Mmhm.

	M:	Oh, my!





	H:	So, he didn’t get a chance to enjoy it too much from the stories I’ve heard. M:	But here sure did make history there, though, right?

	H:	Right. Yes, and it was—it’s been very interesting because my great—now we know that my great-grandfather had three daughters, and one son—my grandfather. And apparently, they were hard workers and had property, a lot of property and so on, but the interesting aspect is that my grandfather then had four sons, and all of their children were Andersons, and so, I knew all of them. And the daughters, three daughters, married, and so we didn’t know that they were that kin to us. We knew about some of the family, but we just thought they were cousins and so forth, until recently, maybe I’d say about twelve or so years ago, that all of them were kin, closely, because they were the children of my grandfather—they were brothers and sisters of my grandfather. They were children of my grandfather’s sisters. And they were Howards and Smiths. And they, too, were having a family reunion, but it was from just the Howards and Smiths, and the Andersons were having a family reunion, and, the last family reunion we had just as the Anderson, we were in Tacoma, Washington. And I have a sister who lives out there. And they voted for the next one to be in Las Vegas. And at that time, I wanted them to go back to the family rather than back to Uchee Hill in that area, where we could—while my mother was still living, she would have been able to tell us more about it. But they out-voted me and I said, “Well, I am not going to Las Vegas just to have a family reunion!” [Laughter] And irony presents itself: my brother, who still lives in Columbus, Georgia, went, found—they invited him to come to this family reunion, and then he learned that





they were really very closely kin to us. So, since then, we have merged, and we tend to have family reunions together. We were supposed to have one this year but I haven’t anything from anyone, so I don’t know what has happened now.

	M:	Hopefully it won’t be in Vegas, huh? H:	[Laughter] Oh, it will not be in Vegas!

	M:	Do you have any special family memories, or maybe special days growing up?



	H:	I remember when we lived down in the country, we lived apparently in the family home. And my uncle and his wife lived on one side, and my mother and father lived on the other side. And I had a tricycle that I—the house was up on a little incline, and I used to ride the tricycle down the hill. And every time I’d get down to the bottom of the hill, I would fall, because there was a sand bed there. [Laughter] And so, I came—I did not like to bike, bicycles or tricycles, because of that. And the other thing I remember vividly is that there was a storm, a very big storm, that came through that area. I have been trying to figure out—I think it was the same storm that maybe Zora Neale Hurston talks about in her novel, Their Eyes Were Watching God. But anyway, it did a great deal of damage in that particular area. And I was home with my mother, and my mother was combing her hair at a dresser, and brushing it, and we were getting ready to come into town. And I was sitting on a trunk looking at the window, and I said, “Momma, it’s getting so white outside!” And she said, “Oh my goodness! It’s storming! Save us Lord, save us!” And from that day to this one, I’m still scared of very big storms.

From then on, I was really, really frightened of storms. So, those are the memories I remember. Oh yes—the last memory, which isn’t so pleasant, is that





our house burned down. That house burned down. We understand it had to with family politics, but anyway, it did burn down. And I remember we came from town, my mother and father had brought us from—had gone to town, and they probably were going to sell vegetables and so on that they had grown, because I remember when people—on the front street of Columbus, women used to walk with baskets of vegetables on their head. But, when we came back from town, the house, everything had burned down to the ground, and you could see the bedsprings. And I walked around with my mother just looking through things. And that, I do remember. Of that, those are very early, had to be when I was around three years old or so. I did have a sister who was next to me, and I know one of the things I used to do as a little girl was to take Momma’s little spoons or silver, and I had found a little hole in the floor, and I would call my sister to tell her, show her to come. She was crawling, and I’d tell her, show her that I was going to throw this spoon down through this hole in the floor. I don’t know why, but that was just my little secret to tell her about. [Laughter] Shortly after that, we moved from the country, then, into an area that’s called Girard, which was not too far up from where we lived, because you had to come through—Girard is a part of Phoenix City, and that was the area where most Black people lived. The Whites live up further in, and they called that Phoenix City. But that area where Blacks lived was Girard. And we moved into my grandmother’s house on my maternal side, and she lived on the highest mountain in that area. And that was always interesting to know that. And then later, I think our family then moved. Now, my mother says that we moved over to Columbus, because my father started





working for a family; but, I don’t recall that. But I had a sister who was born at that time. There were three girls, three girls of us, and I remember all the days when there were three of us and everybody thought we were three little, cute little girls. My mother also learned how to sew at that time, and so she could take clothes and take them apart and dress them. At that time, we had moved back to Phoenix City, and we were living away from where the bus came. Most everything we did was on the bus, and so we’d have to walk from where the bus stopped, back to our house in Phoenix City then. In Girard, as I should say. So I remember all that area, because we stayed there for a long time. We stayed there until—see, I was born in 1933, and my brother, the oldest brother, was born in 1942, I believe it is. But I knew all about the War. I remember the War, WWII, and how things were rationed. And—do you want me to keep talking?

	M:	Oh, please! Absolutely!



	H:	Oh, okay. [Laughter] I then was probably about nine years old, but I was always very independent. My mother, as you can see, was having babies a lot, and she was sick a great deal. So, I was always worried about her. But, I know when it was, things were rationed, you couldn’t get soap powder, you couldn’t get stockings, you had stamps to get sugar, and I remember all of that. And I used to tell my mother, as a nine-year-old, that I could go and get some. If we’d see a sign where some store was advertising that they would have sugar that day, or either they would have washing powder, or something like that, I’d say, “Well, Momma, I can go and get it!” And that meant that I’d have to go to get on the bus and ride across town. And she’d say, “You think you can go?” I’d say, “Yes, I can





go.” And I would go. And it was good, because when I would get there, there would be crowds of people trying to get to the sugar or whatever. And I was small enough to go up under them and get whatever I had to get and bring it back to my mother. So, I do recall the War. And then, about that time, I also was getting ready to graduate from—we were going—well, I should say, I started school there. And when I started school in Girard, I already knew how to read. And my parents didn’t believe that I could read. They kept thinking I was just reading the pictures. Finally, they discovered that I really could read, and then I learned how to read by reading the bus. You know how they have information on the bus, and these advertisements, and billboards, and things like that? And, so I could read so well that the teacher would stand me up in a chair and let me read to the class. Now, that didn’t make very good friends for me in the class, because everybody thought I was a smarty-smarty. [Laughter] But I could read. So, I think that’s where I’ll stop right now. To say—and then, if you want to ask me more, I can go on. Did you have any more questions related to that?

	M:	Well, I had a few questions. One of them was, do you remember the nature of the work your father was doing in Columbus?

	H:	Oh I see, okay. My father worked at first, I believe, on numerous jobs. The earliest job I remember his working on was on the railroad. And I remember one Christmas, he was in Sylacauga, Alabama, and my mother and I were waiting on him to come and bring us some money so that we could buy Christmas gifts. Our family was not—we were poor, actually, but we didn’t know that we were poor.

We were very happy. And momma tried to buy little things to make us happy and





all. And so, I do remember that. Later on, my father started working at the Golden[s’] Foundry, which was doing foundry steelwork and so forth, iron. And he worked there, but the most interesting thing is that he started selling vegetables. Now, we were not farming, but he would go the market, at the farmers market, and he would buy vegetables to sell. At first, he began by pushing a cart, and he would go through hollering, “Vegetable man! Vegetable man!” And then, he moved from that to a fruit stand. And later, he moved from fruit stand to a tent store. And then from a tent store, he opened a brick store. But a number of things had happened in there; as you remember, we were in Alabama when the war was going on. But most of your purchasing had to be done across the river, in Columbus. And then we decided, my mother decided, that we were going to move, because we were living in, like, shotgun house, and just didn’t have very much. So, they mentioned that they were building public housing projects in Columbus, so my mother went over and applied for us to move into the Warren William apartments. And I can remember that very well: 100D. And we moved there on V-J Day from Phoenix City, Alabama—Girard, Alabama—to Columbus, Georgia. And we were going through town. Now, we didn’t have a radio or anything. We were going through tow,n and everybody was just shouting and hollering about this was V-J Day, and “We’ve won the war,” and blah blah blah!

Of course, this is World War Two and we didn’t know anything about it. We were on a truck with mattresses and trying to get through the crowd of people out in the streets and everything. But anyway, we did move to town, and we always—I laugh. I tell people we thought we were moving on up then, because see, we





wouldn’t have to take a bath in a tin tub as we did in Alabama. We’d have an indoor toilet, we’d have running water, and all those other things. Whereas, when I lived over in Alabama, we didn’t have those things. So interestingly, I left to go to college from the Warren William apartment, the projects. In 100D. Just recently, we were in Columbus—not, maybe last year—and I went over to the projects just to see where we lived, and to see who was living in our house.

	M:	In 100D?



	H:	Uh huh. I didn’t get to meet the person living there, but I met the man, the family next door—a man, I think it was—and I told him that we used to live here next door in 100D, Warren William apartments.

	M:	Isn’t that something! Well, you mentioned going to college—you went to your bachelor’s at Paine College in Augusta, Georgia, correct?

	H:	Right.



	M:	That’s an historically Black college? H:	Mmhm.

	M:	And if I’m correct, the school’s motto is “Rejoicing in hope.” H:	At Paine College?

	M:	At Paine College.



	H:	How did you get that? That probably is true! [Laughter] M:	It’s amazing what you can find on the Internet!

	H:	[Laughter] I’ve forgotten all about what the motto was. But I did go to Paine College, and I enjoyed that. And I still have very close ties with Paine college. Because, see, when I was in high school, people didn’t think I was going to





college; my teachers didn’t. But nevertheless, they gave me some of the exams that possibly could give me a scholarship, and one of the regrets that I have is that I did win a scholarship through one of the sororities, but the teacher said that she didn’t think I was going to college, so she offered to give it to—she gave it to another young woman. They just didn’t think—well, I should mention that before going to high school over in Columbus, I went to Mother Mary Mission, which was a Catholic school, and a place Sisters of Mercy started. It was a mission school, just like now they talk about mission schools outside. They recognized that Phoenix City, Alabama was a poor area. So. And then, of course, I should mention that our school in Girard was burned down, and we think it was burned down by the Ku Klux Klan. And for a while, we went to school in churches. But then later, the nuns came to town, and they went from door to door asking the parents to let us go. Well, many of the White people said, “No, don’t let the children go to Catholic school!” But my mother did let us go to Catholic school.

And I went there until I was in the tenth grade. Even after we moved to Columbus, I went back for one year, I believe, on the bus back to Mother Mary Mission to go to school, and then I went to Columbus. When we moved to Columbus, I went to Spencer High School. And that is interesting, because just last week, two weeks ago, I went back for my sixtieth high school reunion, and that was a very pleasant trip. Many of my classmates are gone at this time, but it was a pleasure to see all the ones that I had met when I went to high school. And more so, I met a classmate that we had been very close friends. There were three of us who used to run together. And I had not seen her in sixty years. And





she came from California to the reunion, so that was a very exciting moment to get to see her again.

	M:	Wow. What do you think the role of education was in the African American struggle for civil rights?

	H:	Oh, education was always important for African Americans. They believed that that would be one of the ways out of oppression—possible—in other words, we were taught they could take everything from you, but they can’t take what’s in your mind from you. So, you want to get as much education as you possibly can. But they didn’t have to tell me that; I always enjoyed learning and reading. The nuns discovered that I enjoyed reading, so they used to supply me with books.

So that meant I read all of the series of the Bobbsey Twins, and all those books that young people read at that time, and continued to read for all of my life. But education was very important. Unfortunately, my father didn’t ever learn to read and write well. He did learn how to write his name. He learned also, he could count money better than anybody! And he could read his Sunday school lesson and the Bible some. But he didn’t ever learn how to really read and write. My mother, on the other hand, did go to eighth grade. And she, after the three girls were grown up and left home—I should add that my family—again, my immediate family—was divided up. My mother had three girls, and we were three girls for a long time. Then, we had—she had my brother in about 1942. And we thought—oh, it was heaven when we got him! We loved him, and we still love him! [Laughter] Although he’s now in his sixties, but we loved him. And then, he was born in Phoenix City. Then we moved to Columbus, and my other two





brothers were born shortly after; it was like [19]47, or [19]46, something of that nature. And then, I went to college. And well, I went to college at Paine College as you say, and I was there for two years. But the summer of my freshman year? Yeah, I think it was, summer of my freshman year.

	M:	1958-[19]59?



	H:	No I went in 1949. M:	To Paine College?

	H:	To Paine College. Yeah. And in [19]50 I was working. In the summer of [19]50, I had done my freshman year. And I met a young man named Walter Hill. He was a soldier at Ft. Benning, and I was working at the USO. And he came in, and somehow became enamored with me, and I certainly was enamored with him.

And then I—he wanted to get married. And I said, “Oh, I don’t know about that, because I really want to go to school, and my father would have a fit if I would get married.” And I said, “I tell you what: you ask him after I leave.” And so, my father said no at first. But afterwards, after everybody kept after telling him, “You’d better let her go on and get married,” he agreed. So we got married after my sophomore year, at the end of my sophomore year, with the promise that I would go back to school. That was my husband’s agreement, that I would go back and finish. Well unfortunately, he didn’t want to keep that agreement. He did let me go back the fall of [19]51, and at Christmastime I went home to try to persuade him to let me continue and go on back, but then he said no. So then I stayed.

And we were living in Columbus, and his home was in Charlotte, North Carolina. So, he persuaded—he said he wanted me to go with him back to his hometown. I





should say something about my getting into Paine College. You remember that I told you that my teachers didn’t think I was going to college because we were so poor? But I always had this desire to want to go to college. They talked about college, and going to college, while I was there, but I didn’t have—I didn’t know what—I knew that you made an application and so on, but I didn’t know that you had to get any information back to say you had been accepted. So I went to college without being accepted! [Laughter] But the best thing that happened was that at that time, they were allowing you to take—all everybody took entrance exams. As soon as you arrived that week or so, you did exams. And I made the highest score of the freshman class. So, they weren’t going to send me home after that. Then they worked with me. I did get a scholarship, and that really helped. And they gave me a job working in the library, and then I was able to have money. Only thing, my father had to send money to take care of my housing—room and board. And my mother always said, after that, that one of the reasons I got married was my father was so stingy about sending the money. I was always having to worry—“You have to get the money in on time!”—and so on. But that was, I don’t think that was the reason I wanted to get married. I just wanted to get married because I thought I was in love. But that marriage didn’t work out. But I did move with him to Charlotte, North Carolina, and discovered that he was just extremely jealous. And then I—but I was still determined I wanted to go to school. So, he did agree to pay for my going to Johnson C. Smith College during the summer, to take some classes so that if I could go back to Paine College in the fall, I could be with my class. To our regrets and my





happiness, I suppose, when I got ready to go back to college, I was pregnant. And so, that meant I didn’t get to go back. And it took me about eight more years, or ten more years; eight years, I’d say. Because I left in [19]52, and went back in [19]60. That was a long struggle between—I had two sons by that time. But I still was ready to go back to school, and I did everything. I looked for scholarships, and I looked for ways to go back. And we were separating; I think we separated by that time. But I was able, I went back home to my parents with the two sons, and then I found—I went, that’s where I was saving my money, and Atlanta University had an off-campus course, taught an off-campus course in Columbus. And it was on counseling. And he taught—told us about the NEA grants. So, I wrote to Paine College to ask them, was I eligible to get an NEA grant? And they said yes. And then, I went back to college and my parents kept my two sons. And that was the beginning of my continuing education. And that was the beginning— as in, this was [19]60—that’s the beginning of the Civil Rights Movement and so forth. So, I did not participate in the sit-ins, but I participated in the planning, and what we were going to do, and how it would happen. Meanwhile, I went back, and I had to finish my last year. And that meant that I had to finish a French class, which I had forgotten every word but ‘la’ and ‘le’, when I went back. But nevertheless, I taught myself. I would ride on the bus coming back to Columbus, I would take the book and start from the front and go to the back, and eventually, I was able to catch up and do better in the class than many of the persons who were taking the course. But, that was beginning, and then when I almost finished Paine College, or when I was just about to finish, I learned that I was just about





ranking the same as the young lady who would have been the valedictorian of the class. But they didn’t think that was fair for me to come in and take over that, so they gave us co-valedictorian. And as a result of that, I was given a small fellowship to go to graduate school. And then, a teacher there, a deaconess in a Methodist church, Dr. Ruth Bartholomew thought that I should come back to Paine College and teach. And she then asked me if I could go—they couldn’t hire me unless I had a master’s degree. So, she asked my parents if they would keep my children while I went back to get my master’s at Western Reserve University in Cleveland, Ohio. So, I did go. But, I should add that I didn’t have that much money. That little fellowship would not have done it, but this teacher, Dr.

Bartholomew, loaned me money as well as gave me some money to go to college. And she said she would lend me the money because she didn’t want me to feel that I was a pauper or something, and just get money from her. So, she wrote out a little contract that I would have to repay so much of the money back to her. But that’s how I did go to graduate school and get my master’s at Western Reserve. Originally I was going to stay with my Aunt and Uncle who lived in Cleveland, and that worked out well because Dr. Bartholomew had received her PhD on Milton from Western Reserve. And so, she was glad that I had relatives there, and I could stay with them. I did stay with them during the summer, but they would worry me to death about, “You’re studying so much,” and “You’re going to go crazy if you don’t do something else.” So, I decided I could not stay with them when I went back to Western Reserve the next year. So I did, for that year, my first full year there, and I did get my Masters. And I also started editing





work for a Dr. Sussman, who was a sociologist, and they were doing research on an area of Cleveland that was close to Shaker Heights. I don’t know whether you’ve heard about Shaker Heights, but that was a very, really modern, special, high-class neighborhood, and no Blacks lived in it. And that was even in Cleveland. But at another neighborhood was coming up near it, and it was [inaudible 37:53] going to be integrated, and he was doing work on that. So, he also, after I had graduated, he told me I could work there the summer. And so, I brought my children up to Cleveland with me. And then, after that, we went back to Paine College for me to teach. And I taught at Paine College until I went—that was [19]61, and I had taught there until [19]72, when I began then to go get ready to go to University of Illinois. But from [19]60 to [19]72, that’s the height of the Civil Rights Movement. I was very much involved. We started—there was an English professor who wrote a grant to what at that time was called the EPDA program, it was called Educational Professional Development Act under Congress, and I became the composition teacher. Well, at that time, we only had one woman there who had a doctorate degree. And we loved her. She taught at Xavier University in Louisiana, and she would come each summer to work with us in that program. And then, it was an integrated program. Now, integration was nothing new at Paine College, because many of the teachers were White, and it was a private Methodist school, United Methodist. And CME Methodists had built it. And many of the groups that came through that were integrated would have programs and things there. So, I had been accustomed to being taught by Whites, since the nuns at Mother Mary Mission were White, too.





	M:	Now your son, from what I understand, integrated schools in Augusta. H:	He did. He did, he did.

	M:	Tell me about that.



	H:	That was one of the, oh, most unbelievable experiences. It was unbelievable. But for me, I felt it was necessary. He was in first grade, and—

	M:	What year was that?



	H:	Oh, gosh! Okay, he was born in [19]58, so that had to be around, it must have been [19]63 or—oh, I know! President—

	M:	Eisenhower.



	H:	No, President Kennedy was assassinated just about the time he started school, and I think he was assassinated in [19]63, I believe. So—because what happened, when the people, the Whites in the community discovered he was going to integrate schools, they started calling me on the telephone telling me that they were going to kill him as they shot Kennedy. And that was a bad feeling. But I wrote a letter to myself, and I said, “If he were old enough to go to the Army, he would be drafted to fight for his country to give us freedom.” And therefore, I felt that enrolling him to help integrate schools was equally as important. And so, therefore, I did satisfy my own feelings about letting him go to that school. So, he did integrate the schools. It was a miserable experience, because—what happened, I was afraid that something would happen to him all the time. So, there were two young men at Paine College, who were students, who agreed to come every morning, walk him to the school, and then they would go every afternoon and walk him back. Well, I’m trying to teach at the same time as





worrying that he would get home safely. So, I’m looking out the window as I’m teaching to see them walk across the campus to bring him home safely. So, it was miserable. It was not a pleasant experience to go through that. And, to add to it, I then was selected that year to go to Minnesota on an exchange program. The White schools discovered the Black colleges—White universities—so therefore, they decided that we ought to have exchange programs. So I was selected to be one of the persons who would go to Hamline College, a university college at that time, to teach, and also to do some studying at University of Minnesota. So, I took both of my sons and went out there for, well, little over a year we went in the summer, and came back the next summer to Paine College. And during that period, right at that period, my first husband just wanted us to get back together. So he came to Minnesota, and we drove from Minnesota back to Augusta, Georgia for me to start teaching again. While we were doing those institutes in Augusta, I think I became—we had to teach ourselves, because not very much African American literature was in print at that time, and nobody knew very much about it, but we were intent on teaching it. Because we felt it should have been a part of the curriculum. And I then started reading and reading about African American literature. Oh, I also—this, one of the directors who had started this program decided to go back and get her PhD, because during that period, many of the universities started offering scholarships for Blacks to come back to do further study. And she decided to go, and then she asked me, or appointed me, to be the director of the program. And I became director of the EPDA program. But I also was becoming very competent in African American literature,





so people were asking me to come and talk and consult with them on teaching African American literature, and make suggestions, things of that nature. We also would have an institute in the summer, and then during the school year, it was the director or someone’s duty to go visit the schools that were in the midst of desegregating at that time. And I used to do that, I used to go visit the schools as part of my responsibility with that program. And it would be such a terrible experience, seeing the Black children—most times, they were in the back of the room. Nobody was paying any attention to them. The classes were awful. I would get out—I remember one time I came out of this school, and it was such a horrible experience that I just closed the window of my car and screamed as loud as I could! [Laughter] But, we did do a great deal with the desegregation of schools. We had programs on Saturday, and many, many teachers would come. We’d have an auditorium full of teachers, because everybody wanted to get some information about how to improve their teaching. And then, that became part of the grant responsibility, to help with the desegregation of schools there.

So that’s, that was part of my involvement in the [19]60s. At the same time, Augusta—while they didn’t—when I carried my son to integrate, to desegregate the school, I did ask one of the professors, the dean, he was the dean of students there, to go with me. And the three of us went to this school, and we had to walk through Whites on both sides. So, that was rather scary to go walk in. But I did. We did do that. And we left him. And then, it was so funny that evening; everybody wanted to know what happened. Bob was so cool. “Momma, I had to help those children with their—they couldn’t even write their names!





They couldn’t even do this!” And everybody thought that was so funny, because here he was, helping the other children, the White children, and their parents would have had a fit to even think he was looking at them. [Laughter] Then he comes home talking about helping them out. But, he did go there. And then, the next year, I took him to Minnesota in the second grade, and no Whites were in that school, either—I mean, sorry, no Blacks were in that school. He was the only Black in that group. So, he did a lot of breaking down barriers and so forth, too.

	M:	Was there a difference between Minnesota and Georgia as far as the way they received your son?

	H:	Oh, yeah. I didn’t have any problem. I didn’t have to go do anything but just enroll him in Minnesota. Nobody had any qualms about that. They didn’t have any problem. He was just the only Black in that class.

	M:	Now you came to the University of Florida in 1974? H:	Right.

	M:	That was a bit of a transitional year; J. Wayne Reitz just resigned at that time, and I believe they were transitioning to a new President.

	H:	You mean O’Connell?



	M:	To O’Connell, yes. There was a one-year interim president, I can’t remember his name…

	H:	Ok O’Connell, it had been in [19]71, the students had had an uprising, and requesting that they be given more Black faculty, and more African American Studies classes and so forth. And then, the university—oh, by the way, when they went to the president, he would not receive them. So, they sat-in at the door,





and then he called the police and had many of them arrested. There were some Whites with them, in the sit-in, and many of the students, Black students, left at that time, in reaction to that, having those students arrested. And many of them did not come back. Well, they couldn’t come back, because he didn’t—then I, by the time I came—I don’t know what happened between, I do know that they did begin the Institute of Black Culture. And two other Black professors came: professor Carlton Davis, who was at IFAS, and Dr. Ronald Foreman was in the English Department, and also was supposed—was the director of Afro-American Studies at the University. And they came in [19]71, I believe. And—no, they came, maybe they came in [19]71. Then, in [19]72 or [19]73, Dr.Harris Shaw came, and he—by the way, Dr. Foreman was in English, too. But he was also director of African American Studies. And Dr. Shaw came, and he was involved with the college dean, one of their associate deans, in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences. But he, too, was in English. And at that time, Dr. Ward Hellstrom was the chair of the English Department. And so, they went out, they came to Illinois because they felt that Illinois where they had graduated—all of us were from University of Illinois—and they came and asked me about coming to the University of Florida to teach, and to work. And at first, see, I was really supposed to be going back to Paine College, because I was on scholarship from Paine College, as well as UNCF scholarship, which meant that I was supposed to go back. But, after coming down and talking with them—and then, they were very interested. By the way, my older son by that time was in college, too; he was going to Morehouse. So I only had my younger son, who at that time was in





middle school, and had just been named to the basketball team in middle school in Augusta. And here I am getting ready to go to Illinois. So I had to convince him. I said, “Oh if you’re good, you’ll get to be on the team in Illinois.” So, he went with me, and he did try to play on the team in Illinois. Now, that’s where we did discover discrimination. There were two Blacks on the team, and the coach couldn’t play both of them together. He had to play one at one time, and one at another. That’s just the insanity of discrimination, because the parents would have had a fit, you know, if there were two Blacks. Now, we only have Blacks on all the teams! [Laughter] I mean, that’s all on the teams, most of them. But at that time, you had to do one, do it gradually.

	M:	Even in Illinois, the Land of Lincoln, huh?



	H:	Oh yeah, yeah. It was—that happened. And then I—my son told me, and I was getting ready to go to the school and have a fit. He said, “Momma, Momma, no, no, no! I’ll work it out, I’ll work it out!” Because he didn’t want me to go. But anyway, that’s part of the experience at Illinois. But I really enjoyed at Illinois.

That was one of the best parts of my life, I think, being in Illinois. Because I was then was studying African American literature. Oh, I should mention why we were doing those institutes: we had a consultant who came, and her topic was “More Write in English.” And the reference was that there were other people in the world who wrote in English, other than the United States and Britain. So then, she introduced us to African and Caribbean writers. And when I went to Illinois to go to school, they did not have any African literature; although I was in the English department, they didn’t have any. But just so happened that year, she





had an institute for the summer, and brought African authors, major African authors and Caribbean writers. And we stayed at the University of Kansas, I believe—it was either Kansas or Missouri—for entire summer, and we had classes and lectures from these writers. So, that was the best conference I’ve ever attended. [Laughter] It was really great. And so, that’s a little bit about my stay in Illinois.

	M:	Sure. Well I guess, lastly, with the election now of Barack Obama, what does that mean for the Civil Rights Movement, and where does it go from here?

	H:	Oh, I should tell you that my life changed with the death of Martin Luther King. It was—before that time, I was a determined… Oh, what word would I use? The only way I can describe it is that I was very deeply involved with my studies, and sort of took everything to heart that my instructors said. I wish that I could have studied more African American literature. I can recall when I was at Paine College, we read Othello, and I was so happy to read about a Black man! And this same Dr. Ruth Bartholomew was teaching the course, and I was telling her I was so glad that I could read about Black men. And she said, “Oh, he was a Moor.” You know, and that really just broke my spirit. But anyway, I still went ahead. And then, when I went to university for graduate work, not very much was going on, but when we did do the institute—this, I told you about—and it just so happened that it came in handy for me to be, to attend that institute that Dr.

Trisha—I can’t think of her last name. But anyway, she had this institute on “More Write in English.” And they allowed that to be used as my, to complete a minor in African Studies, along with my classes in—it’s not, what is it called? Oh, my





gosh! When—anthropology! [Laughter] I’m having a time trying to think of the class! Anthropology. I took classes in anthropology. And I may have taken a class in African History or something. But anyway, I know we did religion and so forth in those classes. And I also had a professor of African anthropology who was on my committee for getting my doctorate.

	M:	And it was during this time that Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated?



	H:	Oh, okay. Then, while I was in Augusta, Martin Luther King was killed. He was killed in 1968. And I was at a conference with my sorority. I won’t ever forget it, because I had just been initiated into this sorority in [19]67, and they were having the regional meeting. That meant that people from Florida, Georgia, South Carolina were there. And it just—it was the worst experience. You know, we had gone through Kennedy’s assassination, and that was awful. But when Martin Luther King was killed, for me, the world changed. Primarily because all of my life I had believed that if you did the right thing, and worked hard, everything would work out all right. I guess that was being naïve. I went through various segregated situations, grew up in them. But I was happy, and tried to make the best of my life with it. But when he was killed, that just made me change my mind, and it said to me, you can’t believe everything that you hear and read now. You have to start questioning. Because if a man is saying that we should be non- violent, and he was standing up for that, and was killed? I don’t want to hear anything else unless I question it. And that was the beginning of my—well, people would say “militancy,” but I didn’t want to believe any more of the American ideal. It was just something—I guess the worst example of it was not





too long ago, just about the same year I was retiring. My sister next to me learned to do sewing from my mother, who taught herself how to sew, and my sister then didn’t finish college. But she did sewing, and she ended up becoming the supervisor of the tailor shop at the United States Naval Academy. So, they were having a party for her retirement, and everybody, all the family were there and so on, and we were all there. And I looked—go to take a picture and I looked up and saw the flag, and I said, “Unh-uh! I’m not taking a picture under this flag!” And the irony of this is that, my sister’s husband had been a soldier, and they had traveled all over the world; children were born, some of them, in Germany, and the nephew had been in the Army. As a matter of fact, he had retired from the Army. And see, they were really close in terms—they thought the flag was just heaven, and here I’m saying, “I am not taking a picture under that flag!” And he just could not get over that. So when Obama became president, I told them, I said, “Now I can begin to say the pledge of allegiance, and I’ll be willing to take a picture under the flag.” But Obama’s presidency became another change in my life. Not a drastic one similar to what happened with the death of Martin Luther King, and thank goodness it was wasn’t a death. It was an ability to be a proud American with his ascending to the presidency. Oh, that was, it’s just, I can’t get over it. I think they are so beautiful. And the major thing I like about him is his inclusiveness, his desire to be inclusive. This hasn’t always worked well for me now, as an African American, because there are still many African Americans who maintain that we must struggle yet for Blacks to get all of their freedom, and all of their rights, and so on. And I do know that there are many problems yet that





must be addressed in the Black community. But I still, my ideal now is—and a lot of this came out of being involved with Africa, and becoming a teacher of African literature—that I would like to see a world where everybody can live in it. That’s my goal and belief now. I have that ideal of wanting to see a world that is inclusive of all people. And we can make it so. And I usually tell people who disagree with me, I say—they say, “Well, but Whites don’t have that same feeling. And why?” And I say, “But that’s our goal, to try to make it so.” And I am so proud of Obama, President Obama, for having a similar kind of belief. And I really think that it’s great. So, now, what else do you want me to say? [Laughter]

	M:	That’s wonderful. Well, is there anything else that you’d like to mention on record? I think you’ve said it all.

	H:	I always—one thing I miss when I was a little child, I did mention to you about my mother being sick all the time. And I was the oldest, and so I don’t know, I just always worried about my mother. And I would sit on the porch and look for her to come from the doctor’s office. But while I was there, we used to go—I do go to church very much, and I give credit to God for everything I have received, or done, or whatever. I still do that. To God be the glory for everything. But at that time, we attended churches where they had these hellfire preachers, and they talked about the Judgment Day all the time. So I would, as a little child, think Judgment Day was coming any minute, and I’d be so scared. And don’t let the sun start going down, because they said, you know, it was going to be red, and blood, and blah blah blah. I then just saw the sunset as that was the Judgment Day. But I would soothe myself by saying, “But they said it would be Judgment





Day, rather than Judgment Night.” [Laughter] So that was, that’s a little story I always tell. Another part of my life that is a little interesting: I told you about my father sold vegetables, and so one of the things we had to do as a family to sometime would be, we would have to get up early in the morning and shell peas and butterbeans. Because people wanted to buy them shelled rather than in the pod. We would shell—it would be the leaves, the pods would be higher than we are [indicates sitting at the table] shelling. And at this very day, I will never shell a butterbean or a pea. I never will do that! [Laughter] But, it was one of the ways, that was the way that Daddy had to help us live. But I didn’t like it. I didn’t like it at all, and I still don’t shell butterbeans and peas. [Laughter] So, I remember that very much. But, I guess those are most of the things I could say about it. I was very proud of both my mother and father. They stayed together over fifty years.

And my mother stayed with me—oh, I didn’t mention! I did get married a second time! I married a professor whom I met at an African Literature conference, and he taught Francophone African literature because he was from Haiti. And he— not that that’s the only reason, but he taught African Literature in French, and also he worked a great deal in Haitian Literature. As a matter of fact, he wrote the first—collected the first book of poetry of Haitian writers, and his name was Dr.

Maurice A. Lubin. And I met him at an African Literature conference, in Boone, North Carolina, of all places. [Laughter] They were having the conference there. And I met him, but didn’t think anything about it, because I thought, “Well, he’s all right.” But I wasn’t interested in him. But the next thing I knew, he had come to Gainesville, and I was treating him as a colleague. And then, one day we were





riding somewhere, another friend was between us, and I felt somebody scratching my back. You know, and I’m thinking, “What in the world?” Then we went to the party, and I said, “Why doesn’t he dance with Dolores? She’s shorter than I am.” Because he was shorter than I am. Well, it didn’t end that way.

Eventually, we did get married. And we went the next year to the conference, that African Literature Association conference, as husband and wife. So all everybody loved that idea, because they said, “Well you can do more at a professional conference than read papers and things of that nature!” [Laughter] It was another thing I wanted to add, too. We lived together for twenty, almost twenty years. So he was teaching at Howard University in Washington D.C., and I was teaching here. And so, we commuted for one year. Then I had sabbatical and went to up there to stay with him. But the next year he took the sabbatical and came down here. And the next year I think he retired, and then he came down to stay here.

But I haven’t said very much about my stay here in Florida, University of Florida. In total, I have to say it was a bittersweet relationship. I was very pleased to be here teaching, and have a position. At first, things were really pretty good. I came in just at the time when the women at Florida, as well as the Blacks—women by that time were beginning to say “We need more women! And we need more Women’s Studies programs! And, well, we’d like to have a Women’s Studies program.” Well, when I came in, I was like one of the first Black professors, and a woman. And so, many people—many men—would ask, “Well, where’s the professor?” That’s what they would ask. I’d say, “I’m the professor.” Well, then these women were getting together, trying to organize so that they could ask for





more women, and I said, “Well, I’m going to join you all, because I think I’m a woman, and I want the Black woman’s voice heard, too.” So, that meant I was in on the beginning of the starting of the Women’s Studies program. Actually, I went along with Irene Thompson and Ruth McQuown to the senate to petition that we could have a Women’s Studies class. And they put it on probation that we could do this class. [Laughter] And the two of us, with the others, did an interdisciplinary class. And I talked about Black women and so forth. I worked with Women’s Studies class, Women’s Studies program. Then, we also created what is called Association of Women Faculty, and I was involved with that. Not many Black women at that time—even if they were here, and it wasn’t that many at Florida anyway—did not participate very much with that, because they were not involved with women’s liberation. Black women used to think of it as White women’s type of concern, rather than for Black women. But I, as I said, worked in that, and made sure, wanted to make sure, that Black women were included. So, I’m very proud of being, having been a part of that. I also, as I indicated, was interested in African Literature, and became more interested in African Literature, in a sense, than I did—well, I guess not; African American was just—both of them were equally important. And I started the first course in Anglophone African Literature at the University, in the English Department. And I had to write it in such a way that the English Department would accept African Literature in English. And then, I could add writers under there. And I told them what writers I would be talking about. At that time, many of the men, the people in my department, thought I was going to be teaching in translation. And I had to tell





them, “No, it’s not translation. There are writers in Africa who write in English, and those are the people I’m going to be mainly teaching. I may have one or two who wrote in their native language, but then it was translated in English. But not many, I’m going to be teaching that.” Then I—that meant that I became interested in writing and researching on a woman writer by the name of Ama Ata Aidoo. And she has been here several times. I have all my books—I hope one day to get them to Africa, to Ghana particularly—and she’s going to handle them after we finally get them there. So, I’m very proud of having introduced a number of things at the University of Florida, and I think that’s what they tend to give me credit for. I had always wanted to be a university or college professor. And I did get to become, as you know, an Assistant Dean. I was one of the first women, and the first African American woman, to be a dean in graduate school. So, I enjoyed working there. But, it really caused problems for me later with my department chair, because he wrote me the nastiest letter you could ever receive, telling me, don’t come back over here thinking that I’m going to be this, and I’m making more money than some other professors. So, he was determined not—to make sure that my salary would be reduced in a way. And he twice told me that he inadvertently left my name off going up to Tallahassee for, you know, like, the work that you’ve done, you get an increase in your pay. And then they would add that to your salary, and that would increase your salary. Instead, he gave it to me as a bonus. And those kinds of things make you bitter, and kind of feel awful about that.

	M:	Do you think that was because of a gender, or a race issue, or both?





	H:	Both. He really did not like women, I don’t think, at all. We first—I have very good colleague. [Phone rings; break in recording] Oh, I was saying that I have this colleague, a White colleague. We have been friends. We both came to the university together, and we’ve been friends since then, and have continued our relationship. And she says that she kind of like this man now. But all of us knew that he was awful when we were working there, and we felt, we somehow felt that he had an inferiority complex about himself. But I mean, he did have problems, because later on the men discovered that he was just not a very friendly chairperson. [Laughter] But it was also a lonely kind of existence, after the first few years. And it also—I can’t blame the university for everything, in particular not getting my books published, or so forth, but it is true that I didn’t have anybody to talk to. You know, I didn’t have another person in my area. So, that wasn’t—it wasn’t anyone to give me feedback, stimulation and so forth, about my research, and so on. I did do research on the Black Grandmother, which is another area I was very—I liked, because I had a very good relationship with my grandmother. And so, it is told that my grandmother saved me when I was born. I was almost—I was dead. And the midwife, my grandmother asked her whether she was going to do anything. And she said, “I ain’t God.” And she walked off and left. And my grandmother bounced me, and blew on me and everything, and finally I cried; I came to life. And I always say that God left me here for some purpose. I enjoy work, teaching. I really enjoyed the students, and teaching, although I did have trouble with many students. Because see they all was at first, we only had one African American literature course. So, you didn’t





have many—you had to teach other kinds of courses. And either that was composition—everybody taught composition—but either you’d be teaching two composition classes, and then finally they started letting me teach American Literature. And that became really interesting, because then I was going to be determined to put some African American and women’s literature into the American Literature class. And then I would get this feedback on my evaluation, ‘She’s not teaching American Literature. She’s teaching women and Black literature!” So. [Laughter] That’s whatever, but… Also I, as I said, I had goals to become a college and university professor. Didn’t get there; I did serve as a trustee on the Santa Fe Community Board. And I also worked in Washington

D.C. in the American Council on Education for the Advancement of Women in Administration. So I did—and I even went for an interview at my own college, too, for becoming a president. So I did have some good experiences about reaching my goal. But now, I am enjoying my retirement! I just look back over it and say, “I taught forty-two years. I think that’s enough!” And so, I’m not worried about wanting to go back to teaching or anything. This friend of mine still teaches a class one semester of the year. But no, I don’t.

	M:	Wow. Well thank you so much, it was a wonderful story. I can’t thank you enough for sharing that with me. It’s going to be invaluable to our project.

	H:	Well, I hope so. I hope you’ll be able to find something out of there that will be of interest.

	M:	I assure you that won’t be a problem! Thank you very, very much! H:	Well, okay! I answered all of your questions?





	M:	Absolutely—and then some! Thank you! M:	All right, okay.

[End of interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, April 19, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019