AAHP 399; Mitchell; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 399 Olga Mitchell

African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by A.J. Donaldson and Randi Gill-Sadler on January 29, 2016 1 hour, 14 minutes | 40 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 399

Interviewee: Olga Mitchell

Interviewers: A.J. Donaldson and Randi Gill-Sadler Date: January 29, 2016



	D:	This is a Samuel Proctor Oral History Program interview, University of Florida.



I’m A.J Donaldson. Today is January the 29th, 2016 and we have?



M:  Olga Fenton Mitchell. That’s Olga, O-L-G-A, Fenton, F-E-N-T-O-N, Mitchell, M-I- T-C-H-E-L-L.

D:  All right. So, I just wanted to kind of get started with just getting an idea of where you’re from, and where you grew, and some things that, you know, started giving you your background and your undergirding.

	M:	Well, I would say I’m a real New Yorker. I was born in Manhattan, and I was raised in Manhattan. My father came from Jamaica, the British West Indies, and my mother came from Atlanta, Georgia. Don’t they all? [Laughter] But it was Georgia. And when I was very young, my mother would take me, I remember very vaguely, back to visit in the South. I was rather young. I really couldn’t pinpoint it. I’ve never really contacted or was in that tight with my Southern cousins or my Southern contacts. So I really came, my entire life was spent in New York in my father’s West Indian atmosphere, so to speak. And of course, after all that work, work, work, I decided to retire. And I figured I’d retire the one place I’ve enjoyed the most, and I’ve enjoyed Florida. Why? Because it’s near Disney! [Laughter]

	D:	Okay, okay.



	M:	And so I found a place down here, and I moved down here. And one day I was looking through the Orlando Sentinel, and I saw this picture, and it happened to have been of Joe Clark in front of his store. And they had a little background. And





I said to myself “My goodness, you know, Grandma always was talking about that. Something—this man was a big man. ‘Your grandfather was this,’ and ‘your grandfather was that.’” And I said “Mhmm.” You know, you don’t say nothing to grandma. But I said, “There’s no way he was in the South and he did all that.” You know? I mean like, “Uh-huh.” So I mean, my sister and I both took it with a grain of salt in all this stuff. Because she just always said “He’s a big man.” Okay, so he’s fat. So what?” [Laughter] But I paid it no attention. But now, when I saw this in the paper, I said “Could that really be him?” Because that was the name.

And I immediately put the paper down, went to my file cabinet—because it’s only two of us; my sister and I, and I’m the oldest, and I had all the death certificates, birth certificates, and everything of the family. And I took out my grandmother’s death certificate, and there it showed her father was Joseph E. Clark, and her mother was Hightower, what’s it? Julia, Julia Hightower.

	D:	Okay.



	M:	And I said “My God, can this be?” You know, so then I started on my journey.



	D:	Okay, now tell us more about—did you go to elementary, middle school, high school, all in New York?

	M:	Yes except university was Howard in Washington.



	D:	University was Howard. How was your experience in those earlier grade periods in New York compared to what you eventually maybe noticed once you arrived down South, further south?

	M:	I had absolutely no problems that I didn’t create my own self. But matter of fact I went to double grade; RA, rapid and so forth. So I didn’t have any problems at all





with that. And then when it was time to—and then, coming to Howard is just an experience of its own. It’s an experience of its own. I was a little shocked when I did get into Washington, and I was told, “Will you sit upstairs?” I said “What?” I mean, that was a shocker. But I kinda knew what was happening south. So I said, “Well, this is about as far south as I’m going.” In fact, there’s no way I’m going to take up with this stuff. So needless to say, it was nothing that encouraged me to want to come any further south until, later in my career, there was a bus going down to Disney. And I hadn’t been to Disney. I said that’s about the safest way to go South; to Disney. And so, we went to Disney. You know, when I passed through Georgia, and I saw those pine trees, I said, “Ah, that’s what they mean, ‘High as a Georgia pine!’” [Laughter] So then, that’s when I came through. Then after that another friend, one of my college friends, they had a place down here. And one thing led to the other, and sooner or later I was spending some summers down here in a timeshare. So I was back and forth until time for me to retire.

	D:	Okay.



	G:	What year were you born? What’s your birthdate? M:	June the 5th, 1925.

	D:	Okay. And you said that your father was from Jamaica. M:	Yes. Yeah, Jamaica, British West Indies.

	G:	Do you know the circumstances that brought him to the United States?



	M:	Oh, yeah. He was on a ship, but he jumped ship. [Laughter] And then he married my mother, who happened to be in New York.





	G:	And was he coming here to work, or coming here to permanently stay, or—?



	M:	Well I guess once—I never got into that, but I guess once he met her or whatever, he must have decided, “I’ll stay here.” In those years, things were a little easier. I guess if you jumped ship and you married an American citizen, they let you stay. And so, I guess that’s what happened.

	D:	Okay.



G:  And what kind of, whether it was kind of just cultural or traditions, did your father kind of instill in you, his West Indian background?

M:  Oh, you had rice and beans, and all the foods of the West Indies. G:  Okay.

M:  The only foods of the South—because my mother was the cook—but I knew the greens, and the sweet potato pie, and biscuits. And of course, my grandmother, Maddie, raised me. So that’s the way I got introduced to some more of Southern cooking. But mainly, a lot of it was West Indies. It was a mixture, it was a mixture.

G:  And was he ever traveling back and forth between the states and Jamaica, or once he was here—?

M:   No! Once he was here, he didn’t take a chance. [Laughter]



G:  So did you have communication with your paternal grandparents? M:  Yes, I did.

G:   Okay.



	M:	Yes I did. As a matter of fact, I went over there. G:	Okay.

M:   Yeah.





	G:	How old were you when you went?



	M:	Oh I would have to been in my twenties.



	G:	Okay. And when you were born in New York, were you born in a hospital? Did a midwife, hospital?

	M:	Yes, hospital.



	G:	You don’t remember the name of the hospital? M:	Yes, it was called Lion Inn.

	G:	Lion Inn?



	M:	Yeah, but it got put into the medical center. Now it’s considered the “The Medical Center Hospital.”

	G:	Okay.



	D:	No, no. Now, the thing I find interesting about the New York experience: what was it that drew your interest to Howard University? Was it because it was one of the most popular HBCUs and Black colleges that you could go to?

	\M:	Yes. Yes, without a doubt. What else was there but Howard? [Laughter]



	D:	Was there any type of particular program, or like career from—I know you—but what drove you, what was something you—?

	M:	It wasn’t a career. I just wanted to go to—I love learning, and my hobby is reading. So I’ve always had a book in my hand from the day I could. To such a point when I’ve gone to the library at one point, she said, “You have to go to the other—there’s nothing else for you to take out. You’ve got to go downstairs to the adults now.” You know, because I just loved reading. So, and then, others in my family in the West Indian side was always education. They were all—they





believed in education. Everything’s education, education, get an education. And they didn’t have to push me.

	D:	I see. And coming out on the, I think, was it before World War II was around the time maybe you were entering school or a little bit before?

	M:	That I entered Howard? Yeah, I was in the class of [19]48.



	D:	Okay you was the class of [19]48, okay. So it was a little after World War II. And the reason I bring that up is because I’m trying to see how much activism, civil rights were taking place at Howard.

	M:	Oh, yes.



	D:	And I—



	M:	Well it wasn’t that much at Howard at that time. Not at Howard because at [19]48—when I was there like [19]44, [19]48, [19]45, like that, it wasn’t—it just wasn’t that quite that active. So. Because I know the activeness came when I got back, it was in the [19]50s that it seemed to have really start exploding. And going back home, let’s see, going back and I got a job there. I remember being at the job and wanting to—I worked in the payroll department of the New York Telephone Company. And I wanted to go to the Civil Rights March on Washington, and I couldn’t get off on the day of. And I dared not push it, because I had broken the barrier, and I was one of the first people in management, Blacks in management. So I had to walk very carefully.

	D:	So, this is in [19]63? M:	No, I think [19]64.

	D:	[19]64? Okay.





	M:	I think so.



	D	Okay. No, no, it’s just trying to get an idea. M:	Yeah that was in [19]64.

	D:	So you worked in a job that most Blacks couldn’t have. M:	Right, at that point.

	D:	So your employment is on the line, you decide—but you really wanted to go and you couldn’t get off.

	M:	Right, right.



	D:	Is that something that you noticed with a lot of other workers too? That you were kinda timid not to, you know—?

	M:	No. Well, no, no, no, because see, for one thing I was—not that many Blacks were in there with me.

	D:	Okay. I’m talking about, like, other jobs, the people that had maybe not where you worked—

	M:	Oh, yeah. Anybody who could, went. D:	Anyone who could, went.

	M:	Anyone who could, went. D:	Okay, okay.

	M:	Yeah, that there’s no doubt about it. The buses just, they just left. Oh God, I wanted to be with that group! I mean, they just left one after the other, after the other. Just the whole feeling was such that you just wanted to be on one of those buses.

	D:	Yes, yes.





M:   So it’s a—.



D:   Did you ever join any of the organizations officially?



M:   Oh as much as I could. I couldn’t—I was limited, because I’d gotten married, and I just couldn’t get into meetings and things like that and working, and then having the baby. Yeah, it was just too much. But at that time, anything that came up that you could do, any rallies you could support, you did.

D:   Okay.



	M:	You know. And then, it was very unified. I found, because I lived in Manhattan, it was a very unified type of thing. I mean, you speak to one Black, you might as well speak to everyone.

	D:	I see.



	G:	I want to go back a little bit. What did your parents do for a living? M:	Oh, my father was a taxi driver.

	G:	Okay.



	M:	And my mother worked in laundry. But she was—at first, she worked in-house, just cleaning house.

	G:	Okay.



	M:	And then she progressed. And she was very proud of the fact—oh yes, and then the laundry. And then she was, I think, the first Black worker to work for the Children’s Aid Society as a homemaker.

	D:	Homemaker, okay. G:	Okay.





	M:	A homemaker. She kept families instead of them breaking up. She could keep them together, as such, during crisis times. She was very proud of that.

	G:	Okay, but you also said earlier that your maternal grandmother raised you. M:	Yes.

	G:	Was she with you all in New York? M:	Oh, yes.

	G:	Okay.



	M:	That’s the one, Joe Clark’s oldest daughter is my maternal grandmother. G:	And she lived up there with you?

	M:	When I was born, since my mother had to work and my father had to work, they got my grandmother to come up and live with us. So she lived with us in New York.

	G:	And what was your grandmother’s name? M:	Maddie.

	G:	Mattie.



	M:	Mattie Dennis. But she was Mattie Clark. G:	Got you.

	M:	She was the oldest.



	G:	And what can you tell us about your grandmother? Whether it was her demeanor, anything she—?

	M:	Oh she was such a lady. She was such a lady. She carried herself in such—you were controlled by looks. When she looked at you, you stood up, or you sat down, or you stopped doing whatever you were doing. And she just never raised





her voice. I mean, she was a lady all the way. She read that Bible all the time, upside down. But she read it! [Laughter] I still have it. I’m sure we still have it.

	G:	And so, church was a huge factor in your life in your childhood? M:	My who?

	G:	Church was a big factor during your childhood when you were in New York? Did you guys go to church often?

	M:	Oh my God, yes!



	G:	How often? Like every day?



	M:	Every—no, no, no. Every Sunday. G:	Every Sunday, okay.

	M:	Yes my grandmother, she held court. [Laughter] Reverend Givens, I remember the church. I definitely came up in the church all the way. All the way, you know? I just was just thinking of something. I thought about Reverend Gibbons, you know? Because he was a very dynamic preacher. And I remember one particular Sunday. He would say, “And he said!” And then he ran to the other side, and he says “And he said!” Then he ran to the other side, and I said, “Well, what did he say?” To the day, I don’t know what he said! [Laughter] I know that’s crazy. It’s the craziest thing when I think about it. I often smile, I say, “What did he say?”

	D:	That is funny.



M:  It’s the things that come in your mind. D:  So what was the name of the church? M:  I think Mount Moriah.

D:   Mount Moriah?





	M:	Mount Moriah, I think it was. Mount Moriah Baptist. D:	Mount Moriah Baptist.

	M:	Mount Moriah Baptist.



	G:	Outside of church when you were a child, what did your family do for leisure?



	M:	Oh, we went to the buses, the picnics. You go to the beaches, because we had quite a few beaches in New York that you could get to by subway. And my father, he would just, the meter would be down, and he used the taxi as his personal car. In there we go, and that’s how we got around. So, was a lot of going to the beaches and that type of thing, and visiting family. My Aunt Lilly, she always had dinner, and it was always this, and it was family and that type of thing.

	G:	Do you remember the names of the beaches that you guys went to? M:	God, you’re asking me to really go back!

	G:	It’s okay if you don’t—



	M:	No, there’s the beaches. They’re still—we didn’t go to Coney Island Beach.



Coney Island Beach. Orchard, Orchard was one. I just can’t remember.



	G:	No it’s fine. It’s fine. And when you went to the beach, was it segregated beach?



Was it predominantly—



	M:	No, no, no, no. But my mother had a way. She would just, my sister, and her, and I would go. She would get up early in the morning, be dark. And we’d get on that subway, it’d be dark. And when we get to the beach, the guy wouldn’t even open the thing yet. So, it’d be about—we were on the beach, and I enjoyed it. We’d sit there, you could smell the nice air and all that. And to me, when—then she’d be





ready to come home with us about twelve o’clock, because we got to the beach early.

	G:	So early.



	M:	Yeah. And you know, to me, when I saw this amount of people—I was ready to come home. [Laughter]

	G:	So, was she going so early to avoid all the people? M:	Yes, yes, yes.

	G:	Okay. Okay.



	M:	Yes, yes.



	G:	Do you now about your parents ever going to any kind of clubs, or any social groups?

	M:	Oh, constantly. G:	Constantly?

	M:	I remember that my mother was always with a club. She had a club. My father, I don’t remember him belonging to any clubs, but my mother yes.

	G:	Okay.



	D:	All right. Someone wants to see you at the door for a moment. M:	See me?

	D:	Yes.



[Break in recording]



G:  Okay. So, when we left off you were talking about going to the beaches, and how your mother would take you early to kind of avoid the rest of the people. Had you traveled down South as a child?





	M:	As a child, yes. I remember that. I remember coming down maybe a couple of times. And I do remember sitting there once at the table; everybody was around the table, and they all start eating, and I wouldn’t. And my mother would say, “Honey, what’s wrong? Why won’t you eat?” I said “I don’t eat with a spoon.” [Laughter] And so, whoever it was, she got a fork for me and she said, “Bertha got a New York child!” [Laughter]

	G:	And when you would travel down South, would you travel by bus, would you travel by car?

	M:	No, Dad would just put us in the taxi. G:	He would drive the taxi?

	M:	All the way down there!



	G:	From New York? [Laughter] M:	Yup, yup.

	G:	What was your father’s interactions like with your family from down South?



	M:	I never noticed it one thing or the other. I never noticed it one way or the other.



He was very friendly with everybody. He was a friendly person. He got along with everybody.

	G:	Okay.



	D:	And I’m interested in how he used his cars; both business and pleasure, right? M:	Well, he was paying for the cab.

	D:	He was paying for the cab. So, he was self-employed? M:	Yeah. Yes.





	D:	Okay. Now, did you guys ever have an experience where he was going to the beaches, or going to lumber yards and making money on the side, outside of him working as a taxi driver? Or was he—

	M:	Oh no, no, no. Only—no, only thing that I remember is that once, he picked up someone on Fifth Avenue. It was a woman, Mrs. McGuire. And she liked the way he drived, and so she hired him to be her private chauffeur. So he gave up the cab after that, and he worked for her full-time as private chauffeur. Because she couldn’t drive around. Her family wanted her to be able to get around when she wanted to. And I remembered her coming to visit us, and he’d bring her in into the block, and we’d run over to the car, and she’d say, “I want to see you. Stand tall, stand tall because Christmas is coming. I want to measure you for your Christmas stocking.”

	D:	Was this a white woman? M:	Yes. Yes.

	D:	This is a White woman. M:	Ms. McGuire.

	D:	Oh Ms. McGuire.



	M:	Once I remember us going to her house in south Campton. She had us there for a week or two weeks, I don’t remember. And next door lived the people with the Bond Bread. B-O-N-D, but that’s not even used anymore. You know that’s—but what I always remembered about that is they told my father, “When your children come, be sure to bring them over to see us, to say hello to us.” I remember Dad taking us through the trees that night, and in front of it was a gazebo, and they





were all sitting in the gazebo. And Dad came with the two of us. And I always remembered when they saw it was him, and it was the two of us, the men immediately stood up. All the men stood up for us, and you know, I just thought that was so nice. You know? And such respect they showed. Because here’s this Black chauffeur with his two little Black children, and the men stood up. And I never forgot that. My sister played with one of the little Bond children, one of the children on the beach, because it was a private beach. And I said, “Well at least you did play them.”

	G:	So through your father being this private chauffeur, then that allowed your sister and you to kind of have access to some spaces that you would never have.

	M:	Absolutely! Absolutely!



	G:	So, the beach was one. Were there other places that you guys kind of got to go to where you wouldn’t regularly be welcomed?

	M:	I only remember, besides her house on Fifth Avenue, we went to her house on Fifth Avenue, and—

	S:	And then the private beach.



	M:	And the private beach and so forth. But I got very used to that. And I found that even as my daughter came along, just her and I. And I was used to the area. And I’d take her down, and we’d go to these private showings. Anybody could come in, but they were private showings and so forth. And I didn’t find myself intimidated by them. I just went on in. You know, I remember one time I went in, and they were very nice and very nice, and finally a lady came up to me, she says, “You know, it’s expected for you to pay for that program.” That’s how they





get their donation! She said, “But that’s all right. I just wanted to let you know for the future.”

	M:	You know, and she was just nice to me.



	G:	Was there a wider West Indian community in New York that your father was a part of, or did you interact with other West Indian people?

	M:	Oh yeah I interacted with—mainly, it seemed I was interacting with West Indian people.

	G:	So that was most of the Black community where you were living, was West Indian people?

	M:	Right, right.



	G:	Okay.



	M:	Maybe not where I was living, but the ones who I interacted with. As such. Because by that time, we had cars and things, so you weren’t limited to a neighborhood.

	G:	Okay, okay. And so, you said your father was paying for the taxi, so is that the car that your family also used as well?

	M:	Yes, yes, yes, yes. G:	Okay, okay.

	M:	But then I guess, too, it took the burden off of him for paying for maybe deciding this was a good time to get rid of it. Because now he had a job that would pay good.

	G:	Right.



	M:	So he got rid of having to pay for the taxi and so forth.





	G:	Did your other childhood peers, did their families have cars too? Or were you guys special in that way?

	M:	No as a matter of fact, it’s ironic, but to the West Indian peers of my family in New York, we were lower on the totem pole. Because—

	G:	Like, class-wise?



	M:	Right, with possessions-wise. Because one uncle owned a fleet of trucks. Another one owned a fleet of taxis, and had a garage. So when my father stopped working for Mrs. McGuire, he decided to go back and work for Uncle Thenstead as a taxi driver, rather than try to buy a taxi.

	G:	Oh, okay.



	M:	See? And then my other aunt, she had a two-story brick house in the Bronx, years before people had this. you know? And then, the one who had a line of taxis, she had a chauffeur.

	G:	Okay! [Laughter]



	M:	And she’s come by, and I’d say, “Ooh mom, you’re going out with Aunt Jo! And you know the chauffeur’s coming by to get you, you know?” Because my poor Momma was working in the laundry. So she said, “Uh huh, and she expects me to pick up?” She said, “No, I can’t take those places.” [Laughter] So my mother was not impressed.

	G:	And so your aunts and your uncles who were West Indian, did they come over at the same time as your father, or were they here before?

	M:	I don’t know.



	G:	You’re not sure.





	M:	I don’t know.



	G:	Okay.



	M:	I don’t know. As a matter of fact, just three months ago, my cousin—I went to, he lives in Stone Mountain, Georgia. And he lives in a lovely place. He’s in a retirement home. And I stayed with him with my granddaughter, and I stayed with him for a week. And if we didn’t want to go over to the clubhouse for a meal, they sent it to us. So we went over there and the valet parked your car. I said, “Things haven’t changed!” [Laughter] There’s them, and there’s me.

	G:	What did your aunts and uncles or your father, if anything, did they tell you about Jamaica? Did they—?

	M:	We never discussed it. It’s strange, but it just never came up. G:	Okay.

	M:	That I remember. Now, the only thing came up was they believed in—I remember Aunt Lily telling me “One thing: stay out of debt. You don’t have the money, you don’t need it. And get as much of a down payment on a house before you buy.” You know, I remember that: “Stay out of debt!” [Laughter] And I followed through all these years. I say even when I bought my house, two of my rooms stayed empty for a year because I had the money in the bank, but I never knew if something would come up. So I said “I’ll wait.” [Laughter] Until I had the money for that and the money in the bank.

	D:	I see.



	M:	So.





D:  I’ll change gears just a little bit. I’m interested in, how is it that your family stayed connected? Was there any kind of reunions that took place as you were growing up?

	M:	No.



	D:	Any family reunions? M:	No.

	D:	Okay. And secondly, in school, were you able to return back for any kind of reunions once you left?

	M:	No I couldn’t.



	D:	Any class reunions?



M:  No, it was too expensive for me, to do all those things. I couldn’t handle those. I was raising a child and working and all that. And I couldn’t spend my money on things like that.

D:  Okay and did you ever, like, keep a personal journal, or diary, or anything that kind of reflected your own memories?

	M:	Nah.



	D:	No? Okay. [Laughter] I understand. M:	What’s past is past.

	D:	Okay, okay. I never got your sisters name. I’m just— M:	Gloria.

	D:	Gloria. What is the personality differences between you and Gloria? You’re the oldest, but I wonder how you and Gloria got along.





	M:	I was the most sedate one, believe it or not. But Gloria was the one that always got in trouble.

	D:	Okay.



	M:	And I was always the one to try to get her out of it. [Laughter] D:	So did you help raise her in your own right, you feel like?

	M:	Well, she would run to me with a problem faster than she’ll go anyplace else.



Because I’d get her out of it. But Grandma stayed—once she came to New York to raise me in [19]25, she stayed until the day she died. Because then she took care of my sister, she raised my sister. So my grandmother was a heavy influence on all of us.

	G:	Okay. And you said that she talked to you about Joe Clark. M:	Right.

	G:	Were there other people or places that she talked to you about as far as in the South?

	M:	No, the only thing she said is that—no, she didn’t talk about any other places. Only, she loved her father. She admired her father. She was very proud of him. But she said that the stepmother was a mean woman. That she would say: “She was a mean woman!” And then the other thing she would say, and I think I put it in my book, she said her mother let her brush her hair. Because she could brush her hair, and she liked that.

	G:	Okay, and do you know what your grandmother was doing before she came to New York for a living?





	M:	I don’t think she was working at that time. Because by that time, my other aunts, she was staying with them. And she was just living with them, she wasn’t working anymore.

	G:	Okay. I wanted to talk to you a little but about school before the university. So can you talk a little bit about just anything you recall about elementary school? Any teachers that stood out, any books that you were taught that really stood out?

	M:	That really stood out? The only thing that hits me right away is I remember— you’re saying books?

	G:	Or anything! [Laughter]



	M:	No, but the only thing that hits me is I remember a teacher once saying that the only reason you’d smoke—because at that time it was a lot of smoking—is that you want to be the same as your peers, and you weren’t strong enough to be your individual self. And that stuck with me. Because I was saying “You’re not controlling me! I’m my own peer, I’m myself. I’m not trying to please you.” And, but other than that, school was just one—oh I know one thing. In Mrs. Alcott’s class, I felt that woman disliked me terribly. Because you were assigned newspapers. And children were assigned the Daily Mirror or the Daily News, whatever. She always assigned me The Times. And I felt, “Ugh!” She always gave me these tough assignments. And I said “She’s just being nasty to me.” And then she’d make me stand in front of—not in front of the class, but when I stand and I’m speaking, she’ll say, “Stop dropping those I-N-G’s; going, coming. You’re not ‘come.’” And she’d just make me say it over and over until I was ready





to cry almost, you know? I said, “That woman hates me so.” But you know, I realized afterwards to what extent, what she was doing. She saw the potential, and she was determined to push me, and to a night, I thank her for it.

	D:	Were there any corporal punishments at that time?



	M:	They did have corporal punishment, but that wouldn’t have been what would’ve stopped me. If the teacher had sent something home to my mother, I’d have gotten problems from my mother more so than the teacher! [Laughter] So it was easier to be better in school. You didn’t argue the point with a teacher, you know. But she didn’t ever hit me or anything. But you know, it’s just that was my childish way of thinking. But actually, it was the best thing that ever happened to me, to make me not slur my speech. But that’s about the only thing I could think of; that teacher. And I found that teachers, in going through school, the teachers who were serious and down to da-da-da-da, “No kidding around, I want this”; somehow, I seemed to learn like that with them. I don’t know if I was scared of them or what, but I just found it more effective. Maybe they also had more control in the class. So because they had control in the class, I was able to get more out of them. But nothing outstanding or anything.

	G:	When you were in high school, did you do any extracurriculars, did you play sports, were you on the—?

	M:	No I was in the debating class. As a matter of fact, I was president of the debating thing. Because you can see, I can talk. [ Laughter] And that I miss, because now so often people just want to tell you about themselves. And they don’t listen, you know. And I like to listen. And I like to hear different things. You





don’t have to agree with me. And just because I listen to you doesn’t mean I’m going to do what you say. But it might be something you’re saying that might get me to question what I’m thinking. So I like to listen. And then, that’s about—so in the debate, I did enjoy that. You don’t even hear debates anymore. That’s it. But other than that, no.

	G:	And this is going to kind of be random, but I wanted to know when you were growing up, you and your sister, even your mom, did you guys go to hair salons to get your hair done? Did you get your hair done at home?

	M:	Oh, at salons.



	G:	Okay.



	M:	Oh God, yes!



	G:	The salon, okay. [Laughter]



	M:	I say that because I went to this particular hairdresser. It was the In-Thing Landeros. See, I remember your name? And he knows I would get there. So I’d get appointments for him at seven o’clock in the morning. Which was unheard of almost. But I just, my timing was so—with overtime and everything, I just didn’t have the time. So he gave me that time, and I walk into the place there once, and I remember one girl said, “Olga, it’s amazing. Your hair, I mean, it looks like you just came out the hairdresser!” [Laughter]

	D:	That’s hilarious.



G:  And when you were growing up, did you, or your sisters, or your mom, did you guys get your hair done regularly? Was it like you go to the salon for a special occasion?





	M:	Oh no, regular. G:	Regularly?

	M:	Regular.



	G:	Okay. And how would you wear your hair when you were younger?



	M:	In that time they had the sausage roll on top, and very up. Up in the style that defied the wind. [Laughter]

	G:	Would you get it pressed or straightened? M:	Oh, pressed. Definitely.

	G:	Pressed, got you. Okay. I know that was random, but I just needed to know. M:	No problem, no problem.

	D:	Now, I guess we haven’t had a complete understanding of how you transitioned to building your own family. And take us to that moment, and you know, the years that that started to really—

	M:	Well actually it was my cousin Clarice. It was her idea that, “Let’s go and visit this grandmother in Jamaica.” And I thought this was just, “Why not?” And she said, “We’re going on a plane that’s got four engines. So if one gives out, the other three will make it.” [Laughter] I always remembered that. So, we went to Jamaica. And she was more social than I was. And she met this guy, and she kind of wanted to go out with him. And she knew she’d never get permission unless I was—because I was supposed to be the “nuh” of the family. “Yeah, if Olga goes, it’s all right.” So they had to get a blind date for me. That was my first marriage. [Laughter]

	D:	Okay.





	M:	That was my daughter’s father.



	G:	Okay. And what do you recall about—so, that was your first time being in Jamaica.

	M:	Yes.



	G:	And so, what do you kind of recall about that experience going there for the first time?

	M:	It was interesting. I don’t even know—well I’ll tell you. My grandmother, looking at me and saying to me, “Lord, child; you’re Black!” And she was blacker than me.

	G:	Wow, okay.



	M:	I couldn’t get over that. [Laughter] Yeah I mean, I couldn’t get over it. I said, “How dare she?” What does she think my father was? You know? That’s her son! What did she expect him to have? You know but, over the years I have found the weirdest things in our race; the weirdest things. We do one thing, and then hope for something else. But then, I thought the island was beautiful and everything.

But I mean I found the talking, I remember saying—well, there was one particular aunt I liked, Aunt Atell. And I said, “Oh, I want to keep in touch with her.” And would she write down? No. Because the whole time I was there, it’s everything’s Aunt Atell, Aunt Atell, Aunt Atell. And so, she wrote it down. I said, “Ethel?” [Laughter] I said “Oh my God, is that what I was saying all the time?” So, that I found very amusing. But it’s all a matter of dialect. But anyway, it was—and what had happened is, I came home, and then he came to the States. And it progressed.

	G:	Okay.





	M:	So then of course, Carol came along. D:	That’s your daughter?

	M:	That’s my daughter. D:	All right.

	M:	And I only have one child. D:	All right.

	M:	Sorry to say she’s passed away. G:	I’m sorry.

	M:	But she went to Canada to the University of Prince Edward Island. Because at the time she was ready to go to school, university in the early [19]70s, the schools down here to me was going crazy. That’s when we start getting the co- ed dorms, and everything start going a little bit too crazy. I wasn’t used to that stuff. So a friend of mine said, “Send her to Prince Edward Island,” because she lived there and so forth. And so anyway, she wound up meeting her husband there. Because he comes from there. And of course, needless to say, she moved up there. And that’s why my grandchildren are there now, and my great-grands are there.

	D:	Okay. So, now that I got a good idea of how you developed family and friends, how is it that you decided that you going to move to Florida outside of just the weather alone and Disney, right? Because I know you may have heard of Disney, but I’m just curious to know if there was any other factors that were pushing you other than Disney and the weather?





	M:	No. Because I lived in Greenwood Lake, New York by that time. And the snow would be, like, over your head. And I remembered my husband, with the tractor, snow, snow, snow. And he’d come in and—. [Panting] I said, you know, he can’t take this. You saw reading these guys dropping dead of heart attacks, dealing with that snow. I said “Unh-uh; we got to get out of here.”

	D:	I see.



	M:	So I ran all the way to the other side of the States. D:	Okay, okay.

	M:	So that’s what pushed me out.



	D:	I understand. Obviously, the sunny weather wasn’t so bad. M:	That’s right.

	D:	Okay. Is there anything else you would like to share with us that you know that we may have overlooked?

	M:	Well actually, your interview has been on me, which I’m very flattered but, I really was about Joseph Clark. Because he’s the one that I was so concerned that I didn’t see enough about him. And so I wound up with six and a half years of research. I have a lot of research material. And I found him in slavery in Covington, Georgia. I tracked him from slavery into Chattanooga, Tennessee.

And then from Tennessee, I tracked him into Georgia. And from Georgia into Florida. So, I mean, that to me, I feel—the fact that this man came out of slavery and did all this was just so fantastic. So fantastic. And this town is still together, Eatonville, and—it’s two things that’s not that well known—well, one is well known, one is not—that really kept it together, is the fact, there again: listening.





When he was exposed to what they were doing in Maitland, he listened, he looked, he absorbed. Therefore, that’s why he incorporated Eatonville. I mean, you can’t always—you’ve got to go out of yourself. Sometimes people stay in their little circles so much that it’s just, you like this, you like that. You like this— Hey, you’re not getting any place. You’re in a box. You got to get out that box. And you got to listen to what, and look at what somebody else is doing, and seeing what the end result is. And he obviously saw the end result—not the end result, but the goodness of being incorporated. And that’s one of the reasons why Eatonville is still there today. And the other thing is, because I found the original deed that gave this land to Joe Clark. And in it someone had inserted a clause that’s in the deed of this, that’s little known, that you could not open a house of ill repute and all that anyplace within these certain—. And that’s the only thing that has kept the gambling houses and all of them on the outskirts of Eatonville.

Because of that’s what’s in those deeds. Now, other towns have gone down— and I read the background of what’s happened in other towns—and other towns have gone down because the people of that type have moved right into it, next door to a church, with the gambling, and with the this, and all that type of thing going on. So naturally, the good people of the town picks up, moves away. What else? So between the corruption and the people who take advantage of these things, it has destroyed other Black towns. And that’s the only reason that Eatonville has stayed as strong it has. Those are the two major things. And of course, there’s been a lot of good people over the years who have really put a lot into it. But then, there’s also been other people who’ve been just the opposite.





You know? But the strong part of it has been because of those two things: incorporation and what was in that deed, and what is in those deeds.

	G:	Can you talk a little bit more about—because you said you wanted to research your grandfather because there wasn’t a lot about him, so can you talk about where you were finding things written about him? Like, your actually research process?

M:  Whoa! Four pages of this in my book! I’ve been into all the different colleges. I’ve had the white gloves on and gone through the security thing in so many different places. I’ve lived in the Downtown Orange County.

D:   Archives?



M:   The micro—



G:   Microfilm?



	M:	The microfilm. I mean, that’s where I found the slavery census. I’ve gone through census and all that and so forth. And that’s how I’ve tracked him. The Census is the best place for information. And I’ve tracked everybody because of the Census. But yet, the Census you always have to take with a little grain of salt, because it wasn’t always the most intelligent people who were the census takers that came into the Black communities. You know? So therefore, sometimes some things were turned around. But I’ve seen some very—some things are really funny. Because other times, people lie! There’s no other way around it. I mean, this census, these are Black, and when I see them ten years later, they’re mulatto. [Laughter] I mean! You have to laugh! So you have to take some things with a grain of salt.





	G:	Okay.



	M:	But the basic things are there.



	G:	Okay. Okay, and you said you have a book coming out? M:	No dear, I already wrote it.

	D:	It’s already out.



	G:	Okay. What’s the title of your book, so we can—?



	M:	From Slavery to Town Father. And it’s on Amazon. And the libraries have them.



The Eatonville library has now I know for sure, and a video. The video is just about three years ago. The book got put out in 2003. But I really studied it heavy. And the major thing is I loved talking to people like yourself, because I want you to have this information. I have a lot of research material. I’ll be glad to show it to you. It’s nothing I want to keep. I want it out there for people to know about the town. These guys who went before. Yes, I’m very proud of my grandfather, there’s no doubt about it. But he wasn’t alone. There were others there, and they dropped off the radar. I looked for them in the—they left Eatonville, and nothing has shown in the Census or anything. I haven’t been able to pick them up at all.

	D:	I see. So, Eatonville is incorporated in the later part of the 19th century. 18— M:	1887.

	D:	[19]87. 1887 and it’s named after Josiah Eaton? And—



	M:	Now, wait a minute. Yeah, Joshua Eaton was sort of—he was basically Joe Clark’s employer when he first came into Florida. And they found it just interesting that Joseph Clark had an actual education because everybody—you know, at that time, Blacks didn’t have education. But when they went to





Tennessee, in Chattanooga, Tennessee—see that’s why I wanted to find out, where did he get this education from?

	D:	Sure, sure.



	M:	And that’s in Chattanooga, Tennessee, that’s where they offered slaves education; free education. So he got that and then the whole time he was in Georgia, that was the thing. If I knew something, I charge you maybe fifty cents and I’ll teach you that book of it. You know what I mean? So that was the kind of thing. That’s how they—it wasn’t a formal schooling, but you picked up something here, you picked up something here, or—that one, he really knows how to cipher. You know, or he knows how to this, or that. So you picked up something from everybody that you can. So that’s how they was a hit-and-miss- type thing. And so, because of his interest in schooling, he kept doing this. But he got his basic in Tennessee.

	D:	Just give me the timeline here, when was Joseph Clark born? M:	[18]59.

	D:	[18]59. 1859?



	M:	1859.



	D:	Okay, so I have 1859. He incorporates Eatonville in 1887? M:	Right.

	D:	And then, between 1859 and 1887, he goes from slavery, to self-education, to Georgia, to Florida, and incorporates his hometown.

	M:	That’s right! Thank you! [Laughter] That’s why this is what’s so—to know his life, so that children read and hear this: it’s possible. You can have a dream and you





can do it. You know? But it’s possible. And remember in 1859, when he was born, it was in slavery.

	D:	Yes, yes.



	M:	In slavery.



	D:	In Georgia? Was that in Georgia? M:	In Covington, Georgia.

	D:	In Covington, Georgia?



	M:	In Covington, Georgia. And he wasn’t out of slavery until [18]65. So, he was six years old.

	D:	Okay [18]65, freedom with the war?



	M:	Right. He got his freedom with the war.



	D:	Wow. And his parents are taking care of him in this period? M:	Yes, yes. And the parents left the plantation with him.

	D:	I see, and later he went to—is that when he went to Tennessee? M:	They went to Chattanooga, Tennessee.

	D:	Chattanooga, Tennessee. Okay. I’m from Knoxville, Tennessee. M:	Really?

	D:	Yeah, and Chattanooga, Tennessee is not the place for opportunity now, so I can only imagine! I mean, it’s very small.

	M:	Uh-huh.



	D:	You know, was there a particular industry there that was taking place?



	M:	Yes his father was a drayman. And he worked with his father from when he was ten years old. At ten years old, he was working with his father as a drayman.





	G:	And can you explain what that is for the—?



	M:	Oh, it’s when you want to move things from one place to another, you get a drayman to move it, because he has a cart that has sides that collapse and so forth. So, it’s really the forerunner of the moving van.

	G:	Okay. Okay.



	M:	That’s what it amounts to. And so yes, you’re right, I didn’t go that far into Chattanooga. That would also explain why his brother Henry—evidently, when Joseph left Chattanooga, Henry must have left with him. Because I picked up Henry in Maitland, and they both signed the Maitland Charter. They both signed the Maitland, what you call it? Yeah.

	D:	Incorporation.



	M:	Right. So, they’re incorporation neighbors. They both signed it. So it might not have been that much opportunity there. And of course, it’s near Pulaski.

	D:	Oh! Pulaski, Tennessee! Its founder [inaudible 1:01:18] the KKK.



	M:	Yeah! [Laughter] You got it. As a matter of fact, that’s what, ten to one, got him out of there. Because in 1866 is when the KKK formed. Actually, it really formed as a social club, and then evolved into—but, you know, there again, even with that it, was skullduggery in a respect within themselves. They had all these different little cells, little cells, but they were getting money. You know? Some probably, “Get ‘em, get ‘em, yeah, yeah, yeah,” but they were picking up money. Just like they—you know, because I just recently went to Stone Mountain, Georgia. And because the second rising of the KKK was there in Stone Mountain in 1915. And that’s when they said, nope, they’re gonna start it all again. And





they were all around there getting so much money from this, and then you could sell this to that. You know? It always comes down to power and money. I don’t care, those models and things they keep talking—not models, but headlines they give you? Forget them. Think: where’s the money? What money is involved?

Who’s after the power? What power is it they’re after? And then you get an answer.

	D:	Wow. So, this is an interesting life; Joe Clark. M:	It is!

	D:	This is something that I mean, I’m glad you’ve written on it, and it’s so powerful because it’s your grandfather. And that starts to take into consideration, you know, ownership, and how you have some rights to places that may have been forgotten.

	M:	Oh I’m sure—I found all these papers that I saw, the papers where they lied, but you had one year to say that they were lying. So it’s long past due. And I couldn’t care less. I really couldn’t care less. And that’s why I think that maybe some people here might have thought that I was going to come here and start flexing my muscles or whatever, but the courts don’t give you forever to question things. And I couldn’t care less. What would I want?

	D:	Yeah.



	M:	I’m happy where I am. D:	Sure.

	M:	You know? And there’re no pockets in a shroud. And I’m ninety years old. What the devil do I want? [Laughter]





	D:	But to establish the record. M:	Right!

	D:	Set the record straight.



	M:	I just want the record straight for him. You know, him and the guys who—I don’t like this cloudiness of the beginning. Nobody can get a straight answer. It shouldn’t be! It should be straightforward. They don’t even spell his name right when you go down to the museum downtown. They got an exhibit for him and it shows “Clarke,” spelt with a “E”. Well, that was Zora did that. Zora did it because that was their way so you can’t sue them and say she was writing about a real person. So that’s why she threw “E” on it; because then you can’t say that. Now, I could prove through the Census and through what came from Washington D.C, his application for postmaster from the archives of the United States government, and he’s without a “E”. [Laughter] So I mean, he doesn’t have a “E.”

	D:	On his name?



	M:	In his name. So when Zora put in an “E” she was covering herself, which authors do. I mean there’s no harm in that. It’s just that people should just accept the fact that Zora is a folklorist. She’s a great one. And they tell any real author, “Write about something you know or something you’ve seen.” So I mean, she was doing nothing wrong, and then you write about what would sell. So I mean, there was nothing wrong she was doing. But it’s just the perception of people of thinking of it as the real Eatonville is what bothers me.

	G:	So do you think Zora’s writing has kind of overshadowed some of the other factual stuff that—?





	M:	Well, it has been made to do so. G:	Okay.

	M:	That’s what it is. Not that it has. Because when you consider their lives and what these guys went through; and even the night of the incorporation, the wives all got together in one house because they were so afraid. They’d been threatened; their lives and everything, if they incorporated. Because the Whites were so afraid that if they incorporated and got together, first thing they gonna do is turn around and kill them. And so, they didn’t want to incorporate. And two, it was supposed to be twenty-nine men that signed that corporation papers; only twenty-seven signed it. Because two didn’t show up. But that wasn’t bad. Out of twenty-nine, only two didn’t show up. But two were taken in by this intimidation. And the wives were there frightened to death.

	G:	Can you talk a little bit more about things you’ve learned about the wives of these men, and what their roles were?

	M:	Well that’s the particular point of—that’s the only time that I was involved with something about the wives.

	G:	Okay, they’re not in the incorporation.



	M:	Right. It was with the incorporation. And that, I only heard a first cousin, I just met a first cousin, and unfortunately he died last year or the year before last; Alexander. Because Catherine Alexander—let’s see, Joseph Clark started the post office. In 1918 for whatever reason, the United States government closed it. Catherine Alexander opened it again about 1950, which I think—and she was Joseph Clark’s niece, because she was Joseph Clark’s brother’s child. So I think





that’s fantastic in itself. The two within the family should do that. You don’t have to—this is the real stuff. You know, so you don’t have to make up little, “She fell out swinging on a fence, haha!” Oh, come on! You know because these people, they had a boys and girls scouts; they had parties; they did fine. They were written up in the New York Times and the New York Sun. To what extent the quality of this town was, and how—you know she’s writing about a different—but she was writing about what would sell. And she did a very good job. So I don’t want to in any way criticize, I just want to put it in its perspective. That’s all.

That’s all. Because if all that publicity about her like that didn’t go through, they would’ve kept this alive. So they kept this alive until fellows like you came along; the younger ones, that generation. Because that generation hey somehow we could get through to. [Laughter]

	D:	Okay. Well, you got it through today. And it’s on record. [Laughter] I just have a question about Joe Clark. Was he this—you said that he was this big figure. Not necessarily, I don’t know if you meant physical, or were you saying he was also big in—was he intimidating?

	M:	No. I don’t know, he might have been intimidating. D:	Okay.

	M:	But he wasn’t large. D:	Okay, okay.

	M:	Definitely not.



	D:	Okay, and did he ever have any other goals after he incorporated Eatonville? Did he go and do anything else?





	M:	Oh God, yes! Oh yes, he was—well, with the Eatonville paper, Eatonville Speaker, he wrote in that. He was doing a lot of things. It’s in my book.

	D:	Okay. We’ll read the book! [Laughter]



	M:	Yeah it’s in my book, the things that he’s done.



	G:	Were you able, because you’ve done an extensive amount of research, were you able to kind of figure out or summarize how these men went about kind of protecting themselves, right? Because they’re doing something that’s very dangerous at the time. So were you able to see if there was anything they were doing to protect themselves, or any kind of groups they had formed?

	M:	Well they had this lodge, isn’t it a lodge? They were very close. I would say they protected themselves by sticking together. They stuck together. That was their protection. And I can’t remember the name of the lodge. That’s in my book, I’m sure.

	D:	Any confrontation?



	M:	And women had the House of Ruth.



	G:	Okay. Can you explain what the House of Ruth is?



	M:	Well let’s see, it’s a lodge for women. And “Where thou goes, I will go,” and—it’s all in my book. [Laughter]

	G:	Okay, okay.



	D:	Secret society perhaps? Is there something you don’t want to share? It’s okay! [Laughter]

	M:	I believe I got the book. D:	Okay, okay.







M:

And boy, it’s funny; their secrets were—!

D:

Okay.

M:

It was really something.

G:

Okay, the lodges.

M:

The lodges, that’s what it is. The lodges. So by lodges, they all stuck together by





G:

lodges. So by sticking together, I’d say that was the secret.



Yeah just kind of staying in that group, staying in that space together, got you.

M:

Right, right. The word would get around, and, “This is the way we’re gonna do it.”





G:

And they acted as one.



Okay, okay.

D:

I got you, I got you. Okay, I don’t know. Randi?

G:

That’s all I have. [Laughter]

D:

Wow, I think we just have to read the book! [Laughter]

M:

I think so, too. And once you do, then, call me.

G:

Yes!

D:

Yes!

M:

Right and I’ll be glad to—

G:

We’ll do part two.

M:

And I’ll be glad to let you look at the things I have, including the Eatonville



Speaker. I have the entire paper, newspaper.

G:

Nice!

D:

Okay.





	M:	So, I’d be only too glad to let you see it, because what’s the point of it being settled in nice and quietly? You know, so you’re more than welcome.

	D:	Okay, well I thank you. M:	Thank you!

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Sandra Romero, March 30, 2016 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, June 29, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 26, 2019