AAHP 609; Harris; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 609 Mattie Harris 6-20-2018 Interviewed by Julian Valdivia on June 20, 2018

50 minutes | 26 pages



Abstract: Interviewer Julian Valdivia sits down with Mattie Harris, a Fort Meyers elder born in 1935. Harris’s father worked on a railroad and ran a tobacco farm in central Florida, which he received as part of his inheritance from his grandfather. Harris’s family moved from Florida to Brooklyn, New York, where her father was drafted into the service in industrial labor at the outbreak of World War II. Harris then moved to Miami after the death of her mother and attended Booker T. Washington High School while living with her grandmother. She returned to her hometown in Colombia County, Florida, where she completed high school at Richardson High in Lake City. She attended Gibbs Junior College and began taking classes at Florida A&M University, but marriage and the challenges of raising children prevented her from finishing her degree. She moved to Milton, Florida, where higher education opportunities for African Americans were virtually nonexistent, which eventually led to her family’s migration to Lee County. In Lee County, Harris took classes at Edison, University of South Florida, and Barry University, earning a degree in elementary education. She worked at the department of health and rehabilitation for a period of time, then as a substitute teacher, then began working as a reading teacher under a program called Title I in Lee County. Now, Harris keeps busy by acting as the historian for Mount Olive, a church in the Fort Meyers community.



Keywords: [Fort Meyers, Lee County, Florida, Black community, family history, tobacco, World War II, FAMU, HBCU, teacher, educator]



AAHP 609

Interviewee: Mattie Harris Interviewer: Julian Valdivia Date: June 20, 2018



V:   This is Julian Valdivia with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. I’m sitting here at the Lee County Black History Society in Roberto Clemente Park in Fort Myers, Florida and today I will be interviewing—

H:   Mattie Harris.



	V:	Alright, Mattie Harris, thank you for being with us today and the first thing I wanted to ask is how to spell your name.

	H:	First name is M-A-T-T V:	M-A-T-T—

	H:	-I-E.



	V:	-I-E.



	H:	Last name Harris H-A-R-R-I-S.



	V:	H-A-R-R-I-S okay, perfect. That’s just for the ease of our transcribers so that they don’t go crazy trying to figure how the name’s properly spelled. Okay, so this interview is really, because like I said I’m doing this for my thesis, I want to talk about like life, well actually first I should ask, what year were you born into?

	H:	1935.



	V:	Okay, 1935. What I’m thinking I want to focus my thesis on is like desegregation and things like that.

	H:	Okay.



	V:	So a lot of my questions are going to be around there. H:	No problem.





	V:	So growing up in 1935 then, what did your parents do for a living?



	H:	My father actually was what they call a railroad man. He also owned a farm which had been, is part of the inheritance from my grandfather who owned a great deal of property in north central Florida near Gainesville.

	V:	Alright and so was it like, working on the railroad was his full time job or—



	H:	Yes, it was. He worked full time. So was my grandfather, they were farmers as well as railroad men.

	V:	Okay, do you know how much land they owned up by Gainesville or was it just? H:	My grandfather owned hundreds of acres of land and he homesteaded the land and we still have it in our possession, some of it, today. My grandfather worked

on the railroad during the day, at night he would clear land in Colombia County.



	V:	Oh wow.



	H:	Which is attached to Alachua County which is where Gainesville is, I think. At the end of a certain amount of clearing of land, he would go to Lake City, Florida which was a county C and registered the land and forty-one part of the property was purchased by the state. Which forty-one, which we call four forty-one there, forty-one, four forty-one, runs directly through the property. And my father did follow in his father’s footsteps, he was a railroad man as well as a farmer.

Tobacco farmers, they were tobacco farmers.



	V:	Oh okay, so did you guys live in Fort Myers at the time or did you— H:	No we lived in Colombia County.

	V:	Yep.





	H:	And then we moved to Brooklyn, New York and then we moved to Miami then back to Colombia County.

	V:	Oh wow, so you guys have a heck of a journey there. H:	I have a heck of a journey, yes.

	V:	Okay, so then how long did you live in Colombia County initially? H:	Oh until I was approximately eight years old.

	V:	Okay, and then you said you moved to Brooklyn first. H:	Brooklyn, New York, yes.

	V:	Why did your family decide to move to Brooklyn? H:	Well, guess it was just a change of scenery.

	V:	And then eight years that was the middle of the war too. Did the war have any— or World War II— did that have any kind of impact on your family at all?

	H:	Yes it did, as a matter of fact my father was in the service, but he was never a soldier. But most men had to serve in those days, even my father who had four children by this time and he was he worked on the part where they planted the trees and things like that. Yeah, I can still remember the day that World War II was declared, the Sunday it was declared. I remember us coming from church and my father making us be quiet because he was listening to the radio to see what in the world was going on. I can still remember that.

	V:	Yeah, see listening to, I don’t know I think it was like the, Roosevelt— H:	Yeah, Roosevelt.

	V:	Yeah where, I’m trying to remember what the speech was but he was like on his day—





	H:	This was like a fireside chat that he had and he was you know declaring the war and the why and reasons why we should enter into the war.

	V:	Okay, and so while you were in Brooklyn then, so your father was in the service, was he stationed then in—

	H:	He was stationed in, what is it, no he was never out of the state of Florida. The name of the camp completely I’ve forgotten but it was somewhere near Jacksonville, Florida where he was stationed.

	V:	Okay, so then you were in Brooklyn then with your mother I’m assuming. H:	Uh-huh, and sisters and brothers.

	V:	Okay, what did your mother do while in Brooklyn?



	H:	My mother, she was a housewife, she never really worked out of the house. V:	Okay.

	H:	Which was not uncommon in those days, especial people who lived in the rural areas of Florida. The women did not usually work out of the house, it was enough work surrounding the house, keeping the family going that you didn’t have time to have outside jobs unless for some reason I guess the father was not in the home, but that was uncommon in those days. Unlike most popular stories tell you, most families, Black families, had a father and a mother and children and the mother did not work except around the house. She was the housewife and she kept the family, she cooked, and she made sure that—quilt—you know she made you that kids had clothes and made clothes and this and that and the other.

	V:	Uh, sorry I didn’t mean to cut you off there, you can keep going.





	H:	No I was just saying it was, most rural families were families: mother, father, children. But the women did not work outside the home, except during the tobacco seasons, families would help each other you know.

	V:	Yeah, so then did your father then finance you all staying in Brooklyn? H:	Yes.

	V:	Okay and you went to school around there and things like that? H:	Yes, yes.

	V:	Besides like change of scenery and things like that, were there any better educational opportunities up in Brooklyn or?

	H:	I’m not sure that that would have applied to me because I was in elementary school and elementary school as available to all the kids, all children in Colombia County through the 6th grade I believe it was. As far as in the rural part of Colombia County that I come from and that area is called Bethlehem. Bethlehem, Florida and the school as I said was available through the eighth grade and from there is where the disparity came in. Because there were no high schools you need to have— my daddy would’ve had to move us to Lake City or some other place to go further, to get high school education. So I’m not saying that by moving Brooklyn that I was better off, because I’m sure my dad would’ve let me live in Lake City ad complete high school and then attend one of the local colleges in one of the two universities in Florida.

	V:	So while you were in Brooklyn then, what is your strongest memory from there that you can remember?





	H:	My strongest memory is, believe it or not, attending school. I loved school there and being able to go to the beaches and the museums and things like that. I think maybe I had a better exposure to the classics and things like that because we lived in Brooklyn and the teachers would take us on field trips to different museums and even plays. That’s where I saw the play for the first time, Hamlet, and I really enjoyed that. So, there was some advantage like exposure to culture that I would not probably have been able to obtain in Colombia County, Florida.

So I loved that, I loved the area, I loved the tall buildings and stuff like that but I couldn’t wait to get away from the tall buildings too because I’m a native Floridian and I love it.

	V:	So going off that then, when did your family cause—okay I’m trying to remember now—so you moved from Brooklyn to Miami after this then?

	H:	Right.



	V:	So when did you move to Miami then?



	H:	1950 we moved to Miami. My mother passed away while we were in New York so she’s buried in Evergreen Cemetery there in New York, in Brooklyn, and then we moved to Miami and my dad was still working on the railroad but my grandmother came and took charge of us and there was two high schools at that time in Dade County that were available to Black people and that was a school called Booker T. Washington and there was a Dorsey High School which was a rural part of Dade County at that time. I enjoyed attending Booker T. Washington, it was a huge school because it was a large population of African-Americans by this time in Dade County and so it was a big, big school. I had attended school,





what would be called junior high school now in Brooklyn but there was no football teams and stuff like that they geared you towards some kind of vocation and of course, now we go back, you said what did I enjoy? I enjoyed going to the Dodgers game and that kind of thing. The Dodgers were in Brooklyn at that time.

	V:	Yeah.



	H:	So I enjoyed that.



	V:	So basketball was big thing then up there? Oh wait no Dodgers is baseball. Yes that’s right.

	H:	They moved to California but it was the Brooklyn Dodgers and the New York Yankees other than that there were no teams in the world as far as I was concerned.

	V:	When you were in Brooklyn and Miami, how did you communicate or keep in touch with your father? Was it over the phone or?

	H:	No everything was by letter in those days. V:	Yep.

	H:	Letter or postcard. If you were able to make a phone call that was I don’t know what you could equate that to in today’s society but a phone call would’ve been unbelievable. In the first place, they charge you by the minute for the phone calls so you know, you couldn’t talk very long, and if you did, if someone was lucky enough to have a phone and you could talk as long as you want, you were going to get a huge bill at the end of the month. Most people just did you know call the operator, put so much money in, and you could speak to for two to three minutes





and when that time was up they would cut you off. Letter was the big communication way of communicating in those days.

	V:	And so did you get letters from your father like every week and stuff like that?



	H:	No, not every week, he was not a big letter writer but when he would you know ‘cause he had sent funds and all that and he would write it. We would write these long letters to him and he would just answer short. [Laughter] He was not a big letter writer.

	V:	Did he ever visit you guys while you up there like I mean I know he was always working with your grandfather on like the railroad and the farms.

	H:	Yeah, he would come but we basically, we would come south. V:	Oh, okay.

	H:	Yeah, we would come during the summer and that didn’t last very long of us you know coming because after my mother passed away of course we moved back to Florida. But we would look forward to—we would take what was called a big train in those days. You know you take the [inaudible 14:42] from New York down to Florida and that was a big thing and those days, we were children, but we could travel alone and feel perfectly safe.

	V:	That’s the one different thing about this time like, this is the interview about you, but just hearing about that like it never—like I can’t imagine that—

	H:	You can’t imagine that.



	V:	In my mind basically. I was born in 1997, I can’t imagine that in my mind.



	H:	Not only did you feel safe on the train, traveling, but when we were in, this is after we had moved back to Colombia County, I was in high school then, lot of use of





high school, but my sister and I would walk for miles to church at night for choir rehearsal. You felt perfectly safe walking down the road, that’s one thing that this younger generation can’t experience that safety of being able to just go wherever you want to go, whenever you feel like it and walk by yourself or travel by yourself and feel perfectly safe. Except for getting lost, you didn’t have a problem.

	V:	Especially at night too without any lights.



	H:	We didn’t have any lights, but we knew where we were going. V:	So like the light of the moon was enough to walk around?

	H:	Absolutely, you travel by the light of the moon, that’s right, you’re absolutely right. V:	So then when did you move out of Miami then?

	H:	Let’s see we moved to Miami— I moved at 1953 back to— we moved back to Colombia County and then I graduated in 1954 from Richardson High School in Lake City.

	V:	Okay, and then did you go to one of the HBCUs in Florida? H:	Yes.

	V:	Okay, which one?



	H:	Well I attended, I started out at Gibbs Junior College, this was in St. Petersburg. Then I took classes at Florida A&M, but I didn’t complete my classes because by this time I was married and I had two children and so my husband and I, we moved to Milton, Florida and there was no school there that was available to me or to, I should say, minorities. And we were too far away from Tallahassee for me to attend Florida A&M so for the next few years I just took classes here and





classes there and we moved to Lee County. I took classes at Edison and University of South Florida, you know they would just— class here and class there and finally then I went full time to Barry University.

V:  What were you getting your degree in? H:  My degree is in elementary education. V:   Oh okay so you’re a teacher?

	H:	Well I was, but I never really taught very long. I got a job with the department of health and rehabilitation department. I worked there with them for years then I went back into the school system but I was only like a substitute teacher for a while and then I got a full time job working on the new program called title I in Lee County where by we would identify at risk kids for reading and they were put into a special reading program to bring their skills up.

	V:	Okay, so tell me then about when you moved—what was your husband’s name? H:	Sylvester Harris.

	V:	Okay, Sylvester Harris. When did you and Sylvester move to or move to Fort Myers then?

	H:	We moved to Fort Myers in 1963.



	V:	Okay, and then I saw you looking at the binder before, I’m assuming you attend Mount Olive?

	H:	Yes.



	V:	Okay.



	H:	Dead giveaway, I’m the historian for Mount Olive.





	V:	Oh okay, so then 1963 then at the time this was, how was— so this is just me asking, did Fort Myers have any kind of like response like in the same way that there was the national trend with the civil rights moment going on at the time?

	H:	It came into existence after that, remember the civil rights bill had been signed some years ago, but Lee County was still in the midst of segregation and I mean deep segregation. This area here where you live, front part there what is now Martin Luther King but the front part of this property, there was a lot of businesses along. Like people owned a lot of businesses along what was Anderson Avenue and this property, the front of this property, there was a grocery store that runs along that ditch there, there was a grocery store and there was another place called Tasty Freeze and that’s where all the teenagers hung out over the years. But this area was all little tiny buildings, houses, you know.

Schools were segregated and every aspect of Lee County was segregated and that was a reversal of Lee County you know if you go way part in the history because Black people didn’t always live in the segregated area, they used to live downtown Fort Myers like people there.

	V:	That was called Pinetucky right?



	H:	Pinetucky is over by what is now hospital area. No, Black people lived downtown Fort Myers.

	V:	Literally in downtown Fort Myers.



	H:	Downtown Fort Myers, down near where Edison Homes and those places like that, Black people used to live all along that area, First Street, Second Street, all along that Black people lived down there. There is the documentation to prove





that, but something came about and the county became totally segregated but it wasn’t. When we moved to Lee County, on the corner of Victoria and what is now Cleveland Avenue, there was a huge house right where there’s a car, there’s a car dealership there now. This was a huge two story building and Mrs. Velasco lived there. She was, they were a prominent Black family, her husband was one of the few doctors that lived here in Lee County and has an area named after him, Velasco Village, but that’s where they lived when we moved here. Right on the corner of Victoria and Cleveland Avenue and like, as I said, Black people lived downtown and whatever but getting back to your question Lee County was very, very segregated. One of my sociology books, even before we moved to Lee County, has a picture of this area, this very area here, showing the dilapidated housing then right next to that picture is a picture of McGregor Boulevard showing how you know the upscale the total division of disparity between the have and the have-nots in a sense.

	V:	Yeah, so I understand that Lee County basically maintained segregation for like—which I think is incredible even after the passage—I mean and this is also well after Brown v. Board of Education, first of all, but well off after the passage of the civil rights act Lee County is still segregated.

	H:	Yes, I mean deep segregation.



	V:	Yeah, I know that over at Friendships, Isadore Edwards was organizing people for sit ins and things like that.

	H:	Yeah, I worked around his committee.



	V:	Oh well then I could ask then, what was the committee?





	H:	Well it was a committee of persons in Lee County who were willing to work and confront the issues and bring in speakers and march if necessary, and we did do that, and call in different city officials and just do sit ins and whatever it took to try to bring a plight to the nation because it did no good, I’m sure, to just do it you know locally. It wasn’t getting anywhere and of course NAACP was pretty powerful in Lee County at that point and you know they would bring people who might be able to assist and break these bonds of segregation and he did an incredible job of working officials, working with the state, the United States, NAACP, and also the local officials to bring this into segregation. As I said, we did walk ins, sit ins, whatever it took to try to you know get it brought to the nation, the plight of Lee County.

	V:	This committee was this—‘cause I think I’ve heard about this—was this, I know it was organized by all the local churches right?

	H:	Right.



	V:	And then like at least prominent people within the churches went on the committee to do what you talked about. Were there any other people besides Isadore Edwards who were important in organizing everything?

	H:	Well you had people like Veronica Shoemaker and people like that who were not yet as prominent as she became because there were no, per se, you didn’t have prominent people in Lee County or are doctors and things like lawyers, we had no prominent attorneys, prominent doctors like you have nowadays. So Isadore Edwards and the ministers of Lee County were considered the prominent people. There were teachers but you know your principals had to be very careful, I mean,





your job was in control by the school board. They couldn’t very well just step out and leave, they had to, it had to be done by the church. That was the only independent agency that could confront people and not have to worry about our jobs.

	V:	Okay, so how did you end up like going like on the committee and stuff like then?



	H:	No, they ask people, someone came to the different churches and made the rounds and asked people if they would serve on the different committees and that’s—I chose to serve on one of the committees and just like a lot of people and then it became like one committee where we would all work together. The committees had, you know, had different jobs. Either take flyers and encourage people to come to the meetings and whatever, but uh, so it wasn’t that I was such a prominent person, it’s just that they were just simply asking people to work.

	V:	Yeah, doing your part. H:	Yes.

	V:	If I could ask then, what were like, I mean I was going to ask, what were like politics like? Like were African-Americans allowed to be involved in any kind of city politics at all?

	H:	No, and this is where Veronica Shoemaker comes in, we had a few Black deputies but not politics but I meant this is the extent of Black people working outside of the Dunbar community, was policemen or teachers, that was it. Now, Veronica worked diligently and she ran often and we would you know go around and help and help, knock on doors, whatever. But she ran I think twelve times





and finally the state, or maybe it was the county commissioner, I don’t know who did this but it was a city council person was county wide and city wide so she had a very little opportunity because of the low voting in Dunbar area, per se, against whatever minority, majority person would be running from another area. She could run from Dunbar all she want but she didn’t have enough, we didn’t have enough votes in this area to override votes coming in from county wide so finally when it became district, by district, that’s when she won.

	V:	Oh, okay.



	H:	City councilwoman and she was the first minority city council person.



	V:	I wanted to ask too, so how did voting work then cause one of the things I’ve always been confused about is I’m like well—‘cause I know how it works with the districts and stuff like. I was thinking to myself, well how is it that, like who would represent Dunbar then because I mean did they just like install some White guy then and say oh this guy speaks for Dunbar and stuff like that.

	H:	Yes, absolutely, in a sense that’s exactly what happened especially—and it’s still today. County commissioners as you noticed we’ve never had ever…Morgan served for a short time as a county commissioner but she was appointed to that position and no one has ever really won I think that’s going to have to do like the city council. It’s going to have to go district otherwise we’ll never going to have total representation. There has never been a real representative for the school board, a minority from this area.

	V:	On Lee County School Board?



	H:	They’ve never had a Black person serve on Lee County School Board.





	V:	Are you kidding me? H:	No.

V:   Okay, 2018. [Laughter]



H:  Yeah no minorities from the Dunbar area, never and it’s two-hundred and let’s see, 1884, 1887, this county was split into Lee County and to 2018, there has never a Black person on the school board.

V:   I still can’t believe that even with after they revived Dunbar High in 2000 right?



Even like—



	H:	Because it’s county wide and our base is very small compared to the rest of the county and even if we, if every minority voted for the minority that was running, the candidate that was running, their chances of winning are still, is still very slim.

	V:	Yeah and that’s assuming too that you can get everyone mobilized and stuff like that to vote, wow that’s incredible, I didn’t know about that.

H:   Yeah.



	V:	So then, just so I know, because I’m trying to become more educated about all this—

H:   But ask any question you want.



	V:	So with the district voting then, so when you’d get your ballot and stuff like that, before you voted for like city council persons and stuff like that, if you just lived in the county then you’d voted for county commissioners and things like that.

	H:	Yeah, uh-huh, well they had the city council but it was still not necessarily by district it was just several people would run for the county, I guess they had too many—let’s stick to city commissioner, city council person, so many would run





for city council and they would represent, someone would represent Dunbar in this area but it was still voted on county wide, no matter where they lived, you were voted on county wide.

	V:	Okay so then, that answers— H:	City wide, I should say city wide.

	V:	Yeah, that’s just, that was something that really confused me cause I was like well obviously they aren’t going to just like throw like, whatchamacallit, like it’s not like Dunbar which is completely out of Fort Myers. I always wondered well what did they just like tack it onto?

	H:	Dunbar is, that’s another stickler point for me, it’s not for persons who live here but it’s a stickler point for me because it’s called Dunbar and we have accepted that and it’s listed as Dunbar and this, that, and the other, but when you do the history of this area, it is called Safety Hill. That’s the name, it’s Safety Hill, Dunbar has been—it was supposed to been—it was a note when the news media got started calling it you know to report the news so you would know that you couldn’t call people Black people or other some other name. They would say someone from Dunbar area which means they live within that Dunbar High School vicinity, because remember this all was not necessarily Black out here.

This was white with flint and all of that [inaudible at 33:35] White people lived there, that part.

	V:	So with, well I know this is going beyond like what you experienced but you’re a historian at Mount Olive.

	H:	Yeah, uh-huh.





	V:	So then like the change from Safety Hill happened because like the news press just started calling it Dunbar.

	H:	Calling it Dunbar, that’s right. It was supposed to have been to let you know who this person is.

	V:	Yeah, huh, okay.



	H:	You didn’t have to say the race all you had to say, lived in the Dunbar area.



	V:	Yeah, okay, well we’ve got fifteen minutes left so I’m going to get back to my questions—going beyond—still, I really enjoyed learning about that because honestly even with like all this like I know like I’m historian from the University of Florida and stuff like that but like I’m trying to learn all of this myself.

	H:	Dunbar has a very magnificent history and as far as African-Americans are concerned because when we came here it was self-sufficient. Every store, a type of store, a merchant, you needed, was within, starting with this area, starting with this street out here, going south—I mean going west to downtown, stopping at the railroad tracks, there was every business you could think of that sustained life, that thrived within this area. It was like 5th Avenue, New York, anything you needed you could find.

	V:	Was it still like that when you came here to Fort Myers? H:	Yes.

	V:	Why?



	H:	Because it was still very segregated. V:	Yeah.





	H:	You have to imagine this, but even going downtown to certain stores and I won’t call the name because they are very prominent people but had stores. You could, a Black female, I mean you couldn’t even go in and try on the clothes you know you had to go in and if you wanted something you could pick it out, if you were lucky enough to get waited on, providing that there were not minority women in there—majority women in there—they might wait on you and then sell you something. But you couldn’t try it on and so then you couldn’t bring it back either and so there were Sear’s and Penney’s and stores like that here, but there were also stores out here and that’s where a lot of people shopped, not necessarily for groceries because of the majority of stores had things that these stores could not have without charging you a great deal of money for. They could sell it at a lower price because they were chains and whatever. Chain stores.

	V:	So then was, I mean this isn’t, not in the wrong way, but then did integration then kind of start the process where Black businesses started to go down because of the competition, essentially because of the competition?

	H:	Yes, integration really kind of killed that area of Dunbar. Integration is very good and that’s what we needed, it shouldn’t have been in the first place, but for those people up and down Dunbar you had your retail stores, you had your nightclubs, you had your like little department stores, men’s stores, women’s stores, you had your dry cleaners, you had your record shops, you had your laundry mats, you had every type of little grocery store you could think of and then on the weekend I mean it became alive. There was a lot of people, just all of them up and down the street like 5th Avenue or Broadway or something on the weekend. It was very,





very busy and everybody knew everybody but once integration came about and you could just liberally go in and shop however you want to, it did put a damper on people buying clothes and shoes and groceries within this area because they could find it cheaper at supermarket and there was something called American Department Store, which now like Walmart and those kind of stores they really killed off the Dunbar area.

	V:	Oh okay so then that kind of makes sense to me now I mean really because of segregation like the Black community here was able to keep up small businesses but then I mean by this time they already had like supermarkets and stuff like that and then, I mean, supermarkets that already started killing off the small businesses in the White area and it’s just like once integration happened you basically opened the flood gates for that.

	H:	Yeah, yeah, yeah we had every kind of business you could think of. As I said you had your—we had grocery stores and food markets and variety stores and dry cleaners and shoe repairs. We had tailors and theatres and restaurants, nightclubs, bars and grills, sandwich shops. You had your barber shops, you had your cosmetologists, you had your florist, and we had funeral homes and we had a car wash here, and we had construction companies, you had office [inaudible at 00:36:16] and that was another thing a lot of businessmen had offices and car repair shops, we even had a newspaper and—

	V:	What was the name of the newspaper, was it— H:	Community Voice.

	V:	Ah okay.





	H:	And then you had your photo shop and there was the one pharmacists here, Doc Carter. We had doctors and dentists and billiard parlors and dress shops. So you had everything you needed and you asked were there any prominent people, these were the people that were looked up to, the merchants and proprietors.

V:  And so during all of this then so like once integration started, I know integration didn’t start until like after the signing of the civil rights act, what event would you say really did the most in integrating Fort Myers?

	H:	I was trying to think of one event that may have triggered the whole—all I can remember is—I don’t think it was the assassination of Kennedy but it may have been. People really started to—it may have been the assassination of the president that people really said, “Okay, enough is enough.” You know and start to just invade, not invade, but to have sit ins and just go to the stores and just take part in going to the places that had been shut out, where they had been shut out from before. So I think it was probably the assassination of the president really triggered peoples mind and then they decided well, we have got to work together and get some people elected and of course that became Veronica Shoemaker. She was the first one, I can’t think of anyone else that was running for anything, any office, at that time. Melvin Morgan ran for county commissioner but that was after. Yeah so I would assume it was the assassination of the president that really was the catalyst in having people see our plight and see where we’re going and decide well, we got to get up and get busy.

	V:	Can I ask then, do you remember the first time that you like casually went shopping across the tracks like in downtown Fort Myers?





	H:	Well it was not—when I came we—people were still—we’d go downtown to shop, so it wasn’t—and I always went in the store so I didn’t have that overpowering sense of oh okay I can go now into Diana’s Shop, that was one of the shops, or I could go into this other store that said didn’t allow you to try on clothes. Because I was already going into Penney’s and Sears and then there was a Walgreen a [inaudible at 00:42:20] but they called it five and dime store, and then I had always worked at downtown during the summer when school was out, I worked at the bank so.

	V:	Oh, okay.



H:  I was downtown and there was only two banks in Lee County at that time and it was called First National, which is now Bank of America, and then there was called Lee County Bank. This is where the federal court house is, along in there, that was Lee County Bank. So, I worked downtown and that was a little bit different from what some people’s experience was.

	V:	Yeah.



	H:	I worked downtown and so, but there was a place called the Snack House I believe it was.

	V:	Yep, Snack House.



	H:	And that was segregated, that was a segregated place so I never, I never, patronized them even after it became integrated. I refused to eat there and so if you serve, I did not patronize restaurants, even after integration because most people had to have been served on the back of whatever and so by them integrating, didn’t help me any because I refused to eat there anyway. But for





those persons who wanted to, this became their opportunity then to go in and sit down and eat. I wasn’t interested in that kind of thing.

V:  Yeah cause I can kind of get that mindset, because it’s like even though things have integrated and like they’re forced to let people in, it’s still the same people behind the counter.

	H:	Exactly, the same people and so I didn’t go but summers, as I said, I worked at the bank and then two or three summers I worked for a Dr. Barker he was the only orthodontist here at the time and his office was on McGregor and there was some stores in a restaurant right across the street on McGregor, not too far from Publix, where downtown Publix is. I would go over there, they knew I worked for Dr. Barker so I went in the front door and stood at the counter.

	V:	Yeah.



	H:	I didn’t sit down, but I stood at the counter and they served me because they knew I was coming to get stuff for Dr. Barker. It was never a problem but other than that, even after integration was full force, I would never have gone in there and bought not one cotton, not one thing, because I didn’t feel I needed to do that.

	V:	Okay well I think I’m going to end the interview here for now, we’re probably going to have to schedule a follow up because I still have more questions about like—

	H:	Well then you can go right ahead and ask them. V:	Oh are you sure?

	H:	Yeah, you can ask them.





	V:	Okay so then I wanted to know then cause you’re—were you friends with Veronica Shoemaker?

	H:	Yes, in the sense that we attend the same church and I have you know worked on her campaigns and stuff.

	V:	Oh, okay.



	H:	But you know, in that sense, yes. V:	Like acquaintances?

	H:	Yes.



	V:	Okay if I can ask then, do you remember what year she was first elected?



H:  I think it was 198— it was eighty something, early [19]80s, middle [19]80s, like [19]84, [19]86, I don’t want to say unless I look at the—I would need to look at the history and see.

V:  Okay but it was the 1980s by that time? H:  Yes, [19]80s.

	V:	See because this is like what I want to ask you, well one of the things that’s always interesting to be is not just like the story of like integration but kind of like how integration played out and by that time in the 1980s when Veronica Shoemaker comes in and really becomes like the voice for the Black community, What were like some of the major issues at the time? In the 1980s, that you can remember?

H:  It was still a matter of segregation, believe it or not, it was hidden but it was still prevalent. Schools were not on an equal basis and neither was the opportunity for the average student. We were still being, the Dunbar community, or the





minorities, were still being bussed for miles to school to school to satisfy this desegregation but the reversal was not true there were no majorities coming in to what was predominantly minority schools. Not that there were too many of them around, but like Franklin Park, that was the most predominantly Black school.

There were no, not too many people from the majority race were being bussed into Dunbar into Franklin Park. By now Dunbar of course, as far as the high school, was closed.

	V:	Okay, so then I guess like the issue of the day was like bussing kids and things like that—

	H:	Yes.



	V:	By that time was there already like decline of business and things like that was— H:	Yes, businesses had, as far as the businesses and it’s merchant, merchandise,

clothing and food and restaurant, those had really declined. Oddly enough construction, people who were in construction, men who who owned construction companies and that, it grew. Because we had some very prominent and a lot of minority contractors in Lee County. In any area of construction you can find like contractors.

	V:	Okay.



	H:	So that area grew but as far as restaurants and retail stores, stuff like that went down, but of course that didn’t impact the barbers, the cosmetologists and construction, they stayed level and a few restaurants, you know those specials who dealt with like a fast food, not a sit down restaurant but a fast food type,





barbeque stands and stuff like that. But yeah that was the decline of the restaurants and record stores and pharmacists and stuff like that.

	V:	Yeah, so you just ended up getting eaten up more by the supermarkets and stuff like that.

	H:	Right, right.



	V:	Okay well I think I’m going to end the interview there, we’re at 50 minutes.





[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Amanda Lorenzo, September 12, 2019 Audit-edited by:	Olivia Lafuente

	Final edited by:	Sandra Romero, June 16, 2021