AAHP 461;; Jones, Gainous, McIvory;; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 461 Jones, Gainous, McIvory

Interviewed by Sherry Sherrod Dupree, Venetia Ponds on November 15, 2016 2 hours and 36 minutes | 55 pages



Abstract: In this interview conducted by Sherry Sherrod Dupree and Venetia Ponds, Leroy Jones, Alpha Gainous, George McIvory all recount their service as Montford Point Marines during World War II. Each gentleman expresses their perspective on various subjects, such as discrimination, war, the future of the Black community, and service.

They also talk about award they have garnered in the years after their service, such as the veterans service reward and the congressional gold medal.





Keywords: [African American History Project, Jacksonville, Montford Point Marines, World War II, Veterans History, congressional gold medal, racism, discrimination, segregation]



Standards:

SS.7.C.3.7 Minority voters

SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.

SS.912.A.7.12 Analyze political, economic, and social concerns that emerged at the end of the 20th century and into the 21st century.

SS.912.C.3.13 Illustrate examples of how government affects the daily lives of citizens at the local, state, and national levels.



AAHP 461

Interviewee: Leroy Jones, Alford Gainous, George McIvory

Interviewer: Sherry Sherrod Dupree, Venetia Ponds, Mike Barry, Raja Rahim, Ron Jackson, Hallie Williams

Date of Interview: November 15, 2016





	B:	My name’s Mike. If I didn’t reach you guys, I was the one who’s kind of like the point man at Samuel Proctor Oral History Program for this interview session.

First of all, I want to thank you guys for letting use come out here and listen to your stories and ask you some questions. We’re really excited to get these interviews on the record. Sherry was also really helpful in getting this organized, so she’s going to kind of help us in questioning you guys and trying to hear some of your stories from the war.

	D:	Thank you very much for consenting. I want to say first, we are at the American Legion 197. Address is 2179 Benedict Rd, Jacksonville, FL. 32209. The date is November 15, 2016. The day is Tuesday. And we will be interviewing three men this afternoon, three very special men, who have given their lives and devoted their lives to our American history by being members of Montford Point Marines. Chapter 29, in Jacksonville, Florida. This is a post, and the post number for this group has been very active in keeping the history of the marines alive. First, we will speak with each one of you for two to three minutes, and what we would like for you to do is just give us some background as to who you are, and that would include your name, your birthday — and by the way we do have a birthday today that we will celebrate in a little while — and also we would introduce the various people who are involved in the interview. My name is Sherry Sherrod Dupree. I am from Gainesville, I work with the oral history project, I’m a retired librarian





from the University of Florida, and also I retired from Santa Fe College in Gainesville.

	P:	My name is Venetia Ponds. I’m originally from Seattle. I am a research assistant at the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. I’m pursuing my PhD in anthropology.

	B:	My name’s Mike Barry. I’m from Boston, Massachusetts, originally. I’m also a research assistant, specifically in production and technology.

	R:	Hi, I’m Raja Rahim.



	P:	She’s a graduate coordinator at Samuel Proctor Oral History Program.



	D:	And we have a very special guest who’s responsible for getting all of this done for us today. Mr. Ron Jackson. And would you say a little bit about who you are so we can have it on tape?

	JA:	My name is Ron Jackson. I’m a retired marine of twenty-­one years, currently the chapter president of chapter 29 here in Jacksonville, Florida, and a past commander of American Legion 197.

	D:	And we have one other person who is in the audience today, and we would like for him to say who he is and his ranks.

	W:	My name is Hallie Williams-­Bey and the past commander for post 197. I’m a charting member of chapter 29. Born and raised right here in Jacksonville, and I came in the Marine Corps as a staff sergeant. Vietnam vet, four years of service.

	D:	We wanna thank you so much for being part of our audience today, thank you. P:	If you want to interject anything or ask any questions, please feel free to do so.





	D:	We would appreciate it, thank you. Let’s start with Mr. Leroy Jones. I got a chance to talk to Mr. Jones before we came in the building today. Oh, yes. I’m sorry. And Mr. Jones, what we would like for you to share with us is your date of birth, your parents’ names, all of you will do the same, your children and family;; just a little background information. We just call that your bio.

	JO:	My name is Leroy Jones. I was born February 15, 1930, in Jacksonville, Florida.



Well, I have a wife. We have five children here. Four boys and one girl.



	D:	And your wife’s name?



	JO:	My wife’s name is Joyce Jones.



	D:	All right, and your children’s’ name?



	JO:	My children’s name, I got one that’s Carl Vincent, Oscar Lavell, Gregory Jones, Sheila Jones, and Kevin Jones.

	D:	Thank you. All right, so the next person that we will speak to is Mr. Gainous. Mr.



Gainous, would you share that same information?



	G:	My name is Alpha T. Gainous. Born in Jacksonville, Florida. November 15, 1924.



Today is my birthday.



	D:	Yes! [Applause]

	G:	Ninety-­two years of age. My mother is Stella Gainous. She died about forty-­one years ago. My two sisters, Bessie Gainous, Ivory Gainous, they was born and lived in Jacksonville, and graduated from the colleges of Jacksonville, Edward Waters. My daughter name is Altha Hay — graduated from the University of Florida, like you.





	D:	Thank you. And our third gentleman. Would you please share with us your basic information?

	M:	My name is George McIvory. I’m a Jacksonville resident and born here. My birthday is November 15, 1925, which I am 91 today.

	D:	Absolutely! [Laughter] P:	Happy birthday.

	M:	My mother was Nora Fullton and my father was James McIvory. And my wife was Eugenia McIvory, and she passed in [19]81, which I miss her very much.

	D:	I’m sure. Your children?



	M:	Oh, I have one daughter, Gayle Denise Newman, who reside in New Jersey;; Cherry Hill, New Jersey. And I have three granddaughters and six great-­grands, which are three girls and three boys. Thank you.

	D:	Well thank you. Let me just ask one general question. From your early family members, did anyone talk about living during the time of slavery or living on plantations here in the state of Florida?

	M:	No. I’d never heard of it. It lose in the city, and you lived with certain conditions wherein you could not — the schools were segregated, and also, all the restaurants and the movies, everything, was segregated. Because if you went to the movies, if it wasn’t a Black theater, if it was in especially a smaller town, there sitting capacity upstairs. But with us in Jacksonville, we was a little more progressive than some of the real rural, smaller areas. We at that particular time, they had mostly their own more self-­contained within the community, because they had businesses, and we didn’t have to go to the other side of town, White,





because we could get everything we wanted, usually. Progress begin to go up, well, advance, rather, then they found a way to divide you and make everything turn it around by putting in the super highways and all. So, that takes your property, because the expressway came right over my father’s house, properties, and he had to sell. My father;; he was a shoe repairman. He owned his shoe shop, The Economy Shoe Shop, and then also during the war he repaired all the soldiers’ shoes at Camp Blanding, which was at Starke, Florida.

	D:	Yes, that was in Starke, Florida, over in Bradford County. Okay, thank you so much, and this is beautiful history that you’re sharing with us. The other two gentlemen, would you like to say a little bit more about your early life here in Jacksonville?

	G:	My mother and father was born in west Florida — Quincy. They lived in a time, as Booker T. Washington say, “Up from slavery.” My grandfather was a school teacher. Taught at an old wooden school in Quincy, Florida, and also, I never understood — they never told me — why he only had one arm. And they worked in a grocery store, and they have a book written about them called Gadsden County.

	D:	Gadsden County?



	G:	Gadsden County, yes.



	D:	All right. Thank you very much for sharing that.



	G:	And my grandfather…he made shingles. I was quite a small lad when my grandfather died, but my great-­grandfather I never met. They say that he made shingles. I know very little about any of the male family, because my father





himself died when I was about four years old. I was raised by strong Black women. Never had much to eat. Looked like they was getting me ready for Montford Point. [Laughter]

D:   Thank you, thank you. Would you like to share more?



	JO:	Well, I don’t remember too much. My mother and father passed when I was very young. My grandmother raised me and sent me to school and took care of me. And that’s all I can — my mother and father I don’t remember too much about.

	D:	Okay, Mr. Jones, thank you so much for sharing ‘cause this is early history and this can help us so much as we do genealogy.

	P:	So what was the town that you were born in? JO:	I beg your pardon?

	P:	What was the town that you grew up in? J:	Right here in Duval County.

	D:	In Jacksonville.



	J:	Right.



	P:	Okay, so all of you, Jacksonville. Okay.



	D:	Well, yes. Okay thank you for that aspect. Now we want to move into another portion where we will be able to share questions, and you can talk in a group. So we will ask you questions, and then whoever cares to respond that will be fine.

The first question that we had on our sheet dealt with: how did you feel when you went into the military? What did it do for you when you went into the military? It seems as if you volunteered to go, is this correct? So since you volunteered to go





in there, what did you expect? We got a little bit of that already — one of you expressed — but how did it make you feel?

	P:	What were your expectations going in? D:	Yes.

	G:	Well, when I was about sixteen years of age, I always wanted to be a cook;; a chef cook, a baker, and a butcher. And when I first began my high school studies, I was so poor;; poverty up, poorer than poverty. I needed a job after school to help me along, so then, in order to get to the baker shop that I was being trained, I had to catch the bus. And one particular day at the bus stop, I saw a young White lad — had a red, white, and blue uniform on. I already knew that he was a part of the armed service, but he had a star. I never dreamed of Marine Corps. I never heard of the Marine Corps. I knew the khaki uniform was for the Army. I knew the bell bottom britches was for the Navy. But I never dreamed there was a branch of service called the Marines. So, getting up the nerve, I asked this young fella what branch of service, and he said Marine. He was getting on the bus, and hollered back to me “Marine,” and I said to myself, then, I would like to wear that uniform. And I vowed that I would wear it. But never knowed that I wasn’t even allowed to wear the uniform. Then one day, when I got home, I found a letter, signed a greeting, there’s [inaudible17:21] draft been to the army, and I begged for the Marine Corps. And when I got to Montford Point, it was in the middle of the night, and I never knew what the camp looked like until the next morning. And the next morning, when I saw the camp, I actually cried. [Laughter]. And I begged God, “If you help me out of this, I will never make





that mistake again.” But he never helped me out. [Laughter] And I grew to love the camp, and I grew to know that I must do everything in my power to make it better. And 1943, we broke records there. And 1943 I was off to war.

	D:	I hear you. Well, we’ll be coming back to you to talk a little bit about Tuskegee and your health service and some other things, but let’s move in to have one of the other gentlemen to tell us a little bit about how they felt when they got into the Marines. Who wants to go first? Mr. Jones?

	JO:	Mine’s a little different from his. I know back in Florida there, I had a part time job going to school and working afternoons and Saturday, delivering Western Union. So at that time, the recruiting station was down there in the Post Office where I used to deliver that, and I became friendly with one of the guys down there, and he would be riding with his old blues on and everything, looking clean like, so I said, “Well, lord, that oughta be a nice thing to do, instead of me hustling around here with these men, I mean Western Union. So he finally talked me into the Army. I wasn’t but sixteen years old. So he said, well, “Just bring me a birth certificate.” At that time here we didn’t have no typewriters and all that stuff and all, and I went down to city hall and told them, “Look, I need a birth certificate.” And she says, “When were you born?” I said “Oh and so and so.” Put my age up. Went back to the Post Office, and gave it to the recruiting, and I drove seventy to North Carolina. Like Gainous said, when I got there, it was around midnight or something, dark, couldn’t see anything. Didn’t know what was happening. It was raining. Poor little fella like me. I said “Well, I’m gonna make the best of it right here for three years.” So that’s about the size of it.





	D:	I hear ya. Well, that was a wonderful story as well. Now, Mr. McIvory, how did you feel?

	M:	Well, for me, I was in my last year of high school, but I had went during the summer. I would go to summer school, get extra credits. So really, it was good for me because as soon as I became eighteen, there was a greeting waiting on me, you know? So, well, I did get my diploma, although I wasn’t at home at that particular time, because I was immediately sent, inducted, to Camp Blanding.

And so at the induction center, I was asked, “What branch of service you prefer?” And, well, I said, “Army,” because I wanted to go to Europe to see the castles and all. And the man look at me, and the recruiter looked at me, and I was I imagine I must have weighed about a hundred and forty pounds, maybe so he snapped on the card, “Maybe the Marines.” And I looked at the card, but you know, they move you along. Well, I didn’t know anything about the Marines, but I soon found out. I say my reason for not wanting to go in the Navy, because I thought I would have had to wash those white trousers, the uniforms that they was wearing, but lo and behold, when I arrived at the Marine Corps insulation, which was a Camp Lejeune, which was Martha Point, the rest of the name, but it was on the grounds of Camp Lejeune. But it was segregated, I found out. I say, “Well, where is the other marines?” Well, he rode across the river over there.

That’s where they’re trained at. So, well, I got my awakening as usual, we arrived at night. They really make you see exactly or give you a shock, and that shock was what I saw that particular day, on arrival. I say, “I must be made a mistake, I’m in the wrong place.” [Laughter] But however, being young as I was, I feel that





everything was a challenge to me, so I was one that I didn’t believe in giving up. Not knowing anything about the Marines, when Pearl Harbor, the bombing of Pearl Harbor, that particular moment I lived in the project, and I was just going behind to the playgrounds around there. And my sister’s scout master came out and said they bombed Pearl Harbor. I say, “Well what is that?” Nobody didn’t know anything about Pearl Harbor. So immediately I went home, got in my books, reading to find out, and then eventually, I say, “Well, that’s in the Pacific. In Hawaii Islands.” So I became interested, because I’m a great reader. So he eventually, right away, he went into the Marines. And so, when he came home, I saw him, and it was good enough for him, and he looking good and smart in his greens, so I believe that’s what kinda made me say well that was all right when they inducted me. I saw him, and he looking good, so eventually, the service said we got in the Marine Corps, there’s nothing like it in the world. So it’s the discipline and the training, and there’s no match for it.

	D:	I hear ya. You even showed that today when we came in the doorway. You waited until the ladies came in. You gentlemen would not come in that door until we came in.

	P:	You should have seen the sharp corner he made me. He was marching out of his car.

[Laughter]



	G:	They were scared. [Laughter] D:	So we respect that.





	P:	So all of you talk about arriving at this camp at night, and then in the morning of what you saw. So what did the camp look like? What did you see? Were there buildings or—

	M:	Huts. There was huts — well, they looked like, really, when you got to see them, actually, in the day time, they looked like cardboard huts to me. But those huts was there, because when things was hard, and they had — the mens was outta work, so that’s where the Conservation Corps came in, the CCC. So those men, to me, was like the forerunner of the Army, because when the war broke out, those men, what they would do, they was almost really training in a sense of drilling, because they was still at that base every week. They come home on the weekends. And what they would do, they had drills — they were drilling to [inaudible 28:15] and whatever like that, and they was using the vehicles they rode in, they was an army. And so, they use those men really to give them work

— the government did, so they could have money for their families. Things was just hard, and so they would stay there and they would build fire bricks in the fires. And they would build bridges. They learned to build bridges and roads. And that’s what they used them for, and that was to help. And so when the war broke out, it was easy to kinda turn those men over, basically.

	P:	Turn the camp over into a military camp. M:	It was to assimilate them into the military.

	P:	Sure. So why don’t you tell us what boot camp was like?



	G:	When I woke up that morning. I seen the horror that I never seen before in my life;; mosquitos, and every type of bug that you can imagine. Then there was





crawling things. Bugs, snakes, and the living conditions was ruins. We had to rebuild the living conditions. And to me, it was like, as horrible as Jacksonville was at that time, but it seemed as if I woke up in hell. That’s about all — the sight that I seen you can recognize about seventy years or seventy-­one years ago.

	P:	Do you want to tell us how the camp looked to you? Were they right? Was it full of bugs and—

	JO:	Like you said, bugs and mosquitos and snakes and all kinds . . . the worst part, what I didn’t care for is sometimes at 4 or 5 o’clock, early in the morning, the instructor would come in and, “All right, you so-­and-­so, hit the deck.” Boy, I’m trying to get a nap over there! And when we fall out — if you didn’t fall out in the company street, somebody would always be lagging around sleeping. You didn’t get him up, you had to wake your partner up long with him. You’re doing that, sometime even the drill instructor would make us bring our locker box out — our foot lockers — put them on your shoulder, talk about drilling you, and hit you. My only locker hitting in the hammer, and he was hitting me. It was pretty rough out there for me. Then we would do that, we’d have to run to the mess hall in the morning to get chow.

	M:	We’d run everywhere.



	JO:	When we get to the chow hall, we couldn’t have nothing but — we could have black coffee, but no sugar. No cream. You got oatmeal and no sugar — all that was, sugar so they say, was affecting your eyesight when you go to the rifle range. So when you got through with that delicious breakfast, you had to come outside and stay in formation until the whole other thirty-­six or whatever, forty





people in the platoon, finished up and come out. Then we had to double-­time back to the area. Clean the area up. Fall out, then, with your rifle, and drill. And sometime we’d have class, and they’d go sit us down in the boondocks out there, and we would go through the different chapters of the book and everything. And then come back in in the afternoon. First we would go to chow, then we would have to get your dungarees. You’d have a scrub brush. You wash, go down take a shower, then you’d have to scrub all your clothes you had on all day, get them ready for the next day. But I expect you learned a lot from being in there because you learn discipline and how to respect one another, especially the DI. If you didn’t respect him, boy, he was something else.

	P:	So all the people that were over you, training you — these were all White men? JO:	No

	P:	They were all Black men?



	JO:	We had Black DI’s, but all the officers were White. And we didn’t have any Black officers, we had White officers — even the second lieutenant just out of OCS, would come out there and eat pudding like he about eighteen to nineteen years old, with second lieutenant bars on his shoulder. He struts around like a peacock, you know. [Laughter] We didn’t have any Black officers there. Not at that time.

Now we have some now and later on, but at that time we didn’t have any.



	P:	So when you say that you built the camp — when that is said — what is meant by that?

	G:	Hmm? What you say?



	P:	Built the camp? The buildings? So, what is—?





	G:	Not the building, literally. We didn’t build the camp. We renovated the camp. It’s just an error when we say we build the camp, but we renovated it.

	P:	So you fixed those huts up?



	G:	Yeah, because they was — there was nothing much to them left. M:	Thins that needed to be fixed.

	G:	Yeah. We had to renovate it.



	D:	So you all had the skills to fix these camps — the camp. You knew how to do it.



	Who showed you how to prepare and fix— P:	The construction?

	M:	Well, usually—



	G:	We was Black. Yes. Born in the United States of America in the deep, Deep South [Laughter]. We were very poor, all right?

	D:	I understand.



	G:	So we had to learn at an early age the skills to survive. So that’s what we did. M:	We had to survive.

	G:	More of a point. P:	So you can say—

	G:	Go ahead. You want to talk?



	M:	No, I just say that basically, we all survivors to a degree, wherein they would have, say, the working parties. Well first they would come out and say well they need — you know not to volunteer right away. I learned that almost the beginning of the first night, when they said, “We need some truck drivers or something.” And if you volunteer, you’d find yourself pushing a wheelbarrow. [Laughter]





Things like that, you know? But that makes you cautious and to think, see? But the point about building the camp, well, they find that amongst the African-­ Americans, they’re skilled ‘cause they skilled from — you can look back to slavery, and the things and how they survived. Well those things come naturally with a person if they have a desire to wanna live, see? So in other words we learn how to make do until things either get better or the time presents itself that we make it better.

	D:	If you say so.



	P:	And you wanted to share something with them?



	W:	Yeah, I’m not wing vet, a Vietnam vet, with Parris Island in [19]67. Brother Gainous and Brother McIvory and Brother Jones share some information with me about… not only did they help renovate this camp, but at the same time, they were going to have to help Camp Lejeune, take a shower. And the White brothers took a shower, and the White fellas ate, then they ate. Am I right? It’s what Brother Gainous shared with me, they had to go through all through their training. So, any time that they would want to shower and eat, they had to go after the White folks eat and the White folks showered.

	D:	I hear you. Thank you so much. That’s some history.



	JO:	They had their separate facilities. We were allowed to go to the main base, Camp Lejeune, there for work, because we were in a depot, at least I was, in a depot company, see, which is just like handling ammo, loading ships and so forth and all that for the others. So when we go over to train over there out of the embark and debark on the ships, they would — when chow time come and we had to go





to the mess hall, they had a designated section in the mess hall where we couldn’t go to any seat in the mess hall, see, we all had to go to this area in the mess hall that they had designed for us to sit in.

	D:	I hear ya. So you all came prepared from home and just living, and you were able to survive and make things work for you. The next concern: did you all handle any weapons? I heard you talk about ammunition, but did you handle weapons? Did they teach you how to use the guns—?

	JO:	Yes, we had modern weapons. G:	We had rifles.

	D:	You had rifles, huh?



	JO:	Let’s see, when I first started training in boot camp, we would have what they called was a “03” Springfield automatic rifle. Which, they come out later with the M1 rifles, and they took the 03’s from us and made us train with the M1’s. And about two weeks before you finish your basic training, they would send us to Camp Lejeune for the rifle range out there, see, and we would fire the rifles there and you could get a — whether you was a marksman or just a, what you call it? Maggot soon?

	JA:	Maggot Drew.



	JO:	[Laughter] You put the hand of it back.



	D:	So you did have that rifle, and the M1 you said was the rifle that you all were trained on.

	JO:	Well, it started with the M03 rifle, but the 03 became obsolete, so they used the M1.





	D:	Uh-­huh. To bring you up to standards. All right so now tell us is there anything that you really enjoyed about being down there in the Marines and the Camp Lejeune area and Jacksonville area that was called?

	P:	So, Saturday nights, do you guys go out? And leave the base? D:	Yeah, what did you do for fun?

	M:	Mmm. [Laughter]

	JO:	You could leave the base, but the Jacksonville, North Carolina you had to— M:	It was one street!

	JO:	It was bursting in a [Inaudible at 42:16]. You had dirt roads and all that stuff up there in North Carolina.

	P:	There wasn’t any Black USO or whatever it is?



	JO:	They had one little building by the side of this building right in here in Jacksonville [Inaudible at 42.32] that was USO. The rest of them was beer joints and speakeasies.

	JA:	And when these young men are in basic training for thirteen weeks, there’s no Saturday nights, there’s just straight training.

	M:	That’s right.



JA:  So once basic training is complete, there’s an opportunity if they get stationed there that now they may have some liberty to go out in town, but as Mr. Jones stated, the climate at that time was not conducive for them to be out in town.

D:  We got something special to show you! What is this coming to the table today? JO:  That’s a replica of a rifle.







M:

To me that looks like a replica of what Mr. Jones came in contact — the



Springfield

J:

I’m thinking that’s an 03 model I believe.

M:

Yeah, 03.

D:

Well, we’ve got to hold this up so this can be included-­-­

M:

That’s like what Mr Jones . . . but I never had that. We didn’t have that.

D:

This was the first rifle that was used.

M:

And they used those rifles back in World War I.

D:

World War I?

M:

Yes. Before the Springfield.

D:

And so what is this — kinda explain it a little bit public, because they don’t know



what this is.

M:

Let him explain it. [Points to Mr. Jones]

D:

[Laughter] Okay explain this. What is this portion?

JO:

Let me see. It’s for the…kick the bolt back.

M:

Kick that, push the bolt back and let it come up here. Go back, like that.

JO:

You can put the shell on it.

D:

You put the shells in here. Okay. And then this would be, of course, the



shooting—

JO:

That’s the trigger.

D:

But you didn’t have anything — any sight on it did you?

JO:

Right on the top of it.





	D:	Okay so you hold it like this, and you can look through that little — all right, and so you do have a sight, all right. But it wasn’t heavy either. It was made of wood. [Laughter among group]

	M:	No, no.



	P:	That’s a replica!



	JA:	The real one is heavy!



	D:	Oh! I was about to say. Okay.



	M:	That’s nine pounds Garand that’s what they give you, at least when I went in there, they give you a nine pound Garand and that Garand could become a hundred pounds according to what they make you do. So I want to give a little instance. When I arrived at night, there at the base, we went in, and we were all in the hut, and they already had some guys in there — some recruits in there — and they was carrying a recruit, and they had one of them in there, and he had the Garand and he was going up and arm shoulder, and all — it seemed like a hazing at night, you know? And if you stand up there and do that so long, you start trembling. And he fell out! And my eyes got like that! And I said, “Ooh!” [Laughter] You know I was, but it didn’t really phase me in order that make me want to quit, because during the course of the exercise that they give you, that’s to kind toughen you up, and it strengthened you in a sense, because I was so dogmatic because I have a light, weak voice, and I don’t know how many times I was punched in my chest to sound off — to make me talk louder, but I maintained the same thing, and that would really kinda make them kinda, you know what, angry. So they’d give you some punishment. They’d either have you





running up and down the company street at arms like that with a pack on, or sometimes it might be a light pack, or it might be a full pack. And, you see, well, you could run up and down there. I’ve seen guys run up and down there, really fall out. But I tell you what, at one time, I would make them so angry, until they said, “Go on back to your barracks, boy!” They had me in the back sometime, the guys be in there, the sergeants be in there, they playing cards, and I be in the back of the barracks, “Yes, sir! Yes, sir! Yes, sir!” My voice still maintaining the same, they get tired and say, “Go on back,” because it’s just… all that was good, to me, because I say, “Well they ain’t gonna make me quit, they ain’t gonna run me out.” But of course there some things that will make you quit, though, but I tell ya, there’s nothing beats the training. And nothing beats the discipline. And that is still in you forever;; in me it does. So I never worried about most anything, though.

	P:	Was there any particular mentors that you had, or older people, or people that had been there longer that kinda gave you hints and led you the right way or the wrong way?

	G:	The only older people — there was the ones in charge. We called them DI, a Drill Instructor. And they wasn’t to pamper us. They were there to make us do…at the end of our shifts, so I mean, we were just boys. I was eighteen, at that time, you wasn’t an adult until you was twenty-­one, so I was still a child. So they treated us as if we were children. [Laughter] They beat us if they felt like. But they wanted us to be Marine. And I’m proud that they wanted us to be Marine. I, myself, qualified in every discipline at the top. About five months, I had made Corporal.





Just above two years, I made staff sergeant. So I qualified, really, in every discipline at the top. I never had anyone to try to discipline me, because I paid strict attention. So it was kinda easy for me to go through. I seen others that was punched. They had a water tower there where they may broke a boot. We were Black boots. We was in boot camp. And we was Black. So we were Black boots.

	JO:	I know after boot camp, you get a leave, you come home, so I went AWOL — I didn’t report back on time. Commanding officer give me thirty days in the brig with bread and water. I could eat all the bread I want today, tomorrow I couldn’t get no — I mean all the food I want today — and tomorrow the only thing I could get was bread and water. Every third day, I could get a meal. So I had to do that for thirty days, because I was what they call AWOL. I was late reporting back after I been home on leave.

	P:	It was too good to come.



	JO:	Yeah. So, I say about four or five foot, four by four or something, all we had in there was a picture and a blanket. That was in the brig. So I stayed in there with that for them thirty days, on that concrete floor. I had that blanket and a picture. But they’ll take me out of there in thirty days, and I could go to the mess hall now and eat all the bread I wanted. I found sometimes I just eat bread, and holler, and make the guy go back to the mess hall and get some, you see. Yeah. And you could catch those ham sandwiches. Fine dining! That wasn’t funny, but I thought about it years after in life, and said you know well I ate a lot of them fine sandwiches with that bread.





	D:	Well, let’s change a little bit. What about some of the travels that you did while you were in the military? Some of the places that you were stationed, and some of the places that you had to report to.

	P:	Did you have a favorite base that you liked?



	JO:	No, I mostly stayed in the states myself, from Camp Lejeune there, I went up to Virginia, Little Creek, Virginia and moved down to South America, down in Cuba, and Puerto Rico. This was during time when every year they go down for maneuvers, you know, and training down in those areas. Down in, what, Trinidad, and Haiti, all around through there. And they would let us go ashore, some of those places, but most of the time I didn’t go overseas.

	D:	Okay, so the others, what were some of the places you had a chance to visit while you were on patrol or what have you?

	G:	Well, in 1943, December the eleventh, I was already in foreign waters. And the first stop we had was in Marshall Island. And that’s where . . . I didn’t participate in it, but I was aboard ship, and saw the slaughter. And I prayed to God that I would never participate in such a slaughter. Nothing but young men. We were segregated, and the most was getting slaughtered was young, White children. Somehow I was the first Black Marine to ever go overseas. And to be separated from the rest — there were thirty of us — and to be separated from the rest, it seemed like the end of the world. They called me by my name upon ship Rocky Mountain. The admiral of the ship said there was no Black Marine in the Marshall Island campaign. Couldn’t say anything, but I looked at him, and I said to myself “What am I?” [Laughter] But I met a White colonel, a lieutenant colonel, Robert





Higgs. He’ll like come aboard to praise me as if I was a commodity. And he said to me, it’s nothing but a use a curse word that he could do about it, but he’ll make sure that I always will be recognized as being in war and overseas in war — in combat. And he made sure that I become a veteran of foreign war. I joined the veterans of foreign wars in 1944. But I went from [Inaudible at 57:37] islands and engaged in battle. But somehow, they never put it on my discharge, and I don’t try to stress things that are not on my discharge. So I try to lay all that out.

	M:	Well, we going back to when you asked about in the training, and find well I was in a different type of outfit. It was supposedly been a combatting outfit. For combat, we were trained. They had two combatting outfits;; the 51st and the 52nd. The 51st was — they was using 1-­5-­5 cannons — was that they used in previous wars, and in lots of those where they used a power pack to them. Those were big guns, and they was using those more or less for sea coast firing at ships abroad. So they changed that and start using 90mm’s for air and sea. Because they could converge them up and down to shoot out the range or they shoot up. So in these particular outfits — these two — that they organized, that was beginning of — they had search radar, they had radar, which was new, at that particular time;; everything in the electronics coming on, like the computers, and all of those. They had cables leading from those to each gun and aircraft guns. Well I was in the elevation man on the 90mm gun and the thing about it is this: we went into the Marshall Islands at the time and set up gun barriers on Majuro Atoll Island. Particular battalion went to Majuro Atoll, and so we were supposed to protect that particular island because Marine admirals were flying off of there,





bombing the Japanese down their truck, in the Caroline Islands — although we would have occasionally, a raid or two, but we never got into the real hard fighting like the guys who went in on the invasions. But usually there was other little outline on Atoll islands around that. Sometime they would form a search party and send you over there on those LST’s. There was no LCI’s because you didn’t need an LST for that, just go over there to those islands, Atoll, to see whether Japanese had come on those particular islands. The war was moving ahead of us, and we was firing them, so we went into Guam, which was a much larger island, and at that particular time they had just had stopped fighting in a sense, at least the war was over there. And they was moving on but when you move on, it was just like some places that they passed, they still had Japanese still hiding like in the caves and all, so that’s when you had patrols. They would get patrols from each battery, and at various times when you go out and look, well, I witnessed my first Japanese. It was on Easter. They brought one back.

They had caught him because what they would do, when they bypassed those particular guys, they wanna survive just like we would wanna survive. So if you have a supply dump or something, they would wait and try to slip in and steal food, you know, things what they could use. And there was two of them, and they brought one back, and the way they brought him back just like he was on a pole, like you would kill an animal. And then they had him on the pole and then they had a slit fridge. They put him in that and they burn him. That’s first time that I witnessed, looking at a human just lay burn — and the difference in the colors that they change. But I say, well, this is what we have to go through. But at any





rate, we moved up and they used us at various times, not only for those little incidents like searches, but then they use you to guard, although — and say like those ducks that you go out and shoot, and they would load the ammunition on it, and then maybe you’d be riding with the driver and all, they’d carry it back up into the dump, where they supply, you know, stack it up and all, so then those particular things…but you still had to maintain your defense of the islands in case it was need. But on the other hand they moved from Guam up to Saipan, which is in the Adriatic Pacific, and from there was there until they dropped the atomic bombs in Japan, and then we was — things started lighting up then so that’s as far as I got, as far as up to Saipan. And from then on, after the things started slowing down, we went down into, back down into, the Marshall Islands to take up gun emplacements there;; for the guns that was left in the quadrant, and they didn’t have enough points to come home.

	JA:	Did you have any pictures of the cannons that you—? M:	I left the 90mm at home.

	JA:	Okay.



	M:	But I’ve got some stuff, though. Here’s my boot camp picture, and that was platoon 345 Company E.

	P:	And afterwards we’ll get a good picture of the picture. D:	Yes. He has it I think.

	M:	And these are your drill instructors, and they were new, that’s when we first went in the camp. And they hadn’t been long in the PLC. And one of them is from North Carolina;; Durham, North Carolina.





	D:	That’s where I went to school. M:	Yeah? His name is PLC Peace. D:	Peace?

	M:	Yeah, and the other one is — this is J.C. Henry was from New York, this one here. They had recently made Drill Instructors, so they had to keep their stripes, you know. So they was kinda rough on us. [Laughter] But around this place that I ran it, they had just started making these guys Drill Instructors because just before then it was all White. And those guys had been in the Marine Corps, they was old salts, what you would call. They had been to China and Nicaragua, all down in Central America. They’re tools of duty before we ever thought about the Marines. Now I came into one of them on the rifle range. That was the last [Inaudible at 1:08:04] of where they were at the rifle range. And they were there, so these guys had to just drill us up there. And that was it. We was at the mercy of them. And all of those guys, what they had up there, some of them was big guys — six foot, almost — and it was really intimidating in a sense. Because they look you over, and they pick who they wanna train for that particular time on the range. So, well I got my full of it, but I tell ya, I had a hard time there for the simple reason is you can tell if somebody — see, I’m a good reader of — because in my training as aircraft recognition, because I was in the aircraft, that I could look sometime at things and I don’t — I try to look sometimes beyond it — and in front of it or something. I don’t take everything I see just like that. So this guy, I could see, he must really like us. Well, me. You know what I mean? Big old guy, he picked me to train! And so I was doing good because where I lived at,





right here, not too far from where I lived at, just across H Street, it was all woods at that particular time. I used to have out there, we were .22 rifles. And I could shoot right off. Consequently, I had to bear what he had to put on me. But at least to keep from going to jail. I’m a grandmother’s boy, and I didn’t wanna worry her, because she would have said, “What happened to you? What’s the matter?” You know? Cause what I woulda done woulda been inappropriate and it woulda been wrong. It was against the rules and regulations, so I just took it. I bit my tongue. But however, this is what I say. With us, they ain’t — as we had, and the guys coming on after us, these guys what was training us there on the range, they only keep them there for a certain amount of time, and it all depends upon the gravity of what the service needed, and guys were getting killed by the hundreds then, see, all over;; Europe and in Asia, and the Pacific. So they’d move them out, and then probably linger a bit. So that the same person would do you wrong, it could have been one of us that saved his life. So, I’m going to give you a case in point. What kept our group safe is because when we was down in the Marshall, we had the Marine admiral touring our target practice. And they knew what we could do. So when we moved up into Saipan, at Guam and Saipan, and then they — at Saipan they got read for the invasion of Okinawa. We loaded all our equipment on the ship, and then after that, they had us on stand-­by for over a week or so, just doing nothing, you know, waiting. Finally, they pulled us out, at least in a sense. You know what happened? It was a group of White marines out there — young boys that they was bringing over from the states — they stopped and they said, at Pearl Harbor, to finish any aircraft training. And they put them in





our place. Well that was to give them the exposure and to make them look good. Because I often thought, when I was seeing the war pictures going on, I say, “I didn’t see no Blacks” you know? But I don’t care what you do, Blacks were there. Or what you say, Blacks were there. In some capacities, you didn’t know what [Inaudible at 1:13:34] service because my buddy, we was in the mail service together, and he was in artillery. We used to talk all the time. And so, you see, this was just the nature of this business, this world, and this country, in a sense, of how they think. But you see, by what we heard because these marine air group used to tour our targets, and they knew our firing record, they — when they put those guys in and they had the invasion, they would hardly stand, and we got worried that they’d say, “Where the Black boys?” because they was shooting down more American planes than they was Japanese planes. Because I can remember when first started and got out there, we used to have to sit in a tent, and it’s hot, and you be in there, and they be flashing their one-­one hundred, and then you got to recognize what you saw, you know. They threw back the flap of the tent, all right, and you’d see not three planes. Okay, all right, you don’t miss them, you know? See that makes…this makes you good. So that’s the way life is, the way these people wanna think, but we were there.

	P:	So we’re going to take a break after all that, after the war. G:	[Laughter]

D:   As you were talking, can you cut this off? As you were talking, my uncle was over in that war, Pearl Harbor, and he was in the mess kitchen, and he told about how they came out, and he actually said he shot down one of the planes that was





coming directly toward where they were. He never got any praise for it, or none of that, but he used to sit and tell us about what it was like being over there at that time, and how hard it was, and he said that he was — he had already been to college, and then like Mr. Jones, and he said we had to take it. Just like anybody else, but when you started talking about it, it just started ringing bells in my mind of my Uncle coming back and what we had talked about. Thank you, I’m glad you told it because this is something that we could really isolate and tell the story in a form that it hasn’t been told before. I mean I worry they don’t get out.

So I’m thankful you did that.



	M:	On the discharge or something, if you was in the theater of operation, whether, if you was in that theater, you should have had at least a notation, like, you mentioned your discharge. You know what I mean? We didn’t have everything on there.

	D:	I know it. Well he just said the same thing, didn’t he?



	W:	And they still do. We got Vietnam and Afghanistan, there aren’t any press today, be in certain war zones. It’s not in your papers. They already call it water report. Now, your regular discharge don’t show that. You get more related to every place you’ve been;; what you’re entitled to. Like what Brother Gainous, all these brothers send out?

	D:	Uh-­huh.



	W:	The Army gave every World War II vet a World War II metal certificate;; they honor Marines yet. It’s like World War II vets now all of a sudden now getting a





special World War II metal certificate for being there, okay. So you’re recognized for that.

	D:	Oh my goodness.



	P:	And who gives out that medal? W:	The governor!

	P:	Do the Marines do it?



	W:	The governor does it. Brother Gainous got a medallion at a VFW meeting that they did recognize him and gave him a special World War — remember the World War II coin I gave you? What’s hanging on? Now that’s [Inaudible at 1:18:06]. He says that a White brother told him to join the VFW. And believe it or not, he got over seventy-­two years in the VFW consecutive right now. Every time we have a state convention, they bring him up front and recognize him. He got a seventy years pin — only living brother got a seventy years pin in the VFW, still there.

	P:	But he still doesn’t have the World War II?



	W:	I’m saying he got a World War II medal, but I’m saying there’s history down in World War II.

	P:	Right.



	W:	A special World War II veteran.



	G:	About 30,000 hours community service. That’s when they recognized me as seventy years of being VFW. That’s for a foreign war. This is sixty-­five year pin they give me. That’s my rank right there: staff sergeant.

[Break in Recording]





	M:	This is Lieutenant General Roth [Inaudible at 1:21:16]. He was in Savannah State, Georgia. He flew in from Jacksonville where he gave us the medals.

	D:	Well this one is the bronze;; that one with three men on it. Now this one? G:	The United States of honor for the state of Florida.

	D:	Oh! The governor’s veterans service award. Honoring those who served. You have had some support from the state of Florida, then?

	G:	Yes.



	JA:	That was for all the veterans. M:	All the veterans.

	D:	Okay. All right.



	G:	That’s the key to the city.



	D:	Oh, you got the key to the city for Jacksonville? Oh, yeah! Mayor Alvin Brown, yes.

	G:	From Jacksonville.



	P:	My father died when I was fifteen. He was in the Army. And I always wanted to go and dig up this stuff, and find out everything about it.

	M:	The ones that we could find to get through the receiving mail, like I did a couple of times, but since then every now and then, you’ll find little truth. You know?

That’s the common thing.



	D:	If he get along you would— [Laughter]



	M:	That’s the common truth. Lieutenant Roth, oh he never come in with your



names.





	D:	This is you? When you were young? [To Alford Gainous]



	G:	That’s me. That’s when I was eighteen years old. [Laughter] D:	I got you.

	G:	See, I went in 1943. He went in 1944. [Break in Recording]

	R:	Did you all attend college after the Marines? JO:	He did.

	R:	You went to Tuskegee? Did ya’ll attend college after you left the Marines?



	M:	Well, I went for fulltime, but what I wanted in that particular time is what I really wanted. I was in the street more or less. Refrigeration and air conditioning, but I did finish New Yorkers tutors technology that was most days put up those screws after the war. And when I was up there, I was living there for a little while. I worked with a fella. Matter of fact, I was staying there, he had a one of those basements. So I worked with him until I went into the mail services.

	R:	Did you go to college? I heard you went to Tuskegee? How was that?



	G:	Yes. I went to trade school, because I always master with my hands and have always loved to make pretty things;; wedding cakes, the finest of food, garnish. And check the hind quarters of a cow, and bring specific cuts, like New York strips, even hamburger, stew. Chasing hogs to harvest, T-­bone steaks, or filling the yarn for hogs to harvest. I love the lake and all the sauces;; princess sauce with Cajun…my, I’m getting bad now!

[Laughter]



	R:	I know we’ll add it to the file!





	G:	I’ll let it go. [Laughter] But anyway, I graduated. Go by itself. I know all there is. Learned all the biochemics, herbalists. Traveled along the United States giving triple-­A ratings. Rushing around some hotels in the United States. So I really had a colorful life. Not only in school. Tuskegee wasn’t called a university at that time. It was called an institute;; Tuskegee institute. And Booker T. motto was if you can learn and teach, then Black people trade. Not only they can take care of themselves, then later on in life, they can become professionals and even president of the United States. Back then you saw Barack Obama, so I rate him as one the wise men, and I’m glad that I had a chance to the institute that he founded. He and George Washington Carver both were there. And George Washington Carver was a remarkable man.

	M:	With peanut—



	G:	Not only with peanut-­man. M:	Yeah, I know! [Laughter]

	G:	He’s known as the peanut-­man. M:	And opened schools.

	R:	Mr. Jones, did you attend college after the Marines? JO:	Unh-­uh.

	R:	Okay.



	D:	But you [Inaudible at 1:33:48]. You got a good life too. JO:	I’m still here.

	D:	That’s right. [Laughter] But to bring it back, is you were talking about Tuskegee information. You and so many other people have been the backbone of us in





nutrition, ‘cause I have a background in nutrition, too. And we have to go by science. And it was terrible.

G:   Well, yeah.



D:  And the chemistry! Oh my lord, but part of the deal you learned a lot of these skills that you use every day and night, especially with your food. Seeing with your food, how to make a meal with practically nothing. And we can a meal.

G:   Oh yeah.



	D:	Oh we can do it. They used the term once with us: wind sauce and air pudding. Have you ever heard that term? Wind sauce and air pudding? That means we didn’t have anything for dinner.

	G:	That’s right.



	D:	Wind sauce and air pudding. G:	[Laughter] Okay.

	D:	And we going to make a meal out of that;; wind sauce and air pudding.



	R:	So I have a question until they get back started. So when you all were doing in your training camps and stuff during this time, kind of like, in my research, I do sports history, and I do a lot of that, and I found like Camp Lejeune in North Carolina, they used to host basketball games. Were y’all familiar with athletics during your time in service in—?

	G:	I hate athletics.



	R:	[Laughter]





	G:	My daughter have all kind of trophies. Amazing was physical education;; she run track and everything else. She got rings and everything and board of hall of fame. But me, I hate…showing off with a mastery with my hands.

	R:	So you never played any sports, huh? G:	I hate…

	M:	He’s a business—



	P:	I don’t know how many times he’s said, “I hate!” [Laughter] R:	What about you all?

	D:	He’s a pastor and a seaman. Oh my goodness. You in the Air Force seal. Look at this.

	R:	Did you play any sports, were you familiar with athletics during your time? M:	Just in the [Inaudible at 1:36:49] run, not because I was too small or… JO:	Too slow.

	R:	You said too slow? [Laughter]



	D:	I was listening to you when you was talking about the man was tall and they was picking out. [Laughter]

[Break in Recording]



	P:	So now we have kinda general things about what’s going on today, but we wanna start with what went on with you during the Civil Rights time? Where were you and did some elements stand out to you?

	G:	During Civil Rights time, I was really doing many things, because I wanted to begin at every trade, and I mastered every trade there was in the building code. And I wanted to start from the bottom and go to the top. Kicking down doors that





looked like...person. I don’t like to use the word “Black men” because I also wanna recognize the Black woman. So I wanted to kick down doors where they could enter. So first of all, I was a chef cook. And being that I was already advanced at cooking, Tuskegee used me to go to different colleges and stuff to begin apprentice programs. Then after I graduated from Tuskegee, I went and traveled around the United States giving triple-­A ratings to Duncan Howard and Howard Johnson and also after then, I went into boilermaker and blacksmith in the shipyards here in Jacksonville, Florida. I was the first Black machinist in the shipyards in the southeast that they ever made. And after then, I went into the building construction;; helped build the national airport. I was foreman over all the concrete. And then after then, I went to building for myself — building houses and other — and renovating. I was tile setter, carpenter. One day, change that happened in my life, we was building the international airport, and I had about…I was foreman for all the concrete, and I had about twenty yards of concrete down on the ground. No lights, and the sun was setting. When you out in the open, when the sun begin to set, you can almost hear it fall. And the night was coming on. And our temporary light [Inaudible at 1:42:33] at the airport, to have light to finish the concrete. They like to put me in jail behind that, but I did it. And the only thing that saved me was their foreman. He told me when I was there, “You know, they call me Al. Al can do most anything. And when you mess up, you need somebody to cover it up for you.” Now if you put in a hammer, like your war hammer, say, you won’t be here, you’ll be fired, and he won’t be able to cover it up. So they rather not charge me than to…anyway.





	P:	Yeah, they don’t wanna lose that usefulness. G:	Yeah. Thank you. [Laughter]

	P:	So you weren’t involved in Civil Rights? In any of the goings on in the Civil Rights protests?

	G:	Yeah I was doing just about everything, I was trying to kick down doors for, you know…

	D:	I wanted to ask one question. When the GI bill came out and people could get house—

	G:	I went to Tuskegee on the GI Bill.



	D:	You went to Tuskegee. What did the other two — did you do anything on the GI Bill?

	M:	Yes, I went to school in Washington [Inaudible 1:44:22] refrigeration, and I worked with a guy up there until I went into the mailing service.

	D:	Okay. Did you get a chance to do anything with the bill Mr. Jones?



	JO:	I took up tailoring on the GI Bill, but I found out I didn’t like it after I finished it.



	D:	How about with your housing, did you have any response through housing with the GI Bill?

	M:	Well, I got my first little house under the GI Bill, I believe. I make no regards [inaudible 1:45:09] about their condition in Edgewood. Nine houses they build that first — and they didn’t start building any more until about two and a half, almost three years. So it was isolated out there, and the lane of the roads wasn’t but a straight, two lane — one of them was a straight main road. It was double, you could pass. And to catch the bus, the bus didn’t come down there. I had to





walk up to the bus line to catch the bus. It stayed like that for about two and half years or better before they start building again out there. And consequently that was the first little house I had.

	D:	Well that’s good. So you did get some responses. Some new stuff. How about you Mr. Gainous?

	G:	When I was from a little boy, I wanted to conquer poverty. So every dime that I made, and every paycheck that I received, from being in the service, I put in the bank. Wherein I could build myself a home. And after the war was over, and I graduated from Tuskegee, I come back to Jacksonville because this was the only place I wanted to live after traveling everywhere, I wanted to live in Jacksonville. And I was twenty-­four years old when I build my home, and I never paid rent in my life. I never had a mortgage in my life.

	P:	What a life.



	D:	Yes. That was a blessing. G:	Yes.

	D:	Did you do some of the work yourself for the house? G:	I built the house.

	D:	I can imagine. It’s beautiful.



	G:	So I never cash in on the Bill — the what they call? The FHA? D:	The FHA? Uh-­huh. For the housing community.

	P:	Also you can still wait and you can still get that GI Bill. You can still get another house then.





	G:	[Laughter] No, I had a lot of houses. I bought a lot of houses. Sold a lot of houses. So I don’t want no more property. Property, when I was young, property was this thing to have. But after Black people began to own — I don’t want to use the word “heat” — plenty of property, then the building code begin to change.

Then to have property was almost a burden;; tax code begin to change. To have property was almost a burden. So I got rid of most of the property that I had.

	M:	But he still got some more. [Laughter] D:	He gone have some.

	M:	He still got some more though!



	D:	Mr. Jones, anything you want to add in regards to the GI Bill and the use of it for you and your family?

	JO:	No.



	D:	Well, I know you told us about tailoring.



	JO:	Well that’s about it. Other than that, I started truck driving and doing warehouse work, and bought a home I’ve been living in for about forty-­seven years. Been married for sixty-­five. Got about, I can’t remember now, but I think about sixteen or seventeen grandchildren, around there. Five great grands. So I think I been blessed pretty well along the way.

	D:	You truly have, absolutely.



	JO:	If I make it to February the fifteenth, I’ll be — what, eighty-­seven? P:	Just a young man!

	D:	Yes, yes. [Laughter]





	JO:	That’s why I have to let them go first. I got McIvory first, and Gainous is next oldest, and I come along behind them.

	G:	Gainous is first oldest. M:	No, Gainous is first.

	G:	McIvory is second.



	M:	I’m second. I’m the clean-­up man.



	P:	So, Raj has a couple questions to ask you. Raj?



	R:	Y’all talked about being in Jacksonville coming back and settling in Florida, and we know that St. Augustine had its Civil Rights movement. Did that wave ever come up to Jacksonville? That y’all experience the movement—

	G:	During the time you talking about, I was too poor to stank about St. Augustine. I was really, in my later years, before I even visited St. Augustine, because the only thing that I could even imagine was to bring my people — when I speak of my people I’m talking about my siblings and my mother — out of poverty. So then I had to come back and my focus was to send my two sisters back to college where they could get a decent job, build them a home where they could have a beautiful home. And I built it right there.

	M:	Built it behind me.



	G:	Behind his house. Yeah, with a big yard. One street over, the two back fences are the same. I built it for them and gave it to them where they have a place that they then look like they really come out the, and maybe pronounce the word wrong, ghetto. So, I mean, my focus was on that, and my focus been always on





improving our life condition, so I had no reason to think about other things other than to improve our life condition.

	D:	If everybody else was thinking like you, would we be far ahead. Definitely.



	G:	Yeah, I said to myself, I would never let my mother live the way she had to live during the time, and I would never abuse a woman. Because they was very good to me.

	M:	You’re supposed to always protect the ladies.



	P:	Did any of you, either one of you, have something to say about the Civil Rights protests?

	M:	Well, in the Civil Rights protest here, in Jacksonville, I witnessed it at the time because the days that, well the sit-­ins, I was probably working mostly on the train, come in. There’s one time that the protest started downtown, in the main part of the city down town, and they gradually moved up into the Black areas wherein it was, say, coming up into the little business areas. Well, I had the chance to observe some of it, and I would say this. The wrong type of people — it was a guy named — what’s his name? He had a barber shop down on Hogan Street, where the Seminole Hotel was — what that guy’s name — but he was strictly a racist. So when I, as a boy, I used to see him, I used to deliver shoes for shoe repair at Harry Hendon down there. Now if one thing in my life, when I was growing up, I would not take a subservient job as a shoe shine boy with a box and, well, now, not disparaging, but waiting the table. I’ve seen people who waited tables;; they’ve taken care of their families. So there wasn’t anything wrong with it, but it was just something I wouldn’t wanna do. Because I had a





friend, a friend of the family, he had like a head waiter, at least of the banquet room, and so he used to say, “Why don’t you come and do work and do your job?” And I say, “I don’t know nothing about waiting, man.” And so, he kept on, and so I went out there and I just witnessed the people how they was talking to some of the guys, or something like that, I knew that wasn’t for me. To make a long story short, well, I just witnessed that this particular fella who owned this barber shop down on Hogan Street, it was in the Seminole Hotel, and he was a racist. And so every time something happened, you would see him all out in front. So what happened, he made the bad mistake of coming up into the Black section there, made one, and the young boys, they put a whipping on him and his crew. [Laughter] They did, see. But he was out his league then. But it’s just something I noticed. You could get along very well, but you — they won’t attack you — they’ll attack you if they have the physical size on you, one-­on-­one, but barely one-­on-­ one is always two or three. But with us, I don’t care whether it’s one-­on-­one or two or three. You do what you have to do when you have to do it. That’s the way I look at it. But it’s a matter of taking care of business at the time, or whatever you have to do. With me, I’m peaceful. I don’t wanna hurt nobody. Don’t tread on me.

[Laughter]



	JO:	Well I know, during that time, I went to some of them. Some of the Civil Rights movements was good, and they were bad. But see a lot of times, when you got people out there in the streets, just out there wanna make a name for themselves or enrich theyself or something like that, they burn down neighborhoods, destroy





a lot of property and businesses and stuff in the Black neighborhood. The White people owned those businesses, wherein still, the Blacks had to go to the business because there weren’t no other businesses in the neighborhood. During the riot time, they burn them down. They went out to the avenue mall and some places, some parts, of Jacksonville now you can’t even find the grocery store.

And places like that, see, where the Whites had the businesses, but when the Blacks rioted and burn the place down, they moved out and let the Blacks down. Some of them don’t have transportation. To get around they [inaudible 2:00:24] to the grocery store. So that’s why I said that some of it was good and some of it was bad. Got to use your head.

	G:	I saw the Civil Rights movement a little different, because I’m a warrior. There were things in the Civil Rights movement, I didn’t believe in, but maybe I’m wrong. I’m not going get down on my knees and pray while somebody sic dogs, shoot water hose, on me. I’m not gonna do that. I’m not gonna march, but I’m gonna try my best to make myself dignified, to be ready for anything that comes along that would help my condition be qualified, and I would never let somebody just spit on me.

	M:	Ooh, he’ll be dead. P:	[Laughter]

	G:	And I’d kick him back. So I saw it a little bit different. I believed in war. I believe in fighting fire with fire, so I saw it a little bit different. I’m glad in one way, and I’m sorry in another way, because it seem as if because we didn’t get the way I’m talking about, we’re going backwards, instead of forwards. You see? That’s it.





	JO:	Well, everybody got their own opinion about things, but that’s why I said myself, look, it was good in one way and it was bad in another way. We couldn’t accept and go around like Jacksonville was here — you had a White fountain and a colored fountain in the City Hall down there. You gonna drink out this White fountain over here, the police’ll jack you up, take you to jail. Everywhere you went, we couldn’t even go into the restaurants, like McDonald’s and Wendy’s and all those restaurants, we had a little side door cut in the hole in there. Say, people if you wanted something from there, you could go around there and they’d shove it out there to you. You couldn’t go sit down at a table like this. I seen all of that. So we’ve come a long ways in the Civil Rights Movement, and I appreciate Martin Luther King, but we had some agitators come in here along with Martin Luther King that really upset the people and next thing you know, they catch a plane, they going on away from here, and leave the people holding the bag for all this that they done destroyed while they was here. But still people say, “So-­and-­ so did so-­and-­so for.” I’m not calling no names ‘cause I don’t want no blame. But all of that…

	P:	So in that frame of society, when did you first vote? G:	Vote?

	P:	Vote. When I asked my step-­mother once, what was the best thing in her life, it was when she vote.

	G:	Lemme tell you something. Suffrage bill in the 1800s was to prevent Black people to vote. Black people been voting ever since then. They had the rights to vote ever since then. But when the south came along, which they was called the





Dixiecrat, and that main capitalist they had, it was [Inaudible at 2:05:37]. They didn’t want Black people to enjoy the right to elect their civil and national personnel’s, politicians, so then they began the Ku Klux Klans to stop Black people from voting. But when I was a little boy, I remember our mothers voting Republican, because that was all that we was allowed to vote in was Republican. If you thought about voting Democrat, we would be lynched. We was bullied outta voting, but it was our right always to vote.

	D:	But we didn’t want to be a democrat back in those days anyway. Democrats were the Red Shirts.

	G:	That’s right. They were the Dixiecrats.



	D:	So we knew we didn’t wanna go there. So we had to be Republicans. G:	Yeah, but we was voting.

	D:	Yes. Those that were able to get there to vote. G:	You had a poll tax, remember the poll tax?

	D:	Yes, sir.



G:  They had a poll tax there, and just like you said, the ones that was able, they would vote.

D:  That’s right, and most of them were land owners, in order to vote. Those that didn’t have anything, most of them did not vote. So that was still a separation right there between those that had and those that didn’t have property.

	M:	I couldn’t get a library card. You had to have someone owning properties. So my oldest aunt, she was the one in the family who always had one more [Inaudible at 2:07:54] and all of them just “push it push it” and “bounce it bounce it.” She was





the one had the accumulation of the property, so she had to carry me to the local library, and our library wasn’t like a regional library, a big library, it was a small library. But, anyway, she signed me so I could check out books to carry home.

And boy that was the greatest thing for me because I would leave them with four or five books, and I read them too. Like that Twenty Thousand Leagues under the Sea.

	P:	Oh yeah. I remember.



	M:	I remember. I’m sure now it’s so long ago. All that was older than me when people start talking about it.

	P:	So, it just seems like Black people as a society, we had that right to vote, and we weren’t allowed to vote, then we got the right to vote, but this year, we had less Blacks voting. What do you think about that?

	G:	What I think about it is, Black people seem — I’m speaking from how I feel about



— it feels like we had more when we wasn’t allowed to vote than we have now. We look at everything at face value, but then we not look beneath the thing and see what it’s all about. It seem like, if we have stepped backwards because the candidates that they have up now is a disgrace, both of them, is a disgrace. Now don’t get me wrong that I don’t want to see a woman be president. I’d want to see a Black president and see a woman be vice-­president. I’m all for that. But the fact is that each one of these people have on them, they ain’t fit to be in the White House to lead nobody, and Black people see that as if it’s really useless to even go vote. So that’s the reason for it;; they have nothing to vote for. Really and truly, to go and pull a lever, no? Just to a pull a lever.





	D:	Well, they did go pull the lever for Barack Obama. G:	That’s right, sure.

	D:	They did. And we went out there and voted. M:	But they were more enthused.

	D:	Well there was a reason. He was the first Black president also, but then he is a man of the people. And so the difference between him and the other situation was that he went to all the different counties within the state, whereas other candidates only went to certain key counties;; the larger places. And they didn’t get out there and shake the hands and walk and go to twenty people in an audience, they wanted the big audiences. And that made a big difference.

	G:	But just look at what happened when they created the thing they called state rights. They made sure that three things that Black people would never be taught. The first thing is war. The second thing is business. And the third thing is making. So they would never be taught to do that. And even today we can create things, but it will never come out that we create it because we can’t mass produce it.

	D:	Yeah that’s it. Can’t get the patent either. G:	Yeah, that’s right.

	D:	We go back to the cotton gin on that one.



	G:	So then really and truly, even back before the Revolutionary War, things haven’t changed very much for us. It seems as if it has changed, and seems like we are really ahead, but we still living in shacks. You can’t compare a 200,000 dollar or half a million dollar house from a person that own a ten million dollar house — it’s





a shack to them. So we still are living in shacks. We still don’t have the youth coming out of college and high school as it should be.

	M:	They’re all incarcerated. D:	Thank you!

	G:	Not only they’re incarcerated, it also that on the streets of where they live, the community of where they live, the only employment there is crime. See, so this was dumped in by the president of the United States himself to finance a war.

	P:	So Mr. Jones, what do you have to say about this last election and people not voting?

	JO:	I don’t know. I can’t understand it. D:	It’s still puzzling, isn’t it?

	JO:	Yeah, ‘cause I mean, we have two candidates out there, one seems to be qualified, the other one seems not to be qualified to be president. So you had a choice. A lot of people say, “Well, I’m not going to vote for either one of them.” And Trump, naturally he wouldn’t… I wouldn’t vote for him, because I don’t like his style and he didn’t show me nothing, he never showed me all this stuff now. He was talking on the — he’s backing up off it now, saying he might do this and he might do, but all the time that he was campaigning, “I’m gonna do so-­and-­so.” Like, our president over there, he’s got a lot of people up in West Virginia. I seen yesterday where the whole town voted for Trump up there, because it’s a coal-­ mining town up there, see. They are outta jobs and everything, and they heard him say that he was gonna bring jobs and stuff back up in that country. That whole town voted for him. So people were misled on both sides.





	G:	One thing I believe in that’s most important than even voting is that every Black man is supposed to build them a home, plant him a garden, and be a father to his children, and a husband to his wife. No matter who, what president, or whoever come into power, if you have that within yourself you can conquer the world. I believe that with all my heart that Black men are supposed to be a husband to his wife.

	P:	So we really have a last question, and we really wanna know about the medals that you received, about your experience at receiving these medals after so many years. Mr. McIvory, can you kick it off? We wanna know about the medals that are hanging around your neck. Were you surprised when they decided to give these medals?

	M:	Well, this from the first inception between Congresswoman Corrine Brown and Kagan, North Carolina and also our public relations man, Mr. Gader, and our state representative, Tony Hill, those people along with — lobbying the Congress, the different officers there, and I guess telling our story of the things that we had been through. So it felt like we were very neglected to a point, and we should have been recognized just like the Tuskegee air men and the Buffalo soldiers. We should have been worthy of these congressional medals, and so I understand that there wasn’t a nay vote, everything was in the aye. So it was really a delight to see and receive this medal, but most of all, what I really enjoyed, it wasn’t just a medal, but just to see which I wasn’t aware of, our young Black participants then in the service, and the rank that they held. And things I didn’t know myself until I received a book when they had a convention in Atlanta.





There was at least seventeen generals, Black generals, and I didn’t know anything about that. And then when I look at all the other non-­commissioned ratings and stuff, I didn’t know anything. What I mean, just walking around here, and look, and within our organization, I look at our president there, and we got so many master sergeants, tank sergeants, all kinda sergeants, you know what I mean? Higher ratings all up the ladder. I just stood there in awe. Just there to say, “Mm!” And then there was young women, and ooh, it was just beautiful, and something I will never forget. I’ll never forget it. But then they were telling me, you paved the way — but to me, I been feeling just good for them;; just to see them and how they made it. I just loved to see them!

	G:	The congressional gold medal. I don’t think — I don’t know, but I don’t think — it have anything to do with military. I think this the highest honor that they give a civilian. I think, I don’t know. To have the highest honor given to me that comes from a second-­class citizen, to the highest person among the highest persons in the United States of America, means everything in the world to me. The first time that I ever seen a Black person be honored with this medal was Senator Edward Brooke. I never dreamed that I would have the same medal hanging around my neck, and the second person I seen with this medal placed around their neck was Height — just while ago I forgot.

	M:	His name?



	G:	Height.



	M:	Higher?





	G:	Dorothy Height. I never dreamed or heard of the Buffalo soldiers. I knew some of the Tuskegee airmen, but I never in my life dreamed that it would be hanging around my neck. So I’m thankful to come from the bottom of civilization and now I’m on top. I thank very much. Thank you.

	JO:	Well, I say it’s an honor for me to have a congressional gold medal, and I appreciate it very much. I honor it and respect it, because like so many other people, I didn’t ever think I would get one, but the reason I got this one was because I read the newspaper in the morning. Okay, so I didn’t know anything about it. We were in line for the congressional gold until I read the paper one morning, seen where these guys was going up to Washington up there to meet the president and everything, I said well, I was up there in North Carolina during that time too. So I came around here and talked to the post commander and he told me, and he said yeah they mixed over here, so they then gave me the Ron’s address and phone number, and I called Ron and told him, He said, “Look, I hear y’all was Montford Point marines up there.” “Yup.” So I said well, “I was in Montford Point from [19]46 until [19]49.” So when I came over here and talked to him and everything, then he got in touch with the people and took my paperwork from there and everything, and they presented me with the congressional gold down at City Hall here in Jacksonville. And I’m so proud and happy to be a member of Chapter 29.

	D:	Now the second medal that you have around your neck is for Florida, is that correct?

	JO:	Yeah, the government gave us these over at the armory out there.





	D:	You’ve done so much, but I’d like to see more of it filter into our Black men and Black boys. They need to see you and to understand what you all have gone through. And we’re hoping that what we’ve done here today will be a way to help get that information to them.

	G:	I understand exactly what you’re saying, but it’s so hard to get our people, our youth, to listen to us now, because we’re supposed to be example as the song says, “summer [Inaudible 2:27:08] and…hot dog! But anyway, when they destroy the dinner table in the home and send the family out to Burger King and the rest of the restaurants, instead of the child looking up to his mother.

	M:	And his father.



	G:	For food. For shelter. For clothing. And make him or her the very — almost the second god in his life — then if you can bring back that, then you can go forward. But to jump over that and think you can bring the youth back to the home, or carry them to a university or college, to learn something when they should have learned it right at home. Until that come back, then it’ll be different world.

	D:	You spoke well, thank you. Thank you, it’s so true.



	G:	I’m ninety-­two. And things, they’re not going, but to step away from me, and I almost get embarrassed because it step away from me.

	D:	Aww don’t do that. Speak. Well we wanna think you today for taking the time—



	G:	And you know, of all the interviews that I had, or that Ron taught before me, or anybody else, I seem to enjoy this group better than all.

	P:	Yay!



	D:	Thank you.





	G:	And I thank you, and may the lord of the universe continue to bless you. You all



— when I say “you” I mean plural. All right.



	D:	We really appreciate that, you’ve just been so honest and straightforward with us, we didn’t have to find you at all. You know sometimes you can’t get information from people — you’re just downright calm, and you’re telling the truth, so that’s the part that’s so good. Thank you.

	P:	Did you have some last words for us there?



	M:	I just appreciate you all coming to us and giving us the opportunity to express ourselves. This is the first time really — we may have expressed ourselves before, we have had several interviews, but about far, to me, your questions, really put us more or less at ease in a sense;; let us just talk, whatever, and maybe you will go through that and straighten it out. Because you know, I understand that just like he have a pause, sometimes I have those pauses also, and I think we all kinda lower level expressions in a sense, but it’s a thing with us. We just keep pushing. It’s really heartening to me to see our young people, and especially the boys — well girls too because some of them are — they just don’t understand — but I tell you, I just wanna give you an accolade or whatever. Our president, he have a son in college, and he is the highest — what you can say — active of what a dad should be. There’s nothing under the sun, I think he would move heaven and the whole earth for his son, and keeping him straight, and it also — he’s a very nice young man, and he is blessed to have a family. Now you take like me, coming up I didn’t really see my father till I was twelve years of age. But no, he was my father. But, so, my mother carried me up to shop, “He’s your





dad,” you know what I mean? Listen, so the thing about it is I always been like a standoff person, whereby he would come up to the shop, and I guess he was going to learn me the trade. But first I ain’t going to admire it. I saw a shoe shine stand. [Laughter]

	G:	I ain’t shining no shoes.



	M:	Because I just used to see them little boys down on the streets, shining them shoes. But most of the time it’d be downtown, it’d be all the way. To me, anything that was like degrading or something, I never adhered to it. I would stay away. I would never let them push it on me. I try to talk sometime to the youth because

— our president, and along with some of our other fellas, we would go on out to the high school. That was when [Inaudible at 2:34:23] talking to the students there. And more or less, we had been to the more senior high schools and all, and so much until just one of the professors, instructors, would turn around, he was trying to get us.

	P:	I was just thinking, any military history class would just love to listen to you. Just fabulous stories and so heartfelt. I really appreciated that.

	G:	Y’all ever coming back to see us?



	P:	Well, yeah, you know what, we need to come back and see you, because we have more questions we didn’t ask.

	D:	We didn’t ask everything.



	P:	We’d like to hear more exactly about what you did and what roles you’ve done.



Want to get in depth. How you were





	D:	We’re closing at 2:20 p.m. on Tuesday, November the 17th, 2016. We are in Jacksonville, Florida, and we have interviewed Mr. Alford Gainous, Mr. George McIvory, and Mr. Leroy Jones, Jr. These are three men who have taken time to talk to us about the military life. We are at the American Legion 192, our address again is 2179 Benedict Rd, Jacksonville, Florida, zip code is 32209. We wish to thank them for their time, their experiences, for dealing with all issues that we’ve covered today, including discrimination, dealing with contacts of other people and their work.

[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Chris Calton, August 27, 2018 Audit-­Edited by:	Jennifer Romero, July 25, 2019 Final Edited by:	Sandra Romero, October 23, 2020