AAHP 014; Vickers; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 014 Larnell Vickers African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on March 3, 2010 60 minutes | 35 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Larnell Vickers, recently elected as student body president of University of Florida, talks about his experience growing up in Miami and attending a private Christian school. He also talks about life at the University of Florida, his experiences in speech and debate, his idea of leadership and what that means for African Americans, and his Christian faith.



Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida; Speech and Debate]



























































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 014

Interviewee: Larnell Vickers Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: March 3, 2010



	W:	This is Marna Weston with the Oral History Program with the University of Florida on March 3rd, 2010 in the studios of the Sam Proctor Oral History Program with Student Body Vice President Larnell Vickers. Larnell, thank you so much for agreeing to doing the interview today.

	V:	Oh, no problem. I’m definitely honored and privileged to be here and to give this interview, and to just share my thoughts with the program. So, thank you.

	W:	Thank you. You’ve had an incredible academic and co-curricular career here at the University of Florida culminating in being elected Student Body Vice President, as well as being a major force of this year’s Black History Month from all accounts. So congratulations on that.

	V:	Thank you.



	W:	Today I will like to talk to you a little bit about those achievements, and also to get some background about you, the Larnell Vickers that scholars in the future and Gators for all time might want to know a little bit about. First, what’s something about Larnell Vickers that we would want to know that probably a lot of people don’t know?

	V:	All right, I will definitely say like, one of the things I would just like to be, let known just in the terms of like my really Christian upbringing, that really set a lot of the foundation of who I am today. My dad serves as a pastor. My mother is very active in the church and actually served as a school teacher within the church home that I grew up in. They have a branch where they have a school where the students of the church go to school. So I went thru that school from first to eighth





grade. And so my mom was actually the one who actually taught me how to read and how to write, and that’s the gist of who I am today. So I am defiantly greatly appreciative of my parents who set that strong foundation and not just in terms of the good parenting, but in terms of the Christian principles that allow me to live out my values and live out integrity that’s honest and truthful.

	W:	Thank you for being so candid and sharing that. Since you mention your parents and of course that’s very important to you. First can you say when and where you were born?

	V:	I was born in Miami, Florida June 11, 1988, to the parents of Larnell and Robin Vickers.

	W:	Were you parents both Floridians? Are they from the state? V:	Yes.

	W:	A little bit about your dad’s parents for a little bit, your grandparents on that side.



What were their names?



	V:	My dad’s grandparents Arthur Vickers and Viola Vickers are very upstanding individuals, and they’re also Floridians as well. They actually originated as far as born and having parents there, in Ocala, Florida. Then my grandmother moved to Miami, like that. So that’s how we get our Miami origination from. But my dad’s grandparents, my dad’s parents are very, again, just really in the word and my grandmother’s actually still alive today. My grandfather has passed away but ultimately the jewels that I’ve known my grandfather until, up until the age of eight years old. But the memories I do have of him are a very fond. I’m rather very fond of him and my grandmother she’s still alive and still up and moving. So, yeah.





	W:	What are your grandparent’s names on your dad’s side? V:	Arthur Vickers and Viola Vickers

	W:	Okay, now this is stretching a little bit and this is probably maybe something to ask your parents but since you’re here, in a captive audience, do you know a lot about your dad’s parents, parents?

	V:	Uh-huh



	W:	What are their names?



	V:	So my dad’s parents’ parents?



	W:	Mmhm, so like your great grandparents. Do you know much about them?



Sometimes people don’t know so much about them but I thought I would ask since we had the opportunity.

	V:	Right, well actually I don’t know too much information about them. I know in terms of we have family reunions each year and the actually title of the family reunion is John and Sarah Nunn. So we come from the Nunn lineage. So it’s a Nunn family reunion and so that goes back to my dad’s great, great, great, great, grandparents. So John and Sarah Nunn. I don’t know in terms of specifics of that lineage and from that point, to my dad’s parents. But John and Sarah Nunn is where is originates from and as well as that lineage originated again in Ocala, Florida.

	W:	Okay, so those are the progenitors and if you were at the family reunion, you could look down at the family tree you could see where everything was but you don’t have it with you today.

	V:	Right.





	W:	Okay great. Let’s talk about your mom’s side for a second. Who are your mom’s parents and how much do you know about them?

	V:	Yeah, my mom’s parents are Charles and Betsy Henry. They are some great individuals. They are also Floridians, but they moved Atlanta, Georgia about five years ago. My mother’s mom served as a school teacher. So my mom kind of followed in that same path as a school teacher.

	W:	And what was her name, your mom’s mom. V:	Betsy Henry.

	W:	Okay.



	V:	My father, he served as in term of different things in the school system in the administrative position and role. My family is really big on education and that has always been a pillar in our family has well. That’s a little bit about my mother’s parents. I mean their awesome individuals and they’re both still living today.

	W:	Terrific, that’s a blessing. Now you have brothers and sisters. How many and could you tell a little bit about them?

	V:	I have three siblings. I have an older brother. Warnell Ave Alonso Vickers, Jr. I have a younger sister, Leandria Vickers and she actually attends the University of Florida currently.

	W:	I’m one of her friends of Facebook.



	V:	[Laughter] Awesome, and I have a younger brother, Lyndall Isaac Vickers, he’s currently in high school. In his first year of high school, he’s in the ninth grade.

	W:	Okay, terrific. So you’re the second of four? V:	Yes





	W:	Do you find now that, since your older brother is doing other things that you kind of get to show leadership to your sister and your youngest brother a little bit more?

	V:	Yeah, definitely. I think I’ve set a standard. I love my brother but we’re two different individuals and we believe in different capacities and different areas of life. In the area of life that I’ve always been passionate about was education, as well as activism towards the community and organizing people and putting on different events. So into the area, I feel like I’ve definitely led my siblings in the right directions and showing them a role model of a strong black male leader.

Especially with my sister being here at the University of Florida, and seeing the things I’ve done on this campus. I think has really motivated her to do great things as well, because she’s not always the most outgoing person and she really good in terms of her education but sometimes she doesn’t try to go above and beyond. We’re really challenging to go above and beyond and do great things. Its [inaudible 6:52] role model for her.

	W:	So by example to kind of set a path that she could follow. Not to mandate it but to give her that option.

	V:	Uh-huh



	W:	Had the same thing, being the eldest brother of two younger brothers; Mario and Marco because in high school I was on the debate team, they had to be on the debate team. So I know what’s that’s like. I would like to talk to you for a second about leadership. You’ve distinguished yourself as being Vice President of student body. Are there other leadership positions that you’ve taken here at the





University of Florida? After you answer that question, I’ll like to take you back to earlier education and ask you when first started looking at leadership as something important to do. But at the University of Florida, besides being Vice President of the student, what leadership roles have you held?

	V:	Alright, I’ve held a lot of leadership roles. Some of the one’s that are really and dear to my heart was serving as the Vice President of the Black Student Union. I think that was one of the roles that I was most, just really getting into leadership, in terms of leading people. Really having a huge budget, really being held accountable for my actions, and really being insufficiable for the first time in my life. To be look at and you know every move on my Facebook or being careful of some of the things I’ve said, because I knew people were looking up to me. So starting my role as a Vice President. Also things I’ve lead in as terms of Preview staff, was something else that was a great experience. One of the things that was very memorable to me was the fact that I was able to plan the Legends Ball. I was able to serve on the 50th anniversary committee for the integration of Black students on this campus, which was a wonderful experience. I was literally on a committee, I was the only student on that committee and I was among different people, who had done great things and very knowledgeable about the University of Florida and it was a great experience. Through that committee I was responsible for planning the legend ball, where we honored different legends and different people who really contributed to the fight to get Blacks where they are today. So serving in that role and being that liaison to the students on campus, to the Black community on campus, and to students in general, was an awesome





and I definitely wouldn’t trade it for the world. That was great experience, where I got to a chance to meet great and lead in ways that I’ve lead before. So those are some of the things I’ve done and really, really grew from and really got me prepared for the things I’ve done this year and years past.

	W:	Well you’ve mentioned some great activities and that’s actually how you came to my attention. You’ve worked with Celebrate the Firsts, and also with the Council of Diversity. People mentioned you as the student involved to get information from. So again congratulations. Let’s talk about your earlier education. What are your first memories of education? You mentioned something about your mom teaching you how to read. So what are your earliest educational memories?

V:  From first to eighth grade, I attend a school called West Coast School for Human Development. It was a private Christian school founded through the church home that I attended, while back in Miami.

W:   What city was that? Miami?



	V:	Miami, Florida. My mother served as assistant principal. My dad’s a principal, being that’s he’s a pastor, so dual roles they were in. It was defiantly a unique experience overall. Definitely I think when we talk about in terms of education today and how its changed and the accountability, in the terms of the discipline of students, in terms of the expectations of students, has definitely changed.

Because I knew back in the day, like in terms of really being disciplined when I spoke out of turn, or really being challenged at my highest expectations, that I really think, those things have really instilled certain things in me, to really go above and beyond. And I really don’t see that in today’s education system, in





terms of our students and wanting them to really push the bar. Really challenge and go above and beyond. One of the things I remember, in terms of my, of the students, my friends and the type of people they were, I remember in terms of the teachers, I remember this lady called, her name is Jackie Walker. She was my math teacher. Math isn’t my strong subject, but she really worked with me, in terms of the subject, and really showed love and compassion to me and really in terms, of going above and beyond and which I never saw before. I never, in terms of someone who cared so much in terms of my education. That kind of inspires me, I guess this kind—we can talk about that later on, in terms of now joining the Teach for America Corp, and will being that for the next two years, in terms of teaching English to high school students in Atlanta, Georgia, and really helping to bridge the education inequality gap that we currently face in America and really to my hearts of hearts really going after that and really helping to make a difference and make a impact in that area. And I think a lot of that ties back to my education and how I was raised and how I brought up. Those are some of the memories I remember growing up.

	W:	Were you involved in extracurriculars from first to eighth grade? Was there something that took place in your middle school career, between grammar school and middle, that made you think, “Oh I’m a leader.” Were you involved in drama, or sports, or anything like that.

	V:	Well, it’s funny because that thing is that I went to a parish school. It was very small, so we didn’t have a lot of extra-curricular activities, in general. So, my extra-curricular activities that I found to keep me occupied were being involved in





the church. I started as the sound technician. I really didn’t have any interest but that something that was a need and I fulfilled it and I started getting involved in that area. One of the things I love to do is to dance, so I definitely helped to choreograph and to act, in terms of the current ways of dance that we see, in terms of hip-hop but really spin it and have it where there is more so God and inspirational messages being sent through hip-hop dance group. Doing that and being a part of that, those were my involvements and even going to my high school, I went to public high school from ninth to tenth grade and then I transferred out and I went to school for advanced studies, which allowed me to get my Associates Arts degree and as well as my high school diploma at the same time. Throughout my time and experience, it’s so funny, throughout my time and experience I never really had that typical experience, I would say like a student whom gone through elementary, middle school, high school, who probably had, you know gone to a parish school then going to Miami Lakes Technical School.

	W:	Miami Lakes Technical?



	V:	Yeah, so it’s a technical school. We had actual adults on campus, as well as it’s a high school. You can earn your technical degree as well a high school diploma, but I decided to transfer out and go to the school for grad studies and go on in terms of more so being college bound and earning college credits and getting ready college and as well as earn my high school diploma. I was really academically focused. Not too much on the involvement leadership. I knew it was in me and I knew I could do it. Which I think being that I did not burn myself or I





didn’t get too heavy in terms to get on leadership roles, that when I got to the University of Florida, I was really hot inspired and ready to turn it on and really make an impact on the University of Florida campus.

	W:	What was the name of the school that followed Miami Lakes Technical? V:	School for Advanced Studies

	W:	It’s just called the School for Advanced Studies? V:	Uh-huh.

	W:	Okay. What is your definition of leadership?



	V:	My definition of leadership is really making an impact on another individual’s life.



Really honestly making an impact and leading another individual to be better than you are. That’s my definition of leadership, really going out of your way, really helping to mold, shape and really making an impact on a group of people. If it’s through mentorship or it’s just through your action and how you carry yourself, in terms of how you conduct business or how you interact on a daily basis. Role modeling that type of behavior that other people see that leadership and want to leader in that certain way or matter and that you’re leading them in a certain way that they’re going to grow and lead better than you are. So that what I define as leadership in terms of really making an impact on another individual life.

	W:	How did you form that definition? Were there individuals or is it your upbringing or you know some of your spiritual values? Where does that come from, that you come up with this definition?





	V:	The thing is I really formalized that definition of leadership for myself about a couple of months ago. In terms of really looking down in myself and looking in terms of the things I’ve done and I really came to the conclusion that for me leadership is really helping to lead and really motivate others. I think I’ve heard different definition and I’ve gone to several leadership conference and I’ve done several different things and I’ve think I’ve seen people who I’ve lead before but have not really inspired or really help motivate or even challenge someone to be better then themselves. I’ve seen leaders in terms of really making sure that, that person there growing does not exceed their standard or exceed who they are, because they’re scared of having the limelight taken off of them, and for me its about the work, it’s about the people, it’s about the society that we want to see be better for our next generation. And for that to be better, it takes for better leaders in the current leaders that we have in today’s generation. That is what I define as leadership. I’ve heard different definitions, but at the same time not every leader that has fit other definitions that I’ve heard, really has really fit in the one I chose in term of leading others, because of the fact of the people who lead us may not lead others effectively.

	W:	You’ve talked about faith and you’ve began with. You’ve talk about family and I’ve directed you toward leadership and you have brought us to kind of a point in the interview where I would like to ask you, what inspires you and who inspires you?

	V:	What inspires me is people and I really think in terms of people and the society and the context that people live in that really inspires me and the everyday daily





actions that transpire, that effect people is really what inspires me. I mean for me I literally get up and read the newspaper every single day and look at the world and see so many things that can be done, that could be worked on. If that wasn’t there, then there would be nothing to inspire me. I really look to really make an impact and hopefully later down the road start a foundation that I’m able to start to finish to really make an impact and to really make a dent in terms of things that really detrimentally affect our community and affect our world. That is what really inspires me, people and the context that we as people live in and helping to raise the bar is what inspires me a lot. I really just care about people and I thinks that through the love of God and through the God has shown me, that I want to show to other. It is a trickle-down effect to love God, God’s love and the blessings He’s given to me and the blessings that I want to give to other people. I prayed a prayer actually at the beginning of this year in terms of saying that, you know, “Lord, if you bless me, Lord, I would definitely pour back doublefold unto other people, and bless them even more than you’ve blessed me”. So that’s something I’ve made, a promise to God. That what inspires me, people.

	W:	Who inspires you?



	V:	Who inspires me? Its two full people, who have gone on, and have passed away.



Definitely, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Different people who have passed away and I just read about them. I can’t say they inspire me because I don’t know them. I’ve never met them, but in terms of seeing the work they’ve done and I think people who are bold and daring and people who really step out of the mold to make a difference and to see the pattern that world is on and helps changes it





and take it in a different direction to make for a better life for others, is something that I really admire and see. I think people who, when growing up I read about that’s what inspires me. Today people who inspires me is my Dad. My dad, who is a strong upstanding man, who’s still living, who instilled values in me and continue to remind me of those values and God, who’s first in my life and will always be first in my life.

	W:	On Sunday we’ve share the opportunity of attending the closing ceremonies for this year’s African American History Month of the University of Florida. That was the retirement ceremony, the one that we did on campus; it was several before, but the retirement ceremony for Dr. Betty J. Fullwood, who’s been the Director of the Black Student for many years. I want to ask how you felt about the ceremony.

	V:	The ceremony was awesome. I actually got a chance to know her very closely, as the Vice President of the Black Student Union. She’s been the advisor for the Black Student Union for thirty-five years. She is truly a wealth of knowledge. At the same time I’m glad we’re doing things like this, the oral parts of history, because as a student if we don’t have people like here, where does the past information, how could we get a hold of the information, how can we learn about. I have a person right of me who knew about the history of Blacks on this campus, that I could just call her up, go to her office, talk to her, but don’t always be the case as we go throughout years, throughout decades, that always won’t be the case that we have people we are like historical books walking on this campus.

Things like this are great to capture history, to capture it so people can listen to it and really look back. For me, I think it’s a celebration, at the same time it is a





blow to the University of Florida, because of the fact that we’re really going to lose a person who’s a wealth of knowledge and is truly a jewel for Black students on this campus, a inspiration. She basically sat in and withdrew from the school, so we as Blacks could be here today and get a degree from the University of Florida. She took a stand, again to go back to where I said people daring and bold. People like that who inspire me to do things that I do today. For me the closing ceremony was awesome. I really enjoyed it and it was a true celebration of she is, but at the same time I really miss her and miss in terms of the things that she adds to the this University.

	W:	So you considered her and inspiration and a mentor? V:	Uh-huh.

	W:	Do you know feel an obligation to inspire and mentor others the same way she inspired and mentored you?

	V:	Yes, definitely. She’s just one out of several people, who when I got on this campus, and was mentored myself and then once I went into my sophomore year and definitely wanted to mentor others and pass on that information and knowledge. Mentoring is key, and that’s what helps keep the flow of information consistent. Definitely through her works, have really inspired me to mentor others and really give back.

	W:	What are your studies here at the University of Florida? What are you majoring in?

	V:	Right now I’m in the Master of Science and Management program, in the Warrington College of Business. I graduate a year early from the College of





Liberal Arts and Science, with my Bachelor Degree in Political Science and minor in Communication studies.

	W:	Has there been any single class or groups of classes during your course of studies that have inspired you, since we hammered inspirational, using inspire. Any class or professor stands out for you?

	V:		Yeah, I was in Political Science, where I read about people, like going back to what I said about reading about people and different event. I took a lot of upper division political science course. I took African American politics. I took public leisure classes, and a lot of those classes really helped to inspire me. I was reading about different females who really made in the US, to shape the US in terms of what it is today; pioneers. Reading about different cases of ethics and how when you get into power, roles of leadership, how ethics something come to question. So reading about that and really having a new outlook, in terms of really holding true to integrity. It’s a word that’s thrown around a lot but really holding true to integrity. I can’t pinpoint one class and one professor but there is several classes and professor that when I took them during my last year as an undergrad, those upper division political science class that really impact me and my outlook now.

	W:	You’ve attended the University of Florida during a period of great success, in terms of national attention brought to the University of Florida. Not just “Don’t Tase Me Bro”, but the Basketball Championships, the Football Championships. You’re kind of a celebrity on campus, yourself, because of your elevated position,





your leadership. Who are some of the other outstanding students in your generation that you associate with and just start with that.

	V:	Yeah, well I definitely have to start off with my executive board members, who I ran with on last spring, spring of 2000, Jordan Johnson and Maryam Laguna.

Definitely those are people who I ran with, we definitely just, showing true character in terms of really caring about people about people, really leading people, really caring about this university, we all saw so many different issues, some of the things we wanted to change, some of the things we wanted to improve upon. That right there is the core essence of people who I see on a daily basis and people I interact with, and people who I associate with, because not do I left them, but they left me up and we’re leaders who really hold integrity and honesty and have true character. Those are people right off the bat I would name my two running mates who ran with me last spring. Jordan Johnson and Maryam Laguna and I wish them the best as they continue on in their endeavors. Other people actually Kamari Burke Black History Month director, one of my good friends. She has done amazing things on this campus and she’s one of the people who really holds me accountable when times get tough. She’s one of those inner circle friends when times get tough that’s someone who I call and really rely on. She’s one to really encourage me and hold me accountable. So I would say Kamari Burke, Steven Liverpool, he’s currently the Florida Blue Key President and he serves in that role, and he’s known me since my freshmen year. He saw me grow up, he saw me grow up into this young man I am today and I would defiantly have to mention him. In terms of him not only leading, but





leading as a Black man I could look up to. He is also someone I definitely associate with.

	W:	Steven is the only the second ever African American to lead the Florida Blue Key, is the correct with Edward Jennings, Jr. being the first and Steven being the second.

	V:	Uh-huh.



	W:	Are you familiar with any of the paths that he chose towards leadership that lead him to that position. For a lot of people Florida Blue Key is sort of a mystery, so they say well “How did this Black guy get to be to President of the Florida Blue Key?” What is it about him that you have seen, that you think inspired that organization, which is considered UF’s highest leadership honorary, to select him as its leader, during this period of time?

	V:	Well Steven has to really [inaudible at 27:10] in his leadership and I think that’s that biggest thing. People have a lot of highs and lows. People are usually associated with one thing they did two or three years ago which was big. Which is great, but at the same time there is no innovation, there is no new ideas, no creativity. So I think Steven has definitely had those big successes but as well he stayed consistent in terms of his performance and his leadership and I think people really admire that. He had served on the executive board consistently and really faithfully and has been at every meeting. Has done his job and has done it very well. As well, I think it goes back to values, people trust him. Being President of the Florida Blue Key is an honor, as well as people have to trust you. You are elected to the position and that’s when you have to work within a





group of leaders who are high caliber themselves. And that you’re having a student leader to be in that role, you have to be honest and truthful and be able to work with others in terms of different things and decisions that are made, that he is one who listens. He is one that does not become arrogant or prideful, but is one to listen to people and really hear what they are saying and take that into account and to really make the best decision ever. I think one thing people really trust Steven and really value his opinion and his leadership and who he is. At the end of the day like my mom would say, at the end of the day all you have is your name and who you are has a person and when that is tarnish, I mean you have God, but you know what I’m saying, it’s just Steven has that name and people really look up to him.

	W:	While we’re speaking of African American student leaders, an election just took place. So soon there will be a transition of the responsibilities of service to the student body and you will move out of the Vice Presidency. Marcus Dixon was just elected as Vice President of the student body, and he is an African American young man, as well. What are your observations on Marcus and what advice can you give him, in going into this job that you’ve held?

	V:	Yeah, right now Marcus Dixon serves as kind of a chair person, so he serves directly underneath me. Marcus is one who is very hard working but very observation and he take that information very well. I would l defiantly say that he is not one that talks before he thinks, he’s very thoughtful and very mindful of people, of people’s feelings and who they are and works very well with people and a very hard worker. So I defiantly have seen his work throughout the





semester. You know I serve as vice president, anything that comes off cabinet contributes back to my name but there’s people who work underneath me who are the people that actually the minds, the brains, the workers. The people who are actually on the floor getting the stuff done, who actually make my administration successful and he is one of the intricate parts my administration and he’s done an awesome job. The advice I would just give him in terms of, you know continue to lead with integrity. Student Government is not easy. I mean Student Government is student lead. So you don’t have someone above you telling you what to do. An administrator or faulty member telling you what to do, you have other students and within the student community, and community of leaders, you really have to act with integrity and act with ethics. In terms of your decision making and terms of who you pick for leadership roles, in terms of awards you give out to people. In terms of decision you make on a daily basis and even how to budget four million dollars and how you distribute that money out. So I would definitely just say, saying true to who you are and know thy self, that the biggest thing know thy self and know who you are and do the best job possible in that role.

	W:	I’ve noticed from observing you that you constantly give praise and reinforcement to those who work with you and even those you supervise. This activity the Great Gator Debates, which took place this year, when it was all over you called all the members of the staff and everyone who worked on it, up on stage and there were pictures and a lot of comradry and congratulations and people just seemed truly





happy. We had an audience of a couple hundred people, but the people on stage they stayed there even after the audience left. How does that come about?

	V:	In terms of like—?



	W:	How do you get people to be so excited? You already indicated that student government, its students that do it. Why do you recognize the people who did that work and that form. What made you do that and how does that help people?

	V:	That’s a great question actually. I really believe in people and I know that I am not a one man show, I’m not. I’ve definitely done a lot of things and I definitely think my name holds weight. I think people respect me but I cannot do anything or pull off anything on this campus without the help of others and I recognize that and I acknowledge that. I think for me even if I did something, at the end of the day there were people who helped me, in terms of mentoring me. People who instilled things in me, that even though when I was on stage giving contribute to others, there’s too many other people behind me who give me words of wisdom, gives me words of knowledge, give me advice on different things, that allow me to be on stage to even announce those people, to even give the recognition. Life is just an intricate part of so many nets and ties together and it really strings out. So I really don’t account things for myself. If someone gives me praise, that’s great but it’s really God and it’s really people God sends in my life that really helps me to be successful and who I am today. So I’ve always been big on really contributing to the success of others and I really just think it’s in my personality. I just love praising others and seeing people grow and develop. I’m really big on that. Even when I had the idea for Great Gator Debaters and I knew I could put it





on and I knew I could take leadership and make this happen, but I didn’t want to be the director. I did not to be the one hands on. I wanted a junior, someone who had leadership experience. Who could really go through this process and for me to help lead them and help lead the committee to the point we’re at today, because at the end of the day I know it’s great I could lead it but at the end of the day I want this to live on. I want this to continue on so I need lower classmen, people to really be involved in this and see how it works and how it’s done and to continue it on.

	W:	I’ve heard you mention many times your hope for the continuation of the activity during Black History Month and your very grounded point about having an academically orientated activity during Black History Month. Could you set that up for us and explain the contrast. What is it that made it important to have this type of activity, which you would describe as academic and compare it to some of the other great activities during Black History Month? How is this an important piece to add to Black History Month?

	V:	Black people in general are very sociable. We love to have a good time. We love to hang out. We love to laugh. We love to show our culture and our beauty, which I think is great but sometime we just don’t want to show our intellectual abilities.

We don’t want to show how academically sound we are and I thinks that something that just lacks, in terms of our Black History Month, it’s not even Black History Month, it just our culture just in general and even on campus. Turn on B.E.T., see what’s on B.E.T. and what’s being shown even in terms of our Black films and what we look, in terms of as a community to watch. It’s just comedy and





it’s funny, which is great. I think it’s great to laugh. I love to laugh. I love to have a good time, but at the same time we are so heavy on the social but so low on academic stand points and I don’t really think we pay knowledge and attention to it. I think we’re starting to come up on this leadership and more people being integrated in the University and becoming involved in leadership but as well as academics, we really don’t much of that at all. We really don’t see people standing up and articulating themselves. We don’t see people doing research.

We don’t see people going and studying aboard and doing research with world renowned professors. We don’t see people wanting to get their PhDs. We don’t see these things and it’s just really unfortunate and it’s sad. I know it takes time but a lot has to do with our priorities and a lot has to deal with our campus culture and I really wanted to change that. It even has something do with, in terms of having a great event, having attendance out. I think that’s great and that’s awesome but my mission, my goal was to help change the campus culture on this campus. I know by having that event would change the campus culture.

We’re having a debate tournament. We’re having people up there articulating about different issues. We’re having people, to do something that’s usually never done in our community. I know in general that helps to change the campus culture and that’s one intricate part out of several things that I’m helping to do to change the campus culture. That when we say the University of Florida they don’t think of us a private school, but a school that breeds scholars. That’s what I want people to think when we first hear about the University of Florida and that has to stem back, in terms of the students. As well as in terms of me being





African American male, our community and things I can do within our community to help lead and progress in that matter of being a number one institution. In terms of public institutions that really breeds scholars, research, community service and things of that nature. Rather than football and game, which is all fun and great, but for me and just being on this campus and for me traveling a lot and seeing different campuses, meeting with different leaders around the country. I’ve gone to several conferences. I’ve done a lot of things and our campus culture is very different than the campus culture on other campuses and I really want to help change that and really change the direction. That is why the Great Gator Debaters is awesome but that’s why I had it as well, in terms of that.

	W:	Besides Great Gator Debaters what were some other highlights of Black History Month this year for you?

	V:	Another highlight for me. It was some good ones, the closing ceremony was definitely a highlight. Hill Harper, I really got a chance to go out to dinner with him and then hear him speak, that was a highlight for me and that was awesome. As well as the first lady, Black, African American female graduate from Harvard University came on our campus spoke, which was awesome. I really enjoyed that. I think overall those were some of the highlights me. I definitely think the fashion show was really awesome and really just showed the true beauty of African Americans. You know we don’t have to have guys with the pants sagging or females half naked, but really showing females and African American males in a good positive light, showing their fashion. So yeah those were some of the highlight for me.





	W:	Twenty-five, fifty years from now if you have a legacy, and I think that you do have one and will have one, but know you’re very humble and you might not say so. But I’m going to lay it out there so you can respond to it in the interview: what do you think your legacy can be or will be when you come back to campus twenty-five, fifty years from now? Or, what would you want it to be?

	V:	For the University of Florida, or just in terms of the world or America?



	W:	In terms of the mark that you made here, while you were here, your personal legacy.

	V:	Oh here on the campus, so far twenty-five years out what would that legacy be for this campus once I leave?

	W:	Uh-huh.



	V:	First of all, I would really like to see the things I started continue to grow, that’s number one regardless if its contributed back to me or not. I would really like those things to continue to grow and to really come back and listen in the audience and see it happen again. That is what my heart desires and that’s what I really want to see.

	W:	So the twenty fifth Great Gator Debates, you want to sit be in the audience and judge that. [Laughter]

	V:	Yeah and judge that, so that was something I’ll definitely like to see. I think for my legacy, more so I think the general legacy I look to is to leave the University of Florida better than it was when I was a freshman and I think I’ve done that. I think I’ve really helped. It goes with the University of Florida always growing but I feel like I was a part of that, in terms of helping the University continue to grow and





be a better institution. So I feel like I did my part and made my impact. I saw a need and instead of asking why is that or why has no anyone doing anything, I literally put the questions to cease and really just done something and took action to fix it. I couldn’t do everything, everything I wanted to do but for the things I could do, I try to do them well and really make an impact. So for me my legacy always when I came into make it a better institution and I think that’s something that I’ve done.

	W	Since you mentioned it, what’s one of the things you would of like to have done but have not done yet and you were thinking maybe I probably may not personally be able to do this but what would one of those things be.

	V:	There’s a lot of things. One of the things for me I really felt that the diversity of campus was very lacking and so we have something called “Gatorship,” which a diversity retreat, where we take student off campus and really challenge them and really push them. In terms of their different issues in terms of dealing with diversity, race, sexuality, economic status, different things like that and really push people and really have people to just talk. People really grew from that but when they came back on campus they went back in their circles and within their circles educating other people about diversity but your still in the same group of friends. So we have all of these pockets of people and the University of Florida campus is very diverse, which is true, in terms of numbers and people who attend this institution but no one interacts with each other. So I wanted to help change that. I wanted to create a program called Diversity Ambassadors that would go and an educate students about different topics that I talk about with





Gatorship and that’s one of the things I wanted to do and wasn’t able to see come forth. There are things and blue prints in the works. That’s something that I would like to see done. Another thing for me is I think our campus is very active but we don’t have an actually system in place for when disasters happens. When disasters happen and occur in our world. It’s really based upon students who want to be active or take initiative behind an issue. Having a system in place for when things happen, you know Haiti has earthquakes, that students know this is the pattern, this is what we could do, this is what could happen and this is how we can make a difference. A lot of it has to deal with grassroots. People don’t know what to do, who to contact. People are doing things on their own. We really need to have a system in place for our university to know when a disaster hits or something, an earthquake, a tornado, something Katrina-like, what do we do as students, what can we do. A lot of students want to take action but there is no system in place for how students should take action. So that is something I also wanted to start up but these are all things that the University of Florida I’m sure will see and it will come forth and will happen. I have definitely voiced my concerns about different things I want to see so things are in the works. I might leave the university without actually seeing them come forth but hopefully in the future they will.

	W:	One of the things that has changed since the time I was an undergraduate until now is that many more students seem to vote and participate in the local political structure and not necessarily limited just to voting itself but what do you see as





the remaining opportunities of the University of Florida working with the Gainesville community. What are those opportunities that are remaining for us?

	V:	In terms of students?



	W:	Yeah, for students to be more aware of what’s taking place in Gainesville, more people in the community being aware of what takes place on campus. Perhaps students being involved in volunteer efforts. In some ways it’s been argued that the University of Florida is an island and that people come from South Florida, they get on the 75, they come here, they go back home a lot of the times on weekends or they go wherever they are. They’re here for school but not necessarily engaged in the opportunities of participating in the greater community of Gainesville. What are those opportunities? Or do you think that’s important, should we be focused on something different?

	V:	Yeah, I mean I definitely think things have gotten better in terms of the connections between the University of Florida and Gainesville. I think the administrators has made it very clear that we as students would not just come to the University of Florida, use up their resources of Gainesville, Florida and not even contribute back to the people of Gainesville. There is people of East Gainesville that are suffering, that are hungry and we as students come from great backgrounds, some of us very privileged homes and have income and we really come to the University of Florida, stay on this island, take up the resources of the institution, the academic prestige and contribute nothing back to the Gainesville community. So that something I think that’s something the administrators should definitely voice. I’ve been at meeting and that’s something





I’ve voiced back that we as students have to really be a blessing where we’re put at. You know if I’m put in Atlanta or California, wherever I’m going to be a blessing in terms of the community I’m placed in. So I feel like for students we are doing that. There’s more community projects than there are when I was a freshmen. There is Gator Plunge that allows for students to go and impact the Gainesville community. There is Make a Difference Day. There’s Summer Plunge and there’s probably one that starts in the spring semester. A lot of times students would go out and can do service. So I think students are really catching on to really make an impact in the Gainesville, Florida community. As well as the student government, one of the things we’re trying to do is put more students on the committees that students are eligible for in the Gainesville, Florida government system and structure. I mean there’s so many committee that student can sit on; voice their concerns, and voice their opinions. So we want to see more students involved in those different areas. I know for student government we also put on a program that allow for the mayor candidates that are running, the commissioners candidates that are running, for them to come on campus and to really talk to students about the different issues and what they are trying do for students. I mean there really needs to be a united front, a bridge between the University of Florida and the Gainesville, Florida community. We should not be here four years and never really step out the walls of the University of Florida, or stepping outside Archer Road or 13th Street or University Avenue.

That is not life, that’s not what we should do. I think that’s something that’s getting with time.





	W:	Two question and then we’ll move to close but I also want to ask you about Tim Tebow because that’s like the big thing, but the first question to you is: What is the greatest challenge facing the University of Florida?

	V:	What is the greatest challenge? There’s a lot of challenges that I feel the University of Florida is facing. The greatest one, I think one of the greatest challenges the University of Florida is facing it really stems from I think administrators. I think sometimes there’s a disconnect from administrators and students, I feel. Which is really impeding, in terms of the growth of the university, I feel. I think there’s just two different agendas for students and there’s a different agenda for administrators. I feel like there needs to be a bigger bridge between them and I think with that bridge and with that connection helps us solve a lot of issues, in terms of books for students and how high books and textbooks are for students. In terms of safety on campus and how we should go about making our students more safe. In terms of night life and clubs and activities and bar and stuff like that, how do we go about allowing students to have fun but at the same time be safe in those areas. In terms of studying and libraries, some administrators are not for twenty four hours study facilities. They feel like students should sleep. Whereas students want twenty four hours facilities, a place to study and stay up all night and study. Its two different agendas and I feel like sometimes we can’t move forward because it’s two different agendas that are happening and currently we’re in the endless state of existence of the Reitz Union and the Reitz Union expansion and the renovations, and students not wanting to have to pay a fee but administrators wanted students to pay a fee for





this Reitz Union to come forth. So I think there’s so many issues but the issues that gets off are the ones that administrators and student finally see eye to eye on and then move forward on. The ones administrators and students don’t see eye to eye on, they never get done, and so I won’t say there’s one major issue. I definitely would say probably like early on the preservation of the University and academic prestige and as well as the facilities and resources for students with the recession and with the things that are going on with the economy, in terms that I thought that our administrators did a great job in really honing in to see what things could be cut knowing not to cut certain things because they really hold the weight of making sure our institution stays intact and stays number one, or stays, in terms of what we call this Gator Nation and we represent that. So I think our administrators have done a great job with that but I think there’s just certain issues that we just don’t see eye to eye on.

	W:	What is the next challenge for Larnell Vickers?



	V:	What is the next challenge? That’s a good question. What’s the next challenge?



The next challenge for me currently is to really help bridge the education inequality gap in America, to really tackle it. Once I graduate May 1st [2010], I going walk across that stage 9 a.m., May 1st, in the Stephen O’Connell Center, I want to take off the cap and gown and I’m going to get ready for my next task. That’s how I function, that’s how I work and literally I’m going to put on my helmet and my football jersey on, and I’m really going to tackle the education system and really tackle, in terms of , the education inequality. There’s students out there who are not learning, reading, writing, on the same levels and not receiving the





same resources as someone who is of high economic status and that is just unacceptable and that’s not fair. That’s something that when we say education is supposed to be the equalizer for students in America, that is allowing them to achieve the American Dream, that’s not true. If you do not have education, then what do you have? It’s something that is the foundation, it’s the base our country should be founded on and allows for people to then build that blueprint and to actually execute it but if you can’t build the blueprint, because you can read or write and you can’t execute it because you don’t have the resources, the talents and the mentors to help you, then what do you have. That’s something for me; I’m really going to go hard on, in terms of the education system. So that’s my next challenge.

	W:	You mentioned Teach for America, it’s interesting that some of our best and brightest leaders are choosing that path. Eric White, who is the first African American producer of Gator Growl, spent a few years in Teach for American in the Charlotte area. Now he’s gone to law school in Northwestern and involved in activities there. Why do you think Teach for America not only attracted Eric but has attracted you and you want to put your energies into that?

	V:	That’s a good question. One of the things is, again like I said before education has always been a big part of my life, has been always a prominent part of my parent’s life and one of the pillars of our family. My parents have always pushed us always to exceed. My dad is always like PhD, PhD. So education has always been the biggest point for me. I felt like I was in this bubble for a while and I my bubble was popped when I really went back to mentor students and saw that





students weren’t reading on the same grade levels. I did a lot of service while I was here at the University of Florida, which really impacted me to have a heart for service and have a heart for people and really want to give back. That was one thing that really influenced my decision, because just doing service a lot. Every spring break I would go out do service somewhere during my breaks, and my winter breaks and my summer breaks. The second thing is I was employed by Teach for America to work for them as a campus campaign coordinator, basically a recruiter on campus. I had no intentions of working for Teach for America, they were just seeking out high energetic people knew the campus very well and how to contribute to it, in terms of getting Teach for America known and out there. I really enjoyed their mission and I really enjoyed what they were about and I was like, “Yeah, sign me up, I’ll do it.” I did it and I just feel in love with the program. Every single time I would go out there and tells students about Teach for America, it really raised my bar and raised my level of wanting to do it myself. So once I finished it, it was my sophomore year, I think, my sophomore year.

Once I finished doing that I basically then really considered it, about doing Teach for America. As well as, law school will always be there. I want to go to law school after I finish. Law school will always be there, that’s not going to change and I always knew I wanted to teach at the of my career so now I may be able to teach at the beginning and the end of my career and have those to be the buffers and the starting points and basis of my life. In between it’ll be things that I do and initiatives take I take on. Education is big on my part, and I think that’s kind of why I wanted to go into that and do that.





	W:	People will ask years from now If I don’t ask you this next question. What do you know about Tim Tebow. Do you guys hang out? Do you get the “dap” when you go by? What kind of guy is here and how well do you know him?

	V:	That’s a good question. A question I guess everyone wants to know. The first time I met Tim Tebow, I actually sat down and had a one on one conversation, just hanging out with him, was when I actually was running for Vice President. He actually supported our campaign and our party, which is awesome. [Laughter] I was like, “Thank you so much.” He supported us and we really were in a room, a little bigger than this one and really just eating and I think he was one of the most fun-loving, very laid back, not pompous, prideful or arrogant. Really laid back, very chill, just having a good time, having good conversation, which is great. That was awesome and for me really being a believer in Christ and seeing that he is really big on that as well. Every time he goes on the football field, he wears the eye patches with the scriptures on them and even with his mom and even in terms of abortion and taking a stance on that, against abortion. The different initiatives he takes on, the different philanthropy he supports and supporting children and children with illnesses. I really think that very admirable. The guy is very talented on the football field, but he is not the same typical football player that people like to put in a box. He is very knowledgeable, very smart, intelligent, very fun loving guy. It was really good just to talk to him and relax and talk and he’s just a good person overall. I know him and it’s always good just running into him and talking to him and catching up with him, but he’s a great guy and I really





am glad he’s not ashamed for the gospel and really shares it with others and he’s a great individual.

	W:	Yeah, I like him too. He did birthday cards for both of my parents last year and I just talked to him and he remembered when he saw me I was a TA coming into a class and he spoke to me and say hey I want to get those cards for you and he filled them out. So as you said very humble, very sincere. If you want to talk about God with him, he’ll talk to you about it but he doesn’t push that on people, he’s just very open. Wow this has been such a great hour. I really enjoyed hearing your perspective on things, your reflections on leadership and you have been a great leader here at the University of Florida. On behalf of the Oral History Program, I want to thank you for participating in this interview for the oral history archives and I’ll like to close the interview by giving the opportunity to reflect on anything that’s occurred during the interview or something else; words of wisdom you want to give for the future or anything that has impressed you and the times that you finish those comments these will be the last words from me, that would conclude the interview. So again, you have our thanks and your open to close the interview.

	V:	I would just say that really it’s better to give than to receive. Honestly it’s better to give than to receive. I think just the giving, the giving to others, I’ve received more than I expected and it’s not even in terms of money. It’s just in terms of the experience, the people you get to know, the experiences and memories you share with people. I pride in that, if students listen to this right now and want to learn more about me or things I did on this campus, it’s better to give than to





receive so when you get on this campus don’t just be a student that receives a degree, but be a student that receives a degree but gives back to this University so it’s better when you leave the University. I think so many students on this campus are just receiving degrees and just receiving the accolades that come along with framing that diploma and putting it on a wall and never give back to the University, through any activities, through anything. So for me, don’t only just receive a degree but I would say give back to this University so it’s a better University for when you have children, or other students who are would probably not meet half the time would have a greater experience than you did. That what I would like to close on.

[End of interview]





	Audit-Edited by:	Sandra Romero



	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 16, 2019