AAHP 237; Dwayitan; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 237 Booker Dwayitan African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Edward Felíz on December 14, 2011 34 minutes | 20 pages



Abstract: In this interview Booker Dwayitan discusses his life growing in Gainesville. He discusses the Civil Rights movement and his personal encounters with racism in the city.



Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Civil Rights Movement]

































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 237

Interviewee: Booker Dwayitan Interviewer: Edward Feliz Date: December 14, 2011



	F:	Okay. Booker?



	D:	Booker.



	F:	Booker T. If you don’t mind just stating your full name? D:	Booker Thomas Dwayitan.

	F:	Well, it’s a pleasure to meet you. I’m Edward. And I just want to start off by asking you, where were you born?

	D:	In Gainesville, Florida.



	F:	Oh, cool. And your parents?



	D:	Father was born here, my mother was born in Georgia. F:	Okay. And what year were you born in?

	D:	Year? [19]52.



	F:	Okay, so you’re fifty-nine. D:	Right.

	F:	Perfect. And do you remember what your parents did?



	D:	Basically, my father, he worked construction, you know? And he started at creosote plant down here, and he was one of the first Black foremen at Koppers Creosote Plant. And my mother worked for University of Florida for a while, and then she was basically a housewife.

	F:	Okay. Do you remember how it was growing up in the Gainesville area for you? D:	How it was?

	F:	Yeah.





	D:	Well, you know, down in the South, it was kind of rough like everywhere. Had to go to the back door to get waited on and stuff, outdoor bathrooms for the Blacks. Basically, Blacks were doing all the cooking at the restaurants and stuff, but that’s as far as it go. Go to the bar, had to go to the back, you can’t get up way up front. Stuff like that, you know. Such as that.

	F:	And, do you remember, was school an option for you? D:	Was school an option?

	F:	An option for you? Were you able to go to school?



	D:	Yeah, yeah. No problems. Because it was an all-Black school at the time, you know.

	F:	Okay. And when did you start working?



	D:	When did I start working? I want to say, like, in the [19]60s. F:	The [19]60s, while you were, like, in your teens?

	D:	Yeah, I was in my teens, uh-huh.



	F:	And was it cause you wanted to, or you had to?



	D:	I wanted to work. I wasn’t going to school, and I couldn’t afford—I wasn’t able to go to school, so I had to work.

	F:	Okay. And what did you do?



	D:	What did I do? First job working with the city—City of Gainesville. I was young and in my teens knowing what the value of working for the city, stuff I had going for me. And I was young, no running around with women and stuff, you know. So, from job to job.

	F:	And what did you do for the city?





	D:	I took care of parks, playgrounds. F:	Playgrounds and the parks?

	D:	Yeah, parks, playgrounds, mm-hmm.



	F:	Okay. Do you remember how much you used to get paid more or less?



	D:	That’s been a while back. I don’t remember. I was getting minimum wage at the time anyway—but it was [19]69 and all that.

	F:	Okay. And amongst your friends, do you remember what were the common jobs that people did more or less? Like, your peers?

	D:	Well, like some drove bus, some drove a truck. Some were brick masons, most of them worked with University of Florida, some went into the Service, you know.

	F:	Okay. And was it, did you find it difficult to get a job? D:	Not by that time, no.

	F:	No? Jobs were plenty? D:	Plenty, plenty.

	F:	And what about college? Was college an option back then?



	D:	Not really. Not really. A person could go to school, if they want to go to school; you’re not going to be able to afford it, you know?

	F:	It was kind of expensive to go to school, to college back then?



	D:	That’s all the people went to college, you know. The expenses, you’re not going to—when people get scholarships and everything, academics and all that, people bright, and then some people just send them to school.

	F:	Right. Okay. When the whole Civil Rights Movement in the [19]60s started gaining momentum, what were the streets like? What would you and your friends





talk about when you hear Dr. Martin Luther King’s name being spoken about and stuff like that? How was that for you?

	D:	Was nice to me. I thought it was time for a change. I look at Kennedy and all of them, and all of them. Because he was—like [inaudible 4:37] and them, it just wasn’t the Black and the Whites. They had to get together some kind of way, you know? Because we in this world together anyway, you know what I’m talking about? So I’m not going to—it was a thing of getting farther, but there was no violence for me or my friends. It’s just a thing you got to live through, and that we did. We didn’t get no talk about going, jumping people, something like that, no.

Wasn’t our cup of tea. People I socialized with, they doing that. I never been in jail my whole life, I ain’t had no problems. All my friends and them retired from Service and stuff, you know? We got VA hospital, Shands Hospital. Just typical people.

	F:	And I guess, do you remember any gatherings, rallies, protest in the streets, people get together for civil rights, and marching, anything like that?

	D:	Yeah.



	F:	You remember being involved in anything like that? D:	I done been involved, some of it.

	F:	How was that experience for you?



	D:	It was a good gathering and stuff, and you would see people together. And you think about, it really wasn’t no violent thing, we was just getting together, discussing and that. How we going to get everybody together, just that violence stuff, you just keep organized, just enough together for you to keep things going.





F:  And when they said that they—when they outlawed the getting together and stuff like that, they said that Black folk couldn’t get together and stuff like that, how did that affect you guys? Did you guys obey that? Or did you still—?

	D:	I lived in a small community, and we got together, we got it, you know. And then we’d meet up in church or whatever. That thing there they couldn’t stop. So, we had a rights movement. It’d be in Chicago or something like that, there’d be thousands and thousands of people all got together. Big difference here in Gainesville, so.

	F:	And Gainesville being such a small town, how was the community tied together— that you can remember?

	D:	Well, we was all together, except what—I mean, a certain side of town, but people get together where they want to. It ain’t like everybody get together, all the Blacks and them. Blacks from this side of town get together for they—. You know, it came out pretty good. But everybody on each side of town got together, and did what they wanted to do. If we all want to meet at a certain time, we meet at that certain time, you know?

	F:	And what about church? How was church? How did the church play a relevant role in your life, or at that time—or for the folks around that you saw?

	D:	Well, the church always been a big thing about anything, really. I mean, they just pulled together. People would talk about nonviolence and stuff, keep your head together, someone might knock you on the side of the head, and that puts us in harm’s way. So, do the right thing.





	F:	And if you could think back to your childhood—I meant to ask you this earlier— when did you first realize, or come to realization that, “Hey, I’m different than this White person here”? Because you know, we’re all born in—

	D:	Right, right.



	F:	We’re all humans, we don’t see difference in each other. But—



	D:	Well, I come up from an all-Black elementary school. There was Whites in the neighborhood right behind me. Whites were some of my best friends, you know? Even when we coming up in grade school. In grade school, we had White friends, we get along fine in the neighborhood and stuff. So, they had no problem with it. ‘Til I get up a little older, you know, and it seem like some of them looking at me differently; I’m looking at them, skin tone and everything, eyes, and you could sense things, feel things. I ain’t never had no thing with them. I ain’t never been prejudiced about me; now, people, you sense it, they prejudiced against me, you know. I mean, couldn’t flatter the moon, you know? [Laughter] Got to deal with people, you got to deal with people.

	F:	All right. And, so you grew up with having White friends. And it was—and you guys were friends, and then, little by little, something changed in them?

	D:	Just this idea, that all of them not the same, you know? Or White not the same and Black not the same. So like, as I grew up, now, they moved and I moved, and I got along to something. But working them odd every day, so it wasn’t no thing to me. Still, prejudice is prejudice, you know, but I’m not going to say nothing. That don’t stop my dollar bill; I got to work, you know? Live with it.





	F:	Right. And at work, did you ever have to—did you ever feel that you were treated different because of—

	D:	Oh, quite certainly. On certain jobs, I mean, certain people—the same company, certain people you worked with, some of them be different from other ones.

Whether White or Black.



	F:	And what do you feel about—I would say… When they had to go to war, and they recruited a lot of Black men, even though they were being treated unfairly, or there was prejudice against Black men, yet they wanted the Black men to go and fight their war, quote-unquote. How did you feel about that? How did that affect the city of Gainesville?

	D:	Well, like, you know, I had a friend of mine along with my brother, he was the first one in Alachua County to get killed. His name Ronald Carter. First one in Alachua County, that was back in the [19]60s. Maybe [19]70s, I think. And anyway, there was a draft, you know; I’m not going to—. So, had no thing about it, you had to go to war. Because you going to prison if you ain’t going to serve, things like that. I never been in the Service or anything, but I’ve heard things about how they treat people, you be treated in the Service. But I went for half a job, that’s why there’s one nation though. I had brothers in Vietnam. So, I’m pretty sure it’s present within the Service thing, too, you know, but see, I’ve never been in the Service. So whatever, [inaudible 11:19] tough, I’m pretty sure.

	F:	But how did you—and how do you, how did the city react to the whole draft?



Were people eager to go? Did they not want to?





	D:	No, man, no. They send us after our Season’s Greeting. You know what I mean? You had to go for a physical. You had to go to Jacksonville to get it. Ain’t nobody want to go to war, you know? They prefer being out in the streets, and working things, getting their family and stuff. Then, lots of people volunteered. Lots of Blacks volunteered, and that’s what happens. Some people just do their thing.

Part of life.



	F:	And, what did the White folk sort of—did you feel sort of appreciated? Or do you remember friends telling you that they felt appreciated, that they want to volunteered, or did they think it was a mistake when they came back from the war?

	D:	No, I didn’t hear no one say nothing like that. But I can think about that, going and fight for your country, coming out, can’t find no jobs. Wasn’t nothing to do. And the VA, filling the VA. They only want to send them in certain places, because—and then handicapped and stuff, they got wounded and stuff, and they be concerned about they going miss their kids or something like that. But I think they just want a place to live, you know? [Inaudible 12:44], some of them got one leg, some of them got no leg, one arm and stuff, one eye and stuff. Things that in silence—there’s a persistence silence about how they got messed up in another man’ war, you know? Some shell-shocked, some mind go over and conquer like they not a part of the United States system. But shucks, they didn’t want to put them out there in harm’s way, you know? They afraid of them or something, like they some kind of clam or something. Walking cane, or one leg and crutches, and stuff. That’s messed up.





	F:	Yeah. Yeah, you’re right. And so, it was difficult for them to—I must imagine—for them to get jobs when they came back?

	D:	Yeah.



	F:	And then, you know, how did that—how did you guys feel about that? How did you feel about that, personally?

	D:	Well, it was wrong, man. Because you do three or four years in the Service, you get hurt—or don’t get hurt—come back, can’t find no work. In other words, you just kind of get put on the back burner, you know what I mean? I mean, like, you don’t know the difference any sense in that, you getting shot at and all this, you know what I’m saying? Killing somebody that you don’t know. Somebody killing you that you don’t know. It’s a setback, really. Your country done deserted you. You go over there fighting, getting down in battle look out for yourself, and you come back, and you’re like a stranger here. And you’re in a foreign country. But it your country, but the way they treat you, you know?

	F:	And moving on to the voting. When it was time to vote, how did you guys—you and your friends, I mean—think about voting? Did you guys vote? Did you personally vote?

	D:	Yeah. See, you just vote for the people of your choice. You listen to the debates and stuff, what he talking of, what he speaking of, so you vote for your choice. I can’t vote for who you want to vote for, but who I want to vote for. Something like that. Yeah, most of the [inaudible 15:05] went out and vote, you know? I can’t say who didn’t vote and who did vote, because I’m voting, myself. One mean a lot.

So, it’s up to the individual.





	F:	So, do you think it was important, people took it as very important to go voting? D:	Right.

	F:	Okay. And were people scared, or were you ever scared to go voting? D:	No. No. Scared of what? Scared to vote? No, unh-uh.

	F:	Like, nobody ever tried to keep you from voting, maybe by violence or anything like that?

	D:	Mm-mm. Mm-mm.



	F:	Okay. And the voting lots, they were close to the Black neighborhoods? Or in the Black neighborhoods?

	D:	All depend on what side of town you on. They give you—if you have to go to the other side of town and all.

	F:	Okay. And, did you ever witness, or did you ever feel threatened by a prejudiced group of any sort?

	D:	Yeah.



	F:	Yeah?



	D:	Yeah.



	F:	Do you mind telling me a little bit about that?



	D:	We used to go to the movie all the time right up town there. And we got kind of like a—it wasn’t all White, and one time only it’s only all-Black. And we got together, and we come out leaving the place, “No Negroes!” They come flying by in cars throwing eggs, raw eggs, and all kinds of stuff. And, “Hey, nigger” this, and “nigger” that. I guess that was everywhere, you know? But you know, down here in the South, so we expected that from them.





	F:	Did that happen often?



	D:	Yeah. It happened regularly.



	F:	Pretty regular here? And that, like, those parties, and the movies, and stuff like that, was that in your neighborhood, Black neighborhood, or you had to go—?

	D:	No, that right up there, man. On University Avenue right there. F:	And—

	D:	But when we going home, we walking, you know? So, we coming down roads and stuff, and they just pop up, going—you know.

	F:	Let me just check some more questions, here. When the Civil Rights Movement was taking effect, and taking momentum, you know, there was a lot of talk on the street, stuff like that; what did your folks think about it? Your grandparents, or your parents.

	D:	I ain’t seen no grandparents, it ain’t like that with my dad when I was coming up. But pretty much, the old folks didn’t have much to say about nothing too talk. You know, they could be observing and stuff, but they couldn’t get out there and march, anything like that. But now, here, most of the Black people, young people, we was in the Movement, too, you know. But wasn’t no violence or nothing; but we was standing and everything, yeah. It was a time of change, you know? So, I mean, we went along with it. The old folks did, too, but they didn’t do marching or nothing. We marching every year for Martin Luther King uptown, all the way to Citizen Field, every year.





	F:	Wow. And, when things started happening—well, with the University of Florida being here, such a long time, what type of vibe did you get from the students, or people that came to the University of Florida during those times?

	D:	I didn’t have no problems, because basically, get a lots of work there on campus.



You know, bala roofing was lockdown on that, knew a lots of people, lot of people knew me. I got to know lots of students, too, because most of my friends work at Shands or VA hospital. Like, I know doctors, White doctors now in Gainesville right now today. So I didn’t have no problems about it. Never had no problems with anybody; they stay on campus, you know?

	F:	And, did you feel that students were kind of with you guys, wanted change as well?

	D:	Lots of them wanted it. Lots of them were. Marched right along with us, whatever, you know? We have a gathering, there be just as many White as be Black. And people, they feel like foot step on somebody, so they right there along with us.

And would talk and speak with us, then get up and stand up for Black [inaudible 19:30]. So, yeah. We had the physicals out here on campus or wherever, you know? I mean, they mixed in people, people voicing their opinion and everything. Freedom of speech, you know?

	F:	So, you felt like it was not just Black folks, it was White and Black? And you would say they were mostly young?

	D:	Yeah, like—especially, like, these days and stuff, down by law. Lots of them talking and everything, but they trying to noun hippies, but like, they wouldn’t mess with nobody no more than we would mess with nobody. This—they just felt





they—hey, they’s part of society! And that caused the mix of peoples. That’s right. You know what I’m talking about?

	F:	Yeah. I like that.



	D:	Take four quarters to make a whole. Three thirds to make a whole. So, we all got to get together to make a whole. You understand what I’m talking about?

Comprende and that.



	F:	Yeah, yeah. I like that. I like that. Well, how far—since you’ve seen it change— how much change have you seen that’s taken place since the [19]60s until now? You personally, here.

	D:	Hell of a change. You look at most of the couples, now; I mean, back in the day, you would get hung if you even was looking at a White woman. Nowadays, you got Blacks and Whites getting married, Julen Gere getting married, so, like, ain’t no problem. I mean, maybe they parents may dislike it, but they can’t stop what’s going on. So, yeah. I got half—I got mixed blood in my family. My sister, my brother married a German woman. My nephew got kids from a White woman. So, it can always go both ways, you know? Indian, White, Black; my blood is part of you now, anyone blood, whatever. What I’m trying to say. But you just can’t change what’s happening, you know? Know what I’m talking about? You can’t change what’s happening.

	F:	And, how do you feel about the Mexicans, and the Latinos, that are now going through a civil rights—even here, you got the farmers, stuff like that. What do you, just, think, you know, about their—their being prejudice, having to have prejudice against them, stuff like that?





	D:	I guess the Whites, they have a prejudice against the Mexicans or whatever. But they come here now, I never seen one with a sign that says “We need to work,” you know? They get they work like anybody else. Might of work now because, company I have worked for now, completely run. How they get here? Well, you got them in here, whether you believe it or not. I mean, you look at some of these stores, they arrested last week—this week? Last week? Yeah. Food stamp fraud and stuff. You’d think buying food, they want to test people to get food stamps.

Young girls getting the stamps for money, to get [inaudible 22:54]. I don’t know, that’s the way I see it. But anyway, what goes up, it’ll come down, you know?

Goes around is going come around. So. Prejudice against this, prejudice against that, the whole society pretty much think prejudice, you know? The ones that running the place, they messed up in the head. They want the whole cake, and don’t want some of us getting a slice. So, they just want to keep us down where we do that. That’s the way I look at it, so I think the whole world is prejudiced in a certain standing.

	F:	And speaking about the president, how did you feel when our current president got into office, got elected president?

	D:	That was fine with me, because like I said, when change happen, change—like, really now, I don’t think anybody want to be in his position. That’s too much to get—people lot of shit, it already it started. So he get put in. So, I don’t really think I want to get him to try that too tough. But get his mind made up about how he going do things, and I don’t think anybody want to go down and try to go down behind him. That’s like me going behind somebody else on they job. They mess





up, so I don’t think I’d want to get in his shoes right about now, I don’t think. They might pretend they want to, but they—because there’s lots of work to be done, man.

	F:	And, when Barack Obama became president, he’s the first Black president, how did that make the Black community feel—from your extent? From your point of view?

	D:	It’s uplift, man; I mean, it’s uplift. There was history made, you know? First Black man ever been there, you know what I’m saying to you? Besides [inaudible 24:48] and stuff, because it isn’t, he’s the president. Yeah.

	F:	Yeah. Okay. And, you mentioned earlier that you have brothers and sisters. How many brothers and sisters do you have?

	D:	I have five brothers and two sisters. F:	So, you were eight of you, together? D:	Yeah.

	F:	How was that growing up? How was that, growing up with eight brothers and sisters?

	D:	Well, my father wasn’t right there together at the time, because my mom was married twice. So, we had—one girl and four boys, my daddy had one girl and four boys. See, my family raised me from [19]57 up to [19]70-something, so like, a lot of them was gone. So when my momma met my daddy, [inaudible 25:36] half-brothers and sisters. With the others, it was all right. Because I was grown before I got a chance to meet some of my brothers, you know?

	F:	Okay. And did you guys have any family get-togethers? Would you—





	D:	Yeah.



	F:	You would maybe hear some of their stories, stuff like that, just talk? You know.



How were those events?



	D:	You know, I mean, turned out how things was back in the day. What you had to do. Where they were going, I can remember a time we’d get together. Go out in the woods, cut down trees, now, because we burning on the heaters. Outdoors bathrooms and stuff. People down in South, not everybody like that now. But in Gainesville, some people had indoors bathrooms. One in the wall, and everything [inaudible 26:34] like that. Back in the days was second base.

	F:	And how did you—how did they feel, more or less, when you guys spoke about the change that was coming? The Movement that was—

	D:	How did we feel?



	F:	How your brothers and sisters, and family members, and stuff like that. D:	Oh, they didn’t have no problem with it.

	F:	Yeah? Okay. And do you feel—the Movement in Gainesville, the Civil Rights Movement, do you feel that it got here a little bit—how can I say? Not as strong as it was going on in Atlanta, and Tallahassee? Or do you feel that it was—

	D:	About the same, about the same. F:	About the same.

	D:	I would feel.



	F:	Yeah? And during those marches, were there ever any—that you remember— any Black folks that were against the change? Maybe older people that were





against the whole Movement, or that were scared, maybe, from punishment or anything like that?

	D:	No, I mean, I guess there were some of them scared of a little violence. People rioting and throwing bricks at they house and stuff like that, and old folks and that, pretty sure they was afraid of that. Because they didn’t want to have anything to do with—seemed like because they old and stuff, and scared of the change. And then what they went through when they was coming up, the way they would treat Black people. So, some of them were a little jittery of it. But had to get over that, you know?

	F:	Right. You guys had to keep on going, huh? D:	Right.

	F:	Okay. And, do you recall maybe—maybe you, your family, friends’ family, neighbors being treated differently by other Black folks because of their relationships with another—maybe like a White family, or anything like that?

	D:	No. Not in my family, but I’ve known people that had problems with people. Some people didn’t like—I guess that basically for anybody that got they own mind. If you run with a White person, oh, “You cracker” all this or that or something like that, and White one, “Oh, you nigger-lover.” I mean, that goes back and forth.

	F:	I see. Okay. And, how do you feel—how do you feel that the Civil Rights Movement, what did it do for you personally? You know? What type—you know, seeing these great leaders, Dr. Martin Luther King, and Malcolm X, and seeing them wanting to bring about change, and you’ve seen the change happen, how did that make you feel?





	D:	It feel good, man. Now they was going to open yourself open and not really be afraid to make a movement about something. Because you normally couldn’t—or wouldn’t, you know? It’s just more—not your opinion, now, it’s the world saying the Blacks, and everybody can make a move. Now you got to sit back like that— one time, you had to sit on the back of the bus. My mom say, “No, come on, BT, you can’t sit there!” I was hot. They had a fan in the bus, I’m sitting right by the bus driver. And everybody looking at me, Whites and Blacks. They scared. I wasn’t scared; I was hot! I stayed right down there [inaudible 30:34] back at me. And that was back in the [19]60s. Mm! “Man, I’m hot!” I was about nine years old. I sit down behind the bus driver. And everybody was scared. White folks in there looking at me like I’m shit I say, “I ain’t going nowhere.” My mom get worried about me, “Come on back here, B.T.! Come on back here!” “I ain’t going nowhere.” And like they opened lots of doors. Because I was younger then, with Malcolm and all them, like yeah. Everything, man. Freedom of speech, they had to shake. I mean, we couldn’t even go to school. Opened lots of doors. Like, I know out in Kent State, they killed them kids, when the first Blacks going to go there they going shoot them kids up like that. Killed like four dead in Ohio?

	F:	Where was that at?



	D:	In Ohio. Kent State in Ohio. They made the song, “Four dead in Ohio.” Killed them kids; first one going to school, now. Kent State. You got to write that down.

	F:	When was that? Did that happen recently? D:	No, that back before integration, man.





	F:	Oh, really? Oh, you mind telling me a little bit about it? You remember, just whatever you remember?

	D:	Kent State, there were four students, they killed one on the footsteps going into the school, man. I don’t know if—

	F:	And how did you guys get news about that here?



	D:	It was on news, man! On the news. Nationwide, man.



	F:	Nationwide. And how did the people react down here in Gainesville? D:	Like anybody would act: they react.

	F:	Do you feel that maybe there was a—



	D:	They didn’t want no Blacks to go to the school! Simple as that.



	F:	So then, the people that were going to school here, were they scared? D:	What, here?

	F:	Yeah.



	D:	I don’t know. No, no, no, no.



	F:	And that bus incident, where you were on the bus, you guys got on the bus, and what happened?

	D:	What happened? [Laughter] I hit the first seat I could. Man, right behind the— driver had a fan going in front of him, and that’s where I stopped it, right there. Momma want me to go back in the back. “Come on, B.T., come on!” “Unh-uh, I’m staying right here where I’m at!” And I did.

	F:	And the bus driver didn’t say anything?



	D:	He couldn’t. He was looking at me from the mirror, but he driving. He ain’t going to stop there in the middle of the road and get ran over like, “Niggers be in the





back seat.” Like, unh-uh. He had to take it on to where we get off. When you pull the string, get off the bus. I looked at him, he looked at me. Simple as that. [Laughter]

	F:	Okay. Well, I guess that’s it, B.T., Booker T. D:	BT, you can call me “BT.”

	F:	B.T., I appreciate your time. D:	Yeah.

	F:	Thank you very much.



	D:	Helped you out a little bit, didn’t it? F:	Thank you.

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Ryan Morini, March 8, 2018 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero

	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 21, 2019