AAHP 529;; Green;; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 529 Vincent Green

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Ebony Love on October 7, 2017 8 minutes | 6 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Vincent Green talks about his time spent attending the University of Florida. He speaks about the military’s educational plan for him and how he pursued his own degree in business instead of engineering. He goes into detail about the community work he was a part of as well as the lack of discomfort regarding racial tensions on campus. He also talks about meeting his wife of thirty-three years at the university.



Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Black Alumni; Gainesville; University of Florida]





















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 523

Interviewee: Vincent Green Interviewer: Ebony Love Date: October 7, 2017



	L:	My name is Ebony Love, and I am at the Association of Black Alumni Weekend.



It is Saturday, October 7, 2017. And I am here with Mr….



	G:	Vincent Green.



	L:	Mr. Vincent Green, what years did you attend the University of Florida? G:	From 1980 to 1984.

	L:	When you attended the University of Florida, was it 1980 to 1984? G:	Right.

	L:	Where were you born and what year were you born? G:	I was born in Panama City, Florida, in 1962.

	L:	And did you graduate school in Panama City? G:	Yes, mostly high school.

	L:	Where did you parents attend college, or did they attend college?



	G:	My mother attended Alabama State University for her undergrad in Education and got her Master’s from Florida A & M in Education.

	L:	And your father, do you know…. G:	My father never went to college.

	L:	Okay. So, what made you choose the University of Florida?



	G:	I didn’t choose the University of Florida, the Navy chose it for me. I wanted to go to Florida A & M and be a pharmacist and the Navy ROTC said I needed to come to the University of Florida and be an engineer.

	L:	So you got your degree in Engineering? G:	No. [Laughter]





	L:	What did you get your degree in? G:	I got my degree in Business.

	L:	So, when you entered in to the University of Florida were you on the Engineering track?

	G:	Yes, for three years.



	L:	And then what changed?



	G:	I was always taking Business courses ‘cause I did not want to be an engineer.



And so, my senior year I just went to the commander and said “I don’t want to be an engineer, and I’m on track to graduate in business” and so I finished in business.

	L:	What was the atmosphere like when you first entered the University of Florida? G:	It was a great atmosphere because when I came in, one of my, actually my high-­

school principal, his son was already had been here a year and I was his roommate in Broward Hall and then Broward Hall was predominately Black as far as residents, and then the children who came to school, I recall, on the plan, the program, sorry, not the plan, it was called the program. Their activities and stuff were handled in the basement of Broward Hall. So Broward Hall was always the place for Black students to hang out or be in or whatever the case may be. Had a lot of parties at Broward Hall.

	L:	How was your experience [different] or was it different being that you were also in the military?

	G:	No. You know, ROTC was just one class and a drill day, so it really didn’t impact me. It was just a free way to come to college.





	L:	What organizations were you a part of when you were here?



	G:	When I was here I was in the Black Student Union and I was in Navy ROTC and Phi Beta Sigma fraternity.

	L:	If you could pick one of those organizations, which ones did you do the most programming with?

	G:	Phi Beta Sigma fraternity.



	L:	And what kind of programs did you do?



	G:	A lot of community service. A lot of community service and a lot of parties.



	L:	And when you were doing the community service was it on campus or was it for…?

	G:	It was on campus and off campus.



	L:	And what did you do out in the community?



	G:	Mostly worked with the schoolchildren and then we did some public service stuff out in the regular community. Just a lot of stuff.

	L:	What was the atmosphere like in your classes?



	G:	In the classes? Just goin’ to class. School probably was not as intense, there was not that sense of competition. You just went to school, did your schoolwork, passed your class and moved on to the next level. Where now it seems like everyone is trying to overachieve rather than just get a degree. So, I never really thought about were the classes hard or whatever, I just knew I really didn’t want to be an engineer, so I didn’t apply myself in those classes.

	L:	Was there any specific event that made you feel uncomfortable here?





	G:	Actually no, not one time did I feel any type of blatant racism, and not one time did I feel any fear for my life. You know, because I was Black. Pretty much any bad experiences I had probably was the same experiences anyone would have, somebody drinking too much and get in too much liquid courage and challenging you, and I’m not to be challenged, so typically, that didn’t go well.

	L:	If you could find one building on campus that you would say you identified with, what would it be?

	G:	I would say Beaty Towers, because after my freshman year I stayed in Broward, and Beaty Towers my sophomore year and I guess that’s when I really got very mature about this life, so I think Beaty Towers was it.

	L:	When you were at Beaty Towers, I know a lot of people, others say that Little Hall was “the set” at the time. Was it still that way for you?

	G:	So Little Hall was like the stepping set. Because the bigger classes were over there but the set, to just hang out, was the GPA set, or Turlington Hall it’s called today, but yeah, that was the set to just hang out, that’s where people would flunk out from.

	L:	Was there any experiences or accomplishments that you had at UF that you would like to highlight?

	G:	No, not really, I mean I really just came here to go to school and get a degree and progress in life and be successful. Again, like I said, I came with the sense of, that the degree is my ticket, you know, my personality is what’s gonna take me. So I didn’t really worry about, you know, am I going to grad school or law





school, I just knew I needed to get in to the public world and I would be successful just based on my personality. But I needed a degree.

	L:	Is there anything that I did not ask you about that you wish you could highlight on?

	G:	Probably the best thing that happened to me here at college is I met my wife, and we got married October 21, 1984, and I graduated August of [19]84. And we’ve been together thirty-­three years, ever since then.

	L:	Congratulations.



	G:	Now my son is…he always wanted to be a Gator, always, always been comin’ to games and now he’s the Senate President and hopefully in the spring he’ll be the Student Body President.

	L:	And his name is?



	G:	Ian Green. And my oldest daughter graduated from here. L:	What is her name?

	G:	Alicia Green, she graduated in 2001.



	L:	Thank you for your time and if you have any questions or if you want to tell us something that you didn’t get to say you can always just read that card that I gave you and we’ll be able to update it.

	G:	Sounds great.



	L:	Thank you for your time. G:	Thank you Ms. Love





[End of interview]











Transcribed by:

Marcus Chatfield,

June 10, 2019

Audit-­Edited by:

Sandra Romero

June 18. 2019

Final-­Edited by:

Sandra Romero

May 13, 2020