AAHP 679; Veasley; Page

10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 679 John Veasley

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Paul Ortiz on July 6, 2019 66 minutes | 21 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Dr. John Veasley recalls his time growing up in the small town of Kosciusko, Mississippi as a Black boy attending segregated and later, integrated, schools. He notes that in integrated schools, he was not given adequate instruction or encouraged in the same way his Black teachers had taught him in segregation. He has retraced his family history and shares about his great grandparents working under Freedman Bureau labor contracts and sharecropping, and how this led to being raised around farming. He fondly reminisces on his time at Tougaloo College in Jackson, Mississippi and getting involved after being inspired by Freedom Fighters. He notes the difficulty he faced as a Black man applying to dental schools following college graduation, noting that many programs had a quota for Blacks, and that the number was very low. He attended dental school at Howard University, and recounts later joining the Coast Guard because of a US Public Health Service loan. He shares his experiences about being a Black dentist in the Coast Guard in New York, and how it was difficult to move higher up the ladder in rank due to racial discrimination. He transferred to a federal prison in Pensacola, Florida and notes the differences between the climate towards Black people from Mississippi, and the northeast.



Keywords: [African American Studies, Pensacola, Tougaloo College, Mississippi, NAACP, integration, Kosciusko, dentistry, Coast Guard, segregation, Civil Rights Movement, Florida history]



AAHP 679

Interviewee: John Veasley Interviewer: Paul Ortiz Date: July 6, 2019



	O:	We’re here this morning at the Chappie James Museum in Pensacola, Florida with Dr. John Veasley. My name is Paul Ortiz with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program of the University of Florida. It is July 6th, Saturday. First of all, Dr. Veasley, thank you so much for taking time out of your busy schedule to agree to be interviewed.

	V:	Sure. You’re welcome.



	O:	Could you start by telling us a bit about where you grew up, what life was like in the community back in the day when you were growing up.

	V:	I grew up in a small town called Kosciusko, Mississippi. It’s an hour north of Jackson. Population about 7,500. The town was about twenty percent Black, and eighty percent White. Basically, a poor farming area. My family lived below the poverty level for all of that time.

	O:	What was the community like? What were the most important institutions in the community that you remember?

	V:	Central Mississippi Community College was there. It was for Blacks. There was mostly churches. I attended Buffalo United Methodist church. It’s the same church my mother attended as a child. My father, both grandfathers, a grandmother, a couple of great grandfathers, and great grandmothers buried in same cemetery there at Buffalo Church.

	O:	Wow. That’s a lot of family history. Did your elders talk about the family history when you were growing up that you remember? The generations before you?





	V:	They didn’t do much talking, but I had been doing family tree research for about twenty-five years, so I know a little more than most of my siblings and relatives.

	O:	Dr. Veasley, tell me about that. Tell me about your family. V:	I can go back to slavery time, if I can get there.

	O:	Yes! Yes, sir.



	V:	My father was born in 1930. He and his identical twin brother were the children of my grandfather’s second wife. The first wife had died, leaving him with about five children and he married again and had three more children with the second wife, who died when my father was less than three years old. He got a stepmother who raised him. My grandfather was also fifty years old when my father was born. He was born in 1879, and his father was seventeen years old at the time of the emancipation. After the emancipation, they did Freedman Bureau labor contracts and sharecropping. Sharecropping continued in the family. My father even did some sharecropping. To this day, I know how to plow with a mule, horse. I did not pick cotton. I would raise corn, beans. Our little family garden was about an acre, a lot more than I wanted to deal with.

	O:	That’s a big garden.



V:  The Labor Day holiday was always one that kids hated because you had to wear long-sleeved shirts and you had to pull corn. The leaves of the corn stalk will cut you like a razor, so you had to wear long-sleeved shirts in September.

September is usually very, very warm in Mississippi. My mother’s side, I’ve traced her family back. My mother’s mother’s mother’s mother’s line through African ancestry says that my maternal line is from Guinea-Bissau, a small





country in the western part of Africa. Population of about two million, divided into six states, right there on an island, most of the little chains of islands. I did not know much about it until I did the DNA. I am currently part of a Facebook group of DNA tested Guinea-Bissau descendants and going there is on my bucket list. I’ve found in my genealogy that my three times great grandmother was a slave in Mississippi and the owner died at about 1862. Luckily, he left a will. His will said that my three times great grandmother had the option of whichever descendants she wanted to go live with and there were two others in that household that she could take with her. It helped finding that will because on the census it shows a couple people in her household in the 1870 census who don’t share her same last name. I didn’t know exactly who they were but I’m assuming they were her children or maybe from a previous slaveowner. I’m not sure about that. My mother completed the eleventh grade in high school. When she did, she had to move or live with another family who lived in the city closer to where the high school was because most of the high schools stopped at about eighth grade. She attended a Cook-Rosenwald school at the Buffalo Church. School during the week, church on Sunday. She attended that school…

	O:	What town was that in?



	V:	Still in Kosciusko. There were lots of Rosenwald schools associated with Black churches. My father went to one. I have more relatives that went to those and are buried in the cemeteries associated with that church.

	O:	When you were in school, as you started, what were your favorite subjects? Do you remember teachers who had big impacts on you?





	V:	Sure. I went to Northside Elementary School for first grade and I remember Mrs. Roberta Walker was my teacher. I can still smell her perfume. I know what it is. I don’t know what the name of it is, but I know exactly what it is. As most kids, you think your first-grade teacher is the most beautiful woman in the world so of course, I fell in love with her like everybody else. At that time, there was no kindergarten, head-start, or any of those programs. You start first grade and that’s where you were taught to read and write. My two older sisters said they tried to teach me at home, but I was a stubborn kid, and I didn’t want to learn from them. The school was segregated and that was elementary school on the northern side of town. It took me a while to realize that the Black school, Northside, was on the north side of town. There were other schools, Eastside and Westside, and those were White schools. On the south side of town was Tipton Street High School. That was for Blacks. They had an elementary school and a high school, and that high school was the only one for Blacks at the time. I did seventh grade there then there was integration by the time I started eighth grade.

	O:	What year was that around?



	V:	[19]69. It was a little contemptuous there because Whites didn’t know how to associate with Blacks. For extra curriculars, the only thing they really integrated was sports, mainly football. Like almost all schools in the South, the quarterback was always White, and Blacks played other positions. The quarterback spot was almost always reserved for Whites. When schools integrated in Mississippi, the Black high school was almost always made the junior high and the White schools





almost always made the senior high school. When I was in school, I excelled in math and my teachers did not do any encouragement to help my skills or challenge me. In the ninth grade, I got put in this general math class that bored me to death.

	O:	This is in the integrated school now? V:	This is the integrated school.

	O:	What was the difference between the teachers that you worked with before integration and the teachers after, now, that you’re in an integrated school?

	V:	The biggest difference was discipline. You were supposed to be able to get that voice command and that would be it. When the schools integrated, it seemed like the teachers were afraid to challenge us students or chastise, if you will. Anytime that they really punished anybody, boys you were offered three licks for three days or three-day suspension. Minor infractions, talking in the study hall. I do regret I was offered three licks for three days and I took the three licks because my parents would not have bene pleased with me coming home for three days for anything like that. My senior year, I had decided that my thing would be to go to Mississippi State University and major in math education, but they required the two higher level math classes that normally I wouldn’t have been able to take, unless I started with the algebra in ninth grade, but nobody put me there. I read the student handbook and it said neither was a prerequisite for the other, so I requested to take both those classes my senior year. The counselors told me no. I told them, “Show me why I can’t.” They couldn’t but they said, “We’ll have you go to each of the teachers that teach those two classes. If they approve, we’ll let





you take them.” The teacher teaching the Algebra II class was the same teacher who taught my Algebra I class. I had excelled and her room was next door to the advanced math trig teacher’s classroom, so she just walked over to her and told her. She strongly recommends that you go ahead and sign it, and I took both those classes. In that system, I was actually the first Black student to take the advanced math class at that school. I did graduate from there. I was not an honor graduate because I didn’t know what it was, and nobody had pushed it.

	O:	So, Dr. Veasley – if you don’t mind me interrupting -- it sounds like often people are taught that integration in schools has so much equality and it’s so great, but it seems like a lot of things were dropped or missed when integration happened.

	V:	Things were dropped because they were afraid. They didn’t know how to interact.



My senior year there was a choir. I was in that choir and that was the first thing that was not sports that they allowed integration. They asked me to be on the newspaper staff in high school my junior and senior year, but there were only two Blacks on the newspaper staff. About ten percent versus the twenty-five percent that we were of the population. In the high school, there were nine cheerleaders. Two Blacks. It was basically designated, “You’ll have two Black cheerleaders.

Period.” It continued that way for years. After I graduated from high school, I was doing my first year of college and I was home for summer break. My siblings were in the high school now, and they asked me about it. I went and asked the superintendent about it. He told me, “You need to leave that alone.” I was in college, so I didn’t have time to come there and fight that. Enough parents didn’t have the time, money, or didn’t really know how to fight it.





	O:	Just to recap, you had “integration” but in sports, the quarterbacks would always be Whites. It sounds like there were these agreements that were made from on high where African Americans would still be in subordinate positions.

	V:	At the senior high and junior high, the guys who would’ve been principals in the Black schools were the assistant principals at the integrated schools. Something that they didn’t tell people, but you would see it on the diplomas, the White guy that was the principal of the high school was listed on the diploma as the assistant superintendent of schools. The Black guy would be listed as the principal on the diplomas.

	O:	Were there job losses that happened for Black teachers when the schools integrated?

	V:	Yes. There were some sudden job losses for teachers. One husband and wife team actually left there and went and started a private school themselves and it’s lasted for years. They did it in the next county, not in the same county. When the schools integrated, there were a lot of people who did not want to have their children attend the same schools as Blacks so they would go to the private schools. There was not a private school in that county at the time, so they would actually go to the next county to go to school daily.

	O:	Just to avoid being in school with Black children? V:	Yes.

	O:	Dr. Veasley, could you tell me about your college experiences like where you went to school, who your influential mentors were?





	V:	College! I went to Tougaloo College in Jackson, Mississippi. T-O-U-G-A-L-O-O. It’s an Indian word meaning “between two rivers.” It is in Jackson. I won’t get into the geography of it, but we’ll say it’s in Jackson. It is a small, private UNCF school with anywhere from about six hundred to nine hundred students for the student body. I was in a pre-health summer program at Tougaloo after my senior year and I was still planning on going to Mississippi State, but I liked the educational opportunities. That summer was an educational opportunity, and they were gonna pay me to study. I went there, fell in love with the campus and the other students who would be coming back to college there, so I changed my mind and went to college there. They had given me a scholarship for my ACT score and the basic education opportunity grant at the time. Those two would cover my tuition, room and board fees. At the summer program, they said, “Let us switch the money around. Switch your scholarship to a pre-health scholarship that’s from government funding.” Then they can use my academic scholarship for another student. I said, “Sure. Fine. As long as my money doesn’t change, that’s okay.” I was still determined to be a math person, so before my first day of college I talked with Dr. Richard McGinnis who was the pre-health program advisor and chemistry teacher and we wrote my schedule out so that I could do a bachelor’s in math, the pre-health requirements, and include the time for the practicum for the teaching certificate. By the time I finished freshman year, I realized that you didn’t need the education and practicum part to teach college, so I changed my schedule and studied math and chemistry. I did the UNCF pre- med summer institute the summer after freshman year, did research at Yale the





summer at U after my sophomore year, and worked at Bell Labs doing chemical research after my junior and senior years. At Tougaloo, Dr. McGinnis was the person telling me, “You really need to do better. You can do better. Spend more time on academics and less time on social.” The person that challenged me most was Mr. Blake Hill, he was chairman of the math department. I did end up having one class where I actually went to his office one day a week. We had an abbreviated lecture for about twenty minutes and that was my class.

	O:	One-on-one with him?



	V:	One-on-one with him. My senior year, advanced calculus was my last class with him. He proved that he earned his master’s there [Laughter]. Tougaloo is known as a cradle of Civil Rights in Mississippi when the [19]60s and [19]70s. When the Freedom Riders came to Mississippi in the early [19]60s, 1960 or so, some of those people were locked up and put in Parchman State Penitentiary and held there for about two or three months. Some of those students were students at Jackson State University and were not invited back. There was a student, Joan Tumpauer, who had been at Duke and because she had gotten involved in civil rights stuff, she was uninvited back for her sophomore year. She, a White female from Tennessee, went to Tougaloo and pledged a sorority, one of the first Whites in the sorority. She’s still a Freedom Fighter. Her son is a Freedom Fighter. He writes documentaries about the civil rights struggle. At Touglaloo, it is famous for having lots of civil rights speakers come there while I was there. Dr. Benjamin Mays came, and I had the distinct opportunity to be his escort that morning before he spoke at the convocation. He and I sat and talked, and it was like





talking to my grandfather. A wonderful person. My advanced calculus teacher did not appreciate me skipping his class to escort this man, but it was great. I pledged a fraternity while I was in college, Omega Psi Phi. I was in the pre-health club and student government. I was the Judiciary Council Chair my senior year. Gospel choir my freshman year. I applied to dental school, not because I wanted to be a dentist so badly, but I was not ready to go to work and I’m one of those people, I would’ve been a professional student as long as I found someone to pay for it. Luckily, I applied to dental school and got accepted to Howard University and the US Public Health Service gave a scholarship that I qualified for. I was not accepted to dental school at the University of Mississippi School of Dentistry. That school, at the time, I think accepted thirty-eight students a year and their quota was two Blacks. By the time they got to me on the list, they had reached their quota. A couple of friends who did not go there that were accepted went to the University of Pittsburgh and the other went to Harvard for dental school. You can set your bar that high but given those options, the University of Mississippi is not going to win against Harvard. Because in Mississippi there’s a higher education assistance given to anybody who is not accepted to that health professional school in Mississippi, but you get accepted somewhere else, as long as it’s six thousand dollars a year. As long as you get accepted somewhere else, you just put in the paperwork, and it’s guaranteed. I did have that loan because the Public Health Service didn’t make their selection until the middle of October and school started in August. I showed up and there was a check there with my name on it and the school’s name. I got it and paid most of it back to the State of





Mississippi and they said, “You gotta pay us the rest back.” I didn’t pay it back until after I finished dental school. It was only a couple thousand but enough that they had one of the state attorneys make it front page news. Lots of people had gotten it and hadn’t paid it back immediately. I did pay it back. While I was in dental school, I messed up a couple of classes my first year. That put me a little behind in the dental school offer of “I’ll tell you what, we’ll split up the second year. You can take part of it now and part of it then.” I said I can’t afford to do that; I will take a year off then I’ll come back and just do the second year completely. They said, “Okay, fine” and somebody forgot to send a message to the Public Health Service saying, “Hey! He’s on leave right now.” I got a threatening letter from the Public Health Service saying, “You’re not in school.

You’re defaulting on this loan, so we need you pay threefold over this two-year period, what we paid out for you already.” Very nerve-wracking and scary but I got the school to do the paperwork and then it was okay. I came back and I was the President of the Dental Student Council my senior year. I had a few run-ins with the dean because I was still a kid and didn’t understand what was really going on and how they were trying to help us, so we had a few conflicts. Over time, I’ve come to understand those, and I’ve even apologized for my behavior.

	O:	Dr. Veasley, so when did the Coast Guard come in?



	V:	The Public Health Service scholarship was you paid back the same number of years that they paid for when you go to school, so they paid for four years. With those four years, before them, I asked for a year break so that I could go a general practice residency and I did do that at the University of Mississippi





School of Dentistry. A year before I went, they had just expanded the program from two to six people. The two people had always been White males, they had just graduated from that school. When they expanded to six, they included one Black male. The year I went, I was the one Black male and one of the others had been from the school there and they accepted people from other dental schools around the country. After my year of the general practice residency, I worked two years at a community health center in New Hebron, Mississippi as their dentist. Then I worked two years at a migrant health center in south Texas, in Crystal City, Texas. Crystal City is forty miles from the Mexican border at Eagle Pass, around eighty miles north of Laredo. I did not speak Spanish. I had two bilingual dental assistants and I learned very little while I was there. Those four years made up my scholarship payback time. At the end of that time, I planned to go back to Mississippi to set up a private practice. The town that I had selected, I had gone to the previous August and looked around and talked to people.

Suddenly had eight new dentists to come by the time that I was going back to talk to bankers and set up a practice. I got an offer from the Public Health Service that says if you will accept a commission, we’ll count those four years you just did for payback for pay, promotion, and retirement. I said okay. They asked which agencies I would like, and I told them Coast Guard. They offered me Kodiak, Alaska; Cape May, New Jersey; New London, Connecticut; and Support Center, New York. I chose Support Center, New York because I didn’t want to be cold in Alaska. Cape May, New Jersey was the intake center for new recruits, so I felt like I’d be in an assembly line there. Coast Guard Academy was in New London,





Connecticut, and that was further up than New York and more cold, and the town wasn’t that big. After going to dental school in D.C. and living in those other places in the summers I had grown accustomed to metropolitan areas and I like it. The Support Center in New York is on Governor’s Island which is sitting right in the bay right outside Manhattan. The Staten Island ferry passes by it. To go to the Statue of Liberty, you pass by it. The island is two miles in diameter or circumference. I lived on the base. It was basically a separate city. It had the commissary, gyms, baseball fields, tennis courts, a hotel, U officer quarters, dining facilities, housing, and the dental clinic was two blocks from my house. I was there for three years, right at the beginning of the Coast Guard’s Bicentennial and right at the beginning of Desert Storm. All of the U with the Coast Guard coming in needed to be treated. You’d look and say, “Everything that needs to be done so that he probably will not have a problem for the next six months.” Fillings were done, extractions were done because you didn’t have time to do root canal therapy for those. Anybody with severe gum disease, you looked at that too. We got those people ready. After the three years with the Coast Guard, the official language was my billet was too low to be considered for my next rank because of my training and experience when I first got there. I was a lieutenant at 03 and I was told that I would have to wear the 03 rank for six months and I would be promoted to 04, lieutenant commander. That did happen but at the same time because I had done the residency, dental school, college, and the four years prior to getting there, I was going to be eligible for the next promotion in about four years. As I was looking, they told me sitting in the oak





tree billet, wearing the 04-shoulder board, I would not be eligible for the 05 because my billet was too low and because we were top heavy in medical. I went looking for my own and that’s when I found a 04 billet at the federal prison camp here in Pensacola. I interviewed, they offered me the job. In fact, they called back to New York before I got back and let them know that I had it. That was uncomfortable but I moved to Pensacola. Because U gets higher, I did a Master of Public Health at the University of Birmingham, driving there every other weekend for two years while working full-time at the prison. That was a ticket college. My 05-promotion eligibility came, they passed me over, and then the next year I got the promotion.

	O:	Doctor, what rank is 05 for Coast Guard?



	V:	05 is commander but when I left the Coast Guard and came here, I’m public health service so that public health service is the rank I was wearing then. Public health service in Coast Guard do use the same rank. I did six years here in Pensacola then I came down with a muscle wasting disorder and autoimmune disease. No known cure, no known cause. Polymyositis. It affects your muscles and you just don’t have physical strength. I was medically retired, eighty percent medical, the other twenty percent unemployability. I have been medically retired since December 1, 1998.

	O:	When you moved to Pensacola, what was your assessment of how race relations were like here?

	V:	It was different. Being an educated Black male, you are going to be in different circles. The people that you’re gonna run into are going to be different. My





interactions have become mostly White anyway. When I got to Pensacola, I did attend a Black church. That was one side but at work, it was majority White.

When I first got to the prison, I was thinking, “Oh, this is great. There are few Black inmates here.” Then I realized, this is a federal prison camp and it’s one of the easier places. That’s why there are fewer Blacks here. As a dentist, the only dentist, the staff of the prison wants you there so that they don’t hear the inmates to complain, so the warden gets less complaints. There were few Blacks on staff, and you could see promotions among the staff appeared to be that Blacks were having a harder time moving up the ladder than Whites. As far as race relations in the town, I did my own social experiment. I went to a store, Dillard’s Department Store. It was Gayfer’s then, but it’s Dillard’s now. I went in jeans, t- shirt, and sneakers, and I was followed around the store. It went this way: nobody asks if they can help you, or somebody asks you at every turn if they can help you.

	O:	This was in the [19]90s?



	V:	Yes. Then I went dressed in a coat and tie. They were a little nicer to me, but they still followed me or asked if they could help. Then, I went in uniform. They were falling over their feet trying to help me, being so nice to me. There would be so many people, “Thank you for your service. Let me tell you about mine.” That was a difference in Pensacola. Then there were people, “How do you have that rank?” Because the first thing you say is not, “I’m a dentist, dentist to all officers.” But it was not that I was just well received because I was here. I did know that I was Black, and they let me know that they knew too.





	O:	You have been active, Dr. Veasley, I believe, in the NAACP?



	V:	Yes, I’m a past President of the local NAACP. I was Vice President for about six years, then president for a term after that.

	O:	Can you describe your work with the NAACP, like what your goals were and have been?

	V:	My goal has always been to help people not be discriminated against, and help people talk to those higher powers - people who are trying to fire them or mistreat them. There are people that still walk up to me today and thank me for scholarships that we gave as part of fraternity or part of the NAACP, people that thank me for helping them work on their cases with the NAACP. The sheriff of this county right now still will not speak to me because there was a shooting, a deputy shot a man that was in his own yard looking for cigarettes in his own car and it happened to be a Black man and the deputy was White. The neighbor across the street who was White had called the police. He didn’t recognize his neighbor going through his own car, or so he said. The rookie deputy, with the senior deputy, fired fifteen shots and the senior officer with him shot two shots.

Three of those shots hit the man, fracturing his femur. He had to have a rod placed in his leg. We had a townhall meeting here, the State President of the NAACP and regional Vice Presidents and Julian Bond actually came to that townhall meeting. There was television and newspaper coverage. The sheriff did not appreciate it because he was looking kind of bad and then on CNN just a few days prior. I worked with people fighting Fortis College. Fortis is a for-profit college and I wish I warned people about the for-profit colleges. Students come





in, amass student loan debt, and with that debt, they go into school. Many don’t finish their program, but they still have the debt.

	O:	A lot of them are veterans too.



	V:	Yes, and they’re kicked out for character things. If someone has an issue with law enforcement outside, then the school wants to kick them out. That was the big thing with Fortis. There was a teacher with Fortis who had worked for years with them and had been teaching at Pensacola State College. They wooed her and she moved there. She worked there for many years and then one day, claimed to me she had left students unattended but other teachers had been contacted and it was worked out. But, the school said, “No, we don’t want that,” after the fact. She was actually off campus with a sick child at that time. After all the extra stuff she had put in, she was surprised they had treated her that way. We worked with her. The Civil Rights Office (EEO) got involved, had a conference call, set up to dispute the matter. The school did not get onto the conference call, so they automatically lost. She was ecstatic. Cases with the police department: a woman stopped by the officers. She admits she was driving fast, trying to hurry to get a child to school and then get to school herself. When she was pulled over, the White male officer dragged her out of her car with her child in the backseat. The child actually hit the officer’s hand because the officer was trying to pull his mother out of the car. The officers did a search there on the side of the street and he called for female officer backup. The female officer did get there, and they did a search where they actually raised the woman’s top and her bra and she said it was done right there on the side of the street. She was





exposed to people driving by. That officer was fired. The lady wanted to file a suit against the police department but for some reason, she was so traumatized that she didn’t want to do a case then. Then later, she came back, and she wanted to do the case, but she was not fully into it or willing to do the case. A woman whose child who received a broken rib at a charter school and the kid had been in some kind of scuffle with one of the staff people at the school. The staff person said that during the tussle, they fell, and he fell on top of the student. Other students don’t see it quite the same way. Other students and their parents had had complaints and they were writing their statements about what had happened to their children. We were working on doing a class action kind of thing against the school but before we got on with her, U, the main lady had a father in south Florida who was sickly, and she needed to be with him. The other didn’t want to pursue this without her. She did come back after about two years and in the meantime, the school had fired the administrator that was there at the time of her child’s incident. She seemed happy about that.

	O:	It sounds like you had a really busy tenure at the NAACP as a leader.



	V:	There was a White woman that lived in Cantonment. It’s in the central part of the county. Pensacola is down at the bottom of the county. She has a biracial grandchild. She took the grandchild to a pediatrician’s office and she was complaining that the pediatrician was not seeing her quickly and she thought it was because of the child’s race. I personally don’t think it was. From talking with her, I found out how pushy she was. At this point, she was saying she was receiving racism. I don’t know for sure, but I think it was because she was such a





pushy person. I told her that I did not gather enough from what she was telling me to pursue a case against the physician. She threatened to call the NAACP to explain to them how we were misusing money here and not taking really taking care of people. I chuckled and explained to her that the money actually flows up, it doesn’t trickle down. I gave her the phone number for the national office, but after I explained to her about the money tricking up instead of down, she seemed to have lost the wind in her sails. She decided then to volunteer for the NAACP. I never saw her but that’s what she said. Occasionally we did get phone calls from intoxicated White men who were not friends of the NAACP. They wanted to call and complain about the NAACP and Blacks in the area, but they were both drunk. That liquid courage didn’t last beyond that.

	O:	Well, Dr. Veasley, I’ve taken over an hour of your time and I don’t want to take up too much more time. Do you have any issues or things you’d like to talk about that we haven’t touched upon, as we wrap up?

	V:	Being in Pensacola, being a veteran, being Black, there are obstacles that you will meet. The veteran’s administration has not been the friendliest place. As a healthcare provider, I know how healthcare stuff generally works and I also understand when you’re pushing somebody back to keep from doing something. I felt some of that. I actually did have a specialist decide he didn’t want to see me anymore because I questioned him on a treatment process. My question was for understanding, not doubting his abilities, but he didn’t see it that way. Pensacola is still a racist town. Veterans are still not being treated well. The service that they get at the VA is quality service but it’s the amount of time it takes to get it is more





than I think it should be. Some of the processes are stretched out and some of that I think is stretched out so they can wear the veteran out so that they’ll give up the fight. I personally accepted the eighty percent medical, twenty percent individual unemployability because I physically did not have the strength to fight a rebuttal. I just told them, “Give me the other twenty percent physical unemployability and I’ll leave you alone.” They approved that so quickly.

	O:	They were quick on that at least.



	V:	In Pensacola, to be a Black person driving in the street, you see a police car coming up behind you, you do immediately check. Yes, I have my seat belt on. No, I’m not on the phone. Yes, I’m driving the speed limit. I’m staying in the lane. I’m using signals. I’m doing all the things a good driver does. It’s a reaction that should not be there, but it is.

	O:	There’s a history with the police department and sheriff’s department that you have to be really concerned if you’re an African American.

	V:	Yes. My wife was afraid for me to take the NAACP position because she expected my vehicles to become targets. They did not as far as I know.

	O:	Well, Dr. Veasley, I want to thank you for your service and for your time that you spent with me today and to let you know we will be making a CD copy of the interview. We’ll have your address and email; we can give you as many CD copies as you’d like. We can give you mp3 copies if you’d like as well. Like I mentioned, there’s the paperwork here for the Library of Congress project and if there’s nothing else, we can wrap up. Again, thank you so much. I do want to know for the record that you are taking a cookie.





	V:	[Laughter] Thank your wife for me.



	O:	My wife will be very honored. Thank you, sir, for your time. I appreciate it. V:	You’re welcome.

[End of interview]



	Audit-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, February 17, 2021 Final-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, February 22, 2021