AAHP 672A; Woods; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 672A LaFanette Soles-Woods Interviewed by Marcus Chatfield on July 6, 2019 19 Pages

Abstract:

Keywords: [African American History; Pensacola, Florida; Environmental Racism]



AAHP 672A

Interviewee: LaFanette Soles-Woods Interviewer: Marcus Chatfield

Date: July 6, 2019



C:  My name is Marcus Chatfield. It is July 6, 2019. I am here with LaFanette Soles- Woods, and I would like you to, if you could, please speak your name and if you could spell it for the transcriber.

S:  Sure. LaFanette Soles-Woods. That’s L-A-capital F-A-N-E-T-T-E. Last name is S-O-L-E-S, dash, W-O-O-D-S.

	C:	Thank you so much. Before we turned the recorder on, you were speaking about your work with the county commissioners and with the community with the landfills. Would you like to start there?

	S:	Actually, I think I would like to give a little background information concerning myself.

	C:	Great.



	S:	Okay. Again, my name is LaFanette Soles-Woods. I am the daughter of Julius Soles and Aserdean Soles and the granddaughter of John Henry Soles. John Henry Soles purchased twenty acres of land in the Olive Heights area back in 1952. That’s where our family started, and the land that he purchased, he sold a lot of it off to other people out here. So, a lot of people came in from Alabama and other places, and that’s how our neighborhood got started here. I was born where I live right now. When my parents got married in 1956, my grandfather gave my mother and father a little piece of land, and they built their first home there. Then, I came along in 1958 and I also have a sister, and this is where we grew up. Later on in the early part of the 1970s, they built this neighborhood of Wedgewood, the community of Wedgewood. So, our family moved from the





Olive Heights area and moved into Wedgewood. Olive Heights actually surrounds Wedgewood. So, that’s where my sister and I grew up, and we went to school. I left Pensacola in 1975 and went to college and returned in the end of 1976, and then I left again in 1978. I joined the US Air Force where I stayed until I retired in 1995.

	C:	Oh, wow!



	S:	After retiring, I moved back here, relocated back to Pensacola, and back where life began for me [Laughter] in the same little spot that my grandfather had given to my parents as their first home, staying there from 1997. Then, in 2014, my mother had asked me to come go to a county commissioners meeting with her. She said that they were trying to fight this landfill next door to the school because we did have a Wedgewood School right here that they tore down. Well, speaking of that school, we had asked the commissioners or the school board to let the community have that school as a community center, and they explained to us that they found out that that school was full of asbestos so we could not use the school to have people coming in and out of it because it had that going on. So, they agreed to tear the school down and build a community center here, but, when they tore the school down, they carried all of the debris from that school right across the street over here to this landfill. We were like, Okay, so if it was too bad for us to go in and out of, then how is that making it good for them to throw the debris there? That’s what they did with it.

	C:	Was that in 2014?





	S:	No, they did not do that in 2014. It was before that. But, in 2014, this landfill was really smelling really, really bad in the community, and some of us didn’t really know where the smell was coming from. We found out that, in 2004, we had Hurricane Ivan come through here, and it destroyed a lot of homes out here.

They found out that a lot of the homes that were destroyed had used the stuff for the walls that came from China.

	C:	Okay, yeah, the sheetrock, and they had asbestos in it.



	S:	Because this was a construction and demolition landfill over here, they were bringing all of that construction demolition over there. After it would rain and that Chinese sheetrock would mold, then it started having that rotten egg smell of the H2S-hydrogen sulfate. It was really, really strong out here, very strong, and so we were trying to get that closed up to where they could not use it. I mean, we have children out here, and right next door there’s a playground.

	C:	Next door to the landfill?



	S:	Right. It’s right out that window right there.



	C:	Right. I assumed there was asbestos in the Chinese sheetrock, but that’s not what you were saying? Did I get that right?

	S:	It’s H2S, hydrogen sulfate. C:	Okay. That’s good to clarify.

	S:	So, we would go to the county commissioner’s meetings every two weeks when they would have a meeting to just ask them for help to do something. We didn’t care what they did, but we wanted something done. But, every week we would go there, they would tell us no, no, no, no, no, there’s really nothing they could





do. Then, we had others that came in to assist us, and we found out that that landfill had a lot of violations that had not been addressed. The people that were owning it at that time had took over that landfill in 2007, and, between 2007 and 2014, they had seventeen violations and never paid a fine. We, as a community, people around here are just dying. They’re still dying like flies. One lady that was one of the managers here at the community center, she was the manager for a couple years and coming here to open the center every day, she has now had three strokes, and she can’t do for herself. She is in a wheelchair and in a nursing home, and a close friend of hers would help her. They lived right down the street here on Pinestead Road. He had a massive heart attack, and his children sent for him to come to Detroit. Now, he has since died, died a couple months ago, and every week you hear about one or two people from our neighborhood that have gone on. There is not a week that goes by that somebody from out here has not died. The lady that I was speaking of, she used to sing, I mean beautiful voice for singing, and she would sing at a lot of people’s funerals. In 2014, from February to June, she went to forty funerals to sing.

	C:	Oh my gosh. Wow.



	S:	I just kind of stopped counting and keeping up with how many people were passing on because I didn’t know everybody, so I couldn’t keep up with everybody. It’s a lot going on out here.

	C:	When did you start putting it together that–



	S:	That it was that landfill? We started putting it together all in 2014. Our county commissioner, Lumon May, he had got two city buses and invited a couple of our





state representatives to come down for a tour to see what–because, our little community here, we actually have thirteen landfills surrounding us. They’re not all active. We have eight that are active, and most of them are extraction facilities where they are taking the dirt out and using it for the roads and building, all of that. But, this one here was really active in accepting debris. We got that one closed down in 2016. But, yes there are thirteen here. We do have another one that is taking in stuff, but they are a concrete recycling facility. I don’t know if you know about crushed concrete. It gives off silica dust.

	C:	Yeah.



	S:	Okay, well, it’s sitting on the corner right here, and there’s a little road here and on this corner is a high school. We have four schools right next to this concrete facility, and we’ve been trying to get them to shut that down. But, our friendly neighborhood commissioners two months ago gave them another permit to work there for another year. [Laughter]

	C:	You gotta laugh just because– S:	That’s all you can do is laugh.

	C:	So, when they give them another permit, what is their official rhetoric? What is their…

	S:	The reason that they say that it’s okay for them to do that? C:	Yeah.

S:  Because this facility is telling them that they’re gonna keep wetting it down when they doing the recycle thing and they’re only gonna do it about five or six times a year. But, you have these big dump trucks coming in and out of there every





single day bringing in concrete, and they put a wooden fence around it, a privacy fence. They said that the dust can’t go through the privacy fence, nor can it go over it. I’m thinking, Okay.

	C:	Wow. So, on the commission, is it majority White commissioners?



	S:	We have one Black commissioner. We have five districts, and there is one Black commissioner.

	C:	Yeah. Earlier when you said others came in to assist, I think maybe it was 2014, was that an outside group?

	S:	Yes, outside groups. People that did not live in our community, but they had gone through some of the struggles that we are seeing. They said that they would help us where they could. We have been in the media a lot, especially back during that time frame. The Pensacola News Journal have a lot of articles on us from out here, and the Channel 3 News, they have quite a few articles also. We have had help from the University of West Florida,. Right now, we have helping us is the Deep South Center for Environmental Justice out of New Orleans. They were given a major grant from the Kellogg’s Foundation. They are assisting five neighborhoods across the Gulf Coast, and we are one of those five. So, they are trying to do research to kind of tell us where we can go from here.

	C:	Do they provide training to community leaders?



	S:	Yes. Well, I won’t say it’s community leaders. [Laughter] C:	Well, I was thinking of you when I said that.

	S:	Yes, I am with one of the groups that is getting some training.



	C:	Do they give coaching like how to talk to politicians basically or how to–





	S:	No.



	C:	Okay, so what kind of training are they…



	S:	We’re doing things like asset mapping and trying to go out and get health surveys done and those type of things.

	C:	Okay. So it’s actual research you all are doing? S:	Right.

	C:	That’s incredible, and it’s all volunteer-based? S:	Yes.

	C:	Wow, that’s really something. I’m trying to imagine what it must be like for the community when they hear that another year is being permitted or when a landfill has been cited seventeen times and it is still allowed to continue. I’m trying to imagine what those discussions are like.

	S:	They’re not nice. They really aren’t. [Laughter] Then, we have another facility down the street and around the corner there that they have been given a permit to accept tree debris where people cleaning off trees. But, I don’t know if that’s the only thing they do down in there. Over the weekends, most of the time, you can hear gunshots down there. They also use it as a firing range, but not everybody can go down in there and fire off their weapons.

	C:	Yeah. And so, with thirteen landfills, do you happen to know–Was the first one built in the [19]50s or the [19]60s?

S:  Well, when I was growing up, red clay is really prevalent around here, so a lot of the places were selling the red clay to go for road work and building houses and that sort of thing. So, a lot of the landfills–we call them pits, a lot of the pits what





we called them when we were growing up–clay pits. Some of them came off of some of the little creeks and little streams around, so people around here would go fishing in the clay pit. The kids would go fishing or swimming at the clay pit. I wasn’t allowed to do that, but there were a lot of kids that used to do that. Now, everything is all contaminated, so you just can’t go to the clay pit anymore like that. The runoff from all this other stuff has made our water and air really bad.

The people in the area where I live mostly were farmers. They had goats and pigs and chickens and a lot of cows and that sort of thing, and they would feed these animals from the vegetables and fruits and things that they were growing on their land and also feed their families. But, when this landfill over here started getting bad, you can’t grow anything. I myself had peach trees in my backyard and plum trees, and I would go and get the fruit from my trees and make preserves and all. All of the sudden, all my trees died.

	C:	Really?



	S:	I would sit on my front porch, and we would watch the squirrels run across the power lines. I mean there would be like a thousand squirrels out there, and, all of a sudden, no squirrels. On my front porch, I had some birds that used to come every year and make their nests on my porch and hatch their little eggs. No birds. I mean all of the animals just stopped coming. The only thing you would see out there would be maybe a snake somewhere or a rat, but not the friendly animals. I would have a yard full of beautiful flowers and plants, and they stopped growing.

	C:	And that was from the hydrogen sulfide gas?





	S:	Yes. We now have four monitors surrounding us for the hydrogen sulfide, and, when they first started reading it, some of the readings were over the limit of the monitor itself. But, they would never notify the community when it got that high because our health department director said that it had to be over two hundred parts per billion for thirty consecutive minutes three times in a row before they have to notify us. But, you have a reading that says eight hundred parts per billion, but you don’t call anybody because it’s not there for thirty minutes.

	C:	Wow.



	S:	Yeah, that’s what we got. C:	Wow. Wow.

	S:	[Laughter] I don’t mean to blow you away from [inaudible 27:24].



	C:	No, you know it’s the same story. It fits that pattern that happens all over, as you know.

	S:	I think when we first started going down to the commissioner’s meeting, the reason we were going is because they were planning a highway to go from one of our roads, Creighton Road. They got it at the road to Creighton, and then they’re planning to bring it all the way across town to Blue Angel Parkway. We were trying to not have that road come through here because people on this road right here are gonna lose their homes. They’ve been playing us for years about that road. So now, we found out that they are planning now to bring that road again through here, but they told us when we started fighting the landfill that they would not be able to do that because it’s too many contaminates over there.

Well, they are supposed to have been cleaning that up to close it up. Still, it was





supposed to be closed December 31, 2016. But, the company that was closing it, they just walked off the job, so it’s still not sealed.

	C:	I think I read about that, and what I think I read–correct me if I’m wrong–is that the case where they gave an estimate of how much they thought it would be, and then it turned out to be way more, and then it turned out to be delayed? And, the end story of that is they just walked away.

	S:	Mmhm. And so, supposedly, the commissioners have another company. Not the commissioners, the Florida Department of Environmental Protection is supposed to have another company that is supposed to had agreed to close that up, and they’re supposed to start next month. But, I don’t believe that. They’re telling us that that road is still gonna go through there, and those people, if they don’t accept the offers for their homes over there, they’re gonna call it eminent domain. Every time when it rains–like I see the cloud is brewing up now–but, if it rains, something over in that landfill explodes, and you can smell it all over the neighborhood.

	C:	When you say “explodes”, you mean the gas comes out? Can you hear an explosion?

	S:	You can actually hear an explosion. Sometimes, it shake your house. Yes.



Sometimes it’s a real big fire, and they have to call the fire department to come over there to put the fire out. The company that owns that landfill had padlocks on the gate and would not let the fire department go in there a couple times.

They had to call the county administrator to come down here and cut the lock off the gate.





	C:	When you say a fire, like how big of a fire?



	S:	Like a big fire. Fire, fire. [Laughter] Like smoke kind of fire, black smoke. You can just see it all over.

	C:	Wow. And, there is something with the rain that it heats it up? S:	Yes.

	C:	Wow, but the official story is that it’s sealed up? S:	Not yet. It’s not sealed yet.

	C:	Okay, right. That’s what they have not finished yet. S:	Right.

	C:	Wow. In the [19]50s, this was farms, and then there was an influx of–is it predominately White people that came from Alabama in the [19]50s?

	S:	No. All Black.



	C:	Okay, all Black. So, I’m thinking, it’s farmland. People are working hard on their farm, but the land is clean at that point?

	S:	Yes.



	C:	At what point did it become toxic?



	S:	From this landfill right here. Not only did we have Hurricane Ivan in 2004, but then also, in 2014 in April, we had a major flood here. We got like–I forget how high the water got. When that flood came through, the barriers for this landfill got washed away, and it was a lot of debris. It’s two houses right at the back of the landfill on this side. Everything from there went straight through the middle of those people’s homes, and the storm drain lines did not work. So, all this water is





all mixed up, and it’s going to everybody’s houses in their yards and stuff. That contaminated the whole neighborhood.

	C:	When you say everybody, are you saying predominately Black or everybody Black?

	S:	The neighborhood is predominately Black. It’s not 100 percent Black out here. C:	But basically?

	S:	Yes, basically.



	C:	When you are working with the group in New Orleans and working with community members and talking with the council members, how does the discussion of race fit in with that? Or, historically, thinking how the land was in the [19]50s and how it is today, how did it get this way?

	S:	[Laughter] We’re not really sure how it got this way to be honest. I don’t know.



One of the people that was very instrumental in helping us, her name is Dr. Gloria Horning. Have you heard of her?

	C:	I’ve heard the name, yeah.



	S:	Okay, she’s an environmentalist, and she also worked with–we had a group that was down in Golden community in Pensacola where the Kress Co., I think that’s…They had a company that made fertilizer, and they ended up having Mount Dioxin right in Pensacola. The people that were working to get that closed up, Dr. Horning was helping them. So, she had been working with them, and, when she heard about what was going on out here, she came out here and started giving us direction as to which way we should go and how we should do things. She is still part of helping us out, and she brought in a lot of media. One





time, we had over seventy journalists come here from all over the world. They came here, and we gave them a tour of our neighborhood and landfills and all. They came from the Ukraine, from Russia, from…

	C:	Wow.



	S:	Yes, it was eye-opening.



	C:	Well, I can imagine thinking, well, surely with that much news coverage, surely that would…

	S:	It opened people’s eyes as to what’s going on. Still, we feel that we don’t have any help. We are still a community that is forgotten.

	C:	Yeah. So, with the commissioners and the political representation, is there a history of political corruption in Pensacola that plays into this?

	S:	Yes, it is. There is a lot of political corruption to this. One thing that we did find out is that one of our state representatives, he’s no longer a state representative. He’s deceased now, but he was still going strong back in 2014. His name was Greg Evers, and his nephew is who owns this landfill. So…[Laughter]

	C:	Oh, wow. That’s a really important piece of the whole… S:	Yes.

	C:	Did you look into the owners of the other landfills? S:	No, they are all big-money people.

	C:	Big-money people with the ability to contribute to political campaigns and hire lawyers and all of that.





	S:	Right, and we’re just little peons with nothing but a dream. [Laughter] A dream that our families would be taken care of once we are all gone. But, at the rate it’s going, we won’t have to worry about it. We will all be gone before…gone.

	C:	But, it’s so sad thinking of how beautiful this area was and the American dream of owning your house, and typically people take for granted that their property values are gonna go up. Yeah. So, before the hydrogen sulfide, and I guess you would have been away serving in the air force, but when the pits were being opened and filled, there was more of a nuisance with the noise and with garbage trucks and the smell. But, at that point, in the [19]80s and [19]90s, were there health concerns then that you know about?

	S:	No.



	C:	It was just more a nuisance. S:	Yeah.

	C:	Right. You were born in 1958, so I’m trying to calculate what grade you might have been in when the schools were desegregated.

	S:	I remember that our class–let’s see, I was in the sixth grade, and we were the first sixth-grade class to go to the middle school. Wedgewood Middle School that I went to, it was originally built right directly behind this community center, and it was a high school. It was a junior/senior high school, and it was one of two Black high schools in Pensacola. When they decided to desegregate everything, then they made that one into a middle school, and the other one stayed a high school, Booker T. Washington High School. They’re still a high school. I think I was eleven years old when they did that.





	C:	Can you talk about what that experience was like, shifting schools?



	S:	Well, it was not a bad experience for me per se because growing up, my dad was in the army. So, we were stationed in Virginia, and that’s where I actually started elementary school. We came back to Pensacola, and I did first and second grade at a predominately Black school. Well, first, second, and third grade were in predominately Black schools, but, when I went to the fourth grade, my mother transported my sister and I to a predominately White school. It was only a few Blacks that were there at that school. When we got to sixth grade is when they actually started mixing a whole lot of stuff up around here.

	C:	So, did you go to Booker T. Washington High School?



	S:	I did not. We had another high school across the highway, W.J. Woodham High School, and that is where I finished my school.

	C:	Okay. What college did you go to in 1975?



	S:	I went to Bethune-Cookman College down in Daytona Beach. C:	Okay. And, from there, you went to the air force?

	S:	I did.



	C:	What did you study in college?



	S:	English and speech pathology. [Laughter]



	C:	Okay. And, how did you end up deciding to go into the air force?



	S:	Well, I think I got mad at my parents at one point [Laughter] because I was wanting to follow the basketball team when they would go this place and that place, and my mother got mad at me. She said that I should join the military and get paid for traveling, and I said, “Okay, well, I’ll do just that.” [Laughter]





	C:	Oh my gosh! That’s so great! [Laughter]



	S:	So, that’s what I did. On my way to basic training, I regretted that decision, though. I was like, What did I really do to myself? But, after I got in, then I was glad that I did decide to serve.

		C:		Then, you came back in 1995? S:	Yes.

	C:	And, was that the same property? Your childhood home?



	S:	Well, the house had been torn down, but it’s the same lot of land. I bought a doublewide mobile home, and I had it placed there. But, it’s still the same same.

	C:	Yeah. Well, when you think back on your childhood here and you think of how it is today, what are some of the biggest differences?

	S:	Biggest differences…I guess just things getting modernized. Basically, the same people that were living in my neighborhood when I was growing up, a lot are still in the same places. Like Mrs. Sunday that you’ll be interviewing in a little while, they’ve been down there forever. I grew up with all of her girls. She had five girls. I grew up with them, but it’s basically the same families of people that are still there. Of course, we did not have the pits around there, not doing us harm anyway. They were good neighbors back then. My mother is a beautician, and she had a little beauty shop in our backyard when we were growing up. She’s still doing hair. She’s been a beautician for sixty-five years, and she’s still at it. [Laughter]

	C:	Wow.



	S:	I’m retired, but she’s not.





	C:	What is her name? S:	Aserdean Soles.

	C:	Wow. That is so great. I’m thinking about the pits and thinking about the commissioners, and I’m thinking about the history of race relations in Pensacola. Is there any way to compare race relations through the [19]60s and [19]70s and compare it to today?

	S:	Personally, I think it’s still the same. I don’t think that there has been too much of a change. I think the only reason that some of the things that we did get out here so far, as far as the health with the monitors and getting the landfill closed, basically is because the commissioner for our district is a Black man, and, if he had not been an African-American man, then I don’t think that they would have done some of the things that we do. He’s a very good speaker, and he don’t mind telling the rest of them what he really thinks. He was influential in getting other legislative people to come out here and actually see what we are actually going through, and, if it had not been for that, I think that things would have been a lot different. Another thing that helped us so far is just on the other side of the fence of the landfill is one of our more prominent communities. I wish I could give you a tour. [Laughter] If you go down and around past the landfill, they have built a privacy fence down this one road. On this side of the privacy fence is our community of Olive Heights and Wedgewood, and on the other side of the fence is Marcus Pointe. They have some of the most expensive homes that you can buy in Pensacola.

	C:	And, it’s right there?





	S:	It’s right there, and those people on that side of the fence, they’re just as sick as we are. But, they don’t know why because nobody seemed to tell them that they’re breathing the same air that we’re breathing over here. But, they think that they can’t be touched by this problem, and I think the main thing is that they don’t want to face it because then their property values will be just as bad as ours.

C:  Wow. It would be a big problem for the property values. I wonder, how do the doctors around here–they’re probably today more aware of the environmental health concerns. I wonder about the process of educating the doctors.

	S:	Well, my doctor says that he can’t say whether the environmental factors that I live in are causing the medical issues that I have because they are not environmentalists.

	C:	And so, the research you’re doing…



	S:	The research that we’re doing, it’s all being compiled by Texas Southern University, and so the stuff that we have already taken in has already been sent to them. They haven’t got it all in yet, but I’m sure, when they get things put into the computer, it’s gonna blow somebody’s mind.

	C:	Yeah, that’s such important work. Just amazing. So, the sheetrock, that started after Hurricane Ivan 2004?

	S:	Yes.



	C:	Was Wedgewood School torn down before 2004?



	S:	It was. On the cornerstone of this building, I think it have that date on there.



	C:	You know, I think we’re gonna have to take a tour before we go back and try to get some pictures.





	S:	When are you all leaving?



	C:	We’re driving back on Monday.



	S:	Okay, I will give you my telephone number. I am the one that do the tours, so, if you want to give me a call, I don’t mind meeting you here at the community center and actually taking you out from one spot to the next to let you see. I can’t show you all thirteen landfills, but I can show you the prominent ones that are giving us the problems here.

	C:	Yeah. Deborah who was just in here, she has a camera. She’s the tech person, so she does all that. But, she’s been talking about wanting to get some good pictures.

	S:	I don’t mind taking you out. [Laughter]



	C:	That would be great. Is there anything else, any other parts of this history that you’d like to document today and include in this so people can know?

	S:	It’s a nice, beautiful, quiet neighborhood that has just been harmed through environmental racism. That’s the only thing that I can really tell you. [Laughter]

	C:	Well, that puts it real clearly. [End of interview]







Transcribed by: Dewin Anguas Barnette, July 10, 2020 Audit-edited by: Sandra Romero, January 21, 2021 Final edited by: Sandra Romero, January 26, 2021