AAHP 671; Marshall; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 671 Dorothy Marshall 7-6-2019



Interviewed by Marcus Chatfield and Teniade Marshall on July 6, 2019 27 Pages

Abstract:

Keywords: [African American History; Pensacola, Florida; Segregation; School integration]



AAHP 671

Interviewee: Dorothy Marshall Interviewer: Marcus Chatfield Date: July 6, 2019



C:  My name is Marcus Chatfield. We are here today on July 6, 2019, at the Marie K. Young Community Center in Pensacola, Florida, and I am here with Ms. Dorothy Marshall. Dorothy, would you please state your name and spell your name for the recording?

	M:	Yes, I am Dorothy, D-O-R-O-T-H-Y, Marshall. Well, B. I dropped the Mae. I was Dorothy Mae Baker, but I dropped the Mae and put the Baker. So, I am Dorothy Baker Marshall, M-A-R-S-H-A-L-L. I was born in 1940 in Pensacola, Florida, known as Olive Manor.

	C:	Thank you, and we are also here with Tenia Day–You just said your last name. B:	Bronson.

	C:	Bronson. So, you just said you were born in Pensacola in what area? M:	They called it Lincoln Park. But, it is Olive Manor.

	C:	How long has your family been in the Pensacola area? M:	All my life, as I knows of.

	C:	And, your mother and father?



	M:	They wasn’t married. My mother was born in Pensacola, Florida, and I think my dad was born in Pensacola, Florida. But, all my parents like Pensacola, Florida, [inaudible 48:47] grandmother, grandfather. Now, my grandfather, they kinda say he came from Virginia, but he was a reverend–J.C. Baker–all my life. He married me. Well, he started out. [Laughter]

	C:	What schools did you go to growing up?





	M:	I have a preference of the name of the school, but I always called it Olive. I started school way before Wedgewood was built. Way long time.

	C:	Did you say Olive?



	M:	It was a Lutheran school down in Brent. I don’t know if you know where that at, but it was down the railroad track, a old red-looking building. [inaudible 47:52] school was over next door. They closed that school and opened up a two-room class. Everybody went to class together, or either they divided up the first grade, second grade. But, we all kinda went to school together, the seniors, the juniors, like me, was a baby. We all went to school together.

	C:	So, all the ages were together?



	M:	Yeah. All the ages was there. We had a photo, but it got lost by moving and transporting this place, that place. Then, I left there. I went to J. Lee Pickens. J. Lee Pickens was on–What street is that? I can’t remember the name of the street. But, it was J. Lee Pickens. I left J. Lee Pickens, and then I went to Washington High.

	C:	So, J. Lee Pickens would be the middle school? M:	It was a middle school.

	C:	What year were you in Washington High School?



	M:	All the years up until eleven to twelfth grade. I had my baby, and so I decided to have my baby and go back to night school. Not this baby. My older baby was born in [19]59 as soon as I graduated.

	C:	So, what year did you graduate from high school?



	M:	My oldest child was born in [19]59. That’s the oldest boy.





	C:	Okay. So, you were in high school in the [19]50s though at Washington High? M:	Yeah.

	C:	So, it was a segregated school?



M:  And then, I moved to Mr. Lewis where I graduated. We had a graduation thing that you had your gown and all that. I had some pictures of that, but that’s way back. But, we legally graduated, marched, and stuff like that at a church, St.

James Baptist Church.



	C:	You were saying earlier you joined the church at nine years old? M:	At nine.

	C:	That’s the same church that you were–?



	M:	I got into because–that lady with the apron on–she was the lady that raised me, that come and got me. So, she raised me till I got like twelve. I got to look at you to tell what I’m telling. [Laughter] But, anyway, I could read, so that’s why I went back to my grandmother, my mother’s mother. She had surgery, so I had to give her her medication. What’d I do then? I stayed there until I had my first child with my grandmother like Olive Manor. They had all these different names, but somehow or another they would always call our place “the Bottom”. That was the Upper, and this was the Bottom. [inaudible 44:53] Bottom.

	C:	I wondered about that. I saw the Bottoms listed on the–



	M:	They called it the Bottom, and up there was the Upper. [Laughter] C:	Why did they call it the Bottom?

	M:	Now, that’s a history. Because it was lower. It was low land. Up there is high land, and up here was lower. I guess that’s the reason they did it. I can go into





detail how you would get in here, but I remember horse and buggy, wagon. We would go down here to the creek and get water past my house from over there where the golf course at. The golf course blocked us off. See, they need to put that street back where we can get out of here. They blocked us out. So, it’s right there by my house. We go down there to the spring, wash clothes, and stuff like that. I remember we didn’t even have lights. We had a lamp. That’s how we got our homework and clean that clothes with a piece of old paper bag. That soot that comes from the fire, you could keep it clean, and it shined like these lights. See, we was young. We could see. [Laughter]

	C:	Wow. So, you had to cross across the golf course to get water from the spring?



M:  It was right just below my house. They called it the creek. The horse and wagon would go there and get drums and buckets of water to feed the animals because they didn’t have no pump. I always wanted that pump, but my cousin had bought the property that I used the pump.

	C:	That was before you came to the Wedgewood community, right? That was before you came to this area, right?

	M:	No, I was still in this Wedgewood area. See, this area goes back some years, as I was a little girl. See, this place here was already in the making. They had one car, like I told you. You would crank it up with a crank [Makes noise] and push it or something. My uncle owned a car. My grandmother owned a car. She was one of the first Black ladies own the milk dairy. I can go way back. [Laughter] You bringing me up some history now.

	C:	You mentioned the dairy. Was that–





	M:	Yeah, my aunt, Mary Beth Davis, she was the only Black person who had a dairy, her own cows, and they’d milk them. That was over in Brent.

	C:	How many cows did she have?



	M:	I don’t know how many cows, but it was some cows. [Laughter] Then, my grandmother, when I went to Lincoln Park over there with her, she used to work for them, and they had milk jugs with a little white top on it. She would drive and deliver milk to your door. That was my original grandmother, not the greatgran, the grandmother.

	B:	Ms. Mary Bell?



	M:	That’s my mother. My grandmother’s name Bertha Baker. C:	Mary Evans Blunt was your great-grandmother.

	M:	She was the first Black person. B:	To have a dairy?

	M:	Yeah. Downtown.



	B:	And, what’s her name?



	M:	My grandmother was named Bertha Baker. She was one of the first Blacks. B:	To own a dairy?

	M:	To deliver milk. Now go back to Wedgewood.



	B:	Do you remember anything about who the midwives were back then?



	M:	No, but I remember they said Dr. Cobb. He was the doctor that birthed me. He bought a lot of property in Lincoln Park. You could see cars everywhere. So, what he did, he sold it to a lot of Blacks, and they begin to accumulate from here to there.





	C:	He bought land in the Wedgewood area? M:	Lincoln Park. Dr. Cobb.

	B:	Who Cobb Center is named after. M:	You heard of him?

	B:	Yeah. E.S. Cobb. Mmhm. I have a picture of him.



	C:	So, I have been thinking about how Wedgewood has changed over the years.



	M:	It has changed a lot. We got a lot of things going on in Wedgewood that we wished we’d have had it back then. I think some of my kids went to Wedgewood School, but I know some of them went to [inaudible 39:38]. Some of them went to Pine Forest. So, we come up with a middle school for my children went to Pine Forest, and also some of my grandchildren went to Pine Forest. I got a big family. [Laughter] Either one. But, anyway, it did [inaudible 39:19] a lot, but after, I don’t know if they tore the school down. They tore this school down, didn’t they?

	B:	So, from what you remember, was Wedgewood a high school and a– M:	Wedgewood was a high school.

	B:	It was a high school. Do you remember what grades it went from?



	M:	Unh-uh. My children will have to help me out with that because they were still living right in this area.

		B:		Okay. Do you remember when they closed the high school? M:	No.

	C:	So, you were already out of school before the school was integrated? That’s true?

	M:	Right.





	C:	So, were your kids in school during–



	M:	Now, I remember when that president got killed. Wasn’t that a president way back in the day? Somebody got killed.

	B:	Kennedy?



	M:	Who was the president got killed? Remember, he got shot? B:	Our president?

	M:	Uh-huh. One of our presidents. B:	Yeah. JFK?

	M:	Yeah. Now, I think I was in Washington, but I remember that day. Was it in the [19]50s when he got killed?

	B:	Well, this was [19]63.



	M:	[19]63? Okay, I was having children because I got some in [19]60. Baby, that boy there.

	C:	When you say so many things have changed, what are some of the other ways that this area has changed over the years?

	M:	Well, they gave us streets first because we used to have nothing but sand and ruts. You gotta stick in the rut to go where you going because, if you cross over this pile of dirt and cross over, you might get stuck. So, you got to go straight. It wasn’t that many cars. So, you would have to stay in this rut, and, after a while, we got a street. That’s right there. We had to give like twenty-five feet of our property of our [inaudible 37:18] to get a street. Twenty-five over here and twenty-five over there. That would make that fifty feet, so I remember that. Then, there after a while, they come on with the garbage a later year. Now, when I was





born, a little girl, my uncle was in the World War II. That’s when we got lights. Helped me–he was in service–hook up some lights. I was at his mother’s house then. That’s my uncle.

	C:	You mentioned the garbage. Do you remember when was the first dump, the first pits?

	M:	Now, we had a dump. It’s a long story. The Greens got they dump, but it was another way you could come in here. It was over there behind Marcus Pointe, and everybody would dump their stuff, lumber and everything. But, it wasn’t in that area where Greens at here. It was like Marcus Pointe back in there, and you would go through there, get clothes, furniture, wood, lumber. Oh, we cutted wood all over in here for the wood heater because we had wood heaters, wood stove.

	B:	So, for the people in the neighborhood, you used that area first as just the neighborhood’s dump?

	M:	Right.



	B:	Was this before they brought in the–



	M:	The county. I don’t know what year that was, but it’s been here a few years. I don’t know what year. Y’all would have to look that up. I’m sure we was glad to get it because I know my grandmother didn’t have it, the one that raised me.

They didn’t have nothing like that. Everybody carried their stuff to like these woods, stuff like that, and dump it in the woods. We go through there and ramble, find something, go home, get the old wash pot and wash it, whatever. Yeah, that’s what they did.

	B:	So, you said you washed your clothes in the creek?





	M:	We washed the clothes in the creek, the spring, and so, when Wedgewood come in messed up the spring water, they got a turn thing down there, and they done messed our spring up. It was a spring right from my house.

	B:	So, you used to get water from the spring to drink, as well, or just to wash? M:	You had a clothes line, like a wire clothesline. Then, you wash your clothes,

come back, and put them on the clothes line wire.



	B:	So, you said before, when you had drinkable water here, you had pumps, or what did you all do?

	M:	Pumps. That’s what we had–pumps.



	B:	You had pumps for drinkable water, and then you used the creek to wash clothes.

	M:	That’s where we drank water I guess from the spring, not from the creek.



	B:	Okay, so your pump was connected to the spring water, and then you used the creek to wash everything.

	M:	Yeah, and wash clothes. Mmhm. Everybody had their little pots, you know, would gather up limbs and stuff to make a fire, have your pot along down there, something like the foreign peoples I see. Those people have a hard time and a way to go, like them old ladies making that bread and stuff.

	B:	Do you remember them doing baptisms out there at the water?



	M:	Yes. Now, some ladies was over there. Now, they might have been baptized. I don’t know, but they go to Cedar Grove. They came from Alabama, and I was already here. Ms. Larsen and whatever the other lady’s name.

	B:	So, do you remember them doing the baptisms out there?





	M:	Well, we sprinkle. Methodists got a bowl. We sprinkle. B:	I’m AME. I know. [Laughter]

	M:	You Methodist?



	B:	Yes, ma’am, and we sprinkle. But, do you remember the Baptist people meeting down at the–

	M:	I just could barely because I was a big-sized girl then. Most likely, I had already done went back to Lincoln Park, but I remember when they came here with these mules and wagons and the Sols. I think when he come and bought a whole lot of land, and then he sold it to his friends or whatever and Ava Hart. All them people came from Alabama. We didn’t have nobody here from Alabama until they come in and bought land, and they bought land for little to nothing. Don’t know where they land at now, probably don’t. I was messed up too. Where your acre at?

Where your acre at? Because they stepped it off.



	B:	They stepped it off?



	M:	That way, you step off your five feet, ten feet, and stuff like that. They didn’t use no ruler and this modern thing, scope. That’s why nobody don’t know where they property at.

	B:	Oh.



	M:	That’s some of their history. They don’t know, and you can’t tell them no different. C:	And, people started moving in when the interstate came through?

	M:	I remember when the interstate, I was still in Lincoln Park up there. I was pregnant with my daughter, and I remember when that came through. So, that was in the [19]50s. I remember that just as good. It upset a lot of people, but it





didn’t bother my grandmother and them. But, it bothered some more peoples. They had to move out. One lady didn’t move. She was a school teacher, and her old house is up under some bushes on some bricks there. Up in the can place up here? She wouldn’t move out, so she had a house there. Her old house, I guess, rotted on down. Just right up across this railroad track up another one. Out there by the can place. But, she was a retired school teacher, Miss Maggie Johnson.

	B:	So, who do you remember in the neighborhood as some of the important people?



Who would you say were some of the important people of your childhood?



	M:	In this neighborhood?



	B:	Yes, in Wedgewood. In the Bottom. Who would you consider some of the important–

	M:	Okay, so, Ava Hart, Ms. Jones. I remember the Sols and the Wrights. All them peoples just started coming because it was a long mile before. Okay, we had a café called Country Kitchen. The building’s still there. When the storms come, our family would go to this building because it was supported, good lumber, good foundation, and that’s where we would go when the storm was so bad. It ain’t far. You could get to it before you get to my house. They called it Country Kitchen.

You would come right through this way to get there. Like the people come from town, everybody come to get to Country Kitchen to get mullet fish.

	B:	And, the building is still standing? M:	Yeah, the building is still there.

	B:	Where is it?





	M:	Down on Rolling Hills Road. That’s where I had my first labor in that house, and they tried to get me to go in–some midwife, somebody was there. Then, my grandmamma said, “No, we going to the hospital”. My daughter was born at Native Angel.

	B:	So, how did you all get from the neighborhood to Washington High School? M:	Well, we rode a bus then. I had Miss Green. She retired, passed. Reverend

Knight. They would come down in that way right by my church and turn around and then go back up [inaudible 29:02].

	B:	Who were some of your teachers from Washington when you were there? M:	Who was who?

	B:	Well, what years were you at Washington? M:	In the [19]50s.

	B:	Who were some of your teachers?



	M:	Miss Lewis was never my teacher no more, and I graduated from her. I was kind- of scared of her, but she was a wonderful teacher.

	B:	Was Dr. Wiggins there at the time?



	M:	Yes, he was there. If you name some of them, I can tell you. A big old coach. We had a gym.

	B:	Was Leroy Anderson there at the time? M:	Leroy Anderson, the musician? Uh-huh.

	B:	Was Sheppard? The band director, Ray Sheppard?



	M:	Right, and one of my girlfriends married the teacher there. He was shot. If I can think of his name…





	B:	Mercer?



	M:	Yeah, my husband’s cousin was a teacher there. Marshall. I don’t know his first name, but I know his last name was Marshall. But, anyway, I’m going back to Washington High. If you can think of some of them.

	B:	Were you taught by any of the James sisters?



	M:	I can’t think too far now, but I know them when I see them. B:	Like Lily James Frasier?

	M:	None of that. That’s downtown people. That wasn’t the country people. Now, Bellhead, Olive, and all them [inaudible 27:16] went to Washington. Now they had them other schools the children went to. A.A. Dixon and all that kind of stuff. I didn’t never know too much about them schools.

	B:	So, in the [19]50s, what types of things were they teaching you at Washington?



Did you take Home Ec or–?



	M:	Home Ec, cooking. I’ll never forget that. I made a meatloaf. I’ll never forget that meatloaf, and you put cheese in it. Then, we did some sewing. Then, I took band for a minute or two. I was kind of like–still is–an all-around person.

	B:	So, the Washington High School band was really sharp, though?



	M:	It was. And that’s who I hung out with with the football players. Remember, they was named the Tigers? Wasn’t it the Tigers? That big old cat thing.

	B:	Wildcats.



	M:	Washington was the outgoing name back in the day, and I think that Pine Forest still carrying their name. I’m not for sure.

	B:	What do you remember about the band?





	M:	Oh, just a few, because I sung in the chorus, stuff like that. Maybe I was, what they call it when the class end like one grade to another, you can change to whatever you want to do.

	B:	What would you say is your fondest memory about growing up in this neighborhood?

	M:	Well, I tell you one thing we had that nobody never had thought about. We had a drive-in theater out here. He passed away. He married a [inaudible 25:30]. It’s up here on Diamond Dairy Road. But he had something you could drive your car, have a drive-in theater, and go there and look at a movie.

	B:	How much did it cost to get to one?



	M:	I don’t know. Dr. Altman can help you with that because I had really forgot all about it, but I remember because he had a lot of land too, and where I was doing the club work, that was some of his property. On that curb when you come around where that big brown building, that was his property.

	B:	So, can you tell me a little bit about your time working as a domestic worker?



M:  Domestic worker? Okay, I was a home maid. This man had eight children, and he had me to help his wife do maid service, the cooking, the cleaning, going to the store, getting the food, and stuff like that, and I was just a maid.

B:   How old were you at the time?



	M:	I had to be grown on up. I was grown enough to work. Then, I did some maid service for–excuse me for [inaudible 24:19] the White–for the White people. You know you didn’t take no taxes out on that. You get like a dollar a day, dollar an hour, something like that. You wouldn’t make much. So, then I went back to that





Horne guy, Charles Horne. He was a mason. He was retired. He taught my children how to lay brick, and then a lot of these peoples out here that live in Wedgewood how to lay block because he tooken his up in George Stone.

	B:	His name was Mr. Horne?



	M:	He lived in this area, but he came from Bellhead. That’s where they would come across that creek, and they bought a whole lot of land. They start building it, cleaning up property, getting old blackjack roots, and digging them up from the ground. Those children were a hardworking family. Yes, they was. We just sit back wondering.

	B:	So, this is the Horne family, you said? M:	Mmhm.

	B:	Now, were they Black or White?



	M:	He passed away about two weeks ago. Ain’t quite two weeks. It was the 18th of June.

	B:	So, was this family Black or White?



	M:	They were Black, but they came out of Bellhead. B:	And, you worked for him?

	M:	Yeah.



	B:	He was a brick mason, you said?



	M:	Oh yeah, while he laying bricks, then I run his club almost a year. I worked up until Halloween. Right up to almost a year.

	B:	What was the name of the club?





	M:	Well, we used to call that place The Yoke. Like that thing that cows wear on they shoulder. He had one of them big wooden things across the top of the building. This man had to move the thing, and that’s what he had and everybody called it, The Yoke. That’s been fifty some years ago because I had a child that year, and I had had to walk a mile to the club morning and night, didn’t own a car.

	C:	What was it like at the club?



	M:	It was nice. I cooked, cleaned, all that kind of stuff, [inaudible 21:47]. I did it all.



Then, I go back to the Wedgewood area.



	C:	When you think about those days, what stands out in your mind the most about how it’s different now?

	M:	Oh, it’s just a lot different. Plenty of things to do, plenty of activities because I come here. I don’t know when I started, but I’ve been coming here for senior citizen for years, when they almost started almost. I’ve been a patient in here, not a patient but a class member, for so many years, and I just took a turn. After my husband passed away, I turn around and come back, but I was going when he was well. When he took sick, I had to take him over until he passed. He passed in September, so I stayed home. And, once in a while, I started coming back. I just came back, and they were glad to see me back for a minute or two. But, my health is getting kind of bad.

	B:	Is your husband the one who would sell the greens across the street? M:	Uh-huh, that was my husband.

	B:	Where did he grow them or he used to get them from?





	M:	Alabama. He would get up early in the morning, and he’d call on the phone. You know, phones came up–what year I don’t know–but phones came up, and he would call them and have him so many potatoes, so many collard greens, so many turnip greens, stuff like that. He’d call them on the phone that night or that morning. They will have them ready, and all you got to do is go and pick them up.

	B:	I mean I saw him posted up out here until maybe last year was the last time I saw him?

M:  He passed. Well, he come down sick before 2018. He passed away in [20]18, so he kind of slowed up on the [20]17. Mmhm, it was on this corner here. You kinda backwards. He had a white truck, gray truck.

B:  How long did he do that for? How long was he the–I think they maybe called him the Peanut Man or Collard Green Man?

M:   They called him the Green Man. That’s what they called him.



	B:	The Green Man! [Laughter] So, did he used to travel around the neighborhood, or he was always posted up and people would come to him?

	M:	Now, sometimes, he said they had to come to him. He never would do that. I said, “How about going out of town sometimes?” No. He didn’t want to do that. He wanted to get his set up right there. He’d take them out, wash them up, keep them cool until the peoples come, sell out. Sometimes he’d go back and get them again. Go back and get his second load. He would sell them just like that. He would end up retiring and got his license to sell.

	B:	And, they were big, too.



	M:	I mean big old collard greens. You don’t see them no more.





	C:	Was there a lot of farming in this area?



	M:	Oh yes, child, don’t mention that. I had an aunt had me planting sweet potato, peas, dropping everything. See, I was our [inaudible 18:14] girl. My other cousin was the kitchen girl. I never did learn how to make biscuits.

	B:	She was the kitchen girl where?



	M:	There was two of us. See, one daughter had one girl, and the other one had another girl. She was older than me, so she was always in the house.

	B:	Oh, the kitchen girl in your household?



	M:	Yeah. She was always at grandmomma’s house doing the cooking. I’d be in the field planting sweet potato, vines, peas, corn. We had our own everything: meat, hogs, cows. We had it all, our smokehouse. The only store we had was way old Palafox. It’s an old store, and the store still there. It’s off of 29. Just as you go over the bridge when you get on old 29, you go over the bridge because the bridge going under the hill, interstate. So you ain’t too far from that grocery store on the right hand side.

	B:	What was the name of it when you were–



	M:	Gainer’s. Gainer’s Grocery Store. That’s the only grocery store was in this area until they got one down in Brent. They had a Hick’s Grocery Store down there on Brent Lane down there.

	B:	But, in the meantime, you all would just grow your own things? M:	Grow our own things.

	B:	When you would do the hog, did it take a lot of people to do it or–





	M:	No, it didn’t take many because my aunt always lived downtown working till retire. There was two or three of them working together: my grandmother, and then a sister, [inaudible 16:19]. So, everybody chip in and feed the hog. We did, when I was big enough, feed the hogs. We had our own chickens. We had everything.

	B:	Is there anything else you want to add?



	M:	I’m trying to get it together. The Wedgewood area. Yeah, them people what came from Alabama, they come with cow, hog, and all that kind of stuff, farming, cotton. Oh, I didn’t mention to y’all about the cotton.

	B:	No. They brought cotton from Alabama and planted it here?



	M:	Well, they planted cotton, the Sols, and they did sugar cane. Had a cane mill, and my grandfather come down to Mr. Sol’s and make his syrup. You don’t know what that is. Put a hose to it, and that thing will go round and round.

	B:	I’ve seen it before.



	M:	It ground cane, and it cook it. Put it in a big old pan, and you cook it and stir it and stir it until it makes syrup.

	C:	That is delicious syrup. M:	It is.

	B:	And, they used to do that out here? M:	Uh-huh. Down in the Sol Quarter.

	B:	It was called Sol’s Quarter? Because they owned so much land out there. Can you spell it for me?

	M:	I think it’s S-O-L, however you–





Be:  Now, I know there’s a Surles. There’s a S-U-R-L-E-S.



M:  No, Sol. One of them ladies, Savage and stuff like that. Savage and Sol–all them people is related, so, when they come, they brought a generation with them. And, they started from there in the fields. Everybody had hog and mule.

B:   So, they basically brought that whole Alabama–



M:   Yeah, they brought a lot of that [inaudible 14:07] here.



	B:	How did the people receive them? How did the people in the neighborhood who were already here receive the people from Alabama?

	M:	We just received them some kind of way they did, but they came. And, they came in swarms too. [Laughter] Yes, they did. They the one made this here place because it was more of them than us. So, we didn’t have to buy nothing from them because we already owned it because my grandmother and them they owned a plantation theyself over on Hope Drive. My granddaddy made cane, farmed. He did all that.

B:   On Hope Drive?



	M:	On Hope Drive. Then, he had his vegetable stand. People come there and get their black-eyed peas. He go out there in the butter beans, and she would do the milk and, quite naturally, the chicken. But, he had his part farming. He was a farming man, Reverend Baker, retired minister.

	B:	What was his church?



	M:	Now, he was Baptist. He retired from St. James Baptist Church. It’s out there on Olive Road. It was in the conversation the other day, talking about his name is up there on the bulletin board, but I’d always thought of him because my





grandmother was always working. And I’d walk, walk. Then he had another one up in Gonzalez, another church. And the Johnsons. Don’t forget the Johnsons. He owned a whole lot of land, Bud Johnson. We got a street named after him.

	C:	So, was your grandfather minster of your church?



M:  Of his church. They was Baptist. St. James Baptist Church. C:   And, is that the church you were a member of?

M:   No, no, I’m Methodist because my grandparents were Methodist, so I just went on with them. I would visit his church, but, long as I was in Lincoln Park, I would follow him and go to church and walk all the way to Gonzalez. Y’all know where Gonzalez at?

B:   Mmhm.



	M:	You do? Well, we would walk the railroad track. I thought about that the other day. [Laughter]

	B:	I know it was a long walk because it’s a long drive. So, let me ask you, what do you remember about funeral traditions here?

	M:	The funeral? Well, I remember this old man, Joe Morris, when he was living, that was my grandmother’s friend, and all she had to do was call him. Go to jail, she called Joe Morris. You getting out. They didn’t have all this old mess they got now.

	B:	Like a bail bonds system?



	M:	Like a bail bonds. Didn’t have to worry about it because he gonna get them a ham when Christmas come or whatever like they do, stuff like that. Mr. Joe I





know done [inaudible 10:59] a little bit. But we always been with Mr. Joe Morris all our lives. We weren’t nothing but [inaudible 10:51]. Both my aunts.

	B:	So, when someone passed away, do you remember if they would just do the funerals at the church, or did they ever do them at the house, or–

	M:	Well, back then, they used to do wakes at home because I remember my uncle’s wake was at home in Brent. That was my aunt, my grandaddy’s sister, the one that had the dairy. I always wanted my wake at home, and I was coming up, stuff like that but …

	B:	So they would do the wake at home, and then Joe Morris would come and take the body. Did he come with the horse and carriage, or was he using cars by then?

	M:	No, I just remember cars. Cars come up then. Now when they start coming up with cars because I remember my grandmomma had an old car. Oh gosh. [Laughter] I don’t know what year it was, but you know ladies used to couldn’t by a car. A man could go buy it for her, but ladies couldn’t buy cars. You gotta look that up.

		C:	And, that was a law or that was part of the custom? M:		That was a custom. That was a law.

	C:	It was both.



	B:	So, how do you remember the race relations being back then?



	M:	Well, it was fine because we had White friends that lived maybe in some old houses in here. I remember an old man used to live in this area somewhere. He was real old, and then I remember another Black guy stayed out here. Well, he





stayed in Lincoln Park, old broke-down house. I can remember a lot of things way back, but they communicated together. We didn’t have this race [inaudible 8:54] back then. Wasn’t nothing like that. If it was, I didn’t know nothing about it. People was peoples. People was neighbors, real neighbors, like the preachers preaching now. People was really people. They just done got so irate now because it’s terrible y’all have to [inaudible 8:34].

B:  Well, some people have said that they notice that our city’s race relations changed for the worse once those Alabama folks start coming. You know, Whites.

M:   You think so?



	B:	I don’t know. I’m just repeating what I’ve heard older people say. That when the migrants from Alabama came here, that’s when things started to change.

	M:	Maybe the White people from Alabama? It could’ve been. But we always worked for them. We worked for them, so we didn’t have no problems.

	C:	One more question–When I think of Wedgewood, I think about the trouble with the landfills and the pollution and the health effects–

	M:	Oh my God. Don’t mention that.



C:  –and the environmental racism and what strikes me is how similar that story is all over the country. It’s the same story. What I’d like to have a better understanding of, because I’ve read newspaper articles, is how it was in the [19]80s, how it was in the [19]90s, just that progression in the last few decades.

M:   About the clay pit?





	C:	Yeah, how it changed. What are the important parts of that story that people should know about?

	M:	One thing was smelling it. That’s the main thing. It was smelling a lot, and then people coming out and they be saying, “What is that?” You’d come through the area like early in the morning and go out and that fog would come up and then– see that lady right there? She was a Savage. She stay across that. Now, she come here probably with Mr. Old Man Savage. When he came in here. I been in here before her, but she might be older than me, you know whatever. But, they came here. But, anyway, as far as that clay pit, it took a toll to Wedgewood. Just completely took a toll. We thought it was gonna be nice, but, after a while, it’s just, oh Lord, because I’m right there at it. When we had our county commissioner, Junior, it’s a hole right in front of my house, and I asked Junior, “Junior, what you gonna do about this hole?” He said, “Ms. Dot, I can’t do nothing about it because you don’t own the land. They own the land”. That hole is still there with all them mosquitoes bushing in front of my house, side of my house.

One day, we bought some property. He can’t use it. I still ain’t taping out here. I don’t want to call nobody names.

	B:	Yeah, you can tell the story, but just don’t say the names.



	M:	He won’t clean it up. It’s next door to me. He blind and can’t see. I don’t know. B:	So, do you believe that people got sick?

	M:	Yeah. I sure do because I have a granddaughter that was born down in there when that thing blowed up. My son, they live in Wedgewood now, but they were living right there by it. When that thing go up, my grandbaby was having





problems breathing right today. My husband had trouble breathing. My husband died of lung cancer. My son got cancer, and I don’t know what I got. [Laughter] But, I never was no smoker one thing.

	C:	You said that something blowed up?



	M:	Yeah, something caught afire up under there. See, that’s what they talk about. It was chemicals, and, after chemicals meet with chemicals and it’s like this hot, that stuff gonna blow up. Then, when it blow up, it’s just shot all everywhere.

	C:	And, do you remember when that was?



	M:	No. We don’t know because we been fighting this case a long time. People [inaudible 4:18] now. That’s him going out now. He done been home because that’s his robe when he go out. Oh, my phone power is off. I can’t check it though, can I?

	B:	No, you gotta wait. Well, who are you looking for?



	M:	He probably knew the name of that school where we were going. C:	We can stop the recorder and turn it back on.

[Break in recording]



	B:	I wanted to hear more about this church because you said he founded it. It’s Little AME Zion? It was founded by one of your grandfathers?

	M:	Uh-huh. My aunt. Mr. Lee’s grandmother. She married a preacher.



	B:		And, he founded it? Because you were talking about how they used to just meet under a tree. That’s what I wanted to talk about.

	M:		Well, I can explain it because I was young, nine, like that. You know children go to church with they grandparents, so that’s how this went on and got John and





my cousin. Now, my cousin just passed. His grandmother married a preacher, and they came. His daddy came from New Orleans, so they came back home from New Orleans over here. But, he don’t really history of how he got rode up, but Ms. Martha Knight, she was a Knight. But no, I told you it was two sisters, Mrs. Martha Knight created that church. She’s on the headstone. I think it was 1942. I think that’s what on the headstone.

	B:	On the cornerstone? M:	On the cornerstone.

	B:	Where is the church located?



	M:	Down Rolling Hills. When you get to the dead end, make a left, and it’s going to be on the left hand side. White church. You gonna see one church, but that ain’t it. That Liberty Peaks or whatever. But mine’s on down by the curve. When you get to the curve, you done went too far.

	B:	And, it’s Little AME Zion? That’s the name of it?



	M:	Greater Little AME Zion. But it started off with Little Zion. Little AME Zion. B:	And, how long were you at that church?

	M:	All my life. I started Sunday School, treasurer of the church now, and then president of the deaconess.

	B:	So, was that church made to serve the Methodist population out here since you know there are a lot of Baptists–

	M:	It was the only church out here. See them Alabama peoples come in and built their own church.

	B:	They were Baptist mostly?





M:   They were Baptist. They started little too, but they have a bigger church than us. It was more members. Our church was more of like a family church. All the kids, the Jones and us, the Evans. Some gone. Some done gone to other churches of they choice.

B:   Was there anything else that you would like to say before we close?



M:   No. I really just enjoyed talking with y’all bringing my remembrance back. B:  Thank you for sharing.

C:  Yeah, thank you so much. M:  I’m doing the best I could. C:   Yeah, this has been great.

	B:	So, I’m gonna get the names of these folks. I’m gonna copy these names down. M:	That’s his mother, Mr. Herbert Lee.

	B:	Alright, thank you. [End of interview]







Transcribed by: Dewin Anguas Barnette, May 14, 2020





Audit-edited by: Sandra Romero, December 17, 2020





Final edited by: Sandra Romero, January 12, 2021