AAHP 680; Coleman and Arnold; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 680 Coleman and Arnold 7-6-2019 Interviewed by Paul Ortiz on July 6, 2019 117 minutes | 40 pages



Abstract: Lifelong educators, Ethel Wingate Coleman and Julia Martin Arnold reflect on their lives, education, education, careers, and continued community involvement.

Coleman’s family owned Wingate Beach, which used to be a segregated beach for Black people, since 1898. Born in 1941 and 1931 respectively, both women describe their schooling in Pensacola, Florida during segregation. Coleman explains earning bachelor’s degrees in nursing and drivers’ education and a master’s degree, and Arnold explains earning a master’s degree in education. After describing teaching during segregation, Arnold and Coleman reflect on being among the first educators to teach in integrated schools in Pensacola. Then, both women discuss their immense community involvement post-retirement. Coleman describes her prolonged involvement with the Retired Educators’ Association of Phi Delta Kappa, her high school reunions, her church, advocacy for children with sickle cell anemia, and the district association. Arnold describes her involvement with the National Council of Negro Women and the Association for the Study of Classical African Civilizations, with whom she travelled throughout Africa.



Keywords: [African American History Project; civil rights; education; Jim Crow; integration; National Council of Negro Women; Pensacola; Phi Delta Kappa; segregation; Wingate Beach]



AAHP 680

Interviewees: Ethel Wingate Coleman and Julia Martin Arnold Interviewer: Paul Ortiz

Date: July 6, 2019



	O:	My name is Paul Ortiz. I’m here with Mrs. Ethel Wingate Coleman and also Mrs. Julia Martin Arnold. And we’re here at the Chappie James Museum in Pensacola, Florida. And first of all, ladies, I want to thank you for giving me so much of your time to do these interviews. So, Mrs. Coleman, you’d like to start with some of your life history.

C:  Well, I’m Ethel Wingate Coleman. My parents were John and Ethel Wingate. They owned Wingate Beach way back in—I think it was—in 1898. And I was born in Gulf Beach Highway, Pensacola, Florida in 1941. And I was the forth child of eight.

[Phone rings]



	C:	Let me turn this off. That’s my son calling. Anyway, I have one son. I lost three during the time that I was working. My son, [inaudible 00:01:03], he’s forty-one now. And living, I have my oldest sister, Rosie Reynolds, my oldest brother, Alby Wingate, then my brother, John, my sister, Gladys Wingate, and then my sister, Linda Green—Wingate Green. I was born eighth in 1941. During the years that I was coming up, I was growing up in Warrington along Gulf Beach Highway.

Later, we had Wingate Beach, where we all family worked, and we had other family members to work there as well. And I attended Julie Andrews School in Warrington in elementary. And then we attended Washington Junior High School on the West side of town. And then I attended Washington Senior High School. That’s where I graduated in 1959. Then, after I finished in [19]59, then I worked







remote warehouse. And then, I did a kick of taking care of other people—you know, working in the home, taking care of other people. And then, during that time, I decided I wanted to give that up and start going to school so I could have a job one day. So, I attended Washington Junior College. I finished there in two years. I got my AA degree. Then, after I left there, I went to Florida A and M University. I think it was—let me see, what year was that? I finished in 1959, so it must have been 1960. And then I graduated after four years, but I took up nursing. I have an RN nursing degree. When I finished—before I finished—I got a teaching degree, as well. So, I have a nursing degree in public health, and I worked in public health in the public health department in Pensacola. And then, while I was at Florida A and M, I took drivers’ education. I just wanted to have a job so I could do some work. In case one thing didn’t work for me, then I knew I had something else to do. So, I took drivers’ education. I was the first woman that took it in Tallahassee. And then, all of the men, they were just looking at me and laughing, saying, “Why do you wanna do that? We don’t have no ladies drive.” But anyway, I did it. I graduated. When I finished Drivers’ Ed, I had a A-average in drivers’ ed. I did everything I was supposed to do and paid for all of the tests.

And then, I was in nursing. And then, I decided I wanted to do something else. So, I took education [inaudible 00:03:46]. I took Drivers’ Ed, health science, and some other classes, so I would have another degree. So, I have a BS degree in nursing, and I have a BS degree in education. Then I have a master’s degree from Troy State University, and then public health and two other areas. I didn’t write all that down. ‘Cause I didn’t work in my master’s degree, ‘cause I was







teaching. I taught at Ransom High School for Integration, and I stayed there two years. Then, I went to Strasburg Tate High School, and that was 1968, wasn’t it?

	A:	What?



	C:	When we integrated. A:	[19]69.

	C:	[19]69. Okay, well I was at Ransom until [19]67-[19]68. Then went to Tate. I worked there—well when I retired—it was thirty years between the two schools. After that I started getting involved in other activities. I’m in the Retired Educators’ Association of Phi Delta Kappa. I was a [inaudible 00:04:44] for five years—for four years, but I had to do two for another member ‘cause he got sick. And Phi Delta Kappa is a sorority for Black educators. They’re just educators.

And I’m still a member, and I’ll be fifty years coming up soon. I’ve done forty-eight now. In two more years I’ll have fifty years there. In my high school, I graduated from 1959, and we just had our sixtieth class reunion at Saint Joseph’s—the Parish Hall—just recently, this weekend. And we had to get acquainted, we had the banquet, and then we went to First Corinthian for our church service, and then we went to Ridgewood Park for our picnic. So it was really a very—I’ve had a very good year. Only thing, during the years that I worked, I had a lot of medical problems come up. ‘Cause I was teaching, and I really shouldn’t have to be in there, but I lost three babies while I was working. ‘Cause I was teaching drivers’ education. The men didn’t want to have to go out on the road. So, I had







to go out on the road. And during the time, I was eight months pregnant, and they wouldn’t let me leave the school, and I only had two more weeks to go. And then one of the students started driving. We were on Pine Barks Road, and a truck was coming. And I told her to start pressing the brakes. She hit the gas. I had to hit my brake on my side, because it was—during that time you had a break on the side, but I don’t think they do that now. When I got to school, I started having pain. And then I ended up losing the baby. And it was stillborn and buried through a memorial funeral. Then, I got two more pregnancies, and I was on the range again. It was about three months, and one of the students said, “I see, Mrs. Coleman, that guy blinking.” So then, when I came across the range, I honked at him, ‘cause he wasn’t supposed to drive across the range. And I didn’t know that I was having it, because I just felt hot. And then, when it happened, I had told him to go up there and tell one of the men to come so I could go to the clinic. And then, I lost that baby. Then, again, I got pregnant again, and then, after that, I lost that one too, ‘cause I was so involved in that driving and doing things and all that heat out there. Those men just didn’t want to do it, but they didn’t force them. But then, after that, I’ve done a lot of things in the sorority. I was a bachelors for four years. And I have material here that I did things, but I’m active in the Retired Educators. I’m active in the District of Escambia County, with the district. I’m active in my church. I sing in the same choir. I teach in [inaudible 00:07:39] school, and I work with the kids. And I do a lot of things. But, like I said, right now, since I’ve had three heart attacks, and just recently, last year, I had another one ‘cause I went through all the stress. And doctors tell







me—’cause I’ve got six doctors—they said, “You’ve got to slow down, now.” And so I said, “Okay.” So I’m doing things, but I’m [inaudible 00:08:02] since fifteen. I was age fifteen. My daddy was born—There are pictures of Wingate Beach. This is a picture of Wingate Beach, here, that you see right here.

O:   Oh, yes. Could you tell me about Wingate Beach? I’ve never heard of this.



	C:	Okay, Wingate Beach was a Black beach, and my daddy—it probably was owned by my grandfather, and they started to have the property in the [19]50s and [19]60s, but the grandfather started in 1898. That was a long time way back there. That’s when he decided that he could swing that beach. Anyways, we were the only Black-owned beach then. And then, later on, they got Johnson Beach, and then we had two Black beaches. But then the hurricane came and tore up our beach. I think it was in [19]72 or something like that. But my mother took over the beach when my daddy died in 1959. He had a heart attack. So it runs in my family. But anyway, I’m blessed to still be here. Well, like I said, I do a lot of things in the community. I’m active in the sorority, I’m active in a church, and I’m active in the district association. It’s a lot of things that I do. So, you can give me a break and go ahead and talk to her.

	O:	Thank you, Mrs. Coleman. Mrs. Arnold, can you tell me about your educational background and growing up?

	A:	Okay. I was born in 1931, Pensacola, Florida. And when I was four years old, the Lutheran Church was here—you know, they had a church for Black folks—and school, and of course, that was a private school. I don’t know what they had to







pay, probably twenty-five cents or something. But anyway, I went there at four in a one room schoolhouse. And the children there were from primary to, I think, sixth grade. And after they finished the sixth grade they had to go to seventh to continue their education. But while I was there, they didn’t put up with no foolishness in the school. Either you behaved and went by the rules, or you were hung. So I wasn’t no toddler. They didn’t have no lunchroom. The water fountain was outdoors, down about that low for the children. I did very well. I learned the Bible verses, and you have to recite ‘em and tell where they are in the Bible. And the next year, my momma was so proud of me. She called me to have people coming in with me up till then. “Tell me what John three sixteen is.” And I’d tell her. I knew all that stuff. So, she thought they oughta put me in second grade.

Well, I wasn’t old enough to be in the first grade. She sent me a special bill as five-years-old, and my teacher was Mrs. Julia McCurty. And she started letting me help the children, ‘cause I knew all of that stuff they didn’t know. So I say I started teaching school when I was five. Okay, so I went to Bensal Beard [00:11:35] School in first grade, and I stayed there through sixth grade. And I always liked to be up on the stage doing my little parts, speaking and talking, all that kind of stuff. I loved school. We played school at home. ‘Cause children were outdoors. We didn’t have no air conditioning. Nobody had no air conditioning. If they didn’t learn their lessons, you done had the paddle. You didn’t learn you lesson, you didn’t know that, I’d pop you. My mom said, “Look, you not grown, and you’re not supposed to be whipping on nobody. So, don’t hit no more of them children. Or those teachers will put that board on your ass, too.”







	C:	They’d put you down. [Laughter]

	A:	So, one day I was teaching school, I said, “Now, don’t say nothing when I hit you.” Somebody hit me. I said, “You aren’t supposed to hit the teacher.” It was my momma. So I ain’t whipped nobody else no more. And the first grade—I can tell you all of my teachers—first grade—what?

	U:	There’s your phone.



	A:	Always telling me to take my medicine. That’s my niece, Ann Caliper. Okay, she gonna make me forget what I was trying to tell you. I was trying to go in order. I didn’t know I needed to do this, ‘cause I got a family history book I did about that thick. I could’ve just gone through that. Anyway, first grade, I had Mrs. McCurty. Second grade, Mrs. Francis, who was the sister to Chappie James. And then, third grade, Mrs. Purdue. Fourth grade, they took fourth grade and third grade and put em together, ‘cause there weren’t enough students per teacher. So, Mrs. Jackson was my teacher in the fourth and fifth grade. I was wanting to get out of her class, but unh-uh, they kept them same children together two years. Okay, and then, I went to sixth grade, Mrs. Marilyn, and I already remember her trying to teach us fractions. One-sixth plus one-sixth plus one-sixth plus one-sixth make one. That didn’t make no sense to me. I learned how to do it, but it didn’t make sense. We used second hand books from the White children’s school.

Sometimes the pages was out. They wrote all in ‘em. But those were the books we had. At the end of the year, we had to pay for book damage, and my momma







would have a fit about that. So, when I got into sixth grade, Mrs. Marilyn was my teacher. We were going part the day. We didn’t go all day. So sixth grade we stayed all day in Mrs. Marilyn’s class. And then the seventh grade, when you passed to seventh grade, then you had to go to Washington High School, which was across town. ‘Cause I went to Spencer Field. I didn’t have my book card saying that I had paid for anything that I had flawed or lost. But in sixth grade, my sister and I were separated. She went to Mrs. More. The older children went to Mrs. More. The younger ones went to Mrs. Marilyn. I had to stay home. My sister and I had to keep the twins—my momma had twins—and so one of us had to stay one day, but I was going to school then another day. My seatmate, when I was watching the girls, one day she took my geography book. So, Momma said she wasn’t paying for no geography book. When I got over to high school, said Dixon, who was my teacher, that I had to have it before I could come into that school. So she asked me, “Where is your book card?” And I said, “I forgot it.” I thought I would get away with that. And she said, “Well, bring it tomorrow.” I don’t have one. So, tomorrow, I come and I said, “I forgot it.” She said, “Let me tell you something, don’t you come back to this school no more until you have got that book card.” So, then I had to tell Momma. She had to go down there and get that book card. In the meantime, my sister had gone—Mrs. More repeated almost all of the children in her class—Momma took her out and put her in Lutheran school. And these Washington children, they were going there, too. And she saw the book. My seatmate had taken my book, but my name was in it. So, she got that book away from that girl, and I took it back when I went to that school. Right







there, I could’ve not gone to public school. So, Mrs. [inaudible 00:17:09] was my homeroom teacher. And then, Mr. Hitch, eighth grade. And we were taking cooking, and Mrs. Milk didn’t take no stuff off of you either. She gave almost all of us D’s that first six weeks, and he said—and he put his foot up there—“You mean I got a room full of girls, and nobody here can boil water?” [Laughter] Mrs. Milk didn’t play. None of my teachers played. We had to learn how to do a meal for a family of four. That was a group project. And then we had a single project. You had to make mayonnaise, and then you had to make a pie. Well, my mayonnaise came out alright, but my pie had too much extra stuff, so I had to make an extra pie. You gotta take it up there to her desk, so she can inspect it. While I was up there, somebody stole my pie—my little pie. And I said, “Somebody got my pie.” So, after a while, Mrs. Milk said, “Nobody’s leaving out of this room till that pie is back on that stove.” And they was all [inaudible 00:18:40]. Finally, the pie came up. So, then, that was that day. Then, I went onto this room. Mrs. Smith taught me economics. And I knew Mrs. Goo [00:19:08] go with that pin and that skirt. So I put it in the back. So when we got up there she said—she was talking to us all—she said, “Come here.” She flipped that skirt right around in front, said, “Now, you gonna always have this problem. Your waist is always gonna be smaller. So you gotta learn how to alter your clothes.” And I happened to have on a pleated skirt. She showed me how to take all those little pleats loose, and she was gonna lap ‘em in like that. And I learned how to do that—not as good as Mrs. Goo. Mrs. Goo was strict. I came to learn. So, that’s the sixth grade. And I’d go to sixth grade Mrs. Mather. And I told you about her







trying to teach us pranks. It was Mrs. Low, when I got to high school, that she taught math so I could understand it. You subtract this from this and that makes that a ten, and all that kinda stuff. That don’t make no sense. With Mrs. Low, I took geo-math. We had Algebra from Mrs. Jones. That was my homeroom teacher. She was a very quiet lady, strictly business. She didn’t play. And so, I got my sixth grade, seventh grade, went through high school. Mrs. Williams taught me [inaudible 00:20:22] and accounting. Mrs. Burnham taught me typewriting. We had four typewriters. I thought it was six, but Mrs. Burnham told me it was four. We used to line up. It was just this little bitty room just probably this size. ‘Cause the typewriters were on this side, and we were on that side, and her desk was back there. And so, I took to typing, took shorthand. The teacher let me use her book, ‘cause I didn’t have no book. Mrs. Opine Williams. I got a big award for my shorthand, all that stuff. So, by the time I got into twelfth grade, Mrs. Jones was still my homeroom teacher, ‘causes he took us from ten to twelfth. Then, they had started a junior college for the White kids. Must have been in [19]48. Somebody donated a building down on [inaudible 00:21:58] for the White kids to go to junior college, but we didn’t get no college. So then they went to court, and then we got junior college. We really never had a junior college here, ‘cause we had in the high school building in the afternoon. I got a scholarship to go my first year.

	O:	But someone had to file a lawsuit— A:	Yeah, yeah.

	O:	—to get the—okay.







	C:	They did that.



	O:	Was that the NAACP?



	A:	No, it was local people, ‘cause of the doctor.



	C:	Yeah, it was local people first before any NAACP got involved. O:	Okay.

	A:	Mmhm, Dr. Boyd, Dr. Goon, I think. C:	Yeah, there was quite a few of us.

	A:	Minny Seabrook’s husband. I don’t remember all of the names, but they had to go to court. Then they said—in [19]49—they started junior college in the high school in the evening. The same teachers that taught high school also taught in the junior college. And then I know Mr. Hickum came here from somewhere. And most of those people were people that taught at Washington.

	C:	Right, they was.



	A:	In the daytime. They took part of their class load. Mrs. Frazier, Mrs.—Chappie James’s sister—she taught English, and all of the children were scared of her, but I wasn’t scared of her. ‘Cause she was like her mother, I guess, went to school here. They’d say, “Well, you don’t seem to be afraid of her.” I said, “I’m not afraid of her. She’s just like my momma.” My momma made you do what you was supposed to do, and you didn’t get away without doing it. So, I had good teachers. I can remember a lot of the things that I learned from each one of ‘em. I remember being in government class with Mrs. Print, and she told us, she said,







“You are a dignified people. You must demand that you be treated that way.” And she told us how a bill becomes a law and all that kind of stuff that the president don’t know nothing about. But anyway, I got through high school and then past thirty-six, I think it was, gave me one-semester scholarship. And I went that one semester. In between that time, me and my momma fell out because I went to Mardi Gras. I asked her could I go. I kept asking her. She never said no. So, when the time goes, we just got on over there. She was not very pleased by that. So, she—when I got back that night bout eleven o’clock—she wouldn’t let me get in. She wouldn’t open the door for me. I had to stand out there, me and my boyfriend there. So, then I stopped going to college, and he left and went to Ohio. At the end of that year, he came back. We went over to Mississippi, ‘cause my momma wouldn’t sign off so we could go and get married. ‘Cause I was eighteen, and you could go and get married if you was eighteen over in Mississippi. But my brother-in-law, he wanted to marry somebody his daddy didn’t want him to marry. But we got over that in Mississippi. Some man took us—I mean, he driving the car with us to go find the Justice of Peace and all that kind of stuff. So anyway, I stopped going to college. I wasn’t going. And then, I got married in December.

We went to date in Ohio, ‘cause that’s where he was working then and building a hotel. His [inaudible 00:25:55] pay was thirty-five dollars a week. Our rent was seven dollars a week. I made a budget ‘cause I learned how to do that at school. We made it pretty good. Then we got us a baby. Then we came back home to Pensacola. Then my husband said, “Julia, you really need to go on back to school, ‘cause if you go back to school, then we can live better. We’ll have two







checks instead of one.” And his mother, and his mother, and her mother—all of em—they said, “We’ll help you.” So I went back to junior college and finished up my work. Then I went to FAMU and finished up my work—business education. The people in Panama City—I did my internship in Panama City at Rosewood High School—and those children had come from schools where they had a typewriter to type the whole period, but I came from a high school where you type fifteen minute. So I couldn’t type like they could. When I got to FAMU, they had time-writing. You started that timer already. By the time you hear that girl over there, she done already turned the carriage. We didn’t have no electric typewriters. We had those blind typewriters. So, I was telling one of the teachers about it, and she said, “You don’t move your fingers fast enough. That’s the only problem you got. So if you will come at your lunchtime, I’ll be in the building machine room, we’ll type together. I don’t care how many errors you make, I just want you to go fast. And you wanna try to keep up with me.” That’s how I learned how to really type. So the teachers were always—they saw us as an extension of themselves—and so, they always wanna be sure that we got the knowledge that we need. And so, I finished at FAMU in the class of 1960. Came back. Dr.

Wiggins, Oliver Jude, came through the junior college. If you got through senior college, then he would try to help you get a job. So he told me, “We need a clerk, if you can pass the test, then you can have that job. But when an opening comes up here as education teacher, you’ll be the first one considered.” Well, they moved him away from that school, but they did get a vacancy, and I did get the job. So I started working as a teacher, teaching typing, economics. Lot of people







don’t like economics. They need to have that in the whole school from elementary on, so people will know how to deal for themselves with all of these things that money has. So, okay, I taught economics. And one of the things that I taught that I always, was insurance. I had my students to—I’d divide them up in some group projects and some individual projects, how much it costs to have a baby. And when we got through with that, one boy came in, he said, “Mrs.

Arnold, Mrs. Arnold! You know, I didn’t know it cost that to have a baby. I didn’t have no idea it cost,” he said, “I ain’t having no [inaudible 00:29:37] son!”

[Laughter]



	A:	But I made it real. I went to Wayne State after that. I went to Wayne State for a master’s program. They were holding me there so we could go to any schools we wanted to. So I put in for Wayne State, ‘cause my momma went there and I could go there in the summertime. And I went to Wayne State and got my masters in education.

	O:	What year was that? A:	What year was what?

	O:	That you went to Wayne State or that you received your masters? A:	I got my masters in [19]70.

	O:	[19]70. 1970.







	A:	Yeah, I started teaching in 1960 in the high school. I also taught [inaudible 00:30:26] shorthand—which don’t exist no more—at the vocational school. And I taught typing at night at the junior college.

	O:	Mrs. Coleman, I wonder if we could go back to you to talk about, when you were growing up, what role did teachers play in the community?

	C:	Well, during the time that I was coming up, a lot of the teachers, they suffered to it, whenever they needed. Well, they helped the kids that needed help. They was in school, and they was making low grades, and they wasn’t doing the things that they should’ve done. That was way during the time before integration. Then after integration, they had students making low grades, like D’s and F’s, and wouldn’t be able to go to college or anything like that. So, some of the teachers—the older teachers, not the younger ones—they would try to help those kids. ‘Cause I know I did a lot of—not substituting, but—I did a lot of tutoring.

	A:	Tutoring.



	C:	But it was after school. I had to stay after school to do it, ‘cause you couldn’t go to the parents’ home. And it helped the kids a lot, and then, when they was able to go back and start making A’s and B’s, well, that was during the time that they was in school, but they had to have help when they were making D’s and F’s, ‘cause they wouldn’t be able to get a job or go to college or anything like that. So I was one of the ones that helped teach ‘em. And I still have kids. I have two girls at my church whose mother and daddy is having problems. One is fourteen. The other is eighteen. And I take ‘em to Sunday school. I take ‘em to buy clothes for







‘em, ‘cause they daddy and mother have a lot of problems, ‘cause he called this morning. But I also help them so they can grow up and know what to do and not go in the wrong area and things like that, because they were not taught the way we were taught. These kids now are doing what they want to do. They messing with drugs. They doing all kinds of things, and end up in jail, and so they can’t work. A lot of the parents now that’s younger, they don’t train the children like we were trained. Because a lot of the parents are doing the things that they wanna do. So that’s one of the things that I did. I helped kids and now, being a nurse, I still do. I have to help take care of my sick family. They’re sick. And people’ll say, “Well, why are you doing that?” There’s no sense in having a degree. And eleven if I’m not working in that area now, people need me, and somebody has to help ‘em.

	A:	You got some knowledge.



	C:	That’s right. I have the knowledge ‘cause I already have the degree and I worked at the health department for a while. It wasn’t integrated then. And before I went to Tate. But I would go home crying, and my mother would said, “Why are you crying?” And I would tell her that they had me doing all the dirty work. I was working in the health department. And it wasn’t dirty, but it was like doing the things that the nurse should’ve been doing when I was just out of college and just into nursing. But I like having kids to be able to do things so they can learn to be something. I teach ‘em how to drive now. My grandson, I’m teaching him so he can be able to get his operator’s, and my other grandson, I’m teaching him next week. I’ll be taking him here to get a restricted license. But God blessed me with







my life—all those health problems I’ve had. I just thank Him every day. People say, “You don’t need to do this. You don’t need to do that.” But God says, “Take care of yourself.” As long as you’re helping other people, you’re gonna be blessed. And so that’s what I like to do. I like working with children or help adults do things. All the areas I have certified in, it’s not a waste.

	O:	Right. Mrs. Coleman, being a teacher is very challenging. What have been some of your most inspirational moments as a teacher?

	C:	Well, my inspirational moments after I started. When I first started, I was working at Ransom. I was working in the—inspirational—I have a nursing degree. So I organized a health club, and I got the kids working and learning how to do things to take care of themselves. I helped organize a clinic at the school. I think, Ransom was one of the first schools that had a clinic. And though, when I went to Tate, I was the first nurse that they had in the school, and the Superintendent said, “She can’t teach and nurse and take care of those sick people.” ‘Cause I used to go ride in the elements and go with ‘em to the hospital, but that was inspirational because the principal was really excited about that. But we didn’t have that then. It just happened when other schools integrated. I like helping students to do things, but I can’t overstress myself now, because I’ve had three heart attacks, and I had a lot of medical problems. So I just like doing things to help other people so they can learn to be faithful, they can learn the spirit—put God in their life, because if they don’t they could go out there and get in trouble. There’s so many in jail. My mother taught me well so that I would be able to do







things to help myself to help myself and help others. And that’s why I’m still here. I just thank God every day.

	O:	Wow.



	C:	And I think people appreciate me in my church and in the community. I’m active. I’ve got all these awards I received. I have done so many things. I’m educator of the year for—Well, this summer [inaudible 00:35:55] for my sorority, the Alpha Phi chapter. I worked—I was the president from 2013 to 2017. Now, we have another young lady, but she don’t like to learn from me, because the younger people, they wanna do what they wanna do, but they can’t. They not following the rules. And when they not following the rules, I call ‘em the Supreme dancers. One of the reasons, the regional directors will say, “Okay, I want you to talk to my [inaudible 00:36:18].” And then, when they do talk to her, she get mad and call, “Why you tell my people that?” Well, you got to learn the right thing. You can’t just do what you wanna do and then give people the wrong example. So I got all kinds of awards for all the areas I worked in. This is in the Phi Delta Kappa. And I worked in a church. I helped raise money for the district. I raised six thousand dollars and I became queen. I have pictures in here somewhere.

	O:	Wow.



	C:	I worked with sickle cell, that helps kids and families with sickle cell. I was the person in charge of taking care of the people. I went to call that—What’s the name of that called? It’s not public relation person. Anyway, it was a position I had working with sickle cell, and I worked with them. Then I worked with other







kids in other areas, too. And so, I’ve been active in doing a lot of things. And my degrees that I have, I’ve used them toward helping other people to do things that I need to do with it. You didn’t have to have a job, but God blessed me to have ‘em. And so, you just need to do what you can to help other people. And the kids now, they’re not doing the things that we used to do from our parents. Because the parents now just let the kids do what they want. They’re shooting people and killing ‘em. They’re doing all kinds of things, going to jail, and that’s sad. You kill. You see it on TV. It’s just sad. So, I like doing things to help other people to make sure that they’re going in the right direction.

	O:	Mrs. Arnold, you went to Wayne State and received your MA. How did your life change after that—after you received your master’s degree?

	A:	Well, I was already working in the school. ‘Cause in 1969, when they decided that they was finally gonna try to do stuff the law said for ‘em to do, then a lot of teachers were moved from schools to school. Somebody told me that. Somebody who went through the list and knew who they was sending from school to school, and I was one of ‘em. So, I went to Walter, ‘cause what I wanted more than anything was a school that was air conditioned, because Washington High School was not air conditioned. The heating was in the floor. We were up there by that sulfur plant, and when the wind blows, the sulfur comes in the windows and the children start coughing. I wanted to go to air conditioned schools. That was Pensacola Junior College, Wardum, and George Stone had just started to give up on that. We had gone to George Stone for the teachers’ meeting, and I knew they had air conditioning. Wardum had air conditioning. So, I made







appointment to go. Two people had already gone: Everdett and Bevelyn Baine [00:39:27]. So, they said, “Julia, go ahead and get an interview out there. So, I did. When I got there, this man had all of these teachers—it was about ten of ‘em—teaching business at Wardum. We had three. And so, they were sitting in on the interview. When he got through with his interview with me, he said to me, “Well, I understand only the inferior teachers are being moved around.

Consequently, you must be one of the inferior ones. So, I don’t think I would like to have you.” And I said—my momma came out in me—”Are you inferior at what you doing?”—’cause he was the principal of the school. “No, I’m not inferior.” I said, “I feel the same way about myself. So, if you think that I’m somebody that they wanna get out of the school, if you hired me, I wouldn’t be happy here, and you wouldn’t be happy here. So, thank you for your time.” So, I knew air conditioning was out of the choice. I called [inaudible 00:41:50]. “Oh, yeah, we gotta have some of ya’ll, so come on out here.”

	O:	He was a White administrator? A:	Mmhm.

	O:	Oh, okay.



	A:	Mr. Collin, bless his heart. So, he said, “I’ll bring you in for the interview.” We talked and he said, “I think I’d be happy with you.” He said, “You’ll be happy with me.” He said, “But, now, one thing I require is that all teachers go to the vocational association meeting in Miami every year.” I said, “Well, that’s not gonna work for me,” ‘cause I was going to Wayne in the summer time. “So I’ll be







at Wayne at that time, so I won’t be able to go.” He said, “Well, maybe I can give you an excuse for that.” He said—now, Imma tell you just what he told me—”I’m going to say, you gonna be working with a bunch of old country White women, and they ain’t gonna know what to do with you. And so whatever they do, you do. If they ain’t doing nothing, you do that, too.” And I said, “I can do that.” So, I got the job at Washington George Stone. And before I left George Stone, I was over at student council—well, they’re not councils—clubs. Then, I went into job placement. Then the principal died, and they got a Black principal, Mr. William, and he wanted student aid for the students that come to George Stone. They were gonna get student aid. So, he gave it to one of the smart folks, and they just put the book over there. They wasn’t gonna do it. So, I told him, anything I could do to help him, I would. So, I got that job. I studied it. Everywhere I went, I carried it with me. I went to all of the meetings. I learned how to do the job, and I did one thing at a time. I started Pell Grants, then supplementary. I didn’t try to do ‘em all at one time. I learned. And consequently, now, I got two jobs, but I’m getting one money. Then they got rid of him. Well, first I had a little bitty office. I said, Mr.

Grant, you gonna have to give some of this work to somebody else, ‘cause this is too much for me. So, the next day when I came, he said, “We done moved your stuff.” He took one of his big conference rooms and gave me that for my office.

Then the teachers, they were all, “What is she doing in there?” They was worried about that job. I was working that job and that one. I had—not unmarried—but anyway, we had no husband but children. I learned a lot from them about what







goes on. White kids and Black kids. But before then, I worked in White people’s houses. So, I knew a lot of stuff they did.

	C:	I did, too.



	O:	What did they do? I mean, what do you mean? A:	Hmm?

	O:	I mean, what do you mean? C:	We took care of other people.

	O:	Oh, yes. But how were they different? I mean, what did you learn about them? C:	They not different.

	O:	Okay.



	C:	They do the same stuff. O:	Okay.

	C:	For example, one woman from Oklahoma, I was working for them. And then, she wanted me to work all day when I had been working by the hour. But the people across the street—she bought a Hipsum refrigerator. I’ll never forget it. And those women in their community, they talked about that woman. “Where she get that thing from? Why blah blah blah blah blah.” Black folks do it, too. I didn’t find that they did anything as people than we did. They just had more to do it with.

But she didn’t know her husband bought a dog—paid fifty dollars for that dog— and he had twenty-five dollars for food to feed himself, his wife, and two children,







and me, ‘cause when I come, I get something, too. So, I told her, I said, “Tell him to give you the money, and we’ll go shopping.” So then they had—’cause this is what they had. They had eggs, bacon, toast. On special you had waffle. There was two or three more. Lettuce and tomatoes. They wasn’t eating right. Mr.

Smith done taught us better than that. I took her down to downtown, and we took that twenty-five dollars. They had fruit, they had vegetables, they had eggs, they had juice, they had grits, they had all kinds of food you need to keep your body strong. But then they go and cut my money and tell me that some woman used to work for them for three dollars a week. I was getting fifty cents a hour. I ain’t finna cut my fifty cents a hour down to them three dollars a week. So that was the end of that job. [Laughter] My life story is long. So, you want me to go back to something else?

	O:	Well, I wonder. I mean, both of you talked—these are really amazing stories about being a teacher. I wonder if you could talk about how being a teacher has changed over time? ‘Cause it seems like there has been some changes, even though both of you are still teaching in many different ways.

	A:	No, I’m not still teaching.



	O:	Well, but you’re teaching lessons. I mean, you’re teaching me right now. A:	Oh, yeah, right, right. You right. You right.

	O:	But how has that changed over time?



	C:	I think practically everything changed. I remember when I was at Ransom and we were segregated. And then when I went to Tate, things would change for







different, ‘cause they had different rules and regulations that the Black teachers would do. And then, you had to go along with that, and anything happened that the kid didn’t like, then they’d call you in and make an appointment for you to come in and see them. “Why did you do this?” and “Why did you do that?”—This kid’s saying this. Well, it was different, because they wanted to put the most stress on us, because you were supposed to follow the lead of whatever they told you in the meeting when we had the meeting in the afternoon. What you call that? Faculty meeting?

	A:	Faculty meeting.



	C:	And they had faculty meetings, but then, they had the principals to talk to you about different stuff, and people would tell them you been sending different kids to the Dean’s office, and they would report it to the principal and say, “Well, this person did this, and this person did that, and I wanna know why Mrs. Coleman had to send this boy to the Dean’s office. What was he doing? What was the reason for it?” Well, it was because they wasn’t used to the fact that they had to learn to adjust to us as we became integrated into another school. And then, once I learned what to do and what not to do, then the kids—I would stand up there and talk to them just like I was a parent, and tell them certain things so they could make A’s and B’s in the class. But if they didn’t listen to you, then they were gonna fail and get D’s and F’s. So, life had to change because of the different things that you had to do to help other people.

	A:	I could tell you a lot of stuff, but at George Stone, before they integrated the school, they took the groups—’cause the Black teachers had association, the







White teachers had association. Then they decided one year to have us all together.

	C:	I still work with ‘em.



	A:	Uh-huh. And then, before they would let us join that group, they didn’t take no dues, so anybody could belong to the group. Okay? Alright, some of them same teachers—Well, I went to junior college, ‘cause I saw they had business machines and I said, “Okay, well I can go out here and learn some more machines.” Then, when I got there, I found out the machine that they had, I had already learned how to use at FAMU. So the teacher was teaching two classes at the same time. She would come in there with business machines and tell them what to do and go over there and tell the [inaudible 00:49:43] folks what to do.

Well, when she found out that I was the Black one in there, with the first name, because she put me at the bottom. I knew what she had done, but I wasn’t gonna let that bother me. Then, they had a problem. They was doing problems. I can’t think of the name of it, but anyway it’s a one hundred, and then if you go to the store, and it’s fifty percent off, you gonna pay half of it, right? If it’s thirty percent off, you gonna pay seventy percent of it. I knew that. Those kids in that class didn’t. It was about ten of us in there. And I could never get in there before they got in there. I don’t know how they did that. [inaudible 00:50:29]. Okay, so, they didn’t understand that. I was just going on doing mine. So, then, they didn’t speak to me, I didn’t speak to them. We just was in the class together.

	O:	These are White teachers?







	A:	These are White students. O:	White students.

	A:	Right. White teacher, White students, White Pensacola Junior College. So, they said, “Now, you seem like you understand.” Now they gonna talk to me, ‘cause I got something they want. “Could you show me how to do it?” So, I got up, and I went over and showed ‘em how to do it, and she came in. She was so mad. But I bet you one thing, she won’t leave that class in there with me no more. Well, I’ve had a lot of experiences with that kind of stuff. And I tell you this one—this one may not have anything to do with it, but—I was working at Washington. I heard about a job. They sent me down to the college. So, we talked about the job, and the man decided that I could have the job. And then he said, “Well, somebody had already told me,”—he said this to me. He said, “Well, I tell you one thing about hiring women, and you’re the childbearing age. And as soon as you get a job, you get pregnant. Then, we gotta find somebody else to put in their place.” And I said, “Well, we don’t plan on having no children.” “Well, what are you doing to keep from having some more children?” But I was ready for him, because I had already heard that’s what he said. I said, “We probably do the same thing you and your wife do. What do ya’ll do?” He said, “Oh, you can go on. Go ahead. Go ahead.”

	C:	And you didn’t talk about it.



	A:	Now, he had no business doing that. I don’t believe he did White women like that.



But he don’t like to bother me no more. So, I enjoyed my work, and when I left







George Stone, after they got rid of Mr. William. And then they go run in my office. I done did all of that studying, going to all of these meetings, Washington D.C. up in the Congress, all of these places. You get the right information. They’d send me regulations every week, and I’d go about ‘em. I don’t do nothing else on that paper. Then, they gonna take—this little White boy coming in, he wanted to sign up for a girl that was in jail. And I said, “Who made you her agent?” “Well, he momma’s drunk. She stay drunk and drinking. She on crack, and she this and she that.” I said, “Listen, she gotta stay in the school six weeks before she’d be considered for some money. Her mother can come and her but not you. So, he goes and he knows and he calls somebody. He goes to the principal. Principal tells him to come in and tell me. “They said I can do anything I wanted to.” I said, “I ain’t no fool. I’ve been to these meetings. I’ve heard these people talking. I know if I do something wrong, they gonna put my name in the paper and all of that. A White person can do it. They gonna slap ‘em on the hand and say don’t do it no more. I ain’t no fool. If my name go in the paper, it’s gonna be something good. It ain’t gonna be because I was stupid.”

	C:	I’ve had write ups all the time about different things that I’ve done. ‘Cause I’ve worked, and I was client of the year working with the sickle cell. And then I worked with the—I had other papers I worked for. I was given recognition for a really power workshop at CAY schools. So, I went and did work in other schools and helping other kids through my sorority. And then, I didn’t intend to get no awards or nothing like that. I did it to help the kids. But it was something I wanted to do. And then in the retired educators, I received a—I was a volunteer for the







necrology chairman, which I’m still is. I send sick cards out, people that are dying in education. I’ve been working since I graduated, almost thirty years I’m in the retired educators. I just like to help people distributing books, for Christmas, gifts out, and doing things for other people. Like I said, when you get these degrees, you don’t have to work in it. You can just do things that you’re taught to do in that field.

	O:	Right. Mrs. Coleman, can you talk about the work Phi Delta Kappa does? Like the different projects?

	C:	Okay, well, we have different projects. Now, we just a [inaudible 00:55:49] scholarship. We give scholarships to kids that wanna go off to college, and we just give one. And I think we raised about three thousand dollars. So, we always give more than one. About a thousand dollars. We got one at FAMU now. We got one coming up in August where we giving another thousand dollars. But I have raised the most money in the sorority, because I’m out in public with people and I get to know people. I work in different organizations, and they support me because I support them. And so, I just say, “Well, I like doing things because people need somebody to encourage them, to support ‘em.” And we help. We just brought in six new people—six new young teachers—into Phi Delta Kappa.

They just come in in July—June. And then, they gonna be coming in. We gonna put them to work and train them how to be a leader and secretary and take out money and all that different stuff. Deborah—when I had my masters—Deborah Haynes, she just went to the national convention. I think it’s in—I think she told me—down in South Florida somewhere. But anyway, she just moved to there.







I’ve been in the sorority now since [19]72. So it’s been about forty-something years. It’s forty-eight years, but I’ll be hitting fifty years coming up this year and next year.

	O:	Wow.



	C:	That’s a long time. And then I’ve been in my high school class—we just had a reunion, and we just celebrated sixty years. I’m still here. But last year, two years ago, we lost eight members. The other day, we just lost a member. He was in a nursing home sick. But when you doing things to help other people in the sorority, you not in it just for recognition, you there to do something to get people knowing what to do in the education, ‘cause it’s a educational sorority.

	O:	Right.



	C:	That’s what we got. So, we kept those people that’s not in education to try to come into school so they can teach school and go to school and go off to college and that’s what we try to do. And so, that’s good.

	O:	For someone who’s just starting out now as a teacher, what kind of advice would you give them?

	C:	Well, if they just starting out as a teacher, then you need to encourage them, when they go out to talk to the administrator or you’re talking to your students, you don’t supposed to be rude and talk back to ‘em. Not the administrator. You don’t do that to the students. You try to be nice and kind an try to teach ‘em things that they need to know so that when they are taking the test and they don’t understand or you are giving them instructions, you gotta explain to them what







they’re supposed to do so that they can pass and be respectful. Otherwise, like I had problems with kids in the classroom. They didn’t like, ‘cause I was the only Black driver ed teacher, and a woman at that. But I told ‘em it didn’t matter, because as long as you in school and you’re teaching and you’re trying to help other people, it doesn’t matter about your color. God made everybody different color. And so, when He made that, then you supposed to do what you supposed to do. But I didn’t allow those people to talk back to me. When they did, I wrote ‘em up and send ‘em to the dean’s office, because you’ve gotta show respect, and you’ve gotta show respect to that teacher. It doesn’t matter about the color. Even then, I let them know you aren’t supposed to do that. So, when you encouraging other people, then you gotta keep from being upset. You gotta keep from hollering at em, and I’ve known teachers to holler at students—and I’m sure she has, too—and did the wrong thing, but they’re not supposed to do that. You supposed to be encouraging and try to get them on the right track. And that’s what I’ve done with my grandsons, and one of ‘em’s nineteen and the other one, I’m teaching him to drive soon. Help him get his license next week. But I like helping people do things so they can learn to be respectful citizens in the United States. Help themself. Don’t you agree?

	A:	Yeah. I had older—well, you had driver’s education, but I had the older children. C:	They were older, too.

	A:	Well, I know, that’s right. C:	Some of ‘em.







	A:	I’m thinking about high school. I’m not thinking about driver’s education. But I always tried to teach my children and to listen to what they got to say. I did that with my own children. You can tell me anything you want to as long as you are respectful. I’m going to respect you. I never got on a child in front of the class. I said, “We need to talk, and when we get everybody else working, we’ll go outside the door. It’ll just be me and you.” So, I enjoyed that. My children enjoyed it. I can tell you a story about a young lady. She’d come to school, and some days, if I called on her, you know, a question, she’d answer. Some days, she would get mad, and she’d just act up. And so I said, “I don’t know. I must be doing something that she don’t like, but I don’t know what I did.” So, “Okay, we gonna get everybody else started and me and you need to talk.” So I take her outside the classroom, and I said, “What am I doing that upsets you so bad some days?” She said, “Well, Mrs. Arnold, I’ve been raped twice, and I got pregnant twice, and I’m trying to make myself better.” She was very church-y. So the boys decided they was gonna get that church girl. When she’d go to work after school—after she’d come up there to George Stone, then she’d go to work—and the person over her told her, “If you don’t have much to do, you welcome to do your school work, but if you have something to do, you can’t do your school work.” She said, “Mrs. Arnold, I don’t know how you know, but every time I didn’t have time to do that work, you called on me, and it makes me mad.” I said, “Okay, well, let’s see what can we do about that. The days when you go to work, and you didn’t have time to do the work, when you come by my desk, you say, “Today is the day,” and go sit down. I won’t call on you.” I still hear from her.







	O:	Wow.



	A:	I still hear from a lot of my students. I had a student when the Black folks first got on the city council, one of my students, he said, “Mrs. Arnold,”—he was a city councilman. One of my students had worked—

	O:	What was his name?



	A:	Lester Smith. One of my students worked for the representative of Florida in Washington, D.C.

	O:	And that was?



	A:	Carolyn Wilson—she’s Chapman, now. She still comes to see me. Her family’s very close knit. They have a Christmas party, and all of them come together. She invites me to come to her party. And she just, she came here for her class reunion, and the same class that my older son was in. And she make sure she come to see me. She brings me blueberries. All of my students—I knew some of my students can’t stand me—but most of ‘em they [inaudible 01:03:54], because I treated them like they were humans. And we all had mistakes. I had problems with just a few when I went to George Stone. With all the children watching you. Black children wanna be sure you don’t give no special paper to the White children. White children be sure you don’t. So, they got children [inaudible 01:04:20]. I enjoyed my work. All our problems still be going to work, but when they started—after they got rid of Mr. Williams, and they gonna start running behind your head office, I let them have it. They went in that door with all of these forms that they had learned I needed to work, then wanted to come to me and







ask me how to do it. I left the books there. Read. If you read and go to meetings, you’ll learn all about it. That’s what I did. And when that boy came back up there a third time telling me what the principal said—principal not come down here— told me what he’d said, I’m on my way down there to retire, ‘cause I could retire. And that’s what I did. And they took, from all this to December, my first check.

	O:	Wow.



	A:	But then I called down to the state department, because I was going down there. She told me to listen, “They have not sent your paperwork in. Imma go walk it in, and you’re gonna get your money.” Suppose I didn’t have anything. Suppose I was one of those people who spent every dime I got.

	O:	Right.



	A:	[inaudible 01:05:36]. Imma leave school in August. I get a August check.



September, October, November. It was December.



	O:	Wow. To the very end they were doing that.



	A:	People just don’t do other people right. And everybody do something wrong. But when you find out what it is, stop it. That’s my theory.

	O:	Right, well, Mrs. Coleman—



	A:	Oh, I didn’t get a chance to tell you about—she was just telling you about her organizations. I didn’t tell you about mine. Okay. National Council of Negro Women. Are you familiar with that?

	O:	Oh, yes, yes.







	A:	Okay. Alright, it started by Mrs. [Mary McLeod] Bethune, Dorothy Height, and I worked under Dorothy Height. And I went to Washington, D.C. for all of the meetings. I met a lot of people from a lot of different—congress people, all kind of people. And I was the president of the National Council of Negro Women for twelve years. And I’ve been in the National Council I don’t know how long. In the late [19]70s I joined. Because of my being in that group, being with all kinds of people, all levels of people—presidents all the way back down—I learned a lot.

And I got a chance to go—all of my life I wanted to go to Africa. All my life. ‘Cause when I heard the stories about African people, it didn’t make sense to me even though I was a child. If the people were cannibalistic and you go over there and they put you in a pot and cook you and eat you, why are you going over there? That’s what I wanna know. The missionaries go. They show you the most desert. They don’t tell you about the good things they did. All about how poor they are, flies on ‘em all the time. Visuals, that’s what you see.

	O:	Right.



A:  But I went with a study group. The Association for the Study of Classical African Civilizations. Those people had done a lot of studying, and I learned a lot. I went to the pyramids. I went there twice. I wanted to cruise the Nile. I got to do that.

And then I went to Ghana. First, I went to Egypt. They put me in charge of when they started this stuff about people learning about other cultures. They gave me that job at George Stone. I loved that job. So, one of my questions was name four countries in Africa. And this one man got up, and he said, “Egypt.” And the woman got up, “Egypt ain’t in Africa.” I said, “Well, the last time I looked at the







map, that’s where it was.” [Laughter] And then somebody, “Well, it’s dirty over there. If it’s so dirty over there, where are all of these elephant going? Does that make sense to you? It don’t make sense to me.” So, I learned a lot. I learned a lot about America’s history that they don’t tell. Like the Statue of Liberty was given to this country because of the end of the Civil War, and the woman was a Black woman, but they decided they didn’t want no Black woman. So they changed it to White. And it was about the suffering that those African people had gone through, and because of the suffering, they gave that as a tribute to the Black woman for her children, her husband. That’s why that’s there.

	O:	Most people don’t know that.



	A:	No, they don’t know that. But I learned it back in the [19]80s. But now you can go on the computer and find people who talk about—White people—who said, “Why did they not teach us this in school?” Tell the truth about what it is. Even when you’re tired and weary. Now, their using the other stuff—

	O:	Right.



	A:	—down there, but I learned a lot, and I talk a lot. You can tell that.



	O:	Mrs. Coleman, Mrs. Arnold, I thank you so much. I know we’ve taken up a lot of time. Are there any closing thoughts, things you’d like to share, as we kinda wrap up?

	C:	Well, I’d just like to say, I think it’s a very good idea that you all are wanting us to give us a history of some of the things that we’ve done and in the sorority. And we have a lot of things that we do. We have zinos and kudos, and we have







people to come in—young people—so we can train them to be adults. And the youth, we have the youth that we work with. We have the guys that we work with at different times. New members that come in. We just got six new members. We have conventions that we go to, and I was [inaudible 01:11:36] for four—five— years, plus I took three years for another member because her husband was sick. I traveled all over the world to see other people and meet them in this sorority, and there are other things that I did, too. But our sorority has a lot of activities, and we just try to get young people involved, as well as adults and kids, and we have different activities that we have. Teach ‘em how to have sisterhood in their personal relationships. We try to teach ‘em. Teacherama, like different subject areas that we teach ‘em. We have leadership training. Teach ‘em how to be a leader. We teach ‘em how to work with other people in public.

And we have our Founder’s Day, and the Founder’s Day is for the [inaudible 01:12:21] so we can get together and go over what we doing today as far as how we came into it and teach the other people what you had to do and all of that.

And we had health and nutrition workshops and programs, and we have volunteers. I do some of all of it. Anthropo. My husband was a Anthropo. The men—husbands to the ladies in the sorority—and he passed away in 2015, but he travelled with me almost everywhere I went. He supported me with the sorority. So it’s a good thing that you have somebody to support you whatever you doing. Rather than some of ‘em say, “Well, I don’t wanna do that. I don’t wanna go there. I’m gonna do what I wanna do.” That’s not being together. It’s just being separated. But in the sorority, I’ve been in it a long time. It’s going on







eight years now. That’s a long time. I’ve been in my high school class—we just had a reunion, and it was sixty years.

	O:	Wow.



	C:	And you know, it’s a lot of people that don’t live. O:	No.

	C:	So, I really enjoyed all of the activities I do in the church, in my home, my family, my community, and every—my pastor’s telling me, “You’ve got to slow up now. You’ve got too many health problems.” But every day I pray. God is blessing me, because all of the things that I’ve done, all of the areas that I’ve taught, and all of the areas that I went through in college and getting degrees, it’s not for you to just take it and throw it away. It’s for you to learn teach other people. And that’s what I’ve done. And people get envious and jealous of you when you do stuff like that. They wanna say something negative, and even if she’s doing a lot of things, you never know what people are gonna think about you. Even though you might do it, they’ll say, “Oh, why is she doing this? Why is she doing that?” Well, you don’t talk back to ‘em. You just try to encourage ‘em. So, I enjoyed everything, and I’m glad that you asked me to come. And Deborah wanted me to come to talk about the sorority, but it’s a lot of things that we do in the sorority and all of the others have things that they do as well. You in a sorority?

	A:	No, but your organization, along with others, is affiliated with the National Council [of Negro Women].

	C:	Right, and there’s educators, too.







	A:	Hmm?



	C:	We’re educators. All of us are.



	A:	All kinds of folks, no matter whether you a educator or whatever you are, you were affiliated with the National Council [of Negro Women].

	O:	The National Council of Negro Women.



	A:	Right, yeah. The National Council [of Negro Women] is an umbrella organization, and those people. So we do that. And I worked with Kwanza. I love Kwanza, ‘cause you learn what your family did, who your family is, how they existed. And the children talk and one thing—I tell you this—one time, we were at different homes and do one principle every day, ‘causethere are seven principles. The seven principles is self-determination, which is Kujichagulia, but this was the first night. And this little boy said to me, he said, “Mrs. Arnold, I know we talking about unity in the family and the community today, but I don’t wanna talk about that. I wanna talk about the one for tomorrow, self-determination. Can I do it tonight?” I said, “Well, if it’s okay with everybody, it’s fine with me.” So he said, “Self- determination, since we’ve been doing these principles, I have decided that I will forever from now on, whenever I have a job, I will do the best I can. My momma and daddy, whatever they give me to do, I usually don’t do it, and they end up there finishing it. So from this day on, I’m gonna practice doing whatever job I have the best I can do it”—

	O:	Wow.







	A:	—“for the rest of my life. I’m gonna be determined that I will not leave my work undone for somebody else to do.” He was eight-years-old.

	O:	Wow.



	A:	He has his Ph.D., and he has a nice job down in South Florida.



	O:	Nice, that’s excellent. That reminds me of the eleventh commandment they say was taught here: “Thou shall not quit.” Right? That was the—

	A:	That’s right. It’s basically the things we should be doing about our family, knowing our family, knowing how we are to contribute from children to death.

	O:	Right.



	A:	And live that way. O:	Yes, ma’am.

	A:	So, I love my coins. I wouldn’t have them sold. The man who started coins so I would know if we were doing it right then.

	O:	Oh, yes.



	A:	I did that for twelve years.



	O:	Well, Mrs. Coleman and Mrs. Arnold, I’ve taken up a lot of your time. Again, I’m just very appreciative. Thank you so much for agreeing to come in and taking so much time out of your Saturday.

	A:	Only ask me to talk, ‘cause I will. [Laughter]







[End of Interview]



Transcribed by: Emma Donnelly, February 23, 2021 Audit-edited by: Sandra Romero, February 23, 2021 Final-edited by: Sandra Romero, March 18, 2021