AAHP 324; Brunache; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 324 Peggy Brunache African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Ayana Flewellen on January 11, 2014 46 minutes | 22 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 324

Interviewee: Peggy Brunache Interviewer: Ayana Flewellen Date: January 11, 2014



	F:	All right, so it is January 11, 2014 and I am here in Quebec City, Quebec, Canada. My name is Ayana Flewellen and I’m joined with Peggy Brunache, Dr. Peggy Brunache. Thank you so much for sitting here with me today.

	B:	Sure, thank you.



	F:	As I mentioned before it’s a very informal interview and we’ll just start at the top, when and where you were born.

	B:	I was born in Miami, Florida in 1969, to Haitian parents. F:	And did you live in a suburb or were you in the city—?

	B:	Miami at the time were basically little cities within a city, little towns within a city, and my area is still technically known as unincorporated Dade but I was just outside Opa-Locka, in North Miami.

	F:	North Miami?



	B:	Yeah.



	F:	And where were you first introduced or what was your first introduction to anthropology, archeology?

	B:	You know I don’t think I can remember an actual introduction, I was one of those weird kids that was interested in everything. I knew that I was always going to go into a science of some sort, whether it was gonna be astronomy and then I found out my math is not good, or marine biology, or studying the great apes or something. I knew I was always interested in science on some level, I would say my interest to become an anthropologist and therefore an archeologist came about after [Laughter] my dreams were dashed of me becoming a screenwriter.





And so when I couldn’t go away to Boston for school the way I was expected to, I just started taking more anthro courses locally, and it just felt right.

	F:	And this was in college, and you went to the University of Florida for undergrad or—?

	B:	Well yes, [Laughter] another side-line thing was that like I said I was supposed to go to school in Boston but in the end it turned out that my parents were never going to let me go to Boston, and in the end I didn’t understand they were never gonna let me leave the state of Florida. But I didn’t apply to Florida schools at the time, so I had to stay and go to community college before I could get into a Florida school, we weren’t good on communication at the time [Laughter], and so it was during the time that I was at community college, at Miami-Dade, that I started taking more anthro courses, and then when I applied for University of Florida I was fully embraced into the anthropology department.

F:  I ended up growing up in Miami myself, a lot of my peers even throughout the Caribbean, Haitian, Jamaican, a lot of their parents it was just, “We don’t want you going far away.” Is that just something that—?

	B:	It’s an aspect of control, but with my family—a lot of Caribbean families, and this is not particular to just Caribbean families, do like to maintain close ties with their children, especially because of the fact that their culture, your parent’s culture, is not the American culture at large. And so, with my situation it was compounded by the fact that we were extraordinarily dysfunctional, so my need to go had to do with—I just wanted to be away, I just wanted to get from under their thumb, and so during the time that I was at Miami-Dade and I decided I wanted to do





anthropology, I was actually applying to go to a lot of other universities like some of the top universities for archeology, I didn’t care what kind of archeology it was just gonna be archeology. So at one point, I wanted to be a Egyptologist I was the one doing American university in Cairo, another point I was gonna do Mayan archeology, so I was applying to University of Mexico City, Hawaii, so in the end when it finally hit me that “I’m not going anywhere but within the state of Florida,” then I applied there and then my focus became different.

	F:	And what was your—at Miami-Dade because you said you took a lot of anthropology courses there, what was the first class that really captured your attention? Since you were kind of hopping around, in terms of the course work— what was it that said “Yeah this is fun.”?

	B:	My brain didn’t really work that way, it’s interesting I knew I took anthropology course, you know introduction to anthropology, but the more I started learning about archeological investigations pretty much anywhere in the world I was interested in them. Which is why I had no problems with wanting to apply to Cairo and Mexico City or Hawaii, it was just the idea of doing archeology it was so different, it was so hands-on, and I felt matched my personality, which was quite different anyway, it was just being out in the field and doing something that was very different than the studies associated with being in a classroom full time.

	F:	And did your parents, peers ever have any commentary about you wanting to be an anthropologist? Everyone always looked at me sideways, like I was crazy when I said “This is what I wanna do.”





	B:	Yes, I didn’t grow up in a middle class background, it was working class, lower working class, and Haitian, which you have the stigma of you’re either supposed to be a doctor, or a lawyer, or an engineer right, those are your only choices. So anything else, even if it’s a science was not only frowned upon, but anthropology itself was just not understood, that’s not one of the ones most people could say they knew anything about. My father had no issues with it generally speaking, my mom, she had trouble pronouncing archeology, so she’d have to do two or three tries before she could get the word out. As for peers, I never got slack from them about it, because one, I never associated myself with anyone who was gonna criticize me for anything, I had no time for that mess. And for those that have always known me, well what else would I be doing, I was never going to do something that was typical, so it just made sense.

	F:	So you said when you got up to UF it was different, that’s the kind of word you used in terms of the anthropology courses—

	B:	Yes it was different because after the first semester or so I—within the first semester I was given the opportunity to work at the museum.

	F:	This is the Natural History Museum?



	B:	Natural History Museum right, and we fit we really fit. And my bosses saw a spark in me and they said “You really should consider doing Kathleen Deagan’s field school, that’ll really give you an idea if this is what you wanna do and we can see you like handling the artifacts and that you take great care and you study well but take the field school and see what happens.” And that was it, it was duck to water, I was in. It was hard as heck but I was a duck to water with it.





	F:	And where was the site? B:	St. Augustine

	F:	St. Augustine, could you talk a little bit more about that first experience?



	B:	Yes, we were staying at the Special Military hospital. This was a field school of 1990 and we were digging two sites actually, a cofradía site and the Ximenez- Fatio House which I hear still gives tours. We were digging in the backyard and then one across the street actually and it was wonderful. I was exposed to anyone who’s done work in St. Augustine, we were exposed to a wide range of cultural materials coming from all over Europe as well as the Americas, Mexican glazed wares and artifacts from Spain and Portugal and China, Germany all those types, as well as the Native American components over a wide breadth of centuries. It was fascinating, it was hard but it was fascinating, absolutely loved it.

	F:	And out of the participants that were there, were there many other students of color or students who were Caribbean?

	B:	There was one other Caribbean person, he was a crew chief, Riccardo Fernandez Sardina, his family was from the Dominican Republic and that was it.

	F:	And then coming from UF did you have a specialty that you knew you were gonna focus on in terms of your undergraduate?

	B:	No, no actually, actually not then, because I did the field school and was good with all the different types of artifacts from different areas and of course Florida has very strong tradition of Spanish colonial. I started to hear more and more about CRM and getting more experience. And so after field school, which was in





the spring of 1990, I decided to apply for CRM jobs and got one with University of Delaware Center for Archeological Research known then as UDCAR. That was an eye-opening experience, it was very different, whenever you do a real project versus field school where it’s so meticulously done with excavating the different layers or stratigraphy, it’s quite different when you’re on a cultural resource management project.

	F:	And that’s interesting because I know a lot of the current conversation, in terms of CRM, in the academy revolves around students not being pushed. At least at the University of Texas, there’s always a system so that students aren’t being pushed into looking at CRM, cultural resource management, as like a field [inaudible 11:52] versus us really being pushed to stay in the academy. Do you think that’s kinda shifted?

	B:	No. My situation was quite different. I’m someone that takes to be, to live in the margins. [Laughter] When I want to be in the center, I’ll let myself be in the center and be in the thick of it. But, much of the time I preferred to be on the outskirts and watching. And so, my connection with my information about CRM was not given to me by the department. Or anyone, or faculty per se. It was by people who had done field school with me, but had also done CRM and that where the conversation started. And it just sounded interesting, so they showed me how to apply and how to look, and that’s what I did.

	F:	Nice. And you mentioned some of the differences between CRM vs. I guess the field school experience. Could you go a little bit more?





	B:	Well, you know, field school it’s educational situation. You have several months, at least with my situation, to be meticulous about excavating the different layers. You don’t have months to focus on one area like that. CRM, you have that very specific amount of time to get a certain amount of work done. And cover, often, quite a large area. Especially if it was a phase I or phase II. So, you learn to think faster, move faster, and disseminate that information quickly and move on to the next part of the project.

	F:	How long were you in Delaware?



	B:	For the first time? It was that summer, just for the summer. And, [Laughter] and I took to it very quickly and very easily. And so, I had one more semester left to finish. And then I went back to Delaware and got a full-time job, and did CRM. Because at the time I did not feel comfortable with applying for graduate schools immediately after finishing my BA. There were some odd interdepartmental politics going on between grad students and professors that again, made me a bit warry. So I-I wasn’t sure if that’s what I wanted to do, and I wasn’t sure where I wanted to go even. I didn’t have that focus, I knew I’m going to do archeology but didn’t know exactly what. And really at the time, CRM was good money. It was, I was able to be free to--

	F:	To get out of Florida. [Laughter]



	B:	I got out of Florida, I was doing work, I was doing archeology, and I was getting paid for it. And it was very much like that wild cowboy lifestyle at the time. So, that’s-that was my focus. I wasn’t ready, I was not ready for graduate school yet.





	F:	Mmhm, Mmhm. And, you know, with the Society of Black Archeologists, you know, we have our numbers about the numbers—the current number of archeologists. Um, that we recorded. I’m sure the numbers, you know, are nowhere near. [Laughter] Back in the [19]90s, could you go into a little detail about how it was a Black woman who was in this field? Especially in the CRM at that time?

	B:	Um, I came across, let’s see. I did CRM from 1992, full time/part time, to 1998. I went completely full-time by 1991. Then I came across 1, 2, maybe 3 other Black—I can only think of two guys I came across doing archeology. And I worked for several different companies up and down the Eastern seaboard.

	F:	Can I get their names? If you feel comfortable.



	B:	You know what? I couldn’t even tell you their names. I mean they weren’t doing it anymore. One was an older guy. Kurt stopped doing it. They were just jobs for young adults at that point in time. That-they were just filling a niche. They weren’t seeing it as a career. So, no. It was just a short stint. I was the always the only Black female. You know, 98% of the time.

	F:	Mmhm. So then, what happened in [19]98? After that stay with your CRM? I should also ask, were you in Delaware the whole time? Or were there--?

	B:	No, I was up and down the seaboard. I worked—I lived in Delaware, but I worked for companies in Delaware, in DC, in Virginia, in New York. Yeah, I worked for a number different companies, full-time. The reason why I said it was only ‘til [19]98, that’s because I applied for graduate school and was accepted and began in the fall of [19]98 at University of South Carolina. I quickly, over the





years, I started to realize there was a ceiling for field techs. There’s only so much you could do. And I was always encouraged by my bosses to go into graduate school. They saw me as someone who took it seriously, and was more than just a field tech, and could see the bigger picture, and should focus on aspiring higher. So I was well supported that way.

	F:	And, when you were applying for schools. I guess what kind of factors did you keep in mind as you were picking out which schools you wanted to apply to?

	B:	By the time I started to realize I wanted to do graduate school, I knew I wanted to focus on people like me. And so I wanted to—I started looking at schools that had a focus whether it be just one professor on staff or the entire department needed to have some sort of African diasporic program or focus or some research, ugh, interests. I looked at universities like Florida that I’ve been to before, knowing well- I got one degree at Florida so if I did get a chance to enter again, I would have to stop at Masters and go elsewhere. So yeah, my focus was on universities that would support my interest in the African diaspora.

	F:	And the University of South Carolina was the hit? [Laughter] B:	Ugh, that made sense for me at the time.

	F:	And you stayed there for your masters? B:	Yes.

	F:	Okay



	B:	They didn’t have a PhD program at the time. F:	Okay





	B:	So what ended up happening was, was accepted in the program to work with Ken Kelly. I was very, I guess assertive, about wanting to work with him. Leland Ferguson wasn’t do as much anymore and Ken had interest in the diaspora, he had done work in West Africa and was doing more associated with the slave trade. So it wasn’t just that he was an Africanist, but he was also doing work associated with the slave trade, and at the time, our interests seemed aligned.

	F:	And was that your focus while you were there at the University of South Carolina? In terms of your Master’s?

	B:	My Master’s was—it was quite dry, actually. It just questioned associated with trade-God you got me thinking about things I haven’t thought of in ages-- we worked on a palace complex in Benin. And, I was just looking at issues of space, and how it was manipulated and interpreted within the palace complex.

	F:	And then, turning to your PhD, what institutes were you looking at? Cause you know when to the University of Texas [Laughter]

	B:	By then I had the same criteria, looking for people who would be supportive of my need to focus on the African diaspora, by this point I knew I wanted to wanted to work in the Caribbean, I wanted to do work in Haiti, but things were too unstable politically to me to really go that route, and knowing that it would be easiest to work with someone who was already in the Caribbean or going to be in the Caribbean and just do an aspect, you know, work with them on that project and use some of that data would be the fastest route to a PhD. By this point in time, there were Maria Franklin. I had gone to speak with her. I’ve known her for some years, so despite the fact that I was doing CRM, I was always attending





conferences like that. So I was already in contact with people doing historical archeology and those looking at issues surrounding slavery and enslavement and ideas of identity, and other subversive thoughts that haven’t really come across in my studies, in the late [19]80s and the early [19]90s. So, I just got in contact again, working with Maria Franklin would be a great opportunity. And, she seemed to agree.

	F:	And when you were, I guess, in terms of looking at issues of race, identity, were you able to do those kinds of—were you able to look at those topics while you were doing CRM work or was that something that only came about through your academics studies when you went back?

	B:	It was through academic studies. Funny enough, when I started thinking about it more and more while I was still doing CRM, I actually came up against some people who thought it was racist of me to want to solely focus on the African diaspora, as a Black person

	F:	Really?



	B:	It was really interesting. I woman I was working with in the field, who had her Master’s. It’s not like she was some supposedly uneducated person, but she said, “That’s quite racist of you to do that focus. How could you consider yourself a scholar to want to—your perspective would be skewed you don’t have enough distance in that manner. I’m of Irish descent. What if I just wanted to do Irish archeology?” And I was quite angry, and I was like, “Then that’s your fucking business, isn’t’ it?” And, I was quite defensive and was ready to go into attack mode. But, I thought it was bizarre that I was being racist, and that my





perspective would be skewed if I wanted to study my own people. But, it only made me want to do it more. And, again, I had known people like Anna, [inaudible name], Whitney [inaudible], Maria, for years before-for years before I considered going to graduate school. So, the more I was around them, when we bumped into each other at conferences, it only made me want to do graduate school and focus on the diaspora focus more so.

	F:	Did you ever find that, I guess, sentiments like that flowed more frequently than are documented in that kinda—in CRM on in conferences in terms of being told as a Black woman it would be racist of you to study this or that? Or, did particular individuals that had sentiments?

	B:	It was only particular individuals that at least said it to my face. If others felt that way, they were smart enough to not say anything to me, because again, I was quite confrontational about it. And that was always and aspect of my personality and I’m not one to back down from a fight. So, if you want to go there we can go there. So I don’t know of others that felt that way.

	F:	And in terms of you attending conferences, while doing CRM, do you think that’s something you see a lot of people involved in CRM doing a lot of archeology conferences?

	B:	Oh yeah. In CRM, you see it more so on the smaller level. Like, I used to go to the MAACs, The Mid-Atlantic Archeology Conference all the time. The MAACs are dominated, or at least was for the [19]90s, [19]80s and [19]90s, dominated by CRM people. I mean you see some here, but it tends to be more of a smaller focus on the regional level that you see that.





F:  Okay. So, you know, we’re in graduate school now. We’re at the University of Texas, Austin. Your advisor was Maria Franklin. Who else was a part of your committee at the time?

B:   Edmund T. Gordon.



F:   Gotta love Gordon. [Laughter]



	B:	Also, known as “T. Money” at the time. T Money Gordon. He was on my committee. Sam Wilson, who had done work in the Caribbean and elsewhere. Ugh, because I knew I would be doing the French Caribbean, I also had someone from the English Department, Jennifer Wilkes, to help me have a bit of a broader focus of French Studies. And of course Kent Kelly, whose project I ended up working on because, as I said, starting up on a brand new project was—with nothing behind me in Haiti-- was implausible. So, it was just easier to work with him on one of his projects.

	F:	I know that you mentioned having an outside focus, in terms of having someone from the English department. Did you find yourself pulling from other disciplines or other areas of focus be it spirituality or anything like that, when it came to your research?

	B:	Yes in a roundabout way, in helping—because the thing for me, is that I never wanted my work to be so archeologically focused that it couldn’t be absorbed by the common person. That’s something I’ve always disliked about academia, is that it can be so alienating for those who we really should be speaking to about this, and ultimately educating. So, there’s always an aspect of me that’s always





looking to see how to be inspired by other departments, other forms of studies, other language, really.

	F:	Yes. And then, what did you do after you went through the whole draining process, wrote the dissertation, what was the next step?

	B:	Mine was also, again, a little funny. Because, I got to the point where I defended my prospectus, I had all my work, I just needed—I did quite a bit of analysis on my zooarc stuff, because my focus was on identity formation, and enslaved women’s roles in identity formation through food in particular. I ended up—I got hit with a number of personal issues. I was getting sick, and some bad fibroids. My mother was dying, and she died. And never took the time to really process that; I just kept going. And then, met the man who was to become my husband, and so I just packed up and moved to Scotland where I would do my writing. But again, with all of the illness, my mother’s passing, getting pregnant, and then getting sick again, it all took its toll. And so, it took me a lot longer to finish writing, because of it. I left the States. So technically I started Texas, 2000, left in 2006, and then finished in 2011. It took that long to, as you know, once you have a baby

	F:	Yeah. Life is, you know—



B:   Right. And again, we were living in Scotland, and I didn’t have my family around, his family weren’t that necessarily hands on, so it was up to us to do everything. I didn’t, I couldn’t have my baby with my mother, or with my aunt or someone while I write. And my child was quite hands on, as a baby. So, it took a bit of time.





	F:	And while you were at UT, I guess just in terms of Black women who were there doing archeology, you had obviously your advisor, Maria Franklin, Brittney [inaudible] was also there, Paula Sanders was there as well. How was that?

Cause I know, I absolutely love—Currently being at UT, and working with Maria, and having [inaudible name] there, and having Jamie Scott there, and having these faces, in this field, as constant daily reminders that “Our numbers are small here, you know, but I-I see them. I see people who look like me.”

	B:	I-I loved it. I did love it, but if it wasn’t there, it wouldn’t have been a big issue for me because again, I’ve always been someone who has been different.

	F:	Yeah.



	B:	It’s just something I got used to, and my parents were very insistent. “Just because it’s hard, or you’re the only one doing it, doesn’t mean it can’t be done. So suck it up and get on with it.” So I never, I don’t know if that was a good thing or bad thing, I- there was never a need to see another face like mine. What I did was, “Oh thank you Jesus,” but it never held me back in any way. I don’t know if that makes sense.

	F:	No, it definitely does.



	B:	So, yeah I loved it. It did help make me courageous actually to say that I don’t think I would’ve. You know, there still a part of me that was until I was deeply in the program that, you know, I never wanted to play the angry Black woman card. I, to be honest, most people will actually listen, I’m not saying I needed to be, needed to play the Aunt Jemima role either, academically speaking but, I’m always paying attention to how and when people listen. And how that works, so,





there are times when I would be not as embracing about some of the really negative aspects about race. You know, for example, someone had to do work on enslaved individuals in the Caribbean, enslaved Africans, but not necessarily talk about the race and racism. Talk about race, but not racism. Does that make sense?

	F:	Mmhm



	B:	Like wanting to do that, and being at UT, it did help me be more confident, like, “No you can’t talk about race without talking about racism.” And the fact that we live in such a structurally racist society makes you feel that, to bring it up, is you trying to bring about something that is long gone that no one has issues with anymore. That has definitely been an insightful learning process. Um, that I didn’t necessarily feel before. Until UT.

F:  And, I know we’re fast forwarding, but turning now to your time in Scotland, I know you mentioned you still do quite a few things, in terms of teaching, you mentioned you teach a class now.

	B:	I teach more than a class, I teach quite a few anthropology. It’s okay of course I don’t tend to talk about it that often, I do long distance learning with the University of Alabama’s Anthro department where I create my own courses, and often use a lot of archeology as well as, other aspects of anthropological research to teach these courses. And it’s always, whether it’s introduction to anthropology or about transnationalism and diasporic movement, or slave resistance, like my last course, Anthropology of Slavery. It’s wonderful to constantly get to refocus my studies in a different way to reach out to different students.





	F:	And you, I know you mentioned also that you attend quite a few conferences in Europe as well, can you talk a little bit about--?

	B:	Yeah, I wouldn’t say quite a few. Historical archeology is not as, at least for what I do working in the Caribbean and looking at the trans-Atlantic slave trade, is not something you see very much in Britain, especially. But there is a society for Caribbean studies, and that’s where I tend to find my people. Again, it’s mostly historical geographers, and historians, and anthropologists, and sociologists, and some artists and what-not, but very few archeologists, it’s just not the focus--- the focus is different there. And though the questions, theoretical questions, may be quite similar, you’re seeing it coming from different departments than with that.

So, I’m now thinking about how to do a more collaborative work with those who have theoretical similarities with historical archeology and see if we can make some new bridge work.

	F:	Wow. And of course, in the spirit of being at the 2014 SHA, the Society for Historical Archeology, when was your first SHA experience?

	B:	Oh god, I think my first—it’s like I want to say Cincinnati? Cincinnati is the one I remember the best, which was 1996? But, I think I was at 1995, I don’t remember where that was. Maybe it was DC. I think it was DC, wherever DC was [19]94? [19]95? And, it was, I don’t know. I’ve always been quite comfortable at conferences, and because I’ve been going to so many regional conferences and with few people going from there going into the larger ones. It was an easy transition, you know? People were there to meet, and learn, and network, and





that’s what I did. I’m not terribly shy so I would meet people as I needed to. Yeah! Yeah, so it was fine.

	F:	And did you ever find yourself on any of the committees, here? Or just not your— [Laughter]

	B:	No, it’s not that it’s not my thing. Again, I don’t believe in doing something half- assed. And if I know I can’t really put my all into it. I don’t want to waste people’s time. So, when I was attending conferences, when I was in CRM, you know I wasn’t in academia at the time. So I could not truly contribute. And CRM was still on the outskirts, SHA in particular, is still dominated by academia attendance.

There’s nothing I could do there. And then, started graduate school, and focused on graduate school. When I could participate, I was gone. I was gone. I had moved to Scotland. And so I wasn’t able, in fact, Lester, which was last year, was the first one I had gone to in 10 years!

	F:	Wow.



	B:	In ten years, because during the time that I was still able to go, while I was writing, I did not—I needed focus on writing.

	F:	Yeah.



	B:	I need to focus on writing, and not go to conferences. I didn’t have that kind of money anyway. So, cause again, I was living overseas. So, now that I’ve finished and I’m trying to get my feet firmly back into historical archeology in the same way that other academics have been doing forever, we’ll see how much more I could do. It would be a lot easier if, you know, I had one of those typical tenure- track positions. But I don’t, and so, again, being my work is in a lot of different





ways. I’m not just an academic, I’m a culinary consultant, I’m a talking head for BBC on food programs as well as being an educator. And that’s not typical of junior faculty here, right? So again, and I’m overseas. It’s, so again, I’m on that marginal—looking in until there’s a situation where I can fully be in.

	F:	And what are you, I guess, looking towards for in terms of you getting back you footing and your grounding back into historical archeology? What do you see for yourself?

	B:	Finding a way to be much more inclusive with what I want to do in the Caribbean and see expand in Britain.

	F:	Mmhm



	B:	See it expand in Britain, I’d like that.



	F:	And do you see yourself going into academia or CRM or any of that, or—? B:	Well I mean I’m in academia now, but ugh, in the tenured manner?

	F:	[Laughter] Yeah like that, or?



	B:	I would not say no. But I am, and I am making, pardon me, I haven’t had a chance to do much publishing, but I’ve got, for sure two book sections coming out later in the spring. I’m [inaudible] is not here cause I could find, so I didn’t have to tell her “All right All right! That article I’ve been trying to get to you that dropped, you’re getting it—next week!” I’ll now actually be able to really mean next week for the first time and she not have to roll her eyes at me for the hundredth time. So, I’m doing all the leg work one needs to do, but knowing that the climate is quite different now, and in the UK it’s much harder. Because just by sheer numbers, it’s a smaller country, much fewer universities. So, there’s less of





a chance. The reality of things is that with the work that I do get, and with my husband’s salary, we live quite comfortably in the UK. We couldn’t do that even if I was offered an opening position here in the states, my family and I can’t live off that, we can’t. You know? [Laughter] Free healthcare, socialized healthcare is a good thing for us in a lot of ways, and we have a system that works. So again, I’m trying to juggle and manage a lot of thing and living and working in a transcontinental manner.

	F:	Yes. Well, do you have any final comments, or—?



	B:	No, I don’t. And I feel ugh, I hope you feel like you can ask my anything. My brain works quite differently in a lot of ways about the whole thing particularly looking with other Black archeologists. I love that there are others, I feel family in that manner. But again, when it wasn’t there I wasn’t, I didn’t feel like I was missing it. Does that makes sense?

	F:	Mmhm.



	B:	I’m so glad it’s here. I don’t want it to go away. I can’t say I felt lonely or I had any additional problems or anything. My support network was always my support network.

	F:	Yeah



	B:	So, I feel like, there’s. I don’t know if I contribute anything. My situation is just unique for a lot of different reasons.

	F:	I can relate to that as well. I went to the University of Florida. I was working under James Davidson. And, when we were at Kingsley Plantation, I think there was one other Black female student who was out there with me, but I mean like, my





experience within archeology has always been it is what it is. It’s predominantly White- it’s a predominantly White field, and then also you know, you come here and that’s what see at SHA as well. And it’s always great when you go to the National Council of Black Studies, or ASAALH. When you see all these Black people, that’s always great. But when you come here and you have like the five other faces that you see, it’s always great. But, you know, you definitely how to be the type of person who could make do without it, quite frankly very often you are—

	B:	Exactly.



	F:	without it.



	B:	Yeah, I mean, I’m the only Black face in School of Humanities at University of Dundee.

	F:	Mmhm



	B:	And when I mean Black face, I mean. No, there is one South Asian there. That’s it! You know? Staff of a lot of people—that’s it! That’s just—and I live in Scotland! Ain’t too many Black folk there anyways.

	F:	[Laughter]



	B:	So again, I make do.



	F:	Mmhm. Well thank you so much for sitting here with me. B:	You’re welcome. It was my pleasure.

	F:	I really appreciate it. [Laughter] Thank you. [End of Interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, May 30, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 24, 2019