AAHP 303; Welch; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 303 Joseph Welch

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Ryan Morini on April 29, 2013 2 hours, 41 minutes | 68 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 303

Interviewee: Joseph Welch Interviewer: Ryan Morini Date: April 29, 2013



	M:	This is Ryan Morini with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. It is April 29th, 2013. I am sitting here today with Mr. Joseph W. Welch. Thanks for joining me today. Could you please state your name?

	W:	I’m Joseph W. Welch. M:	What’s the W?

	W:	I’m from a family of two children, my sister and I. My date of birth: June 16th, 1922. And of course, I’m just a few days away from reaching my ninety-first birthday. My sister, who is the only sibling that I have, she is eighteen months younger than I. So she’s up in her eighties.

	M:	What’s her name? W:	Inez Bradley.

	M:	Inez Bradley.



	W:	Mmhm.



	M:	I see. So, where were you born?



	W:	I was born right here in Gainesville, Florida. M:	What part of town?

	W:	Porters Addition. M:	Porters Addition.

	M:	Okay. Was there a midwife there? Do you know anything about the circumstances? Were you born in the hospital, were you born with a midwife or something?

	W:	A midwife, yes.





	M:	Do you know who the midwife was?



	W:	No, but I can tell you this, now: I grew up in a family where my mother and grandmother was a seamstress. My father, he was a minister—in theory. But basically, he was a womanizer who ran around a lot. And as a result, he and my mother separated when I was a year and six months old. And at the time, my mother was carrying, or pregnant with, my sister. And even ‘til this—because he’s dead now—but even to this day, he had never laid his eyes on my sister in his life. And he hadn’t laid his eyes on me since I was eighteen months old. After I became an adult, was inducted into the Army, went over to Europe and whatnot, and came back in 1945, I was twenty-three years of age. I got my mother and said, “Well, I’m gonna go and look up my father and let him see what I look like now, since he hasn’t seen me since I was eighteen months old. I wasn’t able to find him because of the fact that he was dodging the police, actually—even though he’s a minister, now! Because now his brother took me to a church that he built himself, with his own congregation, with his name there on the cornerstone. And, of course, my uncle introduced me to the audience there and they’d say, “Ooh, that boy is just like Elder Welch!” But, he wasn’t really a minister. Wanted nothing to do with me at all. And he never did anything for me. As I said, I was raised by my mother and grandmother. Oh, and by the way, I lived in a house with an ex-slave for fourteen years—my great grandmother. She was born in 1852 in some part of South Carolina, and after slavery she migrated to Florida. But for her first thirteen years—in other words, in 1865, when slavery was abolished, she was only thirteen years old.





	M:	Wow. What was her name? W:	Margaret Veal.

	M:	Margaret Veal.



	W:	Mmhm. And she worked for the University of Florida in the Ag Department from, I believe it was 1907 until 1936. And she was known by all the authorities at the university as Aunt Margaret.

	M:	Did she get along well with—



	W:	And she was a very powerful person in Alachua County. I’ll tell you the reason for that: because she was one of the earlier Black property owners in Alachua County. And many times, she served as a bonding agency for people who were arrested and things of that sort. And she only had to sign her name, not put up any money or thing of that sort. I mean, even guys who had committed murder, she’d bond them out. And one of the things that I’d be interested in learning about her, for example, I would like to know her maiden name, because Veal was her married name. She married to Andrew Veal. And I have searched around and tried to go back to find that, but I’ve never been able to do so. Most the time, when I go back and do my research, I come up with my mother’s history rather than my great-grandmother. I’m interested in my great-grandmother’ history. I would like to know.

	M:	Well do you know—when she moved down here, was she married, or did she move down—from South Carolina to here, did she move with family?

	W:	She moved from South Carolina to Jacksonville for a period of time, for a short period of time, and then from there to Gainesville.





	M:	I see. And do you know when in there she got married, at what point? W:	No, I really don’t.

	M:	Okay. Okay.



	W:	But she had a very large family, and she and her husband they finally separated and he moved away. And during my lifetime, he lived down in Montbrook, Florida, but I never get a chance to meet him.

	M:	I see. So you never knew him, you only knew her. W:	No.

	M:	Okay. So what kind of person was she, then? Sounds like she was a pretty strong person—

	W:	Oh, she was, she was. Yes, sir, yes sir. [Laughter] And she was also strong on me, too, because I could take—for example, when it came to chores around the house, she thought that there was a boy, that he’s supposed to do all those chores. My sister didn’t have anything to do but sit down. I’d do all the chores around the house. And I’d better not complain about it, either! Mm-mm. [Laughter] If I did bug her, she did something for me.

	M:	Oh yeah?



	W:	Another thing about her, now: if she were still working at the university in the same role that she played during the time she working there, I would actually consider her as being a member of the faculty of the Ag Department. Because I tell you why: you would find her surrounded by maybe eight or ten or more White males, because it was an all-boys school. And they were getting the agricultural





theories in the classroom, but the practical application they received under her supervision out there in the field.

	M:	How did she get along with the students? W:	Oh, fine. Yeah, yeah.

	M:	And the officials around here and stuff? W:	Yeah, oh yeah. Just fine, yeah.

	M:	Did they ever come to the house to talk to her?



	W:	Yes. Let me see if I can count where this is now. Okay, on the east side of our present city hall, there was a Fiver State Bank on the corner, Duval’ Shoe Shop, McCrory’s Ten-Cent Store, Baird Hardware, and that sort of thing. A White woman by the—her last name was Balknight; I believe her first name was Susie Balknight. She was very wealthy. She was a close friend of my great- grandmother. And she would come down to our house. She didn’t live but about two and a half blocks from us. She’d come to our house, sit on the front porch with my great-grandmother, and they would converse for the longest. And my grandmother at the time would go off to her house and sit on her front porch. So, they were very close friends. Another lady by the name Mrs. Dean—and she was highly wealthy, too—and she was a good friend of my great-grandmother. So, Margaret Veal was something else!

	M:	[Laughter] I guess she was. Was she educated at all?



W:  Amazing thing: and I couldn’t understand this—she said she was in slavery until her thirteenth birthday—she could read and write. I mean, well! So evidently, her master must have—she must have been a member of the household, and her





master taught her to read and write. Because she spent a lot of time rereading her Bible and things of that sort.

	M:	I see. Did she have other books in the house? Or was that the main one?



	W:	That’s the main book. Yeah, that’s on the shelf, that Bible. That and attending church. You take, for example, I was required to attend church all day on Sunday. Every Sunday. You didn’t miss. You started Sunday school at about 8:30, and then there were morning services, and there were afternoon services, and there were evening services. You had to attend all of those services. And not only that: when it came to programs that children participated in, my sister and I, we had to be a part of that program. No doubt about it. It was no more than learning and saying a speech, or something, or being a part of a play or something and stuff.

	M:	Wow. That’s a lot of participation, then. Keep you busy. Which church was your church?

	W:	Mt. Carmel.



	M:	Mt. Carmel, okay.



	W:	And then, and getting to that, now: there were many children that came along during my time in my neighborhood. And out of all the kids that came up during that time, only three of us graduated from high school. I was the only boy to graduate. There were two other girls. All the others were dropouts.

	M:	Wow. What made them drop out?



	W:	That would have been a no-no for my mother, for me. Now, my sister was a dropout also, but it was because of the fact that fellow that you found sitting here





beside me the other day—she conceived him. Arago. And so, that made her drop out, too. But me, I was the only boy in my total community to graduate from high school. I graduated May 1st, 1942.

	M:	Why did everyone else drop out?



	W:	Well, I think it because of the low intellect of their parents. Because I heard many of their parents tell them, “Boy,” or “Girl, just as soon as you get old enough, you going get you a job.” And so forth. Pre-adolescence or something like that, they got a job.

	M:	Where’d they get a job?



	W:	And they were through with school. Or it would either be with the university, or around some of these farms, or something of that sort.

	M:	Just to get back to your back to your great-grandmother for a minute—you were living in Porters then?

	W:	Mmhm.



	M:	Okay. Where in Porters were you living?



	W:	I was living one and a half blocks north of the original Alachua General Hospital.



And right adjoining our property was the Gainesville Tourist Camp. And then another thing, too was amazing to me. [Laughter] I used to wonder about when I was a boy, “Why can’t I attend Gainesville High School?” Because, Gainesville High School? Only one and a half blocks from me! In other words, I lived one and a half blocks south of Gainesville High School. The original Gainesville High School. And I’d past by there in route going to Lincoln High School, on the other side of town.





	M:	That was hard to understand. W:	Yes.

	M:	What did people tell you?



	W:	Well, during that time, people just more or less were satisfied with their state. I guess they had been brainwashed to accept, they was willing to accept it.

	M:	So they didn’t think anything of it?



	W:	Mm-mm, no. Well, I’ll tell you this, now: you take, let’s see if I can recall the days of the Depression. My mother was a commercial cook. And therefore, she earned a pretty decent salary. Now, most other women who were domestics at that time, you want to know the prevailing wage to work for them, or salary? Two dollar, fifty cent a week. And there was a club at that time, known as the “Twentieth Century Club.” Now it’s the Women’s Club out on University Avenue near 34th.

Let’s see, that’s—anyway, now, their responsibility was to orientate newcomers to the city of Gainesville. They would get there and tell them what the patterns were around here; for example, this: see now, you have a maid, and you have to go and transport her and things of that sort? Never allow her to occupy the front seat along beside you. Sit in the back. Yeah, sit in the back. And don’t pay more than two dollar and fifty cent a week. That was the prevailing wage around Gainesville during the Depression.

	M:	But they had that set, that—?



	W:	When it came to my mother, well, I guess you could call her a domestic, but I don’t call her a domestic because, now, she was a commercial cook. She cooked at fraternity houses and things of that sort. I can recall in 1955, if you wanted a





new automobile, you had to place an order for it. And then, after a period of time, it would arrive and you could pick it up. At this time, she was working at Alpha Gamma Rho fraternity house. And the house mother bought a 1954 used car, like, one day. The next day, my mother’s new car arrived. And so, my mother drove it to work several days, and finally, the house mother ask her, “Rowena, whose car is that you driving?” She says, “My car.” She went, “Anybody who can afford a car like that don’t need to work on my job,” and fired her right there on the spot. [Laughter] Right there on the spot!

	M:	What did your mother say after that? W:	Hm?

	M:	Was your mother upset?



	W:	[Laughter] No. Because she moved from that to a new position. She became the assistant director of the Gainesville Black Recreation Center. And she worked there for a number of years.

	M:	Where was that?



	M:	That was on Northeast 2nd Street. And she worked at that until finally she developed breast cancer and had to have a breast removed. And they removed it, and she somewhat recovered. And finally, she begun to suffer pain and whatnot, and we took her to the emergency room. And there, the doctor informed my wife and I that, “Your mother have a terrible case of cancer. Cancer has permeated all of her major organs.” He said, “The only thing I can do is try to keep her comfortable.” Said at times she was feeling well; don’t inhibit her from going and things. So, “Let her go.” But to think about it, I had a problem with that,





because at that time I had a young son. She was crazy about my young son. She would get him in the car, because she had an automobile practically all of her life, and she would take off to places like Jacksonville and all this sort of thing, and take my boy with her. And in that condition, I didn’t want her to take my boy, but I couldn’t tell her not to do it. [Laughter]

	M:	Oh, yeah. Around when was that? W:	Hm?

	M:	Around what time was that? W:	1957. [19]57, [19]58. Yeah.

	M:	And so, what was your mother’s name? W:	Rowena. R-O-W-E-N-A.

	M:	Rowena Veal? Or what was her last name?



	W:	Well, she was married to my father, even though they had separated. Rowena Welch. Rowena Elisabeth Welch.

	M:	And your father’s name?



	W:	Abraham Welch, of all things! [Laughter] Abraham.



	M:	And then your grandmother’s name? Not great-grandmother, but your grandmother. What was her name?

	W:	My grandmother’s name was Gertrude.



	M:	Gertrude. Okay. And her last name? Was . . . W:	Was Veal.

	M:	Okay.



	W:	And then my grandfather, his name was Doc Willis.





	M:	Doc Willis. And so what—



	W:	He was Haitian. He was an immigrant from Haiti. M:	What brought him to Gainesville?

	W:	Well not Gainesville, he lived in Jacksonville. The thing about it, he became a pretty prominent individual. He used to operate a used furniture store in Jacksonville. I have pictures of him, but he was a very prominent-looking person.

	M:	Do you know why he moved to Jacksonville, what brought him there? Or—? W:	No, I do not. I truthfully do not.

	M:	Did you see him and your grandmother very often?



	W:	Oh, yes. Yeah, yeah, yeah. We used to visit him quite often. M:	What did your grandmother do? Did she do—

	W:	My grandma? M:	Yeah.

	W:	Oh she was just a domestic, herself. Not anything particular that I know of. But I can tell you how she met her death. They tell me that she was sitting on our porch—we had a porch that was about three and a half feet off the floor, off the ground—and she fell on the handlebars of a bicycle, and it injured her internally. And she died from that.

	M:	Wow. That’s rough. And that was when? Around what time was that? W:	Now, that was before I was born, I think. I believe it was.

	M:	Okay. So, you never met her? W:	No, no, unh-uh.

	M:	Okay, just your grandfather.





	W:	Yes—



	M:	When you went to visit him. W:	Yes.

	M:	I see. Did your grandfather speak Kreyol to you or anything like that, or did he only speak English? Or?

	W:	Well, he spoke English. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I can recall when he passed; now, I was in the Service, I was in Europe, during the war. And if you’re interested in knowing about my war record, I waded ashore on Normandy Beachhead on my twenty-second birthday; never forget it. You know, that occurred on December the—what was that? December—I mean, June! June 6th. Yeah, 6th June, [19]44. And ten days after that, I waded ashore on Normandy Beachhead. Now, that’s important, because I’ll tell you what: when we arrived on Normandy Beachhead, the person in charge of supplies and things of this sort didn’t know anything about us, didn’t know anything about our being there or whatnot. Our commander also was a West Pointer. And he was booking to become a general. He was a colonel, four-point colonel at that time. And I think they had the right to take their troops wherever they wanted to. Because, now, when we arrived on Normandy Beachhead, we couldn’t get supplies. Not even any food! We went without food for a whole day, and had to hike. And we had only ten miles of land between the Germans and the English channel that we occupied. Only ten miles. Yessir. And if those German boys had stiffened their resistance—[Laughter]—we’d have been in trouble! Because you take, for example, the most frightening time to me during my time in the service overseas was the Battle of the Bulge. That was





frightening. Because originally, you know what? The Germans were not taking any prisoners. If you were captured, they not going to keep you. Yeah. And that was a frightening time to me, boy. And then old General Patton came through! [Laughter] He rescued and stopped us. Because those Germans just all of a sudden, stopped man, and boy they gathered all their forces! And they were putting hell on us, on American allies. And that was a frightening thing to me.

Because, boy—! [Laughter]



	M:	But, so you had been—when did you go into the Service? Did you get drafted, or did you—

	W:	Yeah, I got drafted. In 1942. M:	So, right after you graduated.

	W:	Right. Right into the Service. And I spent only eight months in the States before going to England.

	M:	Where was your training?



	W:	Camp Cleveland, Louisiana. And we trained under some terrible conditions there, being a segregated army. Whenever we’d go on pass, to the city—the nearest one was Alexandria, Louisiana, or Glenmora, Louisiana—when it came time to catch the bus to come back to camp for reveille, all Black soldiers had to stand aside while they loaded up all the Whites. And after they loaded up all the Whites, if there were seats left, you’d have to occupy those seats. Or if not that— I mean, we’re all supposed to meet at reveille at the same time—you had to just wait. And oftentimes, we were late getting back to camp. Yeah. Because of that policy.





	M:	And they knew what was happening, but they didn’t cut you a break.



	W:	Right, right. And that became very important to me after we got overseas, because in here, we all—you’re White, and I’m Black. And when we went in the same uniform, representing the same country, and yet, we’re separate. And all the commanders and things, most of them, they all White. Even with Black outfits.

	M:	Do you remember any Black commanders? At all? W:	Black commanders?

	M:	Were there any?



	W:	Well, yes. There was a guy from Jacksonville, Florida. And he was a major, and he was Major Devaux. Now, his job was to go around and investigate our conditions under the segregated system. But, he would stand before us and the first thing, he would list off a number of things that if they bothered you, or you had problems with, he couldn’t do anything about it. And in the process, he covered all the—! [Laughter]

	M:	[Laughter]



	W:	—all the problems we had. So he couldn’t do anything. And somehow or another, he disappeared mysteriously. Because they found him dead. And they never found to this day what happened to him or who killed him, or whatnot. And he was Major Devaux.

	M:	Major Devaux. How do you spell that? W:	D-E-V-A-U-X.





	M:	Okay. Wow. What was it like to be segregated overseas? Did the people in the towns, the locals—

	W:	Now, I enjoyed the Englishmen immensely, because I tell you what: oftentimes they’d be switching between the Black and the White soldiers. And if you were a single Black and you got caught out here by four Whites, they might tear your tail up. But this Englishman would come to your defense. Or even if there were one of you, and four of us, he’d come to your defense. I like that about the English people. They wanted things to be fair. And of course, the problem mainly was the English women. Because you take during the whole time that I was over in Europe, I saw only one Black woman, and she was a Congolese from the Belgium Congo. And so, there were problems about that. To the extent, I tell you what, they would restrict your visitations. They’d let the Whites soldiers go to town tonight, and restrict the Blacks only to the post. Tomorrow night, they would let the Blacks go and restrict the Whites. In places over there. That was terrible. It was terrible. We were in the same uniform, representing and defending the same country. It was terrible.

	M:	Did any of the Black and White soldiers actually work together, or did that system kind of just keep them—

	W:	How’s that?



	M:	Did any of the Black soldiers and the White soldiers ever work together on anything, or was it just too separate?

	W:	No, we were totally separate. I can recall one time when we were in Liege, Belgium, we were converting an old cavalry station into an emergency hospital,





and we had a group of our general prisoners under our command to perform certain general duties that they had to perform. We were told that if anyone attempted to escape, to cut ‘em down. But we had an officer, he was White, name was Captain Sweitzer. We looked across the hill, boy, there were two or three German prisoners that we had running across there. And we could have cut ‘em, and he ordered, “Halt!” [Laughter] And we were not allowed to shoot them. So they managed to escape. He didn’t want to see the Black soldier shoot a white German prisoner. Yeah.

	M:	Did you ever hear about that afterward, or was that just—that was it? W:	Yep.

	M:	And so when was the first time you saw combat? W:	Combat?

	M:	Yeah.



	W:	I was in the general service organization. Our job was to maintain what we call the Red Ball Highway to make sure that the quartermaster outfits were able to carry supplies, equipment, and manpower to the front line. You know, oftentimes when the general would retreat, they would take and blow big craters and things of this sort, blow up bridges and things of this sort. My job, under fire, was to repair that. So we keep this thing open here so they can get supplies and manpower to the front line. I was in a general service outfit. Yeah.

	M:	Wow. That would’ve been—.



	W:	And I looked today, for example, in Armed Forces, do you know they have private organizations performing wartime duties for the country? Now, see during





World War II, you had general service outfits. And they performed those things. I think that’s more respected. And another thing: you take right now, it appears that eventually we going take and place our women in wartime situations. Where they’re capable of being killed or something! And I hate that idea. I don’t like that at all. During World War II, for example, we built the ASCZ, that’s the Advanced Section Communication Zone. That was the headquarters from which the war was administered. We had a lot of WACs and WAVES and things that came overseas there. But we confined them to a computer—not computer, typewriter. To a desk. They were not exposed to anything where they were getting hurt and things of that sort. Or maybe the nurses that would go up to the front lines and whatnot to rescue the injured and things of that sort. But I really hate that. But now, you got a few loudmouths, and they the ones that’s doing the talking.

Because the vast majority of women, they are silent. And a lot of these loudmouths talk, and they going have them out there carrying a rifle, I mean— and even in war. I think that’s terrible. I do not want to see my women—and when I say “my women”, I’m talking about any American woman; White, Black, blue, brown, green—I don’t want to see women out there facing combat! And how would you like, for example, being in the Service, down in a foxhole, with a White woman in the foxhole with you? [Laughter] Huh? Unh-uh.

	M:	When was the first—I mean, were you shot at? Or were you ever under fire?



	W:	No, no, no the main thing is we were exposed to the German V1 and V2 robot bomb. That was a very dangerous thing, and plus the fact, there were times when the Germans would come over and they would shower an area with fire.





Because I can recall, once, when we were building an airbase in which a battalion had been wiped out, and we came along after them to complete it. I was on this steel structure thing that you had to stand on it, and this thing lifted you up there and you bolt it in place. These were hangers for B-17 bombers. And the Germans came over and strafed us while we were building this thing. Yeah. And then of course, you know they were bombing England quite often. And the biggest mistake that the Germans made: if they had decided to actually invade England, that war would have gone on for many, many years. For many years.

Because that V1 and V2 bomber—that thing was something else. The V2 had a long stream of fire shooting out of the rear and it made a loud noise, you could track it. But when they came up with the V1, they had perfected the darn thing, and didn’t have that stream of fire behind the thing. You couldn’t tell when it’s gonna fall. And one of those things fell within a good half a block of where I was housed at one time, wiping out a Belgium orphan home and a British Soldier Headquarters. I mean wiped them out.

	M:	When was that? I mean, did you—



	W:	Now, I’ll tell you what you can do: you can be placed in a situation in the Service where you’d be willing to accept the possibility of death. Because you take, for example, I was in Liege, Belgium, living in an old museum. And there was a river right there by this thing. And whenever the emergency alarm would sound, we would rush out and get down beside the bed of the river. And on one occasion, that thing sounded, and those guys, being scared as hell, they stampeded coming down those stairs—because we lived on the second floor—with every





ounce of strength that I had, I had to try to hold on. Or if not, you could be trampled to death. I made up my mind, then and there, I said, “I’ll be damned if I will ever run again.” I said when I heard that siren sound, I lay right in my bed. I wouldn’t try. And said, “If I get killed, then I won’t be the only one.”

	M:	Do you think that’s an attitude that kind of stuck with you after that?



	W:	Right, right. And the thing kicking me: whenever I came back to the States and reached Camp Myles Standish in Boston, Massachusetts, and notify my mother I was on my way home for recuperation leave, a woman in our neighborhood named Ms. Hazel—she’d known me since I came into the world. She would tell my mother, “Rowena, now you make sure you keep those children quiet!

Because that boy been over in that war; he going be shell-shocked!” [Laughter] And say, “That noise will upset him! Any type of noise or things of that sort will upset him.” But it didn’t bother me.

	M:	Weren’t shell-shocked.



	W:	Well, I say I hate to see—I’ll tell you what I hate to see. Also, what’s going on right now: I hate to see it taking our seventeen and eighteen year old boys—well, I’ll say eighteen years old, boys—sending them overseas. And those guys, they’re coming back here mentally disturbed. They are. They’re committing suicide and all this sort of thing, doing crazy things. I really hate to see them take our young people. In fact, I’ll say right now, shoot. If they were having the type of war that we’ve been involved in the last ten years or more, and would draft me to go into the war, I might not go. I might refuse to go. I might prefer going to stockades rather than going to serve. And then send these guys to serve several





tours! Now, that’s something! I mean, you go into combat, then you come home for recuperation for a period of time, then right back into it again, and then repeat it. Now, that’s terrible! I’m going tell you something: war is hell. [Laughter] Yessir. War is hell!

	M:	I believe it. What was it like to come back to the States, then? When did you come back? How long were over there?

	W:	1945.



	M:	[19]45. Okay. Was that after the war was already ending?



	W:	Yeah. Oh wait, no, no. It hadn’t ended. We came back, and guess what? We came back and supposed to have recuperation leave for thirty days and we supposed to report back to camp. They going issue us new weapons, train us for tropical warfare on the other side. And it just so happened that—thank goodness—I think it was Harry Truman issued the permission to use that bomb on Hiroshima and whatnot. And that changed the mind of them—[Laughter]—of them Japanese, and so the war ended. But we supposed to come back. Spend a thirty day recuperation leave, and then go back and train for warfare over there. Because by that time, Blacks were acceptable in combat like anybody else. Now I have never flown in my life any place, and I never have any intention of flying.

But at one time when we were over there, if you were to volunteer for the ROTC, they would send you back to the States to train, and upon completing the training you were commissioned as a second lieutenant. And by the virtue of the fact that I was a high school graduate at that time, I thought about doing that. The only part of that that I feared was the flying. I couldn’t just hardly think of flying across





3,000 miles worth of water in a plane. Because it’s bad enough going on a ship. Now I went across to England on the Queen Mary—and you know, that was the largest luxury liner in the world at that time, and it had been converted to a troop carrier. And it ran so fast that they couldn’t send it over in a convoy. It always went alone. Because when I went over on that sucker, they had fifty thousand troops on that thing. Plus tanks and all that kind of junk. And it took us only four days to go over there. But when I came back from overseas, it took us ten days to come back, because they brought us back in a converted freighter. And this thing was dangerous and frightening, too, because this thing’s bouncing, sometimes it go down and dip that water! [Laughter] They had a policy that whenever an unidentified plane was to fly over you, wherever you are, that’s where you stay. And the lunchroom was three or four decks down below the level of the water. I got caught down there, and I said, “Man, I will not go back down there again to eat!” They had a little commissary on the thing, where you go and purchase mustard, sardines, and soda crackers, things of that sort. And I got me a place right up under one of the turrets—they had gun turrets on that ship. That was my place where I stayed the whole time. But now, I enjoyed going over, as far as the ship is concerned. But now, coming back on that converted freighter into a troop carrier, I didn’t like that because it’s much smaller.

	M:	With the issues with segregation, was it tough to be cramped on a ship of that size, too? I mean, did it make people more, I don’t know, tense or aggressive? Or were they just happy to be getting out?

	W:	What’s that?





	M:	Were there more fights breaking out on a little ship like that? Or, just too happy to get out—?

	W:	No, no, no, no, no. [Laughter] No. In fact, there weren’t any Whites who came back with us on these converted freighters. We were all Black. And one of the things I enjoyed—they sent an American ship out on the high seas to meet and to greet us, and to escort us back to shore.

	M:	Hm. And you enjoyed that? W:	Oh yeah.

	M:	What made that so enjoyable?



	W:	Well, I mean, just for the fact that they’re showing their appreciation, I mean.



Glad to see us and whatnot. Yeah.



	M:	What was it like to land in—you landed in Boston, you said?



	W:	Oh, yeah. Yeah, yeah, Camp Myles Standish. And I got there and one of the guys who had attended high school on with me, he used to live with a White family in Gainesville. They raised him. And he had risen to the rank of major. He was William Trent Chisholm.

	M:	William Trent Chisholm.



	W:	Mmhm. Yeah. And he was a major. M:	Hm. Did you know him well?

	W:	He was a guy that played football and whatnot for Lincoln, and I knew him as a football player. But anyway, when we got back to Camp Myles Standish and found out that he was there and went to his office—and he had a big office, a lot of junior officers and whatnot under him; he dismissed all of them. Said, “These





my homeboys.” [Laughter] And there were about seven of us from Gainesville who had attended school on with him in high school. And we had a time there for a while. William Trent Chisholm.

	M:	So you knew a lot of the guys you were serving with already—or a few of them, at least.

	W:	There was about seven of us that were drafted at the same time and went to school together, and I’m the only survivor. All the others are dead. You’re familiar with Duncan Brothers funeral home, right?

	M:	Mmhm.



	W:	Okay, well, Joe Duncan was the oldest of the brothers. He and I was in the Service together. But he’s dead now, you know. In fact, he and I were the last two survivors among those that went into the Service with us, and so I’m the only one now.

	M:	So, what was it like to adjust to being back in Gainesville? W:	Back in Gainesville?

	M:	Yeah.



	W:	Glad to be out of the Service. [Laughter] Oh, yes! And then I knew also that I was college-bound.

	M:	I see.



	W:	Yeah, I knew that. Government’s going to pay all of our expense? Uh, yes, I’m going. And I don’t want to attend any of the schools in Florida. I’m going to go for the best—among our schools. And so, I applied to schools like Lincoln University in Jefferson City, Missouri; Howard University, in Washington, D.C.; and I sent





out about four applications. And Howard University refused to accept me because they only accept the upper three percent of any graduation class. And it must be from an accredited school. But we were told that Lincoln was accredited, but it wasn’t at that time. And so Howard did not accept us. So we had the choice then of going out to Lincoln in Jefferson City, Missouri, or going to A&T in North Carolina. Now, one thing about A&T in North Carolina: they spent more money being a Southern state-owned Black education than any state in the South. And so, they had a recognizable school there. But I chose to go to Lincoln. Tom Coward and I.

	M:	What made you choose Lincoln?



	W:	Lincoln? Well, I’d been to practically every area of the country except the Western part—the Midwestern parts—so I decided we’d go out there.

	M:	Hm. Just wanted to see the area, too? W:	Yeah.

	M:	And all that? Okay.



	W:	Now, prior to going to the Service, and even after the Service, I had been a cook; short-order cook. And so I would go to the Catholic Center on University Avenue across from the campus there. Father Mahoney was a priest there, and he had told me, he says—after he found I was [inaudible 53:21], he said, “Now, when you get ready to go”—during that time, this institution was still segregated. We couldn’t attend this school—and he said now, “Joseph when you get ready to go, you let me know, and I will file a thing with the state of Florida to make them pay you for having to go outside of the state for the education that you decide.” Well, I





didn’t bother with it, I just went on my own. But he had told me that. I took that deal at College Inn, which was the largest restaurant in Gainesville and it had two dining rooms, it’s right across from what is now—what’s that now? I believe it’s a library, I believe a library’s there now. But during that time, down that area, the law school was back in that area. Now, one thing, now: I have seen this institution grow. I can recall the time when there was nothing south of Radio Road other than the police station. All the other building and whatnot that occurred since that time.

	M:	This could look pretty different, then.



	W:	Oh yeah, yeah. I’ve seen this place grow.



	M:	When you were cooking at the College Inn, what was the—that was a White establishment.

	W:	Restaurant. Yeah, yeah. And the thing about it was this: [Laughter] The place was operated by a guy named Jean Ahrano and Mr. Hamilton. And at the time, I was a high school student. Mr. Hamilton finally found out that I could do short order cooking, so he put me to doing short order cooking and to serve for the steam table. He learned to like me. Now, he was the type of guy who wanted a job done. He wanted you that if you didn’t have anything special to do, to find something to do. He wanted you to stay busy on the job. But you know what he told me? “Joseph,” he said, “if you have any spare time without use,” I get my textbook and study. On the job. And plus the fact I used to take in all the suits and have them tailored, and when it come time to get them out, I go to him, borrow his money to get them out. He had a policy generally, he didn’t lend





money to his help. But he had money. And guess what? When I became involved as a civil rights activist, now, his place one of the first places that I picketed. [Laughter] And he saw me and recognized me, and knew who I was. But he couldn’t do anything that because of the fact that prior to picketing a place, you had to go downtown and you get a parade permit. And so this gave you legal right to the sidewalks adjacent to or even in front of their places. They couldn’t do anything about it. So I guess he said, “Now that damn boy!” [Laughter] “He used to work for me!” [Laughter] “He here picketing my place.” And I’ll tell you what we did for him: we got some real light-skinned mulatto people, and we would send them into places like the College Inn to go in there and get served. Because they couldn’t tell whether they White or Black. And have them to leave a note on the table to let them know they had been served there. And we did that to a number of places. [Laughter] Did that to a number of places. Another strategy that I used as chairman of Direct Action was that places that had curb service and restaurant—I believe it was Humpty Dumpty—it was a large place on 13th Street. I got together a dozen or more automobiles. I would send three or four on the curb to be served. At the same time, I would send three or four inside the place to sit. And now, if you ordered to leave the premises, those four Black guys sent in here, I told them, “Now, you leave.” Send four more in there, different ones. So you couldn’t be charged, because you weren’t the ones that were originally told to leave. I did that with the cars and people sitting inside.

	M:	And it worked?



	W:	Oh yeah. Oh yeah, oh yeah. Yeah. Yeah.





	M:	How’d you first start getting involved with Civil Rights?



	W:	I would trace it back to being in the Service, in the segregated Army. That heightened my interest because I was interested in appeal law, really. I was sort of like this guy that—what’s his name? That fought for fourteen years trying to get into University of Florida.

	M:	Oh—Virgil Hawkins.



	W:	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I was interested in law, and so my plans were, when I went to college and graduated, to come out and teach for a few years—because I’d been to law school—and to go back then and finish law school. But I got into teaching and I liked it so well, that I never did go back to law school.

	M:	Did any of your education at Lincoln—how did it help you as a Civil Rights activist?

	W:	As a what?



	M:	In Civil Rights, I mean, did any of the teachers sort of have that conversation with you, or did you mostly just learn the—?

	W:	Well, I would say yes and no about teachers, because now, you had Black teachers who actively feared for their job and things of that sort. And so they were not directly interested in Civil Rights, or afraid to participate in any way. No. They’d say, “No, no! I won’t take a chance at my job. I’ll give you a contribution, but now, don’t put my name on anything.” “Okay.”

	M:	When did you start working with the NAACP?



	W:	Must’ve been, let me see. [19]57, [19]58? I’d say around [19]57, [19]56, [19]57,



[19]58.





	M:	Okay.



	W:	And maybe up until [19]60.



	M:	And what about CORE? When did you get involved with that? W:	Same time, both of them.

	M:	About the same time. Okay.



	W:	Yeah. Yes, both of them. We had a number of professors from the University of Florida who actually belonged to CORE, and they worked along with us. In fact, several of them lost their jobs as a result of participating in the Civil Rights movement. Dr. Marshall—Marshall, Doctor, I think Marshall’s name is Jones, I believe his name was.

	M:	Marshall Jones? Yeah. No, that name was— W:	Hm?

	M:	Yeah, Marshall Jones is one.



	W:	Yeah, yeah, yeah. I can’t think of the other guy’s name—another guy. Some of the names I have forgotten. That’s why I wanted Arago to—because he can remember those names, but I’ve forgotten. But Marshall Jones, he was very instrumental in working with us.

	M:	When did you first meet him?



	W:	Through the Civil Rights organization—through CORE. M:	I see.

	W:	He belonged to it, and I belonged to it, too. And then there was Megan Webb.



She was a White female. Teacher. She was very instrumental with us. There was a girl named Nadia. She was a student at the University of Florida. And there’s a





guy—what’s his name? [Laughter] He was very wild. He came—like I think you asked me before about this: did we go around in these others places outside of Gainesville and Alachua County to do anything? Yes. And this guy—[Laughter]— he wanted me to go to Madison. Which I—Madison? You didn’t go around places like Madison and Quincy and things of that sort. Mm-mm! Because those the worst, racist places there was in the state of Florida! [Laughter] He talking, “Come man, let’s go over there, help those people there.” “No, no, you go; I’m not going!” And one thing tickle me: he had a nice-looking Chevrolet car. Went up there, boy; man, they filled that thing with bullet holes. Just happened they didn’t hit him.

	M:	Whew. Lucky.



	W:	Yeah. And the thing about him, too, also—now, he was inclined to go into politics, because one time I remember he ran for the governorship of Florida. And I gave him a contribution to his campaign. However, one of the things that he favored that I didn’t favor, and he favored the legalization of marijuana. Now, I will never be with that. [Inaudible 1:04:33]. I just can’t imagine society in which it would be legal to go and buy and use marijuana. Mm-mm. And he’s around here now. He be on Channel 4, on TV. I can’t figure that boy’s name. Yeah. Yes, sir.

	M:	You got it written there somewhere?



	W:	Mmhm. Yeah. [Paper rustling] Don’t have it, don’t have it. Yeah, I have it. I missed the name, because I knew I’d forget him.

	M:	We can ask Arago later if it comes to that. W:	Okay. Yeah.





	M:	So what kind of support did you get during the Civil Rights—I mean, you said a lot of other teachers would give you some money, but they didn’t want their names on the lists or anything like that.

	W:	Right.



	M:	Were there people who asked you not to do it? Or were there people who just didn’t want to talk about it, or—?

	W:	They did not want to and would not participate. Not actively, mm-mm. No. And the little contribution they gave you was maybe for buying refreshments and things of that sort for those who did participate. Or if not that, like if you went to test a place, you use that to pay for the service that they got, up like in a restaurant or something of that sort.

	M:	I see. Yeah, were those expensive to go to? For the—



	W:	Oh yeah, yeah, yes. Because there were times when I used my own money. If I would take a group to a place like the University Inn or something of this sort, whatever they ordered or whatnot, I would pay for it. Yeah. Out of my own pocket. And even, for example, even churches—I would call ministers of various White churches, and let them know who I was, that the members of the CORE— either one of them, or NAACP—and “we would like to worship with you.” And I can recall [inaudible 1:08:07], the pastor of a Presbyterian church, he welcomed us, goes, “Come right on!” And we got there, he was in there waiting for us. [Laughter]

	M:	Wow.



	W:	Yeah.





	M:	Was that surprising, or—?



	W:	Well yeah, it was. And two of the persons that went with me on that detail was the guy who is now a federal judge. He’s sickly now, too.

	M:	Oh, Stephan Mickle.



	W:	Stephan Mickle. Yeah, yeah, yeah. He’s one of the old—he was a young boy.



Because he and Arago about the same age. And we went there, had a nice time.



	M:	Congregation was friendly?



	W:	Oh yes. Yes, yes, yes. Oh, and another place was the First Baptist Church downtown, there. They were very friendly toward our organization. We would have meetings there. And there was a White church out on 5th Avenue, Northwest on—no, that’s 5th Avenue here, Northwest 5th Avenue. We would have many meetings and whatnot there, too, also, because they had members that participated with us. Gainesville wasn’t all that bad. I mean, not like some of the other places. And so that’s the reason why that we were able to go other places to help them, too. To sort of do things. Because they saw how successful that we were here in Gainesville. We didn’t have too many problems. For example, when I went down to have a conference with the city manager of Gainesville about their hiring policies, he asked me, “Who’ll let the niggers operate a” something and so forth, they called those packing garbage trucks and things. “Who let a nigger operate one of them?” “All right, well what the hell you talking about? Have you ever heard of the 99th Pursuit Squadron? They flew planes that were worth millions of dollars and never lost a single one.” Then I laid upon him a list of demands. And you know what? The guy came through and put every one of





them into effect. For example, I told him I said, “Now, as a matter of hiring, you going hire first come, first serve. Promotion? Seniority.” He did that to an extent that you take the public works in Gainesville for a long time, most of the supervisors were Black. As a result of that. They were the first Blacks and that type of thing. Yeah. And I only met with him just one time.

	M:	Oh!



	W:	[Laughter] Yeah.



	M:	I mean, when you were growing up, how aware were you of the segregation, in terms of—was it tough to go downtown? Or were there any—do you remember any moments when you were growing up that it just kind of stood out to you, other than—

	W:	Well, you had no accommodations downtown other than a couple of places that were operated by Blacks. You had a restaurant downtown, Black-owned restaurant. You had a barbershop down there for Blacks. And then, that’s all. Of course, that’s all. But however, when we began working on the restaurants and things, you take—Bennett’ Drugstore was a place on University Avenue near Main, North Main. And you found Woolworth and all that sort of thing. We didn’t have any problems with them at all. I mean, they readily served us. They actually, they were waiting for us to come in and attempt to be served. And for those who resented our presence, I’ll tell you what we would do to embarrass them: we would leave them sizable tips. [Laughter] Yeah.

	M:	And so, there wasn’t a lot of outright hostility. W:	Mm-mm. No, no, unh-uh.





	M:	I see. Had you been concerned about it all? I mean, there were definitely much more sort of violent responses in Jacksonville and St. Augustine.

	W:	Mmhm. Now, we were sworn to do things peacefully. And not to resort to any violence, not even respond to violence, even if it was performed on us. Because I can tell you one time, we had a meeting for a workshop at one of our local churches here. And we set up a so-called lunch counter there, and we actually duplicated the real situation. They can give you a bottle of ketchup, and you shake it like—[pantomimes shaking bottle]—and actually pour the ketchup on the person. [Laughter]

	M:	Wow.



	W:	Now, you getting angrier by the minute! [Laughter] You getting angrier by the minute. But now, you sure know how to be peaceful! [Laughter] To be peaceful. So you didn’t respond to it—to those kinds of things.

	M:	So you were a teacher at the time that you were— W:	Oh yeah, yeah, yeah.

	M:	And you were teaching where?



	W:	Mebane—A. L. Mebane School in Alachua



	M:	Okay. Is that where you taught the whole time?



	W:	No. I taught at A.L. Mebane from 1956 to February 14, 1970. Then after that, I was assigned to go to Newberry High School.

	M:	That’s right. Okay.





	W:	And believe it or not, despite the history of Newberry, I really enjoyed working there. Because I was the only Black male that taught a content course at that school for about twelve years or more. And so, I was really known at the school.

	M:	So you got that respect that way.



	W:	Oh yeah, yes, yes, yes, yes. In fact, when I first went there, I spent two days orientating the kids to my behavior and what I expected from them. And I say, “Now, I’m not your Black teacher. Or your White teacher. I’m your teacher.” And I said, “And my authority extends as far as any other teacher on this faculty staff, except the principal and assistant principal.” Had them know that. And so, I didn’t have any problems with the kids at all. See, a lot of neophyte teachers, when they first go into a classroom, they all nervous and whatnot, and they have no command or security. I never had that problem at all. Unh-uh. Not at all. [Laughter] Well, I did have one to try me. After they combined the schools, I did have one boy who formerly attended Mebane School, who came to us in Newberry. Because when they combined the schools, you had schools who provided students to come to the big center. And he got there along with about four or five White kids. Boy, he tried me for a day. That’s okay; I’ll take care of that. I came home and got me some plywood, made me a two-ply paddle. And the next day when he came up with that, I lined them up—the Whites and Blacks, all of them. And buddy, I broke that paddle on them. [Laughter] And from that time on? No problems. Uh-unh. No, no. No problems. Because one of the White students at Newberry had asked the principal, “Mister, have you hired any nigger teachers to come to this school?” He said, “No sir, I have not any niggers out, but





I have some talented Blacks to come here.” He say, “Well, I guess I better quit school, here because my daddy told me that a Black man can’t teach a White man nothing.” And so he dropped out. [Laughter] He refused to be taught by one of—. And for a period of time, I was the chairman of my department, and teaching all the senior high school courses, so he had to come by me if he wanted to remain in the school. He had no choice.

	M:	And was Mebane the first place you taught after you graduated, or was— W:	Yeah.

	M:	Okay. So that’s where you started. What was it like trying to teach—I know Thomas Coward and others have talked about how the textbooks—well, I mean they were teaching a biased history—

	W:	Mmhm.



	M:	A lot of them were written to support segregation.



	W:	Well, you must realize this: when it comes to Social Studies—now, Social Studies comprises about nine different areas. Like anything that has to do with the interaction between human beings falls within the realm of Social Studies. And so you don’t depend upon a textbook as such. Because I believe that current affairs are just as much a part of Social Studies as any textbook could possibly be. And so I kept my students aware of history in the making. Things of this sort. And I also thought about getting students prepared for college. That’s what my main concern is. Because I would tell them in all-Black schools, “Look here.” I say, “The White kids don’t have any more brain cells than you have. They may apply themselves differently; but you can accomplish, too.” And I tried to instill





that into them. Another thing I tried to instill into them is this: if you work on a job that doesn’t provide security when you get up in age, let that be a temporary job while you looking for one that will provide security for you when you get up in age. Get you a job working for the city or the state, or something of the sort. And as a result, I can recall one boy in particular—. [Laughter] This thing tickled me. His shoe size was higher than his—. [Laughter] But that old boy got him a job, worked out here, and he has a lifetime social security and retirement coming from the state.

	M:	He took the advice.



	W:	Yeah, yeah. And I’d always tell him that. I said, “You get a job working for the state, or you take the civil service exam, try to get into the postal service.” Because that postal service is one of the best retirement systems there is.

	M:	And that was—I mean, in the Black community, that was one of the best jobs for a long time.

	W:	Oh yeah, oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Teaching, in terms of the salaries and things of that sort, mm-mm. No, no. Because I can recall when Mr. T.B. MacPherson, with a master’s degree; salary $150 a month! I know because he sent me on errands to do some of his business, because I was driving a car to school. Yeah, $150 a month. You know about the fact that they had a dual salary schedule: a White schedule, and a Black schedule. [Laughter] Yeah. Yeah.

	M:	Did you teach much of the Civil Rights that—you know, you were doing a lot of activist work while you were at Mebane. Did you teach that in the classroom, or—





	W:	Now, let me tell you this: at the Black school, I was guilty of doing that, yes, teaching that in there. Because I wanted these kids to develop values and all this sort of thing. But now, in the White school, I did not do that because I tell you what: I can recall one day, the assistant principal and I were having lunch together. And he was telling me about my calling to come to Newberry. He say, “Joseph.” He said, “Now, we knew all about your Civil Rights activities and your demonstrations and all that sort of thing. We knew all about it. But at the same time, we had heard that you were a very competent teacher. And that’s the reason why that we chose you to come here.” And so, I enjoyed teaching at Newberry, despite its history. They had an area there that they called Lynch Hammock, you know, in Newberry. But I enjoyed working there.

	M:	Did people ever talk about Lynch Hammock, or—? W:	Hm?

	M:	Did people talk about it much?



	W:	Oh no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! No, no. The funny thing about the principal, because of my seniority and age and things of that sort, I had his ear. And I could always have [inaudible 1:24:14]. If I, for example, saw any sign of racial friction come into play, I’d go to him. And say Beau, say “I think we ought to summon the Inter-Club Counsel.” Now, the Inter-Club Counsel consisted of all the student leaders—class presidents and things of this sort. And we talked to them, then had them go and talk to students. And in that way, for example, at Newberry, when they would have racial incidents at the other schools, we weren’t having them at Newberry. Because if I saw any signs of anything happening, I would go





to him. And he would listen to me. But not only that, the thing tickle me: Tiny Talbot was the superintendent of public instruction. He’d formerly had been the principal of Gainesville High School. And when desegregation came about, he didn’t know what to do and how to handle it. So oftentimes, he would summon the total administration to come to his office with him to have a meeting or a conference. Well, at Newberry, guess what? They left me in charge of the school! Yeah. And they would inform the teachers, say, “If you have any problems, come talk to Mr. Welch.” [Laughter] And so, there I was somewhat almost as an associate administrator and classroom teacher. Yeah.

	M:	So you taught at Mebane right up until—I mean until— W:	February 14, 1970. Yeah.

	M:	—they ordered integration.



	W:	Yeah. Well, you know, when the court first came out, hand that decision Brown v. Topeka Board of Kansas, they told them, “Now, you proceed with desegregation with all deliberate speed.” Well now, “all deliberate speed” for Alachua County meant sixteen years! [Laughter] That was “all deliberate speed.” Sixteen years.

	M:	Were people concerned about it? I mean, when you were teaching at Mebane, did it seem like there was a lag in terms of, the schools were still segregated, even though a lot of other civil rights initiatives had—?

	W:	Yeah. Yeah. Take for example this: we had an activity program composed of practically every field of occupation that you can think of, whether it be medicine, or teaching, or carpentry, or anything of the sort. And we had clubs. And different teachers were responsible for each of the clubs. I had a group of students come





to me one day, say, “Mr. Welch? Now, I’m interested in pre-med, and we are in the pre-med club.” He said, “But now, yet in our science lab, we do not have a single microscope in the lab. Don’t have a single thing. The only thing we have is a bioscope.” And they say, “Now, a microscope is very important to study specimens and slides and things of this sort. What can we do about it?” I suggested those two, I said, “Now, you go back and get your parents, and you go down to the school board—Alachua County School—and tell them that you want to transfer to Gainesville High School. If they want to know why? That you getting an inferior education because of the fact of the lack of equipment and whatnot.” They went down. And as a result, trucks began running over each other coming to deliver microscopes and all the other scientific equipment that they needed. So indirectly, even though I wasn’t a science teacher, I improved the Science Department. Yeah.

	M:	That’s how badly they wanted to not integrate the schools at that time, too, I guess.

	W:	Yeah. Because you take, even, you know, “separate but equal” was really something else. Lincoln High School—the old Lincoln High School, and the old Gainesville High School, they both opened at the same time, they were built at the same time. They both opened in 1923. But now, Gainesville High School had Physical Ed classes, a library, unlimited amount of scientific equipment like microscopes and things. At Lincoln High School, we had one microscope in the Science Department. We had no cafeteria. We had no library—we had several sets of encyclopedias, but no library; things of that sort. So they were separate,





but always unequal. [Laughter] Yeah. Because you think about during my time in high school, I never attended school for nine months. White kids attended school nine months, I attended school eight months. Because I was expected to be available to work that harvest, pull crops and things for the farmers—which I refused to do. [Laughter] Now I had a sister—that tickle me—now, she’d go and do that. But I wouldn’t do it. And so, we had a lady live in our neighborhood name Ms. Hazel. She was an elderly person. She said “Rowena?” She said to my mother. “Rowena? It’s a shame that you let that boy sit on his behind, and that girl gets in them trucks and go out there and pick cantaloupes, or cucumbers and things of that sort, or beans, and he don’t.” She say, “Hazel,” she said, “I don’t know what else to do but say my boy, he doesn’t like that type of work. And so, I don’t make him go.” [Laughter] Yeah.

	M:	Did you guys keep a garden or anything when you were growing up at your house?

	W:	What?



	M:	A garden? Did you keep a garden in your—



	W:	Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah. We raised all kind of things there. M:	I see. How much space did you have for that?

	W:	Oh, it was about a hundred fifty-five, two hundred. Well, first of all, now, my great grandmother I told you about, she was a property owner. Now, she owned half of that block. And of course, when her son got married, she gave him the southern half of it. And we retained the other half. The other half has remained in our family for over a hundred, about a hundred years ago. Yeah.





	M:	How’d she come by all that property?



	W:	She bought it. She and her son. She had a son named Joe Veal, her oldest son.



And he was very instrumental in helping his mother.



	M:	So did she keep tenants over there? Like, were there other houses, people renting on the property, or was that just your property?

	W:	On our property? There just the two houses. M:	Just that.

	W:	Mmhm.



	M:	I see. What was the neighborhood like growing up? I mean, was there anywhere you could go, I don’t know, go—

	W:	Well, let me tell you this: adjacent to—[starts drawing a map]. This is the Gainesville Tool Store, and this is our property here, adjoining this. Now, in my backyard there, I had all such things like flying jennies, and swings, and merry- go-round that I built myself in my yard. And the White kids would come across that fence—I kept a backyard full of all White kids, they come in my yard to play. I had a croquet set, they could play croquet; merry-go-round, and swings; up in the trees and all that sort of thing. And so now I grew up—as far as every day, daily business—being involved and interacting with White kids. And so, interacting with White families was no big deal to me. I mean, to my sister and I, because we did all the time. Because the kids would always come up in our yard to play. We got along fine with them.

	M:	But that wasn’t—that wasn’t a very common experience, I guess? Did any of the other kids in Porters come to your yard to play, like with them?





	W:	Very few. There were usually more of the [inaudible 1:34:50] kids than any other.



Yeah, most of them.



	M:	I see.



W:  The only thing was that I—as I say you before, I lived within a block and a half of Gainesville High School and I couldn’t attend Gainesville High School. [Laughter] But, far as associating with them, we associated with them quite frequently.

	M:	You got along with the White kids in town, too? The ones who— W:	Yeah, yeah.

	M:	Because the Tourist—what is it, Tourist Camp, you said? W:	Mmhm. Yeah.

	M:	So who would come there? Just people from— W:	The Tourist Camp?

	M:	All over the country, or— W:	Yeah, yeah—

	M:	Or was it out of the country?



	W:	Right, right, right, right. And there were some that almost lived in there permanently. In the rental cabins that they had there. They had a lot of cabins and things there. And there was a lot of them over there was where they would live in tents and whatnot there. And they come over, we play.

	M:	I see.



	W:	Yeah, I still have some friends even today from back to my childhood. I have a guy named, let’s see if I can recall his name—Willard Williams. He lives out near





Newnan’s Lake. And he and his sisters and brothers and things, I’ve known them all down through the years.

	M:	Wow. Wow. Maybe we should try to talk to him sometime, too. Is there anything else—did your great grandmother ever talk about being a slave or talk about living in South Carolina?

	W:	No. And I wish she had. Because—I think I recall telling you about this, now—old people had their ways. If they were engaged in a conversation and you might hear something that may be of interest to you, you did not engage or enter in that conversation. “This is a grownup people conversation. It doesn’t involve you.” Because I heard her many times talk about the fact that she was thirteen years of age when slavery was abolished. I witnessed that many times. And I would be, in my mind, was inquisitive enough to want to know from her, firsthand, what was it like, and what was you doing in growing up? Because it was amazing to me that she could sit down with that Bible and she could read for hours. And she could write, I mean, like, send letters to her daughters and sons and whatnot that lived out of town. And that was amazing to me. But I never had the opportunity to ask her any of those questions. And also, now, she had a sister. And her sister’ name was Rhiney, R-H-I-N-E-Y, Rhiney White. Rhiney White was the mother of D.E. White, who used to own White & Jones Funeral Home here in Gainesville. That’s the funeral home that’s now owned by Pinkney—operated by Pinkney. White’s wife died just a few days ago. And she still owned the building, but now Pinkney own the business. Pinkney.

	M:	I see. Didn’t know about that connection. Did you know Rhiney White?





	W:	Oh yes, yes. That’s my aunt. Yeah, I do, my great aunt, yes. Yes, that my great- grandmother’ sister.

	M:	What was she like?



	W:	I would assume that they both were in slavery together. But my great- grandmother was the older of the two.

	M:	I see.



	W:	So she may have been a bit younger when slavery was abolished. As to my grandmother being thirteen, she was younger.

	M:	Growing up, did you celebrate Juneteenth or anything like that? W:	Oh no.

	M:	No?



	W:	No, that don’t make any sense to me. [Laughter] No. No.



	M:	What were the big holidays growing up? When you were growing up, what were the big holidays for your family, were there?

	W:	Oh, Christmas, Easter, things of that sort. Because now, they had a program at the church and whatnot. As I say before, my sister and I, we had to be on that program.

	M:	Ah.



	W:	[Laughter] Yeah, we had to be on that program.



	M:	I see. Do you remember much about the—I mean, I know there used to be some jukes and stuff in Porters. Do you remember much about that?

	W:	[Laughter] Yeah! Yeah. Yes, there were quite a number of those. And those persons who owned those, the letter carriers; they was the so-called “big shots”





among the Blacks because they had higher income. More money. Yeah. And those places were powerful, because you take, for example, that one place out North, what is now North Main Street, called the Pistol, and the Red’ Quarters, and things of that sort. They had big jukes out in those areas where Blacks congregated. And even White police officers were afraid to go into those places after dark. They wouldn’t be caught going there after dark.

	M:	Some rough people over there.



	W:	Yeah, yeah. And you’d be surprised. All that there’s—like where the Gainesville Shopping Center is?

	M:	Mmhm.



	W:	Going back toward—up 39th? All of that was Black-owned, that area. M:	What happened to it since then?

	W:	Well, these shopping centers came into being. And I can recall, for example, right now, on the corner of—what is that, 23rd and Main, there’s a place called “Wood- U.” The lady who owned that specific piece of property was the last Black to sell her property. She held onto it as long as she possibly could. And then you take, down 23rd, there a group of Blacks which consisted of—well, I won’t give the names, but anyway, a group that you probably would know. They got together and bought up a bunch of land in that area because Whites were building in that area there, they’d begun building. And they were afraid that these Blacks were going to begin to build residences in that area. And so those guys bought that to speculate with and to get big money out of it, and they did. Because the Whites were willing to pay any kind of money to make sure that no Blacks built in that





area. Because there was always that fear that some Black might decide to build a house in this area.

	M:	And so they didn’t want to let that—. W:	Yeah.

	M:	I mean, were you aware of any episodes of violence resulting from that kind of— the Klan had had a presence in Gainesville. Did that ever come up?

	W:	But you know, I’ve seen them. I’ve seen them parade down University Avenue, but we never had no contact with them that I can recall. Because now, you know, there was some of us who were—and I can’t think of the guy’s name, I can’t think of the name right now—he was a, he was a—well, there was a [inaudible 1:44:13]. He was a very arrogant Black. And he didn’t give a darn about nobody, whether you green, white, purple, or red. And people feared him, too, on the other side. There was several like that. And I probably mentioned to you before, for example, there was a policy that if a Black man was to be able to disarm a White police officer, take his pistol and whip him, they would not arrest him in Gainesville. Because there was a guy, he was named Johnny Johnson, he did just that. They didn’t even arrest him.

	M:	And that was just a known policy?



	W:	Yeah. Yeah. And that other name. When you were here, you showed me Metts Theater. [Laughter] And mentioned the fact that Metts had made the comment that if he made thirty dollars profit from a movie or thing of that sort, that was great. I don’t know whether that was so true or not, because see now, my mother at one time owned the restaurant two doors south of Metts Theater. And in fact,





this was dated 1935. And Metts bought his son, Thomas Metts Jr., a brand new 1937 Lincoln Zephyr car. And that was an expensive car during that day. And he bought it for him. In fact, that was his only child. And he was a spoiled brat. He was a spoiled brat. Not very smart, but a spoiled brat. Because of his daddy owning the theater and things of that sort. And the largest house there is on that entire street, even today, is directly across from Pinkney Funeral Home, that’s Metts’ residence, and it’s still good.

	M:	Okay. So, the—let’s see, there were a couple things there. Oh, and just since some of the pictures we were looking at—so, Thornton Roberts. What else do you remember about him? Do you remember much, or—was he teaching at Lincoln when you were going there?

	W:	Yes, he was the director of the DCT, the Diversified Cooperative Training. This is where you would do your intern work prior to going into, like, being an embalmer or something of that sort. You get a job, and he would take and visit your job to see how efficient that you were. And you had the privilege of attending school only half a day, and spending the other on your job. But now, you had to satisfy not only your employer, but him, too. Because Diversified Cooperative Training, I mean, he was the head of that program. And Lincoln High School was the second high school—Black—that adopted that program in the state of Florida.

	M:	I see.



	W:	Now, I would like to know more about his daddy. I know he was a prominent man. His name was Dellie, Dellie Roberts. And I would like to know more about





him and what was his, really, claim to fame. Because, now, all of the sons— Thornton, and I can’t think of the other brother’s name; they were teachers.

	M:	Might have been Dell. Maybe it was Dell Jr. or something. I thought Matthis said it was Dell.

	W:	Dell was the father, Dell Roberts. That’s the father. But he was very prominent person.

	M:	I see.



	W:	And I remember him well, because I remember when they had price control in effect. And my mother sold him a car. And when they went before the board, she was required to take and refund a part of the money, because she had charged an excessive amount of money for that car. But what now, he was one of the prominent Blacks in Gainesville—Dellie Roberts; S.H. Hendley; D.E. White; Henry Williams. Now, he was a minister that owned his church. And all the finances that came with that church he controlled the finances. [Laughter] And not only did he own the church here in Gainesville, but he had one in Miami that he owned also.

	M:	Oh, wow. What church was that? Which one was that? W:	God in Christ. That’s on—what is that, on 7th Avenue. M:	Big congregation?

	W:	Oh yeah. Yes, yes. And you would find him—.[Laughter] Oh.



	M:	So when you’re saying that they were “prominent men,” I mean, politically, economically?





	W:	Well, he had power and money. And prior to owning that church, he used to play guitar. Was an entertainer at the jukes and whatnot. And he went from that to the ministry. And then ended up building that church. And nurturing it to become one of the biggest churches there was in Gainesville, and most powerful. And one of the most popular, too.

	M:	Was he a good speaker, or good—? W:	Yeah, basically, yes. Yeah.

	M:	And so, S.H. Hendley, you said—we talked a little about him before. I guess he had been a teacher.

	W:	He owned a group of rental houses, and I believe that—I think he was a former teacher, too, I believe he was. But he owned a group of houses. Yeah, in his quarters, which was part of the Porters Quarters.

	M:	And so he used to collect the rent over there, then, I guess. W:	Yeah.

	M:	Were they nicer houses there, or they were just kind of—?



	W:	They were fairly decent. Hendley houses were. And he was a great friend to my great-grandmother. S. H. Hendley, yes. In fact, they founded a large organization together. They both were a part of the founding of this lodge. The Pallbearers Sun Lodge.

	M:	What was the importance of that lodge at that time?



	W:	Well, they attended meetings and things of this sort, and whenever a person died they had a certain amount of money that they would issue to the beneficiary, or





whoever was designated to become the beneficiary, they would give this money to them.

	M:	I see. Did they work together with the Female Protective Society, or were they very different?

	W:	The Female Protective Society—wasn’t even in effect during that time. It’s a lot newer than that particular—.

	M:	Okay. Okay. Well, we’ve covered quite a bit, did you need to take a break, or are you still feeling good, or—?

	W:	Well, I’m going until you. M:	Hm?

	W:	I’m going ‘til you finish and whatnot.



	M:	Okay, okay. Let’s see. Okay, so what else do you remember about when you were at Lincoln? In fact, and then while you were teaching at Mebane. I guess, I’ve spoken to a lot of people who feel as though something got lost after integration, something about what those schools did or could do got lost.

	W:	I’ve heard a lot of people say among Blacks that desegregation has not brought about the proper results, or the expected results. Because I’ll tell you this, now: there are still numbers of us who prefer separate—today, even—institutions. I don’t. I would like to see—and I know I probably won’t live to see it, but I would like to see, and it is moving along, too—I would like to see America really become truly the melting pot of the world. I would really like to see it. But they all doled among us, right now we’re still—they for having things separated. Now, I’ll tell you one thing, now, that I really like. And there used to be times, when, you





take in our residential zone, everything that you needed, you had the neighborhood grocery store, the neighborhood beauty salon, the theater—well, now, not particularly interested in theater, but now, the other things. The things— the barber shops and the things that you needed, you had right there in the community. I still think that was kind of useful, but I don’t propose being separate. Because one thing I could never understand: after we went through all the problems of getting downtown integrated, Blacks still don’t go down there in large numbers. You find just a very few. And you find another thing: you find many Blacks, they have the tendency when they go, where there’s a large crowd, the first thing they do, walking, looking for, “Where are my kind in here?” Now, to me, that doesn’t make any difference to me whatsoever. Unh-uh. I don’t go looking for them, or being seated around a bunch of Blacks and things of that sort.

Because, I’m going tell you something: any place that I go, and if you are near me, I think we can find something to talk about that would be of interest. Yeah. But now, it’s some that’s still prefer it, being separate.

	M:	I mean, do you think there is anything that schools of that time period had that has disappeared, that you’ve seen go away, or was your time at Newberry basically—did that feel like an improvement on what had been before?

	W:	To me, Newberry was an improvement. And another thing—I felt that I was a great asset to that school myself. Because I introduced a number of things there. I introduced the idea of having the Inter-Club Council, that is a leadership group composed of the student leaders and things of that sort, to deal with any of the problems that we might have in the school.





	M:	I see. Oh, another question relating to Lincoln—so you knew A. Quinn Jones. Is that right?

	W:	Yeah, yeah, yeah.



	M:	What do you remember about him?



	W:	The most ideal educator for Blacks that I can think of. I think he was a man that probably was ahead of his time, despite the fact—you know, he was a hundred four years old when he died. 104. He was very strict and stern. I can recall a time, for example, a like if a guy came to school with his ankles showing and no socks or anything on, he might send him back home. Go back, put him some socks on. And he didn’t fear no student, no matter how large or whatnot he was; you had to fear him. Yeah. And I can recall, that as a principal, he taught one class for an entire year. He taught Latin. Because he thought that if you had an understanding of Latin, that would help you to understand even the English language and things of this sorts. And so, he taught a class in Latin each year until 1939, I think that’s the last class he taught. And he thought it was very important. But he was very strict and very stern.

	M:	Do you know much about what he had to go through or deal with to keep Lincoln running the way that it was? I mean, was it tough for him to interface—because I guess under segregation, you know, you had White supervision, but then you had two separate systems, if I’ve got that about right.

	W:	He sure did. because I’ll tell you this, now: you had a guy named Harold Jones.



And Harold Jones is what I would classify as being the so-called “Black superintendent,” because he was the link between the Black schools and the





school board. Because now, the school board, until Paul E. Peters was elected superintendent, they had no interest in the quality or level of education that was being dispensed at the Black schools. Paul E. Peters was the most enlightened superintendent that we ever had in this county until his time. He was a fine fellow. In fact, when I was hired at Mebane School, I was hired through Paul E. Peters.

And I’ll tell you how this happened—a young lady that grew up in my neighborhood along with me was his maid. And they were having lunch one day, and she asked him, say, “Mr. Peters,” say, “why is it that people who born and raised and grew up here and finished college come back and can’t get a job teaching?” He said, “Eva, do you know anybody like that?” She said, “Yes, there’s a friend of mine that’s been in college, he been out for two years”—I had been out two years, I didn’t have a job. Well, you could only teach at that time in the Black school. You didn’t have access to the White school. So anyway, he told her, said, “You tell him that I say come to my office tomorrow at ten o’clock. I want to see him.” So, sure enough, I went down to see him, and I carried with me my little A-B degree. And he called in Garnet Williams, who at that time was the chairman over personnel. And told her to make up a folder with my name and history and whatnot in it. And the first time that a position become available, that I was supposed to be the one to get that job. And so when I went to Mebane School in 1956, he was the one that sent me directly to Mebane School. So I was hired by the superintendent to teach, not by the principal. Because I had gone to the principal before, and he kept everybody going on and writing a resume. What the hell I write a resume? I’m in your presence; you can ask me anything you





want to ask me! [Laughter] And so, I didn’t write the resume. But then later on— [Laughter]—the superintendent said he would contact Joseph Welch. And so, I got the job. So I worked there then from 1956 until February 14, 1970, when they decided then to desegregate all public schools. And then, I was sent to Newberry. And I had chosen to go to GHS rather than an outer-city school. But they sent me to there. And I say it before—the principal and assistant principal told me, say, “We know about your activities.” [Laughter] Say, “So we [inaudible 2:04:42] say you were a very competent teacher.” And so, I went there.

	M:	Do you think that Civil Rights involvement had anything to do with you not going to GHS?

	W:	GHS? No, I think it’s a matter of choice on the part of the principal there. M:	I see. They wanted you, so that was it.

	W:	Yeah. Because now I had a cousin, now. He was a former principal, and he indicated that he wanted to come to Mebane because he lived in Alachua. But they sent him to Gainesville High School, and sent me to Newberry. Now, he formerly held a principalship in the all-Black school in Newberry.

	M:	Do you remember the—I know, I guess around [19]69 or [19]70, right around there, there were some big protests over closing Lincoln. Because, I mean that was another one of those—

	W:	Yes. Yeah—



	M:	—unequal things; all the Black schools closed, or became—.



	W:	Well. Well, let me tell you this: when they closed Lincoln, we thought that we had been deprived of—I don’t know what you call it; our heritage or whatever you





might call it. And there were those who protested, I mean, loudly about it. Because—what’s the guy’ name? He was a leader, he had never driven a thing in his life. And they put him in charge of it, they gave a job to quiet his mouth.

They gave a job over the transportation of the school system. I mean, because he raised so much hell about them closing the school. And to quiet him, they gave him a position of power. And he had never driven a truck in his life, or anything as big as a school bus. But and then also, when they built Eastside High School, a lot of Blacks looked for Eastside High School to being the replacement for the old, original Lincoln High School. They thought that that was our school.

And see, this school at that time was integrated, and there were those among Whites who felt that there were too many Blacks attending Eastside High School. And so then they proceeded to study to see about sending some of them out of there to other schools. In other words, you heard about the theory of racial balance? That mean that the population of school must reflect the population of the area in which the school’s located. And so, that usually meant at least ten percent or more of other groups. I mean, like, even if you had to bus them in to the school, you must bus them in. Because we organized an organization—a Black teachers’ organization—not to dispose of the Alachua County teachers, you know, or anything of this sort. But now, Black teachers felt that they were confronted with problems that White teachers did not have. And so, we organized an organization out here, and we set up a schedule with the superintendent here. We met with him periodically to discuss those problems. [Laughter] And the thing that tickled me, he was a great pretender. His name was Hughes, I believe it





was. We would talk to him, and he’d pretend to be listening, and he really wasn’t listening. But now, to maintain the racial balance, there were White kids who had to come in to Duval residential area to go to Duval High School. And they had to walk to school. He commissioned me to go to the Thomas Center, and to request them to tear down a building that they had on 8th Avenue where winos and drug addicts congregated. Because the kids feared—the White kids walking through that area. And so I went to him, and they would’ve torn it down except for the fact it was owned by a White person. Well, then a Black barber, he proceeded to buy it and to improve it, and so they didn’t tear it down. And so you take even right now, for example: now, there are two residential areas out in Duval Heights.

They are known as “Cedar Grove One” and “Cedar Grove Two”. Now, Cedar Grove Two—they built in the last, I’d say, six or eight years, they built about—oh, I’d say maybe a hundred and fifty of them new houses in there. Nobody made any effort to get Whites to locate there. Now, I think that someone should have tried to influence Whites, I mean, to buy. Now, we have some Whites that live there, but now, these are White women who have Black mates. So, that’s a handle. I felt that the whole entire residential area should have been integrated, and somebody should have encouraged it. But nobody did. Because I’m a true believer in this idea of the melting pot rather than the salad bowl. [Laughter] You see, you take distinct flavors, put them in a bowl, they still maintain their—they’re still there. But see, in the melting pot, they all go together really, and become one. And that really interest me. It’s an amazing thing; you take my wife—my ex- wife; I was married for twenty-nine years, my wife and I. And I wouldn’t care that





they were electing the animal-man or whatnot; I would not miss voting. And I would always encourage her to vote. And do you know what? Today, she does not vote, and does not have any interest in it. And that’s amazing in view of the fact that she was married to me for twenty-nine years. [Laughter] And I was a Civil Rights activist and all this sort of thing. But, that don’t make any difference to her. She has no interest in it whatsoever. And of course, I attribute that to another thing: she came from a large family. And she—among the older people, she’s the sole survivor out of that. I think that—of course, she lost a brother here recently. He was a cigarette-smoker. Excessive cigarette smoker. I mean, every minute of the day he’d smoke a cigarette. So, I attribute his death and his passing to his addiction to nicotine.

	M:	It’ll get you.



	W:	Yeah. And so, that makes her the sole survivor among her family group. And she got to the point that she had no interest solving anything.

	M:	Well, on the topic of voting, when was the first time you voted?



	W:	Believe it or not, my mother registered me when I was in the Service overseas.



And I had not missed part of it since then. I don’t care if they electing a dogcatcher, or if it’s a runoff, or any kind; I’m going to be there. And I am primarily a Democrat, but now, under certain conditions I can support a Republican. Because you take, when Goldwater ran? I liked Goldwater’s view. You see, all the other presidents we had had up until Kennedy, up until to him, they always feared China and Russia. The Cold War. Goldwater say, “To hell





with your Russia and China.” And I liked that point of view. [Laughter] And so, I voted for him. Yeah. Yeah.

	M:	So, did your mother vote when you were growing up?



	W:	Oh, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, I saw that myself. She had me raised. What’s this—the VFW. When they organized the VFW here, she had me already enrolled in that when I got back from overseas, the Veteran of Foreign Wars.

Yeah.



	M:	So, she was very active in all that? W:	Yeah.

	M:	Were there a lot of discussions of politics at your house and that kind of thing?



Did people—



	W:	She wasn’t hardly educated, but she had the most brilliant form of common sense of anybody that I’ve known in my life.

	M:	Very practical. Practical-minded. W:	Yeah.

	M:	Do you know if your great-grandmother ever voted?



	W:	I don’t believe so. Mm-mm. No, no, no. I’m sure she didn’t. They had all of those inhibitors here in effect back then; the poll tax and all this sort of thing. Many people didn’t see the importance enough to pay that little tax. I wouldn’t allow that to keep me from voting. Mm-mm.

	M:	But it was very important to your mother that you vote. W:	Yeah. Yeah, yeah.





	M:	Okay. How did your family react when you got involved with the Civil Rights Movement? Were they—?

	W:	[Laughter] Oh, funny thing: when I joined the suit to desegregate Alachua County Public Schools, my mother wasn’t all that much interested in me sending my boy to the school himself. She wasn’t. Because you take, for example, my boy, even in kindergarten; it was the first day he went to school. He knew his alphabets. He knew his home address. He knew his telephone number. He knew his parents’ full name. He knew his address. He knew all those things. I taught him all those things prior to. Because when I got his first report card from the kindergarten teacher, she placed a comment on there, “Rodney is very smart. He’s capable of doing second-grade work.” He was in kindergarten. So, I taught him all those things before he went to school. And then of course, when the suit was finally handed down to desegregate schools in Alachua County, it involved four students rather than three. It involved three high school students, and the one elementary student. The one elementary was out to Kirby Smith. When it come to his teachers, he’s never had but one Black teacher his whole life during time when he was in school. And that was his kindergarten teacher. Because when he got over to Kirby Smith, I also applied for him to go to P.K. Yonge. And that’s where he graduated, from P.K. Yonge, with honors. And I knew he was college- bound in the crib. I knew he was college-bound, he was going go to college.

Even though he didn’t stay. But he’s a chemist. And he’s worked in the field of chemicals now for about thirty years or more. He’s fifty-four. I don’t know if you knew about it, but there’s a chemical company in Alachua?





	M:	Vaguely, I don’t—



	W:	Oh, okay. Well, there’s a chemical company there. And he is the so-called HNIC. He’s in charge next to the boss and whatnot. He has an office with a private White secretary.

	M:	Doing pretty well, then; I guess that still worked out. W:	Yeah.

	M:	Did he—what was it like for him going to the elementary? Do you remember, was he ever—

	W:	He had a little problem with one teacher, as I can recall, at Kirby Smith, and I went to see her. And it was about morning math. Because I would sit down with him and I could arrive at the answers and whatnot, but they were interested in the process, which I wasn’t familiar with. So, I went to see this lady about that. She said, “Well, Mr. Welch, don’t you bother him with that; you let us do it.” [Laughter] So, I backed off from that there. Yeah. And as soon as he got up in the grades, I had him transferred to P.K. Yonge.

	M:	I see. But it wasn’t tough for him to be the only Black student in those classes or anything like that?

	W:	No. Mm-mm-mm. No. Well, it’s a funny thing; now, you take now—children have neutral minds unless they’ve been directly trained to be hostile, or be racist, or whatnot. They have to be taught that; they won’t do it on their own. Because I can recall this: when I was at Mebane, a White family moved into the city of Alachua, and they had two children. And they thought that Mebane school was integrated; it was supposed to happen anyway, but it wasn’t. And they took and





enrolled their kids there. And they went to school there for, oh, I imagine a week or two. And then finally, for some reason, they moved out. But the kids were very receptive of it when they came there. Yeah.

	M:	So, one thing I had forgotten to ask about, I had been meaning to: the university. Did the White students ever interact with the Black community in any way in the past? Or what was the university’s relationship—

	W:	Oh, yes! Many—well, you take most of the members of CORE, they were University of Florida students. Students or—you’ll recall one or two that I’ve named before, were professors at the university. Yeah. And as a result, we held many of our Civil Right meetings in some of the most prominent White churches in Gainesville. This place was a lot different from places like I’d say Mississippi or Georgia, things of that sort.

	M:	So, they maintained that kind of code of separateness, but weren’t as violent about it I guess?

	W:	No, mm-mm.



	M:	Before the Civil Rights Movement, did White students ever come out to any of the Black neighborhoods or anything?

	W:	I don’t think so. [Laughter] Because let me tell you something: now, you take before the school became all bi-sexual, was an all-boys’ school, these boys used to do some of the darnedest things in the world. See, because they were immune to arrest for anything they might do by the city cops. City cops couldn’t touch them. The only person that could touch them would have to be the sheriff’s department of the state patrol. Only one. And they’d come out into the Black





community and do some of the darnedest things that you ever seen. For example, a simple thing, they had the old outhouses and things. Didn’t have sewage and things of that sort. And they’d go through the Black neighborhood and push the old outhouses over and all this kind of thing. [Laughter] And make it back to the campus and things. Or either in cases where there was a little racial confrontation, city police couldn’t do anything to them at all. No. I don’t—they used to do some of the darnedest things.

	M:	So, sometimes they’d push things over and that kind of thing.



	W:	Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Because I can recall, for example, in 1939, Florida played Villanova for Homecoming that year. And I was working at the College Inn at night. They had the biggest crowd out here at Florida Field that they had ever had in Gainesville. And I was on my way—I along with two of my friends were walking, going home, after the place closed at night. And we got there on the corner of University Avenue and 13th Street. And four or five White guys came by, riding in a convertible coupe car. And when they got out, they got out of the car and came to attack me and the other two guys that with me. The other guys ran; I didn’t run. But anyway, one of them hauled off, man, he hit me—wham! And it almost knocked me dizzy. “Can you catch them other niggers? Let’s see can’t you catch them.” And so, I tried to catch them, because I had no choice. I got back to work the next day, I was telling Mr. Hamlin about it, I was saying, what had happened, I was saying, I went and I bought me a switchblade knife. I brought a new knife on my job. [Laughter] I say, “Now, can’t do that to me again!” Yeah. Yeah, they made me try to catch them. Yeah.





	M:	Was that the only memory like that that you have, or did that kind of thing happen—

	W:	Oh, yes, yes, yes. Yes. Now, there was this organization that bring in prominent speakers, I mean, to speak. They had Jesse Jackson here, and they Oprah Winfrey, we even had on here.

	M:	Organization.



	W:	And they had ex-president Clinton, and they had him here. And I’ve come out each time to hear them lecture.

	M:	I’m not sure who that is who would’ve put that—but it’s through the university, you’re talking about.

	W:	Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. Because I had the privilege of telling Jesse, “Man, you in the wrong position. You are the logical successor to Martin Luther King, and you should have been, rather than that Rainbow Coalition.” Because Jesse a pretty smart guy. And I think he does his homework, too. And I like that about any individual.

	M:	Well, so what were your thoughts when Barack Obama was elected president?



	W:	Oh, man! I was so joyous, I cried. Because I never expected to see that in my time. I really cried. And I wish you could see it, I have a picture from his wife. See, I gave my campaign contribution I sent to them. And they sent me this picture, and she personally has her name on it and my name on it. Caption on that written to me. And I like that. But he and his wife and two children. And I like it. Yeah. But I realize this: now, there are those who despise the idea that he is a man who is an offspring of former slaves, and he is now president of the United





States of America, and as such, he is the leader of the so-called “free world.” Some people can’t accept that. Because just yesterday, he received some poisonous something, was sent to him through the mail.

	M:	But you didn’t think to expect that even when you were involved in the Civil Rights Movement and that kind of thing?

	W:	No, unh-uh, no. I couldn’t see that far. No, I could see the desegregation of the schools. In following the suits, the different suits and whatnot involving segregated schools; I could see that. Because I remember when—and I can’t think of the case, but there was a case wherein the guy was admitted to the school by orders of the court. But they sat him outside the classroom, in front of the door. He couldn’t sit in the classroom where you interact with the other kids in the class. And the court came back and said, “No, no; he has to be placed in that classroom.” Well, when you looked at those cases coming on down, I think it was inevitable that Brown v. Topeka Board, a change was going to come about.

	M:	But the presidency was a different—I mean, I know Rosa Williams talked about, she actually said that working on the Obama campaign, I mean just around trying to get people to vote and things like that, she thought that reminded her of Civil Rights in terms of people working together and that kind of thing. Do you have any thoughts on that?

	W:	Let me say this. [Laughter] I think that there are some leaders who receive recognition that they don’t rightfully deserve. I really do. Because there, like for example right now, there’s the Oscar or something police station—Oscar Lewis Sub-Police Station on Northeast 1st Street. You know where that is?





	M:	Yeah. Yeah.



	W:	There. And he received all that recognition because of the fact that he was the military police officer at Camp Blanding during the war, and he came back here to live, and they hired him to be one of the first Black police officers here. And he was a very arrogant type of individual. Because he and I ended up having a confrontation once. And someone remarked me, “Here come Sergeant Lewis!” And I said, “Damn Sergeant Lewis!” And so he come up to my car, “I don’t play.” “Well, let you know I don’t play either.” [Laughter] Yeah. I don’t play. But, and so they named that little police station and whatnot after him, and I don’t think that he deserved that kind of attention.

	M:	Were there other Black police who you thought stood out more?



	W:	Well, there were Coleman, a guy named Colman; he was a police officer, too. A Black. He was the most highly-intelligent Black cop that I knew.

	M:	I see. What was the—I mean, before Civil Rights, what was the relationship between the White cops and the Black community? Was there any level of harassment, or did they kind of keep that separate?

	W:	Well, you had some people here that was tough. I’m trying to think of the guy’s name, I can’t think of his name. He was very tough on Blacks. And like you see today, for example, kids can go into pool rooms. Back during those times when I was coming up, we were not allowed to go into pool rooms. We went into them at our own risk. But you were caught in there by the police officer, he would take his big old belt off and he would put a whipping on you about being in there.

	M:	That was the White cops?





	W:	Mmhm. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. And then you take when they did get around to hiring Black cops, now, Black cops could not arrest Whites, you know. He had to call for a White cop to come and get you. [Laughter] I couldn’t arrest you, [inaudible 2:35:41]! At one time, this guy Coleman I tell you about was the police officer, and they sent him to Alachua to arrest at that time a police officer who was White in Alachua—about something that he had done. I tell you what he had happened to be doing: he was called, he went to his car, and he stick his head in there and he rolled the glass up. And he would—[rustling noise]. And they sent Walter to come and arrest him. And they say to bring Walter there to arrest him, say he attempt to for the gun. “Don’t touch that gun!” [Laughter] And see, Walter cuffed him and arrested him. But he had a reputation among Blacks; he would beat them boys like mad. And at the same time, I don’t find anything terribly wrong with him, but he was crazy about Black women. This guy was. See, like, I had a guy, he and I worked together, he was a student at University of Florida. When I was cooking at P.K. Yonge, we had two dining rooms; we had one for the P.K. Yonge students, the other one for the University of Florida students, all in the same building. And you know the students’ dining room was only open for lunch, and then it closed down. And then the other dining room remained open. And so, then what we would do, in our spare time, was congregate in this kids’ lunch room. It was a White girl working there, and she came from the New England states, where she hadn’t been accustomed to being around Blacks. And she sort of develop a crush on a cousin of mine who was my assistant cook. And she was walking up in between his legs and whatnot, just as bold—and so, this White boy





that worked with me was on the golf team at the University of Florida. And he had been observing this. And so, he came one day and asked my cousin Freddie, he say, “Freddie. I know that girl and you are good friends. Would you like me to get out for you? I tell you what: if you get me a nice, decent Black girl, I’ll get her out for you.” And my cousin say, “Man, hell no!” He say, “You telling damn lies, I been watching you.” And not only that, he went on to tell her that his father had been the police chief down at the county that Leesburg is in.

	M:	Oh—.



	W:	Okay, but his father had been the police chief down there. And his father had told—he told us that his father had told him, say, “Now, a White man isn’t a true redneck until he has sexual relations with a Black woman.” And he say his daddy told him that! [Laughter] Oh, we laughed about that! Say, “he’s not a true redneck until then.”

	M:	Was it difficult back then—when did you first start seeing interracial relationships in Gainesville that could be publicly out there?

	W:	Well, you take—ever since the [19]60s, it’s been gradually, slowly coming into being. Because if you go to these shopping centers and these things of that sort, you see more and more biracial couples now than ever. And I think that people beginning to accept it now.

	M:	But it took a while?



	W:	Mmhm. I think we going eventually get there. We going make America America. I



think so.



	M:	That’s a nice way to put it, I like that.





	W:	Yeah.



	M:	Well, we made a pretty good run of it today, so unless there’s anything else you’d like to add, we can probably close.

	W:	Okay. Well, you call that boy, tell him to come here and pick me up. M:	Okay. [Laughter] I’ll tell him that. Well, thank you very much.

	W:	Alrighty. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Amanda Nelson, September 12, 2013 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, August 31, 2018

	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 23, 2019