AAHP 111; Holmes; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 111 Gail Holmes

African American History Project (AAHP) Interview conducted by Marna Weston on August 21, 2010

8 minutes | 8 pages



Abstract: Ms. Holmes was interviewed at the Historic Marker Dedication and Jerkins High School Reunion in Perry, Florida. The beginning of the interview is Ms. Holmes’ short experience at Jerkins. Most of the interview is Ms. Holmes frying chicken for the event. There is discussion of a dance at Jerkins where James Brown’s “Papa Got a Brand New Bag” was performed. At the end of the interview, Ms. Holmes states she thinks three hundred people are going to show up to the reunion.





Keywords: [African American History; Taylor County, Florida; Jerkins High School]





















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 111

Interviewee: Gail Holmes Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: August 21, 2010



	W:	This is Marna Weston with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program at the Jerkins Community Center in Perry, Florida at the Historic Marker Dedication and at the, I guess, it’s a class reunion for Jerkins High as well.

	H:	Uh-huh.



	W:	And I’m speaking with Gail Holmes. It’s hot out here, I can tell you that. That there is something frying, I guess that’s catfish.

	H:	Fried chicken.



	W:	Fried chicken. Well, thank you for talking to me Ms. Holmes. H:	Thank you.

	W:	Okay, you were kind enough to remind me that I interviewed your mother. H:	Yes.

	W:	And so we are really excited to have her oral history in the collection. Could you tell me when and where you were born please?

	H:	I was born in Perry, Florida on September 19, 1956.



	W:	Okay, and have you always lived here or have you lived other places? H:	I lived other places. I lived in Atlanta, Daytona, Arcadia.

	W:	Arcadia? Wow, I’ve never been there but I know where that is. H:	Uh-huh.

	W:	That’s down in the cut. H:	Yeah, it’s in the cut.

	W:	[Laughter] Well, what do you think about this reunion that’s taking place this weekend?





	H:	Well, I’m so glad they are getting it together. It’s been a long time and a lot of them showed up home, and that’s the good thing about it.

	W:	Uh-huh. Now you went to school here but not the high school but elementary school?

	H:	Yeah, my last year here was in sixth grade. W:	Okay, and what year was that?

	H:	Uh, it had to be about [19]60s. Let me see—



	W:	I’m going to step right here on the other side of you while you’re getting that information for me. I don’t want to get knocked by the door.

	H:	Okay, I was in eighth grade in 1970—I graduated in [19]76 so it had to be like about [19]68 or [19]69.

	W:	Okay and what are your memories here going to Jerkins school?



	H:	My fifth grade teacher, Ms. Blue, used to sprinkle all that garland on the floor. [Laughter]

	W:	What happened?



	H:	She just loved the garland that she used to have there. The whole garland thing, she just have it all over the room.

	W:	And what was her name? H:	Ms. Blue.

	W:	Ms. Blue.



	H:	Uh-huh.



	W:	Okay, what did Ms. Blue teach?



	H:	She was my homeroom teacher, they teached all subjects.





	W:	Okay. She was your homeroom teacher.



	H:	Yes, it was just basic. We didn’t too much change classes over here, we just stayed in one room.

	W:	Okay well now it’s definitely hot, you say you are frying some chicken here. I’m going to get the microphone a little closer, try to get the sound of that,

[Sizzling]



	W:	You have some flour here, and we got two vats going with oil. What is the secret to making good fried chicken especially outside like this?

	H:	Just deep fry it in your seasons.



	W:	Uh-huh. Now as seasons—is that a secret or can you tell me?



	H:	It’s a secret. [Laughter] Well I put garlic, seasoned salt, black pepper, and hot sauce, and marinate it all in together and then bread it.

	W:	Now I’m noticing you’re not giving me any measurements, you just told me some of what—

	H:	No, I don’t use no measurements. W:	No measurements at all?

	H:	No, I’m so used to doing it, I just dip it. W:	You can kind of look at it and tell?

H:  Yeah, yeah I look. W:  Oh, it looks good. H:  Yup.

	W:	Okay, I wish I could describe how it smells. But it smells real good too and we are going to have a luncheon here.





H:   Yup.



W:  Okay. What do you think about having this celebration here at Jerkins? Why is this important?

H:  It’s important just to get back our heritage and all the remembrance of everybody when school was around. An older person that can really tell you about Jerkins— that young man over there on that phone—

W:   Uh-huh.



	H:	I think he graduated from over here. W:	And what’s his name?

	H:	His name is Isaac Wear. W:	Isaac Will?

	H:	Wear



W:   Isaac Wear.



H:   Uh-huh.



	W:	Okay, I’ll be sure to talk to Mr. Where. Now you’re sticking the fork here in this vat—

	H:	Yeah I’m going to try to stir it up, yeah. W:	Okay, now why is that important?

	H:	I’m stirring it so it doesn’t stick and burn.



	W:	Okay, yeah we don’t want to—it’s got a nice golden brown— H:	Yeah, see how it got that little one that stick right there?

	W:	Oh yeah, there’s the one. H:	Yeah.





	W:	Well we’ll give that somebody that don’t act right. H:	I’ll take it off. [Laughter]

	W:	Okay, we are moving over to the second vat. These haven’t got quite as golden brown yet. Oh, and you use propane.

	H:	Yeah.



	W:	Okay, is there a reason that you use propane?



	H:	No, we just—someone’s storeroom, we just had these cookers so we decided to fire it and try it so that these dehumidify we use more grease in these pots here.

	W:	Uh-huh It looks like you can get burned. H:	Huh? Burned?

	W:	It looks—have you ever got burned? H:	No, we fry fish and everything like this.

	W:	Uh-huh What is your best memory of going to the Jerkins school?



	H:	Like when we used to have our Mayday dance like “Play in the Maypole.” And we have socials and our plays there in the lunchroom. I remember one time, he passed away now, his name is Jerell Walker, we were in fourth grade—Ms.

Evans was our homeroom teacher—and each homeroom had to do a thing, a steam in the Mayday dance, and he was James Brown, me, Gail Holmes, Renee Wutherington, Winnifer Pattway, Belisa Curry, and Beverly Richardson. We was his go-go girls and boy he was short, he could really do that thing. And we won that year.

	W:	[Laughter] So he did the split and everything?



	H:	Yeah he did it. We took the cape off him, Jerell was bad.





	W:	Uh-huh. What song did y’all do?



	H:	We did it off of, [singing] “Please,” I think that song, W:	Okay, so you were in the choir a little bit too.

	H:	It was “Papa Got a Brand New Bag.” W:	“Papa Got a Brand New Bag.”

	H:	Yup.



	W:	That’s the stuff.



	H:	[speaking to another person] Y’all remember when Jerell did that? [unknown speaker]: Who?

	H:	And Ms, Evans was our homeroom teacher? And we were Jerell’s go-go girls and we won the Mayday dance when Jerell did James Brown off of “Papa Got a Brand New Bag?” With a cape and stuff?

	W:	Well he’s smiling, he remembers.



	H:	[Laughter] Yeah, he remember. Yup. W:	So now how long does it take the— H:	About twenty-five to thirty minutes.

	W:	Okay now that one over there, that’s getting the color that the ones right there have.

	H:	Uh-huh, yup.



	W:	So I could probably do this if I watched you for a little bit. I never cooked this much chicken at one time though.

	H:	It’s the same thing.



	W:	Uh-huh. How are you doing Mr. Hughes?





	H:	That ain’t Mr. Hughes. W:	Oh, that was his cousin.

	H:	[Laughter] I don’t think they came here. W:	Okay, well they should be.

	H:	Isaac! Come on here and give this man some point about Jerkins. I didn’t go no farther than elementary. You know about the high school part. Come on over here and talk. What you remember about Jerkins?

	U1:	Everything.



	W:	He said he know everything. H:	Come on over here.

	W:	I’ll come where you are, sir. H:	He’ll come to you.

	W:	[Laughter]



	H:	See that’s how to ask. W:	[Laughter]

	H:	He ain’t got time? Tell him to back up a little bit. Go tell him to back up a little bit. W:	Okay. I’ll get him to do it. If I had some cards I would bust out some spades.

	H:	Uh-huh. They probably got some in the truck.



	W:	[Laughter] Well I appreciate you talking to me while you’re working. . . Well there is obviously a lot of history here today.

	H:	Yeah.



	W:	Uh-huh. I’m really sorry your mother couldn’t make it but hopefully she’ll get to New Brooklyn tomorrow.





	H:	Yeah. I hope she get back in time. And well, my brother couldn’t make it, he had to work. He went over here to the high school. And I have one brother dead; he went here. He finished from over here. And one in a nursing home that finished from here.

	W:	Uh-huh.



	H:	But other than that I just went like to sixth grade.



	W:	How many people do you think are going to show up here today because we had about one hundred people last night at the registration?

	H:	Oh, about three hundred. W:	You think so?

	H:	Probably about three hundred. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Liz Gray, May 10, 2013



	Audio edited by:	Anna Jimenez, June 18, 2013 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 18, 2019