AAHP 115; Newberry; Page 10

Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb



Samuel Proctor Oral History Program

College of Liberal Arts and Sciences



Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


The image part with relationship ID rId7 was not found in the file.




241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu





The image part with relationship ID rId1 was not found in the file.



AAHP 115 Thelma Walker Newberry African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on August 21, 2010 25 minutes | 10 pages



Abstract: Thelma Walker Newberry reflects on growing up in Perry, Florida, and attending the Black school in Perry that preceded Jerkins High School. She describes some of the moves her family made to different parts of town, a particularly memorable teacher, and some of the changes that she has seen in the community over time. Her school stopped at the tenth grade, so to graduate high school she needed to be awarded a scholarship, and she describes commuting by train.





Keywords: [African American History; Taylor County, Florida; Jerkins High School]



Standards

1. SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.











































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 115

Interviewee: Thelma Walker Newberry Interviewer: Marna Weston

Date: August 21, 2010



	W:	This is Marna Weston of the Sam Proctor Oral History Program on August 21, 2010. I’m speaking with Ms. Newberry at the Jerkins Cultural Center and historic marker dedication. Ms. Newberry, thank you very much for speaking with me today.

	N:	You’re welcome.



	W:	You can just speak into the air, I’ll move the microphone for you. Can you state your full name, please?

	N:	My name is Thelma Walker Newberry.



	W:	My mother’s name is Thelma, too. When and where were you born?



	N:	I said right here, but I was born about two miles, in Springdale, Florida. And that’s where I was born. A sawmill was down there then.

	W:	What is the day and date of your birth? N:	12-30-[19]21.

	W:	So you were born in 1921. And you’ve always lived right here in this area?



	N:	Uh, except when—No, not always because I’ve lived in Jacksonville, and got married. And I’ve lived in Washington, D.C. I lived at—I wasn’t right in Washington. It was next to Washington.

	W:	Fairfax County?



	N:	Yeah, in Virginia, I almost had it. I can’t think.



	W:	Yes ma’am, well there’s a lot of noise in here, too.





	N:	I lived there for a long time because I was working for a family, he was a rear admiral. And I worked there for a while. My home is still here in Perry, my parents, my mother ‘cause my father died when I was about 13.

	W:	What were your mother and father’s names?



		N:		My father’s name was George Walker, my mother’s name was Rosa Walker. W:	And where were they from?

	N:	They were from Georgia, he was from Alapaha, and I guess my mom was from Alapaha, too. I got it written down but I just can’t remember.

	W:		Do you remember your grandparents? Let’s start with your momma’s side. Who was your mother’s mother and father?

	N:	My mother’s mother was, her name was Amanda. I have a sister named after Amanda. Amanda Williams, but then she—my mother’s daddy had died so she married again. They called her Miss Mandy Scarborough.

	W:	What was her husband’s name before he died?



	N:	My granddaddy? I believe it was Franklin Williams. Franklin. W:	And where were they from?

	N:	They all lived in Georgia. I tell you what gonna happen, I’m fixing to get my breath. [Coughing]

	W:	Would you like to sit up differently?



	N:		It doesn’t make any difference. I have a breathing problem, and if I talk, my voice gets slower and my breath goes out.

	W:	Would you like to take a break for a little bit? N:	Well, while I’m going what’s the next question?





W:  I’d like to talk to you about your dad’s parents. N:  Well, my daddy’s momma was named Harriet. W:  My daddy’s momma’s name is Harriet, too.

N:  Her name was Harriet Rhymes, R-H-Y-M-E-S. And my step-granddaddy was Frank Rhymes, that’s his name. But I don’t know my daddy’s daddy’s name. I didn’t know my real granddaddy’s name.

W:  In here this Jerkins High School celebration must make you think back to your past in this community. What was it like here when you were going to school?

	N:	We went to school I think first it was an old school. And I think I first started going to school it was in a church. And I can’t remember if the church is um, and now all of the time I have breath just like this I had just talked about it and talked about it. When I first started going to school we were going in a church, a church building. It was down there on, it’s 19th now, but it was a dirt road then. And we lived over in another area, place called Ratrow. And then momma and daddy bought the land over on this side of this, they called this Cambyhill, and they bought land on Cambyhill. We built a house and they moved all of a sudden and my daddy died and it’s, but I—Miss Braswell and she was the meanest lady I ever seen, but Miss Braswell and she was so, I remember learning them ABCs, I remember that much. She was an old lady and wore then long dresses and had high top shoes. But she was very very strict. And she didn’t mind whipping. Now you can’t touch children, so then when we moved we didn’t have any bus ‘cause we had to walk to school and I had sisters and brothers who were older. And then would bring me on over there and we were moved over here. We were right





at the back of the school. But I guess we did all right. I guess we did all right, because I can’t remember and after daddy died it was five girls up but I don’t ever remember needing anything. But she always worked for somebody that had children, and she worked for a mother who had children and their clothes, the clothes that they wore for this year and next year. You know how White people buy their children’s clothes.

	W:	How far did you have to walk to go to school?



	N:	Oh, well, the railroad track, I don’t know how far we’d go. About three or four miles, but it was houses because where we lived we would have to come across the railroad track and then we go home, but it was about four or five miles.

	W:	When you walked to school you went with your brothers and sisters together?



What are your brothers’ and sisters’ names?



	N:	Okay, the oldest one was Amanda, named after my grandmomma, and the very oldest sister was grown then, but she was married, she moved out. Then there was a brother William, W.F. they called him, name was William. I was next. Then my sister Dorothy, and this one was Treva, she’s over there, my sister, she’s on the other side. She’s in a wheelchair, she can’t walk either. The rest, that was all there were. ‘Cause I had another brother, I vaguely remember him. But he got killed, he was, he wasn’t going to school, and he got killed. Okay, so that was my family. And that was all of us, there were five girls and one boy.

	W:	Do you remember when you were growing up any difficulties in the community, ‘cause I heard stories about schools burning down, and having problems with





employers and stuff. What was the community like? Did people get along here or were there sometimes problems? Do you know anything about any of that?

	N:	My point is I don’t remember. Like I told you I don’t remember like you said, I don’t ever remember anything going wrong or ever remember going without anything that I needed. But I know the school burned down, but I don’t know why, you know. They didn’t let children know two ways about that or [inaudible 12:35].

	W:	They were trying to protect you all from that. Well, let’s just talk about the area in general. You’ve seen a lot of changes around here. It must look a lot different.

What are some things that have changed since you were a girl growing up here?



	N:	Oh, lord, everything. Everything, everything. Lot of stuff changed.



	W:	Well, we have a lot of cars here now. Do you remember when there were horse and buggies here?

	N:	No, because we had a car before daddy died. We had a car. W:	What kind of car did you have?

	N:	A Ford drop lever, what I’m telling you about you all know? W:	Model T?

	N:	I’ll have to, the- W:	Crank in the front?

	N:	The lever was on the side. The shift, I thought it was the lever, but the shift I guess it was, on the side.

	W:	Did a lot of people have cars, or was your daddy one of the few people that had them?

	N:	He was one of the few people that had a car.





	W:	Did you all take trips places in the car?



	N:	We didn’t do, I don’t remember going out here. We might have, we did a little ‘cause I don’t remember too much.

	W:	When you graduated from school, where did you graduate from?



	N:	I graduated from William, what I was telling, I did not graduate from Jerkins, but I went to Jerkins. But it wasn’t Jerkins then, it was just a Black school. I went, to the colored school used to go. And I went, I went here because see when we moved we was right there. See this school, we lived right across over there, so we walked to school. Didn’t have any problem. Wait a minute. And I went to school until 10th grade because that’s as far as it went. And after 10th grade, you had to go somewhere else if you wanted to grow up and go to school. So my momma and the pastor that we had there he, um, gave us—Momma used to go soul stations and conventions and things, and our pastor got me a scholarship that year. I left the 12th grade on that year. But I was all ready to go to school then because I got a scholarship from Laval.

	W:	What was the pastor’s name?



	N:	Okay. I’m trying to get the pastor’s name. I say I got all this here, and let you read it and see for yourself. But he got me the scholarship, then I went over to Laval school, and there was another girl from Foley who both of us we went to Laval school at the same time. And I had to, we had to get up early in the morning, and catch what we called the LOPG, the train and it going wood there, and the train was going wood, and we would get on and it would take us from 7 o’clock in the morning ‘til about 1 o’clock to get to Laval. Because you were on that old train,





and when we got to Davie, Florida he would stop and we couldn’t ride in the back, we rode in the front. Up near the engine, and our uniforms were navy blue and white, we had white mini blouses and by the time we got to school that dress was the dirtiest. Because we had to sit all the smoke was coming right back in on us. So then after—and mostly we’d always laugh ‘cause Mr. Harris’s wife would be down there waiting, he would have to get the wood, they had a rack built and somebody would keep wood on the rack and we would laugh because she would always have his dinner, he made it his business to get there at 12 o’clock and she would have his lunch ready for him at 12 o’clock while he’s putting more wood on the train. It was very interesting once you get started, it was very interesting. But what I did I have it all written down.

	W:	Do you remember the first time that you voted?



	N:	Yeah, yeah, the first time we voted we didn’t have any problem but we had to walk, you know, up to the voting place and you always had somebody with you because you know what was going to happen in the vote. And I have a lot of interesting stuff because I used to be right here. I used to have Head Start program. Before here, I guess about 13, 14 years and when she was talking about, she went down to Steinhatchee, I went down to Steinhatchee to set up a Head Start program. They said I couldn’t do it, but I did. Head Start for the children, ‘cause I used to, what I started off doing. Oh, see, it’s coming back to me. And when I went to school and I came back and I put in for a job here and one of the ladies was working down to Gibson Steel, and you would have to get





somebody to take you, but another girl was working and she was teaching school also, and when she was doing, I’m rambling now.

	W:	No no no, you’re making perfect sense.



	N:	And I got the job that she had because she had moved down to Tampa. And I worked, I made $40 a month and then I had to cook ‘cause I was really good I started with a food service and I’d have to cook for the children in the morning and they’d bring their little things from home, but I’d do the cooking and the boys would have to cut the wood and make the fire. And I had to cook over the stove.

	W:	Did you ever sit with your family and listen to the radio together? Listen to programs on the radio?

	N:	No, we didn’t have a radio. I guess that’s how I learned to read a lot probably. We didn’t have a radio. My sister she was living in Ohio then, whenever she would come on down, they had a radio in their car, and that’s when we would listen in. And then eventually we finally got one.

	W:	Do you remember where you were when you heard that World War II had started?

	N:	Uhn-uh.



	W:	How about when President Kennedy was killed? N:	Yeah, but I can’t remember where I was.

	W:	Martin Luther King?



	N:	Yeah, I remember about him but I still can’t pinpoint things. Yeah we remember that ‘cause everything was in a turmoil when he got killed everything was in a turmoil.





	W:	Well, I would love to catch up with you and see some of the stuff that you have written down. Let me just ask you this: We’re here at the Jerkins celebration and everybody is happy and laughing and talking about things and sharing good stories about what Jerkins was like. And you’re here and you’re being honored as well for being part of the legacy. What do you think about that legacy about Jerkins High School that people are still celebrating it today?

	N:	It’s wonderful. ‘Cause you don’t need to get rid of everything. We need to keep some things. And we are so quick to get mixed up with everything we bring in, everything and mixing it all up. You need to remember, because sometimes I don’t know, the things I know. I tried to share it but people didn’t remember.

That’s the reason I write it down. But sometimes if you come in, would you please let me know and I will get the information and give it you.

	W:	I will get your information and next time I come to Perry I will come to see you first thing I do.

	N:	Okay all right, all right. W:	I thank you very much.

	N:	I’ve been a lot of places ‘cause I have a lot of experiences that I’ve been with, and all over the things I would not have known before I know it. Because I’ve been all to Bahamas, everything, you know—you can take your parents, the parent of the year was from Perry, from here. I’m sorry I don’t have much strength.

	W:	Before you get up, I have a form— [End of interview]











	Transcribed by:	Richard Brust; September 2, 2015 Audit edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez; October 5, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 19, 2019