AAHP 729; Boatwright; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 729 Regis Boatwright 10-1-2019 Interviewed by Joe Hartman on October 1, 2019 98 minutes | 30 pages



Abstract: In this tape, interviewer Joe Hartman sits down with Ocala, Florida, elder Regis Boatwright. Boatwright recalls her childhood as an African American in segregated Ocala, where she lived with her mother, grandparents, and siblings.

Boatwright remembers visiting her father alongside her sister for the summers in Long Island, New York and recalls the difference between this environment and her hometown in Ocala. She remembers her mother’s hard work as a nurse and her father’s background as a college basketball player at A&T in South Carolina. Boatwright recalls her educational background, remembering how her family members saved up money to send one another to college. She remembers her time in college both in central Florida and later at Cal State in Los Angeles. Boatwright remembers returning to Florida to work in Health and Rehabilitative Services and becoming the first black social worker in Levy County, Florida. Later, she spent thirty-five years working as a school social worker, where she primarily aided indigent families in Marian County, Florida. As a mother, Boatwright remembers encouraging her children, who attended public school during integration, to join the NAACP and become involved in the Civil Rights movement. Boatwright ends by recalling several of the individuals who inspired and influenced her on her path towards activism and social work.





Keywords: [Ocala, Florida, Long Island, Los Angles, education, social work, Levy County, Marian County, NAACP, integration, Civil Rights]



AAHP 729

Interviewee: Regis Boatwright Interviewer: Joe Hartman Date: October 1, 2019

	H:	Good morning. My name is Joe Hartman and I am here this morning with Regis Boatwright at the Marian County Public Library in Ocala, Florida. It is October 1st, 2019 and I’m gonna ask Mrs. Boatwright to tell us a little about yourself, her background, maybe about her parents and grandparents and her time growing up and about her career and anything else she cares to share with us this morning. So, with that, let me ask you—and I’m going to call Mrs. Boatwright Regis because she and I have known each other for—Golly, I hate to think how many years. Thirty some years, I’d say.

	B:	Yes.



	H:	Because we both were employed with the Marian County School system. So could you please tell us your full name?

	B:	My name is Regis Curby Boatwright. H:	And where and when were you born?

	B:	I was born right here in Ocala, Florida, May 2nd, 1948.



	H:	Okay, 1948. I’m gonna let the whole world know that we were born in the same year. I beat you by a couple of months.

	B:	Oh, okay.



	H:	So Curby is your maiden name? B:	My maiden name.

	H:	So I’m assuming that your parents were named Curby. Could you tell us anything about your grandparents first and then anything about your parents?

	B:	Okay well my mom’s people—who I was closer to—my grandmother’s name was



Pancheta Mazon M-A-Z-O-N Jones. And my grandfather was Willie Jones. That





was my maternal grandparents. My paternal grandparents were Luther B. Junior and Annie D. Curby, all of Ocala.

	H:	All of Ocala?



	B:	Mmhm.



	H:	Starting with either the Jones family or the Curby family, how many generations back do they go?

	B:	Well, I knew my great grandfather—paternal great-grandfather—I knew him.



That’s my grandmother’s dad, his name was Luther Goldman and he was from the Santos area. Santos is about eleven miles from—

	H:	I’ll maybe as you about Santos later. Particularly with the barge, canal, and everything that happened.

	B:	I don’t know a lot about that.



	H:	Don’t know about that, okay. So they came from—and how did they get to Santos, do you have any idea?

	B:	No, I don’t.



	H:	So that’s as far back as you can—



	B:	I was told that they were GEE-chis, they migrated from South Carolina area, I don’t know for sure.

	H:	And this would have been before or after the Civil War? B:	After.

	H:	Okay, so they came down after the Civil War and settled in the Santos area? B:	Yeah.

	H:	And you said that you knew him a little bit?





	B:	Mmhm. I knew “Granddaddy Tony,” that’s what we called him. H:	Tell us a little about him.

	B:	Great-granddaddy Tony. H:	Right.

	B:		Well, I remember that at their house he did something with wood, I remember a saw, this great big saw that he would saw wood and I think he would sell the wood. It was like old lumber or old tree branches or whatever. I remember him doing that—

	H:	Poke-wooding, perhaps or?



	B:	No, he wasn’t poke-wooding, he did straight from his backyard, he didn’t have a truck.

	H:	So maybe firewood then?



		B:	Yeah, maybe it was firewood. I don’t recall. H:		Okay, yeah.

	B:	I recall that peppermint patties and the lemon, that was his treat for us as we came to visit. He would give us peppermint patty and lemon.

	H:	So your family would go out there to visit your great granddad?



	B:	Yeah, not at Santos. They had moved to Ocala. He lived with his daughter, Annie Curby. He lived with her, his daughter, and her husband, Luther. Yeah, I don’t remember them living in Santos but I know that’s where they’re from.

	H:	But whenever you’d visit he’d have a peppermint patty. B:	Oh yeah. And Johnnie cookies.

	H:	What is a Johnnie cookie?





	B:	A Johnnie cookie is a great big cookie like that, it was like a shortbread cookie.



But it was big almost as a pancake.



	H:	Was that something that he or your grandmother would make? Or would he buy those?

	B:	No they would buy them. They would buy them from the store there on west Broadway, they were like five cents apiece or maybe three cents apiece, I can’t recall.

	H:	So were they living in the same area so you would walk to their house?



	B:	Well, no. They didn’t live in—well, I grew up, my maternal grandparents lived in downtown Ocala. My parental grandparents lived in west Ocala. So it was all dirt roads at that time, and yeah, it was easy to walk from downtown to west. Pine Street was a highway but it wasn’t a highway, it was a dirt highway. And when they paved it, it presented a little bit more.

	H:	So you grew up with four generations, then. So you knew your great grandfather and your grandparents and your parents and of course yourself and your siblings. And were they all close as a family or from one side to the other or were both sides of your family ever get together?

	B:	Well they knew each other, yes. Yes, we didn’t get together, per say, we did things separately but they did know each other. Yeah, my parents were Willie May Jones and Luther Curby Junior and my dad, my dad and parents they divorced when I must have been around nine years of age. They divorced. And my dad moved to New York. And we would go and visit him every summer, my sister and I. We spent our summers in New York then, on Long Island. Yeah.





	H:	In Long Island?



	B:	Mmhm that’s where he lived.



	H:	What did he do on Long Island?



	B:	He—let me see, what did he do? It was just manual labor; I think he worked for a furniture company. The last I remember, he did deliveries for a furniture company. Although he was college educated, he went to A&T in South Carolina. Where is A&T—South Carolina or North Carolina? He went to A&T college.

	H:	Okay. And what does the A&T stand for, do you know? B:	Agriculture and technical.

	H:	Agriculture and technical, okay. In either South Carolina or North Carolina., B:	It’s a historically-Black university.

	H:	So he went there from—I’m assuming—Howard High School in Ocala?



	B:	Yeah. Yeah. He went there and he played basketball, although he was short. But he was a good basketball player.

	H:	He played basketball for them. B:	For A&T, yes.

	H:	And graduated and came back to Ocala? B:	Mmhm, then me moved to New York.

	H	--married your mom, and had you and your sister, and then at age nine he moved off to New York.

	B:	Mmhm.



	H:	What do you know about his family, his parents? B:	Well no those are his parents there—Luther—





	H:	What do you know about them, what kind of work did they do?



	B:	Well, my granddaddy Luther Curby worked for—I remember him working for Blockers Furniture Store. You know the Blockers, that fine furniture store here in town? He worked for them, and he worked for them as long as I knew him.

	H:	Working in the stock room or?



	B:	He did furniture assembly, he did deliveries, he did showroom setups— H:	Did everything, okay.

	B:	Yeah, he worked everything. And my Mammie D., I don’t remember her working at all. Yeah, she was home and took care of her dad, Tony.

	H:	So in terms of knowing both sides of the family, like on Christmas and holidays you’d celebrate with both sides of the family, then?

	B:	I might go out and visit my grandparents, you know, and maybe not. But most of my time was spent with my parents. Because we lived downtown—

	H:	When you say downtown, which side of the current Pine Street are you talking about?

	B:	We lived east of Pine.



	H:	Lived on the east side, okay.



	B:	Right downtown, actually, Mountain Ridge Church is still there and we lived right there in the parking lot. Matter of fact, we sold the church our homestead and they tore it down and built the parking lot for the church. But we grew up there, and that was my grandparent’s home. They had eight children and all eight of them were reared in that home. But my mom, after she divorced, we stayed there with her. My sister and I—I have a sister too.





	H:	So how many people would live in the house while you were growing up there?



	B:	Okay, in my grandparent’s house there’s my grandmother, my granddad, my mom, her two children, my aunt—she had about four kids—so there’s a lot.

	H:	All living under one roof?



	B:	Yes, extended family. Big, two-story house. You know, it looked like a plantation house. It was a fine house, actually, right downtown.

	H:	And they owned that house at that time?



	B:	Yes, yes, yes. So the family lived there and then my great uncle lived there. My grandmother’s’ brother who had some—what do you call it? Special needs.

Yeah, he was special needs and he lived there.



	H:	So how many bedrooms? How did you all divide up and who did you share a room—obviously you shared a room with one or more?

	B:	Well my mom, my sister and I, we slept in one room, mmhm. And my aunt and her children slept upstairs in a couple of rooms. My grandparents had a room. My uncle had a room. And there was another room that—who slept in that? There was a, we called it a screen room, somebody else slept in that. So we had room and as far as meals were concerned they cooked for the whole family.

	H:	That was going to be my next question, so who would do all the cooking and? B:	My great uncle.

	H:	Your great uncle would do the cooking?



	B:	My mom’s brother, the one with special needs. He did most of the cooking. Or my granddad.





	H:	And did you all eat at a table? Together or how did that work, that’s a lot of people?

	B:	I don’t remember us eating at a table. Yeah, you know I think everybody more or less—because they worked—the kids probably ate all together but everybody else, you know. My mom was a nurse.

	H:	Where was she a nurse?



B:  She was a nurse at Dr. Lamb’s office. Well, actually she worked for two doctors. She first worked for Dr. Wright, who was a night physician right downtown Ocala. And then she—

H:   I’ve heard his name before.



	B:	Dr. Wright, yeah. And then from Hugo Wright she moved to Dr. E. Lamb. H:	They were both general practitioners?

	B:	Mmhm. They were general practitioners right downtown Ocala. And see, that was what was good about Ocala then. You know, where I lived downtown, there were lots and lots of Black businesses. We had three doctors right there in the same few blocks. You had two dentists right there. You had a man with an appliance store. You had barber’s shops. You had Bahas and dance halls that sort of thing too. But you had—

H:   And these were Black-owned businesses?



	B:	Black-owned businesses right downtown Ocala. Yeah. So growing up downtown was magnificent for me. I loved it, I absolutely loved it. And the people would come because our house was big and it had a great big porch that surrounded the entire house. The people would come from out of the county to shop, buy





groceries and stuff because we had lots of grocery stores downtown. And they would come to my house and leave their groceries on our porch. And they stayed there until they finished their shopping and they got the groceries and went on back out into the country. You know, they were from Belleview, they were from Santos, Fairfield, all over. But that’s just what we did. And I tell you another thing—let me mention this while I’m thinking of it. The other thing I remember from downtown Ocala was the Seminole Indians. They would come into town, they lived in Silver Springs. And they would come into town every Saturday and do their shopping. And I learned so much about—they would walk in a line. They would have the mom and the dad, whoever was leading. I don’t know what they would call it but they would walk in a straight line. And that’s the way they got around town, I mean, they walked and they would line up. We would make jokes about it, but it was so interesting. Another thing, I would talk to—I was just a little kid—but I remember just going up to and talking to them. I can’t remember the one’s name but we called him Chief something—I can’t recall what.

	H:	And they lived in Silver Springs? B:	They lived in Silver Springs.

	H:	Now here’s what I’m trying to figure out. And I’m probably not the only one, I was not here, obviously and I’m learning all about this part of Ocala. My understanding is that there was a vibrant Black community, business community, like you’ve described. At the same time, legally, you could shop on the White side of town but for the most part the Blacks shopped in the Black owned businesses and the Whites shopped at the White-owned businesses.





B:  Well let me tell you, the businesses were more or less together. You may have a Black grocery store here and right beside it you may have a White grocery store. So you go to either one, Patobo was right here E.W. Jones was down there. But Pastor’s was right up the street. You know, so you could go to either one.

H:   Without feeling any discrimination?



	B:	No I don’t remember feeling any of that in my time in Ocala. But I know that the federal building and the post office and all, I remember the fountains, the separate fountains.

	H:	You do remember—that was my question, then.



	B:	And I remember going to some of the restaurants you had to go in through the back door. You were served from the back door. Same thing with the hospital, Monroe Hospital. My mom was in the hospital and I remember we had to go into the colored section. So I remember some things like that.

	H:	If there were Black-owned restaurants and White restaurants, the Black-owned restaurants were mostly Whites and Blacks would go into those restaurants or mostly just Blacks?

	B:	Unh-uh not into them.



	H:	Not into them, okay, that was my question.



	B:	Not into them, no. We would not go into them. We could be served—



	H:	No, I’m saying would any Whites come into the Black-owned restaurants? B:	Oh, sure.

	H:	They would.



	B:	Oh sure, oh yes. They liked the food!





	H:	And in a Black-owned restaurant would there also be segregated bathrooms at water fountains?

	B:	I don’t remember about that, unh-uh. And I don’t that the Blacks even wanted to go to the bathroom or use the restroom. Or water fountain, I don’t know that they wanted to. But I remember them getting their food. Some of them would even sit down and eat.

	H:	I’m talking about in the Black-owned restaurants.



	B:	Yeah, yeah. Some would sit down and eat but most get their food to-go.



	H:	So most of the Black-owned restaurants were visited by Whites? More by Whites than by Blacks—

	B:	No. No, I didn’t say that. No they weren’t visited more by Whites, but Whites would come.

	H:	Okay.



	B:	Yeah. Some of the attorneys from uptown would come, some of the shopkeepers from uptown would come. But they’d come and get their lunch—

	H:	And sit at mixed tables?



	B:	Yeah sometimes. Mmhm. But with the White restaurants, no. We did not sit in. H:	You did not sit in?

	B:	We did not sit in.



	H:	By custom or by law?



	B:	By whatever you want to call it, that was the rules then. H:	Okay, yeah.





	B:	That was the rule then. You didn’t go in, you went to the back door and you ordered if you wanted to. Like a drive-in restaurant. One that we really like, because the food that they served—I remember going there quite a bit because we had to go to the back door to get our food.

	H:	I wonder what the situation was with the Seminoles?



	B:	I don’t remember seeing the Seminoles anywhere except shopping on Saturdays.

	H:	And not in White restaurants probably?



	B:	No when they were shopping they were shopping for food. And maybe some dry goods and stuff like that, but they pretty much kept to themselves.

	H:	But I wonder if they had to follow the same restroom or water fountain rules, if they were treated the same as African Americans.

	B:	I was real young so I don’t know.



	H:	What is interesting, this is the first time I’ve heard of them coming into town.



That’s interesting, wow.



	B:	Yeah.



	H:	What else do you remember about growing up? Let’s say, before school. What do you remember doing before you even started school? Where would you play? What would you do?

B:  Okay, I remember I played right around home. I went to kindergarten right up the street. Mrs. Jessie Stilts was my kindergarten teacher and she was magnificent. I was reading at three years of age. She was magnificent. I remember there were





other kindergarten teachers but because she was in my area, so close to home, and she was friends with my grandma right there.

	H:	And this was an all-Black school? B:	Oh yeah.

	H:	Yeah.



	B:	It was in her home, it was a kindergarten in her home. H:	Oh just a kindergarten.

	B:	Yeah kindergarten was not in public school, you know, kindergarten was private. H:	Right I get you.

	B:	Some kids went and some didn’t. But my folks could afford for me to go so I went to kindergarten at this lady’s house.

	H:	So you knew how to read—



	B:	She taught us to read, yeah. Yeah. She was good.



	H:	How many kids would have been in your class? Do you remember? B:	Oh, I don’t remember how many kids.

	H:	Not a whole lot I assume.



B:  No it might have been about six I suppose. H:  And your sister was how old?

B:  My sister was four years younger than me. H:   Okay so she would not have been—

B:   No she was not. And I went to first grade at Madison Street, and my first memory of Madison Street going into first grade was that their first day of school they had me go around to all of the teachers to read. They couldn’t believe that I could





read like I could. I went to all of these teachers and they wanted me to go on to second grade. But my mom would not let me, she said I was too young, she wanted me to go to first and that’s what I did. Now I did have some friends that went with me who did go on, actually, their parents allowed them to. But my mom didn’t.

	H:	She didn’t want you speeding through? B:	No.

	H:	How did you get to Madison Street, would you walk? B:	Yes, yes.

	H:	Which is quite a walk then?



	B:	Yes. We walked down Broadway, which was not paved, to silver springs boulevard and it was right there. Then I went to Howard High School, we walked through the cemetery which was just beyond Madison Street, I don’t know if you’ve ever seen that cemetery—

	H:	Mmhm.



	B:	We walked through that cemetery— H:	To get to Howard.

	B:	To get to Howard.



	H:	What was going on at Howard Academy at that point?



	B:	At that point, okay, I went to Madison Street from first grade to third grade. Fourth grade, fourth and fifth, was Howard Elementary, that was the Howard Academy building. But it was an elementary school.

	H:	That’s what I though, okay.





	B:	And then there was another building at Howard Academy—it’s not there anymore. It was a big White two story building, that was the middle school. So sixth, seventh, and eighth graders went there and that was all on the Howard Academy campus.

	H:	They went there and then wouldn’t go to Howard High until they had finished there.

	B:	Eighth grade, you went to Howard High School. H:	And then you went to Howard High School. Okay.

	B:	And then in 1961, I think it was around 1961, when they integrated. Integration, and some of those kids chose to go to Forest, Ocala High. Yeah so and some didn’t I chose not to. And I graduated 1966 from Howard High School.

	H:	From Howard High School, okay. Let me back up—what was childhood like?



What do you remember doing? What would you do for fun as a kid growing up?



	B:	I was a tomboy. I played tomboys and Indians with my neighbors. H:	Did you really?

	B:	Yes.



	H:	So you had cowboy things and bows and arrows?



	B:	We had cap guns and bows and arrows and the cowboy boots and the cowboy hat, had the whole nine yards. And we would play that in the afternoon. And then across the street in the fall I remember we used to pick pecans because all of the houses had different fruits. We had orange trees, we had peach trees, we had plum trees. But we didn’t have a pecan tree in our yard. But our neighbor did.

And so those particular neighbors lived up in Ohio, Cincinnati Ohio. And they





would come home in the spring. But in the fall when the pecans were out we would jump the fence and go in and pick. So we had a good time, we just had a good time. And I remember going to the parades-

	H:	What parades did they have?



	B:	Well we had Christmas parade, which was all-county. And then Howard High School had homecoming parade, they had a homecoming parade right down mid-Ocala. And I liked that. And then I was in middle school, I was a majorette and so I remember marching in the parades. I loved it, I loved it. The homecoming parade as well as the Christmas parade.

	H:	Neat, neat. How about Paradise Park? Did y’all ever go out to Paradise Park? B:	Oh yes! Yes we went to Paradis Park, we had a ball out there—

	H:	How would you get there? B:	In cars?

	H:	So with your friends or your family or both?



	B:	Family or friends. Yeah. Most of the time I went with my friends or my uncles or somebody.

	H:	So, they would borrow a car from their parents and you would go out there? B:	Yeah. I didn’t go a lot out there though, some of my friends did, but I didn’t.

Because I wasn’t that outgoing as a teenager. I was okay during preteen but once I became a teenager I was more introverted. I don’t know why, maybe because I was a little overweight or something, I don’t know. And then my mom didn’t allow me to do a lot of things either. But that was up until I was thirteen years old because that was when my mom passed.





	H:	Oh, your mom passed when you were thirteen? B:	I was thirteen, my sister was nine.

	H:	So your dad moved away when you were nine, when you’re thirteen your mom passed. You were still living at your grandmother’s house—

	B:	My grandma had died. My grandma died when I was five years old but I just remember her.

	H:	So who was the matriarch of the family? Who kind of ran the show at the house at that point?

	B:	Okay when my mom died my mom was thirty-six. She was really young when she passed away but I remember her being sick a lot. We went to New York to visit my dad and when I came back she had been in the hospital or she was in the hospital. Yeah, she was severe asthmatic and she had some kidney conditions. When she passed away we had a choice. Well, my mom talked with us, she knew she was passing. And she asked us what was our preference, who did we want to stay with.

	H:	You and your sister, just the two of you.



	B:	Yeah, yeah. And we wanted to stay home, so of course my sister followed my lead. And I said, “I want to stay with Daddy.” And of course that’s what I call my granddaddy, Daddy. I said, “I want to stay with Daddy.” And so she said, “okay,” and she knew it wouldn’t be a problem because at that point he was living at home. He built another home.

	H:	Close by or the same neighborhood? B:	No it was west.





H:   It was west.



	B:	It wasn’t downtown it was out by my grandma’s on my daddy’s side actually. And he built a home out there. And I kept the home for him, actually. I would go out on the weekends and I would clean and everything for him. He did his own cooking because he was a very good cook but I would clean the house for him and we just had a real close relationship. And my aunts, my mom’s sisters, they all got together and they decided, “Well the girls will stay with Daddy and we’ll keep check on ‘em.” And that’s what happened.

	H:	So you and your sister moved in with him, were you in the same school or would you have to walk to different schools?

	B:	Same school. Yeah. At that point I was at Howard Academy and she was at Madison.

	H:	Just down the street from each other so you would walk to school together? B:	Matter of fact it was closer. It was a cloer walk, yeah.

H:  Were you and she tight as kids? B:  My sister? Oh yeah. We still are. H:  You still are.

B:  Yeah it’s just the two of us. But my aunts—I was close to all of my mom’s sisters and her brothers. As a matter of fact we would spend some time, when we were not in school, in Fort Lauderdale with her siblings.

H:   So you still keep up?



	B:	Oh yeah, as a matter of fact. See in our family everybody went to college. H	Everybody went to college?





	B:	My grandmother had eight children and two of them did not go to school. One went in the military, the other one chose to get married. And so that’s what happened. They all worked and when they worked they moved away. They didn’t’ come back home.

	H:	How unusual was that for Blacks to go to college? Was that commonplace, did a lot of your friends go to college?

	B:	In our circle it was common, yes.



	H:	Did they go with athletic scholarships?



	B:	No, no, no, no, no, no no. They paid for it! That was one thing that was expected, the big picture in high school there was no question about whether or not you were going to college. That’s what you go.

	H:	And their parents all had enough money to pay for their tuition and that kind of thing? And I’m sure that’s marked along on the side—

	B:	They chipped in. My mom was the oldest of all the children, okay, she went to college—

	H:	She went to college?



	B:	Oh yeah, she was a nurse. H:	Oh of course that’s right.

	B:	And she helped her parents send the next one to school. The next one helped send the next one to school. That’s what they did. And my aunt, the baby girl, sent me to college. Mom was gone, when I went to college my mom’s baby sister sent me to college. She had gone to Tuskeegee, she and her husband. And they had moved to Los Angeles, so that’s where I moved for college. Out there.





	H:	You went to college all the way away to Los Angeles? Where did you go? B:	Well I went two years here. I stayed with my granddaddy—

	H:	In central Florida?



	B:	I stayed with my granddaddy for two years, yeah. I stayed with him and he bought me a car, I was excited. That was my first car and yeah I drove to community college. And then I went out to California.

	H:	Just to give me a feel as I compare it with my old high school and I think of hihfg school now—At Howard high school, what percentage—not just of your circle— what percentage of those Howard High School kids would go to college? Boys and girls—would it be more boys than girls? Would it be an equal number? And then all together what percent do you think?

	B:	Yeah it would be more girls than boys. H:	More girls than boys.

	B:	Mmhm.



	H:	And going off a lot of them to teacher’s college then or not necessarily, just college?

	B:	Teacher’s college? H:	Mmhm.

	B:	No, they went to university. They went primarily to historically Black universities, and those were regular universities.

	H:	Because back way back when Florida State was a women’s teacher’s college was Bethune-Cookman the same way? Or do you know?

	B:	That was not during my era.





	H:	That was not during your era, right.



	B:	Yeah when my parents went to college my mom went to Bethune-Cookman but she finished in nursing. My uncle went to Bethune-Cookman, he did finish in education.

	H:	So unlike Florida State, that was coed, Bethune-Cookman was coed all along? B:	Oh yeah. And my other aunt, she finished in education and she was a teacher. My aunt that went to Tuskeegee, she finished in education, she was a teacher.

But her husband went to Tuskeegee, finished in physical therapy, so they offered everything.

	H:	Well let’s get back to you. You went two years at central florida then went out to California to where?

	B:	Cal State Los Angeles.



	H:	Cal State. And that was a huge move. B:	It was a culture shock, yes it was.

	H:	And remind me again what was the connection between you and California? Why did you go there?

	B:	My aunt.



	H:	Your aunt.



	B:	My mom’s sister, her Las Vegas sister, and her husband. They sent for me to go to college out there.

	H:	So they were out there and they wanted you to go out and be close to them?



	B:	No they wanted me to come out to go to college. They just wanted me to go to college.





	H:	So where were they? B:	They were in California. H:	Alright, close by.

	B:	But they just took charge because my mom took charge of her.



	H:	So you go out and you’re all of a sudden a junior and you’ve got this cultural shock.

	B:	Mmhm. It was the era of the hippies and I had to get adjusted to seeing them around and the kind of stuff they were doing—

	H:	Where did you live? B:	I lived in Los Angeles.

	H:	But not in a dormitory on campus? B:	No. I lived in their home.

	H:	Oh I was gonna say—you lived in their home.



	B:	I lived in their home and I commuted. I took the city bus to campus, I took the city bus to campus and had never been on a city bus but I enjoyed it. And made a lot of friends. Didn’t get involved in anything outside on campus life, didn’t get involved I just studied.

	H:	What did you study? What were you interested in? Did you know what you wanted to do at that point?

	B:	Okay. Mmhm. Yeah, I studied social work. H:	As an undergraduate, okay.

	B:	As an undergraduate I got a degree in social work and education, I had a double bachelors. And I did my internship in school social work.





	H:	Okay.



	B:	Yeah and I loved it, I loved it, I loved it. H:	Out there?

	B:	I loved school social work, during that internship. But no, I didn’t particularly like Los Angeles, that’s why I came back as soon as I graduated. [Laughter] I was homesick out there. I mean, it was just—

	H:	So when you graduated, said goodbye to your aunt and uncle, you’re coming back to Ocala?

	B:	Mmhm.



	H:	And that would have been in what, [19]70, [19]71?



	B:	[19]71. I graduated [19]70, so I came back in [19]70. And my first job was with the state of Florida, I was a social worker with—

	H:	HRS.



	B:	Yes, that’s what it was called, HRS. H:	Family services probably.

	B:	Yeah. And I worked in Levy County, it was with the state but the only available opening at the time was in Levy county so I said, “Well that’s close enough.”

	H:	And you came back and moved to Ocala then?



	B:	Because that’s the first place—I wanted to move to Fort Lauderdale because that’s where all my other aunts and my cousins that were my age, that’s where they lived. And they still live down there, and that’s where I wanted to go but nothing came available down there at the time so I took the first available in it was in Levy County. And I said, “Well I’ll just do that for a while.”





	H:	As a social worker? B:	HRS.

	H:	I’m sorry, right, that’s what you said.



	B:	HRS. And I loved that because I didn’t work with dependent children, I worked with the adult population. I was the first Black social worker in all of Levy County. And I was a celebrity. They would come in and ask to see, “We want to see the colored social worker!”

	H:	Really?



	B:	Seriously. And at first I was offended, but then it was okay. It was okay. And I got to know the people and the community and everything. And They opened up funds where I could put in their budget, budget for indoor toilet facilities, because a lot of them didn’t have that at that time.

	H:	Was your caseload primarily Black or not necessarily? B:	No it was adult and it was mixed.

	H:	And similar needs with all of them because you were doing social work? B:	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. And I was the only adult social worker.

	H:	Oh you were the only adult—



	B:	Only adult cases. Working with adult.



	H:	Right so you were dealing with folks that were unemployed, no household income, poor facilities, et cetera, et cetera.

	B:	I budgeted for more indoor toilets—unbelievable. I just couldn’t believe that people were still living like that. This was in—what—[19]71. But they didn’t have indoor facilities, so I budgeted for that. And they got the toilets and stuff.





	H:	And they had septic systems or they had city sewage? They must have had septic systems.

	B:	I don’t know what they had all I know is they didn’t have indoor toilets. H:	It must have been septic systems.

	B:	They had outhouses and those kinds of things. H:	They had indoor plumbing for the kitchen—

	B:	This was in Chiefland, Bronson, Cedar Key, and Gulf Hammer, those were the areas that I worked with.

	H:	Was that something new that nobody else had done? Had paid much attention to—

	B:	No. It just, it wasn’t available. They budgeted for it, it was something new that came down from the government, we could do this for these people now.

	H:	And so this was subsidized by the government and all of a sudden you had the challenge and the honor—

	B:	It was just so good. When they come in, “Well okay you’re approved, we can start on this.” And that’s what they did. And then they got public housing, and that was another thing that I was able to do. Get some of them into the public housing, they had real decent places at that time.

	H:	How many years did you work there? B:	Only a year and a half.

	H:	Okay because when I met you it was in like [19]72 or [19]73 and you were already—

	B:	Yeah, I wasn’t there very long. I wasn’t there very long.





	H:	How did that happen?



	B:	I wanted to do school social work. And I had already applied. And Mr. Hanson called me, he called me one day, he said, “are you still wanting to do school social work?” I said, “Yes!” Because I had already talked to him and everything. He said, “Well I have an opening, you can by a psychologist, or you can do the social work.” You know, they had the psychologist doing all the testing and stuff then. And I said, “No, I want to do the school social work.” And that’s how I came to work there.

	H:	Okay, and I can’t remember. When you moved back and were working in Levy county, where were you living?

	B:	In Ocala.



	H:	You were, okay.



	B:	Well let me tell you, for a while I lived in Ocala. Ocala was my home. There was a lady out from Ocala who was a teacher in Williston, and she had an apartment that she used and she would come over on the weekends. So her apartment had a bedroom and she let me rent a bedroom. So I stayed with her most of the time during the week, IU stayed in that apartment and then I’d come back home on the weekends. But then I stopped doing that, I started doing when I get off work on the weekends I’d drive straight to Fort Lauderdale.

	H:	To visit your friends and family down there, okay.



	B:	I took off Friday after work, drove to Fort Lauderdale, come back Monday morning. [41:03]

	H:	And do your school social work, okay.





	B:	No, do my—



	H:	HRS, okay. Okay. And then you got the job with the school system as a school social worker.

	B:	Mmhm and I got married. And that’s where I was. Back here doing social work.



	H:	So tell me a little about that. You had had total success; you had the thrill of bringing these people plumbing, indoor plumbing, indoor toilets anyhow—and felt, I’m sure, everybody was grateful and thankful. All of a sudden you’re starting this new system, what was school social work like then? What was your job all about as a school social worker?

	B:	Okay, well when I started it wasn’t what I expected it to be. We were so far behind California. I mean we really were. We did things like—checking on truants, things like that. They did some of that.

	H:	They didn’t have truancy officers? I didn’t think so.



	B:	But we did a lot of attendance. In California they had attendance officers who did that. You know, so I was shocked that we were doing that. But one of the things that I did and I was the first social worker here to do it, I was trained to do adaptive behavior assessments. During that time when kids were being evaluated for special classes, you know, they used to just have the psychologist test them. But then they started looking at their behavior, their personal development and their function in the home and their social development and histories and stuff like that. So I went to Tallahassee, school board sent me to Tallahassee, and trained me to use the AAMD—I forgot what that stands for but it was the American Association of—something with adaptive behavior—it was





adaptive behaviors. I learned to administer that test and I was the only social worker in Ocala doing adaptive behavior and writing up behavior reports for kids that were born in special class. I did that for—I guess for a couple of years. And then there’s a gay girl was trained and she did it and it was the two of us and then Sherry Crabtree and it was the three of us. But for a long time I was the only one doing that. And I was proud of that and I liked it, because I thought it used my skills. Utilized my skills more than helping with the truancy stuff.

	H:	Mmhm.



B:  So we did that and then it evolved to the extended to all social workers doing adaptive behavior assessments, that was just part of the behavior evaluation process for anybody that was being tested—any kid that was being tested for special classes.

	H:	Tell me both with HRS in Levy County and the school social worker, you grew up in a—as you call it, your circle of friends, everybody was talking about going to college and folks who had enough money to send their kids to college—you ended up working with families that didn’t have indoor plumbing, didn’t have a lot of things, didn’t have family income or at least a dependable family income, tell me about some of the families that you worked with and the kind of conditions that they were living under back then? That you might help get them funding or— [Interruption]

	H:	So we just stopped to change rooms but we want to continue now. Again, I’m Joe Hartman with Regis Boatwright and we were just talking about her job as a school social worker and I guess my question is describe some of the families or





the situations of the families that you worked with—What kinds of needs that they have? I know you did the adaptive behavior thing but just family living conditions and struggles and difficulties trying to make it in the modern world.

	B:	Mmhm, well the majority of the families I worked with were families that lived on meager incomes. You know, most of them were single mother homes. The children were struggling, academically, behaviorally. Their living environment needed help. As a social worker, what I would do is I would go in to the home and assess what their needs were and make referrals to the necessary agencies to get them the services that they needed. Now, one of the things that I look forward to every year was when the Ocala Star Banner used to have the—and they still do—the Community with A Heart at Christmas time. And I would make referrals to that agency to get automobiles for somebody who may have a sick child who needed to get to Gainesville, and they didn’t have sufficient transportation. Community with A Heart was able to make vehicle repairs, even donate a vehicle to those people. That was one of my favorite cases. Matter of fact, I was thinking about that the other day, wondering whatever happened to that kid. She had a chronic illness and she had to go to Shands once a week, and she would be an adult now, probably in her twenties or thirties. But I don’t know what happened with her, but that was a family that I just kind of wrapped myself around. And then there were situations as the years went on when grandparents begun to raise their children. In like the eighties, the drug situation started. Crack cocaine, that sort of stuff. And our community was really impacted by that. And then you had the grandparents raising the children—





	H:	And in some case with a father for the young kids probably the first time they had a father figure in the family.

	B:	Oh, yeah. Yeah with the grandparent, yeah that’s right. But it was a woman for the grandparents, a lot of them. Some of them were quite elderly, and some of them were young grandparents. By the same token they had some needs, they needed parenting education. And that’s when myself and a couple of the other social workers started doing parent education groups,

	H:	Oh you did parent education groups too? I did that as a guidance counselor.



	B:	Yeah, we did parent education groups and that was beneficial to them. Let’s see, what else do you want to know?

	H:	Well, tell me about the parent education groups. What kinds of skills were you teaching them and what kind of success did you feel like you had?

	B:	Okay, well we did two types of groups. We did a group with parents who were mandated to take these classes from the court system. And we did a group with kids who were on our caseload who just needed intervention for the parents, you know. And we taught basic parent education. Communication, discipline, even some health and safety issues. The whole gambit.

	H:	They would come to you would have a central meeting place?



	B:	Yeah, we did it in the schools. And the ones that were mandated I did it through a group called the Mad Dads of Ocala and we used their facility. But yeah, they would come to us. Now, in the school we found that a lot of times it didn’t work because the parents—I don’t know if it was intimidation or what—but getting them out to the school, that was hard to do.





	H:	It wasn’t mandated, it made it a lot harder than folks that were coming on their own volition and wanting to be there, I’m guessing.

	B:	Well those that were mandated showed up better than the ones we were— H:	But in terms of their motivation because they—

	B:	Yeah, oh yeah. You know, we did that for a while and it helped. I thought it was a benefit, we saw some measure of improvement in the kid and in the parents.

	H:	There was some buy in on the parents’ part. It seems like it would be real easy during those times for a parent just to throw their hands up and say they can’t beat this. With all the drugs, with all the crime, this is too much for me. That’s up to you guys to handle, I can’t handle my child anymore and it sounds like what you were trying to do was say, “Yes you can, and these are some things that you can do.”

	B:	“These are some things that you can do,” mmhm, mmhm. And that’s what we did. You know, for more intensive kinds of stuff we referred them out. For counseling and that sort of thing, we weren’t trying to do that because we didn’t have the time to do that. But we did get them to a point and if we felt they needed more than we made the referrals, yeah.

	H:	And you were a school social worker for how many years? B:	I was a school social worker for thirty-five years.

	H:	Thirty-five years. B:	Mmhm.

	H:	Always Marian County?





	B:	As a school social worker, yeah. And then I retired and when I came back I worked as a guidance counselor.

	H:	Oh I was not aware of that. Where did you work as a guidance counselor? B:	North Marian High School.

	H:	North Marian High School. B:	Yes.

	H:	I didn’t know that.



	B:	I was a glutton for punishment. [Laughter]



	H:	Work with Kimmy West out there, did you? Or was she gone from there? B:	I’m trying to think, I remember that name. Yeah, what was she?

	H:	She was a guidance counselor there for a number of years. She went for a number, she did elementary, she did high school. Blonde or White hair at that point, by the time she—

	B:	No, I’m trying to think who was there. What was her name?



	H:	It doesn’t make any difference. Okay, so you did that for two years, during your time you said you got married, did you raise a family during these years?

	B:	Mmhm.



	H:	Tell us about your family.



	B:	Oh, yeah. I had two children, a son, Levon Jimmy Boatwright, he’s forty-seven years old. I have a daughter, Camile Boatwright-Stueman, she’s forty-two. My children were small, I went back to grad school at Stetson.

	H:	In social work or?



	B:	No I got my degree, my master’s, in counseling and guidance.





	H:	Okay.



	B:	Yeah and I think my—can’t remember the year—I can’t remember-- H:	This was while you were raising a family then?

	B:	Mmhm. Yeah. Well they started, with my graduate program, they started here locally. Stetson had a satellite program here in Ocala.

	H:	Next to UF, yeah.



	B:	Mmhm, and so I went, I did that, and then it folded and then we ended up having to commute. Myself, and two other ladies would drive over after we got off work we’d drive to Stetson. And we got our degrees. Master’s in counseling and guidance.

	H:	And raised your family, where did they go to school? Where did your kids go to school?

	B:	Okay, they went to—My daughter went to Madison Street Magnet, there was a magnet program. My son went to—

	H:	So that must have been before my time there.



	B:	I don’t remember who the guidance counselor was at Madison during that time., You might have been there.

	H:	I started in [19]88.



	B:	She might have been in middle school.



	H:	They only started there—they started in [19]85 was their first year— B:	Magnet.

	H:	As a magnet, and I came in [19]88. They started under Ruth Marcos in [19]85. B:	Okay.







H:

So she must have been there during that time.

B:

Yeah, yeah.

H:

Dante Culpepper and—

B:

Yeah, she was in that class.

H:

Yeah okay that was before my time.

B:

Oh okay.

H:

Bob Wheaton was the name of the counselor there before I was there.

B:

Oh yeah yeah yeah that’s right okay.

H:

So they went—she went to Madison Street and then where?

B:

She went to Madison Street and then Osceola and then Forest.

H:

Okay. And graduated from Forest, did she go to college as well?

B:

Yeah she went her first year at Hampton, Virginia at Hampton University in



Virginia. And she decided it was too far away from home. [Laughter] So she



transferred to Atlanta, so she finished up there at Clark Atlanta University and



she did her bachelor’s and master’s degrees there.

H:

And what were her degrees in?

B:

She got her bachelor’s in psychology, he master’s in counseling education.

H:

So she followed in your footsteps?

B:

Yes, yes, yes.

H:

Okay.

B:

But she’s never worked as a guidance counselor.

H:

What kind of work does she do?





	B:	She worked in mental health. She did some mental health counseling but she also did utilization and review, the administrative part of it, that’s what she primarily did. And then she opened her own school. She opened—it’s been a year and a half now—she opened a preschool academy.

	H:	A preschool academy?



	B:	Daycare preschool academy. H:	And this is where now?

	B:	In Atlanta.



	H:	In Atlanta, so she stayed in Atlanta after—



	B:	Yeah. And my son went to Florida A&M. Well, he went two years here at community college, Central Florida Community College. And then he went to Florida A&M University and he stayed there.

	H:	And what did he study?



	B:	He studied public administration. H:	Okay.

	B:	And he works for the County Commissioner’s office up in Tallahassee. H:	Up in Tallahassee.

	B:	And he also has his own bail bonds business. H:	Okay.

	B:	Mmhm.



	H:	And did your son and daughter get you some grandkids along the way?



	B:	Yes! Yes, my son and his wife have a daughter, Armani. Armani is my eleven- year-old gymnast.





	H:	Oh, she’s a gymnast.



B:   And Camile has Zen, we call him TJ. Zen, he’s a second grader. H:  Okay so he’s just a young guy. He goes to school in Atlanta too? B:  Yes.

	H:	Okay. You get to see them at all? B:	Oh, yes. I was in Atlanta—

	H:	Especially now that you’re retired, I’m guessing?



	B:	Oh yeah. I was in Atlanta for six weeks this past summer. H:	Oh really?

	B:	Yeah I was helping her do some things at her school. Yeah. So— H:	Well that’s neat.

	B:	Yeah.



	H:	Let me take you back and I’m gonna do my short questions after—I want to go back to the time of integration in Ocala. And at that point, you would have been at Howard High school, I guess, and had the choice of going to—Forest, or Vanguard? What would that, your choice would have been what?

	B:	Forest.



	H:	To Forest.



	B:	Mmhm.



	H:	And you chose to stay at Howard Academy, what do you remember about those times? What do you remember about the choice, what do you remember about the struggle?

	B:	Well, I remember—





	H:	Or even back before then, the whole Civil Rights struggle, what do you remember about the Civil Rights struggle before integration?

	B:	Well, bring up downtown Ocala. I remember the sit-ins at Warf’s and McCrory’s Five and Dime and a café down there, Richard’s, they’re still on the square as a matter of fact. You know, the NAACP and the—that group you were talking about—the fisherman, they were involved.

	H:	The hunting and fishing, yeah. B:	They were involved.

	H:	Were you connected with that at all or did you have friends connected with that?



B:  I was not. I did have friends, yeah, but I was not directly involved with it. Because my folks wouldn’t allow me to. And I didn’t push it because I’m not sure that I had the nerve to.

	H:	How about your thinking at that time and your parents thinking at that time? Did they support?

	B:	Yes they supported it from afar. But direct involvement, I was not. I had family members that were, my cousins and all, they were. But I was not directly involved.

	H:	The hunting and fishing club, you were aware of the fear and the concern for violence, I’m sure.

	B:	Mmhm.



	H:	Do you remember any incidents or anything that—





B:  No I don’t remember any violent incidents occurring but I do remember how the hunting and fishing club used to guard Frank Pinkson’s residence out in Silver Springs.

H:   Mmhm.



	B:	Frank Pinkson was the—we called him the Drum Major for Justice around here in Ocala. He’s the one that initiated the movement in Marian County and they would guard him because there would be threats on his life and that sort of thing. And they would sit vigil out at his house.

	H:	And you were aware of that at the time?



	B:	Yeah, we were aware of all of that. And the mass meeting at the churches, the larger Black churches that could accommodate the people, they would have the weekly mass meetings and that sort of thing. And a lot of the kids were involved in that, the Youth Counsel of the NAACP. I was not involved with that but my children were.

	H:	Your children were?



	B:	I made sure that my children, when they became teenagers, they were involved with the NAACP.

	H:	Later on is what you’re saying, I see what you’re saying. B:	Yes, yes. And but I was—

	H:	Very in tune with it, it sounds like. B:	Yeah, yeah.

	H:	How do you remember the town changing during that time? All that was going on and integration came along and?





	B:	They had the—I told you about the Black businesses downtown—you know, but it seemed to me and it may just be because I was young, but it seems to me that the Black folks died off. That’s how the businesses were dissolved. Dr. Wright got sick and he died, same with Dr. Lamb. Dr. Jones, of course, was murdered.

	H:	Tell me about that because I don’t know that story, that was during that same time period?

	B:	Mmhm.



	H:	Tell me that story.



	B:	Dr. Jones was a general practitioner and he lived in West Ocala and he came home from the office and somebody—[phone ringing] that’s my phone—he came home from the office and somebody broke into his house and killed him. I don’t know if they harmed his wife or not, I can’t recall but I know it was fatal for him.

	H:	Was it understood why he was a target? B:	Because he was a wealthy person.

	H:	Okay.



	B:	I mean, it was a Black person that did it. But yeah, I guess he was older. He was an easy target, I guess.

	H:	So, it was more for money, it had nothing to do with segregation or integration? B:	No.

	H:	It was just a—



	B:	Yeah, it was a Black person that did it, a young fellow.



	H:	So, some of the prominent people died. The other thing that I heard was that after integration a lot of the Black community—what I was told—decided, “Oh,





now we can shop at the mall. Now we can go places where we’re welcome that we didn’t used to be welcome before,” and some of the businesses were abandoned because of that, because there were more opportunities for interracial shopping, whatever it was.

	B:	Well certainly that affected it. You know, but like I said I just remember the people dying off.

	H:	Okay.



	B:	The man that owned the appliance store and the electrical shop, he was an older man, he died. The shoemaker, the guy that had the shoe shop downtown where he repaired soles on shoes and all of that, he passed on.

	H:	And family members didn’t take up those businesses?



	B:	No, no. You know, the barber shops, those barbers died. The beauticians. The restaurant, the popular café, it went on for years. As a matter of fact, just in recent years they closed. Within the last ten years, I think, that closed. But everything else that was downtown, I think it was just due to the deaths that occurred and the families just didn’t keep it going.

	H:	When you talked earlier about how good it felt growing up in your community— and it was a thriving community—and I hear the same stories about folks at Paradise Park and Silver Springs that it was a thrill to just be part of that. And somehow integration came, some of the laws were changed, some of the customs changed, but there is a big something missing too. I guess, the feeling of being part of Howard High School, was that magical feeling, I think—





	B:	I think integration did something to us. As far as education is concerned. I think what happened is we lost a lot of our teachers, our best teachers. And during that time the teachers were family, you know, the teachers knew your family, you knew them. We were a community. And integration kind of dispersed that.

	H:	That’s a good word, dispersed, didn’t it?



	B:	Thelma Parker, who was my mentor, my friend, my everything. She went to Vanguard from Howard. Vera Coca went to Vanguard from Howard. Carina Anderson or Marina Allen went from Pheasant to somewhere else—North Marian, I think it was. We lost a lot of those teachers, and for the first time, during integration, for the first time, Black kids were taught by White teachers. And that made a difference. I know my sister, she was exposed to it at Forest High School. Now she was four years behind all of that, four maybe five years behind major integration. But when she was at Forest High School, they were still doing sit-ins in the building administration. They were doing sit-ins in downtown.

	H:	Demonstrating for what?



	B:	Anything. I mean, my sister was more radical than me. She was extremely bright, extremely bright. And her group of friends were extremely bright. And they didn’t feel that they were being treated fairly. They thought maybe when they took a test that it wasn’t graded fairly. They didn’t like the bus issue.

	H:	What was the bus issue?



	B:	They were bussing kids from—now we were, it was no problem for them, but they were bussing kids all the way from Silver Springs. They were bussing kids from all out in Bellview—





	H:	So in order to achieve integration they were bringing good kids to ride on busses for long distances.

	B:	Yeah. And there was a lot of issues during that time and that was like I said four or five years after the start of integration. You know, I was out in California at the time so I don’t know the real specifics of it but I do remember my sister getting suspended for the sit-ins for Forest High School. I remember that, and my aunt was talking about bringing her out there to California but she didn’t want to go, she didn’t.

	H:	What kind of prejudice did your kids experience going to predominately White schools?

	B:	My kids?



	H:	Mmhm. Did you hear stories?



	B:	Yeah. My son—well, during that time they were all predominately White when they went to school.

	H:	That’s what I mean.



	B:	Yeah. My son, I remember one time he came home and told me something that a teacher had told him—I can’t remember exactly, now, what it was. But he told me something that a teacher had said and it was inaccurate. It was not right, it was inaccurate information. And so I went to the teacher and I explained it to him and he apologized because he didn’t know. I forgot what it was—God, I wish I could remember. But that upset my son because he knew it.

	H:	Sure.





	B:	And then I had another situation with my daughter when she got ready to go off to college. I had the guidance counselor say “Well, she’s not an achiever, maybe you need to look at this or you need to look at that,” other than the college that I was sending her to. But she was accepted into the college I was sending her to, it was an Ivy League Black college up in Virginia. That’s where I sent her. But the guidance counselor said that to me. To me! You know? And—

	H:	That’s prejudice coming out in terms of lower expectations.



	B:	So that’s the way I viewed it. If her score was not where you think it should be, it was where it needed to be for her to go to school. And we have high expectations of her and that’s where she’s gonna go. So yeah, that’s what happened, and it was those kinds of things. I think the teachers had lower expectations for the achievement of Black kids. And that’s a fact, you know, I saw it all the time.

	H:	Particularly when I was with HRS, but just going into barber shops and going around the community as a White person and people speak openly with me whereas they might not with you. I hear prejudice all the time, still do as a matter of fact.

	B:	What I had to do was, as a social worker, because Black parents were so intimidated about going into the schools, I had to let them know how important it was that you knew that teacher and that teacher knew you. That made all the difference in the world.

	H:	Even if they didn’t feel welcome you would tell them to take that step?





	B:	Yes, yes. Once they know you and know you are interested, the attitude is going to change. You’re going to be more accepted; they’re going to be more flexible in the way they deal with your child. They’re gonna expect more than what they are expecting of your child. They’ll respect you and they’ll respect the child. And that’s what I try to get them to do. And I still do that. Parents I come in contact with, even my little cousins who now have children in school. “Go out to the school. Go to the meetings. Raise parent-teacher conferences. Get to know the teachers.” Because it makes a lot of difference. They know you and you know them. So that’s how a lot of that kind of stuff is dealt with I think. Just communication, you know.

	H:	Well, I’m reading Gates book right now, you’ve probably seen the guys on television doing the history with folks. He talks about way back when in the early stages of Jim Crow how prejudice would come out and there would be some folks who would be accepted as the exception. “The good Black person,” or in slang terms, “The good nigger.”

	B:	Right, right.



	H:	And then he has different categories and the ones that are like that and it sounds like even when prejudice exists, you’re encouraging folks to get into the classroom so at least you will be looked at as a person. You might be an exception, you might be one of the good ones, but that you were looked at as a person as opposed to “one of those.” And that was your way of helping folks break down that barrier.

	B:	Yeah, yeah.





	H:	Even though the prejudice exists for others, perhaps if you can show them your interest they will treat you fairly.

	B:	Good way of saying it.



	H:	Well, I’m learning. I’m struggling trying to figure out myself what, you know, I grew up with White male privilege. I’ve experienced a little bit as an elderly person, that kind of prejudice. I’ve experienced with long hair and that kind of prejudice but generally, I can go incognito where you can’t.

	B:	Right.



H:  If there are any preconceived notions maybe they’re based on things other than the color of my skin.

B:  Well there’s still a lot of prejudice out there, you know. It depends on where you go, the more you see. I think about my daughter, where she is up there in—she lives in Douglasville which is a suburb of Atlanta about twenty-eight miles west of—

	H:	Yeah, I know Douglasville. I went to school in Carolton.



	B:	Oh you did? I love Carolton! Okay. Yeah, yeah. But she sees a difference there. H:	It’s more old-fashioned, more rural—

	B:	Mmhm. It really is, it really is.



	H:	Well Atlanta sounds to me—when you have described and others have described west Ocala during the glory years, whatever it was, I immediately think of Atlanta. And I think of what it’s like for a number of African Americans in Atlanta where they’re not dealing with day-to-day prejudice because they have— they’re either fully integrated or successful in their own neighborhoods in their





own social groups. Let me go back—because we’re probably gonna close out here—you talk, before I go to the short answers, that’s what I wanted to do. You mentioned Thelma Parker and a few other folks, tell me about one or two or three of the folks who were your role models. You described Thelma Parker as your “everything,” who was she, and who was she to you specifically, and what did you learn from her?

	B:	I knew Thelma Parker my whole life. We went to the same church, yeah. My church was Mount Mariah Baptist Church right downtown Ocala. And it was the church where all the teachers and doctors, you know. So, she was there, her mom was a teacher, and she was a teacher. I was there as a little kid. She just kind of took the kids under her wing. Took me under her wing.

	H:	At the church or in the school system?



	B:	In the schools too. But I knew her first from church, then from school. She did not teach me in school. By the time I came along, she was at Vanguard. She had gone over to Vanguard, so she did not teach me but she taught my mom.

	H:	Okay.



	B:	She taught my mom and her siblings. But Thelma Parker was the wisest lady I knew. Wise and smart, she had book sense and she had wisdom.

	H:	And how did that manifest itself? How did you see that wisdom, how did you feel that wisdom?

	B:	What she knew, she shared. You know, I think that’s the wisest thing you can do: prepare somebody else. Mentor somebody else. And that’s what she did. And it wasn’t just me, I mean, she had loads and loads of former students that she





mentored. And she encouraged me in everything that I did. When my children were born, she encouraged them. My daughter was taking piano lessons, and she bought my daughter a Baptist hymnal, and she inscribed in it “For the Future, for Our Future Pianist.” You know, things like that. She bought me books of poems, books of poetry because she knew I liked to write.

	H:	Just out of the blue, she’d give you a book of poetry?



	B:	Oh yes, yeah. When she decided to retire from the youth department at church— as she got older she was—

	H:	She had already retired from the school system but stayed on at the church?



	B:	Yeah. She was youth director. But she started training me to do that. And she said, “Well it’s time for you.” And I said, “Well, I’m in graduate school right now.” She said, “Okay, as soon as you get out, I want you to do this.” And sure enough, she put me in charge of the youth department.

	H:	So she had been pretty much preparing you to take over for her. B:	Yeah.

	H:	Wow.



	B:	With everything.



	H:	Did that come as a surprise or you kind of knew that all along?



	B:	Well, I knew that. I wasn’t surprised. I think she just sort of expected it, that’s the kind of person she was. [Laughter]

	H:	So how old were you when you took over that position? B:	I was in graduate school. I must have been—





	H:	So you had already been working as a school social worker, this was why you were doing the Stetson thing.

	B:	Oh yeah.



	H:	Okay. And you took over there?



	B:	Mmhm, and I was director of the youth department at church for many years after her.

	H:	Trying to fill her shoes?



	B:	Yeah. And she used to write the church newsletter, and I started writing the church newsletter. I took that over. If there was a work issue, she’s who I went to and talked with about it. She was a mother to me, I mean, she really was. Well that’s all I can tell you about Thelma Parker. She was everything, you know.

They named Madison Street building after her.



	H:	Right, when they moved to the new building. B:	Yeah.

	H:	So she kind of guided you into filling her shoes and doing her role and serving the church like she had served. She obviously looked at you as one of her success stories. Can you think of some of the kids that you helped along the way that you can take a little—I know you’re a modest person—but some kids you can take credit for? That are successful now? Obviously, your own kids have followed in your footsteps.

	B:	Well, I don’t like naming names like that as far as what I have done. Because there are some kids out there that I think I’ve had some influence on. And the reason I know that is because they acknowledge my birthday, they may send me





a text, if they’re in town visiting, they might come by and see me. The same kind of thing. A lot of my children’s friends, but even them, I must have made some impact for them to come see Mrs. Boatwright when they’re in town. Like when my children were growing up, my house was the go-to house.

	H:	Oh it was? Okay.



	B:	Yeah, it was the go-to house. So there was a lot of children in and out of my house tearing it up.

	H:	And so who were you? Were you Mrs. Boatwright, or were you mom, or who were you to these kids?

	B:	I was Mrs. Boatwright, or Mrs. B. They’d call me Mrs. B or they’d call me Mrs.



Boatwright. And they’re my children’s friends. But professionally, there are some now that I may run into some of them in the stores and all and they remember me that I don’t remember, you know, but they remember me.

	H:	You’ll hear, “Hey Mrs. B,” and—



	B:	Yeah. And so I must have made an impression.



	H:	So we had Thelma Parker, you mentioned a couple other women that were important to you.

	B:	Well, she was the main one. Yeah, Thelma Parker was— H:	She was the main one.

	B:	Yeah, she was the main one.



	H:	Did she live long enough to see your success taking over that position at the— B:	Oh yeah.

	H:	She did? That’s nice.





	B:	Oh yeah. She’s only—How old? —I forgot what year it was now—



	H:	I think I met her over at--We used to take our jugglers over to Harvey’s



Fellowship and I think she showed up over there every once in a while.



	B:	She may have, I don’t know. She even had me reading for the Alltruca Club.



That was a lot. She was just a wonderful, wonderful lady.



	H:	What did she teach?



	B:	She was an English teacher.



	H:	So, she ended up out at Vanguard teaching English there? B:	And AP. She was the vice principal out there, mmhm.

	H:	Oh okay.



	B:	She retired as assistant principal, I think.



	H:	Yeah, I never met her out there. That must have been afterwards, because back when I was with Youth Services I think almost all the principals and assistant principals were men. There were very women back in the [19]70s.

	B:	Yeah, she worked under Kenville Mel and Lee Arnold. H:	Leon Rodgers I remember was out there.

	B:	Yeah she worked under Leon Rodgers too.



	H:	Okay well she may—you know what, because I always dealt with the assistant principal for behavior, she may have been for academics. That’s probably why. Okay, yeah, okay. Let’s do some short answer—wait, do this one first and then we’ll do the short answers. When it comes time for you to check out, and I’m assuming we’re talking twenty, thirty more years, what legacy would you like to leave behind for your family and your friends and your community?





	B:	That I cared. That I was able to help somebody. I would like for them to just remember me as a passionate person that went beyond to help others.

	H:	As you remember Thelma Parker, is what it sounds like. B:	Yeah, yeah.

	H:	Alright, some quick questions. This is going way back when, you said it was your uncle who was the cook when you were growing up in your house way back when—

	B:	Great uncle.



	H:	Great uncle. Favorite meal as a kid, maybe something that he prepared?



	B:	[Laughter] It was something called flour bread and it was like a whole cake that you fried on the top of the stove. I remember we had a wood burning cook stove and he would put it in the black skillet and fry it—

	H:	Put powdered sugar on top maybe? B:	No, no.

	H:	Something different? B:	Syrup, maple syrup.

	H:	Oh, maple syrup, okay.



	B:	Yeah, we’d eat it with butter and maple syrup. And that could be my whole meal, [laughter] that’s why I was fat.

	H:	So that was one of his things.



	B:	I remember that primarily. But we had—in my house that time—we had a chicken yard and a smokehouse. We had all these fruit trees, but we also had a chicken yard and a smokehouse.





	H:	And the chicken yard was free-range? Without fences or?



	B:	It had a fence, yeah, it was fenced in. And I remember them killing the chickens, frying those up. And I remember the meat hanging in the smokehouse.

	H:	In the smokehouse. And what kind of meat? Did they go hunting? B:	I don’t know

	H:	Did they go hunting? B:	It was ham—

	H:	Maybe deer.



	B:	Yeah, I think maybe they went hunting and brought it in there. But it was, I remember ham, the hams would be in there sometimes. So, he would cook that and the summer food, greens and green beans and that sort of thing.

	H:	Neat. Favorite place in the community growing up? Favorite place to go hang out, spend time?

	B:	When I was really, really little I guess my favorite place was my church. Because it was right in my backyard and that’s where we played, you know, we played right there. And my favorite place was my house, you know, my home. Where we hung out.

	H:	I was gonna say favorite game or sport but you already talked about playing cowboys and it’s favorite book growing up—Did you have a favorite book?

	B:	Henry Huggins.



	H:	Henry Huggins. I remember Henry Huggins, I can’t remember what it was about—





	B:	And then I remember—yeah, I remember Henry Huggins. And then I remember Far From Mulberry Street—that was another book, I don’t know who it was by but I liked that.

	H:	I’m thinking that—



	B:	Was that Henry Huggins too?



	H:	I remember it was the same illustrator but I’m wondering if that wasn’t an early Dr. Seuss, on Mulberry Street.

	B:	No, I don’t think that was Dr. Seuss. Far From Mulberry Street—I’ve forgotten but it was a reader, I remember it was a reader.

	H:	That’s what I was thinking, it was like a First Reader, okay. Favorite song growing up, if you had one?

	B:	Song? Hmm… I don’t know about a favorite song. H:	No? Did you have any pets?

	B:	No, I was scared of furry things.



	H:	Really? But other folks had pets around you but you never had any? B:	Unh-uh.

	H:	Okay, favorite teacher? Any time.



	B:	Okay, Thelma Parker didn’t teach me. But my favorite teacher was Mrs.



Edwards Casa McCants, Edwards, and Ruby Mottley.



	H:	And why were they your favorites?



	B:	Well, she was my first grade teacher and the other one was my third grade teacher. And I just—

	H:	Just remember liking them?





	B:	Mmhm. I don’t even remember my second grade teacher. [Laughter] H:	Any lesson that you learned from a parent or grandparent?

	B:	My mom taught me to care for others because she was a caring person. And you know they say “Nurses give tender love and care,” well that was my mom.

	H:	And is that reflecting back, or you knew it at the time? B:	I knew it at the time.

	H:	You knew it at the time.



	B:	Yeah, I knew it at the time. My mom, like I said, she had siblings younger than her, but she was like their mom, you know, because their mom had died, so she was like their mom.

	H:	And she kind of took over?



	B:	Yeah. My mom, I remember, like I said, we lived downtown, and Dr. Lamb’s office was right across the street upstairs in this two-story building. And one of the patients had chronic migraine headaches and I remember her coming over in the middle of the night, knocking on our door to wake my mom up for my mom for my mom to go over to Dr. Lamb’s office and give her a shot or medicine or whatever.

	H:	And she was happy to do that?



	B:	Yeah she was happy to do that kind of thing. I remember during those days the babies were born right there in the office. And I remember the women coming to my house in labor and my mom getting up to go up to the office to deliver the baby. And I remember her giving some of those—

	H:	So she helped—so he did deliveries too, he did everything





	B:	Yeah. And some of them would leave and she knew they didn’t have much, and I remember her packing up these things like milk, giving it to them, so that those babies could have more milk. You know, she did those kinds of things. And I remember, as I grew up after my mom died—like I said she was just thirty-six years old—so a lot of the people were, the patients were older people, but they knew she had little children. And they would come by the house and they would give us things and talk to us about our mom and stuff like that. And my mom’s best friend, they would invite us out for Sunday dinner. I mean, it was just so much caring. My whole life, my whole life--that’s why I give back--my whole life people have given to me, and I acknowledge that and I know I can do anything by myself so that’s the message that I got and it was from my mom primarily.

	H:	And basically you’ve received all your life but you’ve given all your life as she did herself.

	B:	Yeah, yeah. Yeah.



	H:	Wow. That’s neat. That’s neat. We talked most of these, you’ve already talked—I know it was a big deal to go to see your dad, what would you do up there when you went to Long Island?

	B:	Oh he taught us how to ride the subways from Long Island to downtown and my sister and I, while he was working, we’d catch the subways and go downtown and go to the movies and go to the park—we just had a ball, you know.

	H:	And back then— B:	You could do that!

	H:	That was exactly my question.





	B:	Yeah. We were young.



	H:	You said he left when you were nine, so you were going up there as young preteens or teenagers and riding the subways on your own? Wow, a different time, wasn’t it?

	B:	Yeah, it was a different time, a very different time. And then I had aunts up there too on my mom’s side—great aunts on my mom’s side. We would go spend time with them and they would take us to the shows and stuff. I love theater. I love theater. And they would take us to all the shows—

	H:	Now when you say theater you’re talking about acting, you’re not talking about movie theater—

	B:	Live shows.



	H:	So you went to them?



	B:	Oh yeah, my aunts liked to go to those so they would take us. H:	Okay well that’s neat.

	B:	I love New York, that’s my favorite place to visit. H:	So you still—do you still visit there?

	B:	Mmhm.



	H:	Did you father every remarry up there, do you have other family? B:	Yeah he remarried. Oh yeah, I have a stepmom.

	H:	How about stepsisters and brothers, any of those that you’ve kept up with?



	B:	No, I mean, there was a stepbrother, but he was in the military. But I don’t keep up with him.





	H:	You don’t keep in touch, so when you’re going to New York you’re just going—it’s the experience.

	B:	Yeah, nobody’s up there anymore. All of them are all gone, they’re all passed on.



But yeah.



	H:	So right now, you visit Atlanta a lot to be with your daughter, do you visit Tallahassee a lot then too?

	B:	Mmhm.



	H:	So you’re enjoying being a grandma.



	B:	Oh yeah. Definitely, I love it. I wish they have more. H:	And who are you as grandma, what’s your name? B:	Grand-Mommy.

	H:	Grand-Mommy, okay. You don’t have your own special—you’re just Grand- Mommy.

	B:	Yeah.



	H:	But they love to see you when you come.



	B:	Mhmm, and they love coming here. Now, see, they spend their summers here. H:	Oh, they do?

	B:	Mmhm.



	H:	Both grandkids, so they know each other?



	B:	Mmhm. They all come every year since they were born.



	H:	Without their parents? Oh, isn’t that neat. And how old are they again? B:	Seven and eleven.

	H:	Seven and eleven, okay. So what kinds of stuff do you do together?





	B:	Well, they take swimming lessons. The grandson took piano, the granddaughter didn’t wanna take that, she wanted to take dance so she took dance. We went to Destin, we went to Daytona, we went to Jacksonville, we went to SeaWorld, Medieval Town, you name it, we just go.

	H:	You just have fun? B:	Yes.

	H:	Oh that’s neat.



	B:	They have a full summer. And I take them back just in time for them to go back to school.

	H:	Now correct me if I’m wrong: you’re having more fun than they are.



	B:	It wears me out! It’s tiring, I mean it really is. Yeah, you know. And then what’s happening now is that because of the age difference one want to do this and the other wants to do something different.

	H:	Do they have friends in the neighborhood that they look forward to seeing? B:	They have cousins, but they don’t live here.

	H:	No I mean when they come and live with you do they have kids that they hang out with here at all?

	B:	No, just the kids from church, Sunday school, something. They’ll see kids at Sunday school or Vacation Bible School, that sort of thing.

	H:	Okay.



	B:	And then my husband’s sisters have grandchildren so they’re here. But they live out in Fairfield so we see them.





	H:	Okay. That’s neat, that’s neat. I think we should probably wrap up, I want to thank you so much—

	B:	You sure you got everything? [Laughter]



	H:	No, we don’t have everything. As a matter of fact, as soon as I turn this thing off I’m gonna think of seventeen more questions—

	B:	Well just call me.



	H:	But I’ll give you a call or we’ll get together again. Let me thank you— B:	What number do you have for me? You have my home, or my cell?

	H:	Well, let me turn this off. I’m going to formally thank you, Regis, for your time today and I’m gonna close this out.





[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Abby Lovett



	Audit-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, March 22, 2021 Final-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, March 30, 2021