AAHP 264; Cohens; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 264 Carolyn Cohens African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Diedre Houchen on December 21, 2011 50 minutes | 21 pages







Abstract: In this interview, Carolyn Cohens discusses her works as a painter, a talent first inspired by a painter at Mt. Pleasant Baptist Church. Church was the center of her community, and she describes her experience with its services, prayers, songs, and religious paintings. The paintings provoke the topic of race because she considers the varying ways people depict Jesus. She explains the religious scenes she’s painted in detail, and continues by explaining her family’s influence upon her religious beliefs. Ms. Cohens momentarily shifts from painting to storytelling and then education. She explains that as a 1966 high school graduate, she did not witness the effects of schools’ integration until her child enrolled in school. She elaborates on the importance of education to future generations of Black students, and then returns to discussing the personal significance of her paintings. The last painting discussed is of a couple from Rosewood, prompting Ms. Cohens explain her role as a community historian.



[Keywords: African American History; Art; Religion; Education; Levy County]



Standards:

SS.8.A.1.7 View historic events through the eyes of those who were there as shown in their art, writings, music, and artifacts.



SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.



SS.912.A.7.17 Examine key events and key people in Florida history as they relate to United States history.



SS.912.A.7.8, SS.7.C.3.12 Brown v. Board of Education







For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 264

Interviewee: Carolyn Cohens Interviewer: Diedre Houchen Date: December 21, 2011



	H:	Okay, so you walked me a little bit through elementary school and then I got sidetracked a little [Laughter] by the other questions. But I think I want to ask you when did you know you were a painter?

	C:	Well, when I was a little girl and we were at church I wished to be a painter. It was one of my teacher’s husband, Mr. Nelson, he had given a painting of Christ and a child and they were Black to the church, Mt. Pleasant, where we were going. And we would go to church every Sunday and took prayer meeting on Wednesday. And I would sit there and I would watch that painting and I thought that was the most beautiful thing I had ever seen in my life. And I wished to become a painter. And then it was, I was much, much older so I’ve only been painting about, off and on, maybe twenty years, maybe. Kind of dabbling some. And the kids liked it, the little ones, and then I worked with children in the schools and they seemed to appreciate it. And well people asked for me to come and show my work. So evidently somebody likes it besides me [Laughing].

	H:	This isn’t dabbling this is great Ms. Carolyn. This is amazing. C:	I feel that it’s my gift.

	H:	So you mentioned two things. You mentioned going to church and wishing on it and that it’s a gift. I’m going to pull this piece over here and I want you to talk to me about the place of church in the community you grew up in. Cause so much of your work has to do with religious and spiritual themes that it would appear that the church was the center in your life.





	C:	Yes it was because we always went to church on Sunday and you went to Sunday school and there were always activities that the church—when I was little, every year they would take us to Paradise Park over in Ocala. Then they would invite singers to come in different programs, and when I was little I got a chance to see Brother Joe May, The Staple Singers. It was just really nice because the church was actually, the church at home, was the two main places in the community. And there was a lot of business that was taken care of at church as well. So the families were close and there was not too much other things to do. You would go to church, but you enjoyed it. You enjoyed it.

	H:	Tell me the name of the church again. C:	Mt. Pleasant Baptist Church.

	H:	Mt. Pleasant.



	C:	[Inaudible 3:06]



	H:	Okay, so this is an African American Baptist church. C:	Yes.

	H:	What was service like?



	C:	Oh, it was amazing. We had several ladies there, I’ll never forget. Reverend Hampton, he was our pastor, and there were a lady, Mrs. Gallfly, she was always so pretty and dressed up, and she would get happy in church and she would shout. And then there was another lady that always would just pray and we would always listen to her prayers. Ms. Nona, they called Ms. Nona. And it was just amazing to be in church and it was a lot different church then than it is now. And the singing—





	H:	How big was the church?



	C:	Oh, it was, well, it was pretty big. It was always a lot of people there, because it wasn’t like it is today in a whole lot of different churches. You had a couple of churches, and they would go to each church. They would have some…

	H:	So there would be maybe two or three main churches at the entire African American community who went to church.

	C:	Well, yes.



H:  And would you say that most of the African American community went to church? C:   In the older days, yes they did. It was one thing you would always be there on

Sunday morning for church unless you were sick. We had a bell outside of the church, and that bell would ring for service, and then it would also ring if there was a disaster in the community they would ring that bell.

H:  Where was the church? So I’m looking at that road right in front of your house, and where was the church in relation to where you lived?

C:  Well it was close enough you could walk to it. [Laughter] H:  Okay, okay.

C:   So you could walk to it.



H:   And were there White churches in Chiefland at that same time?



	C:	Oh yes it was a lot of White churches in Chiefland, but it wasn’t as many Black churches there so. And my grandmother and grandfather, they were active in the church. And my sister Margie, she was the secretary and I couldn’t wait until she grew up and went to college so I could be secretary too. [Laughter] She never knew it, but I wanted her job.





	H:	Did you get it?



	C:	Yes I did!



	H:	Good for you.



	C:	Yes I did.



	H:	Good for you, okay. So do we have someone, we have someone, a preacher, reverend—tell me his name again.

	C:	Walter Hunt.



	H:	Walter Hunt, and a pianist, someone playing the piano or the organ or any instruments in the church at that time?

	C:	Well we had a piano and Ms. Battles would play the piano sometime, and other people. And I can’t think about, I’ve forgotten one of them, it’s been a long time.

	H:	That’s alright.



	C:	[Laughter]



	H:	That’s alright.



	C:	Oh goodness, but she was there and she played, Ms. Battles, she played a lot.



She taught piano at school.



	H:	Okay.



	C:	Yes.



	H:	So church was something that everyone, most people, did, and not only was church something that everybody went to on Sundays unless they were sick, but it was the center of the community. You said a lot of business.

	C:	Yes it was.





H:  Okay, now in terms of what you’ve learned about who you were and who God was at church, I notice that you said someone brought a painting and it was a Black Jesus?

C:   Uh-huh.



	H:	Tell me more about that. What did you learn about who God was and who you were, and who your people were growing up in church?

	C:	Well, the pictures that you normally see it’s he’s White, and then the one that I saw that he was Black I was a little bit confused. But then when I asked my grandmother, she said “He’s in your heart and nobody had really seen him, so therefore he is what he is.” That was her explanation, and “You be good, and keep his commandments and you will find out one day because you listened.” So that part I accepted because I didn’t think that too many people did see him, but to live good and decent and respectful of him, I would some day.

	H:	And by him, you’re speaking of Jesus. C:	Yes.

	H:	Jesus. What do you think really stuck with you about what is important from your religious training as a child? What was being preached from the pulpit?

	C:	Well mostly was do unto others as you would have them do unto you and love thy neighbor as thy self. So I feel like I would try to do the best I can, and then he said that, “If you do good, then good will come to you.” So I tried to treat people the way that I want to be treated. If I can do something for someone to help, I will. And I try not to do anything bad to anyone or cause any problems.





	H:	So take me into this piece. We’ve got a piece here, you can’t see it, you won’t be able to tell on the audio, but there’s a piece here and the overwhelming color is blue and we are at a body of water. And we have what appears to be a preacher and it’s all Black people in the picture. Well we’ve got a preacher in white and around his head is almost glowing with light. And in the distance you have trees behind this body of water and there is somebody in the water who looks like, he’s in white as well, he is about to be baptized. And we’ve got some people on the shore, one is praying, hands up. Hands up in prayer, and the others are watching what is about to happen. And this don’t happen too often anymore, this kind of baptism, so can you, now me just explaining what we are looking at, can you tell me anything more about it?

	C:	Well, yes. Long ago the churches didn’t have a pool, so the baptism was at a pond or a creek that was nearby. So the one that we had was called long pond, and it was only a few miles from where we lived and also at the river they would go to the river and have the baptism. And for the picture was the little light around his head, that would represent a holy man, so that would be the minister, and then other people in white, they’re waiting to be baptized.

	H:	How important was a baptism in the community?



	C:	Well it was very important. For me, when I was baptized, it was I think the Sunday before Easter, and I remember my grandmother let me wear my Easter dress after I was baptized. But anyway, it was a way of—I guess you would say a shield of protection. Once you gave yourself in, it was a way of cleansing.

	H:	So a way of cleaning your inner spirit and also being protected by God’s spirit.





	C:	Yes.



	H:	You said a shield of protection. So baptism wasn’t just about your membership in the church, it was a real spiritual, something that happened on the inside.

	C:	Oh yes. It was supposed to mean that you had given your life to Christ, and that you would, I would say, try always to do the best that you can because sometime it’s very hard and nobody’s perfect, so that’s why He forgives us so many times a day for our transgressions. But anyway.

	H:	And what about when you got baptized. Would your status in the community be any different? Would people come say congratulations?

	C:	Oh yes, yes they would, and they become the family. H:	Really?

	C:	The church is your family more so then, and just they invite you and they help guide you. There were deacons and there were ladies that if you had a problem you could go to, like my Aunt Rosetta. She would tell you different things and try to give Bible study. And then there was the prayer band that could go different places and pray in different homes. And you could hear the singing all over when I was little. They had the prayer band, a group of ladies that’d go around and pray.

	H:	Pray and sing?



	C:	Oh goodness, you could hear the singing a mile away. It was really wonderful, but it doesn’t happen that much anymore.

	H:	Do you remember any of the names of songs that they would sing?



	C:	Well, one of my favorite was “The Little Brown Church.” I liked that one.





	H:	Can you tell me any of the lines to that? C:	Oh goodness it’s been so long.

	H:	[Laughter] That’s all right, that’s all right.



	C:	I think it was “The little brown church in wild wood,” and then there’s another one that I really love: “I’ve Been Walking around Heaven All Day.” And my most favorite is “Let the Work I’ve Done Speak for me.”

	H:	“Walking Around Heaven All Day.”



	C:	Uh-huh. Wouldn’t that be just wonderful? H:	It would be very wonderful.

	C:	Just walk around heaven all day.



	H:	Yes, yes, and let the work I’ve done speak for me. C:	Speak for me, yes.

	H:	Which is a great testament to character and the way you live your life with character speaks for you. That’s wonderful. Okay, so thank you for sharing with me about baptism and what that was. And I would imagine this is kind of where we get the whole “Wade in the Water”.

	C:	Oh yes, the “Wade in the Water,” I remember that song. H:	Yes, yes, I love that song.

	C:	[Laughter]



	H:	Okay, so you have some paintings here, well before I move on beyond religion, I’m going to pull over this painting which I thought was really beautiful as well. And it’s important to me to get your perspective on these because I think that our understanding of spirituality and religion isn’t as deep sometimes as it used to be,





and our children aren’t taught the same things, so I love the way you represent some of the things we’re supposed to be learning in church through your paintings. So I wanted you to take me into this painting and tell me about it.

Maybe I should describe it for the audio first, so people know what we’re—or would you like to describe it? Okay, so we’ve got another blue painting, which I thought was interesting. The background is blue, light blue, and you see a man who is naked and he’s kind of crouched it looks like, crouched or kneeling maybe. And there is an angel; would you say it’s an angel?

	C:	Angels, two angels.



	H:	Okay, and is this Jesus? C:	Yes.

	H:	Okay, so he’s reaching out his hand to Jesus. Once again we’re talking about all Black characters. So the naked man who’s crouched—

	C:	Is covered.



	H:	Is looking up, and covered, yes, he’s covered by a white sheet which two angels are holding on either side of him. But he’s reaching up to Jesus with one hand and Jesus is holding his hand, and Jesus’ other hand is on top of his head, and it almost looks as though Jesus is praying or blessing him. Something’s happening. You know that he’s being touched by God in that moment. And the man’s got a kind of serious face I would say. This is an important moment in his life, and they’re these two beautiful angels, like I said, who are holding the sheet around this naked man. And in the side of the picture you see a white dove holding an





olive branch and she’s carrying, this dove is carrying, this olive branch toward this picture. So that’s the description for the audio. So tell me about what this is.

	C:	Well this painting was done for a friend of mine and he’s now a minister, but he was talking about his life before he became a minister. And he said that he had done a whole lot of bad things, just about everything you could name, and he was saying that, he said “Would you paint me a picture?” And I asked him “What would you like?” And he said “Well, just paint one that you think I should have, that shows me.” So when I thought about it and he was home in Chiefland and he left and he went back to his home. And I thought about it while he was gone. And I started working on the painting, and I kept thinking “Now he was a little devil when he was younger and did all that he could and all that he shouldn’t.” And I said, “But now he’s changed his life.” So to me a change like that is to be reborn and to be cleansed of course. So you would have to go through the baptism and then give yourself the other way. And I was always told as a girl, a child, that “God sends his angels to look after you.” So, and I put the angels, the little angels there, and he’s been cleansed or baptized and changed. So and then there’s Christ to pray and to hold his hand. Then there’s the dove and the peace, the olive branch. So to me he’s at the peace, at peace with himself, and he’s changed. And he’s given his life to Christ.

	H:	And you said that you felt as though your painting was a gift. From who and what’s the gift?

	C:	Well, my grandmother always said that “If you be good and that God gives all of us a gift.” So I wanted to paint and I asked for that one, so he blessed me with





that—to be able to put down a thought on canvas. I may not be the greatest artist in the whole world, but thank goodness they said that there’s no bad art really.

	H:	[Laughter]



	C:	So I can kind of slide under the wire. H:	No, it’s beautiful.

	C:	But I feel that this was a gift that was given, and I was told always too as a child that, “The idle mind is the devil’s workshop.” So when I’m at home and I don’t have anything else to do, I can always sketch something or try to put it on canvas so it won’t be forgotten to the world.

	H:	I’m going to ask a little more there. So in your life and in your grandparents’ life this God was a very real and present thing that you could talk to and make requests of and who would respond. Would you say that that is true?

	C:	Well, yes, because my family always was a praying family and even though I could not see God, but I was taught to believe that he was in heaven and he hear and he knows always. And well you’d pray and asked for your needs and the needs of others, and she would say, “He may not come at every call, but he will come when he’s really needed.”

	H:	How did your grandparents learn that church tradition to pass on to you? C:	From their parents.

	H:	From their parents. Was it always a Baptist church that they went to? Were they raised Baptists?





C:  Yes, because I can remember once that my grandmother would let the Jehovah Witness, they would come by in which they believe somewhat different, but it all messages are acceptable. You just have to know what—

H:   What to take.



	C:	Exactly. So they would come by every Wednesday and one day they told my grandmother if she did not join that church that she would not go to heaven. And she got mad and she said the other that she would go where her parents went because they were Baptists too. So when I got back home they were standing out the door not looking so happy, so I explained to them that for the company’s sake and to stick to the Bible and they would always be welcome, and she wouldn’t have any problems with them. But don’t tell her what she had to do because she was born in 1900 and she wasn’t going for that one. So they still remained friends and I still see them from time to time, so everybody know their little…

	H:	Right, you have your tradition and that’s okay. C:	Exactly, exactly.

	H:	Okay. Alright, would you say Ms. Carolyn that you—are there differences between African American churches when you were growing up and White churches when you were growing up? Did you notice any of the differences between the two traditions?

	C:	Well, I never went to a White church when I was a younger. So we would always have singing and praising real loud, so I was happy enough with that. And so I didn’t ever go to a White church until I was an adult.





	H:	And what was it like the first time you went as an adult?



	C:	Well the first time I went as an adult it was, I think, at a funeral I believe it was. H:	Okay.

	C:	So everybody was crying and kind of sad. So I don’t think really everyone, it was everybody. I knew the family and all, so it was, we were supportive and they were receptive. But I always went to my church.

	H:	Right.



	C:	And a friend of mine, he’s Black, and he attends a White church, he’s a member there, and everybody, he’s really, really nice and he sings there. And I’ve gotten to know some of the people and it’s all well, as long as you bring the word from the Bible, I’m fine. It doesn’t matter what name is on the sign as long as you bring the word correct. It’s all good.

	H:	I don’t know if we brought it up here, the Origination of Man piece; it doesn’t look like that came up here. I may ask if somebody would get that.

	C:	We have the one book.



	H:	Okay, okay. So there are a number of pieces. There’s this book Out of the Pass: A Noble Leader. And then there’s this piece over here that have to do with telling a story. It’s almost as though the story is being told for children. So I wanted you to tell me more about, one, storytelling in general in your art and then tell me about these stories.

	C:	Okay, well this one is a story that I painted for a man in Cross City that was very respectable, that came from Daytona, and he came to Cross City as a teacher and then later he became a principal. His name was Mr. Oliver. And it was kind





of funny because I listened to the story that people would tell me about him, and they said that he was a strong disciplinarian. So this painting is of a teacher and two little, two boys and one little girl, and the principal has his paddle and the first boy has his hands stretched out in front like “I didn’t do it.” And then the little girl, she’s already crying because she just knows she’s gonna get it. And then there’s a little small boy behind that he’s got his hand on his little hiney because he know it’s gonna hurt. So I know about that when I was going to school because my teacher had a little strap she called Kilroy, and she tried to kill Carol and two little boys.

	H:	[Laughter] Okay.



	C:	Yes.



	H:	And tell me the name of the gentleman again. C:	His name was Prince Oliver.

	H:	Prince Oliver.



	C:	And he lived over in Cross City and there’s this street that’s named after him, Oliver Street, and there’s a center that’s named after him—the Oliver Center.

	H:	Tell me why he is a famous person.



	C:	Well, I think that he was one of the first Black principals there in Dixie County.



	H:	What about your principal where you went to school, elementary, middle school?



What was that principal like? Do you remember?



	C:	Well he was, Mr. Cyprus, I remember him vaguely, not as much as I did Mr.



Haile. I’ll never forget him. He was kind of strong too; he’d let you know that he did not play and I can appreciate what he did. He gave me a paddling one day,





and I never forgot it. But I know I needed it. I know I needed it, so he kind of gave it to me. But I wasn’t mad.

	H:	Was this middle school? C:	Yes it was middle school.

	H:	Okay, and this was a Black man, Mr. Haile?



	C:	Yes, yes. He came from Valdosta, Georgia. And he and his wife were both teachers. She was my home economics teacher. Her name’s Juliet, and she taught me to sew, and she taught me some to cook, and she was really nice. I’ll never forget her.

	H:	How many students would be in that middle school with you?



	C:	Well we probably had about twenty, maybe thirty. It was a lot of kids when I was little and even when I went to high school. When we started out we had about sixty something students in the tenth grade. By the time we graduate we might have had thirty. Cause we had two different groups; it was so many of us.

	H:	I have a question for you. So Brown vs. Board of Education was signed in 1954. Do you remember hearing that schools were integrating when you were growing up and going to school? I know that in Alachua County that didn’t happen until 1970. Schools didn’t get integrated. So I’m just wondering did you even know about it. Was it something on your horizon?

	C:	Well, no we didn’t really know about it, and then too at the time a lot of us didn’t want to. We didn’t want to go to school there. Because when we were at our school it was like a family, you’d go there and you’d go by the different rules. And it was a lot different, but I didn’t ever go to a school where Blacks and Whites





went together. There were only a few that went to my school in Williston and they lived in the Black neighborhood, the children may go. But as far as my class, I never went to school with a White child and I graduated 1966 from Williston.

	H:	Okay, and what about your children? So you had children, and where did they go to school?

	C:	My daughter, Katrina, she went to school to Chiefland, and she graduated of course. She was right in there; she was a cheerleader and everything. So she was fine.

	H:	And schools were integrated at that time. C:	Yes, yes.

	H:	How did you feel about sending her to the integrated school?



	C:	Oh, I was fine with it, because I knew that she could hold her own even though there was some name calling and what have you early on in school. And probably later on too that she didn’t tell me about it. But I did tell her before she went to school her name is Katrina Michelle Cohens. And anybody else call you anything else that’s not your name, and you can politely tell them that that’s their name. So therefore we didn’t have a whole lot of problems. One time I went to school, and a little boy had called out her name and the teacher asked if she had told me about it. And I said “Tell me what?” And she finally told me about the child that said to her, and I just looked and her and she said “You told me my name is Katrina.” So it is that.

	H:	[Laughter] Period.





	C:	Right, right. So it was okay; we didn’t have a lot of problems. My daughter, she became a cheerleader and she was fine. But there’s always things that you watch out for and you know how to get around, so she was fine, yes.

	H:	You told me that part of the reason you paint is to put the memories down and part of it is for children specifically. What is it that you want children to learn from your work, either from your work or from the stories that you’re telling? Why is it so important for you to pass the message on to children?

	C:	Well, the past is the past, and there’s not as much documentation on what Blacks have done. There’s a few books, and there’s not enough Blacks, I feel, to show that there is something good in Blacks. Because when I was raised up you didn’t see too many Black books. I think I saw about maybe two. And there’s not was a lot about history of Blacks inventing anything or really doing anything. So to me is whatever little I can do is one more step for one more child to see and know that we can do something too. So and to be able to share a part of history that Blacks participated in that is gone and it’s no more. And to show different scenes of different things that we’ve done and how life was.

	H:	So would you say you are proud of the history of your family and the turpentine industry in Levy County?

	C:	Well yes, I am proud of my family. I am proud of being Black, as to being…because we have come a long way. There are things that need to be done, but to have pride in oneself is a great thing. And to do something pride for—not a boastful kind of pride, but to be proud in something that you can share with someone else and that they can learn from and carry on. Because to me if





there’s fifty children in the room and I touch one or two, I’m happy because that one or two will touch maybe one or two more and that will touch some more. And then they will know and realize that there’s some good things that we can do also.

	H:	I always ask this of people, particularly a generation older than me: what are your desires for Black children growing up today? What do you want to see them become and how do you want to see them being taught?

	C:	Well, I’ve always believed that, and I’ve heard the saying as well, is that you cannot really be if you don’t really know who you are. And I think from the beginning that one needs to start a child knowing out that it’s his worth or her worth. And to become educated and not so much as the fast, but to be able to be educated where that everything fits. Because you can go too fast and you miss a lot. But go a little bit slower and be able to withstand and to become educated and self-supported and self-sufficient and be strong. And have that pride within yourself is to go on and to take care of your business. That’s what I would like to see.

	H:	I am hearing almost a different definition of education in what you’re saying than what we’re where talking about in schools today. Because you’re talking about, it sounds like, you’re talking about somebody being built up on the inside and that education is supposed to tell you who you are, who your people are, where you came from, and how you got over. As opposed to how to do math, algebra, science, reading, and all kind of other new stuff that’s going on in the world today. So when you’re saying that you can be educated too fast, it sounds like I





might be hearing part of that, that what we’re doing is filling them up with a whole bunch of facts, but not filling up who they are, filling up them on the inside.

	C:	Well the thing about it is that for anyone you can pretend to be someone else, but to me I know that I was taught that years ago that Black people were not allowed to read or write. So I feel that once you or any other teacher appeal to the part of a person that if you don’t know a thing, because just like right now I can tell you “You can’t do something,” and you’ll think about it. And that’s the main thing that you would probably like to do; it’s because I said you can’t. So back before, everyone, Black women and young men, knew that they were Black and they were not allowed or was not supposed to learn to read or write back in slavery.

What was the most important thing was to be able to become educated and to get a degree. And a lot of Black people went into teaching because that was the thing back in the day is to become a teacher as to teach. So now with children not remembering or not ever being told that there was a time that you could not, or would be whipped or whatever, because you had a book. So this is that part that you need to take care of and train and teach along the line that “Okay there was a time that you could not do this, so now which one do you want to do? Do you want to not do this because of what?”

	H:	Because of what.



	C:	Right, so now that you can do this, do this on your own.



	H:	So, helping children today understand that part of the struggle to liberate themselves was to become educated.

	C:	Exactly.





	H:	That was the main tool. C:	Exactly.

	H:	And you grew up on the cusp of that. On the third, fourth, fifth maybe generation of people who were able, allowed to read or write.

	C:	Right. My grandmother could read and write and my grandfather could read and write. And as far as I know, their parents knew how to read and write, because my grandmother was born in 1900 and my grandfather was born 1896. So it was nothing for you to say except, “I’m going to school and I’m going to get a high school diploma.” So that’s what you got. You went to high school, you may not go anywhere else, but you went to high school.

	H:	And got that diploma. C:	Exactly.

	H:	Because it was something folks fought for. C:	Exactly.

	H:	So that you could get.



	C:	Exactly, so with children sometime I wonder if you have to fool them into doing the things that’s good for them. Because like I told my daughter, I said, “If they could make penicillin out of moldy bread, I’m going to make a woman out of you.”

	H:	[Laughter] I love it.



	C:	And I am very proud of her. H:	That’s nice.

	C:	Very proud.





	H:	I hear you. So this picture isn’t just about a man who happened to be famous and also happened to be a teacher. It’s about a time period when the teacher was one of the most respected roles in the Black community.

	C:	Yes.



	H:	And how much respect he commandeered as that teacher and as a principal, and how much he fought to be able to be that teacher. And how much Black people fought to have teachers in our own communities teaching our own children.

	C:	Yes because he came, Mr. Oliver had told me himself that the day that he got off the train in Cross City, he looked around and he wasn’t sure he wanted to stay. But he did and all these things came to pass. No matter what he endured or whatever, but he stayed. And his name still stands even though he’s gone.

	H:	So he let his work speak for him? C:	Exactly.

	H:	He let his work speak for him. C:	So, yes.

	H:	Okay, so there’s two other paintings here that really struck me. One is this couple in Rosewood and the other one is your mother. Your grandmother?

	C:	Well I painted that painting for, my mom passed away and she would go to church and she would speak in church and I would say that—

	H:	Let’s talk about that one first then.



	C:	That she, her heart, was in the right place. And she had gotten really sick and she had cancer. And I started this painting and I thought “She will go to heaven,”





because she’s always try to do good things for people and everything, even though she had a temper; she was a little spit fire. But she was basically a good person, and she loved church. And after she passed away the painting was done and I thought—with the angel with the gold feather. My grandmother used to always say, “You do good, you get stars in your crown.” So I said, “Well surely she will get a gold feather when she goes to heaven.” So when I used this painting I took a photograph of it and I used it for the thank you cards for the people who brought food and for her after she passed away.

	H:	It’s a gorgeous painting, and when I asked you at your house which is your favorite painting, this is the one you chose.

	C:	Yes.



	H:	It is beautiful. And for me to see such beautiful women, to see angels, to see beautiful women, to see people going to heaven who are African American is priceless. Outside of the significance that it has for you personally, it’s lovely to see those images—

	C:	Thank you.



	H:	Around us, it really is. So the other piece is this couple. And I asked you about this piece at your house and I said, “What is that?” and you said “That’s a couple, a photograph.” You painted a photograph of this couple. You had a photograph of this couple who had lived in Rosewood and you painted this picture from that photograph. And it’s this beautiful picture of a Black man and a Black woman, both in hats. She’s in a brown overcoat; he’s in a black jacket it looks like. He’s got a black matching hat; she’s got a brown. She looks sharp; they both look





sharp. And they’re sitting down together smiling clearly, a loving photo where they posed. They posed for the camera and took this picture as a couple. And I asked you then why you painted this and you started to tell me. Will you talk to me some more about this picture and why you did it?

	C:	Well a friend of mine and my mom’s, a man, his name was Deacon Andrew Lee, and he was raised up in Rosewood. And these were his parents, the grandparents I believe, and his daughter showed me the picture after he had passed away. And she asked me what could I do with it, because the picture had faded, the original photograph. And I didn’t want to touch it, it was such a beautiful picture and I was afraid to put any paint on it, or do anything and I told her I would attempt to do a painting myself. So this is what I came up with of them.

	H:	It’s not the image we see of Rosewood normally. When we hear the story of Rosewood, we hear the story of violence and of racism. But that’s not what this picture represents at all.

	C:	No, because these people were in Rosewood before the massacre. And as far as I know that it did not—well my family would not talk about Rosewood to me, my grandparents. And the young lady that I got the picture from, she didn’t talk about it a whole lot either. But I can remember her telling me that he was brought out, they had to go to Otter Creek. And I do know that was the route that was taken.

But normally we don’t really discuss a lot about Rosewood, even though I have read a couple of books and I had a man to give me an unpublished manuscript





for me to read, that he had interviewed several of the people that were alive during that time.

	H:	Why is it not talked about?



	C:	Well, because we know it’s two sides to every story, and I’m the kind of person that I listen to both to see. A lot of people just don’t talk about it because it’s still a sore spot for a lot of Levy Countians.

	H:	So, you also are a historian. C:	Yes.

	H:	Can you tell me—and when we went to Levy County we went to the train museum—what is the name of that museum and what is your work there?

	C:	Well, it used to be the old train depot and then it was abandoned after the railroad was taken up and the train no longer ran. Then, years later, they brought it back to Chiefland and it sat there and it was restored. So the Chamber of Commerce, they set up office in the middle of it. And then someone said, “Well, we need to do something with the front.” And I saw a young man that was on a, a city commissioner, and he said, “Oh Ms. Carolyn, I’m going to ask you something.” And I said, “Yes?” And he said, “We gonna start a train depot committee. Would you come and be on it with us?” I said, “Well, we will see.” So then we did, we met for about a year, and then they said, “Well we don’t have money to buy this and we don’t have money to buy that.” And I said, “Well, my goodness.” I said, “A board, we get a board, we’ll stain it and we can make us some shelves. We don’t have to have bookcases.” So and then they said, “Oh yeah! That’s what we’ll do, we’ll put Ms. Carolyn in charge of everything. She can





design it.” Okay, so it got designed, I told, and he sent the city workers and they built us a beautiful table and put shelves around the wall. I put pictures up, and artifacts in, and people donated artifacts and what have you. And after that then they said, “Oh people are coming in. We need a tour guide. Get Ms. Carolyn.”

	H:	[Laughter]



	C:	So, I’m the tour guide for the museum, the curator, and whatever. H:	But it’s a history that you’re proud of.

	C:	Yes.



	H:	All of Levy County’s history.



	C:	Yes, cause I was born and raised in Levy County and I know a lot of the older heads, their families, and the history of Levy County, and all that I don’t know I don’t mind asking. And I have a good friend, Mr. Lindon Lindsey, and he’s a historian and was a newspaper person and a photographer. So he helps me and I call him and he got me in the right direction.

	H:	So in closing, what has been the best, you have a gift that you’ve shared with everybody through your art, what has been the best return on that gift for you? What have you received from doing this for so many years?

	C:	Well that it makes people happy and with the books, it’s made families proud. H:	And by the books you mean the two books that you have written about Levy

County’s history.



	C:	That I’ve done. Yes. So it makes the families, they’re proud and they want another one even though there’s two and with my artwork it makes me happy that other people can appreciate what I do.





	H:	Well thank you Ms. Carolyn. Thank you very much. C:	You’re welcome and thank you my dear.

	H:	Yes.



[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Jennifer Romero, February 4, 2016 Audit-edited by:	Anupa Kotipoyina, February 20, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 22, 2019