AAHP 816; Eberling; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 816 Ray Eberling

Interviewed by Alana Gomez on January 12, 2021 50 minutes | 24 pages



Abstract: This interview with Ray Eberling centered on race relations and activist organizations at UF between the 1960s and 80s. Some of the groups include Southern Student Organizing Committee, a southern affiliate of the Students for Democratic Society, the Student Mobilization Committee and the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee. All of these organizations carried antiwar sentiments and supported the Civil Rights efforts. Although now their objectives would be tame, Eberling explains how they were radical at the time. Because of this and the right-leaning legislature, UF President O’Connell dismissed them at times. Eberling discusses interactions with O’Connell, his role as a “moderate segregationist,” and his own participation in the sit- ins and rallies. He also explains the formation and evolution of the Black Student Union, which developed into the African American Studies department on campus, as well as The Independent Florida Alligator. Finally, Eberling discusses key politicians and activists at the time like Governor Claude Kirk and H. Rap Brown.





Keywords: [University of Florida; Oral History; Student Activism; African American Studies; Civil Rights; Antiwar and the Vietnam War]



AAHP 816

Interviewee: Ray Eberling Interviewer: Alana Gomez Date: January 12, 2021



	G:	I know you’ve done Oral History interviews, so I still wanna ask, is it okay that we record this just for oral history purposes?

E:   Oh sure that’s fine.



	G:	Okay perfect. So yeah, if you could just start by telling me the year you specifically attended UF, and stating your full name, of course.

	E:	Oh okay. And again, it’s a little garbled where I’m sitting, unfortunately in my office here. Could you repeat that?

	G:	Yes. To state your name, and then the years you attended UF.



	E:	Okay. Full name is Raymond A. Eberling. I attended UF from the fall of 1968 through December of 1970 as a junior and senior. And that was all terms; I didn’t take any terms off.

	G:	Okay. And could you tell me what the atmosphere of UF was like then?



	E:	For me personally, it was a culture shock. I had been attending two years, of what we called then a junior college, Palm Beach Junior College, graduated from there. And my first time, you know, living out of town and going to the big university and all that. The atmosphere was one that was in transition, definitely. In fact, I was just thinking that I have two copies of the yearbooks the two years that I was there. You can definitely tell that it was two different editorial staffs doing each yearbook, respectively. And just by looking at the two, you could see the transition from kind of a fraternity/sorority-oriented school to one taken over by the hippie editorial staff. That’s a pretty good analogy. Again, I think it was a school in transition. I think there were about twenty-thousand students total in the





university at that time, and Santa Fe hadn’t started yet, I think. So that was pretty much the student population in town. It was a very divided student body, as far as I was concerned because it was sort of forcing you to choose between, kind of being in the hippie radical corner or being in the fraternity, sorority corner, and there was this big gray area of students, such as myself who didn’t feel quite at home in either corner.

	G:	Mmhm. And could you talk about the racial climate of UF a little bit?



	E:	Well, there were so few Black students at the university at the time. In fact, I was going over one of the O’Connell interviews before I called you, which I did previously. And I think there were only about three hundred Black students out of these twenty thousand students. Of course, there was the relationship with the town, and some of them were progressive organizations in the student body, most of which were not recognized at the time. [Inaudible 3:08] Had something of working relationships to try to, you know, make contact and be supportive of the Black community within Gainesville. I remember hearing about some racial incidents a few years before that. My brother [inaudible 3:28] in the fall of [19]64, and he was in the old Hume Hall, and there was a Black student on his floor that they had assigned a private room, and he never could figure out if other students didn’t want to room with him—the White students or whatever. My brother had just come down from the New York high school, and he just worked up, introduced himself. The Black student, whose name escapes me, was sort of stand offish, perhaps out of there is no trust established there, I don’t know. My brother never found out if it was a personal choice on his part to room alone, but





that was the situation. Now that was the fall of [19]64, and then four short years, I personally did not observe anything overtly done, social wise, against of the few Black students that I recognized on campus. In fact, the more progressive elements of the student body, you know, it was pretty well integrated socially for that fraction.

	G:	Mmhm. So, could you talk a little bit about what O’Connell was like as a president?

	E:	He had arrived, I think, in the year just before I got there. And I don’t know how much of his background that you have studied, but he was the first alumnus to become president of the university. He did not have an academic background. You probably know he was chief justice of the Florida Supreme Court. He had replaced J. Wayne Reitz as president. I’m sure you know all this stuff, I’m just trying to sort this out in my head. He had issues that he was dealing with. I told you that I had talked to him once alone and that was an odd situation. It was spring, maybe March or April, of [19]69, which was kind of a jury overcast day, like today, and cool. I got out to Cedar Key to basically study for an exam and try to get my head into a place where I didn’t have so many distractions, and I was out on the beach at Cedar Key, that small beach they have out there. I had fallen in the water and cut my ankle on coral, and I saw somebody in the distance, one man in the distance who was walking alone, and we sort of started walking to each other because I was wading, and the closer I got, I said that looks like Stephen C O’Connell. And indeed it was. He asked me if I was okay, and I said “Yes, thank you” and something to the effect of “I’m assuming you’re here to get





away from things,” I knew he was going through a rough period at that time. He just asked if I was okay, and then he started to ask me questions about, you know, “As a typical student what do you think of this? What do you think of that?” And it went on for maybe ten minutes. We said our goodbyes, and that was it.

The ironic thing, and I can’t figure out the chronology here. I had just sent you a PowerPoint slide show.

	G:	Yes, thank you.



	E:	I don’t know if you’ve looked at it yet. The very first slide, after the title slide, I don’t know if you have it open. There is a picture from the Gainesville Sun, I’m trying to look at the date here, but it was March 7, I think, 1969. Do you have that picture by any chance?

	G:	Yes, I can pull it up.



	E:	The title on the slide says “Southern Student Organizing Committee,” SSOC. G:	Yes, I have the picture.

	E:	What do you see in the picture in the news people, it was in the Gainesville Sun that day? The day before March sixth, there had been a sit-in in the hallway of the president’s office, in O’Connell’s office. And this had to do with the fact that there was an organization trying to get campus recognition, in other words the permission to meet as a club, like any other club would do on campus, to use student union facilities to have meetings and to get some funding from the student government, which other clubs can get. The university had turned down their requests. Ill get to what the organization did in a moment, although you may have already researched that. But anyway, the reason I bring up this picture is





there is a bunch of students sitting in a hallway, somebody with a bull horn, saw O’Connell speak and you look down in the center of the picture, at the very bottom, there is a guy with a beard and a tie and that is me. [Laughter]

	G:	Oh. [Laughter]



	E:	But I have to say, I attended meetings at some of these things and a lot of the rallies because when I arrived in the fall of [19]68, it was kind of a blank slate, and I had my political opinions. Personally, I felt that the Vietnam War was not the right thing to do, but other than that, I was a clean-cut kid coming from Palm Beach County and going to the big school. So, I started attending some of these meetings, mostly at the urging of a couple of my friends who had come up here as freshman. And so, I don’t think I was ever a hard-caring member or anything, but I went to a lot of the rallies, the sit-ins and all that sort of thing. I was just a face in the crowd, quite literally in this picture. The particular slide, the organization Southern Student Organizing Committee, have you researched any of that?

	G:	No, but I think it’s popped in some of the archive documents I’ve been looking at, and I didn’t know what it was.

	E:	Okay. Were you familiar with SDS, from the [19]60s, the Students for Democratic Society?

	G:	No.



	E:	That was the large nationwide organization that was sort of like, just an amalgam of anti-war and pro-civil rights activists at universities across the country. I forget the particulars, but I know you can look it up. SSOC, which we used to call soc,





was sort of a southern affiliate of that. For some reason, SDS was such a scary word, or a scary phrase in The South? That this other organization, I think out of the University of Tennessee had started throughout The South, as an alternative. And they were sort of affiliated. And again, Southern Student Organizing Committee, by today’s standards if you look what they were trying to do, would be very, very tame. They simply were opposed to the war, you know, pro-Civil Rights and they simply wanted recognition to be on campus.

	G:	Oh, so they are the club that wanted recognition?



E:   Yeah, I mean I wouldn’t club, that’s not the word I should use. But again, it was an organization, a regional organization at multiple universities in The South at the time.

G:   So the sit-in was because that organization didn’t get approval?



	E:	Yes. I believe that’s the case. Somewhere I have in my files, once I can send it to you, was the article that accompanied this picture. And I don’t think it was much more complicated than that, other than the fact that any of these student organizations at the time, went against the norms of the day. They were intimidated, to what we call the establishment.

	G:	Yes. And this was, I guess President O’Connell probably didn’t want on campus, which is why it didn’t get approved?

	E:	And again, I can’t tell you the particulars. And I didn’t read all of the big O’Connell interview although I did about a year ago. I can’t remember if this was even mentioned in that interview. But he was kind of straight and narrow to follow established norms, and this was out of the established norms, and if you read





other parts of the interview, when you get to the establishment of the Black Student Union in that particular period of time in his presidency, you know, years later as he’s being interviewed by Sam Proctor, he’s like “well, if these people had just asked for an appointment to come see me, I probably would have seen them.” You know, so I think at least outwardly, just follow the rules like everybody else.

	G:		And do you remember what it was like with him as president pertaining to any initiatives for Black students or anything like that?

	E:	I don’t remember the particulars, until I read that—do you have the Sam Proctor interview with him?

	G:	Yes, I went through it too, but not the whole thing.



	E:	And those are his reminisces. But there have been some mechanisms before he arrived, as I understand it, to start setting up [inaudible 13:40] I was there when we had the first Black Student Athletes; Willie Jackson comes to mind for the football team. So there was sort of infrastructure in place, and I know that what you read in his interview narrative is contrary to some of the narratives. Were you around in the fall of 2019, I think it was, when we had the big celebration of fifty years of the African American Studies Program?

	G:	Yes.



	E:	Where we had all the speakers. G:	Yes.

	E:	There were some speakers there, whose names escape me, that said “he didn’t do anything, he didn’t do anything.” Well, again, there were some formalized,





statewide university mechanisms in place to try to make some things happen. But again, that was very, very establishment. People who said make this happen now. I don’t have the memories in particular, that’s where I don’t know if I will be much help to you.

	G:	Mmhm. So I know maybe you can’t judge based off what you said, but do you feel like he had done things or that he was moving forward with racial progress? Because a big complaint was that he was purposefully stalling it.

	E:	Well, and I’ve heard that too, of course that was by some people who were, I guess in the meetings with him. I have a feeling, this is going to sound like a very strange term, but maybe you’ve heard it before. But back in the day before the Civil Rights Bill of [19]64, there was a term used for politicians called “Moderate segregationist." It sounds like an oxymoron. That was to distinguish people from people like George Wallace in Alabama who was governor, but blocked them from the doorway of the university campus, and everything like that. I think O’Connell in his day was probably considered a very middle-of-the-road, moderate segregationist. [Laughter] I know that sounds like an oxymoron, but as you also probably know, the Democratic Party, this was a one-party state like most of the rest of The South until that started disintegrating in [19]64, pretty much after the Civil Rights Bill passage. So, when you ran for office in Florida, you ran in the Democratic Party if you wanted to get anywhere ‘cause there was no state-wide organized Republican Party. They existed locally in places, but if you wanted to get elected, you entered the Democratic primary, and that Democratic primary, there might be ten candidates for governor, you know, who





ran the gamut from the absolute crazy right, uber segregationist, to the ones who basically just didn’t want to talk about it, you know, were just saying “we’ll let things happen in good time.” There was all these pro-life latitudes, whatever you want to call them, that were just going to happen, you can’t make people love each other, which was a common phrase at the time. But it was very, very much, relatively speaking the middle-of-the-road positon. And I don’t know how much you’ve studied political history, but when some people tried to be, even a tip toe, past that stance, like former Governor LeRoy Collins, they were basically blown out of the water. After he was governor, you know, he eight years later tried to run for the US Senate and was beat by a relatively unknown Republican because Republicans were making [inaudible 17:39]. He had tried to do things himself as a “Modern segregationist” that really upset people to be in his right flank. And again, I’m repeating myself, but I know that doesn’t make sense in today’s context, but that’s the way reality was at that time.

	G:	Yeah. And do you think O’Connell might have been facing any pressure from the Florida government?

	E:	Well at the time, he became president after the first Republican— since Reconstruction, had been elected governor of Florida. The total dark horse that was [inaudible 18:30] in [19]66 was fascinating ones to follow because two years previously, you know, the Republican candidate for governor was lucky to get his name in any of the state newspapers. And you know, once the Democratic primary happened, the winner of the Democratic primary was considered Governor Elect, so there was sort of like a conservative tidal wave, political





revolution to the right that happened just within a couple of years. So the Republican governor, whose name you may have heard Claude Kirk. [Laughter] He was an interesting character. So, O’Connell was always dealing with the legislature, which was a much more powerful body in the day than the governor, at the time, and he had to deal with Kirk who was trying to, basically, wipe out any Democratic Party presence in the state. He used to say outrageous things. It would be a very imperfect analogy to consider Governor Kirk analogous to today’s Trump. They were similar in that Kirk would say outrageous things for the sake of saying outrageous things. But as a friend described me to him, he was crazy like a fox, you’d say. He would do these things but know exactly what he was doing. And in the end, he actually did a lot of things in the state for the environment and some other issues. Some would argue he was a little [inaudible 20:22] for a project of mine in 2009, about two years before he died. I had been a [inaudible 20:31] when he first ran for governor because I was a political junkie at that age, you know, eighteen years old. But to get back to your original question because I’m rambling here. O’Connell, like any university president even today I think, is always going to be a little on tip toes with the politicians running in the state. He had been very much part of the establishment before that, so in that regard, he didn’t have to worry as much. But then we had a new sheriff in town, some would say a [inaudible 21:04] Kirk. So I hope I’m not rambling too much.

	G:	No, thank you. If you had to describe O’Connell as a president to someone who doesn’t know anything about this period of time, how would you?





	E:	Well, objectively, of course, as I mentioned earlier, as I think you know, he had no background at all in being an officer of an academic institution. He was very proud that he had graduated from here, and as an alum, he was very proud. It was a financial cut for him to go from justice of the Supreme Court for this position but he did it I think out of loyalty to his alma mater. How can I say this? So, yeah, he was an intelligent lawyer who was asked to run an A university with absolutely no professional academia background. So, he was dealing with that.

	G:		And were you at all, I’m assuming you weren’t at Black Thursday, were you in any subsequent protests or meetings for that?

	E:	Again, I would attend an occasional rally or meeting or something like that, but I was so absorbed in my studies. It was a big challenge for me to be here. I had some great professors, but the university didn’t really have all these nice programs they have now for students to make you feel at home and help you.

You were thrown in kind of the deep end of the pool, especially as a junior college transfer. So, I attended some of these, but it was sporadic and again, as an observer. I was never in any leadership positions. I knew some people, at that time, who were sort of doing these things, but again, I was involved as a full-time student in the university orchestra, and I worked at Channel 5 the whole time I was here in the studio. I didn’t have any more time for other things.

	G:	I’m sorry, were you there after 1971?



	E:	Yeah, that’s a good question because some of the stuff in the O’Connell interview by Sam Proctor happened in 1971. I had graduated and gone down to Palm Beach County, tried to get a teaching job. I was gonna try to be a high





school social studies teacher, and the timing was bad on a number of fronts. I came back in 1972, so there was a year absence there where some of that 1971 stuff happened. I was observing some stuff in [19]72- [19]73. When I lived up here, I taught for a year at the Raiford Florida State Prison. I taught the inmates. But I was communing from Gainesville, so I was aware of what was going on, but even being two years out of school and trying to have a career. I was aware of stuff that was going on, but it was almost like a [inaudible 24:40] had passed in two years. I met Sam Taylor, Sam Taylor and I had a mutual friend at that time.

He is still in town, I think you know that probably having attended those sessions back in the fall of 2019. But I was sort of detached from any activist type of thing at that point.

	G:	Mmhm. And you said a little bit on the racial climate earlier, but is there anything notable from it that you’d like to say? I know you said there wasn’t a lot of Black students, so you didn’t really see much.

	E:	Very few [inaudible 25:27]. I didn’t socialize with those people out of work. The colleges back then, if you didn’t socialize with people in your major; [laughter] it sounds funny, but I wasn’t in the College of Journalism, so I wasn’t invited to their parties, I was in the orchestra, but I wasn’t in the school of music, so I wasn’t invited to their parties. So I would know some of these people and see them socially at these events, but really didn’t hang out. I will say in [19]73, after I left Raiford but I was still in Gainesville for another six months or so, the second term I was a substitute teacher in the Alachua County schools. I went and substitute taught at many of these recently integrated schools around the county, including





what was then called Lincoln Middle School, or junior high school maybe, which had been the Lincoln High School, the historically Black high school here in Gainesville. I’ve read some of the history in, you know, when they did integrate the schools, and this was true I know state-wide in Florida, that I think a lot of the Blacks felt like you’re taking away our community, you’re closing our schools, you’re making junior highs because we have the inferior buildings and were not the part of towns where Whites wanna bus their kids to. And so, there were a lot of hard feelings there with the changing Lincoln High School to Lincoln Middle School and integrating it. So I did have a lot more contact, at the time, because I was a substitute teacher, or teacher’s aide, I couldn’t get a real teacher’s job. A lot of the students, by then, were Black. Again, my perspective is that things up in Alachua County, the schools were pretty well run for being integrated for both faculty and students. Now, that’s my perspective. I had a tough time of trying to do that down in Palm Beach County, which was a larger urban area. It had some riots during the integration process in [19]70-[19]71.

	G:	And did O’Connell ever make any comments the racial situation at UF?



	E:	I only remember pretty much, reminded when I read the Sam Proctor interview. I just remember him giving very well crafted public statements, like a politician would. Just very well thought out, prepared statements or something. If I were to look at him and try to read body language, I think a lot of what was going on was outside of his comfort level like “Why did I ever leave the Supreme Court?” [Laughter] I think he always preferred being addressed rather than a university president.





	G:	And what did you two talk about again when you saw him at Cedar Key?



	E:	You know, it’s weird, the only thing I remember talking about, which was very non-controversial. There had been a move at some universities, memory comes to mind, and I have a school schedule. Classes were only Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, Friday, and we had Wednesday off for personal study or research or whatever. And I remember discussing that with him for some reason; we didn’t discuss any of the unrest that was going on at all. Sort of deferring it. [Laughter] The guy is out here, trying to get away from it all. You know, I’m not gonna hit him up with stuff. I was in favor of the objectives of a lot of the student protests, or probably virtually all of the student protests, but I always felt that I didn’t trust the student leadership; who are these people, are they just out for themselves? I was always concerned that they would objectives, that I as kind of more of a center left right I could not be a part of. So getting back to O’Connell at the beach. I remember it being very gentle; I was deferential to him. His brother down in West Palm Beach, who was a very well-known lawyer, prosecutor. My mother had been a secretary in his law firm at one point, and I made that connection on him, I remember that. So, I was polite. I was in late adolescence, early adulthood, and I don’t mean to sound patronizing to you at all, but like in my case, you’re struggling with “Who are you?” At least I was back in my day, and I think a lot of my friends were. Every other semester, or quarters then, I would have a beard one term and then be clean-cut the next. Like “Where do I fit in?” I didn’t really fit in anywhere. That big area between the hippie, radicals and the





fraternity, sorority types. There were a lot of students like that, and they all seemed to be wandering around with the same look in their eyes as I had.

	G:	And the SDS, you were a part of that organization?



	E:	No, no, no. SDS, and again, I would have to look at the history. The SSOC, what we called Southern Student Organizing Committee. They were somehow affiliated with them, a southern affiliation, or subordinate to them. A lot of these student radical organizations were always fighting within the leadership, and they’d eventually go away like that. So again, I remember having a meeting where they were trying to get campus recognition. I remember going to an outdoor rally, and I can remember going to the president’s office that day, which was very much a spontaneous situation, which I think happened at one of the outdoor rallies at the plaza. “Let’s go to university,” you know, “Let’s go to the president’s office.” I hate to say I was kind of along for the ride, but I was much as curious as what was going on. I was certainly not in a leadership position.

	G:	Mmhm. Do you remember anything from that sit-in? Anything O’Connell said or how he reacted?

	E:	Well after that picture that you see, he says “Okay, I’ll let eight or ten of you come into my office,” his personal office wasn’t really that big. He says “Okay, eight or ten of you come in here and say what you want and not just sit out there.” I was kind of like pushed into the office with everybody else, and as I say this, I feel like it’s hardly analogous to what people are saying now about what happened at the Capital the other night. “Oh, I was just going along with these people, and they all wound up in the building,” that was sort of how it was in a way, except we were





doing no damage. He talked to us for maybe five or ten minutes and said “you guys come up with a leader and make an appointment with me, and we’ll see what happens.” That was pretty much it, and we left. There was nothing violent, there was no destruction of things at all.

	G:	And did anything come out of that sit-in?



	E:	I hate to say this, [Laughter] but I don’t remember. I don’t think they ever got their campus recognition, which sounds so crazy today because if you look at campus organizations today, there is something for everybody of any political strife or ethnicity. And this was a big deal back then. I do know that the student body president at the time, I remember his face, I can’t remember his name, took it upon himself, and he was one of these frat guys in a suit, took it upon himself and says “the student government will give you a classroom or conference room in the student union to meet if you want to hold meetings.” That much, I remember.

	G:	Mmhm. And you may have mentioned it, but was President O’Connell part of the decision for them to not become an organization?

	E:	I think he probably had some sort of veto authority. I mean, most of the time, these things would be up to the student government. I think the issue was do we, the establishment, want to be inviting a student pies to provide to this rabbit hole group, you know who were saying all these radical things, which today are very tame things. A wonderful record of things, which you probably already know, is in the old Florida Alligator. Right after that, about a year or two after that, when he was still president—I mean since he had been here in the early [19]70s it’s been





called The Independent Florida Alligator because he, as the university president, was considered by law, by state law, the publisher of that paper. And yet, they were supposed to run things that are [inaudible 35:33] however they wanted, the student editors. So do you know the story? If so, stop me.

	G:	I don’t actually. I did used to work for The Alligator, but I kind of never listened when they told us the story.

	E:	It’s indent in there somewhere around page 140-150 of the long O’Connell interview. What had happened is, I’m trying to think of the date of Roe. V Wade, I think it was [19]72. But they had put it as an insert, an advertising insert, in The Alligator paper contact information throughout the state for abortion counseling, not to get abortion, but numbers that you could call for abortion counseling.

O’Connell tried to stop it, and he went back and forth with the editor, he went back and forth with the, I think the student body president, again, this is like [19]71- [19]72, ‘cause another name, I don’t know if you could contact or not, the student body president’s name at the time was Steve Ulfelder.

	G:	Yes.



	E:	Okay, you know that name? I think he’s still a lawyer in Tallahassee. And the student body president was in favor of the publisher, I believe, in allowing the insert, but Roe v. Wade had not yet been decided, so in the state of the Florida, it was illegal to advertise abortion services. And that’s how The Independent Florida Alligator came to because they came to an agreement that you move off- campus, you can take all your old supplies with you, but you are no longer going to be under the auspices of the university. But I was going to say, when The





Alligator was on-campus, at the time, they were considered one of the best college newspapers in the country by somebody. [Laughter] Probably the school of journalism, or someplace, but they were very good about daily covering what was happening with all the student protesting. They had good coverage. I had actually, the two years I was here, there were probably maybe three or four editors, they would graduate and somebody would step up, and it was a guy at the time had actually been editors a couple years before at the Palm Beach Junior College newspaper, the Beachcomber, and I know them both. Now unfortunately, the one I knew, a gentleman named Ralo Renes, who had become editor of The Florida Alligator probably in 1970, around there. He went on to become a senior editor at the San Francisco Chronicle, but he has since passed away I am sad to hear. The guy has gone by the name of Dave Duced, who was editor of The Florida Alligator. I’ve lost track of him. I think he went into magazine publishing, but all these guys, you know, they weren’t hippie radicals; they grew their sideburns long, the second year or something, that’s how radical they got. [Laughter] It was a good newspaper, and they did all this coverage quite well for a student newspaper.

	G:	Yeah, yeah. I’ve been going through some of the 1971 issues, closer to Black Thursday, so they are for sure. And I wanted to ask too, I’m not sure if you would know, but do you remember any specific spaces or places existing for Black students during your time there?

	E:	As a predecessor the African American Studies program, I was there and I cant remember the date, or whatever. But in very short order, they had this old two-





and-a-half story cracker house, ironically in the office of the university where the present program is now, the modern building. They started the Black Student Union that much I remember. That was going on there. I was majoring in the college of education, I remember there was a woman, a White woman in my class who was very interested in the whole African American Studies, which was just starting to emerge; she was dating a Black student. So I knew a little about it in that context, and I remember that building there. I think it was a couple years later before the Latin American Studies Center started next door.

	G:	So that was the Institute of Black Culture, or just where the Black Student Union met?

	E:	I think it was called the Black Student Union at the beginning, and then it became the Institute of Black Culture. That part, you’d have to get the chronology from someone else. I just remember the vague terms.

	G:	Yes.



E:  And again, I just remember a guy who I used to work with at the Channel 5 Studios, there were a few Black students, but he was actually in Air Force, ROTC. So in that regard, he was mainstream.

	G:	That was all the questions I had prepared, unless there was anything else you wanted to add or talk to me about.

	E:	I was just going to say that I remember, you can go through the slide show, but the number three slide—the people that belong to these organizations, it was very ad hoc. People come and go, it would just be spontaneous. There was slide number three in this thing, “Student Mobilization Committee.” That was for a





nationwide event where people went to Washington D.C. from all over the country to protest the war. This picture, do you have the slides up?

	G:	No. I’ll pull them up again. E:	Okay, sorry about that.

	G:	No, no problem.



	E:	Slide number three—it’s the Student Mobilization Committee. G:	The computer is being a little slow.

	E:	Mmhm.



	G:	Okay, yes.



	E:	Yeah. The Student Mobilization Committee, again, was sort of an ad hoc organization nationwide to go to Washington D.C. and have this big massive, antiwar protest. And so, here the Student Mobilization Committee at the University of Florida, which fall of [19]69, fall of my senior year, beginning of my senior year. There was a woman from one of my education classes that I went out with a few times, and she says “why don’t you come to this,” but this was, it was the homecoming parade, and they couldn’t get a permit to march in the parade as a student organization, so what you see there, and that’s right out in front of Matherly Hall, heading from west to east on University Avenue. When there was a gap between other spots in the parade, there’s like fifty to one hundred students who ran in there with that banner and became part of the parade from downtown. So that’s what that picture is. I think the one I was dating is holding up the peace sign in the front banner there. [Laughter] Anyway, so there were so many come and go ad hoc organizations. That’s pretty much all I





can say, and I invite you to look at the rest of the slideshow. Slide number five, actually, is in one of the yearbooks, which shows the picture of what the march in Washington looked like by the Student Mobilization Committee.

	G:	Great, thank you. Yeah, thank you for these slides, that’s very helpful.



	E:	You know, I think what the yearbook pictures show, as much as the look and feel of what life was like then. I’ll hold you to this, but there’s a picture, number ten, a loyalty oath they were making all the professors, and otherwise employees of the university, to sign loyalty [inaudible 44:17] to the United States. There were some young professors, graduate students, protesting. I have some stuff in there about the draft lottery, all males at the time, had to have a draft deferment or be drafted. That went away during the Vietnam War because it was shown to be unfair to of course lower-socioeconomic people. I mean, being in the college back then, most of the time, you were a full-time student. You didn’t see as much of the people coming and going to community colleges, like they do today. You were pretty much an articulating, degree seeking student. And so, it became a socioeconomic unpopular thing. So anyway, any of that stuff that continued, if you want this yearbook for background history or something, I can give it to you at some point if you like.

	G:	Okay. Also, the yearbook, was it independently run or did an administrator look over before it was published?

	E:	I don’t know if they had a faculty advisor, but there was pretty much, but it was part of the student government funding.

	G:	Okay.





	E:	Yeah. And like I said, I’ve got both copies. But you can find copies of the yearbook, I don’t know the way things are in special collections over there in East Library on the second floor, but all the yearbooks would be there. I’m quite sure because a couple years ago they were there. I have my own copies.

	G:	And the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, I’m sorry, did you speak on that?

	E:	Yes, that was a national organization. That’s the slide that pops up there, number four. I don’t think we had a local organization for that. I brought that up when I gave this presentation to the interns’ class because there is Governor Claude Kirk on the right. There is H. Rap Brown on the left. And the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee started out as a very mixed, early [19]60s integration of Black and White students who were on the Freedom Rides, the bus rides. They, after a change of leadership, started getting more and more radical. I don’t think they ever caused any violence, but they were framing things. that’s H. Rap Brown on the left, who at that time, I can’t think of the year, he came down to a stadium in Jacksonville, Florida to give a rally for local Black people in Jacksonville, and he was a little late, and what happened was that’s Governor Claude Kirk on the right, he heard this was going to happen, and basically, called up the [inaudible 46:34] general of the state of Florida, the head National Guard general and asked him “Are there any Black commissioned officers in the Florida National Guard?” and the guy says “Yes, there is one. A brand-new Second Lieutenant. And he says “Well, I want you to activate him and have him meet me in Jacksonville.” So I forget this guy’s name; there is story about that somewhere





I think [inaudible 46:59] But he, in his life, he moved second lieutenant in uniform under the command and control of the commander Florida National Guard, in this case is the governor. Walked into the stadium, filled with Black people in Jacksonville. H. Rap Brown was like an hour late. He went in there and just started talking on the microphone, and he did this total weird psychology thing and says “Hey, welcome to Florida everybody. Oh you’re local, blah, blah, blah.” And he did that, and H. Rap Brown shows up, and he got really mad. Basically, Kirk photobombed him, and totally defused this rally. And again, you can see this on film, I think, at the Florida History Project that they have in Tallahassee state archives. I just had that in there to talk about because I remember when that happened.

	G:	Okay, thank you. Yeah that was very helpful. E:	Yeah.

	G:	And that was all the questions I had, like I said. But I’ll leave room for you to mention anything else, if you’d like.

	E:	My apologies. Again, I think I said in the email [inaudible 47:22] that my recollections are subjective, but I think pictures say a lot of things, and I think that at least you can get a look and feel. And again, just like we like to say today, nothing is binary. There was a lot of gray areas in all of this stuff. I mean, here I was against the war in Vietnam, and three years out of college, I decided to go into the Air Force, and I made a career out of it. And yet, like politics, wherein and remain liberal. So there is no black and white, there is a lot of gray in there.

	G:	Mmhm. No problem, at all. Thank you though for your help. It was very helpful.





	E:	Glad to help, and just let me know if you need anything else.



	G:	Yes, ill let you know if I have any follow-up things after I go through all of these slides.

	E:	All right.



	G:	Thank you Mr. Ray. Have a good rest of your day. E:	Okay. [Laughter] Don’t call me Mr.

	G:	Okay. [Laughter]





[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Katie Delk, September 10, 2021 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, September 13, 2021 Final edited by:	Sandra Romero, September 14, 2021