AAHP 654A; Lee; Page100







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 654A Monroe Lee 5-11-2019

Interviewed by Ray Washington on May 11, 2019 295 minutes | 198 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Madison, Florida elder Monroe Lee recounts the first half of his life. He begins with recollections of his family history, highlighting his multiethnic lineage, although he primarily identifies as Black. In his earliest memories, Lee worked alongside his family members in the tobacco and cotton fields. In later years, Lee attended public high school, during which he had time to dual enroll and take courses in drafting and architecture at a local community college. Lee then began his career with the Geographic Survey, which took him as far as Hawaii, where he surveyed a volcano. Fearing the surveying job was taking a toll on him, Lee decided to pursue a career in preaching. He married Zulla Lee, and together they had one daughter. Throughout his twenties and thirties, Lee worked a variety of jobs. He briefly worked on a horse ranch in Alachua, Florida, and often took jobs designing churches, schools, and other structures. The interview with participants agreeing to resume the following day.



Keywords: [Madison, Florida, Alachua, family history, geography, architecture, engineering, Black STEM, surveying]



AAHP 654A

Interviewee: Monroe Lee Interviewer: Ray Washington Date: May 11, 2019

	W:	My name is Ray Washington, I’m here on the morning of the 11th of May 2019, with Monroe Lee, and we’re at Pugh Hall. Monroe has agreed to give a little bit of an oral history with the understanding that this will be used by scholars, the public, and anyone who is interested in the topics we will be talking about today. And, on the way over we talked about a particular ordering about some of the things that I was going to ask about with the understanding that we will loop back and maybe about halfway we’ll go out and to get some photographs to bring in to expand on some of the things that we’re talking about. The first part, we have a map here which I will, at the appropriate time, ask you to know where different people in your family lived or you’ve been or worked and so forth. Any things that you want to clarify or are you okay with everything we have talked about so far?

	L:	Right. That’s everything.



	W:	So, Monroe, as a little bit of an intro, you could, if you’d like, explain how you and I—not when we first met, we met when we were children in the melon fields in Hamilton County., But when we first met in the last year, how that came about.

And we won’t get into any of the details yet about the legal matter that I saw you accidentally in the courthouse, how I met you. But if you can give a little background as to that, I’ll start asking questions.

	L:	Well, my recollection of how I came to meet you this time is I was ducked through our life is I was feeling really down at the time that I received a voicemail with the phone that disappeared and I don’t have that telephone anymore. I was pulling into the McDonald’s parking lot in Tallahassee, and several days, had to be several days after my—I caught a kangaroo-style





hearing at the Alachua County where my dogs had been taken from me, all six of them. My birds. And I was just in a state of almost shock, basically, I didn’t know where I was headed. The only thing I knew was I was a man of God still and I always just think of Psalms and what Moses wrote, “Make us glad the day we were afflicted,” that mean is that Job said you can’t look for God every day to be good. As sure as the good come, we got to experience so much evil. So I got the call from you, it said, “It’s Ray Washington.” And I was thinking of Black guys, I was thinking, you’re used to hearing voices and they sound like a Black guy. And I’m thinking about this guy running for politician. And I see a Black guy trying to help me with a dog case? He’s out here at the courthouse down here in Gainesville, and I said, “Yes sir.” He said, “I was in there but I didn’t get a chance to hear everything.” So that’s our first introduction You said, “Are you willing to come down here and help yourself fight for this?” And I used the analogy of, Mr. Washington, during slavery time, Washington was asked that question: would the Black man fight? And Lincoln said, “Yes he’ll fight. If you give him something to fight for and fight with.” Fight for is freedom, fight with is the law and guns. So I said, if this lawyer is gonna help me, I’m gonna go back to Gainesville. So I came back to Gainesville and started sleeping under benches. Here we are fourteen months later, he still trying to help me.

	W:	That’s a pretty good introduction. I don’t know about sleeping on benches. You have a history in Alachua County that goes back to when? When was the first time you lived in Alachua County?





	L:	Well, the first time I lived in Alachua County was 1972, during the Vietnam War. We had a little Krystal’s, a hamburger place there where Target is located now. Somewhere in that vicinity, right across from University [Road]. And my job was to build Interstate 75 from the Georgia line to Miami, which I started out doing. I did Interstate 10 from Jefferson County to Jacksonville, then Saint Mary’s as an eighteen-year-old kid, so now I’m doing [Interstate] 75. So now we going through Payne’s Prairie with [Interstate] 75, and I just remember the snakes, there was a bunch of snakes down there. So I would live in Gainesville or either back up in Lake City, we got so far down I would live in Gainesville. That was the first recollection of Gainesville, me staying. My family has been here for about five hundred years. The Lees in the Cherokees. But my recollections of me being here.

	W:	So, Monroe, in 1972 you were born in 1953, so you were eighteen or nineteen when you first—

	L:	I was eighteen, because I had my birthday coming in October. I was here during the summer of [19]72.

	W:	So, let’s go back not to the beginning with your family, we’ll get to that, but to when you were born. You were born in Madison, Florida. Give us a little background about your father and mother. At the time you were born, how many brothers and sisters you had and how many were born after that?

	L:	It was remarkable in the Black family, for thousands of years I guess because Africa, there’s always some survivors who told what they knew. They got this thing going about the number of children being—which wasn’t going to be wise,





the part of the one to pull it, the rest of the people thought so. My grandaddy happened to be a White guy, Captain Lee from Florence, South Carolina. And from what I understand historians, all this came down to me, I just sit listen at the end of the table and care enough to keep it. Everybody else is just, they wanna do they thing, but I was the one chosen for this extraordinary job, being the family historian. So granddaddy, he had got a—they said bee gout. My uncle Pine, Anderson Lee, died about 1903. So, a couple years later, my dad born. So from what I understand, my granddaddy, Captain Lee, big plantation man, Confederate, before we had the Civil War now, you know, the war was 1865 so we talking forty years later in 1905, they wanted to do still up there. So from what I understand, you got the African Lees, Calvin Lee born 1855, and he is from the African bloodline from what I checked all the way back. Same Sonhei Dynasty, you know, when Africans was coming with the Portuguese, sailing, some of them free. And that stuff is extraordinary. I hope I’m still answering your question.

	W:	Yeah, sure.



	L:	Like I say, I tracked it all the way back. Like I say, he was born in the Lee side. Now, I found out, even in the dungeons of Africa, coming out the dungeons as slaves, there was Blacks playing a part in that all the way through. There was Blacks selling their own people. It was always Blacks. Some people think it’s the White man’s thing. See, so that’s what I’ve learned by having this multiracial background of family. So as I was saying, Captain Lee, he had this pimp up in the plantation, pimp. And he didn’t have women per say as they say—

	W:	Can you describe what you mean by pimp?





	L:	Pimp, a pimp in the earlier days was a person who would tell on they color, they would say. You may not even be colored; it was a pimp who was running their mouth. Until later days, they called it a man who had women under his feet and is using them, having them do all kinds of things to earn him money. But a pimp back then, he lived right among you. And I understand about some of the things that happened with the pimps, the Black pimp. It was a group of Blacks somewhere in the southeast there, maybe Carolina because I read far into several hundred years of Carolina, breeding Blacks, selling them all over the world, all over the country to be slaves. Anyway, Captain Lee, they say he got this pimp watching my grandma, this small, petite lady, a versatile little lady.

	W:	Why don’t you tell us your grandmother’s name?



	L:	Melissa, African for honeybee. African and Greek. That was her name, Melissa Lee.

	W:	Where was she born; do you know?



	L:	All right, she was from the Carolinas, for sure, so I figured around Florence but you just never know, because they was always moving.

	W:	Do you know when she was born?



	L:	Her daddy born 1855, when I add it up, maybe he got her about twenty years later so I figure she probably 1878, because she was about a hundred years old when she died in [19]72. So she born about 1870s.

	W:	Go ahead, I’m sorry.



	L:	As I was saying, so granddad got this report by Old Man Wise, that’s another Confederate up there in Bishop, South Carolina, which is Lee County. He was





coming over to Florence County, which is Florence. And see, what’s so extraordinary about that, both sides of my family—this the Lees I’m talking about now, the Africans that was Lees, coincidentally. And the ones that were Lees had Robert E. Lee’s bloodline. See, you got the African Lees, so the White man, he had to sit out by the Europeans, shall I say the men of power, because some Indians and some Blacks were doing the same things, buying slaves. And marrying them, breeding them. Even Benjamin Banneker, I’m not sidelining I’m just saying how it go, Benjamin Banneker grandmama, a White lady, she bought her a slave, and she married him and got children and Benjamin Banneker’s mama was the daughter off of that same marriage. And so the same guy who designed the Washington D.C., the first clock and all that. Going back to all that, we got threw off, our granddad got this report that Old Man Wise, the Confederate, was spelling around my grandmama. Spelling meant trying to court her, as they say. So granddad, they say, rode up on, as I was saying, now, this made Eloise talk so I just repeating the way they said it—

	W:	You said his name was Ansel Lee? L:	No, my uncle was Anderson Lee.

	W:	Okay, what was your granddaddy’s name? L:	Great grandaddy, Calvin Lee.

	W:	Calvin Lee is Melissa’s father?



	L:	Yeah, born 1855. So he born under Antebellum where they was selling Black men and women. So I’m trying to figure out some time whether he was free, because like I say, there was some free Lees, and that was extraordinary too. I’ll





cover that later on, how the Blacks sometimes treated you worse than the Whites treated you. And I gotta tell you about this [inaudible 10:21] my mom’s life, but that’s later on. Now, folks, as long as I had said, you asked me about my parents and I had started. So, granddaddy rode up on a horse, they say, that’s a horse.

And so they was telling me this growing up, I just hear all this and so I can hear it now. And they said he got off the horse and said—the other Confederate said, “By God, I hear you spelling around Lissie.” That’s Melissa, but that’s what he called her. And so he said, “By God, one of us got to die.” Now a man in his right mind—you know, I think about it now—he ought to have a better system to do it but that’s what he did. He went out and got a pretty case, he opened it up—

	W:	Calvin?



	L:	No, this the Confederate, Captain Lee, the White man. So he brings out the case, now all these Blacks standing around, this is where I get the story from, because we had family members—

	W:	I just want to make sure, I’m sorry to interrupt you but is Calvin Lee and Captain



Lee, they’re both named Lee?



	L:	Yeah, that was what their names—But Calvin Lee was Blacker than me, Blacker than tar, he was African, so, that’s what happened. The Portuguese, you might be with them and your family might be helping them in the slaving trade from African, that’s what it looked like it was. And see, that was something to me. My daddy, even though he was half-White, everybody he talked to, he’d give them their due respect. Every White man he talked to, “Yes sir.” Someone goes, “Why your Daddy say that?” And I asked daddy, he said, “That’s how I was raised, son.





You get further like that, when people see you’re humble, because we don’t have anything.” We didn’t have anything as Blacks from slaves and by him being half- White and half-Black, his African side would tell him wisdom and his White side gave wisdom. That’s where I got mine, from how it’s still alive. You’ll see what I’m gonna tell you, how people still don’t care anything about that. Some people just still gonna go at you. So, anyway, back to what I was telling you, granddaddy, he got this case of pistols out, duel with pistols. Both of them loaded, he don’t know which one the guy gon’ pick.

	W:	That should be in the 1890s when—



	L:	1905. And before they had the Civil War, this is forty years later. Two generations, but they still—they wanna do it, be on the plantation. Red Dough Doe, that’s what I think it was, Red Doe, Florence, South Carolina. And so they backed up to one another, they said, they was supposed to walk off ten steps and they said Grandaddy, he took eight and a half, something like that, by the ninth step he was already turned around. The other Cap turned around the other Captain, lied to the White guy, grandaddy shot him and the gun flooded, he walked up to the ground, walked up to him and looking down on him, see the White man say, “By God, Lee, you didn’t walk ten steps.” So granddaddy say, “You gotta be a fool. You come up on this plantation spinning around my woman, and you expect me give you a chance to kill me?” Bam! Bam! Bam!

Bam! He finished killing him there on the ground, from what I hear now. Now, so what that mean? We had to get out of Carolina, that means the family. Because if you a Black man or Black woman got a White man killed, they allowed to just





burn up the whole family and kill you. So some good White folks, I know they had to be, I don’t know whether it’s Captain, he was a Mason or what, but he did a lot of traveling. And Calvin Lee, he got him out of there and he got him down to West Farm, because you know, we’ve been coming in and out of there for hundreds of years, driving cows down from Carolina to Fort Caroline before it was took over by the Spanish. Fort Caroline was a French settlement there on the Saint John River. So we was driving cattle all the way down there, Black cowboys back in the 1600s and all like that. So anyways, I was saying, on the underground railroad we got down there to Lee, it’s about seven miles from the Suwannee River—

	W:	Was the town in Lee or Madison County? L:	It was West Farm, then, they called it.

	W:	It was called West Farm, all right.



	L:	But it became Lee. And from what I understand, I was working for OK Duke, a dog kennel, back in 1977. And I was paint and restoration man for the house and the kennels. And they said—

	W:	In Lee?



	L:	Yeah. And they say, “Hey, you wanna go in there and see the cabin?” I say, “What cabin?” “The cabin your cousin stayed in.” I said, “Who?” “Robert E. Lee!” Said, he was here during the Battle of Valdosta. I said, “What?” I kind of had a little sketch of it. So he was hiding out there during the Battle of Valdosta. And them Confederate boys from all over the region, all the way as far as from Gadsden County, came from here to march. And they went over to Lester where





they had that battle and saw one of them Black guys was in the battle, too. Like, the Cooks and all that.

	W:	So, Monroe, just to be clear, this is what a man told you? You don’t know it for a fact but a White man told you that Robert E. Lee was staying in that shack, is that right?

	L:	Yeah, the people that own OK Duke. They own it, they bought the whole land? W:	But you heard that from him?

	L:	From them, them, the people that— W:	That’s how you know that.

	L:	Yeah, I wasn’t there quite until after. Okay, so following what I was saying, a lot of Blacks, they owned all that land in there, West Farm. But it’s like my great grandmama Annie May Williams, Blacks will own land through working hard or whatever, they might have a weak link in they family that likes to drink or chase women or whatever, and he will go through that money like hotcakes, run off in the streets and lost the money and the White people loan him money and then trick ‘em on paying it, and you end up with no land. That’s what we ended up not being—But anyway, that became Lee or the town of West Farm, there.

	W:	Do you know when the town changed its name?



	L:	I guess about that same time, as Lee came down. Right after that about 1905. W:	So that was your father, how he came to Florida. What about your mother?

	L:	My mom, that’s the side that goes way, way back. Like I said, they got the history on it, we descended, from my momma’s side, from the Withlacoochee tribe.

That was a tribe of Africans and Indians living together there throughout the





Southeast. We farmed, from what I understand, from Cook County, southern part of Georgia, all the way over to where she was talking about Saint Simon Island, all the way back down, Brunswick, and back down around Jacksonville. And it was a plantation something, it was a barber, a borough plantation there outside of Jacksonville. But anyway, after a couple years now but I kind of sketched a little bit of it. Up in Carolina, you go Myrtles. Myrtle Beach, that’s where the beach out, just like down in there you got the beach there where all the tourists come. They wanna be around that water, right? But when they first tear up the fence, and somebody was attacking it from 1500, you got those Africans that’ll come in from Florida and defend in the interior. And then you got Lee County back in there with all the farms where all the plantations was, back in there.

Florence had a lot of plantations. But Myrtle Beach was more like tourist resort, but that first tier of African defense was there from the Lees. Now, down on mama’s side, we come out of a—Because Fort Williams, you think about Fort Williams, there was a White guy named William and he had a fort somewhere between Jacksonville and Saint John County, because from what I understand, I read it too, during the time, Menendez, that’s a Spanish conquistador, attacked Fort Carolina. He came in , his ships came out up in the Atlantic Ocean right off of Jacksonville, Saint John. Saint John River in the mouth there, that’s where Fort Carolina was. So what happened, when get got there, he saw Laudneirre’s ships.

	W:	What kind of ships?



	L:	Laudneirre, that’s the French guy.





	W:	Ah, Laudneirre, okay.



	L:	Yeah, you’re a speech guy. So, Menendez, he wouldn’t attack head-on. He sent ‘em back out to see and went on down to Saint John County, which is Saint Augustine, and they say he put the whippings in the Indian house, not tent. I got the literature, I got it in the truck. They put the weapons in there, and they say the Negro gangs was digging the trenches, so the Blacks was right there with them, their den, that’s 1565 and I’m sure that’s where my ancestors came from.

	W:	So you’ve heard these stories from your grandmother, Annie May Williams?



	L:	It’s passed down through the bloodline. I went to the courthouse and got the record up.

	W:	So let’s start with Annie May Williams. You knew her, correct?



L:  Well, family knew her. That’s my mama’s grandmama. I don’t know her. W:  Okay, when did she die?

L:  She died many years before I was born, evidently. Grandpa mama, she died way before I was born, because see grandpa was living, that’s her son who was born probably about 1860s, I figure.

W:   What was his name?



	L:	Oscar. Annie May Williams was Oscar McDaniel’s mama. W:	Oscar McDaniel was—

	L:	My great granddaddy, my granddaddy’s daddy. W:	Now, you didn’t know him either?

	L:	He died about the time I was born. W:	Okay, you never met him?





	L:	No, I never met him.



	W:	Okay, and who was Oscar McDaniel’s—



	L:	That’s my mama’s granddaddy, Bossie McDaniel is my granddaddy, my mama’s daddy.

	W:	Boyd?



	L:	Bossie. John Bossie, John. John was his first name, Bossie was his middle name.

	W:	How do you spell that? L:	B-o-s-s-i-e

	W:	Okay, and do you know when he was born?



	L:	He should’ve been—his mom born 1820, he had to be twenty, he probably about 1890-ish, something like that.

	W:	You did know him?



	L:	Yeah, he died in [19]72/



	W:	Okay, let’s talk about him a little bit. So, where was he living when he was born?



John Bossie?



	L:	John Bossie, he was born in Madison County, because like I say, you know, that’s after—see, Fort Williams, that’s 1500s, the Williams bloodline, that’s where I was, by that point, telling you. We extended from the Williams bloodline. Annie May Williams come out from the Williams, that’s why so many Williams here in the phone book, because this White guy, Williams, at the time he was an Englishman, he had this Fort on the Atlantic Ocean where all these Williams were bred from. So he was selling Williams slaves, bringing all of them out to





Texas, so you got Williams everywhere. He would sell these literate Africans everywhere. So Annie May, my great, great grandmama, which is my great grandaddy’s mama, Oscar McDaniel, his daddy was a McDaniel,. That’s French, you know. So anyway, they, after he… He come in, Oscar, that’s what started our bloodline. So Oscar McDaniel, which his great granddaddy, he married Big Ani, Big Ani was Seminole, African, Indian, probably from the 1500s, that’s what I was telling you. But see, she was coming out from the council. They hired councils, that’s their name, councils. So Big Ani married grandpa, so Big Ani was married, she didn’t have any children. But she had two nieces, one named Marie, That’s my auntie, and my grandmama’s name, Martha. Martha and Marie, those her two nieces. So then, what she did—She, some people say, turned her stepson, which was Bossie, and Oscar on to her nieces. See, they wasn’t kin, because that was her husband’s children, them her stepchildren. So that’s why we double kin to the crew in Tampa, to Oscar, and William married, Marie and Martha, two cousins, so we double kin to the crew in Tampa.

	W:	Which is John Bossie’s mother, what’s her name? L:	She said it was Mary, I never met her.

W:  And so Oscar was married to Mary, and it was Mary’s family that you’re saying goes back to the Indians who were there at Fort Williams, that was that side of your family, correct?

L:   Yeah, the Williams.





	W:	And you don’t know anything about Oscar McDaniel, where his family is, you don’t know anything about it.

	L:	No, he come up married. But I know there are a lot of McDaniel’s there in Madison, but I don’t know per say, I didn’t get that.

	W:	So John Bossie, born. In the 1890s, who was his wife or the mother of your mother?

	L:	That’s what I tell you, her name was Martha. Martha Bryant. W:	Then I misspoke, who was Oscar McDaniel married to?

	L:	Oscar McDaniel, it seemed like Rossie, because see what happened was she had died by the time Big Ani come in the picture. See what I’m saying, so Big Ani was my natural auntie through my mom. But on my mom’s moms side, but then you got her dad’s side, which you were asking about there, which I don’t know. I just know he come in there, Oscar McDaniel. But you take, if his mama, I do know that that’s a given. Annie May Williams born 1846. It’s right after the Spanish had gave it up.

	W:	Annie May Williams is John Bossie’s mother? L:	Yeah.

	W:	Okay, got it.



	L:	So there you go.



	W:	So your family is living in Madison from at least 1860, probably before, correct?



	L:	Yeah, on my mama side. But the Lees was coming down but they weren’t staying, per say.







W:

I understand. And you said that you have Indian blood, but that’s from your



mother’s side. And you have White blood, or your [inaudible 24:19] blood from



your father’s side, I understand.

L:

Exactly right.

W:

And so in 1905, you’re—

L:

Captain Lee gets my daddy, Ola.

W:

What was your dad’s name?

L:

Ola, O-L-A. Ola Lee.

W:

And they called him Punch?

L:

Punchy, like red, because he’s red, the color of punch.

W:

Okay, so Ola, born in 1905, married to your mother—

L:

Corine.

W:

And she was—

L:

Cherokee and African.

W:

But she was McDaniel.

L:

Yeah, Bossie and McDaniel daughter.

W:

When was she born?

L:

Madison.

W:

When was she born?

L:

1921, November 17th.

W:

No, Corine.

L:

I said it, November 17, 1921. I know it by heart.

W:

You said 1921?





	L:	Yeah.



	W:	Okay, I misunderstood. November 17, 1921. All right, so we’re getting back to the present. So when did Ola and…?

	L:	My mom get together?



	W:	When did they get together?



	L:	I can tell you exactly. My mom was about eighteen, nineteen years old. She goes to Tampa where her uncle is at, that’s her daddy’s brother, which is Will McDaniel. And what’s extraordinary about them—since we’re talking about them—it’s amazing. My family been a part and been in Florida for forever, so I don’t know why people try to nag them as much as they do. But anyway, my mom stayed with all these sons, this and that, this uncle. Harvey—Uncle Harvey, he took her with—he had to be with the Flagler side, he brought the Flagler side of the railroad down, actually building the crossties and all like that, cutting crossties. And my granddaddy, Bossie, he took to the plant side building railroads. And they tell me, they say, he hitchhiked, you know, like hobos on the train tracks, sleeping on the railroad tracks for they pillow. And they say sometimes he’d go to some good White folks house and they’ll give him something to eat, give him a plate of food. And they went through it, they would go and try to find a better place for him to live and so my uncle, he end up going to Tampa, Uncle Will. So my mom, she moves down there at nineteen years old.

	W:	She moved to where, Monroe?



	L:	To Tampa where her uncle is at, which is my great uncle, Will McDaniel.





	W:	Okay. So just to make sure, Will McDaniel is working on the plant railroad and his brother Harvey is working on the Flagler railroad.

	L:	Yeah.



	W:	Okay, go ahead, sorry.



	L:	So okay, my mom comes down and she meets this Cleo Pullin Senior. That’s my oldest brother, Danny, he’s like me, a bridge man. He get out there and try to make him some money, so he got to Plant City, strawberry capital there right outside of Tampa. That’s where his hometown was, from what I understand, then.

	W:	Your mother was born around 1912 and this has been around 1940, just before World War II started for us—

	L:	1940, because he’s born in November, my brother did. His daddy was dead, died a few months before he was born.

	W:	Cleo, too?



	L:	Cleo Senior. Cleo Junior is my brother. W:	And he’s still living?

	L:	Right.



	W:	And he lives in Brighton? L:	Del Ray Beach.

	W:	Right. And he’s your half-brother.



	L:	Right, because it’s my mama’s first husband, yeah. So my mom said—and that’s what I say saved my life, that’s why I’m here today. Because just like I said, you got these folklores about family history, the member [inaudible 27:56] that’s





where I was at just now, they had said that I was supposed to be the one, even though I couldn’t be the one, it’s behind my back. Because some brothers and sisters hid things like that, they get envious of you and then by me being dark, my brothers and sisters don’t wanna take it that I’m the one God picked to be an architect, an engineer. Because everyone just thought by me being dark I was less.

	W:	Before we get to that, you were born in 1953, Cleo was born in 1940, so when did your mother and your father get together?

	L:	Oh yeah, I was right at that. Yeah. As I said, that’s where I was telling you about seeing things and discerning things, that’s why I brought that in there. They said in my development phase that I would know certain things spiritually. As my mom said, and I say telling the story, that Cleo, he kept hearing death bells right before he died.

	W:	Cleo Senior?



	L:	Yeah, and I was trying to figure out, when I hear death bells, can I avoid it? From a little kid, growing up now. So listen like that, so after I had dodged preaching for three years, I came from Hawaii, that’s when they first called me administrator and I told God—

	W:	We’re gonna get to that.



	L:	I couldn’t do it. But anyway, what I’m saying is after I had got out of the government—

	W:	Let’s go back to your mother getting together with your father.





	L:	Yeah, that’s where I’m at, that’s why I wanted to cover that. I’m gon’ get there. My mom—I need to put that in—was sitting on the porch fiddling her thumbs December of 1978, and dodging preaching, that’s why I brought that in. So, I looked at her, I knew she was troubled. And was telling me to come back to keep those bridges.

	W:	You’re telling me this is how you found out why she got together with your father?



	L:	No, what saved my life. That’s why I put the point in there, Cleo was hearing death bells. That’s why I’m gonna tell you the story about my mom and how they got together. Cleo was hearing death bells, you remember, and I’m telling you now, she saw that I was hearing death bells and I was fixing to die, I know I was.

	W:	This was in 1978?



	L:	Yeah. Dodging preaching, God was gonna leave me go ahead on like I was saying. I told you, I found a job, government, I wasn’t gonna preach. I was gonna keep this good government job, I just didn’t see myself preaching. So anyway, mom was sitting on the porch fiddling her thumbs—

	W:	She’s in Madison.



	L:	Yeah. And my nickname Tommy, it wasn’t my real name. And she said, “Tommy! It’s that job!” That’s all she said, that’s why I knew she was trouble. So I thought, “You’re going to your death.” And there I saw it, as plain as day, you go back to that job, you gon’ be dead within a week’s time. And I would’ve been, but I’m sitting here now. But now, as I said, Cleo was hearing the death bells, that’s why I got off on a tangent. So, mom said he went to work that day and something





happened, they set him up, a weak plank, somehow while building that bridge, he died. Bridge collapsed.

	W:	Down in Hillsborough County then?



	L:	Somewhere down in Miami, about the same place. That may have been the Key West Bridge. I don’t know, it was in the south Florida area around Miami, my mama said. So they made his funeral and my grandmama came down from Madison, the Cherokee. They shared a drink and things, she liked to drink. Had a good business head and she had a green thumb from the Cherokee side, from her great grandaddy being plantation owners.

	W:	Remind me her name again?



	L:	Martha McDaniel. So she comes down and says, “Corine, why don’t you come back up here?” And they gave my mama forty thousand dollars. It may have been forty thousand dollars in 1940, that was like a million dollars now. So grandma would convince her, my mom said, to go back to Madison and—

	W:	Where did they get the forty thousand dollars from? L:	For Cleo’s death.

	W:	Life insurance?



	L:	He had some good insurance, some kind of way. So they told him that the White folks be gardenia, but it’s a guarding over your money. So my mom said the White folks was guarding over the money and they’re still sharecropping with them, you know. Because they need their labor, their know-how, to keep this cotton growing. Because they knew my family from the Cherokees, know how to do this for hundreds of years. And you know, we was on this farm sharecropping.





So my mom said those people, they got all this money, so they find out Tee McCarty wanted to buy an A Model or something like that in the [19]40s, and back in [19]39, [19]35, and they want a thousand dollars for it. Mom said she went to the white people and said, “Mrs. Henderson—” or whatever their name— “We need a thousand dollars.” Say, “What y’all need a thousand dollars for?” I guess my mom said because I’m remarking the way she said it, “Well, what y’all want with that thousand dollars? We want a car,” being humble, you know. “We want to buy—” “y’all don’t need no thousand dollars, you tell those people you gonna give ‘em a hundred down, take the hundred and give ‘em a hundred.” And telling ‘em you’d pay them so much a week or a month on that car.

	W:	Do you remember the White people that told her that, their names?



	L:	It seemed like she said Henderson. I know some Henderson’s out there, but [inaudible 33:05] prominent with me, what she said. She wasn’t just kidding to ‘em. And mom say, “They know that forty thousand dollars,” they put a zero on top of a hundred dollars but still end up being—now going forward, in third grade, they must’ve input the right, I’m just figuring, I don’t know, I wasn’t even born then. And mom said they went to the general store, I know the lady good who did it, Eva Holter and her sister Lucille Holter. Well, Eva was a Holter, Lucille was a—

	W:	The general store in Madison?



	L:	Yeah, it was a general store then. There was a pretty little White blonde-headed girl in there, you know, you can bet she was pretty back there because mom was telling me about that. And she said they looked at the check and they got word to





the White folks that said, “Yeah you got these Blacks up here with the check, they done altered it.” Mom said they was running it all, the police come in there, and White folks—just more White folks coming up there to Madison to the store. And said, “Y’all go on back out there to work. We’ll take care of this for y’all. We’ll get y’all a lawyer.” Now, [inaudible 34:03] but that’s what they did. And that’s why the Blacks have so little today, I know, that’s what I’ve figured out when we be traveling the world. So mom said they takes the—and go on back to work, and she said in a month’s time, they had no money. They had zero, they counted it out, “Y’all don’t have no money left, all the legal fees.” And I don’t remember nothing but the White lady, she said name was Agnes, because she tell the story about the—

	W:	Now I know you’re gonna get back to how your mother and father met, I know you’re getting there.

	L:	[Laughter] Yes, you said you’d do that. That’s where I was at though. So anyway, you hear what’s happening so they scaled him up, took all the money. And that’s where I was at, I was there. My mom went back to plowing mules, because they said ladies used to plow mules, I mean, grate corn, crop the – anything that needs did on the farm, mama did it. She was tough, Black Cherokee. And they say my dad was half-White, he was married to this lady named Rose. She was a redbone, that mean she had White in her family, evidently, because I know they kept ‘em together, two redbones supposed to have pretty children. Two-sided White blood. And they said the pretty kid, but a girl, and something happened to the kid, died. So he drifted apart and split apart. But due to the fact that they were





working out there on a tobacco farm, that’s really how they used mules—You saw pictures the mules they had out there on the farm and all these Blacks from slavery times, then they come down from Carolina, people would bring they slaves in to work on that farm. So anyway, they on the farm and they say daddy saw my mama plowing a mule, that’s the story they tell, and so dad said, “I’ve got to have her.” And so he knock off and go way out there in the country and my mom said sometimes they’d be so raggedy, the White guys would get in the cemetery we had to pass by with White sheets over their head and scare, running through the woods, man, that’s a shame.

	W:	How far from Madison was she working in the fields?



	L:	Oh, you know, she lived in the country. See, with the field, you could be Hanson, Pinetta, all that suburb.

	W:	Pinetta’s north of Madison by how far?



	L:	Ten miles exactly, that’s where the Indians were at anyway. From all that, southeast for hundreds of years. But we still got sharecroppers, the people had to pay a price—

	W:	So this is sometime during World War II, the war is going on? Is that when your parents met?

	L:	Before the World War started, about the same time, [19]41, because my brother born [19]42.

	W:	Which brother?



	L:	Ola Lee, that’s the first one he got. See, Cleo born, he was in my mom’s stomach, his daddy died. So by the time he born, my daddy saw my mom





plowing the mule like I was just telling you and he start going to see her on the farm out there.

	W:	So you got a half-brother named Cleo Pullins who was born from your mother.



You’ve got a half-brother who was born in [19]40, you got a half-brother named—



L:  Not my half-brother, that’s the first Lee. Do you remember? Cleo was the only one my momma had in her stomach when his daddy got killed. So now Cleo’s daddy dead and my momma now—

	W:	So your father didn’t have any children with his first wife? L:	She died; you remember I tell you about the little pretty girl. W:	But he never had any children with her?

	L:	He had one girl that died.



	W:	Oh, got you. I didn’t catch that.



	L:	Okay so do you want me to continue where I was at?



	W:	Sure. So at that point in 1942, you’re not born yet, there’s a half-brother and a full-brother?

	L:	That’s the first one, Ola Lee. Because I was gonna tell you, my granddad, Captain Lee, had already told my grandma to name his part-grandchildren which was gonna be born. He told grandmama that my daddy could name the first one after him, Ola Lee. And he told her the second one would be named James, which was James Monroe was his cousin, was supposed to have been the fifth president. And I look at that thing—James Madison, and I don’t know if he been kin to both of them with all those cats back in the first presidency, all of them was kin or tied in some kind of way, because very few people was here. But anyway,





before this he told her to name the next one James. After my daddy name one after him, then the next one would be Monroe, and that would be me.

	W:	Okay, who is the next brother born after Ola Lee? L:	James.

	W:	What year was James born?



	L:	I can’t tell you exactly, after maybe two years. So Cleo born in 1940, Ola born in 1942, and the next one was born 1944, something like that, because they two years apart. [19]44, then [19]46, break it all down. Okay, so dad, they decide they would get married, he already got them at that point, they’re at James. But here I am on the verge of being born, so they know that I’m this—

	W:	Before you get to that, were there any other brothers or sisters born between James and you?

	L:	No. We had some more sisters. W:	Tell me who they were.

	L:	Okay, after James then my mama say, back in them days this was then they would scrub the floor on their knees, she had a daughter named Corine, named after her. She lived—must’ve been about a month. And I asked my mom what happened to her, she say, I lost her because they worked me so hard back then. The White folks would make you actually get on your knees and scrub the floor section by section with a brush, and that’s what she was doing up until she had that baby.

	W:	You got a better memory than almost anybody I know, so I’m not gonna hold you to this, but do you know approximately when Corine, the baby, was born?





	L:	Like I told you, if one born [19]42 the next was born [19]44, so she had them about [19]46.

	W:	What was the name of the child born in [19]44?



	L:	That’d have been—See, Cleo was [19]40, Ola was [19]42, James was [19]44.



	W:	That was my bad. Okay, Corine [19]46, and then you had another sister before you were born?

	L:	And then Runette, Runette would be next. She was alive for twenty-seven years.

	W:	So what year was Runette born?



	L:	Two years after [19]44, would be [19]46. W:	But Corine was born in [19]46, you said.

	L:	Okay, well that would be [19]44 then. Just go down two years, every one I know, you go two years down.

	W:	You said Ola was born in [19]42, James was born in [19]44, Corine was born in [19]46, when was Runnette born?

	L:	[19]48.



	W:	And you said she lived for twenty-seven years? L:	Yeah.

	W:	Did she die about 1975? L:	Yeah.

	W:	Okay. I’m sorry, go ahead.



	L:	Yeah, and then Bobby Jean was next to Runette. Bobby Jean. W:	And so what year was she born?





L:  Two years down. W:  Okay, [19]50?

L:  You can just follow it. Yeah. W:  Okay, and is she still living? L:  Yeah.

W:  Okay, where does she live? L:  Madison.

W:   Okay. Go ahead.



	L:	I’m gonna make one adjustment, back up a little bit, because I know that Elouise born in [19]51 but that could be right. Probably about [19]49, because I don’t miss it by too much. Because the months sometimes would lapse, it would go a little further than two years. So you see, Bobby—

	W:	Bobby Jean [19]49 and Runette in [19]51. L:	Elouise.

	W:	Elouise was born in [19]51, sorry. L:	And then I’m [19]53.

	W:	And is Elouise still alive? L:	Yes.

W:  And also living in Madison? L:  Right.

W:  Okay, and you were born in [19]53. Now I know you wanna tell a story about how you came out and what happened with your father and mother, so let’s talk about that, when you were born.





	L:	Well, as I was telling you, out of all them girls born, then they were looking for that boy, that one to be. And then that number, if he gon’ be a boy he’d be seven or eight. So my mom said when I asked my brother Cleo, he said he was about thirteen, because he had to be about thirteen, twelve, and he said Mr. Woodson, Daniel, who I ended up sending coons to later on before he died, racoon eyes.

He had some cows in the area and one of the cows broke out. He had long horns, from what I understand. And my mom was seven months pregnant, she was running so fast, getting in the house, getting away from that cow, she broke the steps down, broke her leg in two different places.

	W:	This is 1953? L:	Mmhmm.

	W:	Okay.



	L:	And she was seven months pregnant, probably about September, august. And the leg broke in two different places. Mr. Hoover Johnson took her to the hospital—

	W:	She was running because she was going into labor? Why was she running? L:	From the cow.

	W:	Oh, I’m sorry. Monroe, you’re talking clearly but I’m losing thinking.



	L:	Yeah, the cow broke out so she saw the cow and just started running so fast because she got a baby in her stomach. That cow got out, could kill me and her, a cow with horns. They say that now, the devil would have got me then, in the womb. So anyway, she breaks her leg in two different places, they put a cast on





it, bring her back home, and her leg is wired to the ceiling of the house. Her leg is wired to the ceiling, she said, the last two months of her pregnancy.

	W:	So she couldn’t work for two months before you were born?



	L:	Right, couldn’t get out of bed. Used a bedpan for her, from what I understand. And so Mrs. Mary Proud, that’s the midwife, she came to deliver me. And they say when I was born—I didn’t know this until I was starting the ministry, I was twenty-five, my grandma told me. Like I say, she like to drink her beer hot, you give her a cold one she’ll throw it back at you. You know, she definitely wanted to get up at four in the morning to back the car and all that. I’m preaching now, in 1979, forty years ago. “Boy come here,” she got her house and I bought the house across from her. “I think I can’t talk to you, you supposed to be a preacher now,” I said, “What’s that mama?” She said, “Come up on this porch let me tell you something about you.” I did and she said, “Boy let me tell you, your mama, she broke her leg seven months pregnant with you and had that cast on her leg and it was really for you to come celebrate, your daddy to celebrate your birthday. This could be one, you’re gonna be the one, you’re gonna be in— You’re born with a veil over your face and you’re like a White baby, but you had Black on the top of your ears and the tip of your nose. And that midwife say, “He look like a White one now, he gon’ be Black when he grow up.” Your daddy say, “What? He gon’ be Black? My wife must’ve been cheating on me. If he gon’ be Black I’m get to bust [inaudible 44:49] out right now.” Yeah, she told me that.

	W:	You’re saying that your dad expected you to be White?





	L:	No, they told him I was gonna grow up and be Black. So he figured if that’s true, then possibly my wife would be cheating on me if I was gonna be Black, even though I looked like a White baby then.

	W:	But he thought because of his being half-White that—



	L:	Yeah, and then too, he’s thinking of finishing his cousin’s name out: James Monroe. And this Black son coming up here? You know.

	W:	Well, Monroe this is an important thing that it’s something people don’t pay a lot of attention to. Your parents are paying close attention to the skin color of all these children so how would you describe Ola Lee’s skin color? How would you describe that?

	L:	A little darker than you but sometimes he’ll look like you— W:	Looked somewhat White?

	L:	Yeah. But he was tanner, his face would be tanner than his clothes. His clothes would look like a White man, and he said, “Damn you look like a White man with these clothes brother, you like an Indian.”

	W:	What about James?



	L:	James, he’s a little tanner, yeah. But you know, pretty hair, nice head. All the women used to be crazy about him.

	W:	What about Corine?



	L:	Corine? I never seen—



	W:	You never knew her, okay, no one told you about her. What about Runette?



	L:	Runette was Brown. We all from like—James now, you didn’t let me tell you about it but now I’ll tell you about it. My mom was saying she was breastfeeding





him in the [19]40s, she’s darker than me, back in those days they’d put a cloth diaper over the breast and the little baby would be up under there. And they could see she Black, and they see a little baby look like a little White baby, and she heard them whispering, “Oh, she made for a White man.” She could hear them whisper that. So she said she kept on, my daddy—

	W:	Did they think she was a wet nurse or she just had a child—



	L:	She had a baby with a White man, they said. That’s what she said they saying, whispering about her. After a while my dad walk up, and everybody know him because he worked for the city, and she said they started laughing. “Oh, that’s Punchy is why!” [Laughter] They know he was half-White and they started laughing. And that’s the difference there, having one look like a White one and this is gonna look like a White one but he gon’ be Black when he grow up.

	W:	What about Bobby Jean? I’m going down the list. What was she like, do you know?

	L:	Bobby was Brown, she is still Brown, brown-skinned. W:	And Elouise?

	L:	Elouise is about like me, she’s about dark as me but a little shader.



	W:	So Monroe, why then if you had siblings who were dark-skinned and some who were light-skinned, why did your father expected you to be White-skinned?

	L:	The deal is, like I say, I’m finishing that famous James Monroe, the name, and then I’m supposed to be the one that’s gonna have the wisdom, too.





	W:	Okay, so he thought that because you—and I’m just trying to understand—he thought that because you were supposed to be the one that you would be light- skinned?

	L:	Hopefully yeah and then look more like the Lees that White, a little closer to the Whites.

	W:	And you’re saying they named you Monroe after James Monroe?



	L:	Yeah, that was what she had told me. See, and then my momma named me Tommy, from what I understand. My grandma said, “Oh no, It’s gonna be Monroe.” And then I got to school, I didn’t like that, I wanted to be Tommy. Well, I thought how famous it was, and I kind of started—it grew on to me then.

	W:	Interesting, Monroe. So James, they decided James wasn’t gonna be the one, right?

	L:	Well he wasn’t gonna be the one. He’s the first part of the name of the James. W:	Why did they decide—

	L:	See, he wasn’t the number. W:	Okay.

	L:	It had to be the number, the seventh child.



	W:	I understand, okay, and so your father was convinced that you were going to be the one and because of that he was expecting you to be lighter-skinned and because you were darker-skinned he got mad?

	L:	At that time, he got over it.



	W:	I just had to catch up with you, you’re faster than I am. So what happened then?





	L:	She telling me, the Cherokee Indian telling me the story because I didn’t know.



And she said, “Man, boy got wind of it.” That mean they heard about it. “We rushed over there and got you, because your mother was looking for you. She looked wise at the ceiling; she can’t join the fight for you.” And they come and got me, took me home, and they told me, “Your daddy got sober the next day, he walked over here and got you over here.” She was talking about him. “And got you and took you back home in his arms so all the White people could look at his little baby and look at I’m the one that stuck by him.” Stuck to the death, all the rest of his years. Elouise, she had Red babies. She had a dark-skinned husband, he was almost darker than me, and all of them is too. They had Red children.

Some of them are a little darker than the other ones but yeah, it’s amazing, the kids lighter than them. Because the recessive gene, you know, the gene is in there.

	W:	So Monroe, we’re gonna get to your life which is as fast-fading or more than the rest of this, but I’m trying to understand, so you had how many more siblings after you were born?

	L:	There were thirteen in all. It’s a count, five more after m.



	W;	Okay, so let’s go through those really quickly. Who are those other five were or are?

	L:	And that’s where I say I gotta remember from two years old. From two years old, that was in November of 1955, I was two years old and I remember my mama had my sister, I ain’t see her birthing her but I saw her changing her at the fireplace and they had a one-room shack kind of across [inaudible 50:18] and





she had her to the fireplace bathing. I would be standing there, I could see that now, and I see her changing this baby, putting diapers on this baby. And that was my sister Maybelline.

	W:	Maybelline.



	L:	Maybelline like the hair liner. W:	Yeah.

	L:	She ain’t got no I’s, it’s E’s.



	W:	When did she—she’s not with us anymore? L:	She died a couple years back.

	W:	Approximately when?



	L:	Two years back would be—I guess it was three years back, so that would be 2015.

	W:	All right, and who is your next sibling after Maybelline?



	L:	That’s another catch there, this would be—this is the name year we moved, 1958, it snowed in Madison and we moved back January 1958 while it was snowing to Lee Street—they eventually named that street Lee Street after we moved from [inaudible 51:03-51:06]. Now, about six, five months into the move, my mom had her first baby in the hospital because all the rest of us was born at home, they called it midwifery. Okay, now this is 1958, Alton, he’s another one that look almost White. So mama was at the hospital, had him, Mr. Mars brought her home from the hospital. As soon as that happened and they brought her in the house the word spread, “Mrs. Corine got a new baby,” and all the neighbor girls, I remember this vividly, they was my friends all before this and they was





crazy about me. And they run to the house that evening, “We come to see the baby.” Oh Black you, you get back! And I said woah! I was a kid, yet I remember that. They wanted to see the baby, the baby with the pretty hair, little Red baby.

	W:	So Monroe you’re four years old, almost five, and you remember that.



	L:	Yeah, that’s when I first realized this color thing. It’s something else here. And they went to see that pretty baby, they said, they didn’t rush up to see me or James. “We wanna see the baby, we wanna see the baby.”

	W:	Now does Alton get darker?



	L:	Not really, he look almost white. W:	Even now?

	L:	Yeah but I mean he’s fifty-something years old now, that’s the one got the drug problem.

	W:	Right, but he was lighter skinned than you is what you’re saying. Okay sorry and then who after Alton?

	L:	Okay and then after Alton would be Nancy Ann Lee. She born in 1960, April, that’s the one I played hooky that day she was born. Only you’d be spending that—

	W:	Go ahead.



	L:	All that, and then I told you about how it was pretty good at guessing things and doing things. My mom had this blue car court all through the Christmas holidays, Thanksgiving, so come about April, she went to the hospital. So that morning, my Cherokee grandma, she takes over because her daughter went and had that baby. So she said, “Mama going to have this baby, you make these children get





ready and go to school like they supposed to.” So mama come on over there and she got that big fieldhand voice, “Tommy, get out of here and go to school, boy.” That’s my nickname, Tommy. Mama wouldn’t name me that. I said, “Mom, I ain’t got no lunch money.” I took a nickel a day, or ten cents a day I got. But I ain’t have it that day and I didn’t like that, going to school without my lunch money.

She said, “Boy get out of here and go on I got to go. You got a chance to go to school, I had to work!” And so I still didn’t go, I walked on out walking real slow, and this girl they called her Tianna but she’s Cynthia Johnson, she’s going to the Suwannee River College, it’s a Black college then in Madison called Suwannee River College. And our Black school was right next to it, Madison County Trade School. So I walk around that years later, very slow, and we got in the alley they call it, that’s with trees, oaks, and canopy, it goes about a quarter of a mile through the wooded area, kids go to school. And I got to that hog pen, they got a shoot where you load the hogs on at an angle, thirty-degree angle, onto this truck. So I see nobody was looking, I ducked up under there and laid down and put my bookbags under my head for a pillow. So as soon as it warmed up—it was kind of cool because April—and I come out and go to some kid’s house who never went to school.

	W:	Were you in first grade or second grade, Monroe?



	L:	I was in about second, I was only six years old and I was born [19]53 so it’s [19]60. I’m not seven yet, I’m going on seven. So we shoot marbles, I know what time after watching the sun, it’s about time to get out of school now so I hid back down in the alley where I had my bookbag hid at, and the only way out my yard, I





can see it now, green knife, butterknife, laying there. Not too sharp, but it’s got a little green handle on it. I pick it up, I was about to hide it out in the road, I take it back with me, I get back and lay up under the hog shoot again. And kids, you could hear them coming from school, it’s a noisy crowd. By the time that crowd started coming here, I jumped in the middle like I’d been to school. It’s TC Hill and Larry, here. “Ha-ha, mockingbird.” I had found a mockingbird some years back, or maybe the same year, put it in my lunchbox in class because it had a broken wing and I know a bird is gonna—a cat is gonna eat it. So I went to save the bird, so I had it in that lunchbox and the bird start singing. Mrs. Betty was sitting there reading the bell at me, talking Spanish, she looking around, stopped right at my desk. “What’s that in that box there, Monroe.” “A bird.” “Get that bird out of here and turn it loose.” And they called me mockingbird. “Mockingbird, you skipped class today!” I said, “No I didn’t, I did come to school.” I don’t know how to tell a lie because they were in my class, you know. He wasn’t teaching. So I took out that knife I started running that crew, bust ‘em, as they call it. They running, so they made it around the corner to—God bless the dead, Tim Gabler’s house—and they made another corner, I know they was too close to they house to get me the run them in the house. So I went on home, but I was very scared. Now, I know I’m in trouble now.

	W:	Scared they’re gonna tell your—



	L:	That I skipped school and ran ‘em with a knife. [Laughter] I can’t be nothing but trouble. So I’m pretty shook up but I go home and try to get the best out of it. So Mrs. Mutt came in about twenty minutes later, she comes in a 1953 Chevrolet





car, I can remember. She got little boys in each one of her hands, she’s a tall Black lady, she got a dress, tail fan. and go on in there to my grandmama’s house. She went in there about thirty minutes, twenty minutes. She come back out. I can see her now. They left, wow, fifty-nine years ago. She left and my grandma come in the porch. Like I say, she’s a field walking Cherokee. She put her hand up on the bannister of the porch, “TOMMY! Come here boy!” And that’s something I don’t wanna hear there. I wanna disappear. If I could just leave the Earth then I would leave, but I couldn’t leave so I start walking over there like it took me an hour to get—[laughter] I got there and she said, she’s facing the north, I see myself walk in, I’m facing the east. “Boy, didn’t I tell you to go to school today?” “Yes ma’am, I did go.” And that’s the wrong thing to do, tell a grown person they lying. I said, [Laughter] “You got me.” She said now, “Hand me that four clad whip over there,” she had a four clad whip in that corner.

	W:	A rawhide?



	L:	Exactly right. I don’t know who store that, I asked my brothers [inaudible 58:05] who got that four clad whip. Some people still reckon, we never know who got ‘em, you know. He said he didn’t get it. So she said, “Pull your pants down and lay across here, I’m gonna tell you now, you part Indian so I ain’t beating you about the knife, but I told you to go to school.” She said, “I had to work, I couldn’t go to school. They made me work instead of going to school, you got a chance to make something out of yourself.” And she put me—see, I’m an architect, engineer, veteran now, so she did me good. So she put something on me, I kind of straightened out. Then in the seventh grade, I started skipping classes.





	W:	Before we get to that, who is the child born that day? L:	Nancy Ann Lee.

	W:	Who was the next one after that?



	L:	It’s 1960 and then in 1962 Rickey born, Rickey Lee, that’s the one that’s giving us so much trouble now, I think since he’s been to prison two or three times.

	W:	He’s in Madison?



	L:	No, Fort Lauderdale.



	W:	Okay. And does he ever see Cleo?



	L:	Oh yeah, they very tight. And that’s what’s so strange about that. Now, let me tell you about I got coming on that, the sidewalk. Cleo the oldest right? He’s raised by the Cherokee grandmama, he wasn’t raised by—because they told her, from what I got, it goes like this, “Corine, you know your first husband was Black as tar, Cleo Senior, you see his son that’s Black, that half-White man and his mama gonna treat that Black one—ain’t gonna treat him like those children that’s gonna come along after that.” They had no idea I was gonna be Black. So that’s what the deal was going on. So they took Cleo and raised him, my grandmama. So my dad and my mama and all that, before all the children they get, there. But why I say that Cleo Black as me—Blacker than me, matter of fact. But he let my rear brothers and sisters push him up to be against me behind my back. But he showed me a good face and you supposed to be loving—

	W:	But right now Rickey lives in Fort Lauderdale, Cleo is in Del Rey, and going back to the [19]60s, I want to talk about all this, but let’s get the one more child or two more children born.





	L:	One more after [19]62, [19]62 was Rickey, you remember, the last one was Cherry, that’s the Red one, she looked almost White when she was born.

	W:	Cherry?



	L:	Cheyenne, they called her Cherry for a nickname. W:	What was her name?

	L:	Patricia Ann Lee. Yeah, Nancy Ann Lee, she dead. W:	Patricia’s still living. Okay, and when did she die?

	L:	About a year ago.



	W:	Okay, so she’s 1962 and died about 2017? L:	She was fifty-three when she died,

	W:	[19]63, got that wrong, sorry.



	L:	Five-three. Get some water please? W:	We can take a break if you want.

	L:	Just some water if you please pour a little bit in here, I’m fine. W:	You don’t need to use the bathroom or nothing?

	L:	No, I’m good. I’m good. I came ready. Just a good preacher always needs some water.

	W:	I still got some thinking; I’m not doing the talking so—[laughter] L:	All right we can still keep moving.

	W:	Okay. Ready? We’ve gotten past Cherry Patricia Lee, the last sibling. Now, what I wanna do, we got through part one, let’s go back to you, what your first memory, you told us, what it was. Now, you’ve told me before that you started working at a very early age and I thought I heard you say one of the reasons you





didn’t have lunch money that day, you had been working at that age? Had you been working yet?

	L:	Yeah, I had worked because I started working at a tobacco farm, in fact, woah!



Yeah. I started working at four, that’s when we left the turpentine still where I was born at. We left there in [19]58 so I started working about [19]58.

	W:	Let’s talk about your first job, what was that?



	L:	Fred Tobacco Farm, which you can see in that book the little big mules there. My job was to pick up the leaves that fell from the tobacco stick. Now, you got the shade in the back, which they’d use for cigars, strictly for cigars. Now, then tobacco get crushed up there, they grind it up for something else, for filler or whatever.

	W:	So you’re picking up the leaves that were left behind— L:	In the barn that fall.

	W:	They use that for filler, it’s not the shade. That’s not the wrapper, it’s the filler that you’re picking up.

	L:	If you pick up a leaf if it’s good enough it go with the rest of them. But if it’s torn up, that’s the filler. My job was to pick it up, daddy trimmed it.

	W:	Do you remember how much you got paid for that?



	L:	Zero, they taught me how to work. I was waiting on my paycheck after the first week, they say, “It’s to teach you how to work, not to pay you.” WOAH! That was a shocker to me, teach you how to work.

	W:	You just did that one season when you were four or how long did you do that?





	L:	For sure that one season, because the next thing you know I was—We was moving over to Lee Street in [19]58.

	W:	Okay so what’s the season that you’re talking about that would apply when you’re following behind, when you harvested the shaved tobacco. What season would that be? Summer?

	L:	Yeah. It would be summer. Like I say, we was loading up, they was bagging a truckload in Congregate Corner which is the turpentine still. Load us on and take us to Fred Tobacco Farm. And then [19]58 we moved over across town.

	W:	Were you the only four-year-old or did they have other children who were that age working the fields?

	L:	Yeah, they—Everybody had to bring their kids out. You don’t let no kids lay around the house.

	W:	Okay.



	L:	Your babysitter bring them to the field, change the diaper, whatever, and be on to work. Make ‘em do something. That’s from slave days, yeah.

	W:	They didn’t have any kindergarten in those days, right? L:	No.

	W:	Okay. So you worked for two years until you started school? L:	I started at five but I was gonna be six that fall.

	W:	Okay so started at five, tell me anything you remember about your first day in school.

	L:	Well—



	W:	Unless you got something before that, I don’t wanna jump ahead.





	L:	I remember my sister did two years when my sister born. You remember I told you that. Four years work in the tobacco field—

	W:	So four years, during the summers you were working the tobacco fields? Not during school?

	L:	In the summer basically. In the evenings, too. They got a way like if there’s enough daytime left in the evening, you’ll go out there and do something like go pick cotton or whatever in the evening after you get out of school.

	W:	So tell me about that, before you started school if it wasn’t summer and you’re not picking tobacco leaves, you’re picking cotton. What else?

	L:	Cotton, cucumbers, squash, everything seasonal. You had a season for everything, something to get out there and do.

	W:	When did you first start getting paid for the work you were doing?



	L:	Probably be about 1962, [19]61. My first job when I got paid was mule driver. W:	Okay, tell me about that job.

	L:	Mule driver was you get up at four there in the morning, you go out in the country, which is Hanson, of course, then they had carving ants. And the Hanson, this country little town—

	W:	Which direction from Madison is Hanson?



	L:	North. It’s before you get to Pinetta, halfway between Pinetta. W:	Is it still there?

	L:	Yeah, Hanson still there. It used to have a dead man curled up, he was killed in that [inaudible 1:05:40] and they wouldn’t straighten him out. Finally, after some





people got killed they finally straightened it out, you essentially get drunk in



Valdosta because the drunk weight county.



	W:	Did you find the job as a mule driver or did your mother and father find it for you?



How did you get that?



	L:	No, we was farmers with Cherokee from five hundred years back so my mom knew that crop, Mr. Nat. That’s what I was telling you about some Blacks treat you worse than some Whites will treat you. Mr. Nat, he was a World War II veteran, that’s the only way he got this farm. Through a VA [Veterans Affairs] thing or whatever.

	W:	Was he Black or White?



	L:	Black, that’s what I’m telling you now. Mr. Nat Thomas, Nathaniel Thomas. W:	So somehow your grandmama got that job with him?

	L:	Sharecropping, because she got a bunch of children that know how to do this from—

	W:	Okay, but you started getting paid and so how did it happen that you were getting paid instead of your grandmama?

	L:	That’s what my point is. My mom, as I said, when she get with Mr. Nat to sharecrop, because her mom Martha, she had her crew and had them with different families working under her. Because she had six children, so she would have her six children and their children come out to help, that make the family stronger. So many of us, as I said—Now my mama is branching out on her own, she got a big enough family now to go and sharecrop on her own, all right, with Mr. Nat, Nathaniel Thomas, as I said. So I remember vividly, my mom had a





[19]54 Ford, I believe it was, and she wanted to get a 1957 Chevrolet. And she went to Mr. Nat, the Black man who we was working for for a couple of years and said, “Nat, I need enough money to get the down payment for the car here. We need a car here to get out here in this tobacco so we don’t be breaking down on the road.” I remember vividly, all of us was in the car, he said, “Corine,” now he went to the same church we went to too, Justin AME Church. African Methodist Episcopal Church. Said, “Corine, I can’t do it.” All of us was sitting in the car, I remember my mama said, “Nat, this many children been to you working, they getting up at four in the morning, taking out a barn in the back and getting in the field, cucumber, squash, all this stuff we’ve been doing for you and you can’t let me have this money here to get out here to this?” “I’m sorry, if you can’t let me have some money, I’m gonna have to go find me another person, and that person more than likely gonna be a White man that treat me right. And she walked off from him and we started working with Mr. Curt pitman. And I remember, like I say, I was a mule driver for Mr. Nat out there, we’d try and catch the mule that morning and you’d hitch him up to a sleigh. That’s a four by four cut out at a forty-degree angle on the front, so it’ll slide through the dirt, the soil, with the mule drugging it. And I was running mules though the cornfields for my brother to make corn, I was using mules to tow a fifty-five-gallon barrel of water through the fields and transplanters, that’s the thing that you measure and you put the tobacco plant in one by one and plant it. And after so many weeks, you see which one die, you go back and replant where the one died at until you get a full growth of tobacco.





	W:	Did Mr. Nat have a tractor or anything or it was all mules?



	L:	Mules at first, but we worked him up to a tractor. That’s another thing, we had helped him to get a tractor when he still didn’t have the money, yeah. So they worked him up to, I remember, a Ford tractor. And I started driving the tractor and it would make me just smash the clutch before stopping it. And I was so little, I had to use the fender to get my weight there because I was a little small runt. I would get twenty-five cents a day.

	W:	You were about eight years old when you started doing the power tractor? L:	Maybe about seven, yeah.

	W:	Seven. And so you went to work for— L:	Mr. Curt pitman, now.

	W:	pitman?



	L:	Yeah, double T-T.



	W:	And that wasn’t north, that wasn’t Pinetta, where was that?



	L:	No, that would be on Evanhill, that’s where Interstate 10 came through it at. And that’s of course the same where—

	W:	So it was south of Madison? L:	Yeah.

	W:	Okay, go ahead.



	L:	Yeah. So okay, all right I covered that about Curt pitman, we’re going to see Curt, now he’s the county commissioner now, he’s a White guy. [inaudible 1:09:48] matter of fact—

	W:	I’m sorry he--?





	L:	I said he put a mind of ‘em. Matter of fact, he’s a nice White guy, he’s the county commissioner.

	W:	He’s not living anymore?



	L:	No, he’s gone on. No, I’m just talking about your demeanor and all. He’s like you.



You do what you say, Mr. Curt would do what he say. And then he let mama have that money, she went and bought her the car she wanted and we stuck by him until my mom basically retired, yeah, until he got in the tobacco business.

	W:	How many years was that?



	L:	Okay, that was probably about [19]62, got out about [19]70, about eight years. Raised all these children, raised all his children his son went into the Navy. And they’re so amazing. When I got retirement, when I ran for president, I got all that money and I wanted to get everybody together, the White ones and the Black ones, all us meet for a family reunion back on the farm where we worked there with the White kids. And I noticed they kept stalling it and they would never get together with us and one of the White kids about younger than me, Jimmy, he said, “Monroe, I feel sorry. John John won’t let y’all come out.” John John was the younger one who born after my mama stopped working for his daddy. And he ended up with the farm, his mama married a man who was a lawyer or something. What Jimmy said, why John John wouldn’t let us have the reunion out there, listen to this. Said John John—

	W:	When was the reunion?



	L:	I wanted to have a reunion when I got the money for running for president. W:	You hadn’t had it yet; you’re just telling me what you were trying to—





L:   Yeah, trying to get ‘em together, to get the Whites and the Blacks back together to celebrate the unity among the Whites and the Blacks that been together for a hundred years, at least.

W:   You were a teenager then?



	L:	No, remember, I run for president. W:	Oh, you’re talking about later, okay.

	L:	Yeah. But I wanted to get everybody back together and bring us in where we could have this big evening down there to this pond we used to irrigate, put the hose in and pour the water out on the plants.

	W:	And I wanna get into that but one thing I wanna get into before you go there, so your mom stopped working for him in 1970 but there were other kids working, you’d started working other places before then, right? You weren’t working only for Mr. Pittman.

	L:	Yeah, I worked other places like I would go load watermelons.



W:   Okay, so go ahead to what you were trying to say, sorry to interrupt.



	L:	It’s all right, it’s fine. I was telling you about we was trying to get the reunion together, you remember, and John John, we were trying to get John John to agree to it. And now Jimmy is telling me why he won’t do it. He said, “John John,” who’s got all the property now or whatever or control of the plantation, say he backed into a Black lady—see now he used the word Black, who it was, and she say she ain’t hurt, it’s all right. But as soon as they find out John John had some money they going at him in court, trying to sue him or something. And John John scared. If y’all Blacks come out here and y’all get around that pond, it’s a gator in





there. If the gator get one of y’all, y’all might try and sue him. I said, “Jimmy, we know not to get around that gator. That gator was drowning cows back forty years ago. You know he’d drown a person.” That gator got to be a monster now. The gator out there fifty years drowning cows back then. So there you go. So they wouldn’t let us have that idea. Where do you wanna go next.

	W:	Well, where I wanna go is when you stopped working for Mr. Pittman, or did you stop or just work at other places?

	L:	After my sisters and brothers abused me so much with the lies, I bought me some hogs and started raising my own hogs.

	W:	Tell me about that. How old were you when you started raising hogs? L:	Oh, 1967 my stepdaddy—

	W:	[19]67?



L:   Yeah. Who owned the Moonlight Café—



W:  Okay let’s go back before [19]67. Let’s get to that. I know you were working as hour labor or piece labor, before then, when did you first start having your own business? Like having hogs, was that in [19]67 or did you do that before then?

L:  Before then. My first business, like I say—Remember, we moved in Lee Street in [19]58 in the snow. And I was saying all that about going out to work with Mr.

Pittman in the [19]60s. But around about [19]62, [19]63, I found out that people eat a lot of racoons and to eat a racoon you had to skin him. So he got a hide and they put in on fur coats, evidently. You could get two dollars, three dollars for a hide but you had to cure it out, stretch it on, put salt on it, keep the flies and





maggots from growing on it. You know, salt to keep it all from getting tan. So I would sell those hides to the same guy who cow ran my mama in the house.

	W:	How old were you when you started doing that?



	L:	I had to be about seven, eight. Seven or eight. Then I picked up pecans too in the winter season.

	W:	Okay, so we’re talking about [19]61? L:	Yeah, [19]62, or [19]61, yeah.

	W:	And at some point, you started hiring other kids to work for you. When was that? L:	Oh, I started being a contractor around about [19]73, [19]74.

	W:	Okay, let’s go back to the early [19]60s. I’m gonna depend on you Monroe. I think, when you and I were working in the melon fields in Hamilton County, I think that was 1965 but I’m not sure. Was that [19]65?

	L:	Yeah, right at [19]65, yeah. Because I would go—anywhere I could catch a hitch at, you know what that means, somewhere I could make some money, a White man come up and say, “I need something.” Handing watermelons, we doing tobacco, and then they say, “This man over here, Mr. Johnson over here in Hamilton County got some watermelons out there, get over there and get him a truckload, transfer a truck. Then we would go over there, and that’s where I run into you at, there.

	W:	As I remember, those were those zebra watermelons, the watermelons with different stripes.

	L:	Yeah, they call them jubilee or something.





	W:	Jubilee watermelons. Now, Monroe, I’m a lot bigger than you are now but in 1965 I probably wasn’t, I was a little shrimp. And what I remember was they were paying us—it might’ve been pickup trucks, might’ve been something else, paying us for each melon we put in the truck and someone kept track of it, as I remember. Now, sometime in the last year after I met you and talked to you a few times and it started dawning on me that that was not just you working the field but I had this recollection of a young Black man who was out there working, and I didn’t know what I was doing. The only reason I was in the field that summer was because in Live Oak, they had closed down the swimming pool.

Every summer I would either play Little League baseball or go to that swimming pool, and there was nothing to do. And my uncle said, “Why don’t you come up and work?” I didn’t know anything about working in the field, and I remember it was hot. And I remember sweating and getting sunburnt—

	L:	That was when I see you out there.



	W:	I wanted to get out of there and I didn’t even know your name, I don’t think. You were probably a couple years, maybe a year and a half older than I was. You came and took watermelon, showed me how to do it, and carried several of them to the truck for me. What is he doing? He’s not making money because he’s helping me! Anyway, you got a pretty good disposition, Monroe. What were you thinking, helping someone else make money instead of you?

	L:	See, that was such an amazing thing to me that I learned very early, quickly. It’s just the way it is, it’s true. Growing up, it was only a Black school, right. Only Blacks went to Black school, but there were certain teachers, and just most of





them would be—Like if a teacher got White in their bloodline, you could tell who got the White in their bloodline. My daddy, that’s one thing about him. I’m proud of him. I think that’s what makes me—He never thought he was above the rest of the Black people because he was a mixed man. And that was so amazing. One thing I remember my daddy did, and I think about it now, I kind of laugh. He was talking to some city boys or something, guys around Madison, there might be some White guys in there too he was talking with. He was a comedian, he always liked making people laugh. And he could change his voice just like I change too, you know. He say, “Mrs. Washer,” or whatever this White lady name is, big shot lady who had money, got a house around Lake Francis there. He say, “Y’all,” Mrs. Whatever her name was, I don’t wanna get it mixed up, I wanna say it because I know this is programming. “She say she got a husband. She went off and married her husband, brought him back here to Madison. But the other day, the city had me doing a project over there by the house, I seen him--” that’s my daddy. “He ain’t no White man, he Blacker than me!” Now my daddy is White and Black. She married a White man, he Blacker than them! I thought that was so amazing, him being half-White and made that joke like that. He never tell me about, “Don’t mess with no White women, don’t try and date no White women.” My mom, she knew because she seen in the Thursday Black, the [inaudible 1:28:56] during that police riot, it might’ve been that, taking names to give an example and they killed one of my uncles—I don’t wanna spur off too much. I mean, in 1920, 1930s, by his own wife, there in Whitman, I think it’s Cherry Lake—





	W:	Isn’t Whitman just north of Cherry Lake? L:	Yeah, right across the line.

	W:	All right, so about the time that we were working on that field in Hamilton County, that’s about the time your parents split up, wasn’t it?

	L:	Yeah, exactly right.



W:  Now, did your father have any other kids with a different wife or did your mother have any kids with a different husband, or not?

L:   No, that was it. That was it, because she had Cleo before with his daddy, daddy got killed in a bridge. And then my daddy had a baby by woman that was mixed like him, that baby died. So he didn’t have any more children. He was a straight rod, he’s a pretty straight guy.

W:   Okay, and did he work for the city of Madison most of his life?



	L:	Yeah, about thirty-five years but in places in between he would go out and do some tobacco.

W:   When did your father die?



	L:	1973, I’ll never forget, October 20th. W:	Okay. And when did your mother die? L:	1998.

	W:	And they were both still living in Madison when they died? L:	Right.

	W:	You said [19]98? L:	Right, [19]98.





	W:	Right. Now Monroe, I’m gonna ask you just to remember what you can because you’ve got—You’re much better with dates than I am. I don’t remember much from my elementary school days, but from that summer that we worked in that field together to the end of the [19]60s, tell me what kind of jobs you had and also, if you can, tell me about school. I think you missed one or two years, they held you back, correct?

	L:	Right, correct.



	W:	Tell me a little bit about the jobs and then let’s go over to the schools. And I guess they were segregated until what, [19]68 or [19]69, something like that?

	L:	[19]69-[19]70 was the first year I entered in. But in [19]65, [19]66, you could go to White schools if you’ve got enough nerve. Because when they gave us the right to come over there, if you’re smart enough to think you wanna go over there with the White kids, you worked in the back, where a lot of them would say, “If y’all aunts come over here, there will be blood in the streets.” If y’all come across US- 90, we got to cross [Highway] 90 to get to there, but if you were brave enough to go, you could go to a White school, and a few Blacks trickled over there then. But in [19]70, Nixon say, there’s no more Black school, middle school, it’s just elementary, you know. It’s 1970, my first year entering in.

	W:	So Monroe, you might not have known it or maybe you did, but did anything happen? Because I’m over in Suwannee County, and in Suwannee County, I saw a lot of changes. So they filled the swimming—they probably didn’t even have a public swimming pool in Madison, I don’t guess. Did they have a swimming pool there?





	L:	Yeah, they had one at first.



	W:	So what happened when they had to integrate the public facilities? Did they let Blacks and Whites go in together?

	L:	Yeah, they let us in. They had a little White pool down by the railroad tracks, they had it running for a while. But then somebody figured they’d let that thing phase out, as you said, and they finally fill it in, yeah. They built a Black pool—

	W:	But anybody could go to it, they just didn’t. I mean, you couldn’t keep a White person out of a Black pool or a Black person out of a White pool, but they’d encourage you not to do it. Now, I remember in Live Oak there was a theater called the Alamar Theater, and during the summers, I didn’t have any school to go to and of course I went and worked where you were up until that summer, in the field. And I remember, did they have a movie theater in Madison?

	L:	Yes, Woodard.



	W:	Woodard. Where was it, on [Highway] 90?



	L:	Right by the courthouse, matter of fact. Adjacent to Picnic Street where I got rid of the legion and converted to where the jail was at, the same street over right by the courthouse. The movie was on the southside, and the post office right on the east side. So you’ve got the eastside post office, US Post Office, and right there west of it, right across was Woodard Theater, which was upstairs, and they would make the Blacks go upstairs and the Whites would be downstairs.

	W:	That’s what I was gonna ask you because I remember—I think it was twenty-five cents, is what it would cost to go into the theater. And they didn’t stop you from getting a Coke or a Fanta or whatever it was from the—you could get one of





those for five or ten cents and go in. And I remember I thought that it was much better upstairs, I thought it was a better place to go, and I tried to go upstairs at the Alamar and they, “No, you can’t do that.” What did you think? Did you think it was better to be upstairs or down?

	L:	You got a better view but see what happened is too—I actually said, “Why they put the Blacks up here?” They say, “A Black know, if he throw something down on them White folks, they gon’ come up and beat him and drag him out of here.” But if Whites get up here, they’re gonna throw all kinds of stuff on the Blacks down there, so that’s the psychology.

	W:	That might’ve made sense. Didn’t it seem to you as better to be up there? L:	Oh yeah, you get a better view. But you don’t throw nothing down there.

[Laughter]



	W:	And sometime after that the Alamar in Live Oak burned down, I don’t know if it had anything to do with integration or not. When did the theater in Madison—it’s not still there, obviously, it’s gone?

	L:	The building is there but they got the tax collector’s office and everything in there now. Same building.

	W:	Okay. Do you remember anything else? When you had the opportunity to go to a White school, you didn’t do it, right?

	L:	Right, not on my own. W:	Why not?

	L:	I was kind of like a big-time leader because I was the only artist out there that could draw every part of the body for the science teachers and all like that.





	W:	When do you start doing stuff in school about drawing? When did you learn that you had that talent?

	L:	I was doing that in third and fourth grade, because you know, when I skipped school—remember I told you that, when Nancy born in 1960—I was already drawing then. She went to Bellemy, she would have drawing contests just like every season, Thanksgiving, turkeys, and whoever could do the best drawing win the prize, pies and whatever. So I was drawing back then.

	W:	Did you have any teaching or just teach yourself how to do it?



	L:	Well, I did my first drawing at four or five years old, I was in first grade in Marie Campbell’s class, I sat to the front of the class, and so one day that little stenograph that we make copies on the blue forms and all, her daughters come in racing, Juanita, the mom was teaching, and they showed her. They discussed, and so when they left, they threw it in the garbage. So right where the garbage at, you got the pencil sharpener, all that ashes and stuff that falls out, graphite falls into the trashcan so it doesn’t get on the floor. So I go up to the pencil sharpener to sharpen my pencil and I see this dog stencil down there. So I get it out the garbage and take it back and trace it. So I went and showed the teacher the tracing, she said, “Oh, Monroe, that’s good.” So she was a pretty Black lady, so I was impressed that I impressed a Black lady, pretty as this woman is. So all I wanted to do then was draw. [Laughter]

	W:	Did you ever get any training before you got to be— L:	No, I just had it naturally.

	W:	You just did it yourself?





	L:	Right.



	W:	Okay. And for the rest of the [19]60s, do you remember—you might or might not. When I would go to the theater on Saturday, I would walk through a laundromat in Live Oak. We lived on Hamilton Street, and walked to the laundromat to get a Coke or Fanta. And I saw above the washing machines, it said, “White patrons only.” And I remember going back and asking, because I saw “patrons,” I had just learned and it’s like an apron, you cannot put an apron in the washing machine because it will get—I didn’t know what that meant. And grandma told me, she didn’t like it but that’s—did they have signs like that in Madison or did you see signs like that?

	L:	Oh, yeah. I remember vividly at the courthouse, the Black folks wasn’t allowed upstairs, to use the bathroom upstairs. You know, they always say crap run downhill. But you was allowed to use the bathroom downstairs, you go down and go under, that’s where all the Blacks went. And then they have a sign with a Black hand saying “Colored.” Colored, you know, that’s Black.

	W:	Yeah.



	L:	Colored only. White only.



	W:	Any other business, I guess you just knew what you could go into and what you couldn’t, nobody told you.

	L:	And then Chuckwagon, that’s another place they didn’t allow Blacks in. And they had to desegregate it. I remember they said they was going down there, they said, “We integrating the Chuckwagon and we going to sit in at the counter to make ‘em serve us.” So they had a couple of sit-ins down there until they finally





just closed down rather than let the Blacks come in there. That’s called the Chuckwagon.

	W:	That big mansion on [Highway] 90 with all the Greek columns, The Goza, I think it’s called. Was that run down back then or was there anything in that? You know the mansion I’m talking about.

	L:	Yeah, it was a Confederate hospital during the Civil War. It was Smith-Wallace



	mansion in the old days, but it was there. W:	Was it just a private home or what was it?

	L:	It was going between different owners at the time. Different owners, you know. W:	But it wasn’t a business.

	L:	No.



	W:	Right. When did they build North Florida Junior College in Madison? L:	Hmm, I think it would be around 1955.

	W:	We’re gonna jump ahead in a little while to that, but before you went there, it’d been there for a long time. Do you remember when that was integrated?

	L:	I guess it was probably about the same time as the schools, yeah. Because you remember I told you about they had the Suwannee River College over there for the Blacks to go, so then not all Blacks old enough for the college, yeah. At the same time, late [19]60s.

	W:	Did you have any other businesses where you—you said it wasn’t until [19]70 or thereafter when you started hiring other people to work for you, what else did you do besides working in the fields, driving mules? What else did you do until about [19]70? What kind of jobs did you have?





	L:	Well, you remember I told you about my serving at the Moonlight Café, which was a juke where they sold hamburgers and beer.

	W:	That was basically a Black-owned business.



	L:	Right, my stepdad and my mom, yeah. So he said, “Tell mom I got a new stock of candy,” this is in 1967, “I got a new stock of candy coming in so I’m gonna clean my candy jars out, what I have in here now.” And you would get this old candy and take it to school and start you a little business. Like I say, I was already doing the coon hides and stuff like that, picking up cans. So he gave me that candy, so I went to school with this candy for five cent a piece and I was a hit, man. Matter of fact, I remember vividly this girl got more than she could carry with her hands, she was a kind of cute little Black girl. She said she had no time for me before I became a business owner, and when I started selling them now, “Monroe, Monroe! Monroe, Monroe!” I was kind of a sharp little kid, I said, “Well, I tell you what, if I wasn’t nothing to you before I became a businessman I’m nothing to you now!” [Laughter]

	W:	What kind of things did you sell?



	L:	Cookies, candy, candy like squirrel nuts, Mary Jane, and loose candy. Like I say, my stepdaddy got a new crop, he gave me all this candy so I was selling at a reduced rate. And then after I sold all that, I went back and started buying Moon Pies at thirty-nine cents a box. Twelve in a box, and you would sell them for five cents.

	W:	Chocolate or banana?



	L:	Oh, I got different flavors. I’d get chocolate, vanilla, I got to swap it for ‘em.





	W:	How many came in a box, twelve?



	L:	Twelve. So I would go get me at least two big grocery bags full, you know, they had no plastic bags, you had these brown grocery bags. So I would get up four in the morning, then I would go to Setzer’s, that was the store back then. Catch ‘em right as they open up, and I would get my pies and get back to school by the time the busses come. Because a certain part of the morning before the class start, you could do what you wanted to do, sell your cookies and your candy. So I built up from there.

	W:	How much did you sell one Moon Pie for?



	L:	A nickel. Five times twelve is sixty, so I would get sixty cents for thirty-nine cents.



	W:	That’s about three cents a Moon Pie, you sell ‘em for five cents, something like that.

	L:	Yeah, just think, I’m paying thirty-nine cents a box for ‘em, I’m making sixty cent.



So what, I’m making twenty-one cent profit, almost double. So that was pretty good to me. And one day, I remember vividly, I went and got me like about eight, nine ten boxes of pies and put ‘em on the shelf in the classroom, right, one the little shelf back in the back. I’m in class. All of a sudden, these big guys enter our homeroom and football players, they put a quarter on my head, just hold me there. I don’t know what was going on. And I come out from under the court, they took all my pies. All the boxes. So I go to the bathroom and I ate all of ‘em, stuff ‘em and just put the wrappers in the garbage.

	W:	Just because you didn’t want them to get them? You wanted to— L:	No, I had them to sell but they took all of ‘em from me.





	W:	Who ate them in the bathroom? L:	The football players.

	W:	Oh, they did. You were going to a school that had football, you weren’t in elementary, you were already in high school?

	L:	No, you remember, Madison County Training School was everything. From first grade to senior.

	W:	Okay, I didn’t know that.



	L:	So sometimes guys would be there for three or four years, they got ‘em playing football, they still keep ‘em in seventh grade right along with the kids.

	W:	Was that still a segregated Black school? L:	Yeah.

	W:	I didn’t know that. Did the Black teams play the Black teams?



	L:	Yeah, you’d go to different—In Perry, that as bad. They would break the one like—If you win a game in Perry, they’d break the windows out your bus, throw rocks, all that kind of stuff.

	W:	Did you ever play any of those teams?



	L:	No, I was always an artist, I didn’t believe in banged up.



	W:	Okay, so that was one business. And it’s only your impression, Monroe, but it sounds to me like you’re kind of a go-getter, where other kids your age—doing the business stuff, or you kind of had—

	L:	No, I was the one. Because I remember this one guy now they think they got White in they blood, too, on the Jewish side. Jonahs. And they got children by my sister, one of them, and I got a kid by one of his cousins, but I remember





Tommy Jones, which is the boy that got bit by my sisters, he was a little younger brother. He said, “Monroe, let me get a pie! Let me grab a pie from you.” I said, “Well Tom, I let you have it when you gon’ be able to pay me.” He got to thinking when he was gonna pay me, so I said, well, I can’t let you have it. And fifteen years later now, he holding that, he gives me, he say he never gave it and I admonished him about it. I said, “Bro, you should have had it to me about fifty years ago man.” I say, “You couldn’t tell me you was gonna pay for the pie!” He said, “Yeah, I remember.” Now he’s up there, he’s got his little fancy business and now he’s just all above Monroe, I got my business now. But I never did try to be big. My mama, that’s one thing I love about my mom and that make me the person I am now. She never believed in this pride stuff, “I’m better than them because I got this, I got that.” I remember one time my mom had a little stuffed tiger tail on her mirror, right? And the girl she raised, that Sally May, half-White sister-in-law, and my mama took her in, she said, “I got these kids here working in the back, you work when they work, you staying like you’re one of mine.” So as soon as she pull up, she got married or either was getting married. She got her a coon, a tiger tail on her mirror, her [19]58 Ford. I’ll never forget it. I’m with my mom, one day I ride and say, “Muddy!” That’s what we called Mother Dear, but I said, “Muddy, Jenny copying off of us. She got her—.” She said, “Shut that up, Tommy!” And I never forget that until today. I looked at her, “Why? What I did wrong?” She say, “She got what her money afforded her. Don’t you ever let me hear you so proud that you think you up above somebody else.” And that’s with me to today and that’s why I treat everybody like I want to be treated. “We’re all





God’s children, and we’re gonna be dead one day,” and that’s made me the person I am today. Foolish people do like the stuff with my dogs I’m gonna talk about later on. If it was just me, you know, we all got to die. But people don’t get that.

	W:	Monroe, that’s what you learned from your mom but you told me a number of times that your dad taught you some other things, too. What did you learn from him?

	L:	Oh he, no no no said “Live and let live.” I use all that. Because no no no, when they put me in jail that time with that marijuana, I didn’t do it. I hadn’t did anything but I had money in the bank then. That other boy had told that weed to an undercover agent, JJ Miller, a narcotic investigator from Gainesville, Florida, because he said he came up there with this informant and so when they come at me, they want me. They said, “Bobby Cherry Walnut da da da da—”

	W:	Monroe, I’m gonna get to that time when you got arrested, I want to get to that. But so you’re telling me that your father told you, “Don’t tell on people,” that’s what you’re saying.

	L:	Don’t go running your mouth all the time, even if you might know something, you could get killed. So if you don’t know, you don’t know, that’s all they can get out of you.

	W:	He also gave you some advice, I think you’ve told me, about how White people and Black people get along, what were some of those things that he told you?

	L:	Oh, well, like I said, his thing was this right here. Believe in God but treat your fellow man like you want to be treated. We all God’s children. But then, like he





also told me about those pimps, those informant Blacks that just don’t mean to do right no kind of way. They’ll do all this dirt, that means stuff they could do illegal, and as long as that White man who over them, directing them, applauding them because they doing some of that dirt for him, they’ll cover for him, that person doing that dirt. But in the end, daddy showed me how that’s gonna fail.

But you see, doing the right thing—Just keep doing the right thing. I don’t know if that answers the question, but that’s what he taught me.

	W:	It does. There came a time, well before we get to when they integrated the schools, you got held back twice, right?

	L:	Right.



	W:	What grades did you get held back in?



	L:	Fourth grade, I was in Mrs. William’s room. I was doing great in school but I was a class clown. I would make people laugh, I enjoyed it, I thought I was a good comedian, I guess. I made them laugh and I sat to the back of the class, and to the right row of the class and I had my little milk carton, and they got some cheese, it’s called golden cheese cookies. And I had me a little milk cut out for my little tray, so I would get my golden cheese and soak ‘em in that milk, that just gave ‘em a great little flavor as soon as they get soggy, I could chew it. I guess I didn’t like the crunch. And I would chase it with milk, that was my little snack. And I remember vividly, God bless the day you hear that AC Davis, he was kind of mixed guy, Red, and he would come in. He was about seven years older than me. And that joker made one of these cone shooters out of a clothes pin with a rubber band, and it got some pretty good force to it. And he come behind me





pulling. Well, he shot me right in my head. That was the most painful thing; I can hear it. And then he would do things like, he’d get around these people in the school, “Y’all wanna come to Punchy house?”

	W:	Punchy is your father.



	L:	That’s my daddy. All of ‘em was beating Punchy, had Punchy hanging up in a tree. Stuff like that. I couldn’t beat him. He dead now, he suffered a lot. I said to myself, “He suffered because of me.” He’s dead because I couldn’t beat him, you know. So I was bullied, you can’t let ‘em, you just have to—

	W:	So that contributed to you being held back in school?



	L:	Well, being the class clown in the school got me the fourth grade, and the cat come in there, that’s the same cat I’m telling you about. But I was the class clown, that’s really what held me back.

	W:	So you must’ve been held back before that summer we were working in the fields in Hamilton County.

	L:	Yeah, because that was fourth grade, I got eight years before I met you there, yeah. I was already in front of four.

	W:	Now, when you were held back again, what grade was that?



	L:	Okay, that was seven years later. When I got in seventh grade, you got to change classes then. You got six different teachers. You got a homeroom teacher, you got math teacher, health teacher, physical education, P.E., teacher, all them, and I just couldn’t. I just had to skip some of them classes. I ain’t gonna go to some. And then I was smoking cigarettes back then, and I was smoking Winston’s.





	W:	When did you start smoking? How old were you?



	L:	About [19]65, about twelve, thirteen. This is the year I flunked. W:	How much did a pack of cigarettes cost back then?

	L:	When I quit, they were thirty-five cents a pack. W:	When did you quit?

	L:	1965, [19]66.



	W:	So you quit when you were ten years old, eleven years old?



	L:	The year was [19]65 when I was twelve, so [19]67, yeah. I didn’t like the way my breath smelled in the morning. I just didn’t like that.

	W:	Just curious, how many packs did you smoke?



	L:	Well, I never smoked a whole pack. That’s the catch too. I was doing what they do, I’d keep ‘em in my front pocket, Black guys called ‘em squares. “Hey man, give me a square!” And I’d just give it up. And I done give the whole pack away before I smoke it, and that’s what was going on, too. And I said, “Man you’re giving way more than you’re smoking.” Because some people would let the old bomb, “Give me a square,” and then I’d give ‘em a square.

	W:	They didn’t let you smoke at school though?



	L:	Yes, you just had to be in the bathroom to do it.



	W:	If they caught you would you get in trouble or was it okay?



	L:	Yeah, if they smelled it on you when you were in class. [Laughter]



	W:	So you were just being a clown again in seventh grade or what made you get held back that time?

	L:	Remember, I tell you I was skipping classes.





	W:	You skipped too many?



	L:	I would leave school and go run with the big boys, drink beer with ‘em or whatever, you know. I would rather be around the crowd, you know, I just wanna stand around and see what’s going on. Because I figure I didn’t need to go to school. I knew everything already. I never took no books home, never do no homework. I just pick up what the teacher say in class because I’m pretty sharp.

	W:	When did you stop going to church? When your parents split up? Or before then? L:	Stop going or start going?

	W:	Stop going. You said you went to AME Church when you were younger. L:	Oh. I stay with AME now, I’m an AME minister.

	W:	Well, I understand. So you never stopped? L:	Never stopped.

	W:	I didn’t know that.



	L:	When you going that long, you get up and come to college, you do more partying than go to church sometimes. Until God stop you, that’s what happened to me.

	W:	But so you’re still going with your family to church during this whole time? L:	Yeah, going by myself, yeah.

	W:	Okay. Now where was that AME church in Madison?



	L:	Rockeford Road. Right north of Madison, heading towards Pinetta, in between Pinetta and Cherry Lake Road, it’s called Rockeford Road, which is about eight miles out, even with the preacher, nine miles. Yeah, eight nine miles out.

	W:	Did you have to walk or how did you get there?





L:  Oh, we would catch rides. You know, we kind of had cars for moving’ from the turpentine still, some people will drive and take you out and you catch loads of people to go to church, yeah.

	W:	I want to jump back for just a minute, you mentioned that after four years or so after you were born you moved from the turpentine still, why were you there? Was your father working at the turpentine still? Why were you living—

	L:	Turpentine Still is the most economical subdivision. Rent was three dollars a week.

	W:	Okay, you weren’t working the turpentine it’s just where you lived?



	L:	Some people stayed around that worked in turpentine, picking up tongue oil.



They had different [inaudible 1:43::03] three hours a week for the rent.



	W:	So your father wasn’t working in turpentine or tongue oil?



L:   No, he was city, he’d go to work in the city.



W:  I guess Madison had lots of pecans and lots of peaches, did you ever do anything with those?

L:  Yeah, my mom, after she stopped working in tobacco she started contracting to peaches, because she always got that fear was a fear of capacity, to get people to do things. Yes, she worked in peaches, everything.

W:  Well at some point, and I don’t want to jump ahead too far, when did you get your first car? Automobile?

L:   1972.



W:  Okay so let’s go back a little bit. Okay, so what year did they integrate the schools again?





	L:	[19]70, full integration 1970, Nixon.



	W:	In Gainesville they integrated schools in January of [19]70, they had to do it right away. Was it mid-year there or was it in the beginning of the schoolyear?

	L:	At the end of the schoolyear of 1970, that would be at the beginning of June, about this time of the year, we met up at the Suwannee River old administration building at the college, which was a high school then. But like I say, Shade Robertson, this the cousin who I know is my cousin, “Lee, Lee, Lee, Lee,” he talk like a Geechee. “Next year, we going to all the White schools.” Said, “I’m in Brick and Blocks, you out to get in that. When it rain, we go to this pool room.” You know, because you can’t play Brick and Block in the rain.

	W:	So hold on for a second. He was telling you to go to vocational school instead of school?

	L:	No, you had a choice to go to college for half a day or vocational school, in high school, half a day.

	W:	He was trying to encourage you to go part of the day at the college and part of the day at the high school?

	L:	I was already at the high school; he was letting me know to get in that class. W:	But you were in the Black high school in spring of [19]70?

	L:	Yeah, see, it’s going over now. And the year start over. So we got extra work for the coming year.

	W:	So why was it that you didn’t do that before? Was it something about integration that made you want to be away from there?





	L:	Well, you remember, like I told you, the White kids already said if you come over here then your ends, there’s gonna be blood in the streets. That’s back in about [19]65, [19]66, when they first was able to do it. You could go over there if you got enough nerve, so about four or five Blacks went over. Like my cousin Rossie, she was very smart, I don’t know if she dead now. She had brains out this world. She always A+ student. She was going over there, that’s I remember that was before Nixon mandated it. So about three or four years, you could volunteer from about [19]67 to [19]70, you could volunteer.

	W:	What I’m getting is that in the fall of [19]70, you were going to be going to integrated schools, your friend was saying, “Let’s go over to college for half of the time.” What would you be studying?

	L:	He was already going over there to Brick & Block already. W:	He was.

	L:	So he was encouraging me to take that course with him for that half a day.



	W:	Now half a day you wouldn’t have to worry about being harassed, but what about the other half of the day, when you’re at the school?

	L:	Being harassed?



	W:	You said the White folks would—



	L:	Oh, you remember they told us that before they mandated it. That meant if y’all



ends come over here, there will be blood in the street.



	W:	But you’re fine after [19]70? L:	Yeah.





	W:	So why was he asking you to go over to the college, just because he thought it was less work?

	L:	Yeah, the pool room fact. That when it rained, you go to the pool room and can shoot pool.

	W:	Okay and you couldn’t do that at school, they’d be watching over you at the high school.

	L:	Yeah, you couldn’t go, you’d be at school all day.



	W:	Okay. So in the fall of [19]70, you did that dual enrollment. So you started out in the block masonry stuff, this is North Florida Junior College.

	L:	Right.



	W:	And how long were you in that program?



	L:	About a couple of months in, I was a runt, like I say, a small kid and doing the watermelon work we had did. And I saw the little blocks and I said, “This here is what we’re making a living the rest of my life? Got to handle these.” I’m thinking, I already could draw, right? Talk to Mr. Miley, the White guy, the instructor. And I said, “Mr. Miley,” he’s from Mississippi—

	W:	You said he was a teacher at North Florida? L:	Masonry teacher.

	W:	At North Florida.



	L:	Masonry, right. Masonry class..



	W:	So he must’ve seen you didn’t like the work.



	L:	I go to him, I went to him and ask him could I draw for him, I could draw blueprints. I had already drew my mama a house in [19]68, two years before,





helped my stepdaddy draw it. This the house she built in [19]68. So I’m telling him that I would love to draw for him, and he telling me now, he say, “Well Mr. Lee, if you can draw you should be in drafting.” I said, “Drafting? I don’t wanna go in the Army!” I didn’t want drafting! He said, “Mr. Lee, there’s two draftings, there’s a drafting in the Army and there’s a drafting, drawing, drafting blueprints.” I said, “Okay.” He said, “Well come work for me.” So we went upstairs, Mr.

Swain, he said, “I got Lee here, he say he want to draw for me and I told him he could draw here and be in drafting but he think that’s going’ in the Army. I told him it’s drawing.” And Mr. Swain is from—he doesn’t mind the teasing, sharp man, you know. He’s from South Carolina, living in—He looked at me, he said, “What grade he in?” I said, “I’m in tenth but I’m supposed to be in twelfth. I flunked fourth and seventh. I’m old enough.” He said, “But now you got to be tenth grade, eleventh, or you is in college already and you at the college here.” And Mr. Miley gave him a wink, a message wink or something, he said, “Give him a chance.” He said, “Okay, I’ll try him for a grade period.” So I was in there, Mr. Swain teaching me how to do radius and arcs, and I’m still gon’ freehand. But he was smart, he was sharp man. He got a red pencil and he went, “You do wrong, we catch that, it’s not lining up, you free handing.” He could catch it every time, no matter how pretty it looked.

	W:	So you’re trying to freehand because it was quicker than using the instruments.



	L:	Yeah, that’s what I was used to, I’d make it look pretty. I was straight A’s, like he told him but I wish someone would do wrong. But I mean, that’s bad habits. So he would catch me every time, so I made a D. The first grade. Now I look at him,





I’m about to cry. I’m mad. But the spirit come to me, and I know it was God, He say now, “It’s your fault. You not doing what the man tell you to do, how you expect to get a good grade?” And then he said, “You’re gonna be a quitter or you’re gonna be a winner.” So the next grading period, I end up with a B. And then I made myself an A, and then Mr. Swain, the end of the year, he said, “Lee, I want to talk to you in the student center.” That’s at North Florida College. So we go over there, we’re looking over at the water, and he say, “Now you gon’ make a fine draftsman, but now you come back next year, eleventh grade, and do your last year of college, what you gon’ do your senior year?” I said, “Go back to high school fulltime.” He said, “No, no, no, no.” He said, “I highly recommend—” that’s the way he talk, Charles Swain, he said, “I recommend that you go back to high school full time, get you some algebra, strengthen your math, because you gon’ need it in days coming, days you wanna be an architect, just like you wanna be. I said, “Okay, I’ll do that.” So I went back to high school full time eleventh grade year, and in June 1972, or maybe at this time of year, I got a big mistake. [Interstate] 10 to Jacksonville, and we moved online to Leesburg, Lake City, to start bringing [Interstate] 75 in. And we got to Leesburg—

	W:	Hold on for a second, you finished your eleventh-grade year but that’s as far as you went in high school?

	L:	Well, you remember, I went back to high school to finish my eleventh-grade year but Mrs. Katron, the German teacher, I was doing good, making A’s, but then she would go into other lessons, which that’s what you do in Algebra. But some kind of way, I fell out with her and I quit school.





	W:	Did you quit during the spring of [19]72? When did you quit?



	L:	Yeah, like getting out of the spring, getting out of the winter, going up into about March, seemed like.

	W:	And that’s when you started working on which interstate?



	L:	At first I started with wood tree-cutting. You remember that? I took Osmos.



	W:	Where was that?



	L:	In Madison County, all the light poles in Madison County.



	W:	Were you doing that while you were in school? Or when you quit? L:	When I quit school and got that job.

	W:	Okay. You’re working for Osmos and that’s treating telephone poles?



	L:	They eighteen inches in the ground, if it’s rotten, you put a tag on it to get it out, get a new pole. But if it’s good, you put this goo around it which is asphalt.

	W:	What kind of money were you making doing that?



	L:	Seemed like it might’ve been about $2.75 an hour back then. W:	And full time?

	L:	Yeah.



	W:	Okay, and so you went to Leesburg, I missed that. How did you end up going to Leesburg?

	L:	Yeah, I was getting to that. What happened was I told you, I was doing the Osmos wood company, and my hands got so cold that Saturday, and you remember I told you about this White guy named Gary, he’s from New York. He was my crew chief and we’d take a half a bucket of this goo through the woods, because you couldn’t take a whole five gallons, that’s a lot to tow. So my hands





got so cold, I couldn’t feel my hands or my feet. And God started talking, I know it was the spirits, they say now, “You’re gonna be facing the rest of your life. You quitting school.” I thought about it and another spirit told me, “Well go to Dairy, go to Miami with Wombat.” You won’t never have to worry about working in the cold then.

	W:	Was Cleo and [inaudible 1:52:44] living in Del Ray then?



	L:	Yeah, and something say, “Well, you can beat the heat but you’ll still be under somebody thumb without an education.” So I told Gary, I said, “Gary, I’m cold man. I can’t do it man.” He said, “Well you knock off Mr. Lee, you quit, you gon’ have to walk out these woods.” Man, that’s when I thought about murder. Yeah, I think I might have. But he looked at me and he started looking, I said, “You brought me out in these woods. You gon’ take me outta here.” He said, “I’ll take you to the store, you can hitchhike on back into town.” He took me to Cherry Lake general store, I went on back, that was how it happened then. A few weeks later—

	W:	Remind me, is Cherry Lake north of Pinetta or south?



	L:	You remember Cherry Lake is on the equivalent side, and then Pinetta is on the Valdosta side. Valdosta road, you got me?

	W:	Yep.



	L:	And Rockeford is in the middle. W:	Okay.

	L:	In the middle of the road heading north. So you see what happened there, I told you where I was. Pinetta, I’m coming back to school. My hands got cold, he





wouldn’t take me, and I went back into town. So now I’m at the Hale Store now. A few months, a week later on. So this guy come up Joe Bohan, I’ll never forget, a White guy, blond. “Hey, we need a few men out here working on Interstate 10,” and it’s right by the waterfall where we was working for Pittman, the county commissioner. Thirty years before, and he say it’s gonna be an interstate through here, right where we was at. I say, “Yeah, I’ll work,” because it’s getting a little warmer now. So I go out there and start building the culvert from the waterfall where we used to work in tobacco, straining tobacco under the oak tree, and I built the first covert there, that big man culvert, that’s where the water go from one side of the road to the other.

	W:	How’d you do it? Just shovels, or what did you use to?



	L:	No, what would happen we got a dragline the same guy, Joe, who come and got me, the White guy, he dragline Joe. You’d go out there and you’d dam up where the stream running already, because you gonna run a road there. You would dam it up on both sides and then what you do, you go in and dig at the proper elevation for the waterflow, it’s engineering.

	W:	Bulldozer or? L:	Dragline.

	W:	Describe the dragline.



	L:	Dragline has got a big table and it’s got a big bucket scoop, so it scoops dirt out and it could fill in the thing.

	W:	Were you operating that? L:	Joe was doing that.





	W:	What were you doing?



	L:	What I was doing, I was the engineer dogman, labor man, that’s what I do, I go in and set up the forms. You got steel formed, Mr. J. Heal, all these guys work for

J. Heal, JD, it’s amazing. J’s got the work for him; he’s helped me in my life. So anyway, I would go and get the forms and set ‘em up, then you get the steel with the big truck load it off, and then you cut the steel and bring it down there.

	W:	How would you cut the steel?



	L:	You got a power saw. It’s like a— W:	A saw can cut steel?

	L:	Mmhmm, if you put the right blade on it. It’ll cut it. And then you bend it and then you got these dogs that’s pen, Mr. J, Heal, he started it, the old man, that’s Joe’s dad who work for his son now. His daddy is probably back in the [19]30s, I guess, before World War II, between World War II and World War I, working for the state contracting. And that pen, you put it down with the hammer to lock that for ‘em in place so the form will go up like this, and then you build another one.

You got the inside wall and the outside wall. So in between, you got the steel in, that number 9, half-inch steel, and you would get that mud and as soon as the truck come, you pump it in there like a liquid form of mud and then you let it get hard and then you go back in and you wreck it. That’s the trick, when you go and wreck it, it could be that rain and you let that water fill it, you go in there to wreck it, that marker still in there. He got no lines; you could see him. And some of them markers pretty mean, they’ll fight you. But that’s what my job was.

	W:	Were you making more money than at Osmos?





	L:	Yeah, I was making a little more, yeah.



	W:	So Monroe, I got to tell you, I guess when you get to be sixteen or fifteen they pay you more money, but I remember working at S&S store when I was thirteen and I was making either a dollar thirty-five or a dollar sixty an hour, how were you making two seventy-five? They just paid better, I guess.

	L:	When I was out there, you got a state contractor. But you was doing that at seventeen.

	W:	No, I was thirteen at S&S Food Store over in Lake City, that’s where— L:	But you’re talking about a couple years later, now me, now. In [19]72.

	W:	Yeah, by [19]72—okay, you’re right, I guess they raised the minimum wage. L:	Oh, yeah. They kept raising now.

	W:	But I remember I got a job in 1970 or [19]71 and I was making a dollar sixty an hour.

	L:	And listen to this right here, even after I did all this work for the government, serving all of our counties and all that, making all that big money, [inaudible 1:57:43] and that’s a whole ‘nother check by itself, so expensive. I come out in my engineering training right here in Gainesville, I wanna make three dollars an hour and that made me wanna quit, when the guy loan me that money after I worked for three weeks. I was only making three, he was getting $1.50 an hour when the state pay $1.50. And that’s what I was mad about, too, when I quit the program.

	W:	So how much were you making working on I-10? L:	I told you I was making about $2.70.





	W:	When you say you were making $2.75 at Osmos, but more there on the— L:	Yeah, well Osmos might’ve been $2.25.

	W:	That makes more sense. So how long did you work on I-10?



	L:	I worked on there for another year, you remember, because I said that’s what I’m leading out to now. I’m about to get put in jail.

	W:	We’re about to get to the jail part of it, but where’s Leesburg come in? L:	After I built Interstate 10, you remember, I went—

	W:	This is after the jail part? L:	Yeah, I went back.

	W:	So you had already finished only one year at Madison at that point? L:	One year at Madison college? IN tenth grade, yeah.

	W:	And finished the eleventh grade. L:	Started.

	W:	You quit, okay. And so you’re working there and I wanna get to the jail part because that’s important, it’s how you got involved in this whole system that’s really changed your life. We’ll get to that. So a year, you got as far as Jacksonville working all the way from Madison to Jacksonville?

	L:	Yeah, I built Interstate 10 from Jefferson County, which is Monticello, because I was going on the other side of Madison and bringing the line on in from Jefferson County all the way to Jacksonville, Glen Saint Mary.

	W:	So you got as far as Glen Saint Mary.



	L:	Yeah, so then that was as far as his contract went, J. Heal.





	W:	I wanna ask you a question Monroe, there’s something that they do here and it’s called memory studies, a lot of what you’re saying here, it’s important how you see it now and you saw it then. So I want to ask you a question. When you were going to Glen Saint Mary, were you much of a historian then? Did you know what Glen Saint Mary meant as far as the Battle of Valdosta and how the troops were coming in or did you find that out later?

L:  When we was going through Sanderson, which is kind of close to Valdosta, we was finding relics and different stuff. And you was hearing about this—plus, like I say I’m a historian already anyway.

W:   You already knew about the Battle of Valdosta?



L:   Yeah.



W:   That’s what I wanted to get to.



	L:	And I learned a little more as I started going in there because I got a couple of churches out designing in that area.

	W:	Later, years later. But back in, we’re talking about [19]72, you know a little bit about it and you’re finding artefacts but you really hadn’t studied up on it much.

	L:	Not really, because it’s where the history is at. We’re going through this historic place in Valdosta.

	W:	Okay and so what about that job before we get to it—We talked about this before, about when you got arrested and I want to get to that, but is that what made you stop working on the interstate? Did you get to Sandersonville and that’s as far as you were gonna go or Glen Saint Mary, or did the criminal thing interfere with it? What made you stop working?





	L:	Well as I said, the Glen Saint Mary was the end of the contract that he had for doing [Interstate] 10. But then he had another one to go to the Georgia line and do [Interstate] 75 all the way to Miami, too.

	W:	And they were telling you you could work for that contractor to start up there, you were planning on doing it.

	L:	Like I say, he was the same country, J Heal. But we back there now, started [Interstate] 75—

	W:	So before you got in trouble with the law, you started on I-75? L:	Yeah.

	W:	Okay, I didn’t know that, go ahead.



	L:	That’s what happened. As I said, that was so extraordinary about it. When I got down to Leesburg, I was with this bridge master they call him, that mean when they pour the bridge, the concrete, you got little bubbles in them, take the forms down, there’s a little owl bubble you can see, it’s not smooth. So our job, his job, was when he trained me to go in and make it smooth and get a good inspection when the state guys come out there. That’s when the guy get paid, when they give the okay. So I’m riding with him when we get to Leesburg. So we go in this restaurant—

	W:	How long did it take you to get from the Georgia line to Leesburg, doing all that work?

	L:	Well see, what happened is, you remember, when we first started the Georgia line, I stayed in Lake City, y0ou remember I told you that. And so we worked form Lake City, from the Georgia line, all the way to so far back Lake City, and then





you always estimate how much time you’ll spend driving up to work, and you’ll move online. So we got so far down, to close to Leesburg, the other side of Gainesville, then we moved on. Because I did Gainesville from Lake City.

	W:	how long did it take you, how many months of work, before you got from the Georgia line to Gainesville?

	L:	We did pretty good, I’d guess three because that’s what I’m getting to now. Listen to this. So between January first, knocking off from Osmos, and about March, getting in that Interstate 10, I’m assessing it now, and so by the time June come, because that’s where I’m about to get arrested, June, so I guess we moved pretty fast, about ninety days. Boy, we was moving pretty fast now that I look at it. That’s a lot of work. I went out to Louis Cook, that’s where I was at when you asked me. The bridge master, the guy lower than me, he was a player—

	W:	Before you get into that, when did they start having you inspect for the bubbles?



Was that on I-75 or?



	L:	Had to inspect for what?



	W:	The bubbles in the concrete.



	L:	Oh that was me working with this Louis Cook guy. W:	But that was on [Interstate] 75, not I-10?

	L:	Yeah, I started being a specialist with him.



	W:	Now at that point you still weren’t using your drone—



	L:	Every now and then he would get me still on [Interstate] 10 too to come with him. W:	But you’re not using your drawing, it’s all essentially labor work.

	L:	Right, but I have a business on the side.





	W:	Okay, so go ahead.



	L:	So Louis Cook and I went to this restaurant and I’ll never forget it. We order collard greens, cornbread, fried chicken—

	W:	Where was that restaurant?



	L:	Pine Street. In Leesburg. So this chick, per say, girlfriend, evidently she tried to poison him. And he switched place with me. I get the poison. So I’m dying in Leesburg, so I call my dad down, “Daddy,” I told him what kind of shape I was in. He said, “Old man, get on the bus and come home.”

	W:	Tell me why your dad called you old man?



	L:	I also tried to figure it out but I say he thought I was gonna be an old man, he thought I was smart. Then he said something to my stepdaddy, in latter days, he used to work with my dad in the city. He had no idea he married my mom, and he had no idea. Him and my daddy was friends, matter of fact, and he said my dad was bragging to him or talk to him about his little son, the little Black one called Monroe. Say, “I can’t lay a hammer down nowhere, I think he’ll be a carpenter or something.” He always stealing something. He had no idea, he could be an architect. Whatever my stepdaddy say, my daddy would be talking about me, how smart I was, to him.

	W:	When did he start calling you old man? How old were you when he started calling you that?

	L:	Well, it’s as I can remember because like I say, we made that wine one time and I stole his wine. I went off and got some, so I guess, I can remember about seven years old, six years old. And that’s what I think about too, because his





granddaddy was Blacker than me, from what I understand, Calvin Lee. He’s Blacker than me, Black as tar. Because I asked Mr. Haynes about it, he lived to be a hundred and seventeen years old so he knew my granddaddy real good. I said, “Mr. Haynes, what color was? Was he Black?” He said, “What you say?!

Black as midnight, Calvin Lee.” So anyway, Louis Cook switched place with me. So I’m dying down there, so I call daddy, he say, “Old man, come home.” So I got up on the trailer bus, crawled up on the trailer bus and made it home.

	W:	This is about May or June of [19]72?



	L:	Yeah, about June, had to be the first part of June or last part of May for sure. And I made it home, he say he put home remedies on me. He was like a homemade doctor himself. Home doctor. And he got me living until Monday, he took me to Benítez, that was a Spanish doctor, and I had a larger naval when I was born—

	W:	Was there one doctor in Madison then or was there more than one?



	L:	There was more than one, he was a surgeon though or some kind of—my daddy liked him.

	W:	Did they have a hospital in Madison then? L:	Yeah.

	W:	Okay.



	L:	The Confederate one you was talking about before, it was the first one and then they built the other one later on, Frederick Hospital, you know, the Civil War. Well anyway, okay, now where I’m at now… Benitez, the guy where the poison was, he told my daddy and I that I had a hernia, I guess they were living in big farms, too and having that large neighbor so he went in and corrected that, supposedly.





I had a bandage on me, so at the same time as I was saying, I got this bandage on me and I’m sitting on the poolroom shoe shiner stand—

	W:	You’re eighteen years old? L:	Yeah.

	W:	Okay.



	L:	And I see this—Well, let me back up a little bit. I had learned that my brother had sister had did me so bad, the Red ones, the lighter-skin ones, telling lies on my left. My mom went back to stay with my dad in the turpentine still the last year or two before we moved from over there. So, I had ran across—because the White kids had it in college—marijuana. So I had to find out that when I smoked a little marijuana, I could forget about my troubles. You know, my brothers and sisters. So, I was smoking a little bit. So one day my brother Al come over. I didn’t offer him any, I just told him. But I made him swear he wasn’t gonna tell.

	W:	How did people get marijuana back then? Just grow it?



	L:	It’s White students, yeah, that’s my first time seeing it. The White students had it. W:	They sold it to you?

	L:	Alfred Bigs, he was the Bigs Funeral Home monopoly son, grandson, whatever.



So he got caught with a—



	W:	That’s a White funeral home?



	L:	Yeah. I think they’re Italians too. They caught him with a cigar box full, and they spanked his hands. Slapped his hands, you know, his mom and dad had a lot of money, they paid him out. But there go us Black guys, they said that the guys sold it to us because it’s free matchboxes. They had it in a matchbox back in





those days. So you’d get a box of matches, take all the matches out, put the little marijuana and five dollars in ‘em. So they come back to me, they told me, said, “You’re in possession, you know in this right here, tell us about these guys,”

	W:	So this is in Madison? L:	Right, yeah.

	W:	Was an agent from Gainesville?



	L:	J.J. Miller, narcotic investigator. He got his pimp. So the pimps, now they coming up to people still running their mouths—

	W:	Was J.J. Miller White or Black?



	L:	White, had to be White guy, seemed like. So he would bust people in surrounding counties and he would take them same people like they always did and turn them on the other people. You tell on him; you get some information on these boys in Madison—

	W:	So they would use him in a different county because no one knew— L:	Exactly right.

	W:	Okay.



	L:	So they come in that county because they target it, certain Blacks, that’s who you target here because we wanna find out what they doing. So they come in town like fooling around the yard with me, fumbling around to so and so [inaudible 2:09:19] and grab these different people so, they dead now but that’s what they using they names like, you know, these people is all right, just to get your guard down. But anyway, like I said, weeks before that happened, my brother had come over so—





	W:	Which brother?



	L:	Alton, the one that look almost White, who look more like my daddy. So I made him swear he wasn’t gonna tell what I’m gonna tell him, and he sweared he wouldn’t. And when he left, some would say, and we had a thing called slop jaws, slop jaws is a little bucket with a lid on it, you use it at night when you can’t get out the house, when it’s raining, when you have the kid, the one that don’t like to take it out. “It’s your time to take the slop jar out!” And you wash it out, clean it out, put bleach in it, make it smell good, turn it upside down, let the sun out so it be fresh, the next night you bring it in.

	W:	So you used that as a toilet?



	L:	Yeah, in the house. But when it get old then you not gon’ use it, you throw it away. So I would find those and use them as a pot growing pot because it got a hole in it. So I got my little plants growing in it, so I showed Al, my brother, what I had, and he swear he wasn’t gonna tell. But that Monday, I’m laying up listening to Jimi Hendrix in the bed—

	W:	Okay, are you still recovering from your poisoning?



	L:	No, this was just before I got busted now. And a knock come on the door, I get up, there’s my mom, she leading it, the Black police, first Black police on the force, Pete Marbley, and the White police. And they run up in there with my mama, “Tommy!” That’s my nickname. “Boy, you answer, you got that dope growing in here?” And they said they gon’ search the house and look for it. And my mama said, “How that dope look growing?” And the White officer said, “It look like tomato plants.” He said it’s like tomato plants, that’s it. I had them moved,





they couldn’t find nothing. So I ran off down in the woods, because I’m mad now, going to my dad’s house, disturb me, I’m not bothering nobody. So Al, my brother, reckoned they were gonna run me down. I got—you know they never saw me lost a fight, so I got in the woods, far enough in the woods, the police couldn’t see, my mom couldn’t’ see. I turned around like a dog and start growling at ‘em. They know I’m dangerous then, they took off running. They left me alone. I stayed in the woods long enough for ‘em to leave, and then the next week, there’s the same guys wanna know about me. He wanted me to hold something for him. I said, “Nah, I can’t do that man.” So between that and that, my name got mixed up in the bunch. So when they come up there on that shoeshine stand where I was at in that car, the Black police and White police—

	W:	What do you mean shoeshine stand? What is that? L:	That’s where you sit and get your shoes shined at. W:	So you were—?

	L:	Sitting up there—hold on—at a poolroom. It’s where you used to get your shoes shined but it’s not operation now. I’m just sitting there, playing, as they say, chilling. So police drove up, the same Black police who come to my house a week or two before. And he got a heavy voice, “Monroe, I wanna talk to you a minute.” I got on down and walked up there to him. In that house, went in the back and everything, and man, I said, “Yes sir?” He say, “Monroe Lee, on the 20th day of June 1972, delivered twenty grams of cannabis sativa, better known as marijuana—” I said, “What?!” Boy, I wanted to run man but left like if they send a person down he gon’ leave the Earth. And I got money in the bank so I





just realized I couldn’t run, so I got in the car. They didn’t handcuff me. Drove around to my daddy’s—

	W:	Now is this when you’re home recovering from your--?



	L:	Yeah, I still had the bandage on my stomach from the poisoning, from Leesburg. So they put me in the car, went all around there, my daddy, he take these VCs, good headache product, drink his malt beer, that’s his thing after work. He come up to the car, he lean over in there. “Oh man,” he said, “I told you about them boys you hanging with, didn’t I?” I just hold my head down. He done told me about that crew I was hanging with, them boys, them pimps and all that. So he said, “Go on with ‘em now, I’ll see what I can do for you.” So I went on to jail, lil’ Tommy Green was down there in jail with this—they put me on the television and everything, look like.

	W:	So did you know Tommy Green then, or you just know who he was? L:	We lived in his daddy house.

	W:	Right, okay.



	L:	You know, in [19]58, turpentine still. He was just coming the news. W:	So did he own the newspaper or did his dad own the newspaper?

	L:	He did not own it. He had bought in in [19]63, his dad just was a hustler.



Bathroom break. Let me get a bathroom break.



	W:	Let’s do that. [Break in interview] So Monroe, I noticed something that I’ve read in these court pleadings that you’ve filed, that you do something they used to do in the nineteenth century. That’s on every page you’ll kind of at the top of the page you’ll put a summary of what was on the last page so people will remember what





there was. So I’m gonna do that with you. Where we were when we took a break was you were talking about having been arrested and having been in jail and that’s where we are, we’re starting there. And having heard this story before, I also know that that was a crucial point in your life that put you on a road to good things that happened. So I wanna start asking you where we left off and you take it from there and you say as much as you want about what happened and then I’ll fill in some things if you miss ‘em. So you were put in jail by a Black Madison police officer, arrested you based on what an undercover agent from Gainesville—

	L:	Correct, and just to reflect a little bit, I’ll also give you a preview because I like to give you details so you can see the picture. I had been talked to a month or so before the arrest by the same Black police officer, and with him, per say, he had a job to do is to get the arrest served, warrant served. The JJ Miller, the White guy, was with him in the car. But he’s the one that had to find and locate me. “I know where Monroe Lee hang out, I know who he is, I know his parents,” that’s the Black police job, is to get there and make contact with me. So now like I said, they had talked to me, he and another police officer, prior to the arrest because before they, the boys, made a contact with the narcotic informants, pimps, in [19]72, my mama come to me because she heard I was maybe drinkin’ the dope. She didn’t know the drinking marijuana, it was smoking it, but they say drinkin’ it. They didn’t know. So anyway, that’s what I was saying, so they come and get me. So at the time I stopped, they was taking pictures of me as I got to the jail.

So come to find out, [19]72, the Vietnam War was raging, Black guys killed,





they’ll send ‘em home in boxes. And that’s why the Black Panthers was active, brothers, being Black Panthers, and they was killing them off here and there. So they didn’t wanna be fooling with no Black Panthers, because if you gon’ work for the government, you wasn’t gonna mess with the Black Panthers. Matter of fact, years later on they asked me about that, too. No, no, no. But anyway—

	W:	I’m gonna interject one thing just because I’ve heard this before. There are times when—everybody does this when you’re remembering something—there are facts and then there are what you believe may have been going on. Let’s give an example, you had told me that you thought that they were trying to get you to— not so much to put you in jail but to get you to inform on somebody else. Now, those kinds of things, if you’re saying something that you believe but it’s not something you saw or observed, if you can make a distinction. You know, this is—I was Monroe, I was arrested, this is what they did. Now, if you know for a fact that someone said, “We’re trying to get you to give information on someone else,” that’s fine. Anything you’ve got, say, but try to—for the people who are watching this, to know what you know for a fact and what you’re surmising.

	L:	Well, see, this is what basically happened. I found this out all now. This is what I think, back to progress again, everything that happened to me that I’m telling you about, it’s all the work of Jesus Christ. What I’m saying, he made everything come out to make me the person I am, because sometimes a young man is going down the road, gets destructive, because he don’t know it—What I’m saying—what my instruction was. I trusted everybody else. My dad used to be telling me, “Old man, those boys you hanging with no good. They daddies was





pimps.” So I’m thinking because my daddy half White, that’s why he don’t like these guys that are per say Black guys. I’m his son that’s Black, God, I just can’t get that. And that’s what make it so plain now in stuff that I see, the abusive, that’s why my dad was so adamant about, “Get home on time, be here where I can give an account of you,” but I’m on the streets all the time at night. Look, I know, what’s the thing that happened to him but still with this jail thing. So what I’m saying to you, your question, is this here. Due to the fact my daddy mom knew already what science it was about, the four hundred, five hundred years we had been here already, knowing how the Black man in World War I, he be your friend but he tell everything you doing or saying because he’s a pimp, informant, of the time. So that what he was telling me but I don’t wanna believe this because these people here, who they telling me are pimps, these are the Black guys. I’m too good to them for them to do me like my daddy and momma said they could do me. So my daddy and momma had this wrong, even about the White people who they telling me that some of these White people, they don’t like you boy, and you don’t know who it is. In your face, they smiling, but they will be the same ones put that rope around your neck the next day. I mean, that’s what you heard all your life so I just didn’t think that White people could be that bad.

And the Black people either, because I’m thinking if I treat everybody right, I’m a man of God, I really thought I was a man of God, reading my Bible, treat ‘em right, I ain’t trying to do this to nobody child, this. I just do it right, everybody gon’ like me. But that’s not true. So now, back to the question, so the way the system is set up—and it’s every time, every property. And it’s my job as a preacher to tell





these people. It’s a man, most of ‘em gonna be a White man, a European, no matter what country you’re from, and it’s some light-skin Black guys who they kids by the Black woman, they gave them a business. They selling the chestnuts, my dad bloodline, like my dad. But my dad a different type of that, my dad still had to work in the woods. Pulp wood, log woods, because that’s what his African bloodline was. He didn’t get it because he was a yellow or red man, they gave him some breaks, but he had to work. So now what daddy was telling me was somebody ain’t gon’ like you right up under you, so you acting all this streets, all this stuff with this weed, marijuana, some of these boys gonna be pimps because their parents was pimps. When the police catch them—that’s the catch, that’s the question—they gon’ let them go because they pimps from way back and the White man remember he helped them get some dirt way back, that some boy granddaddy. So he gon’ be lighter on him, like the other boy, Fern Brown.

Vietnam veteran era, they told him to leave town, go to Seaburn, he died in Seaburn. They just turned him out, they said, “Don’t come to Madison to stay.” Because he was from that bloodline, but he must’ve been an all right dude, now. And that’s the way it goes. So my mom and them, all that was trying to shield me from that. So now I’m in jail, 1972, Tommy Green took my picture up on the news. “Black Youth Arrested in Madison for the Sale of Drugs,” dope. It wasn’t nothing but marijuana, but the White guy, Biggs, had been put in jail with a cigar box full. His parents owned Biggs Funeral Home and he walked. But here the Black boys got a matchbox, and that make the law so scared now. The same law, eighteen at eight hundred where they prosecuting me right now, in a city





called Gainesville-Alachua, the same law. It’s like every other law, believe me audience, every law that’s in place is gonna affect the poor and minorities way beyond any other race and factor. And that’s because that’s the way society built up. The White man, they say, that mean the European per say as a whole, even though there’s good Europeans, my granddaddy was one, they wanna do right. But it’s that other crowd over there and that’s what make this thing so deadly and I pray for the peoples on it. They put a fear in this little crowd over here, “We gotta stop the Black man, we gotta stop the Spanish, they gon’ take over, it’s gonna be less of us over here.” But all that’s to get your money, all that’s to use you. And then they turn right around, make a sandwich and they got something to say to you. Or they got this problem to say to you. That’s what it’s all about, marketing. But some people don’t get that. They gon’ hate this. Now look at me, sorry, you can blame me, I’ll get back to it, I’m still in jail. But the police, this right here, it’s peoples out here to use you and abuse you. They the big man sitting up here like the moonshine daddy, some daddy moonshining. The big man, like the sheriff, know he getting his cut, but his deputies beating a man in the head, put him in jail every chance they get. The Black man gon’ suffer every time a law be made. But just amazing, so all I said, as a preacher, you got to turn to God. But now I’m in jail. Mom and daddy, they ain’t gon’ get me out. I got money in the bank, a businessman, they know I got money. “Don’t get him ma, he outta know better than to be with that crew,” yeah I should’ve known better! Life went on. So I stayed in jail two weeks, my uncle James McDaniel, God rest him, he’s a Libra like me and Jimmy Carter, he come down there and got me out. He said, “Son I





gonna get you out the jail, they don’t want me to get you out yet but you got the money in the bank, I don’t see no reason why you got to sit there.” I said, “All right.” But while I was in jail—y’all don’t hear this now—God blessing, Cane Floyd Osborn. He said to Mr. Franklin one time, “I don’t know.” But this is what he told me, he saw me come in jail. He said, “Little buddy,” he said, “When I was in jail, I’d like someone like you.” I said, huh? He said, “You just what I’d take under my wing.” I said, “No man I’m a straight man.” He laughed at me. But anyway, he say, what happened to you? I said, “Man, they got me in jail for selling dope.” He said, huh? He said, “Boy now you in trouble. I’m gonna tell you something, the good money your best hope,” this is redneck now but this is what he said, “These peckerwoods here, they coming at you boy because you up and coming. You a Black man.”

	W:	This a White man talking to you or a Black man?



	L:	Black man. Cane Floyd Osborn. World War II veteran, matter of fact. I’m gonna tell you, he died right here in Gainesville. This in Gainesville I’m at, yeah? He said, “I got a death sentence at Leavenworth,” you know, that’s the Army place out there. And back in the day, they was hanging ‘em, this was the [19]40s. He had killed a White man; some bad White man was coming to kill him. And he say, “They had the rope around my neck,” but he say, “They got a red phone over there before they drop you.” He said, “You could see it through the glass, and that guard, that red phone.” And he said the guard, whatever guard that was, called in just before they dropped him. He gave him a reprieve. I said, “What?”





He said, “They took the rope off my neck and turned me out to the Army. I said, “Wow!” I was just about to go down myself, and sure enough—

	W:	Now we’re talking about 1972?



	L:	Yeah, he said what happened to him. W:	Governor Ruben Askew him?

	L:	Yeah, Governor Ruben Askew, yeah. So I sent a letter out to Governor Askew to send me out of the jail because by that time, what happened, they let me go to college and high school—no, not yet. But when I got a chance, after two weeks I become a trustee. That meant I feed the other prisoners, get the food from the hotel, go out and wash the police cars and all like that. So I had access all around. So now what happened is I sent the letter to Governor Askew, sure enough. And he asked about the first car, so now while I’m out on bond, for the weed, like I said, 1972, around about September, Raymond Jones, who got a baby on my sister, I told you about his stepdaddy brother get burned up in a house. Okay, so he got this Ford Falcon—

	W:	Is Raymond Jones somebody in Madison?



	L:	Yeah, Raymond Jones here in Madison. He got a baby by my sister, two. Two kids by my sister, and I have a son by his cousin, Diane. So anyway, now the man got burned up so he had the Falcon outside his house parked, he was buying it from Mr. Reagan, white guy that people didn’t mind up in Madison. So I went to him and took my daddy, the half-White cat, down there. They talked and he made a deal to pay him off and let me go in and get the car, because that





what they told me to do. His family told me if I go there and pay it off, if Mr. Reagan—

	W:	Explain to me what you mean. What does paying off the car have to do—



	L:	Well, the man got burned up in the house, you remember. He owned the car; he was making payments on it. So all I got to do is finish paying Mr. Reagan, the White man who he bought it from, the rest of the money. And that’s what made my half-White daddy—and then talk to Mr. Reagan.

	W:	Does this have to do with you being in jail?



	L:	Yeah, because like I say, I got to jail—So when I drive over to my stepdad’s Moonlight Café, he said, “Tom, what you doing?” I said, “I just bought me a car.” He said, “You gon’ get some time, you going to court in October,” you know for this crime. So I said, “No, I’m gonna get probation.” He said, “You don’t know that.” And we got to court, that’s what you was asking, Don Dandy shows up, this young White kid, he’s from Perry.

	W:	Now, is he a lawyer?



	L:	Yeah, a young Civil Rights lawyer or something like that. Like you, I’d say, because he’s hardy guy. In court, he was a pretty nice guy. I’ll tell you what he said. This prosecutor, I remember, he called my momma on the stand, that’s what I’m telling you now. I remember things vividly. They had my mom as a witness, at the time they say the undercover agents got the weed, I was supposed to get the weed out, return it there. My momma say no, I was over at her house, so momma don’t understand that prosecutor—

	W:	So you’re at trial?





	L:	Yeah. Yeah, that courthouse, that same courthouse I saw that picture you showed me just now, Madison County, right on US-90.

	W:	Who is representing you? Do you have a public defender? Who is the lawyer?



	L:	I got a public defender, yeah. But he was the prosecutor I’m telling you about now. He walk in the floor between the juries, right? They got one old Black man juror, the rest of ‘em White folks. Say, “Yeah, this little young man Monroe Lee, he’s not the kind uses dope, go in the woods and smoke it. He sells it. And if he sells it, he’ll sell it to your kids, my kids, anybody kids. If you can’t give him some time, give my grandmama some time.” [Laughter] He’s up there as a witness, and he start hollering at my momma, “You said he was there, now you not gonna—.” I said, “Wait a minute. Get my momma off that stand and don’t you say another word to her.” They took my momma down, but we goin’ in the corner now. I asked my cousin, I said, “Man what you think? You’ll get probation man, we end up being in trouble.” Jack say, “I hear him talking about giving us five years at Rayford.” I said “What? I ain’t never been in no trouble!” He say, “I ain’t either.” He had a job with Gold Kiss, the poultry factory in Live Oak, across the river. He had good work, he had been there ten years already probably. So that Don Dandy got up and stood up—

	W:	So Don Dandy was in court, he’s an assistant general counsel for Governor



Ruben Askew, he came to your trial.



	L:	Yeah, some type of way. I used to work for him some type of way. So he told ‘em the governor sent me here and Royce Agner, that was the judge—

	W:	Is this trial taking place in Madison?





	L:	Yeah, but he was a circuit judge, he was in town from Perry but he ran the circuit.



He and I got to be tight just like this here, he crazy about me before he died. Because I went and talked to him, if I worked for the government and all that. Talked to Judge Dean too, they was crazy about me over there. There was some people that just didn’t like me. Anyway, as I said, Don Dandy was up in court now, telling them, the judge, the governor sent me here to see about this Monroe Lee here. What the governor said he’d like to see take place here, let Mr. Lee continue to go to high school in the daytime, and to the college on the dual enrollment program, but the only caveat is he’ll go back to jail at night for six months and learn how to stay out of bad company. So they sentenced me October 17th, [19]72 to April 17th, I got a month time off. So I did April 17th 1973, that May I finished high school, 1973. July 13th, 1973, I finished college. All of ‘em in three months, junior high school and college. And within a year time the federal government had me, take me all over the world.

	W:	How did you get that job with the federal government? L:	Oh, that’s quite amazing story.

	W:	Before you do that, what did you finish at college? Was it drafting? Was that what you were working on?

	L:		Yeah, you know, I told you about Mr. Miley in that earlier segment, Mr. Miley, masonry contractor took me up to Mr. Swain and I was flunking, doing bad because I was doing it like I wanted to, my way, as they say. And Mr. Swain gave me a D, and then I went to B and then he convinced me to go back to high school. You remember, then I went and broke up and went to work for J. Heal





and all that, then got poisoned, all that. I told you about all that. Okay, where you at, you wanna go back to the jail thing?

	W:	No, I’m just asking how you got the job, did someone approach you about giving you the job with the federal government?

	L:	Oh, yeah. I was fixing to head up to it but you asked for details so I went to that.



So what happened after I got out of jail, you remember, it’s [19]73. So in less than two years, I remember I tell you I worked for the government. So, between those two years, I was contacted tobacco, or paint houses, draw blueprints with my own little business, anything legal, I would do it. Pull roots, breaking up fields.

	W:	This was before you went of jail or after? L:	After I went to jail.

	W:	Okay, so you get out in [19]73, you’re doing work contracting for the government?

	L:	I’m doing everything. I’m drawing blueprints, you remember, still, for churches and houses to be built. Also, I’m painting houses and doing little odds and ends jobs, my own little business, nothing dishonest. So what I would do, I would get these Black kids out the community, young men too, grown men. And I would tell them, “You can make it by not selling drugs,” that’s what I’m showing them, because they had me for a false charge. You can do it without selling drugs, without robbing, stealing, and you just come with me. If you do a third of this work, I’m gonna give you a third of the money. If I make a thousand dollars a day, one day to day, you in the corner of the house, I’m gonna give you three fifty and I’ll take three hundred for the business accessories and I would take a third.





That’s what I was doing. But these guys still will find some way to rob me, set me up to be killed, just shoot. So the last people who tried to kill me is before this here, Bobby Gamble. He had me a [inaudible 2:32:53]. Leonard Hogg was a Vietnam veteran who is dead now, coincidentally. So Leonard come in, this is [19]74, I give him ten dollars an hour and all he want to eat and drink beer, whatever. And at the end of the day, I made a thousand dollars that day—

	W:	How’d you make the thousand dollars, Monroe?



	L:	Painting fences and houses and all, about four or five guys. I pay some ten dollars an hour, some eight. You know, they make more money than they ever made, that’s in [19]74. So after this boy is drinkin’—

	W:	So you’re about twenty years old?



	L:	Yeah. Right at it. He gets to drinking, he decide that he want a third of that money. And my street name is Fish. He drinking that Sliz Malt beer and whatever else he want, intoxicant. He said, “Fish, you ain’t do me right today. Fish, I should’ve got a third of that money.” Say, “Fish, I’m gonna kick your A-S-S—” keeping it clean. And I made up my mind that I wanted to do a little kidding this boy, just hitting me. This man, so he never did hit me. So I just started going to work by myself. No, it was one more deal before the government got me. Bobby Gamble was left, that’s who set me up, Bobby Gamble, you saw that, he’s still with me. So now Bobby Gamble, he’s with me, we come in and meeting a man named Mr. Willie Barnes, very unique gentleman, carpenter. Elderly man but he’s crazy about me, he knew I drew blueprints. He called everybody Claude.





“Claude, I just got—I know y’all boys,” you a grown man and he calling you a boy.

	W:	He called everybody Claude no matter what their name was?



	L:	Yeah, “Claude, you’re making that money, I know you are making that money. Man let me tell you something, I used to build a house over in Greenville for this lady—” it’s like this, he’s not gonna paint, I’m gonna tell you what it means now because I’m talking slang. But I’m gonna tell you the way he talk. He said, “I’ll build for a woman but I ain’t gon’ paint nan,” he’s not gon’ paint not one, that’s what that means. See, you got to know what the people saying now, I told you about that. So he said, “Y’all go in and paint this house,” so he gave us all the number. I went home that night proud that we had got a job in Greenville, gonna make this money. Bobby Gamble gets up early in the morning, gets all the boys, his brothers and friends, the same guy that probably want to kill me, Leonard.

They go paint the house, go to the White man, credit the paint, don’t pay anything, did the house, then give me a dime. So you know that’s the end of them there. Now I’m working by myself and I’m sad.

	W:	Greenville is west of Madison?



	L:	Yes, fourteen miles. Madison County. So what happened is God decided to work his Providence, I’m gon’ go into Perry, Highway 221, I see this government trucks, government tags, pulled off on the side of the road. So I pull along, punch the button—I remember it vividly—the station wagon, punched the buttons, that’s the gear shift. I pull in the side, little green station wagon, I got out and walked back. A young man, White guy, I say like Barney Rubble, you seen Barney





Rubble on the Flintstones, that’s what he look like, but as a man. Davie Crocket. I shook his hand. Said, “I’m Monroe Lee, I’m an architect.” He say, “Yeah?” I say, “What y’all doing?” He say, “We work for geographic survey.” I said, “Man, what I do to get on out here? I can draw blueprints.” He say, “Monroe,” he talked like a Southerner, “My God, you outta go on out there to Carry Campground in Madison, see Mr. Taylor,” Said, “He ready to retire, he might get you on.” I said, “Really? Carry Campground, 53 Highway? That’s the year I was born.” He say, “Yeah, go on over there.” So I go over this, this is Jim Taylor now, this White guy. [inaudible 2:36:32] He big though. He get ready to retire, he from California. “Yeah, what’s up Mr. Lee?” I said, “I’d like to have this job, Crocket told me y’all were over doing this and doing that. You been here about thirty, forty years yourself.” He say, “Yeah, I’m getting on out of the service.” He said, “I’m gonna call DC tomorrow, see what I can do for you.” So I went back in the pool and told the boys in there, Black and White, he gon’ call DC tomorrow and get me on.” Man, you’d think—so the next day I was hired, April 24, 1975, Geographic Survey. You don’t hear this, okay, next day I’m hiring. Now George Sol, again, he drink this coffee, like Mr. J, he’s gon on now but that man saved my life from stuff he told me. Watch this here, he drank coffee so hot that it’ll burn your finger if you stick it in there. He drink just that hot. But anyway, I’m sitting down, he said, “Lee, got your job here with the government. You been in trouble before?” Boy, my heart started pumping. Because I remember Paul Eddie, I come back from Leesburg for the Florida Power job and he didn’t give me that job, somebody told him I’d been in jail. So now I’m thinking, I’m fixing to have lost this





job if I tell this man I’ve been in jail. And I’m on probation, too. So I said, “No sir, I ain’t been in there.” He looked at me, he got them gator eyes, he’s a White man. “Lookie here,” that’s the way he talked. He said he from Madison, he say, originally, way back when he been with the government all these year in Valdosta but he see the same mess. Said, “See, you got this job now Lee.” “See, hear what you just told me, see if that’s a lie, might be a year from now that me walk up to you and say, ‘Lee, you put on this application that you’ve never been in jail or trouble’ but we see it in you, you’re fired. We ain’t got no use for a liar.” He say, “Now you better let me straighten this out now.” I said, “Yes, yes, yes.” [Laughter] I did right there. This is true. So he got it straightened out. I was good. He said that’s no problem. He say, if you do this job—he was a little worried— you do this upside a tree, he said, just do your job.

	W:	Monroe, I wanna ask you something that I actually don’t know about this in history. So you were convicted, was it a felony or a misdemeanor that you got convicted of?

	L:	They really got the verdict; it was a felony because it was a drug charge. But that’s what so amazing how God been to me to say that I run for president and all that two times.

	W:	But it couldn’t have been a federal charge because Judge Agner is a state judge.



So, you think it was a felony. And the reason I’m asking you this is because I know you’ve been involved in, as you said, you were a write-in candidate a couple times for governor. And obviously, you can vote. I’m just asking because I don’t know. It’s a big thing in the news now that there’s a constitutional





amendment to give people the right to vote if they have been convicted of a felony. Back in those days, could you vote? Would the felony interfere with your ability to vote or not?

	L:	I’m assuming it never did because I don’t think they made the law and that affect right then. But what happened is the federal government, like I told you, they got power. So when I told that guy the truth, he went up there to the probation office and told them, “We got him now. If he do what we say do, he ain’t gon’ mess with this.”

	W:	So did they take you off probation? L:	Exactly right, he killed everything. W:	You don’t know the voting thing.

	L:	They gave me full rights back. So if it was, if it was up until a year back— W:	Okay. And when was the first time you voted?

	L:	I probably started voting right about the time I turned eighteen, because local votes, my mom, she was adamant that Cherokee Indians—“Boy, you get down to that local board and you register!” Because she say, “You won’t get no job if you don’t do that.” So I was pretty much voting ever since. Some of them I didn’t vote, but you know, I kept my card, I went and registered. I never nothing to vote. I never been kicked back on either.

	W:	So you got a job with the Geographic Survey, and where did they take you for training?

	L:	You start working on the job, do what they say do. Mmhmm.



	W:	They weren’t using your drafting; they were having you do what?





	L:	I was first on the survey technician. See what happens, the government don’t tell you everything but they tell you enough to know what you’re doing. I was a specialist to get the field information that you give back to the top scientists of the world, and they could tell if the world was rising, sinking, a volcano gonna erupt, everything. All that’s the information I send them back to the office in Rockville.

	W:	Rockville, Maryland? L:	Mmhmm.

	W:	Okay, where is the first job you got? Where’d they send you to your first assignment?

	L:	My first mission was to survey north Florida and south Georgia. Madison,



Quipman, to Marvin, Georgia.



	W:	That was in [19]75? L:	Yeah, mmhmm.

	W:	Okay, where after that? Where’d they send you?



	L:	My next mission, when I stared getting paid PD, survey the Hudson Valley area, upstate New York, all that.

	W:	When did you go there? L:	June of 1975.

	W:	Okay. How long were you there?



L:  I was there until July. Professor Berry came up and gave me a special mission surveying the volcano over in Hawaii. Now, that was an extraordinary one. I was doing Highway Number 9, the Hudson Valley area, right? Vanegut Castle, Hyde Park, where Roosevelt were and all like that. Rhine country, [inaudible 2:42:07]





lived in Rhinebeck, but anyway, the people so nice, they didn’t care what color you were. They were so amazing to me. One day Professor Berry walk up to me, said, “Brother Lee, I hear you doing a fine job.” I say, “Thank you sir.” He said, “How’d you like to go to Hawaii?” I said, “Hawaii? Wow! That’s a mission?” He said yeah. I said, “What we gonna be doing over there?” He say, “Surveying a volcano. The largest one in the world.” I said, “Is it alive?” He said, “Yeah, we not supposed to lie to you. It’s alive.” I said, “Real lava in it?” He said, “Yes. It’s alive.” And I thought, I said, “Well God won’t—” I wasn’t preaching then, “He gon’ get you here on Highway Number 9, all these big trucks around all day and all this here.” I say, “I’ll take the mission.” So he say, “You on. You the best, number one man we got.” But that number two rod.

	W:	Can you explain to me what a number one man is? What did you do, specifically?

	L:	I was the best pacer, what that means is—and I may not brag, you obviously don’t say you brag—but I used to mainly say that God had gave me that. I could walk by the instrument man from the point I was on real site. Okay, the back site. That mean, when he gets passed by and came and set up, I can walk the distance from him to the next spot exactly on to the perfect order. Every time, without having a busted section. I was known for that, and they see how I did that.

	W:	So you put a rod in and then they come to the next--?



	L:	The main thing is the pacing. If you too far out, that mean you forty-five yards away from the back site and fifty-nine in the front, you know one of those cats are





off. You tell them to come back, they estimate so precise it’ll tell you, “He eight meters ahead where he should be.” And that’s wasting time.

	W:	I heard you got in trouble at North Florida Junior College for not using instruments, now you’re just pacing and you’re not getting in trouble for it? You’re not using the instruments?

	L:	Yeah, that’s what’s amazing, yeah. Intuition. That’s amazing. That’s about like the cane syrup by the field. There’s a cane, he got all this power, but somebody’s picking the corn and all, bringing to feed him. You see that? So without the information, no one could do nothing. Big boys up there, been to college, six years got master’s, they ain’t nothing but this little cotton-picker out there, getting this information. And it’s so amazing, you don’t hear this right here, and I guess I didn’t get scared until after it was all over. You know what they gave us when we was on that volcano? A little old meter, little meter box, right? And guess what it was called? And I should’ve caught on then. You know what it was?

	W:	No.



	L:	A gagger counter. W:	Oh yeah.

	L:	You know what that is? W:	Yes, I know.

	L:	Measuring the velocity of the lava vein that you walking on. [Laughter] W:	So July was when you went to Hawaii?

	L:	Right.





	W:	Now I’m just for people that are listening to this—you have rodmen that are behind you, you walk off the distance, they put the rods in, and you walk off the distance—

	L:	No, no. I carry the rod on my pen, now. On that survey mission we carried turtles. Turtles are three-point disk, got these little metal points on ‘em that sits like this. You don’t wanna ever sit on asphalt when asphalt get hot, it’ll melt it, it’ll cause a busted [inaudible 2:45:31] now sink so many centimeters, decimeters during the heat of the day. So we was using turtles because due to the lavas in the rock, you can’t just drop a pen to the ground, per say. Now, in the forest you can. You get up above when the fire caught us at, where the volcano caught fire, we just getting the lava flow. Lava flow means, you know, vegetation, but back down the volcano, you can kind of us a pen. But up in the—your turtle work all the way, yeah.

	W:	You had rodmen working with you or?



	L:	No, I was the rodman, I was the turtle man, I was the pacer. W:	You were it, okay, got it.

	L:	You got a recorder, that’s the man who write the figures down. And you got an instrument man, and you got number two and number one on rod.

	W:	Okay.



	L:	So a four-man crew, basically. But we was five men. W:	How far up the volcano did you start?

	L:	We go to the seep tower gauge at the Pacific Tower Gauge. W:	You start at the very bottom, at sea level?





	L:	Yeah, because see, the volcano is made from over the years, the volcanic eruption from the bottom of the ocean. So a mountain start growing from the bottom, so we measured the mountain from the ocean floor, but we start the [inaudible 2:46:44] because our ships told us how high it was above the ocean floor on their own. Ships do that in triangulation satellites and all that.

W:  How many feet high is the volcano? L:  Thirty-seven thousand five hundred. W:  Okay.

L:   About five miles up.



W:   So you start up in July, how long did it take you to get to the top?



	L:	We got there by October or less, probably October. Because see what happens is we got to get in and get out, and that’s what I was supposed to be doing last year when I got that mersa. I was coming from south Florida, organizing my crew, going back up the volcano again for my reintroduction tour, I should say. I was running for some office—I was gonna run for governor, so that’s what I was gonna do. But this mersa thing and these jobs I had ever since here, it’s amazing.

	W:	Well, we’ll get to that one. Back in Hawaii, you got to the top, right? L:	Yeah.

	W:	And what happened at the top?



	L:	Oh I tell you what happened before you got to the top. About halfway up, we just getting above the tree line as I was just telling you about, so I have this—not bragging again, it’s ordinary talent, gift, I don’t know what to say, somebody may





wanna say a curse, seeing things before it happens. But you can learn to use it. So I learned when I fell off that tree, that I could see things before it happened. So I had no idea this was gonna be it but then I started learning to watch it. So when I went to that volcano, I knew I was on death’s edge all the time, being on a volcano. So I prayed all along, I said, “Lord, if I’m that one that you say I got that power, I need you to work with me now to get off this volcano and make it back to Madison alive.” So like he told me I would. So one night, I had this vision that it was gonna come. So that morning, we were standing here at in Hilo, Holly Street Apartments in Hilo, Hawaii—H-I-L-O—and I told Davie Crocket, that morning we had a friend with a station wagon, because you could rent anything you wanted on the island. And he got a Ford Galaxy. I said, “Crocket, you know how I see things before it happen sometimes?” I said, “I’m sure this one right.” I had a vision it’s gonna go today, it’s gonna catch fire today. He said, “By God, Monroe,” that’s Crocket, say, “We government Marines, we goin’ up there as far as we can. We gonna finish this mission up.” I said, “Okay Crocket, I ain’t got no problem man. Okay, just watch what I tell you.” And sure enough, about three o’clock, I can see it now, smell it now, I walked past the rock down and facing back to the instrument, and this—you get so high on the mountain, you going around and you going up, you can see at lower elevation, seven thousand feet. I said, “Crocket, check it out!” He the one had the instrument, he swung it ‘round.

He said, “By God, it is on fire.” [Laughter] That’s the way he talked. And I said, “Let me look.” I looked, man, that fire was coming up. So Bill Sims—that’s the big man over Crocket, he got on up the radio because they gave him a radio when





he come up there. Call him, I said, “Pull aside the helicopter,” so they called in to the Hilo Observatory. Jack, now Jack is a White guy. He would fly right into the volcano. Yeah. Single-engine plane he was going on. Jack in the port, say “Yeah.” I say, “It’s burning at elevation,” so and so and so. Say, “We advise y’all stay put.” But them White guys, they start walking back down when trees start falling. I think I tart preaching then. “Don’t y’all go down there when—” “Don’t y’all know those trees are—” so finally they realized that I was telling the truth. I went to a lava flow, a rock, that’s a rock where the lava got hard at. And I decided I’d stay there, because if I became burnt up there, you know, on that rock. So they came, find out where I was at. So about eleven o’clock, about nine helicopters dropped some direction out, cigarette stuff and all of that. I trade my cigarettes for some of the other candy and stuff they gave us. But it got about eleven o’clock, a man went down in a fire engine, they would find them yet. Yeah. So there you go.

	W:	So what happened to the rest of you? L:	The rest of who?

	W:	The crew. Oh, that was some other time in the past with that fire engine.



	L:	No, it was that night. That morning it cooled down; we could come down. We couldn’t come that night, the helicopter dropped us a receiver.

	W:	So you never got to the top?



	L:	Yeah, we got to the top. We went on back and finished the mission up, but we was going up. So the fire happened behind us, but when we walked back down we saw that devastation where that happened behind us. But we was up there,





we got a rock where I ran to. We just had got to the rock, yeah. That was so amazing, too. Right after then, we was getting a redhead, that’s like being on the moon, it’s true. And last time we coming out, we went up there, that red joker Moore, he’s dead now come to find out, he was Japanese, born on the island.

Raised on the island. Yeah, he just managed to house all us. He said, “Let me tell y’all young guys something. You going up on any mission tomorrow, I tell you man, don’t take nothing to get high on up there. If you do, they will find you, they will have to carry you out of there. Don’t you carry nothing up there now.” [Laughter] We didn’t, but we got to that lemon like he said, and I guess [inaudible 2:52:10] over in that crater, you get there, you get a natural high. This is true. I don’t know what! I mean, I know we weren’t on nothing because like I say, we weren’t messing with nothing. It’s like you on the worst type of marijuana. I don’t know what we had, but it had you giggling. We start—in just a minute, the younger crowd, I guess they were cracking up but they got used to it. We were running off out there about a thousand yards off up there giggling and when cave does this four look like down in where like where the lava and that got hot, you don’t never know where you’re gonna fall all the way down. But we come to our senses, we realized it, and we came back. And then we start back working, and Davie Crocket and Bill Sims, “Don’t y’all ever do that again!” Yeah, it’s amazing. So there you go.

	W:	Well, you know more about this than I do. So you went to the bottom of the volcano and then it got okay and you went back up, you waited?





	L:	No, you go up the volcano to thirty-seven thousand feet by going up the Moanalua Trail which been there thousands of years.

	W:	When it was burnt—



	L:	You never go down in the volcano.



	W:	No, I didn’t mean in the volcano. I meant when you got up there and it started burning, you went back down the side?

	L:	Yeah, we were living down in the hotel, then. But we got so far up we couldn’t go back down, we had to camp out. Because you couldn’t go, you had to hike in then. There ain’t nothing but mountain goats out there then. Nothing but mountain goats, you could see them goats. They’d stay so many miles ahead of you, but you could see ‘em.

	W:	Help me understand. The volcano never blew, it didn’t blow, it just was burning because it was so hot?

	L:	What they said happened, and you never know, but the government told us—our report they gave us is that a piece of glass—what does glass mean? Like bottle glass. It means the volcano flow some years before, a thousand years, a hundred, you don’t know when, there was a piece there that look like just like this, and then you’ve seen a magnifying glass? The sun hit it at a certain angle, and it set the vegetation on fire. That what they say. So it’s a volcanic fire, whatever, but that’s what start the blaze, they said. It could’ve come up from the steam, but they surmised it.

	W:	But you found out what it was and you continued up to the top?





	L:	Because that was the mission. Our job was to finish the mission. I don’t know if they ever told me the truth about that. I hate to say somebody lied to me, I asked, I say, “Anybody ever died on this survey?” He say, “No,” but it just—we cross every river that known and then those bridges in Key West, I went to preaching there for sure, seeing those sharks. And I know people would fix their rods up on you too. I’m thankful I’m here, that’s all I can say.

	W:	When did you finish on the volcano?



	L:	To see what the elevation change had been in fifty years. It had raised one inch. W:	One inch, that whole thing was for one inch.

	L:	Yeah, exactly right.



	W:	And was that more or less than they expected?



	L:	Well, our job is to find out. I just told a young man training in Boca, the White kid I was telling you about, to be an engineer-architect, I called him and asked him, and I was shocked. Rather than at Burger King in Boca, I’m at Dunkin Donuts.

How far am I now? How many miles? He said, “I don’t know.” I said, “What?” I couldn’t wait to get there. I got down, I said, “Wait a minute now Eric. Don’t you ever do that again.” He say, “What I do Mr. Lee?” I said, “Never tell a client you don’t know, use the word ‘I’m working on it.’” They come to you for answers, you an engineer. You don’t know! You not gon’ get paid. So always say you’re working on it.

	W:	Monroe, would you mind if we took a break for just a second, I think this is a good place. All right Monroe, we took a little break, now we’re back, we finished up on the volcano. Question I wanted to ask you is are you the same team





together in the Hudson Valley as you are here, or did they put new teams together when they sent you to different places? Was Davie Crocket with you everywhere you went?

	L:	Yeah. We was G37 Party, that’s a special party, G37. And I think I might’ve—my last hitch was with G36, it might have been. Yeah, because I remember I was in the hanger and Crocket was over in Alvin, Texas. So he was with 37. So I think I was 36, yeah. Party number, just like your number one on that police car, G36, 37, that’s my special team.

	W:	So when did you wrap up on the volcano in [19]75, when did you finish there? L:	About the latter part of October, seemed like the 20th, 26th.

	W:	Okay, where did you go then?



	L:	Took an airplane back out to Tallahassee and the bus run to Madison then, back to my house.

	W:	Trailways or Greyhound? L:	The Greyhound then.

	W:	All right. Back home, have some stories to tell to your family, I guess right? L:	Oh yeah, exactly right.

	W:	So what happened then?



	L:	All right, I’m back home, [19]75, my next mission now is to go back into D.C. and do the 495 Beltway. So I first went on back into D.C. I lived in 830 Oglethorpe out in Washington, D.C. My friend, associate, Charles Mason Jr., his daddy, Charles Mason Sr., worked for the White House. Post office manager in the





White House. Yeah, we used to go up there in the White House, walk through it like it was our house back then.

	W:	Was it [19]76 or [19]75 when you went up? L:	[19]75 through [19]76.

	W:	So you went up before Christmas or after Christmas? L:	Before Christmas, yeah.

	W:	So you weren’t home with your family at Christmas?



	L:	See, I work up until the holiday. That’s what the catch is. That’s what I’m getting to now. So, some kind of way I feel weird. All the money I was making I couldn’t enjoy because I was always not too fit, there’s too much partying in the city. You don’t wanna run around the drug crew, whatever, you always want to live to get back home. Even I wasn’t preaching, but I always—something made me kind of like all the murdered kids, I just didn’t want to be one. So I was just like stay home. So Mason was very concerned about that, he took me to the doctor to see what’s wrong with me.

	W:	Who is Mr. Mason?



	L:	That’s Charles Mason daddy. Worked at the White House, you remember? W:	Okay.

	L:	Charles Mason Senior. So the doctor couldn’t find anything wrong with me. The doctor said, “You like these guys away from home” and all like that. So anyway, holidays came up and we had the Christmas holidays, so they give me a week off or something like that. I say well, I’m gonna catch the bus. They say, “Mr. Lee, you can’t catch no bus home. You gon’ use up all your days on the bus. You got





to catch a plane.” I said, “Plane? I don’t wanna fly no plane.” They said, “Mr. Lee, how’d you get to Hawaii then?” [Laughter] Had I been to Hawaii? I had been to Hawaii. It was the first time—I was coming out of New York the first time when I went to Hawaii. Yeah. But I did tell ‘em about flying, yeah. So now we talking about being back from Hawaii, now, up there living at Waldorf, Maryland. So when I come back home, Waldorf, Maryland, some kind of way that preaching thing was on my mind pretty heavy, right?

	W:	You’re just home for the holidays, you got to go back to the beltway, is that right? L:	Yeah, to finish the mission up, 495, build all them, Baltimore, Crownville—

	W:	Are you gonna tell me—I’m embarrassed not to know this—I thought that beltway had been there for a long time. So there was no Washington beltway before y’all went up there to work?

	L:	No, there was some little lanes, but they were really fixin’ to do it. W:	Oh, they were making it wider?

	L:	Yeah, bigger. Improving it. W:	Okay.

	L:	Then we had to find out what was happening with the ground so they can know how to design the infrastructure. If this is sinking and all we got to design this kind of footing for it. Yeah, so our work is very important.

	W:	Okay, so you’re back home, you’re thinking about preaching because?



	L:	Well, I’m trying to dodge preaching. I’m dodging preaching, but it’s getting to me now. I got all the money in the world in the bank, I’m not enjoying it, I’m just making more and more and I’m not really living my life fully, because I’m not





married. I’m shacking with a woman, you know. That was supposed to be the thing to do, preaching. So that’s eating on me. So I’m worried, I’m worried. So I go speak to this—what they call it—they call it a seer. She’s a lady who knows how the scripture—

	W:	Back home in Madison?



	L:	Yeah. I told my momma I didn’t wanna go see her because everybody think I’m gonna put witchcraft on somebody.

	W:	She Black or White?



	L:	She’s a Black lady; she’s born with that gift. Mrs. Emma.



	W:	Did you know Mrs. Emma before you left? Did you know who she was?



	L:	Yeah, I heard about it growing up. People call them root people, yeah, but she’s a lady of God. Because they see her, you know. You see, the Devil got his crew, God got His crew. So you of God, then you know you a seer, but the Devil got his imposters too that got less power than God’s people.

	W:	So people around Madison knew about her and they went to her for advice, is that right?

	L:	Yeah. The ones who got enough nerve to.



	W:	Did she charge for it or did she just do it for…?



	L:	She is a volunteer person, you can give her what you want to give her and show appreciation kind of like, she didn’t charge per say.

	W:	Okay, so you’re home for the holidays. You go to her, and what did you ask her?



	L:	Well, I need to know why my whole life in shambles because it seemed like something ain’t going. So she just got a glass of water and told me to look right





there. Just choose. And I saw everything that I was supposed to see, that I was living my life. I was looking right at myself, yeah, and she was around me too. But I still couldn’t get it together then until I almost died a few more times.

	W:	Okay, so you go back up to D.C. after the holidays, right? L:	Yeah.

	W:	How long did it take you to finish your work there?



	L:	I didn’t finish it, per say. I ended up back in the tobacco field because what happened is, all that money I had and all that she had said about getting myself together, I couldn’t do it. It looked like, and I just told Davie Crocket I was gonna die. And I would’ve died, probably, because I wasn’t eating either. I had that money in the bank so they shot me to the hospital, shot me, they took me. Davie Crocket didn’t want me to die, he crazy about me.

	W:	This is in Maryland? L:	Yeah.

	W:	About when was that in [19]76?



	L:	Probably about Peace Season, I talked to the prophet. Might have been June, roughly.

	W:	Okay, and what did they find out in the hospital? What did they tell you?



	L:	My momma already know what was wrong with me because she called my brother James, the one that look almost White. He’s a UPS driver, say, “Get up there and get Tommy.” So he come up there to the hospital and say, “Let’s go. Boy, you like granddaddy,” that mean I’m poor, I’m skinny, I’m ugly.

	W:	How much did you weigh?





	L:	I was eating, I was probably like a hundred and twenty or thirty. I was just worry about what I did a lot of times, I ain’t did God right, it was a mess.

	W:	How tall are you, Monroe? About five foot eight? L:	I’m five seven.

	W:	Five seven, a hundred and twenty pounds, oof. Feel like you’re wasting away.



	L:	Yeah, and that was that Devil. And then when I was in Johannesburg, it’s true, I mean, I’m not hiding this thing. People need to know it, it’s what happened. A man of God don’t wanna do what God say do. So as I’m—the next day I found out I lived through that first night. I thought it was a government operation to get me killed. I didn’t know if it was the government that put [inaudible 3:03:42] because I remember because like you don’t know. You just see the walls; they try to take me because I know too much. That’s what the Devil got me to think. So anyway, I woke up this morning. I’m sitting, looking to the West, sitting in that chair in that hospital. And I heard death come in the light, he was in a jet airplane. [Whooshing noise] I know it! I jumped up, it’s true. So I ran about thirty feet, and I fell down on my face, and evidently they said I was dead. They called the doctor. I can see him now, a White doctor come in with a white coat on.

Stethoscope, he rolled me over. He got down. My eyes was open, I never closed my eyes. I tell you what I seen. But I’m laying there on that floor in that hospital and he pronounced me dead and walk off. And I had no brain activity, think about the bumping table. I said, “Did you hear what he just said?” I mean, this true. And I jumped up and ran, sat back in the chair. And they got him, I could see him down the hall. He come back down, he stood up over me. He said, “How did you





do that?” I mean, I don’t know man! So the next day, like I say, my brother showed up, tell me I look like granddaddy. Yeah.

	W:	Did James have a car?



	L:	James flew there, he flew there from Miami. He flew there and got me. W:	How did he get you home, in a plane?

	L:	Yeah, flew on a plane. I didn’t care if the plane crashed, I was so out of it. W:	Did he take you to Miami or to Madison?

	L:	Tallahassee.



	W:	Tallahassee, okay. Then what happened?



	L:	That’s a good question. They got to Tallahassee. My mom already knew that I had talked to the spiritual lady, she had told me to trade my life out. So they took me to the next house, a guy named Dallas Moore.

	W:	What’s his name?



	L:	Dallas Moore, God rest him, he’s dead. W:	Dallas Moore?

	L:	Yeah, he’s a powerful man. He looks just like me, African blood. W:	In Tallahassee or Madison?

	L:	Dallas over there in Georgia. He had to get some more power than Mrs. Emma.



Yeah, they needed some powerful stuff to help me out of what I was into.



	W:	What did he tell you? What did he do?



	L:	He had a church; he got a church there, Dallas. People come from all over the world to see him, because they know he got this godly power. I tell you, he so powerful there’s a White man, a racist White man didn’t like him. Always shooting





at him with a gun. Trying to get him destroyed. Find him dead, floating in the water.

	W:	How much after [19]76 did he die?



	L:	I don’t know, it might’ve happened before I met him. But I’m just saying that tell how powerful he was.

	W:	Oh, the White man died, not him. Got you. L:	Yeah.

	W:	And so you went up there with your mother?



	L:	Yeah, well, my brother-in-law, he was a taxi driver and I love him today for that. He married to my sister, and he heard that my momma need some help getting me some help. So they know that’s the only man in the world could get a man on the right track. So we got there he got this church. He had a church service, people all over the world come in. He call by the spirit; he know who he need to help. He call in, they finally call my mom in there. He sitting there like you sitting there, with a black and white TV showing, I told him to stand up. He look at me, he say, “Y’all young folks.” That’s all he said to me. And it flashbacked to me my whole life what I’d been doing, how I’d been living my life. And he gave me some scriptures to read—

	W:	You’re twenty-two years old then, is that right?



	L:	Yeah. And he gave me the scriptures and he gave me a little red bag, and gave me lucky numbers, I caught a drawing for about nine thousand dollars. Got addicted to playing the dog track, they took my nine thousand dollars and all the rest of the money I had, too. And I had to start working in tobacco again.





	W:	Back in Madison?



	L:	In Hamilton County, Jacksonville.



	W:	Tobacco in Hamilton County, okay. That summer you worked tobacco. L:	Yeah.

	W:	And I know you’re too old to be just picking up stray leaves. What are you doing? L:	I was contracting then.

	W:	Specifically, you’re hiring other people to work for you?



	L:	Yeah, I take the crew of people down and get one to two bonds of tobacco and get twenty-seven dollars a bond, split the money up between ‘em. Profit left over, we buying.

	W:	Now did you have to wait until after the tobacco auction to get paid? L:	No, every day.

	W:	So they estimated how much—



	L:	See what happens is after a while they started giving bulk money. You remember over there they had string bond. They’d string it, on a stick. Now they got technical where they could get so much in bulk, bulk mean a whole lot. They just put you in this fork thing, five hundred pounds, right big as this table here. Big as one section. So that may be a thousand pounds, so these two strong men take it and push it in this bulk barn and they get a big old’ semi-truck string it together.

So it’s called bulk.



	W:	So in Hamilton County, is it shade or flute ear tobacco you’re working on?





	L:	Oh, it’s all sun tobacco. The only place that had shade tobacco I know of then was Madison and Gadsden, those are the only two. Everything else was sun tobacco until they outlawed it.

	W:	And where did the tobacco go? Did they sell it in Madison, Live Oak, or High Springs? Or further away, up in Virginia?

	L:	Now—what you mean? When?



	W:	That summer when you were working, where did— L:	Oh, they had Madison warehouse there.

	W:	So that was at the auction in Madison.



	L:	Yeah, like I said, that was for going in to be cured. They gon’ sell it wholesale to the big buyers at the warehouse.

	W:	But they have an auction like two or three days in a row, and that’s it all year, right?

	L:	Oh no, they be selling year-round once tobacco season up, oh yeah. You go right in there every day. [Mimicking auctioneer] you go up in there.

	W:	That’s not how they did it in Live Oak. In Live Oak, they had three days around—



	L:	Well that’s what happens. Tobacco so big, I guess, because some people come away from Georgia, from other counties to bring it to Madison. They had tobacco warehouses.

	W:	So there wasn’t one day, it was like continually.



L:  I’m telling you, tobacco season they might work every day for twelve days. That’s how I got in the mob, remember that. The mob took me out to Morehead, through that—





	W:	Let’s hear that again.



	L:	That again? I may not want to tell all that. [Laughter] W:	Well, if you don’t wanna tell it that’s you.

	L:	I skate around. Okay, this what happened. Growing up, you hear about cutoffs, right? Cutoffs mean, during slavery time and up until right now, somebody come and tell you a peach on the job, but they get you there, they make you and force you to do things you don’t wanna do, then you can’t escape. Sometimes, you never escape with your life. My uncle, he was an engineer like me. Masonry, all that right there We got caught in a cutoff and he said they’ll beat you and make you go to work. In this place. So he begged my momma crying to send him some money in this little town he was in. It was some part of Georgia. Just so he could have the time to make it back to Madison. He lived. So with me, this guy, I just call him Jacob. That will keep me safe, because he’s got children still living. They crazy about me. Jacob, he was like a Geechee, like from Carolina like we were. But he come maybe a hundred years, fifty years after my daddy. So he married this lady, got children by her. So he’s well-known, they call him Tight Hope, shall I say. So he kept a pistol in his waistband, they say to me growing up. Don’t mess with him, he’s Black, tall, and he talk with that accent. “Mon, let me tell you something mon.” That’s the way he talked. And he’s a good man, he’s all right.

Let me tell you what happened. I almost killed him because the bootleg, there wasn’t no Black people in Morehead so they had me playing poker, them White boys tell me how to play poker. I didn’t know how to play it. So I won all they money—





	W:	This is in Morehead, Georgia? L:	Morehead, Kentucky.

	W:	Kentucky, okay. Got you. This is—we’re going back in time now?



	L:	No, it’s the same. The guy you asked me about how’d you get caught in the mob, and I was telling you about how I got caught.

	W:	What year was that?



	L:	[19]77. After I was out the government, the year I was out the government.



	W:	What’s—I’m trying to keep in chronological. It’s my fault, Monroe. So let’s go back to the tobacco field, then we’ll get to that. So in the summer of [19]76, you’re working tobacco. You got a crew and I guess you’re not making as much as you were on the beltway, but you’re still making good money.

	L:	Oh, I’m making more than on the beltway, which is seasonal.



	W:	Okay, and you’re working in Hamilton County. And it could be my uncle’s farm, they grow a lot of tobacco, but I don’t know. What was the name of the farm?

	L:	Oh, I worked for Hart, Mr. Hart, right on 6th. Tommy Hart, that’s his name. W:	Right across into Alapaha river?

	L:	Withlacoochee river.



	W:	Withlacoochee river, okay. Before Alapaha but before Withlacoochee, somewhere between the two.

	L:	Alapaha be up a little north, I guess. W:	Right, well it also comes down.

	L:	Yeah, Withlacoochee, it splits off at Suwanee.



	W:	Right. So just a few miles across the Withlacoochee, is that where?





	L:	See, Withlacoochee kind of split off, that’s where we come form, our Indian tribe.



You know, I tell you we from the Withlacoochee tribe. They come back down from Valdosta over there down the split right across to Hamilton County there. So that’s—

	W:	Does it come near Elleville, this way? L:	There you go, you got it.

	W:	But you crossed—that farm was just over the—



	L:	Yeah, and see Withlacoochee kind of splits off Hamilton County, and the Suwanee splits off Suwanee, so it’s a little north of you. 129 area.

	W:	So when did tobacco season wrap up for you?



	L:	Oh, you can run tobacco from—well, if you wanna have to suckle, suckle it from April all the way up to August. They have a late cool September. Now that was so amazing, like my family we had a crop of tobacco in a hurricane. It was Cleo, came through like [19]64-ish, it wiped the whole field out to the ground, right?

And we consulted with somebody, and Indian, some part of the family, and they told us to get out there with cane knives and cut the stalk because the roots still in the ground. And you give on little suck on there, did you know by September we had a field of tobacco just that big off that one sucker.

	W:	Did everybody else lose their tobacco?



	L:	We just had to build a hill right where it was, tend it some type of way. It might have been some more people too, but I know that definitely happened to us. We lost about eight, ten acres of it but we still came back in.

	W:	That summer of [19]76, how late did you work in tobacco? September or August?





	L:	Yeah, I finished the whole thing up about September, had a good year. But [19]77, that’s when I figured I wasn’t gonna do it no more. That’s when they were smoking the marijuana and all that and wanna talk trash to me, and that’s when the bud line changed.

	W:	After you finished up in August or September, what did you do? L:	I went back to painting then, painting houses.

	W:	Painting, okay. Now, you’re still not using your drawing and architecture?



	L:	I still would do that too. Now, I would draw churches and houses whenever one come up but I always wanted something to keep me some regular money coming, that’s when I painted the houses.

	W:	Well, I know you’ve talked to me about it before. We haven’t talked about it yet for this video. Talk a little bit about what you did, what you designed with the architecture. Was it churches mostly or what? What did you design?

	L:	The first church I designed I got paid pretty good, it was in 1972 when I was in jail, matter of fact. You know, when I was doing jailtime from [19]72 to [19]73. Reverend Morris, AME ministry, he was the AME church called Mount Zion in Madison. He was just an outgoing preacher; I call him an up-and-coming preacher. He didn’t go by the negativity of society. He said, “That boy can draw, he’s a Black architect, I’m gonna find him, we gonna use him.” So he come up to my momma, say have him come to the house from the jail and meet me to your house and we gon’ meet about this church we need here drawed up. So I met with them, drawed the church up, I didn’t have a whole lot of money but that got





my foot in the door then, because I started my business in 1970, actually. So this is [19]72, I’m really starting to make big money then. Yeah.

W:  So after you finished in the tobacco fields in [19]76, you were painting houses with crews and you were designing churches from time to time, that’s how you were getting by. Correct?

L:   Right.



W:   All right, and then it got near to the next tobacco season, you decided not to do it.



	L:	Yeah, when they went and smoked the marijuana in the fields, I told ‘em, that’s the word they use, you’ll catch the bat. That means you get tired, you get sloppy, druggies want to get up under a tree and sleep.

	W:	Some of the people in your crew were using marijuana?



	L:	Yeah, when they first got out there. And that’s the same guys got out of jail, one of them, Larry Cane, I told you about I got him out of jail, all that black magic on the radio station. He begged that night to get him out of jail, the night before, and I told him not to let me get him out because he was not gonna pay me. He was one of the main ones in the conspiracy, I say. You know, not to go out there and do the day’s work. Matter of fact, he never did pay me for getting him out of jail.

	W:	So you decided you just didn’t want to associate with that crowd or why did you stop?

	L:	Yeah, because I see them going down that road. Because you remember now, Mimi Cherokee and African and I told you about Big Amy, my great-great auntie who hooked my great granddaddy children up to marry her nieces and nephews, McDaniel brought the muscles of a man coming in to help her with all this





knowledge they got from the Indian side from being farmers for four or five hundred years. You remember that they had probably sharecroppers. So, that gave all of us over several hundred years this power, our great grandaddy being a Cherokee chief over the other Blacks and Africans. They know Chief Bryant, he the go-to man. He got killed, coincidentally when two Negroes, they say, was fighting on the plantation. And they went and got him, said Chief Bryant, them negroes down there fighting. He go out there and get with them, he get killed.

	W:	Up in Georgia?



	L:	Yeah, that’s why they told me to stay out of other people’s foolishness. So that’s what I’m saying. So what happened is my grandmama is the one who inherited that green thumb from the Cherokees to be able to grow this tobacco for these White people and keep with power going. And the more children you had, the more people you had in the family, the more access and money you had, and that’s what it was. Because after civil rights come, this bus patrol up here. That’s why they don’t use many Blacks now, they say per say. But anyway, so I saw then that the power we had for these five hundred years is gone with this young crew, they not gonna do what Monroe say because they jealous of him being an architect, and me being Black and being an architect and all that, God skin, ain’t the color they think I should’ve been, you know, doing all this. All that stuff build up in there, so I just say I’m not gonna look to the tobacco field. So I called Don Danarfield back in about July of 1978. That’s the head manager that I was telling you in Rockeville. I said—

	W:	You said [19]78?





	L:	Yeah.



	W:	So you did complete the tobacco season in [19]77?



	L:	Yeah, that’s when they showed out on me. I just said no more, not next year. W:	Okay.

	L:	Not next year. So Mr. Danarfield said, “Monroe, how’s your health?” Because he know what I was going through when I left before. I said, “I’m fine.” He said, “Well, your next mission, go to Texas.” I said, “Where is that? Ain’t nothing in Texas.” So I went out there two months, a White girl saved my life—

	W:	Before you get to that, what month did you go to Texas? L:	About July of 1978.

	W:	Okay, did you start in Galveston or where?



	L:	Houston. The Mexican border. Houston, Harris County to the Mexican border. All the way down there.

	W:	Was that an interstate or what is it? What were you surveying? L:	Surveying the whole south Texas.

	W:	Oh—just regular—the land.



	L:	See, what happened is they already got geographic markers set up. All right? So hundreds of years or whoever long the geographic—since Thomas Jefferson started it. So they want to maintain what the world is doing totally, whether it’s rising, sinking, shifting, earthquakes. So you go and check these markers they already got set up in different locations, and you see what the vertical control changes has been over the period of time since the last time they ran it. Then





you send that back to Rockeville and get the computations, and they put ‘em in the science journals and all that.

	W:	All right, so you’re working Harris County.



	L:	All the way to the Mexican border, whole south Texas.



	W:	Okay. And how long did that take you to get to the Mexican border?



	L:	We finished around about the last part of October again, so a good four- or five- months mission.

	W:	Okay. Do I understand you say you just wanted to get out of that bad crowd, that’s why you went back to do that?

	L:	No, I realized that my career where it was going was depending on other Blacks to maneuver me around, because they’re jealous of me for being who I am, an architect. And they not about to make me more than rich by their labor because their hatred factor there.

	W:	Okay.



	L:	And I know I couldn’t depend on them, you know, being as technical as I were because the enemy is always there.

	W:	So late October you’re at the Mexican border, what happened then? I’m just gonna leave it open. What happened?

	L:	Our next assignment the mission was to go to Monroe and survey to Lee County, my whole name.

	W:	That’s the first part of I-75?





	L:	Nope. Just the bridges that go through, they had all the flimsy bridges over the [19]40s and all that there so now they got the seas—what the seabed had happened was the floor now happened, the sediment of the foundation—

	W:	So it had nothing to do with I-75?



	L:	No, because I-75 was just a corridor to get the traffic in to all these big developments they was doing.

	W:	But they hadn’t built [Interstate] 75 that far south yet, across Alligator Alley yet, right?

	L:	It might have been by then because I left about [19]72 so they might’ve been get there. But see, that was all a land project there, but this is for the bridge placement system is what we was doing. Monroe to Lee County.

	W:	So Monroe, you see these patterns sometimes, I hear you saying, sometimes you say they’re visions, sometimes they’re not, but did you make some significance out of being named Monroe Lee and being sent down to Monroe and Lee County?

	L:	That was so amazing to me, I go by province again. But then I think about that granddaddy of mine, he’s sharp cat. What I’m saying is, for this cat to be highly established in the Confederacy, but he had enough vision to get pregnant by a Black woman and then crazy about his Black children, and then tell them what to name them so it would be better for them. But the only thing he didn’t think I’d be Black as I am. That’s the only thing, the fact that they didn’t factor in. But God showed them, “I’m gonna work with the Black ones as good as I would one of the Red ones,” and more because you’ve got the heart to do it. See, that’s what





people don’t get. You could have the color but the color don’t mean nothing if you don’t have the heart to do what God say do. Just like in the Bible, all these different cats who tried to take place of Saul. And even David, his son, so that’s just the way it goes. God puts people in places specifically. All right, Mr.

Washington, I talk to you. Where do you want to go now?



	W:	Well, we’re in [19]78, I’m trying to go chronologically. So how long did it take you to wrap up that part of your work?

	L:	Well, that’s the catch. I didn’t wrap it up. It wrapped me up, so to say. Not being funny. Remember, I told you about I knew I was dodging preaching for three years, you remember, [19]75 on the volcano, [19]76 what happened, I almost died, you remember, I had all that money. And then I got addicted to playing the dogs, they took all my money. So [19]77, I’m on the teach—

	W:	What kind of dogs, out in Gretna and Quincy?



	L:	At first, I hooked on ‘em in Jacksonville, Orange Park. I caught three thousand dollars; a guy named Knight. God said he did it here tonight. And I caught for nine thousand, I just knew I could gamble the rest of my life just playing the right numbers. That’s the catch.

	W:	All right. So you’re down in Monroe and Lee County, you didn’t finish it up. What happened?

	L:	The thing started working on me, as I said. I know God, you gotta think about something now and again as I told you. This kin Derm, Ethan Derm up in North Carolina, Kent Isler, he was just like an adversary. He a Black guy, he out of the Army, but he just—he gets how he couldn’t have his drinks. Seemed like he just





envy. And then I always thought, “If anything come down, if they told him to kill me, he’d be the person to kill me.” I always kept thinking that, so I was just like try not to have no competition with me. You can’t get in this, you can’t get in a competition because you’re killing—It’s gon mess up your career if he kill you, you’re through. So I got to stay away from him. So he come right around to Key West with that so I told him, I said, “Kent, I want to get me a place to live of my own.” Said, “How you gon’ do that?” I said, “This is Florida! How in the world I can’t get me a place to live in my state?” So that day, I told him to put me out in the middle of Key West. You know Key West is an island, that’s how they got me. It’s nothing but rocks, it’s not like Gainesville, you could go out there and separate, you know where you at. You know if you in Key West, you on that rock. So they put me out. So I got an axe and I could chop anyway I want to, to have a bunch cut I guess. But anyway, after they put me out I got among the locals, I don’t know if they work for the government or what. I said, “Hey mon, help me mon, give me a place to live mon.” A lot of people tell me, “You talk like a Jamaican.” I say, “No, I don’t, I’m Cherokee Indian African, I just talk like who I heard.” Anyway, I said, “Mon give me a place to live mon. I saved money, so problem mon.” He say, “Senior Lee, you go right around there until you see Mr.

Burnes there, he got a [inaudible 3:25:22] there.” On Junior Street. I said, “Okay mon, thank you.” So I go there, Mr. Burnes come out, he said, “Yeah can I help you there sir?” I said, “Yes, I’m from the geographic survey, I need me place to live, money will be no problem with me surveying this bridges here.” And he say, “I don’t know man, they say y’all brothers coming down here with the Army,





Navy, and Air Force. You say you need a place to look out for you running off, leaving with all of my money.” So I said, “Man, you’ll have no problem with me, I guarantee you man. I won’t run off with all your money, I can pay you in advance.” He said, “No, no I made my mind up.” So I walk on off on him kind of sad because I know I need this place to live, get away from this nut. So I walk down a couple of blocks, there’s a lady up on the second floor. She hollered at me, “Hey there, where you be going at there?” I look up there, “Ma’am?” She said, “Boy, you look like my people.” Out of Africa, come here a hundred years ago, fisherman. “Boy, you look just like my people.” I say, “Ma’am, I’m with the geographic survey, I need me a place to live.” She said, “You need a place to live, you go walk down there, then there’s a house down there, go see Mr.

Burnes.” I said, “Ma’am I just left from down there he told me off, he don’t wanna mess with no more brothers like that.” She said, “You go walk down and you tell him I sent you.” I look up and I said, “Ma’am who are you I’m telling?” She said, “Mrs. Julia,” whatever her name was, I took it back down. He saw me coming he said, “Didn’t’ I tell you?” I said, “Old Mrs. Julia sent me back.” “There’s your room right there.” So I had me a room. So every day I get out that government truck I pulls around, hang around. But that Mackey boy, that killer, he gon’ save my life later on. Right now, he—I push him up to find me. They know I’m on that island, he gon’ find me. “I know him, I’ll find out where he live at.”

	W:	Why was he looking for you Monroe? Why does he want to find you?



	L:	See what happened is—I say this conspiracy business now. I did an intervention, I separate myself from him, and he is gon’ see where I’m at just to prove to me or





whatever. But they mad because I left them alone, I’m away from them now. They don’t like this, evidently.

	W:	Got it.



	L:	So anyway, when I get home one day in between the vacation now, I’m going home. Mr. Burnes—

	W:	Did you take the bus? Did you have a car? How did you get home?



	L:	I took the bus at first. But now, I’m back. I’m back with this car now. No, that car—I had to go home and get the car. Mr. Burnes, he tell me, he say, “Brother Lee, them guys from your government job come by the other day, they told me all about you.” I said, “All about me?” I didn’t ask him a question later, because I come back to see the answer. “See there, you keep on saying you holding a job until you die.” I mean, I can hear him just like I’m talking to you, it’s God talking to me. And I say, “Wow, what a shape I’m in now. How I’m gon’ get out this here?” And then so he told me said, “The first thing you do when you get back home, you drive that car back down. Don’t you come back down here on no bus.” See this government truck’s here, because they got you then. Just like that there. So I went home—I told you a little bit the other day about this. My mom, I told you about Cleo, her husband had went off and got killed in the [19]40s, he was hearing the death bells. So she was sitting on that porch there, Moonlight Café, twiddling her thumbs just like this right here. And I’m right there. I didn’t tell her; I was just like I was. Like highly emotions, I’m doing this right here. I work for the government again. I’m not scared, this is my job. You understand, I had to. I mean, you know that you can kill a man if you got to, but you don’t worry about





killing, you got to get your mission over. If you’ve got to kill for your life, then you know. But I’m near at that point where you don’t know if somebody gonna kill you or they gonna throw a brick out the window, kill you, but you got to know you got to be ready to die any time. So, I’m there and she say, “Tommy! It’s that job, boy!” Just like that. And my mind clicked. She telling me, “You hearing them death bells, you see how you actin’, you gon’ be dead and you talking about you ain’t gon’ preach.” So I got pretty scared then. I really did, I was really shook up. I said, “Lord, what am I gonna do?” And God said, “You do what I say do and you’ll be all right.” So I told my old lady, I went and married this lady, I said, “Marie, I’m talking the dog with me in the car.” She say, “You are?” I said, “Yeah.” I take Lady and Sam, Sam is a Labrador I sent from New York, red hoof, years before God had told me, “Someone gave you this dog to save your life.

You don’t know that.” And I said, “Yeah,” all that time he had told me that so I took him down there with me. And he stayed in the backseat like I’m chauffeuring them. Sam sitting there, Lady sitting there, boy, they didn’t play. And I got kind of scared one day—

	W:	What kind of dogs were they? L:	Sam was a Labrador.

	W:	I’m sorry, you said that. And what about the other one? L:	She was a mixed Shepherd.

	W:	Okay.



	L:	Canine. Lady and Sam.



	W:	All right and you bought this car, you had it in Madison. What kind of car was it?





	L:	They call it a Loose and a Quarter, big fancy car. W:	Electric 225? Okay.

	L:	Hog heaven, yeah, it was a [19]42.



	W:	How old was it?



	L:	I bought it in [19]73, it was [19]69, it was four years old when I bought it. That’s the car that man had given me a job at Florida Power, he saw me driving that fine car. I guess he thought maybe he’s a drug dealer with this fine car. You never know what a person thinkin’.

	W:	So your mom is telling you—it basically sounds like she’s trying to get you to go into the ministry, is that right?

	L:	No. She telling me I’m gon’ be dead because of that job. I’m hearing death bells. W:	So this ministry thing ain’t coming from her?

L:  No, God telling me about the ministry but I’m the one telling God I’m gonna resist until I’m dead. So God telling me, go ahead if that’s what you wanna do. But she saw that I’m fixing to die, it look like, the way I’m acting. It’s something about that job. Want to take me down. Which I might have been dead, I’m praying, so here I am alive now. It’s amazing, forty years later. It’s just amazing.

W:  Monroe, you look like you’re getting a little dry here. L:  No.

	W:	Well, I want to ask you a question. L:	I’m good.





	W:	If you think you can still go and you think you still can, then I want to ask you. So you’re about to make this important transition, are you about to say that you became a preacher?

	L:	Yeah. Right there.



W:  Do you want to take a break or are you okay? L:   No, I’m good. I know where I’m at.

W:  So there’s a—you may not have heard of it, a poem by Ernest Dallison called a “Hound of Heaven” where God is going after someone saying, “You can’t escape me.”

L:   That’s what it is. That’s just what it is. That’s what I’m telling you. W:  So when did you finally decide that you couldn’t escape?

	L:	Okay, you remember I told you about those boys had come and told him all about me. Right? So that means—and I know already they talk about me before they tried to kill me in Texas when they left that gas on to kill me. I already know that. But at the government there’s people that if—different people you’re around, that’s who kill you, you know. The government. So people think the government doing nothing to you, it’s the people you’re around. Even the drug dens, that’s what kill you. Somebody you dealing with most of the time, most of ‘em won’t go and blow your brains out. Just something going on between somebody who kill and the killed. So that’s what my thing is now. So God is trying to get me to preach, and he’s letting me see all this stuff that I should’ve been dead or was dead. Now, am I gon’ push to the limit and be dead? Because I told you that I landed in the hospital before my brother came and got me. I knew I was dead





then, and then I woke up the next morning, and I said, “One day, you ain’t gon’ wake up. You keep on here.” So now like I say I’m really scared now. And then after I really got—after he told me about the boys coming and told him all about me, so that mean it’s a conspiracy. If he gon’ did that, why would they do that? And I know they doing all kinds of drug activities themselves, they gon’ pay for it too. So okay, that’s shaking me up. So I go down to the post office, I’m sitting there, reading my Bible because I’m really scared.

	W:	Madison post office? L:	Key West.

	W:	Oh, you’re back in Key West, okay?



	L:	I don’t know why you askin’ because I know where I’m at. And I’m reading there trying to find Sam and Lady and trying to keep my nerves together, and this guy, he think he one of these animals or one of these insect guys. Botanist or whatever, he do the insect thing. Every little butterfly he see, catch it, little bug, he puts it in a little thing. So done tripped up on me and looking over in the window, and I don’t know what he see, eight years working with us or what to find out how much I know about this inventions I’m inventing. I did in Texas. And he stepped up and read that and before I knew it he said, “Oh! Reading the Bible?

It’ll make you a wise man.” And walked away. I said, “Lord, they got you. They wanna kill you.” I said, “Well, they ain’t coming straight out to kill me.” I say, “I got to get out of this situation.”





	W:	So Monroe, I don’t know if you don’t want to talk about it or you do, it doesn’t matter. It’s up to you. It’s your story. But you keep referring to these inventions, is that something you want to talk about or?

	L:	Well, I could tell—yeah.



	W:	So what are these inventions you are talking about?



	L:	Oh, when I first went back in the government this time—this is the second time, my seventh, eighth mission surveying from Houston to the Mexican border, they had come out with a piece called a rod flap, right? Rod flap. What a rod flap is? A rod flap is an attachment that goes on the bottom of the current rod that I’ve been using since I’ve been at the survey to measure these measurements.

Right? But however, that rod, that current rod about twelve feet long or maybe ten. You have to sit on the little titty of the turtle, you know I told you about the turtle? That’s the disc? And you have the back site, past it you got the fore site, you turn it around, but it’s still the same surface and it’s right for getting the elevation. All right, now, so this use of that, Kelly’s rod money, Kelly is forgetful, he makes mistakes, he’s human. He let that rod slip off that titty down to the ledge, that’s about a quarter of an inch drop, right? So he better not tell the instrument man that he done let it slip, you see that. But it’s called busted section, we got to rerun that whole section over. So once I saw the problem, one night on the weekend I was drinking my little wine, you know. Just relaxing, and I took the thing that he had—in fact, I’m a mechanical engineer and designer, I draft one. I designed a piece with a curve on it that any contact made with the little titty on the thing or the pen head, it slips automatically into the hole until the





right surface of the rod. Called it a modified rod flap. So that’s what I did. And then after they—it’s amazing, the inventions for them that I turned in and sent a reward for ‘em. It was—

	W:	Turned in to?



	L:	To the government, Rockeville, to the big boys. Because I was out in the field.



	W:	So did you—did they own any invention or copywrite because you were working for them or were you submitting it for yourself?

	L:	They make me sign a paper that I’m not gon’ sue them, but I heard I could’ve got around that, which I never tried to. But when I retired, I sent ‘em a court thing that I had got my retirement went I ran for president [inaudible 3:37:06]. So they told me I had to be sixty-five, now I’m sixty-five, I think I’m gonna contact ‘em again.

	W:	Okay, so you submitted this invention through Rockeville and why do you think that people were trying to get it from you?

	L:	I ain’t say trying to get it from me per say but the thing is I was saying, I tell you back to what my daddy had told me, to hire White man. No no, no, say and don’t say. So I don’t know that I said too much and know too much about what I’m doing, because I said some things like to the big men one day. When I designed this, I didn’t get this right here because it had a cominsator in the instrument.

Who would know a cominsator is inside an instrument unless he got some brain? So the only folks that know that are the geographic surveyors, you see what I’m saying. But then the peoples know. So I don’t know back then Russia was kind of tense, Cold War back then if you remember. So I don’t know, because I know they watching me because they make me sign papers, certain





papers I signed. So the thing is, certain things that I don’t want to talk about it, I’m not gon’ talk about it. Don’t think I’m just telling you everything. So I know that as a Black man, I’m disposable. I could be killed any time because somebody could tell a lie on me. So if I say the wrong thing, it’ll be the wrong thing for somebody else to hear but it could be the right thing. SO you know, you always got to—

	W:	You don’t have to talk anymore about it. I see where you are coming from. So, it’s coming up, that’s causing you problems, you think these people are doing things down in Key West—

	L:	For envy, it’s for envy. You never know either, but now you know I was getting squeezed to the point—and I thought of this here, too, this was a bottle of lies, too. All right, now, see what happened is you got recon. Now, George Saul told me this, he said—and I love him for this—he said, “Monroe, remember this, you got opinions about people who work for the government—White or Black or whatever,” but he said, “I tell you; they have an opinion about you too.” So you got to be careful. See, you don’t like Blacks, but I’m just putting it out there as it is. And asking the questions as honest as I can that it’s gon’ be people that don’t like me. It has nothing to do with the government, as I was saying. Get that clear. But the chances are when you see these things bending up, as I was saying, when I saw that we got to that crater [inaudible 3:39:20] the ocean floor. Right there, they got this flag up now where I went up there and put that last shot on that mark at least then I did it again in forty-seven years. But I was number two rod, I should’ve been sitting up over here and that number one rod should’ve been there. Probably had meant to be number two rod had be on that squad.





Now, right behind me, thousand-foot drop. If I’d have slipped, I’d have went into a pool of lava, which I’m glad I didn’t. But I’m just saying, so in that course, if I’m down there on them bridges looking at all them sharks, the hurricane that blew out the section of bridge that this mark is at, that you got to get there too. And that recon man don’t tell you everything. And ain’t no rail there. You got to go in there and get that mark and sure enough, that same killer, Mackey boy who had got hired in Texas, he asked me if I had number two rod, my rod. I said, “You can have it. I’ve been called to preach.” And everybody hollered, “You can’t do that!

You got that vision! How you gon’ leave this government job?” Mackey boy, that killer, said, “My mon need a rod down, he can leave this rod here down. Let him go.” And I saw him—it was 1979, I saw him in a year turn back within [19]97, went back to find him. And he went through something but he’s still alive the last time I saw him. So there you go.

	W:	So Monroe, before we get to the main thing we’re leading up to, which it sounds like is when you decided to become a preacher, really.

	L:	That’s exactly right.



	W:	So I’m just going to make an observation, you tell me if it’s right. I’m listening to what you’ve been saying here and it sounds like that from whether it’s the tobacco field or Key West or Texas that you have this ability—you’re a smart guy and people are feeling resentful because of that. Is that really what it’s all about?

	L:	Mmhm, yes. Tying right in.



	W:	So no matter what we’re talking about, that’s essentially what you’re saying. L:	You got that right.





	W:	Okay.



	L:	And they had me—and I know this. I know the only reason I survived is to be a preacher.

	W:	All right, so that’s what I’m hearing. Is that accurate? L:	Exactly right.

	W:	So did you decide to put all that behind you and become a preacher?



	L:	Yeah, I’m ready to be a preacher. I don’t worry about money, that’s why I still make money and don’t even care about it, because it’s still coming.

	W:	Is this an appropriate time for you to take a break?



	L:	Oh no, I’m good. I’m good. My eyes look like that, but I had this Red Bull, I’m good.

	W:	Okay.



	L:	That’s another thing, I’m sitting here talking. But yeah, I’m good. W:	Okay.

	L:	As long as you are up to it now. Mr. Professional, you can always call a break.



Because I’m good, I’m a preacher. That’s what my job is.



	W:	So how did you make that decision, did you tell the people in the government, I’m going to be a preacher? Did you say, I’m just leaving? How did that—

	L:	Again, okay, I’m out there that Friday morning. You remember the guy at the rental house who didn’t want to give me a room but he gave it to me because of that Black lady—Mrs. Judy with no legs. So that morning, now I’m all bent up to him now with everything, knowing I could die any time out here on this road.

Knowing that that must mean death. So Mackey boy the killer, who I know he’s a





killer, he say, “I want number two rod.” Now I could argue with him and say, “I ain’t givin’ you my rod!” But now I’m really knowing that I’m on the edge of dying, momma had told me too. So I’m ready to preach now. And not accept no money, I told him he could have it. So he told them that means he gave a signal to them, “Y’all mess with him, y’all gon’ have trouble outta me.” They know he’s a killer, so they ain’t mess with me. So I jump in the car and put my dogs in and take off to Madison to preach. So I—

	W:	What month is that? L:	January 7th, 1979.

	W:	Okay. All right, so continue.



	L:	So I jumped in the car with the dogs, and I’m scared now. I’m scared they gon’ have a hitman to kill me because I know so much and all I know is they don’t want me to leave. So I get there to—

	W:	You’re twenty-five years old?



	L:	Yeah. I get there to—what they call it—Homestead where they got a temporary office set up. Johnny Tussin, he was the White guy who got upset with me, saw me with that dude in the car. “Who car that is out there?” That’s when I was going down there. I say, “Mine.” “Who told you to drive a car down here? Don’t matter what you drive, these government trucks.” And that’s another thing that kind of upset me too, some might say peeved me off. God told me right then too, “Now, you see what you doing?” He talking to me, “Look that man talking to you, you talk about you gon’ stay in this job until you die. Look how that man doing you.

You could work for me and you ain’t got to go through all that there.” I’m hearing





that from God. So I didn’t like that, what he said, so now I’m coming back by that same guy who talked that trash to me. So I got to going out, fill out papers as to why I’m resigning. And I put on there, “I believe by the powers of God, in God and of God, that I’ve been called to preach.” I put it on there, and they sent me a copy of that. Boy, that right up type, that thing was so strong. I was hitting the keys, all that, pinched in there, I could say they knew I was a specialist; they knew I did all this training; they know I did this invention, now they want to know where I’m going. I’m going with NASA. So I’m scared they gon’ kill me right then. So, Johnny Tussin, he gave me some cupcakes, look like. And I just say “No! No man! You eat, you don’t know this gon’ kill you, man!” I mean, you just don’t know what because you don’t know where you’re going in life, I just know I want to preach. I’m gon’ preach now. So I went up to this Publix and got me some buttermilk and that—what they call it—that profit guy up in Georgia, he had told me because they had fed some stuff into my stomach, he told me what to get, some buttermilk and all—

	W:	This the guy from Donaldsonville?



	L:	Yeah, back before. So I went and got me some of that same—clean out system, Epsom salt, you know, to keep this stuff, whatever. If he put something in there— but I kept praying, Lord, you don’t let me die, I’m gon’ preach. I ain’t gon’ charge you no money. So I made it from Miami to my brother house in Del Rey, that’s Cleo, the dark one. He knew I had gone to the dog tracks, I’m scared, the CIA [Central Intelligence Agency], somebody followed me to kill me. Boy, they come up in here because he’s a Mason, he’s an NRA [National Rifle Association]





member, he’ll fight the moment I say—if they come up in here, they better be right with old Cleo, because he and his wife are going to the dog track. So I went in the back room and laid my hand on a Bible and I fell asleep, locked the door. I thought I was safe. When I woke up, Cleo had kicked the door in and come in there, said, “Hey man, what’s up?” I said, “Man, I been called to preach.” I said, “How’d you get in here?” You know, it’s his house, he know how to kick his own door. So I jumped in the car and I’m heading to Madison to preach. I get to Fort Pierce, State Road 70, and turnpike, that car just cut off at that point so I’m out there trying to assist him. So I pulled on the side of the turnpike. I said, “I’m not no Mason, but I’m gon’ stop some traffic today.” So I got out the car and walked out there with my big Bible in front of ‘em and walked back, did a sign, van pull up. Young Black guy. I looked and the guy, say, “Yeah, what’s up man?” I said, “My car broke down, help me, I’m going home to preach and I’m tired of running, man.” He said, “Mister, I can’t let them dogs get in my van. He say, “I’ll take you in.” I said, “Man, if you don’t take my dogs I’m not going.” You can go ahead on. He looked at me, he said, “Okay, okay come on.” He took me to Avenue D, 17th Street to Walker House, I told them what was going on, we called a Chevrolet repair place to come get the car, jumped on a Greyhound bus, made it to Madison. I preached my—

	W:	Where are the dogs? They didn’t put the dogs on the bus? L:	Put them at Spencer house.

	W:	At his house?





	L:	Yeah. So there you go. So I went to Madison, start preaching, nonprofit. Forty years now.

	W:	Okay, what did that mean, start preaching? Did you go to church, did you just do it on the street corner?

	L:	No, I went to the AME Church, because I’ve been an AME minister, African Methodist Episcopal, founded by Richard Allen, he bought his freedom in 1777, and he started the church after then. And we used to go with that regular Methodist people and they say we went through so much hardship we’d be praying out loud in the church, and they’d drag us out, the White deacons, and Richard Allen got tired of it. He say over to the big bishop and told him to give him his nomination. So that’s how the AME was started. African Methodist Episcopal.

	W:	You’re talking about historically how it started? L:	Yeah, why it originated.

	W:	Okay. But you come to the one in Madison and how do you choose that particular church?

	L:	I had been going there, this one. Jeslamb AME. W:	Bethlehem?

	L:	Jeslamb, J-E-S, same word. W:	Okay.

	L:	J-E-S-lamb.



	W:	Okay, is that still there?





	L:	Mmhm. I preach right by it, Rockeford Road, same one I preached out with Jimmy Carter for fifty hours.

	W:	Mmhmm. Is there a preacher there that knew you? I mean, did you preach in services or?

	L:	What happened, like I said, I was a member of the church already, so due to the fact that I was already a member there, you always go back home where you came from, you gon’ go to this big church and leave your church. You have to leave your church and go somewhere else. You don’t just jump out there somewhere else. So I went back in, report in, and the preacher said, “I’m gonna try a sermon for you before I try you before the big man.”

	W:	When was your trial sermon? Do you remember the date?



	L:	Okay, I started January so I guess it would probably be about May or June or something like that because a few months after, yeah, in Tallahassee, that’s where the trial sermon was at.

	W:	They sent you to another church?



	L:	Trial sermon mean you go and preach your thing in front of an audience of bishops?

	W:	What was the name of the church in Tallahassee? L:	Flipper Chapel.

	W:	Okay, is that still there? L:	Yeah, AME.

	W:	How did that go?





	L:	It went well; it went great because they could see what you was doing. Feel you out, sincere, then you start getting trained and following a preacher who got you up under his wing. And then you learn enough about it and they send you out different places, but I worked for a while with this woman that wasn’t wanting to do right, you remember. I came down here and after they didn’t loan me my money, I went back and worked at the sawmill. And the guy from the CETA program called me and begged me to come back—

	W:	What year are we talking about?



	L:	[19]79. You remember, because a few months after being back preaching I was working the sawmill place, then I came down here and got the CETA program.

	W:	Before you go into that, you gotta explain the AME church. There are not many AME church ministers who that’s all they do, right? They all have a job somewhere else mostly, is that right?

	L:	Yeah, most of them have a job somewhere else and they do the preaching thing on the side. They get up and get off for certain activities of the church per say.

But some of ‘em do it full time too if they think they got enough congregation for that.

	W:	Okay, it wouldn’t be unusual for someone to be working a sawmill and being a preacher that happened all the time?

	L:	Right.



	W:	And so the CETA Program, C-E-T-A, do you remember what that stands for? L:	Not really.

	W:	Okay. But that was a government program, explain how it worked.





	L:	CETA Program is where—I mean the Democrats because the Republicans did everything they can to destroy it. CETA Program was like, “Okay, hey, there’s a lot of Black guys got training but they not getting these professional jobs because you’re telling me you got no experience. How about going and getting that experience by letting them work for you, make you some money, and then you pay ‘em half the salary, which at that time was three bucks an hour. So they pay a dollar and a half an hour and the employee or the person who is sponsored, he pay another dollar and a half an hour to the individual trainee, which was me, myself.

	W:	Okay, and you told us that you first came through Gainesville in [19]72 when you were doing the surveying—

	L:	No, building Interstate 75.



	W:	Okay. But you came—I thought you came—



	L:	I didn’t survey through Gainesville; I just came here going to—



	W:	So this is the first time you came to live in Gainesville? When you got the CETA?



	L:	No, when I was building Interstate 75. I was living in Lake City and worked through Gainesville, and then Leesburg all the way back up.

	W:	Okay.



	L:	But Gainesville only then.



	W:	Now back up to [19]79. You quit the sawmill because you got up working with somebody under CETA in Gainesville, is that right? Or Alachua county?

	L:	See what happened, I had left the government. Right, resigned, out of that good job. But I realized I couldn’t keep a job, even though I know how to draw





blueprints. But I didn’t know how to keep a job, so the closest job I find was with Studstill Lumber Company because I was two older White ladies who needed a young man. An older man, forty years, he up in there. So they needed somebody to help him. So I got the job there.

	W:	Where was the sawmill?



	L:	Well, this was a lumber company. It was originally Studstill Sawmill but it’s a lumber company now, shall I stay.

	W:	What was the name of it? L:	Studstill.

	W:	Stud?



	L:	Still.



	W:	Studstill, okay, I got it. So, you’re preaching, you’re working the sawmill, and you’re designing churches and things for money, that’s how you’re getting by.

	L:	Right.



	W:	And somehow you made a connection with this CETA program. How was that?



	L:	yeah, well I found out the woman that I was in love with, the older lady, she didn’t seem to care about the preaching because she loved—it seemed like I was always gone, that mean that she could do what she wanna do and still have a husband, per say, as if people might say. So I didn’t like that perspective. Now, I wanna be a preacher, I wanna get married and do the right thing. So she don’t have no part of that. So she’s running the streets then, running with these four people. So what I decided I would do, get out from ‘em in Madison, again, try to go to Gainesville to find a better opportunity.





	W:	Why Gainesville? Why not Tallahassee?



	L:		Something about Tallahassee I didn’t get. I didn’t like the cold weather in Gainesville, Tallahassee a little warmer.

	W:	Tallahassee is warmer than Gainesville?



	L:	No, Gainesville warmer because it’s more to the south. Yeah. And then too as I say, I have a lot of resistance from Tallahassee too because I was going through the racial thing with their hiring because of Monroe Lee, my name. When I get there, they can’t believe I’m Monroe. So I had been through a lot of that, too.

	W:	You thought there might be less racial prejudice in Alachua County?



	L:	Yeah, and like I said, the weather, too. All that kind of cumulated then. And then I was gon’ [inaudible 3:53:41] I put out feelers at because if I didn’t ever find work one place I go to another place. So this where it hit. Because like I said, I come down here and went to the employment office, Mr. Lee Carter, was a White gentleman, nice guy. And told him my situation, he say you ought to go see Mr. Ervin, engineer, who was the county commissioner, he told me he was a big guy. They gave me his number.

	W:	So you thought he was the county commissioner?



	L:	Yeah, I really thought that up until now. It hasn’t been proved yet, but like I say, he wasn’t.

	W:	Okay, he was an engineer. L:	Yeah.

	W:	And this is [19]79, you went to him to work for him and he’d pay half your salary and the government would pay half your salary, correct?





	L:	They had the CETA Program so the guy gave me papers to take to him.



	W:	As far as you know, it was coming from him but you knew that he was getting money from CETA—

	L:	Contract, contact. The state gave me a contract to take to him for him to be the sponsor.

	W:	Okay, so what kind of work did you do for J.D. Erwin?



	L:	I did full-scale civil engineering. We would design, and I would design and make money for him, subdivisions, build a plot of land.

	W:	Let’s start—what’s the first subdivision in Alachua County that you helped design?

	L:	Santa Fe Hills in Santa Fe. One and Two.



	W:	That’s up near Santa Fe College? Is that right? L:	Yeah, the other side of ‘em.

	W:	Okay, and so you’re getting paid three dollars an hour for this work— L:	And making them millions, yeah.

	W:	You don’t know what he’s making but a little more than the three dollars? L:	Right, yeah.

	W:	All right so let’s not take a break, as long as you’re working for J.D. Ervin, what else did you design?

	L:	Okay, I did—



	W:	Only while you’re working for him. L:	Benwood Estates one and two.

	W:	Okay, and that’s up on 441-North?





	L:	That’s 39th and Main. W:	39th and Main?

	L:	Yeah, it’s Benwood. Main Street, 39, you go Main Street all the way up to 39th and that’s Benwood Estate one and two back in there.

	W:	I didn’t know that, okay.



	L:	When you make a left it goes to the railroad tracks gong back to 13th. But Main Street is thirteen blocks off to the west.

	W:	I only know car dealerships up there.



	L:	You know where we went to the animal show? That’s 53rd, remember. So you cross over 39, but if you went the other way you’d be going to Benwood Estates. How you get to Benwood Estates is you make a left on 39th off of Main and you’re going back towards the railroad tracks. Before you cross the railroad tracks, you make a right and that’s Benwood. And that’s where I walked off and Johnny helped send that little mean racist White kid out there, say my way or the highway. And I let it been to the highway.

	W:	All right, so Benwood Estates. What year did you work on that? [19]80?



	L:	Yeah, I worked on it from [19]79 to [19]80, a whole year contract with CETA. W:	Okay, what else did you design?

	L:	Okay, you got Benwood Estates One and Two, you got Santa Fe One and Two, they made this big warehouse and they thought they would just keep me doing the subdivision, right, and this guy Jimmy Jones who I was kind of training— because like I say, I already had my own business. Jimmy Jones, he was this UF student, right? He’s an engineer in training at the school.





	W:	Are you doing that in addition to JD Ervin?



	L:	That’s in JD Ervin office. But he was supposed to been having that, I’m supposed to have been like the little grunt man who’s trying to learn this because he know all about engineering because he go to school. He know about all the tangents and all this, cutting field, you know, how much dirt to take out of a hill and all that right there. So he was designing the thing, they got—

	W:	Where was the warehouse located?



	L:	I don’t know for sure but it was in Gainesville.



	W:	So you’re just seeing the paperwork, you’re not going to the site?



	L:	Right, yeah. So anyway, the accused me of doing the rows in the subdivision, so finally I got up and walked over there one day, I say, “Hey man! I see you got your second floor here, where your stairs at? How you gon’ get up there?” They had designed that big old building, haven’t even got no way to get up there. Well, they was keeping this little Black guy from working on it because they think he hadn’t enough sense, he the one told ‘em. Yeah, that’s one of the things I seen there. They ask you a question—

	W:	What after the warehouse?



	L:	I did Point Trinity, also, Point Trinity Apartments. That’s right there down 23rd across Main Street. You come down Main, you make a right, it’ll be the 23rd Apartments right down before you get to Napa. Right by Napa place—

	W:	North side,



	L:	It’d be on the north side, yeah. W:	Anything else?





	L:	I did little parking lots like warshaw, I had a lot on University, little parking lots on 6th, little minor things. Parking lots over by Sears Roebuck over by 13th. I probably licked that thing there, yeah.

	W:	Sears Roebuck used to be at 13th and 23rd? L:	Yeah.

	W:	All right, anything else?



	L:	Well, I tell you what’s so amazing I remember some little place down there where the Goodwill at down there, where they sold a number of products—

	W:	You talking about Eighty-Four Lumber?



	L:	Yeah, it might’ve been Eighty-Four. I just remember now, yeah, the little place. W:	On 34th Street.

	L:	But this here was 23rd. Down from JD now, right there before you get to Main Street, before you get to the Greyhound bus station, you know where that is. There’s a Goodwill place in there, it had to be a big building. So the people said they liked me because I would let my dog pull me to work on the bicycle, I got my dogs trained when they first start stealing, I had dogs pulling on the bike. They took the job, while I’m working I go out there and give ‘em a break and my dogs—So I come by the White people like they were so in love with me because I got dogs and I used to be their friend. So I ask—

	W:	Later on we’re gonna get to the dog stories. I hate to mention it but I’m just asking you now since you brought it up, what kind of dogs were they?

	L:	This was a canine here.



	W:	You mean like a police kind of dog, a Shepherd?





	L:	Yeah, he was killing them kids in Atlanta, I was up there. This same dog here.



Yeah.



	W:	Okay, you’re talking about the Wayne Williams thing?



	L:	Yeah. I took that same dog up there with me that was down here with me. W:	I’ve never heard this before; they were using your dog to help hunt?

	L:	No, years before the killings started I was just getting with the CETA program in [19]80, right? So about the time I got up to Atlanta and started working, they was finding these Black kids dumped different places. So I was still looking young even though I was twenty-five, twenty-six years old. I was still—and then you start getting to my age, too. So they had this dog out from Gainesville, White man gave him to me. His name was Butch, I named him Ambush, he’d pull my bike everywhere I’d go. I just put my hand on the handlebars so he’d pull me all through Atlanta.

	W:	Your dog? Okay. We jumped ahead Monroe. So how did we get from JD Erwin engineering in Gainesville to working in Atlanta? What happened?

	L:	I told you I finished up the CETA Program in 1980, then JD Erwin sent me to the city of Gainesville for a job interview for draftsman. So I took some of my work down there, some of the subdivisions I had did, to show him I was the guy for the job. So the White dude, he looked at it and he said, “You been doing a fine job, Mr. Lee. She won’t be no problem to you?” He’s talking about a little blonde, White girl, worked in the office. I said, “No sir, she won’t be no problem to me.” I said, “Matter of fact, I worked around White people all my life, White women.” I say, “I was raised how to work around a White woman without getting out the





way with her, that’s just the way I was raised.” He never called me back. I told Mr. Erwin about it, so he sent me to John C. Hill, Hill Construction over by Alachua. So I go over there to Mr. Hill to help everything because I been by JD Ervin, he said, “Ain’t got none of these here.” I didn’t know what he was talking about. Towel jobs. He said, “You want to work, you want to work.” I said, “Yeah, I’ll work there, I’ll pick cotton.” So I went to work for him.

	W:	Okay, it was [19]80 still? And what kind of work did he—it’s construction? L:	Yeah, construction.

	W:	And what kind of work were you expecting to do with him?



	L:	Anything besides working with a towel, and that’s what he was doing. He ain’t got nothing but a towel open.

	W:	Does that mean a labor work?



	L:	Yeah. So I’m building manholes, doing what everybody else do. Picking up roots. And one day he say, “I got one for y’all. Go out to Hale Plantation, uptown road.” So I out there start—where you go in the inside out, picking up roots, the labor was picking up roots.

	W:	Now the Hale Plantation wasn’t built yet, was it?



	L:	No, this is the first phase I’m fixin’ to build it. Uptown road. And a White guy named Miles, a young White kid, like I said I’m about twenty-five then, he must be about twenty, eighteen, nineteen. So he pulled roots right with me. So one day Mr. Jordan Wilson come out, superintendent of the project, White guy. He said, “Brother Lee, you doing fine, you mannerable, so we got a promotion for you. You help lay out the subdivision here with Jared Miller,” White guy.





	W:	How did he know you did that kind of work?



	L:	Well, he knew I had been with J. Hip, you remember. J. Hip I trained as an engineer. At JD Ervin.

	W:	You said Hill or Hip?



	L:	Hip. See, Mr. Ervin know Hip. He sent me to him. So the work I did for Hip, Mr.



Ervin, I designed subdivisions so now I’m fixing to build one.



	W:	Okay, you’re not working for Hip anymore, this other guy is gonna hire you? L:	The man I was telling you—you missed it. He was the superintendent, Mr.

Wilson. Working for Hip, superintendent, he’s running the project.



	W:	I’m really sorry for being a little bit dense here but—so Hip didn’t want you to work that kind of a job--?

	L:	No, he was letting me know if you gon’ work, you gon’ have to get down. You don’t come in here looking pretty.

	W:	He wasn’t saying you might not do that work, you’re just also gonna do labor, is that what you mean?

	L:	Yeah, he ain’t got no kind of work for me coming and—



	W:	Okay, but this guy that you’re talking about told you that he did have work for you, towel kind of work?

	L:	No. The subdivision, you’re getting out there with your instruments again.



	W:	Okay, I misunderstood. Laying it out. You’re talking about essentially surveying kind of work.

	L:	Yeah. For it to be built now, because the blueprints already there. You got me now?





	W:	Yep, okay, so you start working for him, we’re trying to get to how you went to Atlanta here. I know you’re working there; you’re getting to it.

	L:	So I was telling you, he select me to be the layout man with the White guy engineer, Jared Miller, to lay the whole thing out. So Miles get upset to the fact that, “Why you letting this Black guy do it? Why can’t I be layout man and the Black guy keep picking up roots?” So Mr. Wilson called Miles over right in front of me, the White kid, the young one. Talked right in front, he said, “Look here now, don’t be angry. This young man,” he talking about me, “he got the training to be an engineer. You just fixing to go to college,” to the White boy. And he say, “Another thing too, this Black guy right here has still probably been here a couple hundred years all ready, bearing the burden of making this country. No telling when your people got here. It’s probably been lately. But he’s trained for this job, that’s why he’s getting this job. It’s not that I’m looking over you.”

	W:	This was Miller?



	L:	No, he talking’ to Miles, that’s the young White kid. W:	Who is—Miller is doing the talking?

	L:	Miller is the engineer, Vietnam veteran, the one we working with. He ain’t have nothing to do with it.

	W:	Who is the guy that’s staying this stuff about—



	L:	Mr. Wilson, the superintendent. The old man, old White man, he letting the White kid not to be raw, as Cane was with Able.

	W:	That seems unusual, Monroe. L:	Yeah.





	W:	A White person who understands where you’re coming from. L:	Exactly right. That’s what he told him.

	W:	So what happened?



	L:	Okay, so I went ahead on and built the whole subdivision, whole Hale Plantation, and Hip by the way of getting around Christmas time, to get rid of you, looked like. Like all the jobs, they say, get slow, they lay you off.

W:  Monroe, I don’t know what the protocol is and what’s proper and what people do in that area, but are you still only making three dollars an hour or are you getting some extra money for the work you’re doing?

L:  Now I’m on probably about six, seven dollars an hour now. W:  You’re finished with CETA?

	L:	That was JD Ervin, CETA, they was getting rid of us for—go out and make some money rea money and work.

	W:	Okay so you’re making six or seven dollars an hour and you finished that project when? When did you finish the Hale Plantation?

	L:	I finished it and then I went to work on some more. I started 62nd Street, I come and di 62nd from University to 20th. I did that next.

	W:	And that was Ervin had a contract for that? L:	No, Hip now.

	W:	Hip, okay, Hip. And so what time are we talking about, [19]80? [19]81? L:	Getting at the end of [19]81.

	W:	Okay, end of [19]81.



	L:	End of [19]80, because [19]81 fixin’ to come in, I believe.





	W:	Okay, end of [19]80 and you’re 62nd. And 62nd goes by Oaks Mall, is that right?



	L:	Right, exactly. Going south to 20th. So we finished that up, like I say, getting about the end of the year, about Christmas season, that’s when they lay you off. They made all the money they wanna make. So then I went up to Atlanta.

	W:	Okay, what made you go to Atlanta?



	L:	I had a cousin up there, he the same one had the house out in East Gainesville that I came and lived at when I was training to be an engineer. But he’s always a user, you know. But he used me but some kind of way God fixed it where he got some benefit from me too. He can use me up, having nothing in store for me, but God fix me up where I was in a place to help.

	W:	So Monroe are you still preaching back in Madison on weekends or what?



	L:	Nursing homes only now, and that’s what I found out. See, that’s what I found out about this ministry. People in the church got money, they wanna push a preacher around. But I was a different type of preacher. And I am now still. I don’t accept no money, that way they can’t push me around. I go to nursing homes where they can’t pay me, that’s why I chose the nursing homes. See, they ain’t got no money and that’s why I love to do what I do. Every part of it.

	W:	So during this 1980, you’re not really doing much preaching? L:	Yeah, I’m running back to Madison every weekend.

	W:	That’s what I asked.



	L:	Yeah, I didn’t know you mean now, you mean then. Not now.



	W:	And so when you went up to Atlanta, were you going to be doing preaching up there or were you going to be coming back to Madison or what?





	L:	Oh, I used to come back to Madison to preach every so often. Every so many weeks.

	W:	Who did you go to work for in Atlanta?



	L:	I went to Atlanta, believe it or not, I started off in logs with pulp wood. I’m the type of cat that I’m gonna make me some money legally. So I got to Atlanta, I start just walking the streets looking for work and I saw this old man, Mr. Willie, he wasn’t no bigger than me, he loading pulp wood on this truck. And I said, “Well, I did this back in the [19]70s,” I say, “I ain’t too much above it.” And I asked him, I say, “You’ll give me a job?” He said yes. Show what you need—

	W:	Was that a White man or a Black man? L:	Black man. So I went to work for him.

	W:	Did he go in and harvest the pulp wood or what?



	L:	Yeah, he cut a tree down and I helped him load it on.



	W:	Around Atlanta? Outside of Atlanta? They don’t have any pulp wood growing in Atlanta?

	L:	Right where Marietta sitting, Marietta’s in Cobb County, north of Atlanta. W:	So you go up with this truck with, what, a powered saws and cut it down? L:	Yeah.

	W:	All right, how long did you do that?



	L:	I must’ve did it for a couple of months because some kind of way, walking again, I saw Bunnel Industries and I walked to their park and I saw Bunnel Industries and I went in there and asked for a job. I said, “I’m a draft man architect,” but I say, “But I’ll do any kind of work.” So, our job was to build a noncorrosive pipe





for Daude chemical plant, doing carbide. Teflon line pipes, fiberglass reinforcements, I’m doing the rodding and torrent, erosion protection, so they was sending me all over the world, to India—

	W:	So you’re working in a factory, basically? L:	Yeah.

	W:	Okay. And what do you do, just cut the pipe or what?



	L:	You got tubing, PVC tubing, and you gotta weld the Teflon, weld ‘em and that’s the tube, that’s the inside aligner right, so the acid don’t eat it up. Then you got your resin, resin, that’s the glass part, liquid. And then you got a meat you put in to make it hard, right? So you got resin and you got matte, matte smoother, rosin is kind of coarse like big coarse hair spread together like a burlap with a silk material. A fiberglass material. Yeah, so you put your resin in there, you put so much meat in it, it get hard. All right, so what happened is—

	W:	Do you use a welding arc?



	L:	Well, you use a welding arc for the Teflon liner, you remember, but when you get your Teflon liner set up that’s your inside of the piping. Then you do your glass, you got a winding machine will wind it around there, that’s the pipe system, but then I was in charge of airborne. The airborne—

	W:	You didn’t do any welding yourself? L:	No, unh-uh.

	W:	Okay.





	L:	I was a layerman, layerman is you get you all that material like the resin and all, you put so much in that down, put the liquid stuff on it, and roll all the air bubbles out. And that meat may cure off.

	W:	Any danger in that chemical, that stuff you’re working with?



	L:	Yeah, because what happened is this madman, which I got some money pending—that’s what I was telling you about, I had money pending but I just ain’t took my time to go get it, I should get it before I leave this world. Madman Tim Flood come in from Texas and Bunnel so not to Shaw Manufacturers. Shaw Manufacturers brought him in, and he make us work with fiberglass. Work with asbestos, asbestos had been outlawed so I wouldn’t go along with it. So [19]82 came in, I left ‘em and put the EOC on ‘em, come back to Florida.

	W:	Put the--?



	L:	EOC.



	W:	Okay, so you came back to Florida, where’d you come to in Florida?



	L:	Okay, that would be coming in to [19]82, oh, I had bought a house in Atlanta so my baby mama daughter didn’t wanna act right, so I went into Texas again, where I was at, working for the government, but I went by Greyhound bus just to tour the land. And I saw this pretty gal, the one I married, my wife, that Creole gal. So I told her, tried to get her to come back to Atlanta, she didn’t wanna come up there where I bought the house at so I came back to Florida, sold my property I had there—

	W:	Where, in Atlanta? L:	In Madison.





	W:	Oh, you sold your property in Madison. Did you sell your house in Atlanta?



	L:	No, I rented it out to some boys, supposed to been buddies, like I said, the wrong crew. They ain’t no good. And they kind of commandeered my house, tried to take the house from me.

	W:	So, Monroe, again it’s up to you to talk about what you wanna talk about, but I’m hearing that your married or kind of married with this Creole one from Texas, I hadn’t heard that before.

	L:	I’m getting ready to marry her.



	W:	Oh, getting ready to marry her. Okay, you met her there. L:	I’m meeting her; I’m telling you how it happened.

	W:	Okay, got it. Okay, so she comes to Madison or—



	L:	Yeah, I meet her in Texas and then I get all the information, so I go back to Atlanta, I got this nice house and nice job, I get her to come up here and we’ll live in this city the rest of our lives. But she won’t come up there which, I guess, is a good idea now that I think about it now. She was so pretty. So I sold the property in Florida, sent her the money to come on to Florida. When she came, but she just came like for a month to hang out with me.

	W:	A couple of questions Monroe, what property in Florida? Was that something that you bought while you were there?

	L:	When I was working in the government the second time I promised I was gonna be smarter than I was the first time. I know that the woman I was living with, I wasn’t married to her, so I went and bought me a house another third house. We





had two houses all ready. So I bought a third house before I left her so I had a house before I left.

	W:	So she comes there. When you say Creole, what does that mean to you? L:	Creole mean just like my family, really, but they got French in there. French

Indian Black mixture from Louisiana.



	W:	So after about a month she—



	L:	Say, “I wanna go back.” And I just—I thought we were gonna get married. I was so in love with her and I couldn’t make her stay, so I had to let her go. So I decided to let her grow up five years and then I called her back again in [19]87, that’s when we got married.

	W:	Okay. So what’s happening between [19]83 and [19]87, what are you doing?



	L:	Yeah, so she left in [19]82, I came on back to Hunter Marine in Alachua and got a job there building sailboats.

	W:	I wanna just—you mentioned a cousin in East Gainesville, at that point the only place you’d lived in Alachua County was east Gainesville, is that—now you’re living in Alachua. Is that right?

	L:	Right.



	W:	Okay. Hunter Marine working with fiberglass, what were you doing?



	L:	Building sailboats, the hull. He left the hull, the hull of the boat, you go in there, you gotta look. That’s the thing you may get on, you make these kits out of the rosin like I was telling you we did for the same pipes up in Atlanta. But now, the kits is for a big old boat and you get in and you got these boots on and you gotta whole team of guys. Some of these guys, you got to be on drugs to stand up to





this work. One man, he was outworking me because I was just like trying to make a living. Then I was hurting because the girl was going back to California so I didn’t have no energy. The woman I want to marry gon’ to California. I done made plenty of money before as an architect, now what am I doing here at a ten dollar an hour job? You know, I just couldn’t get that. So I was working with a girl named Ruby or Bunny, they called her. She White girl, she wasn’t that big. But now you know she can work, man. She worked me under the table, so—

		W:	She was your boss at Hunter Marine? L:		No, we was building boats together. W:	Oh, together.

L:   We had to cut the kits, she and I. So that mean you get this big old spool, turn the roll of spool and stuff and you got to load it on and you load it off and cut it and I mean—you done this thing, it’s shot, get you another raise—

W:  Was there some English company that owned Hunter Marine? L:  Somebody that bought it, yeah. They done bought it out, yeah. W:  Okay, they hadn’t yet?

L:  They done bought it—Marlo bought it in, somebody else done bought it now I think. They done had three sales since this.

	W:	Okay. But how did you hear about that when you were in Atlanta, about that job? L:	I didn’t hear about it, remember I told you about it. I was down here with my wife come down, the girl I was trying to marry, she went back to California. So I

stayed in Florida and I went by Hunter Marine since I was in Alachua and I never went back. I walked in, asked for a job.





	W:	Just walked in, asked for a job, got it. How long did you work for Hunter Marine? L:	So I worked there at least like four months, three months, two months.

Something like that. But it come to be Christmas so when the big man come out to give the checks, he say, “Mr. Lee, I must tell you that I get a report that you ain’t performing a hundred percent.” I say, “Sir, you right. I done come and I told you myself, I’m gonna resign, give me my check.” [Laughter] Then I take mine now, go back to Madison—

	W:	What year are we talking about.



	L:	This was in [19]81, you remember. W:	Okay.

	L:	[19]82, Christmas of [19]82. So I walk in the house there, same brother they gave up to die several times who I told you about, look almost White, Al. He’s the younger one. He’s about six foot tall, he’s the pretty boy. He got that conversation, you know, like the rapper, “There go my brother there. Just who I wanted to see! I know we going to Del Ray now.” He done got caught bringing drugs into prison—

	W:	Your brother had already been to prison?



	L:	No, he ain’t been to prison, he was a guard, he got caught bringing drugs in. W:	Oh, he was a guard. What prison?

	L:	Cross City. And by him being well-liked because the White-looking appearance of him, Red, they didn’t discipline him or give him no time, they just fired him. So he said, “there go my brother now,” he just had a baby, “my wife just had a baby, I know we going to Del Ray.” So my Cherokee grandmama, she sitting on the





couch, she said, “Al, Tommy,” that’s my nickname, “Don’t y’all go down there to Del Ray. Cleo is not working himself; he’s laid off. He’s on unemployment.”

	W:	Before you go on, Monroe, you mentioned a couple times going to Del Ray, what did Cleo do before he was laid off?

	L:	He was a concrete truck driver.



	W:	Okay. So, your grandmother says don’t go down there-



	L:	Don’t go down there because he’s laid off himself. He tried to borrow money from her too because the workforce, they won’t let certain crew have their money when they gon’ let other ones have it. So Al got behind her back, she’s sitting there, “We going anyway.” So he convinced me to take him. He got a car but he ain’t got no money, so I financed it.

	W:	Cleo have a house down there? L:	Cleo have a house, yeah.

	W:	So is he married? L:	Yeah. Children too.

	W:	So you and Al went down and moved in with Cleo?



	L:	Yeah, so I go over there to Perry and pick up my canine dog, who I bought from Atlanta, you know, the killer dog. Took him in the trunk of the car and we going to Del Ray and we go out looking for work that Monday. And Cleo get unemployment, but you know, he just ride taking us around because we gon’ be in his house, he gon’ make us work. That’s the kind of cat he is, you know. So we went to this Palm Beach Custom Kitchens place, I did. And I come back out, I say, “I think I’m gon’ get that job.” They say, “What you mean?” Everybody think





they on assistance, the Black one, even though Cleo Black too. I said, “Them ugliness get in his head. They wolfed up at me.” “What you mean?” I said, “I told the man I picked tobacco and cotton and I’ll work.” “What you telling that man that? He don’t wanna hear nothing about no tobacco and no cotton.” I’m the first one that got hired; the man hired me. Same man he told me didn’t wanna hear it.

	W:	He just wanted to know you could work hard.



	L:	Yeah. Exactly right. And at Palm Beach Custom Kitchen, mechanic, custom cabinets, countertops, all that, doing good. Everybody borrow money from me now, I’m giving everybody money thinking everybody love me. But you can’t buy love, so I’m fixin’ to show you now. So Al, he living with me, borrow my money, “Oh I gotta borrow this here,” and then so many months passed. I said, “You want a job?” “What you mean? You know I want a job!” I said, “I’ll get you a job.” “How you gon’ do that?” I said, “I’ll get you a job man just tell me you want one.” He said he want one, so I pick up a newspaper and I go to the D part before I see this thing, I don’t know what it said but I called the job opening. I said, “Hello mon, my name is James, I worked at the Department of Corrections, can you help a young man they got rid of.” Which is true, they had got rid of him, all that was true. He said, “Send him in.” He sent him in, gave him a job, and Al come back with blue pants like a police and white shirt like a police. He was a security guard, he making good money now. Boy, soon as he got that job he start lying on me again. See that now? That’s the Devil, even your brother, you helped him out again, turned to walk, he still got that Devil, it’s part of him—

	W:	Monroe, you’re about twenty-eight, how old is your brother?





	L:	When I was twenty-eight? I’m just saying, yeah exactly tight, you right, I’m about four years old than him, going on five, so he’s about twenty-three.

	W:	Okay, so working security guard, you’re still working for the custom cabinets? L:	Right, now Cleo help him find an apartment. So Cleo say, “Tommy, you gotta help Al clean out his apartment before he move out.” I’m doing all that, Devil,

carpentry work, fixing up, I’m doing all that there. And he got back, Cleo say, “Hey Monroe, you going around there with Al now.” I said, “What?” I said, “Man you know Al been lying on me, he been lying since he growing up, kid. I had to get my mom a house because of the lies they told. You know I ain’t gon’ last no time with no Al, man.” He said, “Monroe, y’all come together, y’all go together.” I never got that until today. I don’t stay in my brother’s house today. I will never sleep in his house; I’ll sleep in my truck all night long. I don’t sleep in nobody house right now, I don’t, because people will talk about you. I got too much pride for that.

	W:	So we’re talking about almost forty years, you still haven’t ever slept at your brother Cleo’s house since then?

	L:	Right, I go there and be sweet and sit up with him, but three or four o’clock, oh, I get outta there. I tell him, I say, “Tommy why won’t you come and stay all night?” I say, “I don’t want to come in your house all time of night,” because I don’t. I don’t go to bed until five o’clock and I’m not gonna be knocking on your door or coming in your house. He gave me a key to the last house down there he gave me a key to come in. I come in, use the bathroom, but I won’t come in there and stay. “There’s a bed right there!” I say, “Naw.”





	W:	So you and Al are working down there and what happens then?



	L:	So he told me you come together; you go together. So Al got his wife now to come on down because now he got the apartment so she come. She’s a sweet girl but she end up divorcing him. But I wasn’t there a week, man, he throw me out. And I just start living on the streets and I say I’m gon make it though, man, and I start doing signs. I was already doing signs, too, for businesses on the side. And one day I said, “I’m gon’ make it.” I caught the Greyhound bus all the way to Miami. You been to Miami, but the bus station in over town. That’s way in the south.

	W:	Yeah, I know where over town is.



	L:	And I walked from over town all the way to the northwest section on my feet, by myself, until Joseph Calebson, he was a Black guy kind of like me, Jones was the horse guy that Joshua watched. And [inaudible 4:23:06] sent off, and Professor Middlebrook, University of Miami, Black as me, he’s an architect and he was giving lectures there. Well, I let him give me his lecture on architecture with the Engineers of the Southeast there, Black Engineers—

	W:	You went to this lecture?



	L:	Yes, when I went down there for the bus. Because I knew I was gonna shoot my little line to him. Before he finished up, I got up, raised my hand up there, I said, “Yeah, I’m an architect, I was wondering where I could get a job at.” Boy, he acted—He gave me his card, Joseph Middlebrook, next day I was down there, South Miami, went to the office, Jan, she pulled him out of—Jan, she used to run his office. See, Middlebrook was smart, he realized what I didn’t realize until I





realized, I made my foundation. He know that he’s a Black man, he know that he’s an engineer, an architect, professor at the University of Miami, but he did not run his office—I’m gon’ come in and put that seal in that drawing. He had a White man or a Hispanic running the office for him. I took notes from that, and that’s what called me, spurred up me to get the Isabel Lee Foundation. Because you can’t make people love you and people just gon’ have this idea. I mean, I did everything my parents told me to do. Stay away from the White women, don’t mess with that White women, get killed, but still people hate me, some of them Black folks, too. Some Black folks make the White folks think that I was on to their White women. Yeah, just to get that hatred on me. So back to Al. Al put me out and I went over there and like I say, Middlebrook gave me that job so now I’m working down there in Middlebrook, that’s [19]84 to [19]85.

	W:	What kind of work were you doing for him?



	L:	Oh, I’m designing like I say, that’s my first self-designed project, that building right there on that, open lock. I did that, I did all this school, all this work and Dade County had to give a Black minority company so much of it, yeah, so I was doing architecture.

	W:	Schools?



	L:	Schools, government buildings, housing, buildings, anything they needed, they had to give the Blacks so much so we would get it.

	W:	How much was he paying you?



	L:	I might’ve been right at about nine dollars an hour, in that neighborhood.





	W:	Okay. And so do you stop working there, for what reason? Why’d you stop working?

	L:	Middlebrook is like this, he’s like one of those—see the men like that and I told him, he was Black on the outside, White on the inside. That mean he don’t care nothing about a Black person, really. There’s some Blacks like that. They get what they got, they think you less than them, seems like that. But I called him out on it. I told him the way he was treating me because what happened is after I opened up the City Hall, he said how he was gon’ lay me off. And [inaudible 4:25:53] Puerto Rican, Cuban boys, they couldn’t deny that I was looking like my own business but they were still on. And he told me to come back for my pay a couple of weeks for my pay, and they don’t pay fairly. I ran that thing, that’s why I tell you about that accident. My heart is beating pretty fast, I’m about ready to destroy something. I said, “Mon, what’s wrong with you mon?” I said, “Mon, you mean to tell me I make all this money for you and you think you gon’ tell me to go somewhere and come back and get my money?” You better cough up my money right now and you better get it now. “Just write him a check!” Yeah, he paid me. So then I went and rocked on and I was to—had me a little business up in Del Ray designing funeral homes, different churches. And this guy, they call him a wino, Bubba Gerald, my cousin G, he told Deacon Blue, He said, “That boy there,” I’m a grown man now, “I know he can draw.” Deacon Blue said, “What?

We need a church craftsman here at Baptist Church.” So they gave me that job, so I got me another project I’m doing. So now I go to South Miami Beach, Phil Soloman, a Jewish architect. I say, “Phil, I got this mean old’ lil church man I’m





gonna let you help me, let you make you a little money.” I said, “Let’s give it to Middlebrook and let’s the three of us team up on this job, split this money up.” He said, “Monroe, you know what Middlebrook did to you?” I looked at him. This is a Jew talking to me about another Black man. Listen to what he say, he say, “If a man screw you over one time, you go back to him again, he gets to begin to feel like you like that being did to you. He gon’ keep putting it to you and you gon’ go back to him again.” I said, “Okay, okay.” So I got it. So he say, “But I know a White guy, Brad Shaffer, young White guy, his mom and daddy was bankers in New York, he got a seal, he’ll work with you.” So say, “You make you a deal with him and we’ll hook you up with him.” So he hooked me up with Brad Shaffer.

	W:	before you go on, something I wanna know about. You’re trained as an architect but you’re not an architect graduate, so you don’t have a seal. Now, you haven’t mentioned that with these Black funeral homes and Black church es, do the Black churches and funeral homes go ahead and build without having a certification or how did that work? Did you have someone working with you to have the seal on those?

	L:	Yeah, seal, yeah. That’s what I do, too. And that’s how I made my millions of dollars I mean, not bragging on it but I gave it away. That’s because I learned that you don’t know how long you gon’ live, that’s why I do what I do with my foundation. But in architecture, you got to have a seal. But in the old days, now, when I first started, you didn’t have to have this but what happened, these laws kept putting in place. That’s why they say a lot of people got grandfathered in. So what I would do, I would get me a consulter. I’d never tell him how much I was





making, because that not his business, if you smart. Because that’s the more he gon’ want. I ask how much he gon’ charge me an hour and most guys like to charge a hundred dollars an hour. I paid him—

	W:	But at Middlebrooks you were working for him? L:	By the hour. He was making the money.

	W:	So he had the seal.



	L:	Yeah, his foundation, his company.



	W:	Okay, all right, so you’re on your own and where are you doing this work if you’re not in an office?

	L:	I’d go to Brad Shaffer’s office because see you got to go by the law, you call it a rubber stamp. I draw something, hand it to you, you stamp it. You got supervise the construction or the design of it if you a smart architect, or you got to be right up on a guy who know what he doing.

	W:	So I’m guessing that you’re making a lot more money in South Florida than you were made in North Florida doing this architecture stuff.

	L:	Yeah, and that’s what made them mad with me in Madison because I was making so much money and they found out. Because see, when they come at me in this false charge of professional regulation, they was mad because, “He charging that kind of money?!” The White man been charging them all their life but they just ain’t use to a Black man making that kind of money. Ten percent of construction costs, and I might do it for seven.





	W:	I’m gonna jump ahead just so I’m oriented here, when did that problem you’re talking about happened? That was in the [19]90s, right, we haven’t gotten there yet?

	L:	That problem—



	W:	With getting called up to the architecture board or whatever that was. L:	No, they had me in 2002 after the—

	W:	So let’s wait until we get to that. So you’re down in the like [19]87 time frame, is that were you are in Miami.

	L:	Yeah, [19]87, [19]86, yeah.



	W:	Okay. And so how long did that go on? Where were you living?



	L:	Well, like I said after I did the Miami thing I come back up to Del Ray and did a little bit but I finally migrated—because I got to do the circuits, still, like I do now for fifty-one years. I circuited back into Perry in [19]86, if you remember. [19]86 now, and that’s where I read an article again and see IME, Industrial Maintenance Engineers, being formed in Perry. This guy Bob Misner who is a University of Florida graduate, engineer, he had the engineering degree but he worked at Proctor and Gamble in Buckeye for about thirty-five years at this time. And Robert Swain, big time Munson man or con man or whatever, big time money maker, some kind of way he find a way to make money for hundreds of years, look like. He’s good on making money. They formed a partnership, right, and they get this guy Howard Johnson to run it for them, another White guy, he a Jehovah’s Witness. So but they still don’t know what I know—

	W:	Is he retired from Buckeye or still working there?





	L:	He was retiring that year, so now he founding his own business now with Swain. Swain got the pull, he got the knowledge and the seal, and I got the knowledge of running technical. So they put me to running their company for them.

	W:	So you moved to Perry because you heard about the job?



	L:	I was in Perry kind of like running my circuits doing painting, you know, remember that’s where Davie Crocket find me. So, now I’m back there eleven years later doing the same thing again.

	W:	Just so people listening know, Perry is about how many miles south of Madison? L:	Thirty-seven.

	W:	Okay, go ahead.



	L:	Now what I’m doing, I’m back in Perry running IME. So now I’m realizing, I’m thirty-seven years old, I want to get married because I’m preaching, to do it right I need me a wife. But I know I don’t want no woman who run the streets. So now I’m thinking about the young, pretty girl Creole girl, wondering what she’s doing. So I stayed in touch with her, I called her back up and told her I got this job running IME Engineering and that I’m ready to get married now. She had one when I met her, Joseph Vernon, Joseph Junior, that’s the boy. And his daddy name Vernon Senior. So she comes to Perry—

	W:	You’re saying she got married and got divorced.



	L:	I ain’t never divorced her I’m still married to her. I was telling you how it happened and then I went back, you remember, in [19]82 and I told you about she said she wanted to go back.





	W:	I just misunderstood; I didn’t know you ever got married. You actually got married?

	L:	No, I didn’t get married to her at first, you remember, she came and stayed the month, remember I told you that.

	W:	I do.



	L:	And I let her went back, but now, five years later, I kept calling her back— W:	But has she gotten married in the meantime?

	L:	I’m calling her back to marry her.



	W:	Okay, but she hadn’t married anybody else. L:	No, she never been married to nobody else.

	W:	Okay, who is this Joseph person you were talking about?



	L:	She just had a baby from him as a young girl. He’s a Vietnam veteran. W:	Okay, so how old is this child now when you’re bringing her?

	L:	He two years old when I met her. Joseph Junior was two years old when I met her in [19]82. So now he’s getting to be seven when she come back. Now she got a second one now, Chucky, there’s two boys when she come back. All right, so this the kicker here, this was really a shocking time to me because it shocked me. So when I tell her to come back, we gon’ get married, I’m happy that I’m getting married, happy to be out for someone. I’m telling Bob, the White engineer, riding along with him. [inaudible 4:34:05] I said, yeah, I happened to be now that I got a nice wife who gon’ appreciate me. He looked at me, he said, “You really believe that?” I thought that was the most downright thing I ever heard. He telling me I ain’t gon’ be happy with her, guess he didn’t know he was





right. So I didn’t like it but I just, what? So sure enough, next thing I know, my wife say, “Monroe,” this the kicker, “You know what they told me?” I said, “They? Who?” I’m a transparent cat. “They who?” “Them people you work for, them White people, when you left the office the other day they told me, ‘Why you marrying him?’” I said, “huh?” Say, “We recommend you don’t marry him.” I say, “What?” “They say they said it’s gon’ make your children darker, you marry a man that Black.” This is a Black woman they talking to. This is in [19]87, it’s true. And I couldn’t believe that. So then now Bob conveniently leaves, University of Florida graduate now, leaves town, Perry, and goes out of town. Stella—he’s German, she’s Italian—what a match, I often tell them that. They got a broker that was FSU, out Florida State, and they gave a job, but they broke us fifty-one. But anyway, Stella told me she wanted to have a meeting with me because Bob was going out of town. So she at the Holiday Inn there in Perry. It goes like this, “well we hear that you got that there woman over there in that Florida Motel with you.” I said, “Mrs. Stella, I don’t live at Florida Motel, I still live at Backs Trailer Park out there off of Strickland Road.” I got her that place but she scared me about them White peoples and she just couldn’t take that. I don’t sleep with her, per say, we getting married. She say, “Well Monroe, you gon’ get married, we’ll come up with a good severance package for you. We bought for you, you’ll write that out, you can have the car, the money you said you owe us on that, we gon’ write that off, and we gon’ give you—” I don’t know how many thousand, whatever, just go on down the road. I said, okay, I opened an office in Madison anyway and I’m hiring your husband at a hundred dollars an hour. [Laughter]





That’s what I did. I got married anyway. It’s amazing man. We got married December 31st, 1987. So there you go. That’s amazing.

	W:	Whose husband, I missed that, you married--?



	L:	I married my wife Zula, but I said Bob Meyers, that German guy, the husband conveniently left town that day when his wife gave me the news that they put him—sent him in the road, because something with this woman out in this hotel that unmarried because she’s a Red woman, almost looked White. And then like that, the fight, the other White people gon’ see, then suppose a Black man got a woman almost White.

	W:	So where’s the hundred dollars an hour come in? L:	I paid him by the hour to work for me.

	W:	Oh, I see.



	L:	Because I had an office in Madison.



	W:	So basically you just decided to leave Perry, is that what you’re saying? L:	Yeah, so there you go.

	W:	So did you get divorced?



	L:	No, I’m still married to her. I’m making sure they don’t make that happen, you know what I mean. And that what they been trying to do, and that’s what happened in Alachua. And she come back with me after I went into bad water, she got back well, she driving the car around there and White police stopped her and went through the car hood and everything else, scared her up pretty bad.

And that’s the reason why she don’t wanna mess with ‘em either. They don’t wanna see me with no pretty woman like that.





	W:	So what happened in [19]87 when you went to Madison, where did she go? L:	[19]87, what happened, [19]89 she went with me. We got an apartment in

Madison. And then finally we moved the equipment and I stayed with my equipment in my office in Madison, come back to my office end of the day in Madison.

	W:	Where did you get the equipment?



	L:	We was in Madison first but she didn’t like the fact that everybody in Madison knew me and knew I’m an architect. When I be gone, she thinking people gon’ target her and she just wanted to get away from there.

	W:	So she wanted to get across the Georgia line. L:	Yeah, get away from Madison, yeah.

	W:	All right and so for how many years were you there in Quipman?



	L:	Oh, right than a year because the White people there had the same problem with me, they didn’t wanna see me Black as I was with a woman that pretty. And every time she go for help she need help with the kids, the kids with mumps or some disease or what the kids have—they wanted me to come in to sign papers and all this. I said, “Zula, I better not go up there with you, it’s gon’ make it worse on you. They how Black I am, because they already got an idea already, hearing about it.” So, they wanna wait on the children man so I had to get on out of there. Move back to Florida.

	W:	So she still has two kids, right? L:	Yeah.

	W:	And she didn’t have any with you?





	L:	Oh, we got a daughter. W:	When?

	L:	That was the last one born about [19]89, [19]90, when she left. W:	So she has three children.

	L:	Three, possibly four because she had another one that’s not mine.



	W:	After, when she left. Okay, all right. Do you want to take a break here?



	L:	No, I’m good. Well, seeing the time, we could come back tomorrow at eleven.



Okay, let’s do thirty minutes and give this lady a break. Can you come back tomorrow? Or you can’t do it tomorrow?

	H:	Yeah, I can come back tomorrow.



	L:	Yeah, let’s do that, be good to her. You wanna bottle it off, or go ten minutes?



	W:	I’m fine, let’s just do half an hour and then that’ll bring us up—however long it takes, probably less than half an hour, but we’ll talk about when you came back to Alachua County and before the JD Ervin stuff, let’s lead up to JD Ervin?

	L:	You mean the work for Ed Culper, you mean. W:	Ed Culper, I’m sorry.

	L:	That’s okay. I know there’s a lot of JD’s and JE’s. Getting back in time—



	W:	Let’s get up to that part, okay? So you left Madison with your wife, and with—or did you? When did you leave?

	L:	What happened is she went to California and I came— W:	Let’s use her name, Zulla?

	L:	Yeah, Z-U-L-L-A.



	W:	Okay. She went to California, why?





L:  Well, the polices were watching me out in my office there and then the people know when I leave town to go on the church property, and she just kind of felt weary with that. She just mind her time, always at the house by herself.

W:   So you’re going back to Madison to preach?



	L:	Well, me and her were living in Madison but I be going different places, work out on churches.

W:   Oh, designing churches.



	L:	Because you an engineer, you always building the world so you can’t stay in one place. So she was scared people was gonna target her.

	W:	She went back with her two kids to California. You hadn’t had a child together yet.

	L:	Yeah, right.



	W:	Not yet. Okay, so what happened then?



	L:	Well, we kept communication up and then we’d meet up how we’d do— W:	She’s a nurse now, right?

	L:	Yeah, traveling nurse, yeah. W:	Was she a nurse then?

	L:	She always had this marker was scared she was keeping drunk and reading and know-how and all, but she really got into it after this time right here. After the time she decided she would stay in California, she was tired of Florida. She just got tired of it.

	W:	Monroe, you were born in 1953, when was she born? L:	Ten years later, she’s [19]63.





W:  Okay, so she goes back to California, you are still in Madison? Have you moved to Alachua yet?

L:  She left one time in Madison but then I drank the bad water in Mexico and then she begged me to come to California and then she came back—

W:  You’re talking about stuff you haven’t put on the record yet so let’s go back to make sure that we get it all here. So when she went to California, you went to Mexico?

	L:	She went to California and she stayed for so long and then when she left she left pregnant and this guy Vernon Joseph saw her and saw her pregnant, he attacked her with a baseball bat, killed my baby, liked to kill her, because he knew she was married to me.

	W:	What year was that? L:	[19]89.

	W:	Okay, is that the child you said you had together?



	L:	No, the one I had together is alive. This the one he killed in her stomach.



	W:	I thought you said that child that’s alive was born in [19]89. So the same year that that other baby was killed?

	L:	[Inaudible 4:42:53] kids in [19]88 maybe. I’m maybe a little bit off here. Because that one was killed first, before this one, this one is alive.

	W:	That’s really sad.



	L:	Yeah it is. And it was so amazing, I mean really, because like you say one of them is alive, that’s one of the situations I never gotta be with me, this guy was a Vietnam veteran, certified killer, true, right? And she say he always refer to me





as, “That N from Florida,” that’s the way now, he don’t say it “Fluh-rid-UH,” “Flow- DA.”

	W:	This is Los Angeles?



	L:	No, he’s from Louisiana?



	W:	No, where did she get hit with the bat? In Louisiana or in California? L:	Oakland, California.

	W:	That’s why I said Los Angles. L:	No, no. Oakland.

	W:	Oakland, okay, got it. And so how did you find out about that?



	L:	Well that car was engineered in Tallahassee working for a Hamburg Engineering, and they called me, she’s in the hospital in bad shaped, Negro had attacked her and killed the baby. He didn’t know she was my wife, all he knew is she was pregnant, he knew she had been having sex with me, that’s crazy.

	W:	Monroe—



	L:	He dead now.



	W:	When she left to go to California, did you wrap up your business? You’re in



Quipman?



	L:	No, I’m back in Madison. Because you know I kept—had an office in Madison at the same time and go to Madison to work.

	W:	So when she left, how long was it before you went to work in Tallahassee? What happened there?

	L:	Like I said, I wanna keep a job for security, right? So even I be gone, in my business, I keep a job for security so I went to Tallahassee. And got a job with—





	W:	Before she left or after she left? L:	After she left.

	W:	Okay, that’s soon after she left. L:	Yeah.

	W:	Okay, so you were in there working that job, how many months after she left did you get that sad news about what happened to her?

	L:	It was in the gestation period stage seven, she was three months pregnant when she left, probably about three months, four months, because she was probably about seven months from there, her stomach well out there when he attacked her with the baseball bat, yeah.

	W:	Okay, and did you talk to her about it? How did you learn about it? L:	Like I said, they called back again and give me the news—

	W:	Who is they? The hospital?



	L:	Yeah, her family called my mom and told her what had happened, why I was in the hospital, yeah, yeah, yeah.

	W:	Okay. And then what happened next after that?



	L:	I kept communicating with her and I was working for NASA coming on into [19]90, if you remember, I was working for NASA so I was doing the spaceship.

	W:	Before we jump ahead, you didn’t get that job through Tallahassee, you got it through Gainesville?

	L:	This NASA, now I’m back in Alachua county. You remember, I come back to Alachua County.





	W:	I remember, we haven’t put it on here yet so let’s talk about that. You were in Tallahassee, you heard about your wife being attacked and your child being killed, and what happened to bring you to Alachua County after that?

	L:	All right, I’m working for Harold Benjamin, that’s what I told you, when the attack happened. Right, so Harold Benjamin and I fell out, I’m running for office only in Madison now. So my office right across from the police station in Madison, so the police officer, apparently he had been watching me late in my office at night.

Working right there in front of him. So he follows me from my office down to Lake Francis stop sign, you got to go in the lake or you stop.

	W:	Is that the lake south of 90? L:	Yeah.

	W:	Is that where Van Priest used to have?



	L:	Exactly right. So now what he does, as soon as I leave the stop sign I hear this four barrel open up, [Whooshing noise] it’s a car. And he put the blue light on me. I say, “What they doing? He saw me at mine all night.” He say, “Mr. Lee, I’m gonna give you a break, you coast the stop sign but I’m gonna give you a break and put it for careless driving.” That’s a worse charge than that! So he say, “Well,” he wrote me up, I was hot. I went and talked to Judge Blaire what had happened.

	W:	He’s the county judge in Madison?



	L:	Yeah. Judge Blaire. And he say, “Well you can get around it Mr. Lee if you do this, go to school, blah, blah.” So I told him I would go to school, thought I’d hear from him. I ain’t never get no paperwork, so then I start feeling weird. Weird





feeling I need to get out of Madison, so I start looking for work again. Came back to Alachua County again.

	W:	Who hired you?



	L:	I just came back on my own then looking for work, you remember? And I would go to dinner where they would discriminate you, they just kept playing’ with me.

	W:	So what job did you get?



	L:	I worked on a horse ranch. Yeah, retired horse ranch. Peter and Mary Gregory, out on the other side of 75.

	W:	So you came to Alachua County just to get away from Madison. You didn’t have a job, you tried to get a job with Dane, which is engineering, right?

	L:	Right.



	W:	but you couldn’t and you went to work doing manual labor on a horse farm. L:	Yeah.

	W:	And meanwhile you got that ticket that you think has been taken care of. L:	Yeah, the one that—

	W:	You went to Judge Blaire about?



	L:	Yeah, what happened is, I was supposed to left and got work from when I left school, it have to do with the school thing, which I never do. But every day, Alachua sheriffs got a chance they would pull me, check my driver’s license, see if everything was good.

	W:	Okay. How long were you working for the horse farm before you got pulled in Alachua?

	L:	Probably about the same time





	W:	First month?



	L:	A couple months.



	W:	Okay. Now are we about to get to the part where you got arrested for that. That’s where I think we ought to stop.

	L:	I didn’t get arrested.



	W:	Not yet, okay, let’s go up to that point.



	L:	Okay, you wanna come to the first arrest? Because what I’m saying is at the time they just now giving me the ticket and I’m going to court.

	W:	Right. I want us to stop when we get to you being arrested. Let’s go up to that point. Okay?

	L:	Yeah, because see remember I didn’t get arrested until the 2000s so ain’t nothing happen to me in the [19]90s. I didn’t go to jail at all. I only went to jail for the false charges, I went to jail for the false charges that they sent Rod Smith at me for, the false check—

	W:	I used the wrong word, you didn’t go to jail but you had a court appearance, let’s say?

	L:	Yeah.



	W:	Okay, let’s go up to the time of the court appearance. We’ll stop at the court appearance. So you got the ticket, did you give your ticket to court at that time, 1990?

	L:	Yeah 1990 the ticket was for—let’s say the tag was on the sign, which both tags, the tags for the [inaudible 4:49:42] and the Toyota, which I bought the same time.

	W:	Okay.





	L:	And the other one—



	W:	You’re doing a really good job and I know a little about this because you told me this story, and I know you’ve told it to me and I wanna make sure it’s clear here. So your wife left, you went to Tallahassee, at some point you decided to come to Alachua county because you thought it would be a better place for you. And you for some reason thought Dane engineering would hire you, but they didn’t. You worked for the horse farm—

	L:	I called ‘em, matter of fact, with the name Lee and talking’ like a White person always do that when I’m interviewing, don’t let ‘em know I’m Black—try not to talk, say anything to sound Black. So it worked and they thought I was kind of a foreigner and then Lee, they thought I was an Asian.

	W:	And so then you showed up? L:	Oh, and things changed, yeah.

	W:	And what month was that when you showed up?



	L:	It was the warm part of the year, had to be between the summer months of July or May to August, had to be because of the warm months.

	W:	We’re talking about [19]90. L:	Yeah.

	W:	And your child has been—



	L:	Child had been killed already before I came down here. W:	Okay. But your other child hadn’t been born yet?

	L:	No.





	W:	Okay. Your wife is still in California, you are trying to set up something so she can come back here and live with you?

	L:	Yeah, I’m trying to get everything straight, you know, I’m happy now, away from ‘em. This a city kind of like we can live in, yeah, got a good job so I was hoping to build up to, yeah, at that time.

	W:	Now had she come back to you when you got that ticket or was that afterward?



	L:	It was afterwards because what happened is, see, and that’s what the catch is too, after I got that ticket and saw they was abusing me, it was about time [19]90 came around. About October of 1990, I make a trip out there to see her, to California, [inaudible 4:51:38], Z, to the house in Alachua. Right, I catch the bus out there. So I have—I call her sister and have her sister to call her and tell my wife Zulla that I’m there but I’m respecting her because like I said, she been gone for over a year. Just to have a friend, guy, you see how it feels, I understand that. I’m not gonna go there, “I’m her husband.” And just take over the house. So I got to go there in a respectful way. So I let her know I’m not gon’ come and barge into your house, I’m respectful, ask can I come talk to you. So my wife called me back after the sister call her and told me if I’m having this kind of a relationship with her sisters, she’d have me killed to make it look like robbery, turn my pockets inside out and leave me wiped, which they can do that. So I explained to her I wasn’t doing that, not to worry about that. So Anthony, he had a Creole girlfriend, she was from Louisiana, Arkansas.

	W:	Who is he? Who is Anthony?



	L:	I just met him on the Greyhound bus.





	W:	Oh, going out there?



	L:	Going over there, yeah. That’s a three-day ride. And Anthony, he liked me so he told his wife what my wife had did to me, what she had said, so they took me home with them to 14th Street and I had a good time with Antony, start picking at those Asian guys. Took my nerve out, I haul butt back to Alachua but on the way back I meet this Mexican guy who told me he had a sister in Veracruz, Mexico, Sofia Maren, and she was an engineer. A chemical engineer. He to see me as his brother-in-law. So I thought it was a good idea.

	W:	Was she Mexican?



L:  Yeah. I said, “Give me her telephone number.” He gave it to me. It was true, he had a sister. So I hired a Spanish interpreter. Said I’m ready to marry her, but I had to divorce my wife. So I finally come to my senses.

W:   So you’re thinking that your wife doesn’t wanna see you again?



	L:	Yeah, I’m thinking I’m gonna be through with her, I don’t wanna put up with it no more. Yeah, I’m with done her, gonna be through with her when she said she can have me killed.

	W:	So you’ve already gotten the ticket in Alachua, you just haven’t got it resolved yet, is that right or not?

	L:	Hear that slavery now. They kept that, did that to me now about the time I get to Mexico. No, this stuff happened—matter of fact, it happened about the time I was getting ready to go. I had not finished up with him, remember, he got my last stuff about September, now it’s October, I’m getting ready to go to California.





	W:	Monroe, this is what I think—this is really a key thing because I understand what’s happened in your life since then, very important. And so what I’m gonna suggest is that we come back tomorrow and start there, and this is a little bit confusing but the thing that happened to you before you went to California set up everything that’s happened today, that ticket, and so it’s important that we make that clear, I think, in the record. And so just trying to find out up to the point you got that ticket. So you hadn’t gone to California yet, you were working at the horse farm, is that right?

	L:	Right.



	W:	And hadn’t you come here thinking you were gonna get a job as an engineer, you used a voice on the phone that sounded like you were White or oriental, and when you showed up, they didn’t wanna hire you. And after that, this thing happened with the ticket, correct? Before you went to California? Is that right?

	L:	Yeah.



	W:	I think that’s a good place for us to stop— L:	You can segway right on to it, yeah.

	W:	That’s the key to everything from there. Okay.





[End of interview] Transcribed by: Abby Lovett

Audit-Edited by: Sandra Romero, August 4, 2021 Final-Edited by: Sandra Romero, August 11, 2021