AAHP 217; Daniels; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu





AAHP 217 Belinda Elaine Daniels African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Julian Ruiz on November 11, 2011 49 minutes | 22 pages



Abstract: Belinda Daniels starts off by talking about her mother and father who met at Camp Blanding near Starke, Florida. Her mother worked in the commissary and her father was in the Marines at the time. Her mother went on the receive training from Santa Fe Community College to become a nurse’s assistant and her father worked in agriculture. Daniels details how she intended to joined the National Guard in 1978 but was ultimately places in the Army. She describes the struggles of serving as a woman in the military. Daniels discusses her time being stationed in Germany before the Iron Curtain fell. She discusses the various jobs she took after returning to the United States. After some time, she started working with the military again in a clinic at Camp Blanding. She talks about the relationships she had with her coworkers and the men in higher positions than her.



Keywords: [African American History, Camp Blanding; Bradford County, Florida; US Military Veterans; Women in the Military]



















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 217

Interviewee: Belinda Elaine Daniels Interviewer: Julian Ruiz

Date: November 11, 2011



	R:	I am Julian Ruiz and I am here with Belinda Elaine Daniels on November 11, 2011. Belinda, where were you born?

	D:	I was born in Starke, Bradford County. R:	On what day?

	D:	On December 29, 1951, halfway between the state prison and Camp Blanding, Florida.

	R:	What exactly do you mean halfway between the state prison?



	D:	Because I live on the same street that the Florida State Prison is on and also Camp Blanding Military Base in Florida. It was an Army National Guard and Reserve.

	R:	How did the location where you grew up affect the person that you turned out to be?

	D:	Because I was sickly growing up and my mother was having a hard time with eleven kids. It was seven girls and four boys. My mother wanted to go to the military but her mother and father died and so she became an orphan. Then after she had us kids because she wanted a big family, she didn’t get a chance to go to the military. And so I guess it was just in me something while she was carrying me to grow up and go into the military because she wanted to do it and she never got a chance to.

	R:	What sort of job did your mother have?



	D:	My mother worked in the commissary at Camp Blanding and she met my father when he was being inducted into the Marines. And she worked on the farm





picking up pecans and strawberries and worked in restaurants. She wasn’t skilled trained until she was fifty-five and got her GED and then she went to CNA.

	R:	What does CNA stand for?



	D:	CNA stands for medical treatment, treating medical patients, like a nursing assistant. She went to Santa Fe College in Gainesville, Florida, and worked at nursing home on 16th Street in Gainesville, Florida.

	R:	What did your father do?



	D:	My father was a market contractor. He was a real character. He loved peoples and he loved fruits and vegetables because his father was a sharecropper, he planted cotton in Madison County, Florida, which is the country club built on our old family property. He wanted me to go to college. He wanted me to go to Florida A&M, but I wanted to go to Bethune-Cookman. So we kind of half grew up during those days in the [19]50s and [19]60s, it was real rough. My father always said peoples from South Florida all the way up to the Catskill Mountains of New York harvesting fruits and vegetables.

	R:	Where did you go to school?



	D:	I started out at school here at RJE, which stands for Robinson Jenkins Ellerson High School here in Starke up on the hill on Pine Street. Don’t ask me to know because I can’t remember that far back.

	R:	What year did you attend high school?



	D:	I started high school in 1958, I mean regular school in 1958, and I came out in 1966 I think ‘cause my father gained custody of me, it was too much for my





mother to handle all us kids alone. I didn’t go back to school anymore until before I entered the military.

	R:	Could you put a precise grade on what grade you stopped?



	D:	I quit in the tenth grade, then after the tenth grade I went to live with my father and I went up and down the road working as a farm laborer and stuff. He was very strict on me. We didn’t really want for anything at all, we was like treated good, you know. We had fruits and vegetables, I didn’t like meat too well. And then I left and I came back. I got married at seventeen but I never had finished school and I wanted to finish school. It was bothering me by not being a high school graduate and not being able to go to college. So I went to Job Corps in December 5, 1974. 1973, I mean. Then I graduated from Job Corps in 1974. I think it was September 19, 1974, as a medical assistant to doctors.

	R:	Exactly how did you get involved in the military? What was the entire process?



	D:	After going through two bad marriages and my mother still struggling to see that we got what we needed and it was so hard on her and I had been through so many jobs in the field. I was working at a chicken farm and trying to go to school during the day. Trying to pay my way through Bradford Vocational Techs here in Starke. So I always wanted to go to college and I couldn’t go, I couldn’t get on the SEEDA Program it was too many of us kids and everything. So what I did I kept going to school and I completed my GED, and when I completed my GED I had to take my sister to drill at National Guard in Jacksonville, the 146 Signal.

When I got to the 146 Signal to take her and my ex-husband they told me to take the test because I was physically fit. Since I was so physically fit I maxed the test





to go to the military. So after I maxed the test I went back in later that week which was July 25, 1978, and I went back in the next week for my physical, I had to stay overnight in a motel and take time off from work. And I hated chickens. I hated chickens working on that job because of the smell and the odor and all and I was going further and further from meat because all I wanted to eat was fruit and vegetables. So I passed that. So they sent me off to basic training for the 146 National Guard in Jacksonville. When I got to Fort Jackson I didn’t have the proper paperwork with me so they switched me out of the National Guard into the regular Army because I didn’t have no paperwork, no orders. I just had a plane ticket and I kind of had a hangover also where I didn’t want to go. I got scared.

My friends and buddies took me out and we were drinking beer and everything and I was going to skip. I wasn’t going to show up. I got scared, I was real scared. My mama said, “Unh huh, no young lady.” Joyce Sanders said, “You be on that plane because you’re not going to get lost out here on these streets. And stuff like the rest of the people out here. You’re going to make something out of yourself.” So just sign to suit the judge on the bench at night here in the courthouse and he took and told me I had better be on that plane when it lands to go to the Army. So I took off to go to the Army and I ended up at Fort Jackson, South Carolina. Fort Jackson said, “Since she don’t have no orders,” when they picked me up at the airport and, “We don’t know where you’re supposed to go, we’ll tell you what, you’re regular army.” The guy I flew with there with had a degree from Florida his last name was Graham but I can’t remember his first name for nothing. We was on the same flight my name was on with his on the





same orders flying with him to Fort Jackson. So they put me in the regular Army. I said “No sir sergeant, I’m not regular Army I’m National Guard.” He said, “You know you what we tell you to be because we hired the stake.” So that’s how I got in the regular Army. So they sent me off, I think it was September 19 for Fort Gordon, Georgia. And that was one unit warfare COSAR and when we got the one unit warfare I was telling the drill sergeant, “Drill sergeant, they made a mistake. I’m not supposed to be here. I’m supposed to take communication. I’m not supposed to go through basic training,” because I didn’t know. He told me, “No ma’am before you get to go through anything in this military you’ve got to go through basic training.” I said, “Okay maybe after I finish basic training, I’ll settle down and everything. And I’ll get a chance to leave and go where I’m supposed to go.” Christmas holidays came up and since I was regular Army with the green and white ID, I didn’t come home with my sister. They sent me out with my husband, a boyfriend by me being regular Army I didn’t have to return, you know, stateside because the Army is different it’s federal. And state when you for state you got to return to the state you come from. But since I was regular Army and federal, I could go anywhere I wanted to go, so I went with Burleigh Daniels to Alabama.

	R:	How was it for the military for women back then?



	D:	It was hard. I went in during the year that women was training with men. What they wanted me to do after I finished my basic training, my AIT for communication, they wanted me to go to drill sergeant academy for six weeks to help train new females coming in. They had no idea what it was like being a





woman. They gave me a leadership manual at Fort Jackson because they was sending me to old grim barracks in Fort Gordon, Georgia. There wasn’t many females. There was only ten females in my company: two regular Army and two National Guard, and me since I was turning up sick. I outran everybody I had outstanding training because I was in physical good shape. The arthritis wasn’t bothering me at the time. When I went to basic training it seemed like the exercise was helping me to do better, until the calisthenics. My knee fell out of place and so since my knee fell out of place and they had been popped back the best they could get the joint they and run it pop into place, it was okay. They had no idea about our personal hygienic things that women have to do. I was the first female to take sick. And when I took sick it was kind of embarrassing to tell a male sergeant, you know, every month women go through things, you know what I mean. But they kind of embarrassed me. But one of the other sergeants took up for me because he said he had sisters and stuff and everything. But that part was hard. We had to carry extra stuff than the men because you’ve got to get clean, hands sanitized, and because there are different needs that a woman needs.

Being unhygienic and to stay clean and being out in the field it was kind of rough because you got to go way back and hide. If you sick you don’t stay in out of the woods. You got crops like administer period, you don’t stay behind. You got to still go. Cramping and everything you got to go. If you don’t hear sick call early in the morning you can forget about medical treatment for the rest of the day. That’s how it got out for my knee. Finally, I ran cross country marathon when I got my IT and I was outstanding. I ran six miles in twenty two minutes and eighteen





seconds. And they was proud of that, they used to come back because it was in the same battalion where I was with the Alpha Company and the Charlie Company I had basic training. Alpha Company I had IT so they used to come get me to encourage the younger females coming in behind us to train and they could do it and everything. The guys all laughed at me, like I was their little sister or their cousin because I trained better than most of the women did in the battalion because this was important to me to get the school I was trying. I wanted school. I wanted an education and I wanted to go to college, but when we got in the GI Bill had stopped. We found that out after we got the report saying there was no more GI Bill to go to college. I say it was rough because that was the roughest part I could find out about the military going into basic is for women’s personal hygienic needs. But other than that it was okay. And when being dressed like a man all of the time they fussed at you for putting lipstick on. ‘Cause I got fussed at for putting on lipstick, but I told them some of the best soldiers in the military wear lipstick and I was a fighter because I was temperamental, too and I was a private individual going through basic training.

Not that I couldn’t take the training but it was certain things at times I really wanted to be a female instead of acting like a man with boots and stuff on. And we only got to do that when we get a chance to go put on our class A’s. Boys are going out was outside of the question because we was in a one-unit warfare, so we had to train hard. I trained harder than the rest of them because I was older.

	R:	How was it being an African American during that time and being a woman also?





	D:	That part where I was at, it never was an issue. It never was an issue just until some of the guys, I ended up slapping a sergeant one time because he touched me and I felt it was inappropriate. I don’t know whether it was intentional or what, but he was coming through the squad behind me. I was in the third squad and the guys in the fourth squad said, “Oh, Sergeant P,” and he slapped me on the butt. So the next time it happened when he brushed me, I slapped him. That was a natural reaction ‘cause my dad taught me that a woman is not supposed to be touched inappropriately in public. And I felt if he was doing this the rest of the guys were going to take advantage of me. And I slapped him.

	R:	So how long after they began training you to be a drill sergeant did you actually become a drill sergeant?

	D:	Oh, it took a year to be a drill sergeant. Me and my husband met. We got married in Alabama. I dressed, ‘cause when I started getting sick I had gout or something, my leg swelled up real bad. So they released me out the regular Army and let me come home. And when they let me come home because I had originally was supposed to be National Guard. But I was regular Army to a training house. So, they had to turn around and since I was sick they cared for me. They got in touch with the unit because I had made a six year commitment. And go back then and send the proper paperwork and all and they let me out. I didn’t want to end my career plus the military, so I reported back to the unit here in Jacksonville. It was from November 1979 just before Thanksgiving and up until 1980 that I became a drill sergeant candidate. I took and went from Jacksonville, Florida to Livingston, Alabama in the 167th engineers. They really didn’t have a





slot for females, but I had got a job with the Sheriff’s department in Livingston, Alabama waiting on my husband to return from Korea. We weren’t married at the time but I was engaged. I had been waiting for over a year for him to return home. When we got married during January 25, 1980, by the time I got to Fort Sill, Oklahoma it was April 18, 1980. And we was finding a place for me to pull my military duty because my husband was on the 84, I didn’t have a job. I knew I could get in the National Guard or maybe switch back over to regular Army, but if I switched back over to regular Army that would put me at Fort Sam Houston, Texas. And we didn’t want to be separated. So the National Guard recruiter took me to the 95th Leadership Academy for the Reserve. When I got to the 95th leadership academy for reserve, they told me I had to report to Fort Leavenworth, Missouri, the 95th Leadership Academy for drill sergeants. They said there was going to be more women but when I got there I was the only female. It was three hundred men and just me, one woman. I was scared. That’s the first time in the military I ever got real scared. I didn’t know if I was going to complete the training or what. It took me a year, and I did it. I only messed up on one question and that was, a drill sergeant. And they said problem or not a problem if a trooper come to you and she’s pregnant. So I said, not a problem. Which was the only question I ever had a problem with. I had been seeing pregnant women come and start popping out in the military, so I didn’t think it was a problem. It was a problem. I had created the order and I ended up not flunking. No questions. So that was a plus. Then physical part I got hurt. I got tripped on the range because you know everybody acting like they drill sergeants. Some people make the wrong calls





when we go to school we trained and processed, we learn it. And I busted my right knee and almost took both my hands off. I tried to break the fall on some rolling rocks. It didn’t. But that was the most proudest school that I’ve been to in my life because it was all men and I felt it was something I really couldn’t do and didn’t really want to be. And I came up the third in line. Two guys beat me out.

One Caucasian and one African American had been to Vietnam on thirty-six missions and never got hurt. And the other one that got the distinguished drill sergeant of the United States. He was in my unit. He was a police officer, and that’s how I got back into drill sergeant school. Once I left drill sergeant school I went back to Fort Stewart, Georgia. I went travelling with my husband over the United States. I had to stay at a federal status. I was no longer state no more. So I was entitled to regular Army pay and benefits. When I came back from Germany with my husband, President Reagan sent the general in from the Pentagon in Germany to get me out. I sent him three registered letters. It was a security breach. I filed a security breach in Germany and I contacted the President of the United States which was President Ronald Reagan because I felt that was my job. Because I was supposed to report anything that was not right with the United States and he sent the general from the Pentagon to get me and get me out of Germany. That was just before they brought down the Iron Curtain from Mr. Gorbachev. Because they was coming all over around the Curtains, where we was. Eating American food, drinking America’s you know, coffee, doing wife swapping and everything and I wasn’t going to be part of that because I know the importance of not doing that. I’m in communication. Then





when I was in Billinscot my husband wasn’t paying attention. It was as if these guys were trying to kidnap me and all. So I said that my husband got in trouble, and he was being sent back to the country to Fort Riley, Kansas and I shouldn’t be left behind in the country where even those Americans and all and I’m a soldier. I’m supposed to keep my military manners. Don’t break the UCMJ. Report any incidents that not supposed to be of normal activities for us soldiers. And also, I reported. I didn’t let nobody know I did it. They told me I wasn’t going to go back home they weren’t going to let me go home but they did, though. The President and them let me come home.

	R:	How was your experience in Germany, living amongst everybody there? D:	It was only a hundred Americans, with women and children where I was.

Soldiers. Only a hundred of us on a border. We was on the outlying site where you only had six minutes to survive the time to evacuate. And they evacuate women and children first and military trained stayed behind. I was about an hour away from the Berlin border and I had been to the Bremerhaven port where all the military stuff from America was shipped into, including cars. It was a dangerous place. A guy had gotten killed on duty the night before I got there. So, to be serious I didn’t like it when it came to be stationed there. The food, some of the food was okay. But I didn’t really care because I didn’t feel comfortable being mixed in with other peoples on a military base. German peoples and then I really didn’t know the difference between the Germans and the Russians up there.

There were two men mixed in there plus a lot of terrorists. My youngest brother is





still over there. He married over there. It’s his second marriage. But for me, I wanted to come home.

	R:	What do you mean there was a lot of terrorism over there?



	D:	Because during the time that we went over there, they had just ceased a little bit from blowing up a plane over there. I don’t remember which plane it was in Germany. Terrorists, they did. Then coming out of there I had to be on a train that was on blackout because they were looking for the terrorists. They hit the train I was riding on to Frankfurt because there was a lot of terrorist activity in Germany and I didn’t feel I should stay because by me being trained for communications I could be a victim of espionage.

	R:	What exactly was your job while you were in Germany?



	D:	My job, I wouldn’t take my job over there. I was a dependent wife but I still was a soldier and I kept my eyes open because I was going to fly home in time for me to be on duty because I was on standby reserve status. I wasn’t gonna get stuck overseas. I wanted to come home.

	R:	What did your husband do over there?



	D:	My husband was a border guard. He was an infantry soldier. So he taught me a live ammo M-16 on the border. Matter of fact he taught me how to break down the M-16 for drill instructor training.

	R:	What exactly did he get in trouble for?



	D:	Drinking and wandering away he was not supposed to wander to. And they got into a fight him and one of his subordinates. He didn’t hit him back though. My husband was a different man. I would have hit him. I would have given him a





good whack. But Miles did not hit back, but anyway he got into it with his subordinate and he wouldn’t stop drinking. And he was wandering in places when he get drunk that he wasn’t supposed to be in areas. And that was against the rules. You’re not supposed to go into restricted areas in Germany. You have a certain area. We lived here, you restrict all of your drinking and all of your shopping and everything in that one location in case they filed over. He was wrong, the drinking. And he wanted one and we can’t. We didn’t have time.

When you’re evacuating to look soldiers, everybody knows to be there. That’s even in contract you know to be there.

	R:	Was there ever an occasion when you guys had to evacuate?



	D:	No, we didn’t have to evacuate but they always put us on standby alert to go to war. I was on standby alert twice to go to Iraq. The Marines when they took over the American Embassy in 1979, I was on standby on close guard in case we was gonna have to ship out.

	R:	But if you were just dependent, how did you end up contacting the President and doing all that stuff?

	D:	Because I always keep the address with me. You want to see them? I’ve got plenty addresses in Washington, D.C. I wasn’t going to get away from home and get stuck. I’m strictly American.

	R:	So how did it exactly happen?



	D:	What I did? If I’d had sent through the post they’d have got mad and acted like she don’t know what’s she talking about because they were doing it. Sometimes people don’t do what they’re supposed to. They were putting on wife swapping. I





didn’t want to be part of that either. Then, black market goes on in the country where they’re selling American goods. I didn’t get any part with that. And when you start selling American stuff and stuff you’re not supposed to—something like drugs—it’s trouble gonna start somewhere. They gonna get drunk, start a brawl or people gonna get killed behind. You know what I mean? Taking their children over there I said, “Unh-huh I’m not going to be part of this.” And that’s why I was arrested and all. A black market was going on for our products. They had black markets they products and gave them to us to sell but we had no business black marketing any American product. You have a ration card so when you are overseas as a wife or a husband, you only can buy only so much sugar, coffee, alcohol, tea and everything. And it was a lot of people buying that. We didn’t have enough soldiers to back us up if something went wrong on that border. You hear me? We right there on the Berlin border and we six k’s from the North Sea. That’s a very vulnerable location. Right there at the Iron Curtain. And people were getting drunk and Russians the Soviet Unions, they can’t handle they fire water. See what I mean? A lot of soldiers was selling off base stuff off the ration card because it didn’t bother me in my marriage because I wouldn’t personally drink a lot of stuff and then I wasn’t trying to gain a lot of weight. Some of ‘em get issued two ration cards. My husband had one ration card that was enough. See what I mean? I didn’t try to get another ration card but they was telling me about this net. I didn’t want to get involved. Like where I stay at I’m in a bad area. I’m at the edge of a bad area, you know. You had drugs and everything. I have break- ins at my house, they stole my food for fifteen months trying to break me down





and get me into the stuff that they get into. I won’t do it. I won’t do it. And I had my clothes, military uniform stolen, everything. I have no desire to be on drugs or alcohol. I couldn’t do it when I was young, I threw up a lot. And by me being sick and on pain medication and stuff, antibiotics for colds and all this sickness I have never had a desire to really want to be a drinker. I feel like I came up in a ‘shine house. I was a bootlegger’s daughter. I hated it. I hated it from a little girl.

	R:	So, that’s what your father did? D:	My mother.

	R:	Your mother?



	D:	My mother was a good lady. She ran a juke joint and restaurant. This was a dry county. We didn’t have a liquor store in this county, so they had to serve gin. It’s silly. They served quarter drinks. It’s something you shouldn’t think like that. If she was living today she’d tell you that’s how she fell about her babies. When she couldn’t work no other time no fruit jobs, no restaurant jobs, no one’s house to work in back in those days. It was rough. She was selling moonshine quite a few little bootlegs around here.

	R:	And what was the outcome of all your brothers and sisters, all eleven of them?



	D:	Okay there were eleven of us. My oldest brother got to be a second lieutenant in the Army. Joe went to the National Guard and they let him out early. I’ve been in over fifteen years, and the one next to me is Henry, me, Joe, but Nelsa she worked for the chicken company. She stuck it with the chickens. I don’t see how she could do it but she works at the nursing home out here. Rebecca works for the state hospital in Macclenny, where they take care of mental patients. Robert





work started out at the steel plant, he wanted to go to the military but of course he didn’t go to military, he ended up at Florida State Prison or Florida State Prison at Jacksonville Sheriff Department. And from the Jacksonville Sheriff Department he drives trucks and rides trucks for Blake’s Security Money Transfer. He goes out of Jacksonville in Gainesville and back and somehow did well. And then Ruth went to the military but she was the one who originally went to the National Guard. She was working process services something happened to her, her mind, she nervous you know. She’s got three kids, but she do okay because she always want to talk like she’s rich all the time. Don’t come around me talking about that rich stuff though. I’m already having problems keeping military clothes took to thinking we’ve got some money but we broke. Then after Ruth came Louise. She works at Orange Park but she got in a bad accident so she’s disabled. She really can’t work a whole lot. One of her arms was almost detached from her body and her pelvis got broke. Carolyn, she lives in Jacksonville and she says as her grandson says, “Welcome to Walmart,” out there in the River City. And then Brenda she was a CNA but I don’t really know what she’s doing. She was the one that was most overweight. Her and Rebecca always had problems by being overweight so they made a deal to, well they always trying to improve they selves. Somebody gets in a bad relationships, and that’s all of them. All eleven.

	R:	After you left Germany what course did you take after that?



	D:	Oh, Jesus please. That’s when I ran out of hell, I came home. I came home and nobody had seen me in a lot of years and I was the type of female who was quiet





and all the guys wanted to be with. And when I was coming home. I used to work on cars. Ryan, he was my buddy. My mama hated it. Most of the men were my buddies around here because I worked on cars, I stayed greased, I took electronics and raced my cars. And did main curves going out to the camp. We had a curve that they called the Dead Man’s Curve they just scared of it but I get in and just flipped it around and get their money and go back to town and stuff.

And I was looking for a job and I started working at Volunteers of America HRS Cross Creek. I drove those retarded citizens and taking them to the Special Olympics, Earth Day and I wasn’t making no money. It was real stressful, ‘cause I let them get too close to me. It was real stressful. Then I worked for the Sheriff’s Department. The Sheriff was over Macclenny had a nursery. That didn’t work out. I went to take classes to drive school buses part-time and they asked me to come back to Camp Blanding. They said since you federal and you do drill sergeant during—the service released me I think after I came from Germany. I came down so by I had got out from the Reserves and everything in May. They didn’t even let me stay out a year. I didn’t get a chance to rest and I was trying to look for other careers and lose correctional officer which they offered me the captain at UCI and everything after I was sick. I wish they had done it before I got sick. So they came to my house and they kept saying, “You’re Federal, you trained, you make things happen, you’re outstanding.” I said, “Yeah but I’m tired. I’m sick.” Well who gonna listen to me here? This is where your racial problem came in. Nowhere else in the United States I ever have a problem because of the color of my skin and being a female. When I got to Camp Blanding, Florida I went





out there on duty representing the Federal Government under UCMJ and I didn’t want to know anything about relationships. I had a husband. I was still with him. My husband rejoined me and he got a general discharge out of prison in Fort Riley, Kansas. His name was Burleigh Daniels, Jr. I’m Belinda Daniels. And they always tease me about, who’s messing up this paperwork putting BED? I wasn’t trying to be smart putting BED on the paperwork. That’s my actual initials and, you know, I enjoyed myself. The military respected me well and I respected them. And I was so used to keeping the rules so when I got down here at the 927th medical group at Camp Blanding, Florida they dolled me. They literally dolled me. They came to my house and asked me to come in for a year and try the medical training now and see how I liked it. The group had already left for Fort Mead. That left me, to still another year to finally get medically trained. So that’s two years, alright. When I got medically trained I never went back to the National Guard that much. I have read the troop medical clinic four times during the Arctic mission. Just before I got through graduate for medical training, I encountered the United States Commemoration Medal. They were so mad at me ‘cause I was a female getting a medal. I don’t really think it was because I was a Black female, I think it was just they didn’t want no females to tell them what to do. And me, I’m not going to only tell you what to do; you’re going to do it, we’re going to get the job done. That’s the type person I was. Because I was used to doing that. I had been going to parade the honor post for two weeks to a month, travelling with my husband’s stuff. When I go on that post I let them know who I am, I tell them we got a job to do, and this job gonna be done, and I’m telling you





it’s gonna be done in a certain amount of time. I’d give them a certain amount of time to get this job done. Because see, even when I was travelling with my husband I was basically mostly working in communications. So, since there was not a female slot in Alabama they gave me an equal promotion in a thirty-six kilo slot. That means I got to go to school for this. And I got the pass because I’m already promoted in this slot and that’s what they did when I got back to Georgia. I went back to Fort Gordon, Georgia again where I had already primary trained at to get thirty-six kilo alone and when I got there 31 November, they gave me everything: stringing wire, operating, trouble-shooting, whatever equipment in the communications sector of the central office supervisor. I know everything from the top to the bottom. They didn’t like that. So at Camp Blanding they wanted me to teach comma and I said, “No disrespect Major, I’m not authorized to teach communications, you have to take orders and send them to the school because it’s a very secretive school in the military; top security and if I teach you how to run this combo in all the depth, I’m gonna be in trouble.” So, they didn’t like that. That was the first strike. I have messed around at the Arctic mission when they would draw up all the inspectors in from the Pentagon in Washington, D.C. I ended up with the United States Commemoration Medal for carrying through the inspection. That’s why they wanted me out doing that post. To pass that inspection, to keep that post for Camp Blanding. They did not—the men did not lap. They did not want orders from a female. So I ended up doing, basically the work myself. When they give me orders from St. Louis, Missouri and I’m on reserve, that’s federal time. They sent me to whatever post they sent me to.





When I walk in if I’ve got to string wire communication out them fields for them guys for the generals to protect them soldiers and stuff. I told them, “Look here. Don’t look at me as a female. Look at me as a soldier. I want it done or else you get out of my face. Don’t come back, ‘cause we’re going to do this job.” Thirty minutes after I heat that site, we got the communication up. Just like, I has just came up from back home sick from training and I could have stayed in the regular army, kept going, but they needed me because I was the only one who could run the equipment. They keep this junior o in Jacksonville, 146C. I’m the first female ever gave them communication for this post I had to Tallahassee with Captain Davis and Captain Barnes. I forgot the Sergeant Major’s name. The Sergeant Major was kind of raw, but he say he got a grandson and a granddaughter when they grow up he wanted them to be just like me. I get the work done, I mean I hope. I didn’t care about being a female, I didn’t get— nobody disrespect me. So I guess I got a lot of hard trait. My momma was strong and my daddy was strong and they told me the best way to do things was to be honest, stay in the Bible, don’t steal, don’t cheat, get your work done. That’s the way that she raised me. Because we had nine sisters and brothers under me, but when I go out of there. Janise talked to me some. But most of the soldiers didn’t like me so what they did, they took me away from their unit after I walked the team inspectors to the Pentagon in Washington. They took me and put me in the clinic, federal duty. I get no credit for none of my federal time I did out there, federal duty. When they closed down after a year it was a lovely year with the clinic. They kept the clinic open for all the soldiers come in medical treatment and





everything and we started having family and friends in September. I had a friend called Maria. She was Spanish but she was my sweetheart. She was a good friend I could count on even when I went to the hospital and lost my babies I trusted her to go to my house. And that’s something I didn’t trust people to do, to go in my house. And she had to drive way around the lake and get me something to dress in. But we had to get the job done in the military. It’s not important whether you male or female. What’s important is we accomplished the mission, and I did that. And I was kind of hard. They knew I was a drill sergeant I helped Bradford High with the ROTC, and I was someone on post I liked it, but my job came first and everything. When I was doing all this here did everybody want to put in for Commemoration? No sir. You can’t order a Commemoration Medal like you order out of Sears Roebuck and it kind of makes me feel bad ‘cause I know I was doing an outstanding job and everything. So they took me away from there and put me back into medical training. I left the troop medical clinic. I started building a home since I was the only female in the United States to build a home. I was a Black female at Camp Blanding CSMS building the homes. They had one Caucasian female in Honduras building these homes and I liked that ‘cause I got a chance to test my job, what I did. I wonder if I did, ‘cause I said I did a good job but it could have fell apart. And he used the L pack wrench because this would lock up. My fingers and elbows. I have never been diagnosed with rheumatoid arthritis. I never knew that ‘cause they didn’t have no rheumatologists in the military. They gave me not an ounce of credit for being Federal Government. I’m pulling two types of duty. I’m pulling fed time, I’m pulling state time. I gotta say





when I went to the VA Hospital in Lake City, they lost me, they stripped me of all my awards. They left the honorable discharge there but they stripped me of my awards. The men couldn’t stand it because they couldn’t handle me. They didn’t tell me what to do. I’m not gonna hide from ‘em. I could rescue my boots, my flight suit. I stayed in the area of Camp Blanding. I drove to Georgia and won a suit. I lost no patients. I never lost a patient. We had one patient that died the whole time I helped ran the clinic. And that’s because they wouldn’t let the trauma chopper land. I wasn’t intending to let our guys die out there in training and stuff. We had so many head casualties. We had heat stroke, heat exhaustion, where people would have their hearts blocked and stuff. I put the portable EKG machine on them, what the military sent us to use. We had all the modern equipment we needed at Camp Blanding. And all our work in federal and state. My pay for everyday work came from federal. My National Guard paid even though I wasn’t going to the unit. I was working seven days a week, that’s ‘round the clock until Washington found out. We used to work seven days a week. They told them they couldn’t work us seven days a week. I left on one job ‘til—I worked the building the homes in the GS5 position. Then they started peeking at how I didn’t have a high school diploma. How did I get into the military without a high school diploma and GED? That was impossible. I had my GED. I still got it.

People using they power of persuasion, go around—I just now got a copy of my GED after all these years. Then they was using my job in the courtroom. How do you go in the court reference and take a woman’s job codes and think she graduate, when she fought for school hard? That’s how I was treated here.





	R:	Do you have any closing messages, any outgoing messages that you want to say?

	D:	Yes. I hope that the soldiers that come back from proud services get more respect when they join the National Guard Reserve and the VA Hospitals understand that they proud service. They’re not trying to steal from the government. They just need medical treatment. I’ve been hurting, I’ve been suffering. And people, they been kicking me around, taking my stuff that I earned. Right here. And a lot of it is prejudice and jealousy. I’m not racist, but womens or even a male they didn’t reach their accomplishments. It’s a lot of peoples here that never went to school, never passed the fifth grade, and I’ve been breaking my neck as they know in Washington I’ve been aggravating for us to get more funding here. And stuff to help these people. And programs like the small Veteran Day event is better than no Veterans Day event. When you all take the time to interview peoples.

	R:	Okay. Thank you very much for the interview, this was Julian Ruiz with Belinda Elaine Daniels. Thank you.

[End of Interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, January 19, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 21, 2019