AAHP 119; Brown; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 119 Lottie Mae White Brown African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on August 22, 2010 24 minutes | 16 pages



Abstract: Lottie Mae White Brown grew up in Lamont, Florida, and describes her family’s history that includes Sermon, Florida, and Colquitt, Georgia. Her family worked as sharecroppers in Lamont, and she attended school three months out of the year. She participated in the Jerkins High Reunion partly because at the time of the interview she lived across the street from the building, but she also obtained her GED from Jerkins later in life. She mentions some of the Jerkins teachers who were influential in her life, and asserts that just being near Jerkins and interacting with the people involved in it was empowering to her. Ms. Brown describes what it was like to work as a domestic worker in Perry, which was where she was when she learned Martin Luther King Jr. had been shot. She also offers some messages to today’s youth.





Keywords: [African American History; Jefferson County, Florida; Taylor County, Florida; Jerkins High School]



Standards

1. SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 119

Interviewer: Marna Weston Interviewee: Lottie Mae White Brown Date: August 22, 2010



	W:	This is Marna Weston with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program at New Brooklyn Missionary Baptist Church in Perry, Florida on August 22, 2010. Ms. Brown, thank you very much for speaking with me. Could you please give your full name and your date of birth?

	B:	Lottie Brown. Date of birth is December the 25th of 1928. W:	Is Lottie Brown your full name at birth?

	B:	No. Lottie White. Lottie Mae White is my full birth name. W:	And, you were born here in Perry?

	B:	No, I was born in Lamont, Florida. W:	In where?

	B:	Lamont, Florida. It’s between here and Tallahassee.



	W:	Okay, yeah I know where Lamont is—on twenty-seven as you go— B:	Yeah.

	W:	Okay, I know exactly where that is. Who were your mother and father?



	B:	My mother was Lizzie Tolliver, Elizabeth Tolliver. My daddy was Fred White. W:	And, where were they from?

	B:	Lamont, Florida.



	W:	And, can you tell me about your mother’s mother and father?



	B:	My grandmother was named Mary Tolliver. My grandfather was named Elijah Tolliver.

	W:	And, where were they from?



	B:	My granddaddy was from Georgia.







W:

Do you know what part of Georgia?

B:

Colquitt, Georgia.

W:

Colquitt, Georgia?

B:

Colquitt, Georgia. My grandmother was from Florida, between Greenville and—



what you call that? Sermon! Sermon, Florida.

W:

Just like a sermon that you preach?

B:

Yeah, like a sermon, but that’s the name of this country place.

W:

Okay.

B:

It’s a country place.

W:

What county is Sermon in?

B:

Madison.

W:

Madison County.

B:

Mhmm.

W:

How about your Daddy’s mother and father?

B:

They all was born there in Lamont.

W:

And what were their names?

B:

My granddaddy was named Herman White. My daddy’s side. My grandmother



was named Sarah White.

W:

Now, do you know about any grandparent’s parents? Your great-grandparents,



do you know them at all?

B:

No, I don’t know them. No, I don’t know them.

W:

And you went to Jerkins High School?





	B:	Yeah, I went to Jerkins at a later age. I got my GED from Jerkins. Out there where we went to school out in the country, it was so far to walk. And, I went to Georgia, and after I married and moved over in Perry from Colquitt, and went to Jerkins, and got my GED.

	W:	What is your graduating class year? B:	It was in 1956.

	W:	Can you tell me about your earliest education? Where did you first go to school?



What was the name of it and what was it like?



	B:	All I know, it was Jefferson County—Madison County Elementary School.



Between here and Lamont. Some lady got some quilts out there now where the school used to be. And we stayed right back of there. They was sharecroppers and me. That was my first place and my first teacher was named Mr. Bowman; first teacher back long then. One school carried every class. We didn’t go no further than the eighth grade. You couldn’t go no further. When you get to eighth grade, that’s when they start teaching back long and then.

	W:	Now, you mentioned something about sharecropping. So, you grew up on a farm?

	B:	Right. I grew up on a farm sharecropping with my grandmother who raised me.



Mary Tolliver, she raised me.



	W:	What kind of things did you do on the farm?



	B:	I didn’t do nothing. [Laughter] But they picked cotton, shaked peanuts they call them, pick corn and stuff like that. Cotton was mostly the main thing long and then they were picking. But whole cotton. They say chop fence. People don’t do





that now—chop fence. If a fire come, it won’t get that field. And plow. I have plowed. Me and my uncle one time, my grandmother and all of her other children, her growner children, left, me and him made a farm. He plowed one mule and I plowed the other one. That’s the way that my grandmamma and my auntie did the horn of it. We sharecropped. You got paid after the crop was made. [Laughter] It was bad long and then. We didn’t go to school at day, we only went to school three months. Three winter months, then the school was out. You had to go to the field then. And those that didn’t work in the field had to stay home and tend to the smaller ones.

	W:	Hold on for one second. U:	Thank you, sir.

[Break in Recording]



	W:	Okay, this is part two of the interview with Ms. Brown after I checked to make sure that we were recording. You were telling about growing up on a sharecropping farm, going to school for three months a year, and then school being over. Did you have any brothers and sisters?

	B:	No. Not then. I didn’t have no brothers and sisters. I was eighteen years old when the next one—when my brothers and sister, then I had four.

	W:	And what were their names?



	B:	Ruby Newton, Edward Newton, Frederick Copeland, and Jerome Drake after that.

	W:	And were you the oldest, the youngest? What order were you all in? Oh yeah, you were the oldest because eighteen years old.





	B:	I was eighteen years old. That’s right.



	W:	What do you think has been the biggest change in this area from the time that you were eighteen to the time of now?

	B:	It’s much bigger change. It’s more educated peoples. It’s more loving peoples.



They was loving long and then, but you didn’t have to lock your house and all this stuff. There’s more crimes now than it was then. You can’t leave your door open now, because long and then you didn’t have to, wherever you lived, you didn’t have to. Because if somebody go in there, the neighbors was gone tell it.

Neighbors don’t do like they used to do. They used to where if you leave your house, they would watch your house for you and wouldn’t nobody go in there. But, now, everybody for theyself and God for us all. [Laughter] That’s just the way it is. But, it’s worser now than it was then.

	W:	Now, how did you end up here at this Jerkins Reunion this weekend? How did you find out about this, and why are you here?

	B:	I live there in front of it. I can see Jerkins from my house. I was married when my sisters and brothers went there. I always didn’t want them to grow up like I did.

And when they went to Jerkins, I was out there too! And when Jerkins needed something I was there to help. I was always there to help Jerkins. That’s why when they got graduated, that’s what made me go back and try again; at night. I went to night school at Jerkins, but I been with Jerkins here bout every since they been built there. My home is in Jerkins Heights they call it, and I’m looking right at the school all the time.

	W:	Did you know the principal of the school when you went to night school there?





	B:	Yeah.



	W:	Can you tell me a little bit about the principal?



	B:	Well, all I can you—oh, I can’t call his name now. W:	Was it Mr. Smith?

	B:	No.



	W:	Mr. Warren?



	B:	Warren!



	W:	Okay.



	B:	Mr. Warren.



	W:	See, I’ve learned a lot this weekend! [Laughter]



	B:	Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Mr. Warren. That’s who it was, but he was the principal then. Well it soon it went down regular after he was principal. But, he was the principal then.

	W:	Now, the night school. That must have been a great—it was a convenience for you to be able to get your education like that, to have the community night school.

	B:	Yeah, right.



	W:	What do you think about the fact that schools don’t do that as much anymore?



You know to have the community together with the school, the night school.



	B:	I think it’s awful because when I went to Jerkins, it was nice that you could go back—the older people. A lady was much older than me—she graduated. You can go back because I had learned a lot out there in the world when I worked. I had learned a lot from the education I had got, because I hadn’t went no further





than the third grade on the farm. I had learned a lot just self, and when I went back to school a lot of it by looking at my sisters and brothers books, and they getting lessons, and they talking about different things. I learned a lot, and it was easy for me to go back to school, because I know a lot and I knew a lot. But they taught me! I think it’s bad now that they can’t do that. It ought to come back. It should come back again—that they be able to go somewhere at night to school and get an education.

	W:	So if it hadn’t been for Jerkins and that adult education program, you’d have never gotten your high school.

	B:	I would have never gotten high school. I was able to go to the vocational school after that and get a trade. It was in cooking, but still, I got a degree in it. I was able to get jobs more better. I recommend anybody if they can. By you being old, which is I’m eighty-two years old, that still don’t stop you from getting an education. [Laughter] I recommend you get an education. That’s what you need. because the way time is it ain’t like it was now, I mean back yonder when I come up. You need a little education, because the peoples will beat you out of everything you got.

	W:	So, Jerkins made that possible for you. They gave you confidence and the education.

	B:	Yes, sir. By being out there ‘round Jerkins, I stayed so close some of the teachers were rooming with the ladies in front of me. She’s right down there now.

	W:	What’s her name? B:	Ms. Hazel Williams.





	W:	Oh yeah Ms. Williams who—she spoke at the church. B:	Yeah.

	W:	So she was your teacher?



	B:	No. She wasn’t my teacher, she was my neighbor. W:	Oh. Okay.

	B:	And I’m the one that went to Tallahassee and got involved here. Because she was my neighbor. And she helped me by she teaching me. And she a great lady. Some of the teachers stayed over there with her. Ms. Rosa Hill lives in Tallahassee now. She stayed there and another lady Ms. Campbell. She stayed there. By them being there—and I would go and they would call me to go to the store for the teachers and things, I was just being mentored by being there - I learned a lot in that. All of them knew me—the teachers of Jerkins.

	W:	Are you still in contact with Ms. Rosa now?



	B:	Oh, yeah! I calls her every now and then. Yeah.



	W:	And how is she doing? Is she in good health? Good spirits?



	B:	She’s in Bethel A.M.E. She’s the choir director and she’s been playing in Tallahassee. Bethel A.M.E. She been there for years.

	W:	Well, I’m going to ask you how to get in touch with her before we finish the interview.

	B:	I got her…I think, I got her phone number at the house, but I don’t know. She done changed around so, but at Bethel A.M.E. in Tallahassee. Do you know where that at?

	W:	I can find it.





B:  Okay, it’s like you going to the fairground, but you turn there at that big red light and go up in there. Bethel A.M.E. You can get in touch with her there.

W: Okay, thank you. B:  Mhmm.

W:  Do you think that there has been a big change in the schools from the time they were segregated and now, with them being integrated? What do you think is the biggest change in the schools?

B:   Well, the biggest change is now, well, I don’t want to say, but I’ll say it, the Black is not being taught what they should.

W:   What do you mean by that?



B:  What I mean by that if they’ll take time and learn the others, but they’ll just say, “You go ahead on you mark it down that you done fail.” But, not take time, you ain’t see why you fail. That’s the thing. What’s going in your life? Why you fail? Take more time with them, that’s what they should do.

W:  How did the teachers before? What they did they do that helped take the right amount of time, and get the kids to learn more?

B:  If they wasn’t doing good, they’d make them stay in school, after school, and get them there and show them. Because they say that lady down there, Ms.

Williams, she had her paddle. If she had to tell you words she’d hit you every time she—. [Laughter] The best and worst thing they did, and I know why they did it when they take paddling out of school.

	W:	Why do you think they did that?



	B:	They didn’t want the others hitting their child.





	W:	You’re saying White people didn’t want a Black teacher hitting their child?



	B:	Thank you! Thank you! That’s what it was, they didn’t want that. Some of them don’t care now, but long and then it was real bad.

	W:	It was a sensitive subject back then? B:	Right. Real bad.

	W:	One of the things that I’m finding more and more about in the community is that there were a lot of schools around here that burned down and so therefore the education was kind of separated. They didn’t have a Black school—except at Boyd. Are you familiar with why these schools were burning down?

	B:	No, I wasn’t here then. I wasn’t here. I was only at Jerkins. When I moved over here, they was having schools at different places—churches. Then they built Jerkins.

	W:	Have you heard anything through the years about why people think the schools were burning down?

	B:	No. I haven’t heard anything.



	W:	This has been a great celebration this weekend. I’ve been here since Friday and you still hear that people are here on Sunday and they’re laughing and talking with each other.

	B:	Right.



	W:	What do you think is the spirit of Jerkins that brings people together like this all these years later?

	B:	Oh, Jerkins was a good school. And, they had the togetherness. You find one or two that didn’t want to agree it, but Jerkins was on one accordingly. They was on





one accordingly. And they worked together, the ones that I was around, and I was around all of them, they tried to work together. That was the main object at Jerkins—working together. You can make it if you work together.

	W:	If you could give a lesson to the students of today, that don’t have the benefit of a school like Jerkins, what would the lesson that you would give them be?

	B:	The lesson that I would give them? Pay attention to what’s going on, learn, keep your mouth closed and you can learn more—you can learn more by keeping your mouth closed. Keep your mouth closed, and don’t have no attitude. That, “I’m here and he White,” or “I’m Black and we this.” Don’t have no attitude of what color. Learn your lesson.

	W:	Do you remember the first time you ever voted?



	B:	Yeah, I remember that. The first I voted, I had to go to the courthouse. W:	What courthouse and what year was it?

	B:	I can’t exactly remember what year—it’s been so long. What year? But, it was in Perry Courthouse. Perry Courthouse. It was in there. It was in the [19]50s, the late [19]50s.

	W:	Did you have any problems getting over there, or you just went and registered and voted?

	B:	Didn’t have no problem at all, because long and then—I’m going to tell you how it was. According to who you worked for. And I worked for one of the big ones, so I didn’t have no problems. Like, people tell me now a lot of the White folks they know me, but that was why. And I kept my mouth shut and I tended my business.

	W:	And you kept your vote to yourself.





	B:	Thank you! [Laughter] I kept my vote to myself.



	W:	Now, who did you work for that it made it easy, and nobody asked you questions?

	B:	I worked for E.O. Lynn. His boy take care of me now. His son, Robert Lynn. W:	Is that L-Y-N-N?

	B:	L-Y-N-N.



	W:	What did the Lynn family do? What was their business? What were they involved in?

	B:	Well, long and then, I would cook for them and clean up. They son, the one that taking care of me now, he was in the third grade when I started working for them. I worked for them until they died, and the Momma told the son don’t never let me suffer. And God knows I haven’t. If you see what I’m driving, you’ll know what I mean.

	W:	[Laughter] What was the other mother and father’s names?



	B:	Her name was Mertis Lynn and his name was Elanzo Lynn. E. O. Lynn. W:	And they were from here in Perry?

	B:	From Perry. Both of them born here in Perry.



	W:	Do you remember where you were when you heard that President Kennedy had been killed?

	B:	Yeah, I remember where I was. I was right there in her house when I heard it, while I was working to their house right there and we all just—we didn’t know what to do. Because Kennedy was one of their favorites too. Yeah, Kennedy was one of they favorites. We didn’t know what to do. I went home—I wasn’t finished





working, but they told me to go home because they was mourning, too. They sure did.

	W:	What was your impression of President Johnson after he became president and he started his programs?

	B:	Well, I just always say, whoever they elect I just serve under them. That’s whoever. Whoever they elect I just serve under them, because they can’t do everything by theyself, they got somebody doing with them too.

	W:	Do you remember where you were when you heard that Dr. King had been killed?

	B:	I can’t think of it—I was to they house. Yeah, I was to they house. The daddy was in mourning. The Momma, she was kind of prejudice. I put it that way. She was kind of prejudice.

	W:	What was it like around here when that happened? Were people upset? This is more in the rural area, so it probably wasn’t like the city.

	B:	A lot of Black folks was upset. A lot of White folks was glad, and they didn’t mind owning it neither. “They ought to have that King dead now.” But, afterwards, they went along with what King said, and what he had planned. They got much better to the Blacks, they had much understanding. They used to not even shake your hand. Now they’ll come up and hug you. They got much more better than it was before.

	W:	Do you remember where you were when you heard they had landed on the moon for the first time?





	B:	No, I can’t remember where that was. I can’t remember what year that was. I cannot remember that.

	W:	Who was your favorite president?



	B:	Whew! Well, besides who I got now, Kennedy. W:	Okay.

	B:	[Laughter]



	W:	So, Obama and then Kennedy?



	B:	Obama and Kennedy was my favorite ones.



	W:	Do you have a favorite entertainer? A musician, like Ray Charles or somebody whose music that you really liked through the years?

	B:	Well, I’m a spiritual singer. W:	Yes, ma’am.

	B:	And, Ray Charles, I used to like his music. Yeah, I used to like Ray Charles, but…

	W:	Ella James, Cab Calloway, any of that?



	B:	Cab Calloway, I didn’t care too much about him. But, what’s this old gospel singer name?

	W:	Mahalia Jackson?



	B:	Mahalia Jackson! That was my girl. W:	She was big.

	B:	Yeah.



	W:	She couldn’t get no bigger for a while.





	B:	Yeah, that’s what they call me—Lil’ Mahalia. [Laughter] That’s what they call me now when I sing, Lil’ Mahalia. Listen at Lil’ Mahalia.

	W:	Do you still sing now? B:	Oh, yes, sir.

	W:	Would you mind doing a bar or two for the record?



	B:	Okay. [Sings] There is so much that the Lord has done for me. When I, when I was a sinner He set me free. Oh, yes, he did ya’ll. All of my burdens, He helped me bare. All my crosses, ya’ll, He helped me share. I can’t you pay you, Lord, but I can tell you Lord, thank you, sir. [Laughter] Yes, sir.

	W:	That was really good. Thank you. B:	Thank you. Yes, sir.

	W:	You got a little tear, you reminded me of my grandma there a little bit. I’m going to have to give you a little hug.

	B:	Yes, sir. Yes, sir. [Laughter] Thank you! I can’t pay Him, but I can tell Him, thank you. Whew! Thank you, sir. Thank you.

	W:	Very unexpected.



	B:	Yes, sir.



	W:	So, let’s first wipe our eyes and pull it all together. Why is this such a good weekend that it’s bringing people to tears?

	B:	Why it’s a good weekend? Well, with everybody been wanted a Jerkins reu—a get together. And this is something they been wanting to make it better, make it so much good, because that what they wanted. You got to want something to get it done, and you got to work at it. And I’m so proud of those that worked for it. I’m





proud of them; this old girl. I couldn’t come and sing with them. I’ve been having problems with my feet, but I’m just glad to be here today, and I just thank God for them. Thank you.

	W:	I’m glad you’re here too. B:	Yes.

	W:	Ms. Brown, thank you so much for the interview. On behalf of the program, we are very glad to have talked with you. And I just want to close the interview by giving you a chance to say anything you want to say, and when you get done with that that’ll be the end.

	B:	Well, I’ve said it all. I’ve said it all. I’m just glad to be here, and I thank God for it.



Pray for me I keep singing. [End of Interview]





	Audit-Edited by:	Jennifer Romero June 13, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 19, 2019