AAHP 020; Williams and Reaves; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 020 Juanita Scott Williams African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on May 14, 2010 1 hour, 9 minutes | 43 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Juanita Scott Williams was joined by her sister, Laura Scott Reaves to describe their lives in Taylor County, Florida. They live on a street that was named after their father, Elmo Scott Avenue because their family owns the entire block of property by the street. As far as school goes, Laura’s school was burned down, so they had to have school in various churches because they didn’t have a building to serve as a school. Juanita has a Master of Education from Florida A&M University. She worked as a teacher in Taylor County, Lafayette County, and Thomasville, Georgia for 36 years and made sure that her daughter went to college as well. Her daughter faced a good amount of racial discrimination in school, from both other students and administration, but she worked through it and received a Doctorate in Pharmacology from Florida A&M University.





Keywords: [African American History; Education; Taylor County, Florida; Jerkins High School; Florida A&M]



Standards

	SS.912.A.1.2 Utilize a variety of primary and secondary sources to identify author, historical significance, audience, and authenticity to understand a historical period.

	SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.

	SS.912.A.2.5 Jim Crow laws





















For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 020

Interviewee: Juanita Scott Williams and Laura Scott Reaves Interviewer: Marna Weston

Date: May 14, 2010



	MW:	My name is Marna Weston. JW:	My name is Juanita Scott. MW:	Nice to meet you, Ms. Scott. JW:	Nice to meet you.

	MW:	I am a graduate student at the University of Florida and I’m working on my doctorate in agriculture.

	JW:	Okay.



	MW:	However, I also work as the coordinator of the African American History Project at the University of Florida.

	JW:	Oh, okay.



	MW:	So we’re trying to gather information about the history of Taylor County and people of color that lived here. This is how I’ve come to be at this table today.

	JW:	Oh, okay. [Laughter] What can I add to it?



	MW:	Well, any memories that you have of growing up. I’d like to talk to you a little bit about your earliest memories and your family and anything that you would like to talk about after that. Your education, your children, what it’s like to live here.

	JW:	Oh.



	MW:	Why you live here instead of somewhere else, because we all have the choice to live in other places if we choose to.

	R:	We was born out there in that country. She was born after daddy built their pen. But I was out there in that graveyard. Before daddy come home pissing drunk. That’s where I was born.







	JW:	I was born over there?



	R:	You was born in that house over there. Edwin was born in that house over there, so was Vearl.

	MW:	So this is new information for you today. [Laughter] JW:	That part, I didn’t know where I was born.

	R:	You didn’t? [Laughter] Well I was there! The oldest, doing all the work! [Laughter] MW:	You remember the day she was born?

	LS:	Yes. I had to, momma had to have help. I was big old girl then. MW:	What was that like? So you were a midwife.

	R:	I wasn’t no midwife, now. MW:	No.

	R:	I was the oldest daughter. [Laughter] MW:	Okay, so you were just helping.

	R:	Yeah, I was just over there washing dishes standing on a block [Laughter] And doing things to help Mama. Yeah. Juanita, I thought you knew you was born over there. In that room right there.

	JW:	I never given it a thought.



	R:	Vearl was born the next year. I missed my grade. And I did all that crying. [Laughter]

	MW:	Was there a midwife present, or who helped deliver your sister? R:	Oh, Jessie Tyson, she delivered White and Black.

	MW:	Jessie Tyson.



	R:	Yeah, she’s a Black woman. Well, she just went around doing all that thing.







	MW:	Did she live close to here, or was it a special trip to have come over and deliver your sister that day?

	R:	Well she lived on this side of town, too, and it was easy for her to come, but when she had to go on the other side of town, you know, somebody was having a baby? Well she would probably walk, unless they would come and get her in the wagon, at that earliest time, but now later time the doctors come in you add one of them early cars you might know the name of.

	MW:	The Model T?



	R:	Model T, you got it. [Laughter]



	MW:	Okay. Do you remember what the day was like that your sister was born? R:	This one?

	MW:	Uh-huh.



	R:	She was born in October. It wasn’t cold.



	MW:	It was not cold. Was it early in the morning? Was it middle of the night? Was it middle of the day?

	R:	I don’t know. Vearl was born and Howard was born at night. MW:	Oh. At night.

	R:	But I done forgot whether Juanita come in the morning or at night. But I know them two boys.

	MW:	Uh-huh.



	JW:	My daughter was born nine twenty-two. I know. MW:	Nine twenty-two.

	JW:	Nine twenty-two, November 12.







	LS:	You talking about your daughter over there. She has a smart daughter in Miami.



She finishing that lawyer studies down there. And now she’s doing some of everything.

	MW:	Well, let me direct some of my questions toward you, and just let you know that this interview is to be added to the oral history archives at the University of Florida. We wanted to make sure that people everywhere can know about Taylor County and its history, because believe it or not, Taylor County is one of the places where people acknowledge that a lot of things happened, but nobody has written about them and published them. It’s not something that is widely—people talk about Rosewood in 1920, and people talk about Ocoee, which happened afterwards, but—

	R:	Rosewood here.



	JW:	Do you have any written literature or anything anywhere? MW:	There is no written literature about Taylor County; very little. JW:	Very little.

	MW:	Do I have written literature? Yes, I have my master’s thesis.



	JW:	No, no, no I was talking about…some literature for you to look at. Now there was something, Pat Rozier was writing up, and I do have copies of that.

	M:	Pat Rozier?



	JW:	Mmhm. Pat Rozier was a student here at one time, but she’s in Washington, D.C. now.







	MW:	Mmhm. Well I’d be happy to hear about her as well. Let me provide some background, so when I listen to this later on I’ll know who I was speaking with. Would you please state your full name? Yes.

	JW:	My full name is Juanita D. Scott. MW:	What does the D stand for?

	JW:	Delores.



	MW:	When were you born? JW:	October 6, 1932.

	MW:	And we’re here in the home of your sister at 115 Elmo Street? South Elmo Street? Elmo Scott Street.

	R:	Yeah, that’s the name of my daddy. MW:	Elmo Scott Avenue, and that’s your father. JS:	That is our daddy

	M:	Have you always lived here?



	LS:	She’s always lived on this street. It was us that moved in from that storm-stricken area. Did you tell me it was in—?

	M:	1928, if it was the 1920s, if you were in the second grade.



	R:	Storm tore up that house, and they had brought us over there in that little three- room house. Before he built. And they was so glad. And we went running in that house.

	MW:	Well there was another big storm in [19]35, but maybe that didn’t come through here. Or did it?

	JW:	Yes it did.







R:   Yes it did.



MW: You were three years old. JW:  Mmhm.

MW:  Do you remember that storm?



JW: Not that much. I remember seeing everything just… cleared away. You know, it just look clean out there, like someone had just cleaned everything. But not that much.

MW: What is your earliest memories of your parents, and living at home, what was it like when you were very young with them?

JW:  What was it really like over there?



	MW:	Yeah, do you have any memories come to mind? Maybe you had a pet, or maybe you had some chores, or maybe a special day happened with you and your family your brothers and sisters, what was it like from your very young eyes to look at the world with your parents?

	JW:	A definite thing was to go to school and…just go to school and… just go to school, basically, and go to whatever there was going on at the church or wherever you had to go. And you had to obey, I tell you that. What else? You were vocalized in you going and we were not allowed to, like, roam around, we had to do—in the backyard and share and play with each other. Now it was thirteen, so you didn’t get lonesome for anybody to play with.

	MW:	Did you have chores that you had to do? JW:	Oh my! [Laughter]







	R:	Like, we had to go off to work, and she was pitiful, we left her with all these brothers! [laughter] She had a lot of work to do. What did you like to cook, peas and greens and things? No, if we pick ‘em and peel ‘em for her she would cook and eat ‘em, but mama had her doing so much work. I was gone, and the other three girls she had.

	MW:	So you—?



	JW:	Homework was very definite, and my mother was ill. She had ulcerated stomach. And I remember one thing in particular. I had—my girlfriends were out there, and they were playing ball, and I had to do the greens. And my mother was ill, and she was in the room, right there, next to the pump. I had to pump water to wash these greens, while the kids were out there playing ball. So I said, going in the house with those greens, the one that eat the most greens, eat the most grit! [Laughter]

	R:	Juanita, you didn’t wash it?



	JW:	I washed them two times, but Gloria and Vearl and Alfonso and everybody was like, “They’re playing ball,” and I wanted to play, too! [Laughter]

	R:	Boy, if Mama had found that out. JW:	She found it out!

	R:	What did she say! [Laughter] JW:	And from that day to this one— R:	You wash the greens good?

	JW:	I have not washed, I have not cooked, any gritty greens. Those greens were so gritty, you could push the greens to the side in the pot and there’ll be dirt over







there. And that dirt caused those greens to be gritty. And actually, when you would chew down on the green, you would chew grit! And I got a spanking.

	MW:	See, that’s something that a kid today wouldn’t even know what that is. When you say you got a spanking, what do you mean?

	JW:	What do I mean?



	MW:	Mmhm.



	JW:	I mean, my mother whipped me! She got from sick, disgusted about her dinner, and actually whipped me.

	MW:	So she found some energy.



	JW:	She found some energy! [Laughter]



	MW:	Now was it with a switch, or was it with a belt, or do you remember? JW:	Yeah, it was with a switch from outside.

	MW:	Did you have to go get the switch? JW:	And guess what, I had to go and get it.

	MW:	You had to go get it. My grandma used to make me go get the switch, too. [Laughter]

	JW:	Oh, she did?



	MW:	Yes ma’am. That was part of me, you had to go get it. And you better not bring back no little one either.

	JW:	You had to go get it. And believe it or not, you better not run. MW:	No, no, no, you couldn’t run! [Laughter]

	JW:	Oh, boy.



	MW:	So what other chores did you have besides the greens?







	JW:	Oh, there were many things to do. You had to make up the beds, and sweep the floor, and all these kinds of things, because there was thirteen of us. And there was one person, my dad, was working, making saw mill salary, and of course my mom was taking in washing and ironing.

	MW:	When you say she was taking in washing and ironing, what do you mean?



	JW:	I mean she was—White people would bring their clothes to the house, and she would wash them on the rubber wood outside, and hang them outside. Then she would bring them in and iron them. Incidentally, she was ironing with the smoothing iron, and the ironing board was the fireplace.

	MW:	When you say a smoothing iron, you say it wasn’t electric, you didn’t plug it in. JW:	It wasn’t electric.

	MW:	Okay, so she had to heat up the iron separately.



	JW:	She had to heat up the iron separately, and the handle would be hot. Then she had to use a separate bath cloth, or whatever it was, to hold this iron, and to iron those people White shirts.

	MW:	She did that for extra money, or…? JW:	She did that for extra money.

	MW:	Mmhm. How many families did she take in washing and ironing for? JW:	Several.

	MW:	Mmhm. And they were happy to have her do it?



	JS:	They were happy to have her do it. They would bring them back over and over.



And sometimes, if she needed to, she would send my brothers with the red wagon, about so big, to go and get them.







	MW:	Okay, so “so big,” I’m saying that’s about… a foot and a half?



	JS:	No, it was bigger than a foot and a half, could be two, two, three inches. When I say that I’m talking about a wagon ‘bout…three, three foot.

	MW:	Three foot wide. Now how high off the floor are you showing me? JW:	Just about that high.

	MW:	Okay, so about—



	JW:	A wagon, you’ve seen a wagon. MW:	Like a little red wagon?

	JW:	Little red wagon.



	MW:	Okay.



	JW:	Only thing, it was a big one! [Laughter]



	MW:	Uh-huh. [Laughter] So, okay, there were chores, and your dad worked at the mill, and your mom took in laundry. What other kind of things happened around your house when you were growing up? Did relatives come over? Did you have big dinners, was there singing, was there entertainment? What kind of things did you do at your house?

	JW:	We always had a piano. My brother Edward played for the church, and my brother Howard—they’re dead now—played around at school, and all those kind of things. Incidentally, I played for my church forever.

	MW:	So you learned how to play the piano, and— JW:	I did, a little bit.

	MW:	Most of your other brothers and sisters learned how to play, too? Or they all played some kind of instrument?







	JW:	No. Well, my brother Howard played saxophone. MW:	Okay.

	JW:	Mmhm. That’s the only one that I believe played sax. Yeah, that’s the only one.



	MW:	Do you ever remember any trouble when you were growing up? Problems with some of the neighbors, or some of the kids, or things that were taking place that you all were unsure or scared about?

	JW:	I think I told you initially that we didn’t get a lot of places without supervision, so there were less problems. My mother didn’t allow us to be over there and over there, unsupervised and roaming. You had to be where she knew where you were. If she let me go over to my friend’s house, I better be back home by the time that sun turns red looking over there, or I’m called a midnight rambler. [Laughter] We didn’t have a whole lot of…let’s call it, behavior problems. We were not angels, so to speak. We had minor stuff, but nothing big. We weren’t jail freaks, because were in the backyard playing.

	MW:	I think what I kind of meant was problems from the community, toward you and your family or toward other Black people. Were there problems that you remember from your childhood? Things that happened that people knew, oh this was a bad thing and…

	JW:	Like?



	MW:	Well, for example people would ask, considering Taylor County, things about Klan activity, or maybe there would have been people that wanted some property or something that somebody else had, and because they were a Black person they were kind of maybe—strongly persuaded to give up those interests for







somebody else. Do you recall any of those things kind of happening as you grew up in Taylor County?

	JW:	Now, she would probably be best to answer that, because I don’t remember. I can remember when a Black person moves into a community, that community you see signs going up on the opposite race[‘s] property for sale. “For Sale,” “For Sale.” And when you know anything, the White folk just—I didn’t mean to even say their name—the opposite race, they just gone. They not there anymore.

	MW:	And you’ve seen that happen, many times.



	JW:	I’ve seen that happen! It is happening, now, in the quarters, where we call the “latest quarters,” where there is Alice Street, and Sarah Street, and all of those kind. A few Black people moved in there, and they still have empty houses over there. And those opposite race people that just can’t afford to move are still in there, but they are basically gone. I’m talking about in reference to the French Quarters over there.

	R:	I know. I know what they doing over there.



	JW:	Now, she could probably tell you something about schools burning and all this kind of thing that we don’t, I wouldn’t really know about.

	MW:	Okay, we talked about school. What are your earliest memories of going to school? What’s the first school that you went to?

	JW:	The first school that I went to was, Jerkins High School. MW:	Okay, and—

	R:	Jerkins was there when you went first time? You didn’t go to the White building?



What is the name of the White man that gave us all this money? Carnegie?







	MW:	Rosenwald, there was a Rosenwald schools.



	R:	Rosenwald. But there’s another one. Rosenwald, I remember that. But here’s what happened, is I never went to school that the county bought. No, I never did. I always went in a church, in a little green schoolhouse with four rooms. They burned it down. Well, we went a long time and didn’t have a school.

	MW:	Who burned the school down?



	R:	The same people that didn’t want us educated. MW:	Okay.

	R:	Okay? All right? Then, after that school was burned down, we took a long time, we went to school in Ms. Seneca home. We went to school in the Springhill Church, Sweet Home Church, and Brooklyn Churches, but we just didn’t keep one. We couldn’t keep one, they always got burned up. Well, when Professor Jerkins came, he knew about this plan and who was giving Black people things, but I don’t think this came from Rosenwald. But I remember Rosenwald was a Black man’s friend. Okay, well, he wrote in for them to give the children in Perry a school. And they wrote back and told him they couldn’t give the children in Perry a school because he didn’t have a name for it. The name was Perry Credit Schools, and he wouldn’t give us a name for that school. Well, he wrote back, and they did give him an opportunity to get him a name. So, he named two of the old teachers’ names: Lily Jones, Sara Roundtree, and Jessie Bowman. And there was somebody else that was here—Johnny Belle Moore. Well, when they got together, they all talked about this different characters and things like that, where







they concluded that Jerkins was the one causing it to come, and it should be named Jerkins.

	MW:	And that’s the school that you went, the Jerkins school? R:	That’s the one, yes.

	JW:	Yes.



	MW:	Now there’s a little bit of a difference in you all’s age. You were older when your sister was born, 1919 and 1932.

	R:	I told you I’d stand on the block washing dishes, and cooking grits, and frying bacon! [Laughter]

	MW:	Uh-huh. So, what has your relationship been like as sisters, with her being your older sister and—you grew up a little bit differently because she was twelve or thirteen when you were born. What has that been like for you, that relationship? [Laughter]

	JW:	Oh, boy! [Laughter] MW:	You all are laughing. JW:	Huh?

	MW:	You all are laughing, why are you laughing?



	R:	Because when she fight me, Mama whoop her! [Laughter]



	JW:	Well, that’s true now, that is true. It’s two more of us, and when our mother would go to town, of course she was in charge, okay?

	MW:	Okay.



	JW:	And the girls now—it wasn’t me, I didn’t do that—felt like they was going to get a beating anyway. So they would—and they couldn’t call her a dog, they called her







a peanut stew. [Laughter] And she might decide to tell Momma when they got the stew on there, that they call her a fool, and then they’ll get a beating! They figured out, “Well, I’m going get a beating anyway, so I’m gonna go on and say what I need to say!” [Laughter]

	R:	Well, Corinne [inaudible 25:53]. Now, you might’ve been too young to remember all the bed spreads was a White cotton pin. Corinne went out and played one day, and she decided to touch the bed, and then put a friend on there, and she decide to put a lot of prints on there. [Laughter]

	MW:	You remember this, too?



	R:	No, she didn’t remember that. JW:	I don’t remember that one.

	MW:	Okay.



	R:	Penny, poor penny. I said, Momma got me that time! She told me, “You had no business letting that baby do that.” Boy, she, I done forgot whether she put that switch on me or not, but she frosted me some about letting that baby do that.

	And after that, them babies didn’t do too much wrong around here. [Laughter] MW:	Well, you all are so close today that you came over to see what she was doing. R:	We’re grown enough to know better.

	JW:	Now, if I had not known you were coming here, I would’ve called her and asked her, “Who that down in your house?”

	MW:	Because you saw the truck in front?



	JW:	I saw the truck in the front. You see, she is ninety years old and I live right down the street. And I have to know who’s here, if I don’t know who they are.







[Laughter] You know, I feel where I can just walk out the door and see if her car is out there.

	MW:	And I had a different car last time, because I came in my rental car. JW:	Oh, I did ask her! [Laughter] I did ask her.

	R:	Say, “Who is that down to your house?”



	JW:	Yeah, I did ask her. Mmhm! Sure did, but basically our relationship, it gets kind of rocky sometimes when she doesn’t really see what I’m talking about. But it’s basically good, and I follow her to the doctor, and keep up with appointments, and help her remember, and my calendar that I carry in my pocket is filled with everybody’s appointments. And the reason I didn’t come straight here, when she called me, I was making an appointment for another sister, the other one that’s eighty-six. She had an appointment next Thursday, and I had to do that before I left to come here. And I got another sister around there, the corner over there, that’s got some hip troubles, and she’s walking at this time with a walker. So you see, I’m filled with stuff to do. And everybody’s appointment is in my book. And she didn’t make an appointment with the nerve doctor until she saw what was in my book. I knew what was in my book, so I made the appointment, and now I’ve got to hurry back from Tallahassee with my 1:15 appointment to be with her with her four o’clock appointment. Now that’s how we do.

	R:	We work together. JW:	I am—







	R:	Sometimes she sassing me, and I don’t think she should be sassing me. [Laughter] But she’s good. I’m sorry I don’t have that write-up on the school, but I’ll send it to you.

	MW:	Oh, that’s quite all right.



	R:	It’s over there in that box, the one that was published about how the school system got started.

	JW:	Well, I just told him I had about three books at my house. R:	What kind of books?

	JW:	I beat my books to death, though.



	R:	Well, this the only one I have left here.



	JW:	I’m saying to him that I have some stuff that I think you can use. MW:	Oh, really? Well thank you, I’d be happy to look at it.

	R:	This book here was fixed in my honor, in1960 at the Jerkins High School. MW:	That’s a 1960 yearbook from Jerkins High School in Perry, Florida.

	R:	That’s right. Well I had all of them, just like she had, but my daughter lived in Boston so she decided to get them up and take them with her. Now what I need, to go back to that house and look in there and find them and bring them back. It might be best to let them have ‘em.

	MW:	Why don’t you just get them scanned?



	JW:	They wouldn’t be of any interest to them unless they were history grabbers. LS:	Yeah, well that’s my picture and everything.

	MW:	This is you?



	R:	That’s me. I was younger then.







	JW:	That you? I thought that was Miss— R:	That’s my picture. [Laughter]

	JW:	Oh, okay.



	R:	Laura Scott Reaves.



	MW:	The reason that I came to—



	R:	That’s the way I looked in 1960. JW:	Oh, okay.

	MW:	I met Christine Baines Holmes, and she told me she was her teacher, so that’s how I ended up coming over here.

	R:	Christine?



	JS:	Christine Holmes? Live over by Brooklyn Church. R:	It’s not too far from—

	MW:	It’s right at the intersection of 98 and 27, and there’s a church across the street? JW:	Yes, that’s Brooklyn Church.

	MW:	I was driving to Tallahassee one day, and I just looked to my right, and I just saw her going into her house and she reminded me of my grandmother. Something made me go around the corner and come back and I talked to the ladies at the beauty parlor down the street and they told me, oh yes she knows a lot about the history, and she likes to talk, because I didn’t just want to show up at someone’s home. And then she let me speak to her, and she told me about you, and that’s how I ended up—

	LS:	Yeah you told me about the people sending you over.



	MW:	It’s actually very interesting, because I was on Calhoun Street over there.







	R:	This was my principal at that time. He’s gone. JW:	This is—

	R:	This is the assistant principal, he’s gone. MW:	Reverend Warner? Pardon—

	R:	Ed Warner.



	MW:	Principal Warner. JW:	This was Calhoun. MW:	Yes.

	JW:	We own this property right here, that over there, that right—matter of fact, that whole block right there, and I own half of the other block, and the other block down there.

	MW:	To the North and to the East?



	JW:	Yeah. The family owns half of that, so we justified that, and the street was named Elmo Scott Street.

	MW:	So this was all land that originally was owned by your grandfather, Reverend Braxton?

	R:	Blair and Hinely. MW:	No?

	R:	Blair and Hinely, only. MW:	Blan—?

	JW:	Blair and Hinely. That’s a—



	R:	That’s the name of the subdivision. JW:	Mmhm.







	MW:	Okay.



	R:	My granddaddy owned some land on Main Street, my daddy’s daddy, and my grandmother down at the dead of this street, owned some more land. My mama’s mother had Braxton. Well you know you would go around remembering all those names. I told him, when he come back, he telling them to me.

	MW:	Well you told me about your momma’s daddy, but I didn’t hear about your daddy’s daddy. What was his name?

	JW:	Harry Scott. MW:	Harry Scott.

	R:	He lived on Main Street— JW:	He lived on Harry Scott.

	R:	He lived about a block—no, on the next block over. MW:	Mmhm. Well, I remember you told me.

	R:	His house is there, old. We need somebody to fix it. But like my sister said, it’s too old.

	MW:	Is it still owned by your family? JW:	Mmhm.

	R:	In other words I went in there trying my best to find them other two certificates you got there.

	MW:	Mmhm.



	R:	But I didn’t find them. I found…I think this just a grade sheet.



	JW:	Do you want me to go? I live just across the highway there. Do you want me to go and get what I’m talking about?







MW: If it’s convenient for you that would be very nice—I don’t want to put you out with anything, I’d be happy to come with you, or you can bring it back, or we can wait ‘til the end, or whatever is convenient for you.

	JW:	Okay. Now, where were we? I need to…



	MW:	We talked about your education at Jerkins, is where we were, and then some information came out Jerkins.

	R:	These is, I found another certificate I had in there. MW:	Uh-huh.

	R:	Juanita, I didn’t know I had this one here. MW:	That looks like a diploma.

	R:	This is a certificate for the Adult Education and Vocational. MW:	Mmhm.

	R:	I remembering doing the work, but who writing up about me, I forgot about it. MW:	1963?

	JW:	The State Department of Education, adult education.



	MW:	It’s marvelous that you have all of these. You should have them mounted and preserved.

	JW:	Well…



	MW:	You’ve done a very good job with them, to keep them.



	JW:	Mine is in my fireproof box. [Laughter] That’s where they are!



	MW:	That’s a good place for them. But you see how this paper has turned yellow- brown over the years. You know, air will get to them and change them unless you preserve them. I have a lot of World War II documents from my mother’s







grandfather in North Carolina, and I’ve begun to preserve those documents for the family, because they just kind of laying around everywhere—in boxes, and out in barns, and stuff. It just takes time to do all this stuff.

	R:	This is a list was sent from the school in St. Augustine to A&M, I think. MW:	Okay, this is your transcript.

	R:	Yeah. From that one school, but the one with A&M on it, that’s the one I wanted.



But I told you that every school I went to was listed on there.



	MW:	Well you took a lot of classes! You were a good student. I don’t see any bad grades on here. [Laughter]

	R:	Well, I didn’t ever make any—the worst grade I made was from the University of Florida, was that C-minus.

	MW:	In Sociology? R:	That’s right. MW:	Mmhm.

	R:	But that other one, I failed. That economics. And I’m still failing economics! [Laughter] I don’t know these people and all these banks and stuff. I might need a course in accounting.

	MW:	We took many of the same courses. You have Methods of Social Studies, Educational Psychology, U.S. History, General Psychology, Composition.

	JW:	I did take every one of them.



	MW:	I took all those classes, too. Now here’s one that I did not take: Penmanship.



	R:	You know I saw some man’s fancy penmanship, and Juanita, yesterday, it was so pretty! That boy know he could write! And I taught him to write, them boys.







You know just when that White school burned down, Mama had me take them in the car with me to go to school. Did you ever teach any of your brothers and sisters?

	MW:	A little bit, my mother started us at home reading together when we were young. JW:	Really?

	MW:	Yes, ma’am.



	R:	But these are the teachers, were all at Jerkins at the time.



	JW:	Isn’t that Robert Scott up there with—your hand is on him, your left hand? MW:	Right here?

	JW:	Robert Scott. Isn’t that Robert Scott? R:	No.

	MW:	You mean Robert Scott who drowned before he got his degree? R:	You remember that already?

	MW:	Yes ma’am, I try to remember what you— R:	I told him that since he came here!

	MW:	I try to remember what you tell me. [Laughter]



	R:	They put the right one on that. But let me see, now— MW:	That’s why I’m here, to learn from you. [Laughter]

	R:	I have something else back here and—



MW: Yeah, I’m very honored to spend this time with you all, and please don’t feel like you’ve got to do everything today. This is a three-year project we’re working on, so I’m coming out to introduce myself to the community, and speak to people,







and I have many other colleagues who would like to come out, and to learn about Taylor County.

	R:	This is the one from Latanamah, back there in [19]44. And this is from the State Department of Corrections, the state of Florida.

	MW:	Okay, this is your actual Associate of Arts degree. R:	Mmhm.

	MW:	Okay.



	R:	And A&M somewhere up there, if I can see it. MW:	There’s a roster we could do.

	JW:	I’ve got two, but they’re not visible. I’ve got some on the wall, but those like that?



They’re in my fireproof thing.



	MW:	Let me see this one.



	JW:	I’ve got a degree like that, and a Master’s also.



	MW:	Where did you get—so, you haven’t talked about your education. Where did you get your Master’s?

	JW:	Florida A&M.



	MW:	Okay, and your undergraduate degree? JW:	Florida A&M.

	MW:	Okay, so you were Rattlers, all the way! [Laughter]



	JW:	Right away, but not like you. Because you from the University of Florida.



MW: Yes, ma’am. Well my little brother went to A&M. He started out there, and then he was so far away from home, he ended up coming back to West Palm Beach when my mom and dad were there.







	R:	He should’ve taken some of them stints off. And they said I needed that. I didn’t never think I did. But I have, and this is A&M.

	MW:	My mother’s family is from North Carolina, so she met my dad when he was in 82nd up at Fort Bragg. So I was born at the army hospital at Fort Bragg. My dad’s family, when we moved to Florida, is from West Palm Beach. My youngest brother, he graduated from Palm Beach Atlantic.

	JW:	Okay, well my daughter is in Miami.



	MW:	Okay, that’s about 60 miles south. Of West Palm. JW:	16 miles?

	M:	60.



	JW:	60. Okay, that’s south? MW:	Yes, ma’am.

	JW:	It must be, then, because sometimes she goes over there to West Palm Beach to do cases.

	MW:	Oh yes, just an hour. Or you know, the way people drive down there, it’s only about forty minutes, but I don’t like to drive fast like that. Now, this is your actual Bachelor of Science, your Bachelor’s degree from Florida A&M. I got this since I saw you last for my birthday. This has really been very helpful.

	JW:	Mmhm.



	MW:	That iPhone helps you do a lot of stuff. 1950— “Hereby confers upon Laura Scott Reeves the degree of Bachelor of Science with all the rights and privileges there unto appertaining.” They put that on all of them, I never know what that means. “…with all the rights and privileges there unto appertaining.”







	JW:	Yep.



	MW:	That’s a big statement! [Laughter]



	JW:	The rights and privileges to do what you need to do, according to that. MW:	Now what did you study at FAMU for your undergraduate?

	JW:	Elementary ed.



	MW:	Okay, and for your Master’s? JW:	Reading.

	MW:	Your career was in teaching, or is in teaching?



	JW:	Yes, it is, or it was. Well it still is. I’m doing that like Jesus does it when he says, “Christ is Lord.” Not was, He is. I’m still in it. [Laughter]

	MW:	And did you teach here in Taylor County?



	JW:	I did. I taught Taylor County, Lafayette County, and Thomasville, Georgia. MW:	Okay, where was your favorite place to teach?

	JW:	Where?



	MW:	Mmhm.



	JW:	Kindergarten at Perry Primary.



	R:	Didn’t one of them schools you had to do the music? Or was that in Thomasville? JW:	That was in Thomasville.

	MW:	And how long have you been teaching?



	JW:	I taught, I’m not teaching now. I taught for thirty-six years. Retired in [19]92. R:	I’m going ask you this: how long did I work?

	MW:	Forty-two years?







	R:	[Laughter] Well, you know what? If I could remember like that, wouldn’t it be gracious?

	MW:	Well, these are all things you told me when I saw you last. In fact, two days ago I wanted to make sure I could recall some details of our conversation, so I went back and I read the transcript.

	R:	Well that thing I hand you, that’s one of my resumes, you may have it if you want. MW:	Thank you. I already took a picture of it, so you keep it here.

	R:	You got a picture? MW:	Yes, ma’am.

	LS:	Okay.



	MW:	Children. Were you married, do you have children?



	JW:	I’m going to say it like this: I was married. I divorced, and for many reasons. MW:	I’m very sorry.

	JW:	I got Scott back. You notice it says my name is Juanita Scott. Originally, it was Juanita Williams. His name was Claude, and my daughter’s name is Vernita Claudette Williams.

	MW:	This is here picture up here. Vernita C. Williams, Esq. She was on a tournament. R:	I remember that.

	JW:	Yep.



	R:	We talked a long time.



	MW:	Yeah, you were telling her how special you are. R:	I wish I had that, I’ll send that thing to you.

	JW:	She’s—







	R:	The education got started in the second—I told you, you probably remember! JW:	I’ve got it at the house.

	R:	That same piece of paper? JW:	No, not that one, but it’s— R:	So something else.

	JW:	Yeah.



	R:	Well, then you have two things.



	MW:	Well, I’d like to see that and we can put that in the kitty, too. [Laughter]



	R:	See, it started back in this hall over here. My son [inaudible 44:20] was named after the lady that was a slave, and she was given to a family. What was that man name? [inaudible 44:31] Bill Towles.

	MW:	T-O-L-E?



	R:	She was given to Bill Towles’s auntie. MW:	T-O-L-E-S, Toles.

	R:	Yeah.



	MW:	Bill Toles, okay. R:	And when—

	JW:	I believe it’s T-O-W-L-E-S. MW:	T-O-W-L-E-S.

	R:	That’s the way it is? JW:	The way I saw it.

	R:	Okay. Well, she was given to him, to his auntie, and they kept her, and they loved her. And then another thing: she was bright like they were.







	MW:	Oh.



R:  And she didn’t have to go to the field to work and stuff like that. Well, out on the Puckett Road, they still call it Puckett Road, they had a school house out there. And that’s where Puckett lived in his big old high house.

	MW:	Who’s Puckett?



	R:	Of course, when they were teaching their children, they let her go to the school house, and then take care of them for them, and fix whatever food—whatever was needed.

	MW:	And she learned right along with them?



	R:	Right along with them. She learned right along with them. MW:	What was her name?

	R:	Cordelia Colson. MW:	Cordelia Colson.

	R:	Cordelia Colson. This woman I told you was midwife, was one of her daughters. MW:	Okay.

	R:	And it was one of her daughters that was the first teacher. When they said that— when England open its mouth [45:59] and said that they had to give them children school, and send ‘em to church, well, they all got concerned then. Well, “Where we gon’ find somebody? These niggers can’t teach, they don’t know how to do anything.” You know what Cordelia said? “I’ll give you a teacher. She had taught her daughter Alberta to read and to write, do mathematics. Whatever they taught those children out there, she learned it. And they did hire Alberta, and Alberta was the first teacher in Taylor County.







	MW:	Was she one of your teachers?



	R:	No, she could’ve been one of my daddy teachers, not me. I’m old, but I’m not that



	old! [Laughter] MW:	Okay.

	R:	Yeah, she could’ve been one of—and I think the Roundtrees came next. And then they had a man named after this man who lived in the house by…the Isaac Montgomery. What was that boy name there? Anyway, his granddaddy was one of the teachers there at that time.

	JW:	I’m not that old, I don’t remember! [Laughter]



	R:	No, you don’t remember. But you do know the Nelsons. Old man Nelson was one of the teachers. He came in here from Monticello.

	MW:	When you were married—?



	R:	And he was this man’s granddaddy.



	MW:	Oh. When you were married did you live here in Perry? JW:	I lived here, mmhm.

	MW:	Okay. How long were you married for? JW:	About eighteen years.

	MW:	Okay, and just the one child? JW:	One daughter.

MW: Okay, now how did she—can you tell me about her education a little bit? I see she’s an attorney now. So where did she do her first schooling, where did she first go to school?







	JW:	She went to school first at Jerkins, and after the schools integrated, she started school at the Rock Building, we call it. She was in fourth grade. And at that time, her teacher was Ms. Smith, White teacher. And of course she got into a spelling bee, and her dad called the words for her. And from that day to this one, she believes in prayer. She prayed that she would win that spelling bee, and the superintendent called the words and I was at school working but her daddy went to the spelling bee. Of course, she won. [Laughter] And the children said that the superintendent cheated for her.

	MW:	Cheated for her?



	JW:	Cheated for her. Don’t you know that superintendent didn’t cheat? R:	No, not if he was Mr. Hart.

	JW:	He didn’t—



	LS:	Wasn’t it Mr. Hart? JW:	Yep.

	R:	Mr. Hart wouldn’t cheat nothing. JW:	He didn’t cheat.

	R:	He didn’t like us.



	JW:	We have had some ups and downs with her in the school system because from there, opinions were set.

	R:	She kept her eyes on her.



	JW:	And I taught her from the outset, whatever they can do, you can do it better. She just took that attitude and just went. Whatever they do, you can do it better, just







believe that. I really didn’t want her to go, but her daddy said well, she going, so he went over there and register for her.

	R:	He been up there in Michigan, where everything was integrated.



	JW:	So she had a rocky road, and some of the Black children said that she thought she was White, and some of the people said, I thought she was better than them, but I just told her to do what you got to do, do your best, I’m not taking badness for her, because I found your ability and you got to do it.

	MW:	You were just proud and moving your daughter forward, telling her “You got to do what you got to do.”

	JW:	You got to do what you got to do. And she had awful experiences. One, the senior year, it was awful.

	MW:	Senior year of high school? JW:	Yeah, it was awful!

	MW:	Okay, now was she at Jerkins? JW:	She was at the White high school.

	MW:	Yeah, you called it the Rock school, so—



	JW:	No, no this was elementary school. The Taylor County High— MW:	Taylor Country High, okay.

	JW:	Is where she was when she got into all of these things. You want to hear about them?

	MW:	Please, mmhm.







	JW:	Well, to begin with, she was the only Black in the top ten graduating class. They fooled around and put nine children in the newspaper, and called them the top ten.

	MW:	They didn’t put her picture in the newspaper? JW:	They didn’t put it in there to start with.

	MW:	Now what year was this, her senior year? JW:	[19]76.

	MW:	[19]76, okay.



	JW:	They didn’t put it in there. She came home with the paper, her watery eyes, because I told her, if you think you got a problem, bring it home. She brought the problem home. Went out there the next day, and asked the teacher that did it, could she count? You called it “top ten.” Now, what do we do?

	R:	You got nine, there.



	JW:	I say you owe an apology to my daughter. Okay? You owe her an apology.



	MW:	Now, was she number ten, or she was in the top ten but she was higher than number ten?

	JW:	She was in the top ten.



	MW:	Okay, so she wasn’t necessarily number ten? JW:	No, I don’t know—

	MW:	She was just in the top ten?



	JW:	—what number she was, but she was in the top ten. I don’t know which number, I don’t know whether she was number four or number—

	R:	Well if you going to be top ten, then your top ten go in the paper, instead of nine.







	MW:	Well she couldn’t have been number ten, or they probably would’ve recognized the top nine. [Laughter] So, she was in the top ten, and she was left out.

	JW:	They had to take another picture and put it in the paper— MW:	Well that’s good.

	JS:	—and undo that mistake. I told them it could be a racial—“No, no, no, no, no!” R:	They want to say that—

	MW:	It was just a mistake. JW:	It was just a mistake.

	MW:	Well now that was the bicentennial. That was the two-hundred year anniversary of the country so that was a big deal.

	JW:	It was—yeah. And then, they block-voted and did the Daughters of American Revolution. They did not take her up there to the meeting. I took her to the Daughters of American Revolution meeting. Tallahassee.

	MW:	Was that something that was automatically conveyed upon students with a certain grade?

	JW:	No, no. It was something that the students voted for. MW:	Okay.

	JW:	This decided that they were going to do one of us, and they chose her. And Then when they block-voted, she won. It took them about a week to answer and put it on the loudspeaker who won. They didn’t want her to be the winner!

	MW:	Okay. Who was the principal of the school at this time?



	JW:	I don’t even know! [Laughter] I don’t even know. She knows. R:	Dr. Hart came with them.







	JW:	But I got to the lady’s house. I had her address and name in my purse. She told me there was not going to be a meeting at her house. I said, “Oh yes, there is a meeting. This is the number the school gave me, and this is the street. There’s going to be a meeting here.” She told me, “No, no.” I say, I got my purse, “You are Ms. whatever, and this is the right address. There’s a meeting here.” “Oh yeah, yeah, yeah.”

	MW:	So you had gotten there early? JW:	Yeah, got there early to find it. MW:	Build up some reconnaissance.

	JW:	Yeah, got there early to find it. So I didn’t go in the meeting, but I was sitting outside under the tree in my car. I told her, if you feel anything going on wrong in there, you’re twelfth grade, you ought to know you’re being ill-treated. Don’t stay in there. We got back, everything’s wonderful, she said they were nice, but why?

	R:	She sat there under the tree. [Laughter]



	JW:	Yeah I sat there under the tree. I wasn’t going to leave my child! Under the tree. R:	I didn’t say you did wrong.

	JW:	I was waiting under the tree, and I was waiting for that door to open, and say that somebody bothering me, because the lady told me there wasn’t going to be a meeting.

	R:	I remember all those funny things. What about that girl that didn’t get their words straight? [Laughter]

	JW:	Huh?



	R:	About her words, she didn’t get it straight. [Laughter]







	JW:	Which one?



	R:	Hmm? No it’s some kind of word by the globe, and it was round or something like that. You don’t forget that, that was funny.

	MW:	Now see, you did not tell me you were Reverend Reaves. I didn’t know that you were a minister.

	R:	Mmhm.



	JW:	Yeah, I could write you a book about experiences.



	R:	I didn’t realize that all of them down in Mississippi taught me out of Jacksonville, during the WPA program. And I didn’t think about that, and he gave me a certificate anyway. I said, well that might be why I made a [inaudible 57:57] with that art.

	JW:	What?



	R:	Artwork.



	JW:	Oh.



	R:	You know they stopped having the art program here in the mill? My children went on it for a couple of years. For some reason, they just went out. Didn’t bother me, but they always honor the children. They did ribbons. But for some reason they just didn’t do them anymore.

	MW:	What did your daughter—?



	R:	Now, I had a box for these one, they disappeared, I don’t know where they went.



	I want ‘em so bad. JW:	Make some more.

	R:	Yeah, I could give him one.







	JW:	Make some more.



	R:	Well, I could send them back to the house or to the big bookstore over there and get some more.

	JW:	Okay.



	R:	It’s the only one I have. JW:	What did you—?

	MW:	I was about to ask you about your daughter’s education. Where did she go to receive her Bachelor’s degree?

	JW:	She received her Bachelor’s degree in Pharmacy at Florida A&M. Then she received a Doctorate in Pharmacology at Florida A&M.

	R:	Where did she get the Master’s from?



	JW:	You don’t get Master’s in that program, you get the Doctorate. Then, she went to Howard University, professor for however many years. Then she decided that she didn’t want to do that, because she was teaching men probably your age that was older than she was. At this point, she was twenty-four, and at this time also, a professor had gotten shot at FSU because he failed to change a grade on a boy that was trying to get out so he could go to work, and he ask him over and over, you say you’re not going to change the grade? What he did was out from under his shirt, like you wearing now—

	R:	Did the man die?



	JW:	He kill him right there! He told him he wasn’t going to change the grade. MW:	I never heard this story.

	R:	Well listen here, what did I tell my teacher?







	JW:	That was in the paper.



	R:	I told her to give me some more work, didn’t I? MW:	Mmhm.

	R:	[Inaudible 1:00:44] I didn’t have time to get mad. JW:	That was in the paper! Right up there, Tallahassee.

	MW:	Do you remember what year, about, that might have happened?



	JW:	I don’t remember. I don’t even know whether he was Black or White, I don’t remember that.

	MW:	Probably early [19]80s, since your daughter graduated high school in [19]76.



	JW:	Mmhm. But anyway, they told her, you up here trying to flunk somebody and you still got milk around your mouth! [Laughter]

	R:	She didn’t want to stay? I thought it was too cold for her.



	JW:	She didn’t want to stay in that profession. Those fellows, she said they were harder, they were—and she was trying to be sure that they were ready to take the National Pharmacy Exam, and the Washington exams, and things, and she had to grade like you supposed to, and they wanted her to—

MW: Pass them through. JW: Kind of, you know... MW: Yeah.

	R:	Pad them the court.



	JW:	You go out there and play with people health because you don’t know what you’re doing.

	MW:	She had a responsibility to make sure they knew what they were doing.







	JW:	Yeah.



	MW:	Because she’s certifying that they’re certifiable, so it’s her reputation, really.



	JW:	Yes, it was on the line. So she thought, “Well let me come out of here,” and then she moved back to Miami, and went to University of Miami.

	MW:	For law school? JW:	Law school.

	MW:	Okay.



	JW:	Jurisprudence. MW:	Mmhm.

	JW:	Yeah.



	MW:	That’s a marvelous trend. So she’s been practicing law. JW:	Yeah.

MW: For twenty years. JW: Not quite twenty. MW:  Not quite twenty?

JW: She graduated from college in [19]81. She graduated again in [19]83, and she graduated again in about [19]86.

MW:  Okay. Well that’s 24 years since [19]86.



	JW:	Yeah. She’s been practicing a bit. But at one point she was working seven days, and all seven in pharmacy. Then, she used that time—her dad was sick—to fly over me and go to Quincy to see her daddy, and fly back to Miami. She didn’t stop by Perry.

	R:	She loved her daddy so much.







	JW:	She flew and—



	MW:	She flew into Tallahassee and drove out to Quincy.



	JW:	She drove out to Quincy, rented a car, drove to Quincy. Then, that was in these seven days off, and at that time, she’d do about three days with him and go back and work on law. Now she’s full-time law, and keeping her pharmacy certificate alive, and doing pharmacy when she get ready. Yep, so, that is what she doing now.

	MW:	Well, I’ve enjoyed talking to you all, and I hate to take it so long that you get bored with it or everybody gets tired, so maybe this’ll be a good time for a break and you talk about me coming back again sometime, if that is convenient for you all. I’ve very much enjoyed our conversation. I always like to close an interview with asking the people I’m speaking with to offer some kind of reflection. Maybe something you liked about the interview, or something you thought we didn’t talk about, or just whatever your comments might be. And then, after you make those comments, that’ll be the end of the interview.

	JW:	I was wondering as we talked if we were reaching what you needed, and if we were supplying the kind of information you need, or really what were you going to do with it? [Laughter]

	MW:	Did you want me to answer? JW:	Yes.

	MW:	Okay, because normally I would just end at this point. JW:	What were you going to do with it, is the question.







	MW:	No, I think that these answers have been very good, they’ve provided some very unique insight. I’ve never interviewed two sisters at once to talk about issues in African-American history in Florida, so this is a first for me to do it this way. The purpose of the African-American History Project is to gather three hundred stories from African-Americans on what it’s like to be Black in the south and in Florida. This particular part in Taylor County has some very unique resonance for me because I don’t know many other people who have studied Taylor County, so my goals are just to gather information, to find out as much as possible, perhaps publish a paper one day about what we’ve talked about, or perhaps one day to write a book about what we’ve talked about. But primarily to collect information for the oral history archives at the University of Florida. That’s the primary mission that I’m working on right now.

	R:	You know it’d have been nice had I let you see what all written up about



[inaudible 1:06:18] from the University of Florida.



	MW:	Oh really?



	R:	Yeah, well anyway, I’ll tell you what it’s like. They’re concerned about building up the waterways, putting down ramps, and different things, and highways in Taylor County, and they wanted to know how I felt about it. Well, have I ever been out there doing anything? Well the only thing I’ve ever been out there when my husband was living, I went out there and fished sometimes, and we’d walk bare- feeted in the water and pick up some of them little old shrimps or crabs or something that they liked to eat, and go wading. That’s about all I’ve ever done, is fish.







	JW:	Yeah, because, see, it would take me five minutes to go and get—then I would know whether you can really use it or not or whether—what you would want to do with it. Let me go and get this.

	MW:	Thank you very much for being willing to do that, and like I said this is part of a three year project we’re doing, so I hope that more than even me writing a paper, or writing a book, or getting something into the archives, that because we’ve had these conversations, that it’s interested you enough that you will let some more of my colleagues come and speak with you and find out more about what life is like, and maybe even introduce us to some other people in the community who you feel may be able to help us answer further questions about what’s going on. So, I look at this more of introduction.

	JW:	Let me see if you can perhaps use something that I got. MW:	Okay.

	R:	Yeah, because if you bring something by the school, I wish I could—



	MW:	I would like to take some pictures of this stuff, I just didn’t want to stop with the interview that we were doing.

	R:	What you say now?



	MW:	I want to take some pictures of the yearbook, and some of your certificates, I was just—we were in the interview.

	R:	It’s all right to take some of them certificates just in those books.



	MW:	Okay, and just to close out the interview, this is Marna Weston with the Oral History Program. Today I’ve spoken with Juanita Scott Williams, and with Laura Scott Reaves in Ms. Reaves’ home in Perry Florida, and this is May 14, 2010.







[End of interview]









	Transcribed by:	Toni-Lee Maitland, March 28, 2014 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, July 30, 2014

	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 16, 2019