AAHP 475; Marceus; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 475 Ashley Marceus African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Justin Dunnavant on January 27, 2017 4 minutes | 3 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Ms. Ashley Marceus recounts her first experience with the IBC and mentions how the final goodbye event for the building affected her. Ms.

Marceus discusses the difference between the IBC and the BEC in the Reitz Union along with her hopes for the new house in the future.



Keywords: [University of Florida; Institute of Black Culture; African American History; IBC; Alumni]

























































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 475

Interviewee: Ashley Marceus Interviewer: Justin Dunnavant Date: January 27, 2017



	D:	Today is January 27. This is Justin Dunnavant. I’m here at the Institute of Black Culture for the IBC Farewell Event, and I’m sitting with Miss

	M:	Ashley Marceus.



	D:	Ashley Marceus. Thank you Ms. Marceus for being here. We just wanted to record some reflections with students about what the IBC has meant to them and starting moving forward, what it will mean in the future. And I just want to kind of get your experiences, like your first experience at the IBC, what that was like.

	M:	My first experience at the IBC, actually no one really knows this, but I was touring the school, and I saw a building that said Institute of Black Culture, and I was just like, “Oh my god that’s so cool!” But it was closed. [Laughter] But still, I was super excited by the fact that there was actually a building dedicated to Black people on this campus. So that was my first experience, but like, actually going in the house, it was for a lecture talk with my professor, and it was really amazing because I walked in there, and there was so much history on the walls, absolutely history everywhere. And you just felt that sense of a family. So it was a good experience.

	D:	Are there any specific events that you remember or moments that you remember from your time being in the IBC?

	M:	Let’s see, what do I remember the most? I would say, the most recent event, maybe the final goodbye in the building that was really memorable. It was really emotional too because just to think about how this is gonna come down after all those years. [Laughter] That was me laughing. [Laughter]





	D:	Being in that space and then coming here to this space, what’s some of the differences that you’ve noticed? Or how do you feel about being in this space?

	M:	There’s a lot of differences. It doesn’t feel like a home here. The IBC was a home, it was its own little separate entity. This feels like one of many different spaces to promote inclusion so it’s not really ̶ it’s nice it has all of the other marginalized groups here, but it’s not really a home. It just feels like another space just for Black people to congregate.

	D:	What do you hope that the new house will be when it’s rebuilt and reopen?



	M:	I really just hope it’s everything we want it to be. I hope that they take into account what all the Black students want because we’re asking for so little considering what we’ve been through. I just want it to be a home again, so not just another building that’s just there updated. But something with history as well. So not just a new building but something that holds history and that’s still a home for the Black community.

	D:	And then, finally, when you hear the name IBC what are some words that come to mind?

	M:	First things first, always Black Affairs. I always think of Ebony actually, because she’s so involved. Actually, so I do think of you, Ebony. I’m always just like “Ebony” because, you know, you’ll see her there probably, if you go. I also think of maybe Greek organizations because that was a meeting ground for them as well.

	D:	Lastly, we got your name. Classification and major?





	M:	I’m a second year, I’m double majoring in Political Science and African American studies with a minor in Women’s Studies.

	D:	Thank you, and this is Justin Dunnavant, signing out, thank you. [End of interview]







	Transcribed by:	Jessica Lowell



	Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, October 17, 2018 Final edit by:	Sandra Romero, October 21, 2020