Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 188 Mary Alice Jenkins African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Maria Muñoz on September 2, 2011 3 minutes | 2 pages



Abstract: This interview was conducted at an event celebrating the legacy of Robert Jenkins Ellerson High School in Starke, Florida. Ms. Jenkins relates that she is actually a graduate of A.L. Mebane High School in Alachua, Florida, and she describes other events commemorating Black schools in the area.





Keywords: [African American History; Bradford County, Florida; RJE High School; Alachua County, Florida; A.L. Mebane High School]



























































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 188

Interviewee: Mary Alice Jenkins Interviewer: Maria Munoz

Date: September 2, 2011



	M:	So first what is your name?



	J:	My name is Mary Alice Wade Jenkins. M:	And are you a graduate of RJE?

	J:	No, I’m not.



	M:	Okay and what does today’s event mean to you? What high school did you go to actually?

	J:	I graduated from Mebane, class of 1969.



	M:	Awesome and what does today’s event mean to you?



	J:	It means a lot because it’s a big coming together and we started at Lincoln City at Thurston Elementary. So we’re having a parade tomorrow morning and we’re honoring our city, Thurston Elementary class, Lincoln City. And we have a floating parade for that term. And then October the 8th we have a big block party like you said.

	M:	And what’s your best or most outstanding memory of attending Mebane High School? What stands out to you?

	J:	The many friends I got. You know when I first went there it was kinda sad cause I left all my relatives over here. And when I got over there and met the class of 1969, we went all through high school together and that was a lot. We were the best of friends. And then the best one is when we graduated from high school, we consider our class the best class. Cause we were the ones that brought the building down, we were the last one that marched down the aisle at that school. So that was the best one.



AAHP 188; Jenkins; Page 2





	M:	And you still live here?



	J:	I live in Alachua, and we have this every year too in Alachua too. And we had one Thanksgiving weekend, and I pride myself to know that I’ve been in the biggest homecoming parade in 2008-2009, because I was the alumni queen for two years and then my grandbaby was the queen for two years. And we take pride, so we give out free scholarships at our school. I don’t know what they do here. But we give out about ten scholarships a year. We enjoy doing stuff like that because we have a big parade, we celebrate ours the whole Thanksgiving weekend.

	M:	Is there anything else you want to add to our interview right now?



	J:	Well we wish you all would come to Lincoln City October the 8th and that’s history there. That’s gonna be a lot of history in the making right there. This is our first time we’re gonna plait the Maypole, and there’s a lot of stuff we’re gonna do. We need you all there to get some of those pioneers of the city.

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Justin Dunnavant, May 6, 2013 Audio edited by:	Anna Jimenez, June 18, 2013 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 20, 2019