AAHP 718; Brickler and Brickler; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 718 Brickler & Brickler 8-4-2019

Interviewed by Julian Valdivia, Samantha Chrisanti, and Elizabeth Rios-Brooks on August 4, 2020

73 minutes | 19 pages



Abstract: In this interview, longtime partners Alex and Dorothy Brickler recount their lives—both together and prior to meeting—to three student interviewers. Dorothy recalls that she was born in Pennsylvania before moving to Charlotte, North Carolina as her father, a biologist, struggled to find work due to racial discrimination. Later, she and her father moved to Tallahassee where he started working as a professor of biology at Florida A&M University. In Tallahassee, where she lives to present day, Dorothy married a man from New Jersey, Alex Brickler. Alex and Dorothy’s father worked in a medical practice in Tallahassee together. Alex was born in Indianapolis, Indiana, with a high school teacher as a father. He and his father moved to Ohio, where his father worked as a mechanical engineer. From watching his father work, Alex developed an interest in engineering which lent itself to his later career in the Air Force. The couple met at Howard University while taking a biology course and have been sharing a home in Tallahassee ever since.





Keywords: [Tallahassee, Florida, Black community, family history, engineering, military, HBCU, Florida A&M, Howard University, academia]



AAHP 718

Interviewee: Alex D. Brickler and Dorothy Brickler

Interviewer: Julian Valdivia, Samantha Chrisanti, Elizabeth Rios-Brooks Date: August 4th, 2019

	V:	And there we go. So I guess we should all say our names, this is Julian Valdivia with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program, we’re in Tallahassee, Florida, the “we” being—

	C:	Samantha Chrisanti.



	RB:	And Elizabeth Rios-Brooks. V:	And we are interviewing— AB:	Alex D. Brickler.

	V:	Okay.



	DB:	Dorothy Brickler.



	V:	All right and can you both actually spell out your names so that the transcriber— AB:	First name Alex, A-L-E-X, middle initial D, last name Brickler, B-R-I-C-K-L-E-R. V:	Okay.

	DB:	Dorothy D-O-R-O-T-H-Y Brickler B-R-I-C-K-L-E-R.



	V:	All right, perfect. And I guess we should start off the interview by asking where you were both born?

	AB:	Shall I start? DB:	Oh, okay.

	AB:	I’m sorry, I don’t want to start—



	DB:	I was born in Pittsburg, Pennsylvania and my father was a professor in biology, we moved to Johnson C. Smith University in Charlotte, North Carolina so that he could have a job because at that time they weren’t hiring Black people in Pittsburg for a teaching job. And we lived in Charlotte for thirteen and a half years, then my father decided to go to medical school and we moved to Pittsburg





to live with my aunt and uncle while he went to medical school. Then when he graduated, he came here to Tallahassee to teach at Florida A&M University and he taught biology and he started his practice at the same time. And he practiced for—oh—thirteen years. And we have been in Tallahassee ever since. I got married, and my husband was from New Jersey and he decided that—well, Daddy wanted him to come here and practice with him. So that’s how we got to Tallahassee.

	AB:	Yep, her father got out his shotgun and said, “Come with my daughter and come down here and practice,” which I did. Her father, Dr. Anderson, was quite a character in and of himself. He had a Ph.D. in genetics from the University of Pittsburg.

	V:	Wow.



	AB:	And he worked his way all the way through school in the steel mills in Pittsburg.



Working the steel mills, and went to school in the daytime. So he was quite a character and has been a lifelong person of impression to me. Can’t say enough about him, you really should have been here so you could have—

	DB:	Yeah, he was quite a character.



	SC:	Well, I’m glad that we have you to interview and to have you talk about him as well.

	M:	As far as I, I was born in Indianapolis, Indiana and my dad taught in a high school there. He finished at the University of Colorado in engineering and I came right along with the Depression so there weren’t any jobs and there certainly weren’t any jobs for Black engineers so he was teaching at high school but he had a job





and that was good because he had to feed me and I was happy to receive that help. We stayed in Indianapolis for about five years, and then he moved to Central State—what’s called Central State University now—which was Wilberforce at the time—and that’s in Central Ohio. And he took over the engineering department there. That was an education in and of itself because I followed him around with the lays and the auto shops that he got control over, I got a whole lot of really practical experience in the grease and dirt of engines and things like that. And then, when the war came along, they were really desperate for engineers they didn’t care what color they were “just come.” So he was asked to go to Long Branch, New Jersey, Fort Monmouth, the Signal Corps, was centered there and he was in charge of environmental testing of their equipment. And that’s how I got to New Jersey. And I went to high school there, worked in immediately after I finished high school with grades well enough to get into college and from college I went to med school and from med school I went into the Air Force and stayed there for a while. While we had the Korean police action, I did not get into a mass unit, I spent my whole time in clinical delivering babies. [Laughter] Which I’m not the least bit regretful about, because I didn’t want to shoot anybody and I didn’t want anybody to be shooting at me. And babies don’t shoot. So we had a good time. Of course, my wife was there with me and that’s where we had our first child—our second child—

	DB:	Our second.



	AB:	My son. Our first child was born here in Tallahassee. DB:	Right.





	AB:	So that brings you up to date. V:	Okay.

	U:	When did you all connect? When did you all meet?



	DB:	We met at Howard University, we were both taking biology courses. [Laughter] And we were in a lab for—I guess it was—anyway it was a zoology course, and we were right across from each other. It was a long table and it had two sides and we were across from each other so we got to talking. And then all this developed.

	U:	The chemistry developed.



	SC:	So what led both of you to attend school at Howard?



	AB:	Well that was the school that was foolish enough to accept me. [Laughter] And at the time I finished high school in [19]46, which was just at the end of the Second World War, all the vets were coming back. So it was really very hard to get into an undergrad school then because they were accepting vets and they were giving them preference. So I was glad to squeeze into Howard. Howard was top notch school at that point. So I haven’t regretted that. And I was taking comparative anatomy—actually I was a physics math major and that’s what I wanted to do but I couched a little bit and took some biology and fortunately took this course—comparative anatomy—and alphabetically we were seated so that— her name was Anderson and mine was Brickler so we got together. And she was having some trouble with physics, and that was my major and I said, “Well, I’ll help you with your physics.”

	SC:	Smooth. [Laughter]







V:

That’s a good line.

AB:

Yeah. So physics problems and so forth ended up with her—

DB:

Working together, learning physics from my tutor.

RB:

What was your intended major when you met?

DB:

Zoology.

AB:

She was gonna follow her father and she was going to med school.

DB:

Yeah, I had planned to go to med school.

AB:

And she—I think she had better zoology grades than I did. She could spell much



better, but she couldn’t write, and she couldn’t draw worth a darn.

DB:

Yes, he did laugh at my drawing.

V:

Did you both have intentions of going to graduate school?

AB:

Yeah, oh yeah. In fact, she did.

DB:

I did. I went and got my master’s—

AB:

She got her master’s and her PhD.

V:

Wow.

AB:

At Florida State in parasitology. I got my master’s in parasitology.

SC:

What is—

RB:

Is that the study of parasites?

AB:

Studying parasites, mmhm. Very interesting. [Laughter]

V:

When we think about the bacteria in the water now and all that stuff that’s going



on.

AB:

That’s how she got her nickname. I always call her Dotty Bug.

SC:

Aww.





	V:	I was actually curious, because you said your father had originally moved to Tallahassee and that he encouraged you to come down and work with him, was it intimidating to come to Tallahassee after coming from the Midwest? Because I know Florida had a reputation—

	AB:	I was coming from New Jersey and the town was on the north Jersey coast just across from Raritan Bay from New York City so the environment there was New York City, New Jersey and to get in the car and drive to Tallahassee was like coming to—

	DB:	A whole new world. [Laughter] AB:	It was terrible. It was just awful.

	RB:	What was your transition like when you moved to Tallahassee?



	AB:	It wasn’t as bad as I try to paint. Because we were so busy. Our practice really took off and we were working night and day so that I didn’t really come into contact with the outside world. But now, my wife did. Got all the things that—you know the separate waiting rooms and the separate fountains and so forth and so on. Separate schools. She had to negotiate, and I just sat in my office and saw patients and let her do all the work, and she did it and got our family through all that. So she, more than anything else deserves all the credit for whatever success we had.

	SC:	Could you speak on that, from your perspective?



	DB:	Well I can say that it was a little difficult in some respects. If I wanted to go shopping, I knew that if I went to certain stores—now there were some stores that were run by Jewish people that were very nice and you could try on clothes





in the dressing room and there was no problem. And then there were many of them where if you wanted to try on something—I only did it once—and they sent me to the area that was the broom closet and I just left the clothes there and left the store because I refused to take that kind of service. And I did all my shopping at the little Jewish stores where they were much nicer to the people that shopped, to us people.

	U:	Do you remember the name of one or two of those stores in Tallahassee? I’m just thinking—

	DB:	Well, I remember Starman, it was very prejudice. And it was the French shop that I used to go to all the time. I don’t know if you remember the French shop, and I can’t remember the lady’s name, but she was so nice. She would bring my clothes out here for me to try on. But that was one and only, the others were—if you wanted to try something on, well I really just wouldn’t try them on. I either changed stores—I really did most of my dress shopping at French shop because that was the only place that—even my daughter had to go there because I mean they did have smaller sizes—but when she was in her teens, I took her there because the other stores were so prejudiced and they sent you to come little closet or something to try things on. It was very humiliating. But for the most part there were little areas around the university where I could pick up things like drugstores and things like that that were run by Black people.

	AB:	The historically Black colleges in the towns were an oasis. Acted as oases in travel and so forth. You may have seen that movie called “The Green Book,” well that was very true.





	DB:	Yeah it was.



	AB:	When you hit Washington and crossed to Potomac and got into Virginia it was no mans land from there on. And you had to look and make plans as to where you want to stop and so on. We were in Augusta one trip on the way down and we were traveling in a kind of automobile following automobile with my brother-in-law and his wife. And we stopped at a gas station and his wife was very fair and the gas station attendant obviously didn’t know what she was, so when she asked for a restroom, he sent her to the White restroom. When she came out and they found out that she wasn’t White he called the sheriff. The sheriff came down and stopped us all, was about to put us in jail and then he decided not to and decided, “Okay, you get out of town.”

	DB:	“Get out of town!”



	AB:	--and never come back.” [Laughter] So I’ve never been back to Augusta. So there were little things like that—that weren’t little things, they were dangerous. My dad was a consultant for the Tuskegee Airman thing because of his engineering they asked him to come down and set up their engine maintenance program. So we were driving down from Ohio and we got into Alabama and we were passing a truck and the guy saw us in the mirror and he crowded us off the road. And we went into the ditch and almost turned over, and he stopped, looked, and laughed at us and kept on going. It was that sort of thing that was dangerous. Once in Albany I was taking my wife and Celeste—she was just a baby—up to Nashville. And we were in a rainstorm and I was driving and old





Chevy and I was in med school then. Windshield wiper wasn’t working so I was just creeping along—

	DB:	Oh, yeah.



	AB:	Lights flash behind me, policeman stop me and say why was I speeding— DB:	He couldn’t speed!

	AB:	I couldn’t speed because I didn’t have windshield wipers. And he and his buddy were drinking out of this paper bag and say, “How much money have you got?” And I said I had fifteen dollars, they said, “Alright, give it to me and get out of town and don’t ever come back.” So, I haven’t been back to Albany either. It was dangerous.

	DB:	It was.



	AB:	Bad things could happen to you. Yeah.



	V:	I actually wanted to—I know you said you went to FSU, where did you go to school? Did you do your graduate schooling?

	AB:	At Meharry, in Nashville.



	V:	Sorry, I lost my train of thought with that. SC:	Okay, I have a question.

	V:	Yeah you can go.



	SC:	So you talked about your kids a little bit but we didn’t ask you: how many kids you have and what are their names? We’d love to know about them.

	DB:	We have four children. Celeste, our daughter, is the oldest. Then we have three sons, Alexander is our oldest son. Alexander Dumont III. We now have





Alexander Dumont IV. And David and Michael. Michael’s my baby. He’s forty- some years old. [Laughter]

	U:	It’s okay, my mom says that I’ll be her baby forever so— AB:	Old, grey-haired baby. [Laughter]

	SC:	Exactly.



	RB:	And what are the children doing?



	DB:	Celeste is an endocrinologist and she has her office on Adams Street. It used to be my father’s and then my husband’s and my son practiced there also, my older son. And now my daughter has taken over and she—It’s the Anderson-Brickler Medical Clinic. And she’ll be practicing for a while. And AJ is an OBGYN physician. David, my middle son, is—

	AB:	IT.



	DB:	IT, but he’s working at TMH in the—Oh, darn what is he? He runs the— AB:	Computers.

	DB:	Computers, yeah, thank you.



	AB:	Keeps it running sometimes. [Laughter]



	DB:	Yeah, that’s right. He’s very busy. And my baby son lives in Virginia and he has his own computer work, he runs a computer—

	SC:	That’s a lot of computer and medical—



	U:	Did I not notice that Celeste also opened an art gallery as a part of the Anderson- Brickler complex down there?

	SC:	What?!



	RB:	Yes, I have yet to visit—





	DB:	Oh, it’s beautiful. It’s really nice. And she moved. She is downstairs and she has the whole downstairs as her art gallery. And then there’s another building that we have and she has an art gallery in there also.

	SC:	Her own art or art that she finds? DB:	No, it’s other people’s art. Yeah. SC:	That’s incredible.

	V:	I remembered my train of thought. I actually wanted to ask what year you were practicing in?

	AB:	I graduated med school in [19]53, and then went into the Air Force for a couple years. And then after that I was in New Jersey for a year after that, and then down here.

	V:	What year did you get to Florida? AB:	[19]57.

	V:	[19]57.



	AB:	Was it [19]57?



	DB:	Yes, I think [19]57.



	V:	So, I was actually curious about whether or not—you know, I’m not familiar with a lot of Tallahassee history—were there segregated hospitals in Tallahassee or was the hospital itself segregated into different Black and White sections?

	AB:	We had the old A&M hospital which was where the old Afro-American community and the TMH for the White community. Actually, the A&M hospital was physically a little better than the TMH at the time it was built because it was funded by the state. And the only way we got the funding was the fact that we were offering a





Bachelor of Science degree in nursing to the students at A&M and they had to have a place to practice their clinical skills, so the state built the hospital and funded it of course. So, we were very fortunate, everything was a lot different for us than with other southern cities the size of Tallahassee, because most of them had just one hospital and the one hospital was segregated. In… let’s see, around [19]61, [19]62, they withdrew the funding to A&M hospital, and it had to be closed and then we were faced with integrating TMH. And that’s a whole other story, getting it integrated and the whole process of integrating a hospital involved a lot of negotiations and fortunately there were thinking people on both sides of the issue. So that the administrator over there who was Eugene Weston and I and Dr. Anderson got together, and we were able to get the hospital integrated, TMH integrated, and we were able to bring our staff, the staff from A&M, over there intact. And the nurses and people from A&M got the same positions at TMH that they did have at A&M so that came off very nicely. There were little rough spots where people who weren’t willing to accept the services of Black professionals would get upset at me. One of the main persons was one of the high-ranking politician whose father came in with a stroke. I saw him that night, stabilized him and got him up and things going. The next morning he came in, found out I was taking care of him, and he threw a fit. [Laughter]

	SC:	Well, you only saved his life, it’s fine. [Laughter]



	AB:	Yeah, “Well never mind I don’t want to see you anyway.” But I wish you’d gotten that fit out of the way at three o’ clock in the morning or something.

	DB:	He wasn’t awake enough. [Laughter]





	AB:	But we had little things like that happen. And security guards didn’t know who I was one night and they tried to stop me and the cardiologist bailed me out. Said, “No, he’s a doctor. Don’t do it, don’t do it!”

	V:	What happened to the A&M facility then?



AB:  It’s still there, it’s that big brick building that’s up on the hill. It’s an administrative building now, I think the president has an office there now or somewhere in that area.

U:   Dr. Brickler were you and or Dr. Anderson school physicians at Florida A&M?



	AB:	Yeah, we were school physicians for a long time. He was the school physician and I was just his assistant, which gave us lots of interesting history because we took care of football teams and of course everybody knows about Coach Gaither, he was our patient. Robert somebody, I forgot his name, he won the hundred meters—

RB:  Bob Hayes?



	AB:	Bob Hayes, yeah. Gallimo was our patient, a lot of people that went on to play professional football. And, of course, all the students.

	U:	Did you not serve the faculty? Did the faculty come, or it was mainly the students?

	AB:	The students health service was mainly our business; the faculty came over to our office over on Adams Street which was across the street.

	V:	I don’t mean to harp on the facility, but they never integrated A&M as like a hospital? Or did they turn it into an administrative building?





	AB:	You know when we were getting, and when A&M was shutting down and we knew we were going to have to integrate TMH we integrated A&M first. And the strategy that we used was we started an indigent OB clinic at A&M and all the women that came to the clinic were seen. If they didn’t have money, they were seen. If they did have money, they were billed only at a rate that was acceptable to them. And it was such a good thing that we were inundated not only with Black patients, but White patients came to A&M. So, A&M was integrated before TMH, really. And that kind of softened things too, because people that we were taking care of through indigent clinics were poor White people and they weren’t about to give us a hard time. So that helped us get through that rough period.

	SC:	What were—I didn’t mean to interrupt, but what were sentiments in the medical community, at least in A&M, about having to integrate? What were people’s feelings about that or maybe your feelings about that?

	AB:	Integrating A&M? SC:	Integrating into TMH.

	AB:	Because of the way we did the integration of A&M there wasn’t a lot of resistance on the medical staff, because the specialists on the staff at TMH came over to A&M to consult with us. So we knew them very well and we worked with them for years. So that we were pretty good friends, but they didn’t invite us to dinner or anything. But they understood that, professionally, we were competent. So there was very little resistance on the medical staff, from that standpoint.

	V:	I was curious, actually, Dorothy, while all this was going on with your husband what were you doing at this time?





	DB:	Well, I worked at his office for a while. And then I started taking courses at Florida State in parasitology and comparative anatomy. And in the meantime, in between time, I was making sure that my children got to school on time and did their homework at night and things that housewives do. Laundry and all those kinds of little things in between. Cooking the meals.

	RB:	What was it like attending Florida State at that time?



	DB:	It was no problem in the sciences. I don’t know about the other schools, but everybody was very nice. Nobody made any rude remarks or anything. We worked together. I think, in science, people are a lot different than they are in other—Scientists seem to work much better together. It doesn’t seem to matter what color or anything, we got along just fine in the labs.

	AB:	Your dad was the first Black person on faculty at FSU. DB:	Yeah, that’s right.

	AB:	Dr. Smith, in sociology. He and Doug San Angelo, they had clandestine meetings in the house and parked the car down the street so the sheriff wouldn’t know we were there and things like that.

	V:	Were there other women of color working in labs with you?



	DB:	No. No, I was the only spot in the biology class. And in the entomology courses I took, I was the only one. In fact, I think I was the only one in all of the courses that I took. But I never had any problem, everybody— scientists are just more— they kind of greet you a whole lot better than the other groups. At least, that’s the feeling I had. I never had any problem with any of the students.

	U:	So, historically, as a Florida State graduate, right--?







DB:

Yes.

U:

And we hear about who was the first African American to graduate from—

DB:

Oh, no I didn’t graduate from Florida State. I just got my master’s.

U:

But, I mean, you got your master’s.

DB:

Yeah, right. Mmhmm.

U:

Okay.

RB:

What year was that?

DB:

That was—Good Lord! I don’t remember. [Laughter] I don’t remember, do you



remember what year that was that I got my master’s?

AB:

No, I don’t remember the specific year.

U:

Was this you guys first residence when you came to town? Out here?

DB:

No, no, no. We lived on Famcy Street.

AB:

This was the office there for a while.

DB:

Oh, yeah. We lived downstairs in the office.

SC:

That’s easy, you just walk right up.

DB:

Yep. And then from there we moved to Famcy Street, and from Famcy Street—



Oh no, then we moved back to downstairs in the office.

AB:

Did we? Okay.

DB:

I think we moved back for a year. And then we started buying this up and built it.



Yeah, we had it built.

U:

Which was way in the middle of nowhere.

DB:

Yeah, that’s right. We were out in the country. My father found the place for us.

AB:

The street out there wasn’t even paved!





	RB:	Wow, and when did you buy this house? AB:	What year?

	DB:	Oh God.



	AB:	We built it in—



	DB:	Must have been [19]49 or [19]50. AB:	Mikey was just a baby.

	DB:	Yeah, I remember when he was crawling along the counter. AB:	That must have been fifty years ago.

	SC:	Wow. Beautiful.



	DB:	It was in [19]50 or [19]51 that we had it completed.



	SC:	I had a question. So, I came a few weeks back for the reunion for the Tallahassee Bus Boycotts, and so I was just wondering, during that time, if you two had any involvement with the movement, particularly in Tallahassee?

	AB:	We, like everybody else, volunteered—not “we,” my wife probably more than anybody else because she did all the driving back and forth, that sort of thing— but we took care of the students with the demonstrations and so forth. My father and I would go down to the jail to make sure that they were alright because they would be arrested, and we were worried about how they were being treated. So cooler heads on the other side prevailed and said, “Yeah, come on down, we’ll show you that they’re being treated all right. We’re not gonna hurt ‘em.” And we went down to make sure, and we made constant visits there. When King was assassinated, we had a full-blown riot and the students really went berserk, throwing things at cars. One kid had a bow-and-arrow and he was up on the





parking lot of the hospital with his bow-and-arrow shooting at cars as they came down Adams Street if they had White occupants. And it was obvious that somebody was gonna get hurt badly, so we called down to the station and there was an old sergeant that used to bring stab wounds and things into the emergency room, he and I got to be friends. And I called him, and I said, “Stop everybody, don’t let anybody come down Adams Street because these kids are going crazy, we’re trying to get them under control. We don’t wany anybody to get hurt.” Little things like that.

	V:	I actually had a question about that, because you said, “the kids,” were there any faculty that got involved in the demonstration?

	DB:	Yes.



	AB:	Faculty, you know, they weren’t involved actively with the physical part of it, but they encouraged sit-ins and things like that. And that made it very difficult for the president because he had been negotiating contracts and funding and everything. I didn’t envy his job.

	DB:	I remember Margaret Collins got very much involved, she was a biology professor.

	AB:	And your dad was in that. He was a radical too.



	U:	Yeah, and I agree with you on the terms of the president having a very difficult position—

	DB:	Oh, yeah.





	U:	In terms of verbally and how to publicly talk about the students and what they’re doing, the faculty, you wanted to maybe get more engaged but, you know, job security—I feel like I would not have wanted to be president at that—

	AB:	Dr. Gore—



	DB:	Yeah, he really had to deal with a lot. AB:	Yep.

	SC:	And your role in the movement I guess more so here in Tallahassee, if you could talk on it. Because, you know he talked about visiting the students in the jails, making sure that they were okay, but in terms of your role in it?

	DB:	Well I didn’t really get involved. When I wanted to go to the stores, the dress stores and the stores for the children, I would go and If they seemed to be congenial to our shopping there and you could try on things in the different areas or you could have your children try on things. There was one store that I went to regularly, it was Mendelson’s, he was Jewish. And we had no problems in his store. And in the other stores that I went to if I had any problems—if they said anything about not using their rooms for the children trying on things—we just didn’t go back again. We left and never went back. We used stores that the owners were friendly and invited us to come on in and do whatever we wanted to do. I mean, they didn’t offer any resistance to anything we wanted to do. That’s where we shopped, otherwise we just stayed out of the places we knew we weren’t invited or we weren’t treated like they treated the other customers.





	U:	What about recreational stuff at that time? You know, like family stuff and activities and doing things with kids locally during that time. Remember, it was a challenge, but it was fun. We found people—

	DB:	We had our own little groups, yeah. We had our own areas where we worked together.

	AB:	While there was strict segregation and Jim Crow down here, up north wasn’t free of it, you know. Manhattan, none of the major restaurants midtown, downtown Manhattan would allow Black people in. Warner & Hart, you could go to the Warner & Hart quickie but if you wanted a meal you had to go uptown to 125th where they had the Black YMCA to have dinner. So north was—

	DB:	Yeah it wasn’t—I remember when we lived in Pittsburg, if we wanted to go to the theaters they had balconies where they would let us go. But we couldn’t go down to the lower floors. I mean, we weren’t—and this is in Pittsburg and a lot of people thought that everything in Pittsburg was very integrated. And that wasn’t so. We went to the schools and the schools were all integrated, but in the big department stores, the really exclusive ones where they had very high prices, they had a lot of segregation. So it wasn’t completely integrated, areas that you would think were integrated.

	V:	Did you have your children before you came to Florida?



	AB:	Well, in a way. I was in med school when Celeste came, you were in Tallahassee—

	DB:	Yeah, I came to Tallahassee to deliver Celeste.



	AB:	And then when we had AJ we were in the Air Force—





	DB:	Air Force, so he was delivered there— AB:	At the hospital in the Air Force.

	DB:	And the younger two—



	AB:	The younger two were delivered here. At— DB:	Yeah. Dr. Foot.

		V:		I was curious, so then they grew up in segregated schooling? AB:	Mmhm.

	V:	I was wondering, how did you talk about, because they were still in school then when the schools were integrated?

	AB:	Yeah.



	V:	How did you guys talk about integration with your kids?



	AB:	I don’t think that we sat down and had any formal talk—it was a constant discussion in the family about it and with friends and relatives and so on and so forth. So that they got the information but it wasn’t a formal talk that we sat down—

	DB:	And when the children went to school, they were just—Celeste was the first one that went and the older child. And she had no problems at all.

	AB:	Well, they had problems.



	DB:	Yeah, but the classes they couldn’t do anything to her. She was so far superior to so many of them in the class that they always really made it seem very comfortable for her in most cases. There were some courses where there was definitely a hesitant in really asking her to participate. But in most of the classes





that she took she had no problem, and she was such a good student that a lot of them just looked up to her.

	U:	I was gonna ask, where did everybody go for elementary here?



	DB:	They started off at Lucy Moltin—at least AJ did—but David and Michael started here at—what’s the place—still right around the corner.

	U:	Sabal Palm?



	DB:	Yeah.



	U:	Really?



	AB:	That was here.



	U:	So Lucy Moltin, Sabal Palm, and then? DB:	Caroline Brevard.

	U:	So public school systems.



	DB:	Mmhm. And Cobb, Celeste went to Cob before she went to Florida. Then she went—

	AB:	I thought she went to Leon.



DB:  No, she went to Cobb, then she went to Leon, then she went to Florida High RB:  And everybody graduated from Florida High for high school?

DB:  Mmhm. Yeah, well, AJ graduated from Florida High. Celeste did too didn’t she? She didn’t graduate, that’s right. She was accepted at Princeton in her eleventh grade—

SC:  Wow!



	V:	That’s where she went! [Laughter] Wow. DB:	So she didn’t have to finish high school.





	SC:	That’s incredible. Wow. How did that happen?



	DB:	She applied, and she was in the first class of late women students. RB:	That’s so cool.

	SC:	Smarts run in the family, them?



	DB:	She—well, all of them are smart. She is a very good student.



	U:	And AJ is really into aviation. Lots of [inaudible] your background in aviation was passed to your son.

	DB:	Oh yeah. He has his own plane, flies all around. RB:	Plane? Wow.

	AB:	It’s not a big plane but—



	U:	He’s very involved with like the red tails and the Tuskegee Airman project and I just love keeping up with him on Facebook because he’s always posting such— I’m like, “Wow, I didn’t know that.” Thought provoking pieces and stuff.

	V:	I was actually also curious about another aspect of school integration. When they integrated the schools in Tallahassee, did they immediately integrate or did they try to integrate by classes like I know other parts of Florida did, where they’re like, “Okay, we’re going to integrate the first grade first, and then it’s gonna go up from there.”

	DB:	No I think when they— AB:	The whole school.

	DB:	Yeah, the whole school. The whole school integrated.



	U:	Did you know how Celeste felt? Did she ever express any concern about— DB:	No she was—I could tell that—





	U:	Maybe not Celeste. Celeste was a whole category by herself.



	DB:	Yeah I could tell that—she never complained about it, but I could tell sometimes that she was a little down about the way things were happening in the school, in the class. But she was such a good student that they wanted her to participate. A lot of the classes were happy to have her.

	RB:	I was interested in where you found community here in Tallahassee? I know we’ve done interviews in the past where they talk about like church being that type of space and I wanted to know what your experience was with that?

	DB:	Well, we weren’t churchgoers. I got the children to go to Sunday school, yeah. U:	But what other social outlets?

	RB:	Yeah, where did you find community?



	DB:	Oh, I was in different groups like a sorority and a Jack-and-Jill and I had the children involved in all the little activities that they had, that the organizations had for the children. So they all kept very busy and they were all active in organization like sororities and—well, the boys weren’t interested in those things, but they were in Jack-and-Jill, one of the integrated little groups—well, it wasn’t integrated what I meant was girls and boys. And David and the younger boys were into those things more than AJ. AJ was more interested in airplanes.

	AB:	And tools.



	DB:	And tools, that’s right. [Laughter]



	U:	And all of your guys are very—I know Dr. Brickler is definitely into physical fitness before it was like a big thing. I mean Jack Levane, I mean, he was a runner, he was just known as being one of the gurus in the pioneer days of—I’m like—





	DB:	He was a runner. He was a great runner!



	U:	Running everywhere. And I think the kids, the boys got a— DB:	The boys did.

	U:	So how did you come to doing that Dr. Brickler?



	AB:	I learned that from my patients. Really, it was true. It became obvious that the patients that were active who were doing things on the farm and so forth and keeping their weight under control were the healthy ones and those that were overweight and not keeping themselves fit were the unhealthy ones. So it dawned on me that maybe you gotta learn something from these people. So I started running.

	DB:	He was in a Marine Corps marathon. I don’t mean just— RB:	That’s intense. That’s not just running.

	U:	That’s what I’m saying. And the boys kind of did— DB:	Yeah, AJ, AJ was very good at it.

	AB:	The other two boys didn’t— U:	“There goes Dr. Brickler!” SC:	“On his run again.”

	U:	That was a unique kind of real special, like I said, before all this fitness and stuff—I see how they’re running and a testament to his own practice and physical fitness.

	AB:	“Who is this crazy guy?” [Laughter]



	DB:	He ran in the Marine Corps marathon in Washington. We all went up there and we had a great time watching him run.





	SC:	Aw, that’s wonderful. Did you do any other marathons or?



	AB:	I ran the Marine Corps thirteen times because the kids were in med school and they were in residency so I had a free place to stay.

	SC:	Okay.



	AB:	Ran the marathon here in town twice. And then the Boston once, just because everybody wants to run the Boston.

	RB:	Do you still run?



	AB:	I’m hardly walking! I’m ninety years old.[Laughter] RB:	When did you stop running?

	AB:	When I was eighty. RB:	Eighty?

	AB:	Mmhmm.



	SC:	That’s incredible. Wow. AB:	That was ten years ago.

	U:	Do you have any kind of fitness routine now even if you don’t run?



	AB:	Yeah, I have a treadmill back in the bedroom. I get up on the treadmill, really it’s just a fast walk.

	RB:	I’ve heard great things about walking.



	V:	I think that’s more than most ninety-year-olds would say.



	U:	And Mrs. Brickler you were very into—I remember your mom and your group and playing all these card games at home. Because we made our lives, we were not feeling deprived. You know, there was so much socialization going on amongst—

	DB:	And I got interested in Bridge and—





	U:	Yes and it’s too good.



	DB:	Now I’m a gold life master. [Laughter] V:	Geez!

	DB:	I play at the senior center. They have games for the Bridge and other activities but I go there to play regularly.

	SC:	You’re probably a winner, I believe it. DB:	I’m a gold life master. [Laughter]

	U:	That’s the second time she said that: a gold life master.



	AB:	You know it was this area—and I say it, it was a mean little city when I came but the university, the community around the university with the faculty and everything, we had our own little group and our own little enclave and we had a good time.

	DB:	We did all kinds of activities, yeah.



	U:	We did Girl Scouts. We couldn’t join the other Girl Scout groups so— DB:	--we had our own.

	U:	Moms and parents got our own Girl Scout group and you know, camping and things like swimming, you know, couldn’t go to the swimming pools.

	DB:	Had our own pool. [Laughter]



	U:	I didn’t feel deprived as a child. I mean there were times when we went out that you realized we were different but in terms of the friendships and the bonding and the riding the bikes in the neighborhood and down the dirt street and just—

	DB:	Right. That’s right.





	AB:	Everybody looks out for everybody else. You got into trouble and somebody else’s parents saw you in trouble they’d give ‘em whippings.

	RB:	So, everybody had a lot of parents? AB:	Yeah.

	U:	Yes. That whole group, we didn’t lock our doors. And you knew the days you could go to certain places—

	DB:	And you knew where you could go, you knew what you were—how far you could go. And you always pushed it a little further.

	V:	I was actually curious just because this still happens where I’m from in Fort Meyers where people will reject the service of a doctor because they tell the people “I don’t want that doctor working with me,” because of their race or ethnicity usually. And typically it’s for people from places like India or the Middle East or things like that. How long did that type of racism last here in Tallahassee? Because I remember you saying that happened after the integration with TMH?

	AB:	It was very, very episodic, spotty. And it didn’t really surface as a real problem.



	And I can’t give you a definite answer to that— V:	Kind of depended on the person?

	AB:	Yeah. Individuals, perhaps, but it wasn’t something that really day-in and day-out bothered me very much. If you worked in the Emergency Room—I was in the Emergency Room over at TMH and somebody comes in and in an emergency, you’re there. They’re not about to say, “I want somebody else.”

	SC:	Yeah, right.





	AB:	If you’re in an auto accident you take what you got. We didn’t have as much trouble as you might have thought we would have had.

	V:	I guess the last thing I can think of was, after the Civil Rights movement, after things started—I don’t think things ever calmed down but—after things were integrated what kinds of problems were people looking to solve next? Like what kind of went unsolved during the movement?

	AB:	Well, you know we were still having a lot of problems in the inner city with a lack of opportunity, lack of self-motivation, and that’s becoming more of a problem than it was really before we integrated. The family structure was much better in a way before we integrated than it is now. And family structure has really been decimated by drugs and so forth that have led to an increase in out-of-wedlock pregnancies and parental structure which has resulted in the big problems that we’re having with crime and so forth and so on. And I’m very disappointed in the fact that that doesn’t seem to be getting better as much as I hope it would have been after the [19]60s when we got things integrated. I thought things were going to get—particularly if we elected a president that was Black—that we were going to really sail on but we really need a whole lot of attention to the Black inner-city community. And so many of the things that are being tried now haven’t been successful and we need to be trying something different.

		V:	Dorothy, did you have any thoughts on that? On the question? DB:		No. Not really. Ask the question again.

	V:	It’s all right. I want to know your take—I was curious about things you thought may have gone unsolved from the Civil Rights movement?





	DB:	Oh well there were certainly things like education for the majority of the children that were left behind. I wish there was some way that they could all be brought up so that everybody would have an equal chance at their education and right now it’s not that way. There’s still problems with integrating the schools so that there aren’t schools that aren’t making any progress at all and that should be integrated with the other schools so that everybody would have the same chance at getting a good education. And that is not the case right now. There are so many areas that the children are not getting the kind of education that they should get and I just wish there were a way to bring all the schools up to par. So that everybody, all the children, would be getting an equal chance at a good education and that’s not happening. And I’m sure there’s a way to do this, there must be a way that every child has the same chance at an education, an equal education. And that is really not happening now. There are so many schools that are not—well, they don’t have the right teachers. The teachers are not as good in some schools. Other schools have very good education all around; some schools are just left behind. And we all know that this is the case. There a lot of schools that do not have the right to— good teachers. Some schools have excellent teachers, they have excellent curricula and other schools are just so far behind and they’re not bringing them up.

	SC:	My mom’s a teacher at a Title I school and so I see that a lot even in one community where I’m from, down south, is you have schools with great teachers just down the road and then schools where predominately minorities are that get





half the funding, if anything. Outdated textbooks and then the bad computers, makes a huge difference.

	AB:	I think it just such a breakdown in the family structure that it’s almost non-existent now in certain areas that have left these kids. Up on the ward I’ve seen little girls coming in who are pregnant and they’re having trouble reading at a fourth grade, fifth grade level. And you just know that you deliver the baby and he’s gonna be in that same kind of trouble. It’s really depressing.

	V:	I know that you mentioned you were kind of hopeful with things when you mentioned—I don’t remember what your exact words were but you mentioned us having a Black president with the election of Barack Obama, did that have any kind of particular impact on you in maybe your outlook on the future?

	AB:	Well, yeah, you know I was just proud of the whole country. People could come around to that way of people, it was something to be proud of, as far as the country is concerned. And proud of the people who put aside their prejudices to elect him. It said a lot. Whatever your feelings were about how he managed the presidency, it did say a whole lot of the fact that he was elected. It said a whole lot about the country. And then I felt that that would be a stimulus to the inner city community to say, “Well if that can happen, we can overcome for sure.”

	DB:	And then—God! Trump.



	AB:	It just didn’t materialize. And it’s so disappointing that that has happened. Of course, there is a schism where middle class Black families have succeeded— you’ve also got now there’s a billionaire who paid the student loans on all the kids at Morehouse, so you know that success is there. The segregation as a





legislative thing has disappeared, but socially we’ve got problems still. And those problems are very, very difficult. So that we just have a group here and a group there and they’re just pulling apart and this horrible separation that’s going on now has really got—it just foretells a whole lot of trouble in the future if we don’t really stop and re-think what we’re doing.

	DB:	And being able to get rid of Trump. [Laughter] SC:	There we are.

AB:  I’m not a Trump-er from way back. I don’t like him very much because he’s just crude. He’s crude. For instance, what he said about Baltimore. He’s right, it’s a horrible place. If you’ve ever been to Baltimore, it is. It’s just a wreck.

	DB:	But I don’t give him any credit for saying—I mean, he didn’t do us any favor about talking about us like that.

	AB:	I think he did it only because he’s hoping it made that separation even worse to ingratiate himself with his own people and to win the re-election. But still the, when you look at the structure in Baltimore, the mayor, the councils, comings they’re all politicians that are Black and they have just not succeeded. And we need something to help us make it better. And we need a whole lot of people younger and more vigorous than I am and smarter than I am to get into that.

Well, there’s gotta be a change somewhere down the line.



	V:	Well, I think that’s a good note to end on.



	U:	What would you like your legacy—what would you like to be, yeah, remembered for? Both of you. What would you like, when that chapter closes for all of us, what do you want us to—or most proud of about?





	AB:	Well, I guess my kids and other than I told you I was sick! [Laughter] He did his best.

	DB:	I’d like to think that my children have carried on from what we’ve started and they have all done well and made their mark on the community and stayed—well the city of Tallahassee.

	AB:	Well, there you are, now she’s the wisest one in the family. Our legacy is our children, and they continue to do as well as they’re doing now, be good citizens and a substantial part of the community that’s a legacy.

	DB:	Giving to the community what they do.



	U:	And they’re being very demure about their accomplishments in town because just recently Dr. Brickler had a whole—and I don’t want to say it incorrectly—a whole wing? Or a whole portion of the hospital? Named after him. At the hospital.

	SC:	That’s a big legacy.



	U:	That he integrated. That he helped with those early days—what was that recent honoring?

	AB:	Yeah well it’s just a matter of if you live long enough somebody’s gotta do something stupid—

	DB:	Yeah, he had a wing of the hospital named after him.



	AB:	The paternity part of the hospital, just put my name up there. SC:	That’s incredible, congratulations.

	AB:	Well they will take it down, I think, after I— DB:	No they won’t!

	SC:	No!





	DB:	I don’t think so, no. Your sons and their grandson— U:	We would know!

	DB:	They’ll keep it there.



	U:	That was just a couple months ago, right? DB:	No, that was last year.

	U:	Was it last year? Okay. He’s been honored so much with his retirement that every time you try to do something awesome in the paper about him—after how many years were you practicing?

	AB:	Sixty.



	SC:	Wow. That’s incredible. DB:	Sixty years.

	SC:	I’m sure your children are very proud that you’re their parents.



	AB:	That’s what they say about Mr. Thusal and the only thing they remember him for is the fact that he lives a thousand years and I guess—practice for sixty years and whether it was a good practice or a bad practice that’s immaterial.

	DB:	It was a good practice. A very good practice.



	SC:	I think the meaning of the winks is—it must have been good.



	U:	It’s there a collage of like a whole lot of his babies he helped deliver? It’s so, and it’s interesting because now I’ve had to occasion to go see their son, and it’s kind of weird to go to your classmate for gynecological stuff—you know, AJ’s like, “Well, you’re gonna come on in here?” And I’m like, “Oh, you know—” you were in my class! I don’t wanna get on the table with you! [Laughter] He said, “You come in here and see me or you can go to the emergency room” and so he came





to deliver one of them, I said, “Okay. I’m coming, I’m just gonna have to put my senior class behind me because I need to be seen.”

	SC:	Well we just want to thank you so much again for just allowing us to come and talk with y’all.

	AB:	I’m glad to have you. Every now and then after retirement you don’t get to see human beings much. [Laughter] So it’s always a good thing to see.

	U:	I left you a copy—I brought in a copy of the catalogue of the some of the holdings in the archives—

	SC:	She made that actually, it’s really nice. DB:	Oh you made it?

	RH:	I designed it, yeah. AB:	What is it?

	RB:	It’s a catalogue of all the interviews that we have conducted in the African American History Project, so you’ll see the names of the people that we interviewed and when we interviewed them. A lot of times we’ll have people look through them and find people that they know so we decided to leave a copy here for you.

	AB:	All right, well thank you. RB:	Yeah of course.

	U:	It’s done by counties, kind of like areas of the state, so you don’t have to kind of flip through Miami and—if you know you’re looking for a certain area and want to look for people, it’s catalogued by region and counties and so it makes it—

	SC:	You’ll be in the next edition.





	RB:	Yeah, the next edition you’ll see your name.



	U:	That’d be nice to look at with the kids, see what in turn because AJ—what’s his wife’s—

	DB:	Mildred.



	U:	--Mildred were not able to, I wanted to get them to come to Bethel but they’re going to be getting back in town so late to talk to them to get the follow-up.

Maybe on the next time we can get them to kind of get that whole generational story, which is what I was working for. But to let them see part of where it’s going. And it will be available for people eventually—where? How can they access it?

	RB:	It’s gonna be on the UFDC which is the University of Florida Digital Collection.



And so you’ll just be able to go onto Smathers—which is our library—website and then click on the UFDC and from there it will be—you can put your name in and you will see your transcript. And yeah you should be able to access your recording.

	U:	And it will be available to worldwide— RB:	Everyone.

	U:	School kids. Worldwide.



AB:  And people in the north will be in their little frozen houses reading about us. SC:  Maybe, maybe.

RB:  Yeah, it’s accessible to everyone and I know it’s so important, I know that there’s a lot of students that use these all the time for dissertation work and it’s just really great. We’re really thankful for both of you.





	U:	And I like that idea because it allows the interviewees to tell their story, not in some history book or somebody where somebody decided, “Hey this is the story I want to tell. I own the story.” So I’m so glad that we’ve been able to connect with this group and this whole project. But there’s a program at UF, right?

	RB:	Yes, that’s where we work. U:	The program is called?

	RB:	The Samuel Proctor Oral History Program.



	SC:	So we’ve all been working there for about—Two years Now. U:	Under the leadership of Dr. Ortiz?

	SC:	Dr. Ortiz, yeah.



	U:	Who just recently got interviewed for PBS? SC:	Yeah.

	U:	So he’s yeah he’s really kind of bringing all of this stuff really into light, telling our own stories. I mean how many times you pick up a history book or your kids and then now they’re learning history stuff now that wasn’t in the books that they were using—when they’re like “Woah I didn’t know that.” We weren’t taught that, It wasn’t in our books. So to be able to tell our own stories. So we really want to thank you because I know you’ve been interviewed like crazy over the last year or two more so than usual so—and then we can cut it back thirty minutes from 9:30 to ten o’ clock on a Sunday morning—yes, thank you so much.

	SC:	Thank you.



	DB:	Thank you for coming.











[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Abby Lovett



	Audit Edited by:	Kasamba Kokayi March 31, 2021, Sandra Romero, May 26, 2021 Final-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, May 26, 2021