AAHP 050; Stafford; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 050 Samuel Stafford African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Keegan Berry on June 11, 2009 46 minutes | 18 pages



Abstract: Dr. Samuel Stafford grew up in Tallahassee, Florida, and describes the educational conditions he experienced under a segregated school system. He explains that because Florida State University is in the center of Tallahassee, and segregation was fiercely enforced there, his family always needed to travel far out of their way to avoid the area when they headed from their home over to the Black businesses on the other side of the city. Dr. Stafford also discusses what it was like to attend FSU from 1968-1972.





Keywords: [African American History; Leon County, Florida; Segregation; Florida State University]

















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 050

Interviewee: Samuel Stafford Interviewer: Keegan Berry Date: June 11, 2009



	B:	Hello. Today is June 11, I am here with Mr. Samuel Stafford and we are going to be talking about his experiences with the Jim Crow Era and basically just Gainesville in general. So, hi. My name is Keegan and this is Mr. Stafford.

	S:	Hello.



	B:	I guess we could start with how was your early family like? Where are you from?



Where did you grow up? All those fun things.



	S:	Which is important. I grew up and was raised in Tallahassee, Florida. I was raised in the very early [19]50s in Tallahassee, which I must admit was not the most virulent period of Jim Crow laws and customs, but still towards the tail end of it since it was pre-brown won. Tallahassee was, and to some extent still is in certain sections, very—I’m talking to this, I don’t want to be rude—segregated. At the time I was growing up, there were two state universities there, Florida A&M University—FAMU—which was and still is predominantly Black, it’s a land grant college. Nowadays, the appropriate acronym is HBCU. Then Florida State University, which as you know being a gator, used to be Florida State College for Women, but it was Florida State University when I was there in the very early 50s. I do remember, more so, I was educated in a totally segregated environment. Our schools were the traditional—this is for elementary and what’s called junior high—separate but equal. I know that there was one school board— I’m starting with education. There was one school board and all of the members of the school board, as well as the supervisor of the election so to speak—the superintendent—was White. Those few Blacks who were able to vote, as I





remember my folks telling me, didn’t have any choice in terms of who the school board members were. The only time we saw, as elementary students, the supervisor of education was generally during graduation when he—and it was always a White male—would come to our graduation just to sit on the stage, be introduced, and watch the little kids do this and that.

	B:	Figurehead.



	S:	Other than that, we never saw anyone who was Anglo, nor from the school board. What is particularly striking to me are several episodes of a consistent nature. First was that all of our textbooks were hand-me-down textbooks. We used to get excited at the beginning of each academic year because we would get the textbooks that had been used by the White kids the previous years—not year, but years. Of course, they were outdated, older editions. They were usually torn up, people had marked all over them, but yet still they were better than what we had which were the previous hand-me-downs. Also, our teachers, who were truly considered at that time, because they were all Black professionals in our communities. Our teachers perpetually had to come out of their pockets for things like pencils, crayons, and—for some kids who couldn’t afford it—the requisite paper. Back then, we had tablets with very poor quality paper. The paper we used to call “cornbread paper” because it was brown, had spots, chips of wood, and things in it that sometimes would mess up your ability to write on a straight line. Now remember, this was elementary school. There was no formal kindergarten back then and there certainly wasn’t any pre-school back then. It was just public schools started at first grade. My first through third grade was





literally in a one-school, one-room—I guess you could call it a quasi-log cabin. It was a building that was made out of wood, that was on concrete stilts, if you would, three or four feet. I remember the steps made out of wood too. There was one huge room that had a coal and wood-burning pot-belly stove in the middle and that was to heat the entire one room. Three classes were taught there by one teacher, we were on benches, in triangles, with the apex of the triangle blunted facing the pot-bellied stove in the center, and then the base going out from it. Surprisingly, because everyone, both through their parents and through the example that teachers set—and it was one teacher—and periodically we’d have education students from FAMU rotate through as what you would call practice teachers, or interns. Surprisingly, there were few, as I remember, disciplinary problems because the kids were really—it had been honed and literally beat into them from a positive standpoint that the only way out was through education, so it was valued. People sat in their seats, they kept quiet. Of course, you had a couple of kids who couldn’t sit still, but the teachers had more humane ways of getting people to do what they were supposed to do. I remember very vividly that on my side of town, which was the south side of Tallahassee, where most Blacks lived, it was safe to walk to school because you walked through your own neighborhoods and people looked out for you and after you to make sure no danger or harm came to you. I also remember that a number of my classmates were poor and, more than that, didn’t have much to eat. I say that because during the latter part of my elementary school experience in Tallahassee—I’m speaking to this now—the spillover effect of a free lunch





program from the federal government began. This was probably in the mid 50s, and I know that there used to be little cartons of milk and smaller square cartons of orange juice that kids could get if they got to school early enough. And although this may seem unflattering, these images have stuck with me. I know that many of the kids who were very poor, who didn’t have much to eat, who used to come to school without any food, usually their mouths or their lips were very pale and in some fashion ashy, even during the warmer months. I used to take that in as being an example of them being extremely hungry. I know that when the milk and the little cartons of orange juice—and I can’t think if there was anything other than that became a staple—that those kids facial expressions, more than that, their lips, everything, changed and they were more alert in class and more participatory, etcetera. Oddly enough, as it is right now, there seem to be more girls in my classes than boys. I think part of that was due to the fact that Tallahassee still, in terms of employment, offered agrarian type of opportunities. Hence, if you were male and even of elementary school age, when the watermelon season came around in the spring, or when the sugar cane season came around in the fall, you were periodically pulled away or it was almost impossible for you to keep up with your work. So a lot of the males were stripped away from class in order to work, to help, to support the family. Now, I know that Jim Crow laws and customs were taught in school, that the parents in the various neighborhoods, from a very young age, taught and warned us mainly about the dangers. For example: we were taught never to look a White person in the eye, or in the face, and to always look down even as kids. In those days: [19]50s, late





[19]50s, early [19]60s, men and indeed young children, especially males used to wear hats—not caps, but hats with brims. We were told, and it was a practice, that if you were in the presence of someone who was a White—male or female— you were supposed to doff or take your hat off, hold it in your hands, either at your side or in front of you, to look down, to speak as best you can, but speak again only when spoken to, and never to look anyone in the face. Now, as you became older, we were told, and this is a practice especially if you were male, that you were never to look at any White female—no matter what age—because, as I am sure you have been told, that was a very dangerous thing to do. Because stereotypically or not, that seemed to be a trigger for vigilante type of activity, for you to get beat up, or allegations to be made that you were being disrespectful, fresh, or something to that effect. These were the White females.

	B:	That was one of the staples that White superiority kind of relied on, was to protect the White women, something they really liked to harp upon.

	S:	Oh without a doubt, historically. I teach this particular incident to my students. Historically, I guess one of the more famous cases or examples of that is the Emmitt Till affair in Mississippi where this young Chicagoan, early teens—I think he was about 14—unfortunately down in Mississippi, was alleged to have spoken fresh to a White woman. Both her husband and brother-in-law came, got him from his uncle’s house in the middle of the night, took him out, and killed him. Of course, his body was subsequently found, brought back to Chicago, and became a cause célèbre—at least in the Black community—in terms of what would happen. Going back to Tallahassee, I had mentioned FAMU and Florida State.





Florida State was highly and extremely segregated. In fact, it was so segregated that it was against the law, both state and local, for anyone who was Black to be on FSU’s campus unless you worked there. During that period of time, there were maids and they had uniforms that they would wear. I think it was either blue or grey starched tops and dresses with White aprons and I know that there were males who worked as landscape, gardeners, maintenance people, et cetera. But unless you had the requisite uniform on with the requisite ID Badge, you could not be on Florida State’s campus, anywhere on that campus. The campus, by the way, was open. It wasn’t fenced in, but you knew you took your life in your hands or you could be charged if you went on that campus. Consequently, because Florida State’s in the middle of Tallahassee proper, it’s on some of the highest hills in Tallahassee. To get to the other side of town—north side of town—where most of the purveyors of dry goods, vegetables, where the single pharmacist, the only dentist, and the single Black doctor were, you had to traverse. You had to go around FSU, which made your trip from the south side of town, where most Blacks lived in Tallahassee, to the north side just across US Highway 90—or Tennessee Street—a pretty long journey. I do remember that because the barber shop—and there were several of them—where we used to go, my father would take us, that’s myself and my two brothers, to get these dog-gone haircuts. It seemed like every two weeks, we would have to go the barbershop, we had to go around FSU, and I used to always wonder. Number one: there was a more direct way. We saw all these streets, why we had to take this circuitous route to get to the barbershop, I’d ask my father repeatedly, and he’d just say “well that’s just a





part of town. That’s an institution or school, that we weren’t allowed to go to or be on their property” and that’s why he had to take this route. It didn’t make sense, but as I got older—from a self-preservation stand point—I accepted it. One of the benefits, believe it or not, and there are benefits to everything, of Jim Crow laws and customs was that our neighborhoods were tighter and very supportive. Sure there were various economically, slash social, slash educationally based neighborhoods—some better than others—that were Black, but we all had one thing in mind and that was survival of our race, kids families, etcetera. So people looked out for one another. That’s right, the community was much, much tighter. As I intimated earlier, teachers were literally revered because they had the responsibility not only to inculcate and teach the academic subjects—reading, writing, arithmetic, science, things of that nature—but to, I guess from another source, stress and acculturate succeeding generations with just what it would take to survive in a segregated Jim Crow based society. So hearing it at home, at the dinner table, and hearing it perpetually at school was very important. That old saying about it takes a village to raise a child, well this was very apparent and true during the extreme segregated periods. From my standpoint, living as long as I have, I do see that one of the—among many—negative aspects of the integration of our society has been a breakdown of the neighborhood, the breakdown of the community, hence less of an emphasis on people looking out for each other no matter what their ethnic background, and a reduction in the reverence for education or the purveyors of education. That means teachers and principals, which I think has been the bane of our community and our society—





when I say our, I mean Black society—ever since. We’ve had one or two generations of integration, experienced individuals under our belt, and it’s only through further education or knowing your history that I feel the brakes can be put on this deterioration. But then again if there is a lack of a championing or recognition of the importance of education, I don’t see that turning around. I wanna also stress that I grew up during a period of time when we had separate drinking fountains, and I can remember the few times that I would go downtown with my parents—either my father or my mother—and it would be very hot, because after all it was Tallahassee. In the summer there was—really—separate fountains. There was one that had a sign that said “Colored,” and the other one that had a sign that said “White.” What was odd about it was that usually the drinking fountains downtown—and I can remember this on Adams Street— usually was a sort of like a shallow, porcelain tub and across it ran a pipe. Every maybe foot and a half to two feet in this pipe, there was a kind of literally a drinking fountain that you could push down on a button and the water would come out because the water perpetually went through this pipe. What was odd was that maybe, god, less than three feet from the White drinking fountain was the Colored drinking fountain, and it was the same pipe with the same water running through it, but it was just a section that said “Colored,” you pushed it, and it was the same water coming up. Now, I will admit, as I remember that the porcelain basin under the pipe where the water fountains were for the Whites was usually maintained and a lot cleaner than the porcelain shallow basin with the same pipe, with the water running through it, was for Blacks. But still, it





puzzled me as a young person; geez, why did I have to drink at this one that wasn’t that clean and inviting, yet the same pipe had the same water that we all would drink? I also remember going into the few stores that would allow Blacks to go into to buy dry goods. Most of those stores, by the way, were run by ethnic groups that, well, they were viewed as immigrant groups. Jewish people from Russia, I remember my father teaching me that. A lot of middle-easterners, mainly from Turkey. Anyway, they traded with whoever came, I can remember my mother having to try on some hats in a store, there was only a certain section of the store—a women’s haberdashery—where she could go and only a certain section of hats that she could try on. But before she could try the hats on, they had this tissue paper that you would pull out—it was about as wide as what we used to know as wax paper, but now people know as saran wrap, but it was tissue made out of paper that you had to put on your head—, shape it to the shape of your head, then try a hat on, and then take it off. Because it was felt that if a White person came after a Black person and tried on the same hat, that whatever the Black person had—disease, cooties, or whatever the heck it was— that it would get on them. So they had to use this tissue paper. The same thing was true in terms of shoes, whether you were male or female. Although this practice is used today with women with these little booty nylon things that people put on to try on shoes, but for males we had to bring our own socks if you tried on any types of shoes. But that’s in the downtown area. In our section of town, just across I might add Tennessee Street, which was called French Town—I don’t know why it was called French town I didn’t see any French people there—,





but Blacks could move around freely. We could, as I said, go see our doctor, our dentist, the one pharmacy, which by the way, is still there in Tallahassee on Macomb Street, just on the other side, just north of Tennessee Street. The Economy Drug Store is still there. It’s in its third generation, I might add, of family ownership, serving Blacks. You could just pick up on what was going on in the community, you could move about freely, you didn’t have to step off the sidewalk if a White person came. You could keep your hat on, you could look at whoever you wanted to. It was just a safe, comforting, affirming environment where you were in, finally, the majority. Also on that side of town, the North side of town, was the only Black high school, Lincoln High School,—of course named after Abraham Lincoln—that most Blacks went to. Now, it seems that most of this interview—and I’m going to stop in a second and get some of your questions—it seems most of this interview or recording revolves around education, and that’s because back then and even now, those of us who experienced the tail end of Jim Crow laws and customs in the [19]50s realized the value of and the route to escape, to enhance, and make more positive your lives through proper educational preparation. I was in Tallahassee long enough to know—because I had left Tallahassee for good in 1972—that as integration, pushed by the courts, hit its full stride and the public education system, elementary, junior high, and high school had to change. More often than not what happened was Black elementary schools, Black junior highs, and most especially Black high schools lost their identity, were downgraded, denigrated in my estimation, and not preserved whereas White high schools, elementary, junior highs were. For





example, the longstanding, many, many decades old, premier, Black educational institution in Tallahassee, Lincoln High School, was first reduced to a junior high, and then ultimately closed and is now, I believe, either a community center or some type of recreational center on that side of town in Tallahassee. At least that’s what it was when last I visited. I think if you were to speak to anyone or to compare what I am saying about public educational institutions—elementary, junior high, and high school—in almost any city in America, the same happened. While this may sound like a conspiracy, I know, logically, a by-product of reducing from high school status to junior high school status, or closing all- together formerly Black public educational institutions was this negative result, which was to undercut and eliminate, through the passage of time, the once proud tradition, link to, and emphasis on public education at the elementary and secondary school level, which formed a basis of pride and unity in the Black community. Without that, as we have seen throughout the nation, but especially—I know—in Tallahassee and for the years I have been in Gainesville this is true. Without a prideful link with an educational institution that members of a community can consistently point to, rally around, or use as a kind of a focal point, the true school spirit, the true emphasis on education began to be dissipated. I know that happened in Tallahassee with Lincoln High and I daresay it has happened elsewhere. Now, on that less than positive note, I’m gonna take a break. Do you have any questions?

	B:	Yeah, let’s go back to the water fountain in the downtown area. A lot of people remember a specific, almost earth-shattering event—if you will—where kind of





the idea of the segregated society was revealed to them, where you kind of grow up, you don’t really notice, and then all of a sudden there is an event that sort of turns everything into that Black and White scenario. Do you have something like that? Do you remember anything like that?

	S:	Well, nothing earthshattering. Well you don’t have to understand, I will tell you. When I came to Tallahassee in the very, very early [19]50s, I mean really early [19]50s, I was about two years old. So I was kind of aware of what was going on. Secondly, because we had FAMU and FSU, and the two universities were literally separated by a railroad track—our side of the town, their side of the town—it was made abundantly clear to us in our homes and in our lower educational environments that it was dangerous and against our continued existence if we didn’t follow certain rules. So it was more of a gradual process, honed in the schools so that I was very well prepared as I moved forward. The existence in practically all civic activities was separate but unequal—and by that I mean we had a Black movie theatre that was run by a White person, I talked about our different professions and all; there was little opportunity for intercourse among and between the two races. I do know that after the Brown decision, I do know that early efforts by the NAACP, SNCC, and other organizations who found a home in a very ready audience and participants on FAMU’s campus, that there were times when my parents had to keep us home, or told us to stay away from FAMU’s campus. I know that the health department in the late [19]50s was a focal point during the sit-ins and integration demonstrations led mainly by sympathetic, liberal-leaning, Anglo-students from FSU, linking with the more





radical FAMU college students, that when the college students were arrested by law enforcement—primarily the Sheriff’s office and Police Department—that they were brought to the health department and locked in the health department. We were told that they did that on purpose because this was during the height of, believe it or not, Polio being a—I guess you could say a disease. It was still out of control, it was prior to the Salk vaccine, and all that stuff. It was allegedly just like the trail of tears with American Indians. After, we were told, and this could have been an urban legend, to infect those college students with polio so they would get sick and stop raising sand. That’s a cataclysmic memory that I have, but in terms of anything personal, no. The people that I moved with, the kids I was around, the neighborhood, my teachers, my parents, their friends, and all did a pretty good job of acculturating us for our own protection, so that there was little that shocked us.

B:  I guess my next question would be, so you would say that it definitely drove you towards education as a means of simply escaping. Would you say that that also eventually drove you towards pursuing higher education and eventually law?

	S:	Well, the short answer is yes. What I wanted to do, because I went to FSU as an undergrad and I went there because I chose not to go to FAMU, because my parents taught over at FAMU. What I wanted to do with my life as I started to end my undergraduate career at FSU as a comparative religion major, I might add, was to become a theologian, which meant that my next graduate pursuit would have to be divinity school. I wanted to go to divinity school, again not to be a preacher or a minister or anything of that nature, but to be a theologian. I felt that





by virtue of being a theologian, I would be able to bring the teachings of an objective God to address the societal problems that I had experienced and that I had studied that were worldwide—and through theology—, begin to bring people together, and at the same time make people see that we were more alike than we were different. Because in growing up as a child, it always struck me seeing young White girls and boys, that other than seemingly being cleaner and in better, nicer clothes, and in many cases having shoes on when I didn’t, that they were just like me. They would act silly, have fun, laugh at the same things, and all. I couldn’t understand, since they were gonna grow up like me, why we had to be apart. I couldn’t pursue, for financial reasons, going to divinity school, because the scholarship that I and hundreds of other people around the nation competed for was out of my reach. That meant I was unsuccessful. So towards the end of my senior year at FSU, I had to quickly choose something else because I knew I wanted to educate myself further. Because I had worked and supported myself through undergrad, and hence had no debt, I had the ability to take on debt—if you want to call it debt—in terms of graduate or professional school. So, I had always admired a few individuals in the community who had, I felt, been able to make a difference, and among them were a few Black lawyers. You would say, “Black lawyers back in the [19]50s and [19]60s, or even the early [19]70s?” Yes, because you have to remember that under the Separate but Equal rubric, there were literally separate but not equal professional schools.

Among the professional schools was a law school that had been situated at FAMU for many, many decades because the University of Florida would not





admit Blacks. But, in order to comply with the Brown decision, as was done in many states throughout the nation, the legislature had no choice but to fund a Black law school, and it was situated at FAMU. I remember being on FAMU’s campus the summer that, literally, a bunch of U-Haul type trucks were backed up to the law library on FAMU’s campus. I particularly remember it because I said to myself, “why are these large U-Haul trucks—back then they were called national rental, and it was a mama elephant with a baby elephant, and the baby elephant’s trunk was linked to the tail of the mama elephant. Why were these trucks backed up?” They kept coming and going to what I knew at that time was the law library of FAMU’s law school, and what happened was the legislature had endowed, funded, and given permission for FSU to have a law school. They literally moved the law library from FAMU, closed it that summer, moved it, drove it across town to FSU. I think the building was Longmeyer, but it was an already existing building on FSU’s campus. Then that following fall FSU opened a brand new law school, the law school that they have now. So in my mind, through the wiles—that’s W-I-L-E-S—of the legislature, they stole the law school from FAMU and gave it to FSU. I remember that. So when I saw that I couldn’t go to divinity school, I said, “well another way to help human kind to have a platform and the requisite training to show people or in some cases force people to see that we more alike than we were different was through law.” So I quickly took the LSAT, to my surprise cause there were no prep courses back then. I did very well, I cast out a number of places to see where to apply, and among the places I applied to was Duke. Although I didn’t know how fine a school it was, I only knew that it





existed because my mother, during her early college teaching career, had taught at Bennett College, which is in Greensborough, not too far from Durham. She said why don’t I try to apply to Duke? So I attended Duke, got my legal training, and as they say the rest is history.

	B:	I guess my only other question would be what was it like going to FSU, after growing up around Tallahassee, knowing you couldn’t step foot on FSU’s campus?

	S:	You know that’s a very good question, and shows a lot of insight and preparation on your part. It was a challenge—not academically—to overcome probably, at that time, over a decade to decade and a half of acculturation of the fear that FSU and its campus had instilled in me. It was also a challenge to, in essence, extract—and this is a literary phrase—my justified “pound of flesh” from FSU for the inconvenience that it had wrought, not only on me, but my brothers and my family as I remember the many, many years that we had to circumvent and go around that campus to get to French Town, rather than go straight through it because of segregation. So when I went there, I had first went there with a chip on my shoulder. But frankly, due to associations with my fellow and sister classmates—Black and White—, mainly White because the school was, it had just began to open up in the mid-to-late [19]60s. So there weren’t that many, I went there from [19]68 to [19]72, and this was also right at the height of the Vietnam War protests, and also there was a kind of different mentality of Anglos.

	B:	Counter-culture.





	S:	That’s right, anti-authoritarian, counter-culture type of mentality. But I also felt that I should get as much out of FSU as I could, literally and figuratively, initially from a vengeful stand point, but soon and subsequently from just a preparation stand point. I was fortunate enough to stumble upon their very small, but well respected religion department at FSU, who happened to have, during the time I was there, some pretty well recognized national experts in all of the major world religions except the Baha’i faith. But, I took it upon myself, in parallel to my general nature in terms of how I was raised, to major in, as I said, comparative religion. A small, very supportive department, but one that allowed a person to be validated both academically and as a human being. So any rough edges or sharp edges I had vis-à-vis my feelings about FSU having grown up in Tallahassee under severe segregation and the vestiges of Jim Crow laws and customs, were soon rounded and blunted by virtue of the major and the people I was around— my fellow and sister students. FSU prepared me well. FSU, of course, just like many aspects here at Florida, had its excesses in terms of people looking askance at anyone who—

	B:	Was different.



	S:	That’s right, fit the mold of what they thought traditionally should be there, but I was able to brush that off and not let that impact me that much, largely because my Black teachers had prepared me quite well to not only withstand, but to exceed and accelerate any academic performance at FSU. At the same time, I knew deep down, as was instilled in me, that I had to take advantage of and had to prepare myself as best I could. Not only to do good, and to make wherever I





lived better, but as a tangible homage to those who had gone before me. Other questions?

	B:	That’s pretty much it for me.



	S:	Okay. Well I hope that the rather rambling rendition of my experiences and impact upon me, at least in Tallahassee, will be of use to you in this project and I have enjoyed, number one: your perseverance, but number two: this experience in terms of giving these statements, thank you.

	B:	No problem. This concludes our interview. [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Keegan Berry, June 17, 2009 Audit-edited by:	Austyn Szempruch, April 11, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019