AAHP 380; Fisher; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 380 Rosa Lee Fisher African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Ryan Morini and Martine Young on May 30, 2015 1 hour, 31 minutes | 55 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 380

Interviewee: Rosa Lee Fisher

Interviewer: Ryan Morini and Martine Young Date: May 30, 2015



	M:	So, this is Ryan Morini. It’s May 30th, 2015. I’m here—



	F:	Hey, let him interpreting what you saying. Because I can’t hear good! I keep telling you.

	Y:	He’s just talking to the tape before he talk to you. F:	Oh.

	M:	Yeah. Well, you can introduce yourself now.



	Y:	My name is Martine Young. I’m here with Miss Rosa Lee Fisher, and we doing an interview. Miss Rosa Lee is ninety-two years old—

	F:	No, I’m ninety-[inaudible 0:39]. Y:	Ninety-six!

	F:	I’m—I’m ninety-seven. No! Well, you done got me confused! So we’re going? Y:	Yes, ma’am.

	F:	I was ninety-seven years old.



	Y:	Ninety-seven. So she’d be ninety-eight in October, her next birthday. And it’s a blessing just to be here to talk to her. She’s here today to share some history with us to the best of her ability, as far as she can go back on different things. And this is what we lacking today, is the respect of such a time as Miss Fisher here will give us today. All right, Miss Fisher. Go ahead and tell us how things was. I remember you said that as a child, they were real strict, you know?

	F:	Hm?



	Y:	Parents would discipline back then, in them days, wasn’t it? F:	Yeah.





	Y:	Yes, ma’am?



	F:	Not in them days. Now, that was in my granddaddy’s days. I told you about my granddaddy, now I told you, I tell you, I don’t think he’s back. Now, I was his grandchild. [Inaudible 1:57].

	Y:	Yes ma’am. Right. Tell us about that. F:	What’s the one? I lost someone.

	Y:	Tell us about you being a grandchild. Your mother was the Bone Lady, right? F:	Now what’s that?

	Y:	The Bone Lady, Miss Fisher. F:	I don’t want to hear about that.

	Y:	You don’t want to hear about that right now. F:	Mm-mm.

	Y:	Okay. All right. Well, what you want to talk about?



	F:	Let’s talk about my granddaddy and where they come from. Because we was in White Springs. Now, I’m not living the same house. My grandmomma, Luvenia Fisher, she lived in the old house.

	Y:	Old house. Is they Christian back in them days?



	F:	And Granddad take me back—you see, down there is the Little Branch. I don’t know where they are now because, but see, you could go right there on the land. [Laughter] And I’d go. I can’t go now like I used to. But, we would fish down there. You could fish and catch those breams!

	Y:	Yeah! I remember a place called the “trestle.” You ever heard of the trestle? F:	Yeah!





	Y:	Yeah. Then you had the Mill Pond, you know?



	F:	No, I don’t heard—your mom Emma, she passed away. Emma said you—



	Y:	That’s my momma, Emma. Yeah, yeah. She was a nice lady. She was about your age, too. Yeah. Miss Rosa, what do you like to share with us, me and this young man?

	F:	All right, [inaudible 3:50] just in strips, though. It’s short. Y:	Yes, ma’am.

	F:	Ask you how y’all want your strips? Long, or—? Y:	Right.

	F:	How you want it? M:	Long—

	Y:	Tell her what you want. M:	Okay—

	Y:	Talk loud, now.



	M:	Okay. We just want to hear what you remember about the—



	F:	Well, I was trying to tell him about the pond, and the little creek back— Y:	Okay, well, tell him about it.

	F:	I was telling you, it’s right back of my field there. My granddaddy fished with a little pole. And I’d go over behind and catch my bream. [Laughter]

	M:	So you used to go with him? Or did you go—Okay. And then, who’d cook the fish when you got home?







F:









Y:

Yeah. And then—had this part here. Then just take a grubbing hoe and go out there and dig down in the ground, and you have as many worms as you wanted! [Laughter]

Yes, sir! She had good land back there. Baits, baits. They were plentiful.

F:

Mmhm!

Y:

And I remember—

F:

And now—

Y:

You remember Miss Ruthie, don’t you?

F:

Who?

Y:

Miss Ruthie Pinder.

F:

She stayed across the street.

Y:

Right! And she used to cook at Carver High. Her and Ms. Artis.

F:

Yeah! Uh-huh!

Y:

Boy, they cooked some good food, man! They fed the whole community.

F:

Yeah! Yeah! My momma helped raise her. My momma. Queenie.

M:

What was your momma’s name?

F:

I can’t hear him.

Y:

Your momma’s name is Queenie, right?

F:

Mmhm.

M:

Queenie?

Y:

Right.

M:

Okay.

Y:

Yeah. But, your granddaddy used to go fishing with your granddaddy all the time.





	F:	No, I didn’t know him that [inaudible 05:52] that. But I started fishing, and you let me give you—

	Y:	Back in them days, they’d take you fishing with them, they won’t let you go by yourself.

	F:	No! Uh-uh! My daddy—I was telling about me down there. My next door neighbor, I told him, and I said, “Sugar, honey, y’all having it well now.” You used to have as much as you want. It’s changed a lot.

	Y:	Yes, ma’am.



	F:	The world has changed a lot since I came along.



	Y:	Yes ma’am. How you—what kind of way you think the world has changed, to you, looking back?

	F:	Well, people don’t look after each other like they used to. They don’t treat each other like they used to. If my momma told me to go downtown, or go down to the store, then she gave me so many minutes, and then—! [Laughter]

	Y:	Then you’d better be here! Yeah, I know about that. Little bit of that. F:	Uh-huh!

	Y:	Adults, it was much respect back then.



	F:	Uh-huh! Your momma standing on the porch, or bring your out to standing



there. Then she say, [inaudible 07:12]. [Imitates yelling] [Laughter]



	Y:	Ladies like y’all kept my momma straight. Y’all helped raise my momma, know what I’m saying? [Laughter] Hey, if my momma used to leave me at your house, well you would babysit me.

	F:	Yeah.





	Y:	And she’d go off and go to work.



	F:	Yeah! [Inaudible 07:39] that’s your grandmomma. That’s her sister, your grandmomma. Your momma’ momma.

	Y:	Right? Yeah, play it on Lucy. F:	This here the number?

	Y:	Yes, ma’am.



	F:	Well, then, she the one raised my momma, kind of like. Has someone told you [inaudible 07:54].

	M:	Can she tell us anything else about her grandmother?



F:  And your momma told me what to do as well as my momma told me. Because momma told me to go out the door. And when I did go out the door, was sitting out there.

Y:  He say, can you tell him anything else about your grandma? F:  Tell you?

Y:   Yes, ma’am.



	F:	Tell you about—? [Laughter] Ain’t you never been to White Springs? M:	Hm?

	Y:	She say, “You ever been to White Springs?” M:	A couple times, not too much.

	Y:	He say he been here a couple times. He’s from the University of Florida down in Gainesville.

	F:	You know, everybody that wants to come here, then they should done been there.





	Y:	Yes, ma’am.



	F:	They’ve been all over.



	Y:	This place, the elders, we all kind of communicate together, we know one another. Families know—family’s close-knit, you know? It’s family ties. She like my momma to me, you know what I’m saying? Because she helped raise me. And it was passed on down, like she was when she was a kid.

	F:	Mmhm, mmhm.



	Y:	Like she say, she went up town. When she had a place she had to be, she had to be there. Yeah. Oh, big lizard there. He all right.

	F:	I thought that’s that dog! [Laughter] That dog. Is that your nephew, your son or grandson, or one of them? On that—David?

	Y:	Yeah, that’s my cousin. That’s Joseph McKire’s son. David is Joseph McKire’s oldest son.

	F:	Oldest son.



	Y:	He live right behind you there. F:	There?

	Y:	Yeah. What you want say, man? M:	Well, whatever she—

	F:	Now, what I wanted to tell you about: we had a train. You ever hear anything about a train coming through White Springs?

	Y:	A train?



	F:	A train!



	Y:	Yes, ma’am! They got the train right in there.





	F:	I’m talking about a passenger train.



	Y:	Oh, okay! They had a passenger train right here in White Springs. Oh, Lord! I didn’t know that. I remember the—

	F:	The depot?



	Y:	Yes, ma’am. I remember the depot down there. F:	Where?

	Y:	Where Bessie Mae’ house is sitting at. The depot was over there. F:	Uh-huh.

	Y:	I remember they used to put cars over there to sit. But I ain’t never heard of a passenger train—

	F:	Uh-huh. Go on down there and catch the train. Y:	You could catch the train from White Springs! F:	Uh-huh.

	Y:	And go any way you want to back then, huh?



	F:	Yep. And not everywhere—everywhere I know. Then might I—because you know, my aunt—Momma’s sister—she lived in Miami. And she come on that train. And go back on that train. And she used talk about that [inaudible 11:31]. So I know it must have been more than one place. But I know about Lake City. That’s far as me, I got. [Laughter] There was no business.

	Y:	I caught a train myself out of Lake City and went to Texas, but that was an Amtrak. They going through Lake City. They stopped there one time. I don’t know if they started back or not. But, I didn’t know it was a train that you know, but





White Springs used to be—tell me how, like, during the time they had the bank? White Springs had a bank.

	F:	Yes, it did! They sure did! I didn’t have nothing to do with it. See now, that’s how low enough—they didn’t give me no money. And everything was going transferred. But I’d go up there, and go and see them that was putting money in that bank.

	Y:	You don’t know the name of it, do you? F:	No, I don’t.

	Y:	I don’t know either. But this was a real town here at one time, though! F:	Mmhm!

	Y:	Yeah. You know?



	F:	I told you about the depot. We didn’t used to even go to town, to buy groceries, and buy meat and things like that? And there was a big market, is right off. You know where you go up and step on him had to go up to this ch—

	Y:	I thought that was a Pearl 99.



	F:	No!



	Y:	It wasn’t no Pearl 99? There used to be a store up there, a grocery store. F:	Oh! Unh-uh!

	Y:	Up there by Ms. Nellie’ pool house up there, now. F:	Up there?

	Y:	Yeah. By Ms. Nellie’ pool?



	F:	No. Here, Ms. Janie Fields has one, and Miss Mars Parmel. Y:	Yes ma’am. Miss Parmel, that’s a big name now. Yeah.





	F:	Then, when Momma—couldn’t come without Momma. The milkman, he come and got Momma, the milkman, and they’d drive, all of them would go down there, and he put money, and then he built a big old store. On that corner where you— Lord help me—

	Y:	That’s the corner I’m talking about. Pearly 99. You’re going like you’re going toward Jasper. They got a storage bin up there now.

	F:	Over up?



	Y:	Yeah. You know about Mr. Carver. F:	George Carver?

	Y:	Sonny Carver.



	F:	Sonny Carver.



	Y:	Yeah. He owned a grocery store where the S&S at now. Sonny Carver. F:	Oh! [Inaudible 14:39] dead!

	Y:	He dead, but he owned a store back when he was alive. [Laughter] And they done sold it to the S&S franchise, now. And he got kids living, he got a son living on Woodpecker out. It’s Larry Carver, is his name.

	F:	Oh! Uh-huh, uh-huh.



	Y:	But he used to run a place up there. Is anything you want to— F:	Now—and he had, let me see here: Rose Fair, Colonia—

	Y:	She’s talking about hotels now. F:	Lord help me, Jesus—Telford.

	Y:	Telford Hotel, the one way over there. F:	Yes, there’s three hotels.





	Y:	That’s right here in White Springs. Yeah.



	F:	You couldn’t get through White Springs, hardly. Y:	They had—

	F:	You couldn’t hardly get through White Springs.



	Y:	Hey, back in the day, they used to have a [inaudible 15:41]—



	F:	See all of them balloons, and wagons, and that. [Inaudible 15:44] no cars.



	Y:	Gina with the light-brown hair, that used to be a big thing. Every year, they’d throw a event out there. And I understand they brought Teddy Mosely right down here and dipped him in Springhouse Curve, because the amount of sulphur in the spring—the Springhouse, the spring that’s down there, is the Florida spring. Man, that spring was so powerful—like, from my house, like, two or three miles away, I could smell it. When the wind get into it, you smell that sulphur all over White Springs, man! From the water.

	F:	Mmhm!



	Y:	That’s how, you know, it’s pretty spring, man. Peoples used to come in and dip and bathe in it, because the sulphur’s good for healing.

	F:	Well, Ms. Janey had Ruth? Y:	Yes, ma’am.

	F:	Over at the mainland. And—oh, man. You know what I’m trying to talk about. Y:	It’s okay what you say; anything you say.

	F:	She and her son, [inaudible 16:52], not made from other from me. I can’t recall his name—I was their neighbors. Come on. And I can’t [inaudible 17:08]—

	Y:	Do you know anything about that camp on Woodpecker Route?





	F:	Who?



	Y:	There was a camp out there, on Woodpecker Route. A camp that they used to run out there. They used to do turpentine—

	F:	Yeah, yep, yep, and other ones, too.



	Y:	Well, what the name of that camp was? F:	Wasn’t Othello, wasn’t it?

	Y:	Yeah, it’s on the— F:	Wasn’t Othello?

	Y:	Yeah. It’s a camp out there. What’s the name of the man, the owner of the camp, though?

	F:	Lord, I sure don’t know! [Laughter]



Y:   It’s still a big house out there. A big house, where the man, the owner out there, he owned a bunch of land out there. But it used to be sort of like a camp, where people come and go to work, and you know, do things. I don’t know the name of it, though. But—

F:  Now, you ain’t talking about hill’s progress, somebody hasn’t never seen the—now they’re called Cracking Corn?

Y:   Yeah. I don’t know nothing about it, that’s what I’m talking about.



	F:	I heard my mom talking about it, and Miss Dutchess, Bessie Adeline, and all of them, talking about that Cracking Corn.

	Y:	Now, Dutchess is another old lady, man. She’s sweet old lady. She live right on the curve road, right out there on 41, man.

	F:	Mmhm.





	Y:	Where you turn in there, that’s where you see the house that’s adjacent from it. Her name was the Dutchess. And Miss Ruby Lee, was another lady about her age, and Miss Dutchess. You remember Ruby Lee?

	F:	Who?



	Y:	Miss Ruby Lee.



	F:	That was her daughter! Y:	[Inaudible 19:00]?

	F:	Ruby Lee was her daughter.



	Y:	Oh, Miss Dutchess’ daughter. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. F:	And don’t tell me no Ruby Lee—

	Y:	Yeah, yeah! I know that! That going down, saying going down. Yeah. Is there anything you want to share with us that—he’s going send you a tape of this, anything you want to share to your family where you, where you got to, when you give them the CD that we talking about right now?

	F:	Say what?



	Y:	Is there anything you want to share with us or your family? We taping this, and we going send you a copy of it. Is anything you want to say at this time?

	F:	Well, I know I told y’all about the [inaudible 19:49], he come here at nine on the special list. I would like to get together, and think on what I want to say. I ain’t just going to jump up and say anything.

	Y:	You are special, now, you know what I’m saying? You are special. The Lord, He intend for this to happen on this day. Because you special. And this will be recorded in history.





	F:	I tell you the best story that I’m familiar.



	Y:	I’m going leave you guys here and talk for a minute, and step outside. F:	Right there—you left the Springhouse.

	M:	Mmhm.



	F:	You would all, because the people would come down here and see that the place my mother built. We had plant seeds, wagons, and [inaudible 20:51].

	M:	So—were the springs segregated, a long time back?



	F:	Hm? Martine, you want to come back. Come on back here! Because I can’t hear. M:	I can try again.

	Y:	All right. What you got? Hold up. Yes, ma’am.



	M:	I was asking if the springs were segregated, or what it was like.



	Y:	He said, was Colored or Black peoples allowed to go and swim in the springs? F:	In the Springhouse?

	Y:	Yes, ma’am. Was Colored allowed in the springhouse at that Jim Crow time?



	F:	I can’t tell you, because my aunt, now, was Miss Mathis’ cook. You know what they do, short one over in that back kitchen? You ever seen that better sell woman come out the kitchen? You know that I’m betting you Black people wasn’t allowed in the springhouse.

	Y:	That true. Well, you can’t hold that against us, because we weren’t allowed there, you know what I’m saying?

	F:	That’s right! And Ms. Allen, she would have to let her in there, because she was her cooker. Her cook. And she, they couldn’t hold it against us [inaudible 22:20].





	Y:	All you wanted to do is slip in! [Laughter] That’s all right, that’s all right. That been happening in history over and over. You just slip in there, you know what I’m saying? When they put us in the kitchen, they messed up! [Laughter]

	F:	Uh-huh! You walk over and follow the door, you’d be better do something else! [Laughter] [Inaudible 22:45] I remember other girl—and my momma know where they was, [inaudible 22:52]. They was older, them two. Had them up there. So Ms. Matthis go on to the Springhouse that morning. And I don’t know who it was, the lady was sitting there, and his momma warned her sons, and then Bill Matthis. Do you know it wasn’t her son?

	Y:	No, well, if I do, it got me about a little bit. You know? [Laughter]



F:  [Inaudible 23:30] She say, “Let me be!” The man, he was—“Where do you think you are?” [Laughter] I said if my aunt had no lock, and I couldn’t get in the back door? I turned around, [inaudible 23:46] and I should’ve [23:48] called Ms.

Matthis—



	Y:	[Inaudible 23:53] [Laughter] You told them, you got the password to ‘em! F:	Yes, sir!

	Y:	When you called that name. Yeah. It’s something else back then, Ms. Fisher.



	F:	And that thing hurt me so bad—you know, if somebody sticks to you in such a way, and being a child, and then knowing no better. And I was trying to get there, because I knowed that I was going get a whipping if I didn’t go and do what she told me to do.

	Y:	Ms. Fisher.





	F:	And I’m sure glad that Ms. Susie’ momma, she was good [inaudible 24:38], I told her to leave it alone. And [inaudible 24:42] she say, “I’m’a say a prayer for that girl!” That’s what she—“I’m’a say a prayer for her!”

	Y:	Ms. Rosa Lee, did—my momma, she didn’t quite go to school until she got older.



She finished school in her later years, but she had to work, you know?



	F:	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.



	Y:	She had her kids, you know? Us kids. But she did finish school, in night school.



But I—was it hard? You know? Was it really like that? Peoples going get an education because they had to work, and then just get [inaudible 25:28].

	F:	They had to work hard all day. Yes. They was living like that, and working them. Because here’s something I’m trying to tell you about: I worked these years up here. The way I am, I didn’t want to make a, you know, mistake. But out to the these years. But honey, you worked from seven o’clock in the morning to seven in evening, for three dollars a week.

	Y:	Yeah. Now that’s crucial. Now, I was talking about seven dollars a week, working between four boys! She talking about three dollars a week!

	F:	That’s all; three dollars a week!



	Y:	Yeah. The times has changed, right? In the [19]60s, man, when she talking about three dollars a week!

	F:	Yeah!



	M:	What kind of work was that? F:	Field work!

	M:	Field work? Where at? What fields? Where were you working?





	F:	Where the farmer field? Now, I can’t say what all field I didn’t go. You know in this town, you seen children sitting on the back of that truck. And you know when y’all boys cutting tobacco.

	Y:	This was a farm area, man. All this area was farmland back in the day. F:	Uh-huh!

	Y:	Even had dairy cows, and all kind of stuff. F:	Uh-huh!

	Y:	It’s—like, this guy out here—



	F:	They had a farm right out there. Right there. Y’all boys [inaudible 27:17]— Y:	Like we say, all this was field and cows—

	F:	Uh-huh, right back over here— Y:	They used to plant corn—

	F:	Uh-huh, all that kind of stuff. Y:	All this back—

	F:	Now, I was taking [inaudible 27:31]. You know down there, I’ve seen how they go way back? People sawed that log beams. Alma [inaudible 27:43] was crazy, when we was talking about the hundred acre field. He said, “Now, that’s the biggest lie! They never told no lies, there ain’t no hundred-acre field down there!”

	Y:	Wasn’t no hundred-acre field. Back then, it probably was, but it’s a lot of land right here, though.

	F:	Yeah!



	Y:	But as, talking from my days—





	F:	Me and Alma went fishing. And when she tell about that, me and Alma got fishes. So, she had called people liars. We got lost. You know where the old bridge at down there?

	Y:	On the Womat Still?



	F:	No, down here, going toward Lake City, down there White Springs. Y’all ain’t seen that little bridge down there?

	Y:	Yeah, the river bridge. F:	Yeah.

	Y:	Used to be a old wooden bridge, long time ago.



	F:	Uh-huh. Well, we used to get on the other side of the bridge, where the railroad. And we’d get to walking, and we’d walk. And there was a White lady and White man in a boat. And he told us, “Hey, y’all going get caught, come here.” The man said it. Come again, the woman, she say, “Get down there, get behind there.”

	Y:	Y’all got in the boat?



	F:	Yeah, we got in the boat! Y:	[Laughter] Oh, Lord!

	F:	We got in the boat. We done walked since [inaudible 29:26]. So, he says, “I don’t know if it will wade in there and tear us up,” and he on the boat. “I’m going turn around and come back. Y’all can go on right on,” and he showed us how to get to the hundred-acre field. I said, “Alma, take it back!”

	Y:	To the—out on the—



	F:	It’s some land back in there!





	Y:	Y’all gone and fished on the hundred acres, eh?



	F:	I don’t know, now. I’m talking about what they said. I didn’t see it. Then Alma’s



going fight me!



	Y:	Y’all going fight! [Laughter] Y’all walked all over the place looking for the hundred acres! The man picked y’all up, went on a boat tour.

	F:	Yeah! We was going find it. You know, we let him take me to the beach, fifty- nine hundred.

	Y:	Yeah. All right.



	F:	Mmhm. Now. You got the hotel, now I’m going to go to the church house. When I was going to church? I went in the morning—I’d go with cousin Florence’ children, because the the children was awfully bad along that [inaudible 30:52] and go all—and Momma didn’t like for them to hit me. And so, she would get cousin Florence’ children, and then go to Beulah Baptist Church.

	Y:	Yeah. Oh, that’s my church! Beulah Baptist. F:	Then, it was St. Luke.

	Y:	Mmhm, St. Luke, that’s my grandma’ church. Yeah, [inaudible 31:14]. My daddy go—

	F:	Anyway, I’d go, Momma took me up there to Mother Johnson. And she would take me to St. Luke. Miss Dinah Bass was my Sunday School teacher.

	Y:	Oh, Miss Dinah! Oh, man! I remember Miss Dinah. Then she married Deacon.



Yeah.



	F:	And then, what Dinah told you, you remembered it, and kept it to you. Dinah put it in your head [inaudible 31:52] Honey, I could tell you something.





	Y:	What do you think of our preacher, Reverend Lonnie? Reverend Lonnie Lucy. F:	Well, I think he’s good. I do. I think her momma’s very good.

	Y:	What about—if you was St. Luke, it was St. Luke preacher. F:	Oh, I can’t call his name now.

	Y:	Yeah, I can’t call it right now. F:	I just can’t call it. Hm.

	Y:	Man!



	F:	But he did a good job, [inaudible 32:30], yeah.



	Y:	He done retired not too long ago. He say God called him to preach, and he preach—

	F:	Well that’s right, he [inaudible 32:40]. These, you know, people don’t be what [inaudible 32:45].

	Y:	Right. Man, I hate to forget the preacher man.



	F:	Yeah. Yep. Your mother’s dad could’ve gone preach, too. When Reverend [inaudible 33:00].

	Y:	My grandma, that’s—that was their church, St. Luke’s. All their sisters used to go there. Aunt Bessie, Aunt Willa, Aunt Frieda, Aunt Margaret. Grandma had some sisters, boy!

	F:	Mmhm! Yeah, I know, I know. She used to go there. And you remember Mrs.



Agnes Williams?



	Y:	No. I remember Ms. Sadie Turner and Scott Turner, them guys. F:	That’s all you remember, do you?

	Y:	Yeah, I remember a little bit.





	F:	You don’t remember [inaudible 33:39]?



	Y:	Knew [inaudible 33:41], Mr. George Jackson. Mr. George Jackson stayed right across the field right there. And he used to grow that sugar cane.

	F:	Who?



	Y:	Sugar cane.



	F:	Yeah.



	Y:	Yeah.



	F:	You know, I [inaudible 34:02] ago. He banked so much on it.



	Y:	Hey, yeah. He bury it, and then during the Halloween, the boys try to get it, hear him shotgun out there, did you hear that? [Laughter]

	F:	And they just about got all that, didn’t they? But nobody still wouldn’t do this. I know if I can’t walk none.

	Y:	You met the daughter of them over there. F:	Is [inaudible 34:26]?

	Y:	She sure over there. I don’t recall the name. His daughter, yeah. F:	Who for? Daddy have is she a boy?

	Y:	She’s a female, a woman. Young lady. F:	I haven’t seen nobody. Now—

	Y:	Eh, you about like me; we don’t get out much, but you know, we try and keep to ourself [34:49].

	F:	I don’t [inaudible 34:50], I saw a little girl. Came from over there, a little girl looking about three or four years old. I mean, six or seven years old. [Y gets up to check some food on the stove.] What’s it, burning? Take it off the—I’ll move





some things. I’ve got the [inaudible 35:12] in the stove now. I saw a little girl come from over there. Looked like she about three, or six or seven years old. Whose child was she, you know? It’s none of my business, but I’d like to know if someone come in this yard, know what about it. Since [inaudible 35:49], and them all them been dead. That boy just died. Of course, that they son or grandson?

	Y:	Miss Rosa, what you enjoy the most these days? What you enjoy the most out of life these days? I know that you—

	F:	What you enjoy?



	Y:	I say, what you enjoy the most in life these days? F:	Well—

	Y:	I know you cook for yourself, you take care of yourself. Ninety-seven years old, you get around better than I do! [Laughter] What do you enjoy the most these days, you know? You know what kind of world we living in, and the times we living in.

	F:	Oh, well, honey, you know what? After you left here, get down on your knees and thank Him.

	Y:	Yes, ma’am.



	F:	Yeah, I didn’t do it. Because He woke me up this morning.



	Y:	Right, Jesus! Always on time! Ninety-seven years he been on time, isn’t it? [Laughter] Oh, Lord!

	M:	Could we ask a little about the Carver School at all?



	Y:	They want to know about the Carver store. You remember Carver, right?





	F:	Mr. Lawrence Carver? Y:	Yeah, Lawrence Carver.

	F:	It was right there where y’all [inaudible 37:17] right there. Y’all seen that— Y:	That’s this. Right where it is and everything.

	F:	Right there. Right same place.



	Y:	You didn’t know much of Carver’ daddy, and any of his people?



	F:	Yes, sir. I knowed the son, the daddy, but I sure knowed his people. Y:	Yeah? What was he like?

	F:	I didn’t know him, now, but now, you asked me to explain— Y:	You knowed them but you—

	F:	—do I seen?



	Y:	Yeah, you seen him, you know what I’m saying? He was a fair man?



	F:	Well, now, shouldn’t tell nothing other than they family was here, but I never seen him. Because they said that it was him, but I can’t witness that it was, because I never did see him.

	Y:	Right. I know I seen Mr. Carver when I was a kid. He used to have a big cat laying up on the food in the store. You ever heard of that? I’m talking about in Carver’s store, he used to have a cat in there.

	F:	Laying up on the, oh, the cat, he loves the food, and then they get it for you. Y:	[Laughter] I remember that, now! Hey—

	F:	Yeah, you said it like it is. Y:	Yeah, yeah.

	F:	I sure know it!





	Y:	Cat running through there, and people still had what they had, though, okay? F:	[Laughter]

	Y:	Grandma would take us down there. I look over there, right? The cat go right, go little—

	F:	Yessir! And you could write checks [inaudible 38:43]. I pushed it one day, and then the nine-to-five-o’clock thing.

	Y:	I don’t know where they at, but he had a cat. They didn’t play, they had a cat. I don’t care what the cat was laying on, it could be the best meat or the best food he had in the store.

	F:	Mmhm! Yessir!



	Y:	That cat was there.



	F:	That’s right! The cat—I tell you one thing: that cat along a lot better than me and you got along.

	Y:	Yeah, that cat was living good! Cat lived good. Yeah. F:	Are you talking about the right the front door?

	Y:	Now, you remember Mr. Dedigot, too, now. F:	Who that?

	Y:	Mr. Dedigot.



	F:	Well now, who didn’t? Take your food, he throw it on the floor.



	Y:	Right. My daddy used to go up there and get gas from there. He’s sitting out there, and, “Boy, you—!”

	F:	And his wife wasn’t much better. Her, what was her name?





	Y:	It’s strict back then. Strict. In fact, they had to pull up there with all them kids in the car, and he’d call them: “Boy, what you doing up here?” [Laughter] That’s real life, though.

	F:	Well now, his daddy—it was the mother of that girl, though. I met her before she died. [Inaudible 40:24] mother?

	Y:	Yes, ma’am.



	F:	The first time I ever seen that [inaudible 40:28]. And Mr. Unita Carver? Unh-uh!



You didn’t bother with that Carver!



	Y:	Lon Carver had a son named Sonny Carver. F:	Yeah!

	Y:	Yeah. And then he had a son—



	F:	The son used to [inaudible 40:50], don’t you remember? [Inaudible 40:53]. And his momma be calling them “poor Black boys”—

	Y:	You might’ve said the word! [Laughter] Oh, boy! You know, people would only go so far with this.

	F:	Yeah, Lord, yeah. Mm. And you know what he saying? It’s [inaudible 41:23]. He want more people to say “Mister” to him. Mmhm.

	Y:	Hey, I don’t care how old you are—you got to say “Mr. Carver.” F:	Mmhm!

	Y:	Yeah, that’s the only thing.



	F:	And you had to get through it before you got something to eat. You be sure that there wasn’t no Whites at the table.





	Y:	See, when Carver used to let people have food on tab, stuff like that, that’s how he was so popular. And, but—that’s what I remember, is Carver and Mr. Didigot here at the gas station. If something [inaudible 42:18]; like I say, the [inaudible 42:20] store that sold the meat, and something she’s talking about, and I think it was on Pearly 99. And that was really something then, man. I was about five, four years old, just getting wind of how life turned out to be. Back then, you had to be an early bird on a lot of stuff, get the system down pat on how to live.

Because like she said, it’s go fishing, fish and grits, and pork and beans. A lot of nights went down with that, for me.

	F:	You remember a man called Raymond Oates? Y:	Yes, ma’am.

	F:	Go down there, pass Dave and them house, and they used to live there? Y:	Yes, right.

	F:	It’s a gate down there. And now, [inaudible 43:16]? Y’all been [inaudible 43:18] ain’t you?

	Y:	Right, right.



	F:	Well, you seen the house sitting over there? Y:	Right.

	F:	That’s the house where all they lived.



	Y:	Yeah. I remember them. Jerry Barnett had a bunch of houses around there, around the corner around there. Jerry Barnett. You remember Jerry Barnett?

	F:	Yeah! Don’t you know I know? [Inaudible 43:41]?





	Y:	All right, then; that’s Dr. Barnett. That’s Jerry’ daddy. He owned all the land around here.

	F:	Well, they say Jerry Barnett is the one owned this one there. Now, I don’t know— Y:	He don’t own it now, but he owned it. It was sold.

	F:	I don’t know who. [Inaudible 43:58]. Y:	I know.

	F:	I don’t know who owns it anymore. And now, then [inaudible 44:06] I knowed anything about it. Earnest Carver, the man’ name. Son is Patton. That’s one of them that there. That’s like all of it. Your kinfolks claim it, that he bought it, and [inaudible 44:24] so I don’t know how he got into it. But then, he claimed the land. Been on claiming the land. But, Filer Jones. And Matthis Cook, was the woman that bought the land. Filer Jones was Queenie’s sister.

	Y:	Oh, it’s in the family, now! [Laughter]



	F:	And Queenie, I’m Queenie’ daughter. Mmhm. [Inaudible 45:01].



	M:	Can we ask about, did they celebrate Emancipation Day, or May Day, when she was growing up, or—?

	Y:	I don’t know if she know what Emanci—you don’t know what Emancipation Day is, do you?

	F:	What?



Y:  Emancipation, they freed the slaves, stuff like that. You don’t know—the word Emancipation, where they freed the slaves, and they said it was a celebration during that day. Like May Day, when we—

F:   Uh-huh, yeah, yeah. Sure enough, sure enough.





	Y:	That’s a celebration for the Emancipation for the freeing the slaves. May Day for us.

	F:	We had another there used to be. Way back before y’all come along.



	Y:	But that’s what we want to know. You know anything about that? But we coming and try to do it now.

	F:	Now, I don’t—now, [inaudible 46:01]. Because I don’t know—I’m going tell you, I don’t know it. That’s right. But now, that must have been what they was celebrating.

	Y:	Yeah, we celebrate that, but did y’all ever do that back in the day? F:	Yeah. Yeah, because—

	Y:	Before now.



	F:	Uh-huh, I—



	Y:	Well, have you—



	F:	You know, go up this back street here, you know which side of the [inaudible 46:27]?

	Y:	Yes, ma’am. Right around the corner.



	F:	All right. Lucille and them—Miss Janie Edwards, I meant to say—Miss Janie Edwards, Miss Howard, cousin Doris, do you know where the San—

	Y:	What about Mr. King? Mr. King Henry?



	F:	That’s what I’m trying to tell you! King Henry, his buddy Lowell, all them. Y:	All them celebrated that—

	F:	Uh-huh.



	Y:	Way far out.





	F:	And they have a big ball game, and all like that. Y:	How did—what did they cook back then?

	F:	What did they cook?



	Y:	What did they cook? And what did they cook it in?



	F:	What did they cook in it? No, they didn’t do like y’all do.



	Y:	What they cook it in back then? What they cook the food in back then?



	F:	Wasn’t the—now, I’ll tell you what I saw: it’d be pots and things like that. And now, the [inaudible 47:35] be. Because nobody don’t know no better, [inaudible 47:41].

	Y:	Yeah. But the thing is—



F:  Bunch of [inaudible 47:44], and they have more sweetener. Honey, I was just a little girl—and you know, see, I can’t think of the woman’ name now. She’d make a dishpan full of, what do you call it?

Y:   Fish?



F:   No. I can’t quite remember. I can’t think of them. I bet you when y’all go, I’ll think of it then. [Laughter]

M:   That’s how it goes sometimes.



	Y:	I remember Miss Dora, my babysitter, she used to fry some fish in a washpot. F:	Who at?

	Y:	A washpot. And she fried some fish.



F:  Oh, yeah! Fish! [Inaudible 48:26]! Yeah. Because Granddad, that’s what he go fishing for. And pull up some fish. They don’t have refrigerator like they do now.

	Y:	Yeah. [Inaudible 48:34] used to have a stove heater. You put the wood in it—





	F:	A wood stove?



	Y:	Yeah! And then you cook the food, the same as you cook it on that there. F:	Mmhm.

	Y:	Yeah. But that’s how much times changed. But— F:	Wood stove.

	Y:	I thought you’d remember that washpot. Man, that—! F:	Who? I don’t remember it.

	Y:	I thought you’d remember [inaudible 49:01].



	F:	No! [Inaudible 49:04]. Boy, I—when my grandson come though, and [inaudible 49:09]—you know, they’ll come and pick it up. Because they want to keep—

	Y:	Yeah, they take ‘em from you!



	F:	Yeah. And they—he and Aunt Emma used to do with those.



	Y:	Yeah. Boy, it was—the one part was, I’ve been to a lot of fish fries. And they’d feed the kids first, you know? And get the kids out the way.

	F:	Yeah, yep, yeah.



	Y:	Then the adults come in. But on a big cookout, they had two washpots going at the same time. Tell me about them fish, man. Everybody eating like [inaudible 49:51]. And—hey, brother?

	M:	What about school? Did she go to school at all? I know she said she was working a lot. But any school?

	Y:	Talk louder, try to—



	M:	Okay. Okay, I’ll try—when did you first go to school? F:	When I first go to school?





	M:	Yeah.



	F:	I was probably, oh, eight. I liked that school. I can’t make them prayers. Y:	Bible school.

	F:	Mmhm. But, the school was down on the highway. The highway was [inaudible 50:32]. And I can’t tell now the school, I can’t get that. But then it was two-story.

	M:	Oh yeah?



	F:	Mmhm.



	M:	Okay. So that’s—so do you remember your teachers there?



	F:	Yeah! I had two of them. Or three. First, Professor Bowlung. And the one was Pauline Anderson?

	Y:	Yes, ma’am.



	F:	And Leonard Bennett. Had three of them. Mmhm. M:	Did you like your teachers?

	F:	No! Well, every time, when it get hard, I’d be all right being alone, but then they’d get hard on me, and then I—ooh, I couldn’t stand them! [Laughter] My—it was like I tell you: when I, before I, when I just come out of school—I mean, when they moved the school. It was before they moved they school. I’d look at them when they was building this school. [Inaudible 51:48]. It wasn’t nothing, when you had to get up, and get in line there, and do work! I’m telling you, I look at children today, I don’t know what to think about them. They said, they get so [inaudible 52:17] can’t—. I did wash dishes each morning, with the, you know. Because my granddaddy, before he, that my aunt take me there. When she was back from Miami. And then, my aunt [inaudible 52:43]. And him her son. I had to make up





the bed. You know? That [inaudible 52:54]. I went cleaned when this thing was fully in boom, we were working there on [inaudible 53:05] Avenue. The Portry family.

	M:	Oh yeah? Yeah, did you—when you were going to school, what about when you came home? What did you have to do?

	F:	Hey! He done gone. Listen that what they say to you. Y:	[Laughter] More work!

	M:	Yeah. [Laughter]



	F:	Went to [inaudible 53:30], by there when I was going to school. But I couldn’t— [inaudible 53:30].

	Y:	Say that again?



	F:	I said when I was going to school, if something they asked me, wants me, I would do it. And I would.

	Y:	Yeah. He asking what you doing after you get out of school.



	F:	Oh. Well, the same thing I tell you: the dishes and things. I washed dishes. And I washed dishes when I was seven years old? I washed them [inaudible 54:04].

	Y:	It was a cycle: work, school; and work, school! F:	Right! Yeah, yeah. [Laughter]

	Y:	It’s the same with us. Had to work, you know? Didn’t have playtime and that and all.

	F:	Oh, yeah! [Inaudible 54:16]. No. I cleaned them out, and I [inaudible 54:24]. Boy, they come in there, with that [inaudible 54:30]. Yeah. I, that, before you could get





home, [inaudible 54:40]. But they’d tell me, ooh! Nothing worse than going there. I can’t stand it! [Laughter] Because [inaudible 54:53]!

	Y:	All right, that [inaudible 54:57]. Yeah. F:	Yes, sir.

	M:	What was your favorite thing to eat growing up? Did you have a favorite food?



	Y:	What kind of favorite food you likeded when you was growing up? Your favorite food?

	F:	Oh, I didn’t have none of that. That was something, I [inaudible 55:17]. Y:	You didn’t have a favorite? A favorite food?

	F:	Mm-mm.



	Y:	No chicken, no— F:	[Inaudible 55:24].

	Y:	No collard greens? Didn’t have no favorite food? F:	Oh, yeah, now. Oh, you mean what I loved!

	Y:	Yeah, what you loved. F:	Oh, yeah.

	Y:	What you love of—



	F:	Now, collard greens, honey! You could cook them in pot and got collard greens. I mean, you could have them that night! Oh, I loveded them!

	Y:	Man, collard greens!



	F:	This little kid come on by, got collard greens. I had his name!





	Y:	You can cook now, there! I know still down on that! I told you about her—a great cook, too, all over. They got some chicken in there now, and some steak, and other things she done cook.

	M:	Oh, man!



	Y:	Yeah. A little chef. She a little chef over here by herself. Yeah. Yeah, them collard greens.

	F:	Yeah, I [inaudible 56:19]. I was [inaudible 56:22], but—



	Y:	Kenny Hut will see [inaudible 56:31] out of this, something for you got— F:	Who that?

	Y:	Kenny Hutchinson. He a city manager. And I’ll see if I can get in touch with him, and see if he can do anything for you. On up in there.

[Interchange about MY seeing if RM’s phone charger will work for his phone.]



	F:	No, I look at that what he’s doing. I ain’t got yet [inaudible 57:16] granddaughter. I ain’t never seen her. When she was down there last week—yeah, last week I think it was—she was going send me the Facebook. Uh-huh. I told her to send it on, because—by all means, I don’t bother with them [inaudible 57:40]. I ain’t never seen her. Neither when seen I raised up and—I ain’t never. I got me so [inaudible 57:47]. Still light it, but older folk—it wasn’t but one phone, though.

That was Matthews’, now, if she want to share. Now, if she couldn’t, she would take the call if it was from the vice president. Ms. Matthews wouldn’t see to that call at all. She seemed [inaudible 58:16], you know. Yep. Uh-huh.

Y:   You ever swim? Back in the days, you go swimming?





	F:	Hey, Lord help me [inaudible 58:35]. She could tell you about that. See, now, we called that the puttin’—

	Y:	Yeah, that’s one of the rivers to swim in. Yeah. Suwannee River, it’s black water, everybody’s scared to swim in it because the gators, but I like to swim in it from time to time. Suwannee River? You ever swim in the Suwannee River?

	F:	No, God!



	Y:	That Jerry Barnett got a pond out there, you ain’t never swim in Jerry Barnett’



pond?



	F:	I ain’t never been to Jerry Barnett’ pond. And the [inaudible 59:09] you said you can’t go over—not, in—

	Y:	Right in, about two miles in front of your house, there’s a pond right there in the middle of the field. And it’s fish back there, too.

	F:	I know it is! I was just saying we were invited in that. In that pool, there’s [inaudible 59:29].

	Y:	Right. I’m’a say something, then: I’m a young man compared to you, but don’t you remember them cows?

	F:	Oh, no, nah, unh-uh! I forgot about the cows, now.



	Y:	What them cows used to do a lot? What they used to do a lot? Them cows used to moo a lot then, didn’t they?

	F:	Oh, Lord! Well, you know—



	Y:	Every time the cows go to mooing, somebody die. F:	They sure do!

	Y:	Somebody die.





	F:	You can watch it then.



	Y:	They’ll say they’ll moo about a week; a couple days, somebody die. F:	That’s right!

	Y:	They’ll go back to mooing again: somebody else die.



	F:	That’s right! Mmhm. And that’s true! That’s a true sign. I don’t know what it is, but it’s a true sign.

	Y:	And her old man—you remember Mr. Tom Willis, don’t you? F:	Who?

	Y:	Mr. Tom Willis. [Continues repeating name] F:	I still don’t think I know him.

	Y:	All right. You remember Miss Annie, don’t you? F:	Annie—?

	Y:	Ms. Annie Brown. F:	Yeah. But no—

	Y:	Tom Willis lived right across from Ms. Annie. F:	Bill enough, I just ain’t thinking of it.

Y:  All right. Well, Tom Willis, I remember one time the cows mooing so bad, Tom Willis say, “Some of these people been dying. Now, some of these cows got to die!” [Laughter]

F:  Well, you know, it look strange. But right across right that there, [inaudible 1:01:09]—

Y:   Yeah, that’s the pasture, right there up there. The cows used to be right there. F:   Uh-huh. Yeah, well, that’s—you heard Mr., out here, these children, Lord, no!





	Y:	Cows used to be all in across from there.



	F:	I hear these children going off to the store, but Ms. Box. You have some, me and momma listens, their momma say, “Mary Jane, and—” whatever his name, I forgotten Mr. Box’ name.

	Y:	I’m’a ask you about a lady ahead of my time. What do you think about Ms. Ida Moore?

	F:	Don’t know—again, while I’m on my way, let’s go—



	Y:	We’ll go somewhere else, then! [Laughter] That was a good one. F:	Well, I’ll be on my way. Let’s go on.

	Y:	Ida Moore! [Laughter] All right.



	F:	Momma used to take that [inaudible 1:02:09], that down there, and go down there, and she—Momma and all them maids. Milkmaid, she called. And go down there, he had three White, three Black. And her and them—they were some cows, they had some milk! I’m telling, [inaudible 1:02:29]. And the [inaudible 1:02:33] look like [inaudible 1:02:35]. It was no cows, I don’t—I didn’t have no—

	Y:	I remember the time they used to have peoples come through here, dealing out they cars, selling blankets and clothing and stuff.

	F:	Don’t have that there, now. None of it.



	Y:	What do you think about this man called Mr. Brock?



	F:	Yes sir. You know, I heard, though, he’s dead. Well, I likeded Mr. Brock. You know he had his money like this. He says, “I’m going to pay for this,” whatever it is, they had to pay something. So pay for this. “But you have my money, I’ll call and come back.” And you better have his money when he come back!





	Y:	He’d come down here in all these Black neighborhoods, and sometime he gets the people stuff on time. But he come back and ask for his money, he ain’t going to ask for it two or three times. One time, you better have his money like you say. Man, he sold—Momma used to buy shoes from him. And she sold blankets and all kinds of stuff.

	F:	Oh, Laura did it.



	Y:	Yeah.



	F:	I got back in the other day, I was talking about that, just made me think about it.



	That’s where our blanket come from. When we had blanket come from— Y:	This back in the [19]60s. Like, around [19]65 or something like that.

	F:	Around then, they have goose down. Y:	Yeah!

	F:	Better than you buy in the stores around here.



	Y:	Can’t buy it no more. They knitted or handed it and sewed it better than, they put it together better anyway.

	F:	Mmhm!



	Y:	I had a pair of shoes Momma bought from Mr. Brock; I didn’t like the shoes. And my neighbor bought her son a pair, and we did everything we could to tear them shoes up. And them shoes outlasted us! [Laughter] They really tough, them shoes.

	F:	Shoes, you wear them out, you wear ‘em out. You keep them old shoes. Y:	Yes, ma’am.





	F:	They last you a long time. Momma bought two pair of shoes. She’d buy one Sunday pair, and then one everyday pair. And come from Sunday school, you took them shoes off, wash [inaudible 1:04:58], and put them up.

	Y:	Got out them Sunday shoes right quick! [Laughter] That’s the reason she did that. Yeah.

	F:	All right? And then, Sunday style mean they put the, add them [inaudible 1:05:13], you put on them old—

	Y:	[inaudible 1:05:16]?



	F:	And then, [inaudible 1:05:18] you call them lowride. [Laughter] Low ride! Yeah.



That’s what—



	Y:	Okay, when you wore the shoes down, ain’t much left.



	F:	We called them shoes “lowride.” But honey, them was some good shoes! And she got another pair, and they doing all right. Well, time there [inaudible 1:05:42].

	Y:	Yes ma’am.



	F:	And you go in there, I had to look through there the other day, and they cleaned [inaudible 1:05:51] up there. Yeah.

	Y:	You remember back in the days, when it used to be the big, square block of ice?



Ice. Ice.



	F:	Mr. R.J. Lee’ daddy was ice man, wasn’t it? Y:	Yeah. They deliver big old square block.

	F:	The square piece. Y:	Yeah!





	F:	Because that’s your, momma used to take that, and— Y:	You chip ‘em down, and—

	F:	—put it in a—



	Y:	—and make your ice cream.



	F:	—in a old box. A big old box. Mrs. Walls, the first day she saw it was the moss, she had to go out there and gather up people and have them [inaudible 1:06:35]. She got all that moss, put it down the bottom of that box. Then she put [inaudible 1:06:45] over there.

	Y:	You keep that—



	F:	She had some kind of rag that she put over that. Y:	Right. She putting on top of—

	F:	Like I said.



	Y:	Yeah. And keep the ice from melting so fast.



	F:	Uh-huh! And you know one thing: she didn’t let you in there, she say, “Now go in there and gets you a piece of ice!” She steal a piece off of there. When you get through, wrap it back up like it was. And you know, at that—I think it’s a Friday, Saturday, when it was he come around? Friday or Saturday, that ice man?

	Y:	Yes, ma’am.



	F:	I said what day it’s on?



	Y:	Probably on a Friday. Then you have some for the weekend.



	F:	Right. Then it have to be right there. And she kept her food, oh, Momma kept all her food down there. Great big old—. You know Momma wouldn’t tell what all was in there?





	Y:	Yeah, that was tin tub, that probably. F:	Momma had three of them.

	Y:	The three-gallon tub. Yeah, we used to bathe in it. Something I remember. Just get them, and go to a pump, pump them up with water, and bathe, and sometime if you ain’t careful, sometime somebody’ll jump in the tub right after you get out and don’t want to change the water. Just bathe again. You know? That’s a way of life back then.

	F:	You’re right there. Where you are, you [inaudible 1:08:18]? Y:	Yes ma’am.

	F:	There’s a well right there. You know that woman used to stay over by there, “Get out of there!”

	Y:	I remember there when we, we used to—



	F:	That was [inaudible 1:08:33]. But you know, [inaudible 1:08:34], his momma and his sister and him went down there. Momma say she scared, because when we was kids. And [inaudible 1:08:45] that is, she let him dig one. He didn’t know what to do. He suffered. Or I’ll tell him me now, that child down there—Lord, I hate that well! And we didn’t have to buy no ice. That was the coldest, clear—

	Y:	Aunt Bessie had a well, she used to keep her catfish on the bottom of her well. F:	Who that?

	Y:	Bessie. Bessie—Bessie Newsome. F:	Oh.

	Y:	You know, one of Grandma’s sisters. F:	Who?





	Y:	Bessie.



	F:	Yeah.



	Y:	Grandma Cleo Newsome? F:	Uh-huh.

	Y:	Her sister Bessie. F:	Oh.

	Y:	Used to keep her catfish in the bottom of her well. F:	Well, granddad had one.

	Y:	She said it keep the well clean. Yep. F:	Try to [inaudible 1:09:37] out of them.

	Y:	Right. Right. Well, I remember as kids coming up, we used to wash our clothes, we had three tubs of water. One was for rinsing, one for washing. We had the scrub board.

	F:	Yeah! Then you have to—right, that’s what—



	Y:	And on, them, one for the white clothes to put them in.



	F:	You scrub the clothes, then she was [inaudible 1:10:03] that hotel, the— Y:	You have to wear your knuckles out to make sure your clothes get clean.

[Inaudible 1:10:11] dirty, you give them, Momma over here is scrub all her own clothes, now, because we wore them.

	F:	And you got to take them up out the wash pot, and then she— Y:	Oh yeah, washing machine.

	F:	[Inaudible 1:10:21] washpot? You put it in the tub, and— Y:	Yeah, and take a stick. Take a stick and stir it.





	F:	Mmhm.



	Y:	And wash ‘em up. Now, they used to do it with lye soap, too. There’s some soap in there, lye. I got two bars of lye soap now that [inaudible 1:10:41].

	F:	Yeah, I got to make some lye soap. I ain’t made none in a long time. Y:	You think you could still—

	F:	But I can make it.



	Y:	Can you remember the recipe to it? F:	Oh, yeah!

	Y:	I know you used to [inaudible 1:10:51], now. Make some lye soap.



	F:	I would set it in an old [1:10:57 inaudible] down there, the whole house. Then I go up there—

	Y:	It’s Smith’s because in the country, they make it now. Smith’s. You know what the Smith’s in the country?

	F:	Yeah.



	Y:	Yeah. You know about the Smith, don’t you? The Smith’s. F:	Which one the Smiths?

	Y:	Oh, I don’t know, the Smith name—I know you got Queen Dorie Smith that I went to school with, and you got her momma. And he used to have—Mr. Smith had a farm out there, with pigs and all kind of stuff on it. His boys’ve got it now. And one called Andrew Smith own, it got the club right there that the state uses for the kids for the center. You know right ‘round the corner where them kids go to play at?

	F:	Yeah, ‘round in there, over there [1:11:52 inaudible].





	Y:	Yeah, right there on the corner from you, they got that little center for the kids. F:	What?

	Y:	Yeah. They come down after school, afterschool program. Yeah. F:	I’m right here—I’m right here and don’t know it!

	Y:	That’s all right! You’re like me; you don’t get around much.



	F:	No, I can’t! Unh-uh. I don’t get around none; the biggest I do is right in this house. Y:	Yes, ma’am. Well, that’s all right.

	F:	And [inaudible 1:12:21] car. That’s all right, just how much [inaudible 1:12:25] whatever the thing was, they can tell you.

	Y:	Excuse me: if you have something that you want to say to us guys here, to inspire us to go on and don’t worry about nothing, me and him, what would you tell me and him?

	F:	Well, what you mean? What you talking about? What this man mean about?



	Y:	Well, I’m saying, if you had something to tell us, as far as for us to do better, or— F:	Only what I can.

	Y:	What would you tell us for us to do better, and be better? For us to do and be better, what you tell us?

	F:	I say before, I’d make God to you. Y:	That went right there.

	M:	I can respect that.



	Y:	Yeah, I respect that, too. I respect everything about that.





	M:	Can I ask you one thing—when you were growing up, and you got sick, did people get herbs and things? Did they have herbal remedies when you were growing up?

	Y:	When you was growing up, and peoples got sick, what kind of remedies that you used on sickness back in them days?

	F:	Well, you talking about it, it’s different kind of remedies they used. Different kind. Y:	Let’s say we had a stomach ache.

	F:	Mmhm. Well, my momma [inaudible 1:14:12]. And peoples now think soil is dangerous.

	Y:	Yeah, that sound good.



	F:	Mmhm. My momma go out there and take up some seeds along. Take—she didn’t take much, though, but she take about that much of the—and she [inaudible 1:14:31].

	Y:	[Inaudible 1:14:30], and my momma, what they did was castor oil for us. Castor oil?

	F:	Uh-huh.



	Y:	Yeah.



	F:	Well, now, see, Momma didn’t use castor oil, only once. Mmhm. She would give me a good dose of castor oil, when I first started to school. [Inaudible 1:14:59] school, and I was [inaudible 1:15:03]. But I say, “Is this going to take very long?” She give me another dose. Momma give me three doses of castor oil! Oh!

	Y:	Yeah, that’s rough, taking that stuff, man! [Laughter] F:	Uh-huh!





	Y:	That castor oil is—you ever had some? M:	I think I did once.

	Y:	Man, that is rough stuff to get down! F:	Uh-huh!

	Y:	It’s hard to get it down. F:	Uh-huh!

	Y:	But it worked.



	F:	Uh-huh. But then, [inaudible 1:15:29] do any good; when you got through with it, the working, you was good. Afterward. But she don’t give children none of that. Unh-uh!

	Y:	Oh, they turn they head up and—



	F:	But you know, Dr. Smitty’s a good doctor. He says—I had to go see the doctor. Y:	Well, you about like a doctor, yourself! [Laughter]

	F:	He’s real good, I like that doctor I got now, you know? But some of them [inaudible 1:16:14]. I had one, that mean, that old man. He [inaudible 1:16:18]. He done got so old and then—

	Y:	I want to tell you what happened to me: as a young guy growing up, I got—I was about twelve years old. And I got my feet cut real bad, right here on this ankle.

And Ms. Annie Williams—you know Ms. Annie Williams, right?



	F:	Who?



	Y:	Annie Williams.



	F:	Ooh, yeah!





	Y:	All right? Well, Momma took me over to Ms. Annie’ house, and from Ms. Annie’s, she—

	F:	You mix it up, huh? Uh-huh.



	Y:	And she put me up under the spigot, and she ran water on my feet. And she put a key around my neck. And she read the Bible, and my feet stop bleeding.

	F:	Uh-huh!



	Y:	She did that. My feet stop bleeding. She just read the Bible, and then wrapped it up. And that was it. Yeah. Something was in that Bible, you know? She stopped my feet from bleeding—well, bleeding so worse. And she [inaudible 1:17:35], even at her age. It’s insane, you know? Peoples don’t—can’t express, because they end up no way of expressings. But a miracle to me. That was a miracle to me. And I don’t know how she stopped my feet from bleeding to this day, man. Almost hit my artery.

	M:	Did she do that a lot to people? Was that something people came to her for a lot? Y:	Peoples in need—if I was in need, I’d come to her. That [inaudible 1:18:17]

mother of the neighborhood.



	F:	Oh, yeah. They don’t do it like they do it [inaudible 1:18:23]. You been out here, child, these long days. Mm-mm. I wouldn’t hit one for nothing. Because otherwise, [inaudible 1:18:33].

	Y:	Hey—I lived with my momma and Ms. Mamie Brown. She cooked, I go over to her house and I would eat. [Laughter] My momma, “Why you—” My momma beat me up for that! Just sitting on under. She cooked a plate and sent it to the house for me.





	F:	Mmhm!



	Y:	You know what I’m saying? That’s how it was, back in the day, man. Boy, it was different, man.

	F:	Momma just [inaudible 1:19:00]. My momma, [inaudible 1:19:03].



	Y:	All of her neighbors, like, her sister, them ladies I’m talking about? Like, Ms.



Gussie, Ms. Buie; all them kind of like sisters. You know what I’m saying? Y’all got a lot of [inaudible 1:19:20]. If she go fishing, she’ll come, three or four walk in, and take us with her. You know? But she—she been [1:19:31 inaudible] back in the days. I spent a lot of time over here raking yards for a quarter—for a quarter! [Laughter]

	F:	Now, these children don’t want to rake it. Y:	Yes, ma’am.

	F:	A little boy, the thing got me so bad that I had to cry over it. Now, this child got [inaudible 1:19:52], and went and told his parents a big tale on me. And they believed it, too! I have a [inaudible 1:20:01].

	Y:	[Laughter] And he went and told them on you. F:	Uh-huh, he went and told—

	Y:	Made a big thing out of it.



	F:	No, he showed us—no, he showed, no—he done told lie that he had hauled big



satchels. Two or three, he didn’t know what he saying.



	Y:	A half [inaudible 1:20:27].



	F:	Uh-huh! And they believed it. And stayed mad at me a long time! They didn’t—he won’t do nothing now for me. He wanted five dollars!





	Y:	Yes, ma’am. Well, you paid him about right. No mind. [Laughter] That’s all right.



He’ll get over it later in life.



	F:	And then, when something changes, [inaudible 1:20:55]. They think this morning that they done done something that [inaudible 1:20:59]. That we sending people on, but we are alone. The old folks is alone. That’s what’s so terrible. It’s never gets—some old folks straightened out, they can straighten the children out.

	Y:	Ma’am, what would—if you can remember, what was one of the worst storms White Springs had you can remember?

	F:	That’s what I wondered, now. I’m sad to say anymore, but I can’t find the name of that storm.

	Y:	All right. I’m’a tell you one of them. One of them name was Dora. F:	George.

	Y:	Dora.



	F:	Dora.



Y:  Hurricane Dora. Yeah. F:  But [inaudible 1:21:45]. Y:  Say it again?

F:   [Inaudible 1:21:50].



Y:   I think one was—it didn’t pick up, but it was a bunch of them come through.



Andrew came through here and tore south Florida up.



F:   Yeah.



Y:   But I remember Dora.



F:   Dora was something else, wasn’t she?





	Y:	Yeah. Knocked out the water running, knocked out the railroad system. And man, water was all at my grandma’ house. We had the boat come up—

	F:	Oh, they—you remember how Momma’ house was up off the ground, you know where that was?

	Y:	Right.



F:   Water came up to my mom’s bed. “Y’all be careful: I know that water will flash up in the house”—you know how it goes.

Y:   Hey, Suwannee River was something else. But man, I was a little boy back then. I couldn’t have been more than four years old, five, man. I remember Daddy had to pick me up and put me on the back, because the water was so bad.

M:   Did the river flood a lot?



	Y:	Well, as long as—it depend on what season, or how much rain we get, you know? One year, it flooded back in [19]90-something; I had to call—I was living in Lake City at that point—I had to call the game wardens to come and get me. The game warden rescuing everybody else, and they didn’t have time to get me. So I called my cousin Herman to get me. That water had me surrounded. I was like my old house was on a island. Man, I could take you right now and show you where my house is—or was, you know. The Suwannee River would get five miles out the banks, and surround somebody. Now, that’s water. My uncle going tell you, that’s where he was raised, out there on the creek. And every time the river rise, the creek would rise, so they had a lot of flooding in that area out there. I think it was somebody, they’ll tell you about that.





	M:	We’ve been going a pretty good while—do you have more questions? Or, I think I’ve run through most of the ones I have right now. I can try to come up with some more.

	Y:	You got about everything you want. I just—you know. M:	Oh, yeah, that’s—

	Y:	Ms. Rosa Lee, Ms. Fisher, he’s getting ready to wrap it up. But he’s going send you a copy of this. Is there anything you want to add to this tape of what we all just talked about? It’s going be yours. This is yours here. Peoples going—

	F:	Putting in the papers?



	Y:	He going send you a little CD, like this right here? You’ll be able to play it on that, and listen to what we talked about today. It’s right there. You going be able to listen to that—within the next month, probably; who knows? But if there’s anything you want to say about anything—

	F:	Well, I tell you what: I visit you. Do [inaudible 1:25:21]. My mind [inaudible 1:25:23].

	Y:	Yes, ma’am.



	F:	I’m too old, I can’t think like I used to. I used to—he know, before I got the— Y:	We still love your mind the way it is.

	F:	Oh, Lord!



	Y:	Yeah, the way it is.



	F:	That much you know—you know sometimes my mind [inaudible 1:25:47]. I can’t even tell you, some things I forget.





	Y:	I understand that. Well, I want to live to understand that! [Laughter] That’s what I want to do. I want to be alive some day and think about what you telling me, and say, “I’m going tell somebody else about that.” Yeah, I understand what you saying, though.

	F:	Uh-huh.



	Y:	But we appreciate your time. F:	Well, I appreciate y’all coming.

	Y:	And I just love to be in your company and presence, and the idea of the fact that you got to say something on history.

	F:	That’s right, that’s right.



	Y:	Because you ninety-seven years old.



	F:	[Inaudible 1:26:27] post office, I mean at the depot, it’s [inaudible 1:26:33] down there, [inaudible 1:26:37]. Now honey, Ms. Annie Dean used to have the biggest old hogs down there. The wild hogs.

	Y:	Not—you talking about Louie Infield? F:	Huh?

	Y:	Is it Louie Infield? Louie Infield.



	F:	I’m going to—



	Y:	I know it’s in Heavenfield, now. And the—



	F:	Well, you have to [1:26:58 inaudible], down near the post office. Boy, I’d be showing that, and Momma called it, Ms. Ed McPherson call—“Get you a load of lemons, now.” She has his hog caller. That thing Momma [inaudible 1:27:16]





that she let Momma how to cook in them. Momma say that’s how they know how to cook. Hog chitlins.

	Y:	Hog chitlins—know about that? [Laughter] Hey, don’t everybody don’t cook hog chitlins! Cook a pot of hog chitlins, you know that!

	F:	That’s right.



	Y:	You got to clean them things out good!



	F:	Uh-huh. You got to do it right, you got to know what you doing when you do something like that.

	Y:	Boy, they eat good, though! F:	It’s true.

	Y:	They do eat good.



	F:	I have chitlins [inaudible 1:27:46]. Yeah. The hog—the store, and say I went in. Y:	Your son used to raise hogs. Your son. Carl used to raise hogs.

	F:	Hog, yeah.



	Y:	And my grandma. I remember, they’d go down and kill a big sow, and man, everything on the hog, they ate. The pig feet, the brains—

	F:	That’s what my granddaddy say!



	Y:	—the hog chitlin’, the pig skin—they call that “pig skin,” pig feet. They grinded some of the meat up, make sausage. Don’t nothing go to waste on a hog!

	F:	That’s what Momma say. And Momma said—Grandmomma said—my granddaddy, he was White. He was White. Dinah White. My grandmother’ name was Dinah White. She full-blooded Indian.

	Y:	Got a little redbone in you, now! [Laughter]





	F:	Yeah. Grandpa [inaudible 1:29:02].



	Y:	Yes, ma’am. I won’t say nothing about it either. You know it’s something funny about that [inaudible 1:29:10]! [Laughter] Oh, boy.

	F:	Yeah, they say my grandmomma was full-blooded Indian. They say she had a big old—I don’t know what color they called, but they had big old red-looking people. They say her hair [inaudible 1:29:32]. Know about [inaudible 1:29:42]?

	Y:	Who? What it was? What you say, now?



	F:	I say, do you remember [inaudible 1:29:51]? Your grandmomma!



	Y:	Okay, okay. You know I can’t go far back as you! [Laughter] I don’t know the half of it. I can’t go far back as that.

	F:	Well, she just died here about four months ago. Y:	Yes, ma’am.

	F:	What she down at—Tampa. Mmhm.



	M:	Well—I guess this is a good place to close, unless you’ve got some more things on your mind?

	Y:	No, I don’t have no—I will do this, though: grab her hand, grab mine. F:	Wait, now—

	Y:	That’s all right, don’t worry about that. That’s just that wind. Lord, I want to thank you for giving us this moment to share this time with this beautiful lady, and thank this young man for giving us this opportunity to just be able to be in the mix. In the name of Jesus, may everything go according to plan. Amen.

	F:	All right, thank you! Y:	Thank you!





	M:	Thank you. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Ryan Morini, December 17, 2015 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, July 25, 2018

	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 25, 2019