AAHP 226B; Blount; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 226B Kali Blount Interviewed by Anna Spiller on March 29, 2019

36 Pages



Abstract:

Keywords: [African American History; Healthcare Workers; Nursing]



AAHP 226B

Interviewee: Kali Blount Interviewer: Anna Spiller Date: March 29, 2019





S:  Okay This is Anna Spiller and today is March 29th, 2019. I’m sitting here with Kali Blount at the Downtown Library in Gainesville. And thank you so much for joining me today.

B:   You’re very welcome. It’s my pleasure.



S:   Alright so can we just start off with stating your full name and spelling it please? B:  Kali, K-A-L-I. Blount. B-L-O-U-N-T.

	S:	Alright and when and where were you born?



	B:	I was born October sixth, 1956 in Detroit Michigan at Burton Mercy Hospital. On the fourth floor… no I’m kidding.

[Laughter]



	S:	That would be impressive. So you grew up in Detroit then. Did you stay there? B:	Yes, yeah. I was in Detroit from [19]56 till [19]82. Well I was in Michigan those years. Three of them were in Ann Arbor. For the beginning of college. But then

right back to Detroit. Like glue.



	S:	Okay. My mom grew up in Detroit around Eight Mile. B:	Oh does she know Eminem?

	S:	I don’t think so. So did you have any siblings or do you have any siblings? B:	I’m so glad you didn’t say that it’s obvious that I’m the only child. It usually is.

There would have been a sibling who I never found out the details of it. That child was I think a miscarriage, I think. But mom’s gone now. Both parents gone. So that’s all I know. No gender or what happened just there almost was a sibling.

	S:	Okay. What did your parents do for a living?







[Phone rings]



	B:	Oh I’m sorry. That’s not what they did. My father’s not Quasimodo. My father was real estate broker through most of my living memory. But my mother retired from the work world around 1963 after returning home from a long serious illness. But before that she had been a social worker. And she worked, specifically the one I remember the most, was an urban renewal program in Detroit. She was, you know, a midlevel bureaucrat, a paper pusher with that program, until she quit in disgust and called it the Negro removal program. Then she was ill for a long time. Which was a big turnaround point in my life for several reasons. Then she became more or less an at-home housewife after that because when she came out of the hospital daddy brought her to a new house. So which was nice for a while. [Laughter] my father as a real estate broker, he was a hustler. He was not a business organizer so he was hounded by IRS from his first day of business til the day he died. But he could move houses. So consequently he provided for us fantastically, materially well. As far as being able to establish a big legacy or just have a growing business in other ways just cause the disorganization. But I noticed most about his business, when he started having me help with stuff in the office for closings, was that, “Hey, there’s famous people coming here.”

	S:	Really?



	B:	He sold to a lot of Motown people. So that’s about all that got my attention the business back then.

	S:	That’s really interesting. So your mother, was it uncommon for her to be a woman of color having this job in local government or social work?







	B:	She was part of a sort of wave phenomenon. There’s so many things going on in the Black community and above and onto the Black community. She had graduated college. She went to Spelman College. Graduated in [19]51 and came to Detroit to join her two sisters. Now, she spoke about it somewhat painfully in later years but she told me how in her early years she was extremely reactive to anybody questioning her Blackness. And she was extremely fair skinned. I mean she was like Lena Horne. And she could have passed in her early life. Any suggestions that she would have ever considered it was enough to get her extremely upset. One of the few things that would upset her. But she did experience some privilege. Because there’s privilege in the community. It was much stronger then. You know she was born in [19]28. So we have a complexion caste system in the Black community and there’s a racial caste system America has. So when you get through all the layers of weeding people out, the darkest man is the first chopped off by America. But, so the ones who get through, light skinned women are gonna lead the way, I’ll say. They’re struggling too. They’re experiencing racism too but there’s these gradations of racism as gradations of skin. It’s another strange pathology inside of racism, that people who have racism opposed upon them adopt the same values. Greater White society says Black is negative. So the oppressed society wants to have everything the greater society has, tries to do it. Do things the same, or imitate. So we have Black Greek organizations, when the Greeks begged to get to the Nile valley to learn.

It’s like the root begging be the leaf. It’s just a lack of history of depth. And







poverty living can happen to do that. Just as a person in crisis over a long term tends to become hedonistic and helpless, a community can do the same.

	S:	Wow yeah. So switching gears a little bit, did you grow up going to church?



	B:	Yes. I went to Carter Metropolitan CME Church in Detroit. My mother took me to that church and took me and took me. . . until I, I think I was about fourteen, when I felt bold enough to say, “I ain’t goin’. Well hit me then. I’m not going.” But up until then. And church was quite an adventure. Some of my outstanding memories of church was getting in trouble and getting smacked on the head for laughing out loud one time. Cause I frequently fell asleep in church, especially six, seven, eight years old. One thing that would keep me awake would be the performing of the minister. You know, some Black pastors are very emotive and shout and jump around and all kinds of gyrations and dancing. And one time the minister reared back and the pulpit was set—there would two pulpits on either corner of the front area, so they were right at the corner. And he reared back and cracked his head on the corner and I just fell out laughing. And I got smacked for that. My other outstanding memory of church was about seventeen and I was starting to get into African history. And I went into my mother’s church. And they already objected that I was wearing this little tight-knit kufi and it was really just to hold down my hair because I had very short dreads at the time. So in the same service where I stood up and pointed out that Jesus Christ was Black, which I thought everybody would be overjoyed about. Somebody challenged me for that hat and so I pulled off the hat and shook my hair. It kind of fell away for that. But the people kind of fell away when I announced that Jesus was Black. You know







the matrons, they wear all white and rush around with tissues and help the people when people get the spirit and faint, they help them up. They had to go to some people with that announcement. It showed how change is traumatic for people even if it’s change that you think ought to be taken as a positive, it’s still change.

	S:	Wow that must have shaken their religious belief or something.



	B:	Well they had grown up with a picture on their wall at home of Jesus Christ as blonde and blue-eyed, stemming of Michelangelo’s commission from the Pope to paint the holy family. And he, a portrait artist, used his cousin’s family. The cousin, wife and their baby boy. So obviously, you know, that picture is Italian.

But growing up with that in Black communities it was learned in subtle ways. In nursing school we talked about learned helplessness that an oppressed group just takes on a way of contenting themselves to their condition. It seems impossible to change and dangerous to try. So, what’s the best you can do with this? What’s the best fun and the best survival you can have with what’s going on? Well let me go back to your original question. I’m going way off the chains, I didn’t even mean to be. . .

	S:	No! This is awesome. Well I was just going to ask was the church an important part of your growing up?

	B:	In fits and starts. There were points in my childhood where I was staunchly believing in Jesus Christ and there were other points where I was doubting and wondering. I remember one of those time when I was really holding onto it tight, even telling my father, “Daddy, you’ve gotta come to church with us, your soul is







going to go to hell.” And my father was like, “Oh boy, go on.” But I also attended a Lutheran school. In kindergarten, first and second grade it was an inner city Lutheran school. And my parents had a home, a two family flat. They rented the upper one near downtown Detroit. The year my mother was ill, my father found the other house, moved in to it and got it ready to bring her home to. I was living with some godparents that year. He was building his business and setting up that home. With me, with other caretakers, except him driving me to school and back. So. . . I lost my point again. Oh, about the church. So I had these multiple church influences, the Lutheran church and it being a Black Lutheran church downtown, near downtown, right near Central city, and then after we moved to the new house, I moved to Greenfield Peace Lutheran School, which was near Eight Mile and telegraph. And Detroit Police were required to live inside city limits so some of those racist cops that we were worried about, who rode in teams called “the big four.” But they would ride the community and just jump out and beat the crap out of people on the spot, just spontaneously. These officers would congregate along the borders. Along Telegraph Road, along Eight Mile Road and this school was near the intersection of those. So a lot of the children of those officers were in school with me. So that influenced my idea of religion because this religious school I was going to was showing me a lot of models of racism. Like a little White boy, who on my first day arrival in third grade, and I’m the second Black child in the whole school. One other one’s in the eighth grade. He gets in my face and pardon me for being too [inaudible 12:49] but going, “Boy, hey boy, hey boy, boy!” And I thought he was retarded. I was eight years old, I was a boy. So you







know, what the hell! So an older cousin explained to me that, “No he’s a child of Detroit cops, who call adult men ‘boy’ and put their hand in their face to intimidate or prelude to something worse.” So he’s had models, he’s imitating models, he’s learning. We all talk about racism will die out. Oh no they’re teaching their children. So I was with the children and in a perverse way it was good for my education because none of them wanted to play with me. At recess, I was in the classroom reading encyclopedias and National Geographic’s and absorbing, absorbing, absorbing. I left that school with a fantastic education that they bore no credit for. Except pushing me into reference materials. Oh and gained tremendous weight in the meantime. But it was dual life for me because it was an almost all-Black neighborhood. The last White family for blocks around was right next door to us. And an almost all-White school environment and oppressively so. That tainted my perception of religion. I would ask the pastor at that school, there was a church and school across Greenfield road from each other, and the pastor serviced the school as well. I would ask him about these little incidences. I never told my parents these, but I would ask the pastor about these incidents and he had always just said, “Well it’s a mystery.” You know, he would always keep quoting that. I’m an INTJ, I don’t tolerate mystery. Everything comes from something.

	S:	Yeah that’s not productive.



	B:	But I didn’t know about true Black history, African history, until the summer between eleventh and twelfth grade is when it hit big. I saw some things about Africa in the National Geographic and encyclopedia but there wasn’t very much







positive, you know, it was just and awareness of people there. I saw some special spread about some things like the middle passage and it was keenly obvious to me how in the curriculum in that school, they would never touch on that. They would not mention. You know everything starts in Jamestown 1619. You know like lowered from the sky. So all these mixed together in my reaction to religion, that the pastor of the school could not answer me that the pastor at the Black church seemed to be kind of just a performing guy to get the collection plate filled. My mother’s illness had been a challenge to my belief in—you know to a little kid there’s no spiritual justice in that, “My mommy’s sick, almost died” you know something’s wrong with that. So a lot of that shaped religion but the church still is very important to me in terms of people I’ve met, things I learned and in some negative ways too. You know like me and cousin sneaking out of church over to the candy store [laughter] every Sunday between the main service and the Sunday school.

	S:	Well that sounds like a positive memory. B:	Well hanging out with them was positive.

	S:	So I guess switching gears again, you went to Greenfield Peace Lutheran School and where did you go to school after that?

	B:	I went for one year to Lutheran High School West. And again I got an age where I thought I could say to my parents, “I ain’t gonna do it.” No matter that the consequences. And the consequence was they went with me. I said, “I’m not doing Lutheran school again.” And I went downtown starting tenth grade to Cass Technical High School, which was magnet school for Detroit. I graduated there







the last year before they threw on the iron doors and the armed security guards. So it was the last phase of a very open campus when I was there. And there was teacher strike my senior year so we were a month late graduating.

	S:	So you said it was technical school, did it have a— B:	Cass Technical High School. Used to be famous. S:	Oh okay. Did it have a certain technical specialty?

	B:	Oh they had several curricula. There was the architecture curriculum, there was an Arts and Science curriculum. There was Chem/Bio. There was Performing Arts. There was music. I mean these were highly developed. The architecture students there, they built these balsa wood models like you see you know, over on UF campus. The music students had various performing [inaudible 18:18] and all this other stuff that went to national competitions that won stuff. People came through that school like Diana Ross, Donald Byrd, they taught there and some of the Black Byrds were his students there. So this school had a lot of talent go through it, a lot of prolific musicians today, whose names you won’t know, but if you look em up and listen to their music, like Greg Phillingganes especially stands out in my mind. So it was a very special place to attend. And it’s very diverse. In fact the first person to every give me marijuana was a Russian Jew at Cass Technical High School. [Laughter]

	S:	That’s a cool fact. That’s so funny. So what were some of your favorite classes that you took there?

	B:	At Cass?



	S:	At Cass, yeah.







	B:	I was a typical kid. I liked classes depending on my connection to the teacher. So the classes I could tell you I liked was because I remember connecting with the teacher. So there was a few chemistry classes I really dug. Math I loved all the way through. I thought math was the greatest of fun and games all through high school. I loved it all, until I hit calculus.

	S:	Yeah I agree with that.



	B:	That was like running into a brick. So math teachers, there was one especially, he and I used to exchange barbs and insults in class. Just banter back and forth like something out of the [inaudible 19:54] I don’t know what we were into. But it was fun. You know, it became more fun when I realized that the teacher, where initially I thought I was being defiant and insulting, but he enjoyed it. And he was enjoying bantering right back. That school, you know I was in an age of rebellion against parents controlling all that kind of stuff, so to find adults who related so successfully like peers. So Cass was a really special school.

	S:	So were you on one of those technical tracks?



	B:	I was in Chem/bio. So I had a chemistry and some other science class every semester of high school. Chemistry and biology or chemistry and physics or you know, there was something every semester.

	S:	What do you think got you interest in the Chem/bio track?



	B:	I had a misplaced ambition to go into medicine at that time. I wanted to be an ophthalmologist but my focus was on drawing floor plans of five thousand square-foot houses. So I ended up near where I was heading then but through a lot of turns and U-turns and for a different reason now. But so I was very







interesting. Most of the Chem/bio kids were either interested, deeply interested in physics, they were the ones who did love calculus, or medicine.

	S:	So you said you spent some time in Ann Arbor, Michigan, that’s the University of Michigan, right? So what years did you attend the University of Michigan?

	B:	I arrived there in Fall of [19]74. And funneled straight into the Office of the Coalition for the Uses of Learning Skills, which was the Black counseling arm that resulted from the 1968 Bam strikes and Bam is for Black Action Movement.

	S:	So what was you major declared when you went to university of Michigan?



	B:	Loosely declared pre-med at that time. But by my second semester, I was starting to take social science electives and political science stuff. I got quickly distracted into social sciences, especially—well I was taking classes like public policy and the Black community and arts of Black folk, which was not really an art class at all. He showed some slides of some pieces of art one class, the entire semester. And the rest of the semester, the class was full of him firing questions at us out of books like Plant and Planet, Destruction of Black Civilization, How Europe Underdeveloped Africa, Africa: Mother of Western Civilization, some real history types. So in this counseling office was funneling all the incoming Black freshman toward that. People had the chance to opt out but 90 percent of us, 90 percent or better, did that. And it was—that’s a lasting memory too. Oh Lockhart, his name is John Onye Lockard. He’s a pretty famous artist. He died just a couple of years ago. And he did some pretty amazing artwork. J-O-N. No H. O-N- Y-E. No, no I’m sorry. J-O-N.

	S:	J-O-N.







	B:	Middle name O-N-Y-E. S:	O-N-Y-E.

	B:	Last name Lockard. L-O-C-K-A-R-D. S:	A-R-D.

	B:	Oh I had some great posters of his that went up with the house loss. But he would start every class by playing a particular piece of music. He would have us all stand up all and the class was held in this lounge-type room in one of the dorms closest to the quad. So it was not expressly a classroom. It was a more casual setting. Than a classroom and it had all this soft upholstered stuff, all these benches all around the room. And he would have us stand up, hold hands all around the room, while he played “You and I” by Stevie Wonder. We thought it was so corny then but looking back years later and thinking about how we related to each other just walking around campus, how different that was from Detroit.

We realized we really did make a difference. That material he was telling us made more difference. But it was good start. We knew we were still too adolescent to admit.

	S:	So the public policy classes that you took did that kind of steer you away from the bio and chemistry that you said you were. . .

	B:	I had to be dragged away. I kept trying to pursue that stuff but I wasn’t studying hard enough. You know I became an underperformer in all the science stuff. I washed myself out. Then I went toward the social science stuff. But along the way my father was killed in Detroit. So I ended up back in Detroit and looking to go to Wayne State in Detroit to finish. And at that point I just went for what I saw







was obviously really doing. But starting with finishing something at a community college. In the first year immediately back after he passed, that was 1978, January [19]78 I started at Wayne County Community College. And it took just two semesters to get a degree there because I had so much transfer. I had enough credits total for a degree from there but you know, no institution just takes you. You gotta do something with them. So all the stuff there was Black community focused, public policy and history-focused basically. Then transferred right over to Wayne State and did political science slash urban studies. It was a like a dual major. Political science and urban studies. That kind of led a migration trail for me and my family, coming out of that program. The last semester they told us about a HUD grant. Let’s see if I can remember. . . Communities Development Work Study Program. Yeah CDWSP. The HUD Community Development Work Study Program, which would pay minority students from low income precincts in Black neighborhoods basically. I’m trying to think of another way of describing it PC but you know what it was. To attend historically Black colleges, study community development and work in similar communities after.

This paid full tuition, books, materials and a stipend. And one of them was happening at Huntsville, Alabama, my mother’s ancestral home, where I still had a huge network of cousins and aunts and uncles, a support base waiting to land on and a federal grant to go to a college program to at a historically Black college. After I got to that college I kicked myself for—I got into a Black college in undergrad. I didn’t think it was important although my mother and all her Huntsville cadre, you know people that moved to Detroit from Huntsville, were







telling me it was better if go to a Black college. My mother was trying to get me to Morehouse because she’s from Spellman. But when I went to Alabama A&M I realized what I had missed. You know, to not have to deal with racism as an aspect of education just freed up education more. I was really focused, you know. I remember the first time I had my first chemistry class at the University of Michigan. I went before the second hourly exam because I struggled so much on the first one. I went to the professor’s office hours and they would add on extra office hours in the week before a major hourly exam. And these exams came three or four in the semester. They were a big chunk of your grade. I went in during office hours and supposedly he had an open door policy. You know, he had this big, long office and there a chalk board along most of one side. During his office hours you could just go in, was supposed to be the policy. So I walked in and there was like a help session going on inside but I’m the first Black student to arrive and the teacher’s, the professor is at the board. Now this is a lecture.

You’ve seen them at University of Florida, these lecture with three-hundred, four- hundred people and then you have these TAs that take different smaller sections and some of them are what you call wash-out courses. So you wanna make sure they knock a few people aside before you know, the 101s do that before you get to the 200s, 300s, 400s. Are we running out of time?

	S:	No, no, I’m just making sure it’s still recording.



	B:	So I walk into this class, this office and he’s at the board. And as I walk in, he says, “Hello! Come on in!” the hand is just erasing as he’s waving me in and later on the exam, I got a glimpse. I saw that stuff on the board before it was







obliterated. He was giving them verbatim stuff for the test before I arrived. And I saw other examples of that in Ann Arbor. It was like racism in the north was more subtle, you know. The south you get lynching. The north you get straight ahead express lane promotion for anybody non-Black. Life is still affected either way.

	S:	So let’s see, back to Huntsville, right? B:	Huntsville, Alabama. The space capital. S:	Is that a T or a D?

	B:	A T. Huntsville.



	S:	How long were you in that program in Huntsville?



	B:	Officially I got my degree there in 2016. Oh I’m sorry not 2016 what am I saying?



1986 is when the degree was confirmed. Boy. [Laughter] here it comes. But I entered the program in fall of [19]82. We went through a big thing of coming down here and visiting and checking it out and getting moved down here. It was really [inaudible 31:15]. But I started the program in fall of [19]82 and it should have been a two year program. And I actually became a part-time employee of the University after I finished the two years of core coursework. Although I was one of the top students in the program there was one person ahead of me, I went over and took a computer class as my required out-of-department elective and I got a B in that and then I got a B in Capital Improvements Program. I was never a finance type of person. The debits and credits is beyond me. So otherwise I would have had a 4.0 for the curriculum. There’s one student ahead of me. But even though, you know, leading the rank of the class, I never did finish my terminal research. And I found out after 1986 that it had been conferred. The







department just very quietly kinda put it on me because they needed for their number two student that year to have finished the program. Just politically with HUD to continue their grant. That was a terrible optic. So they just put it on me and they didn’t say anything. I mean several years later, I found out. I just happened to be in Huntsville on entirely other stuff but the person I was visiting was going to the community garden out at A&M. I said, “Let me just run to the records office and get a transcript because I been looking for it and I can’t find it.” I got it. I got two sealed ones. And I opened the one and it said ‘Degree 1986.’ So anyway, I get the Masters in Urban and Regional Planning and other than that, my research I declared was supposed to be remote sensing and somehow I just set it aside. I was supposed to have been doing that at the time I moved to Gainesville and was trying to file for custody of my son and trying to get my house. So I shoveled it under myself. And never sent but they conferred. What question were we dealing with when I went into all of that?

	S:	I don’t remember but I was gonna ask, so then what brought you to Gainesville?



	B:	Dean Rodger McDavis. He was the Dean of Minority Graduate Studies. So his office was in Grinter Hall. He used to tour the country and when it came to trying to recruit Black students, he went to several. Alabama A&M was part of his regular route. And at these schools he would just ask to go into the records office, to go into the archives and he would find the, what he thought were academic profiles he wanted to try to bring to University of Florida. So for me it was out of the blue. He approached me and said, did I want to come to graduate school in Gainesville, Florida at the University of Florida. At that time, the







department hadn’t conferred the degree. So he saw that it was not complete when he was looking. But he invited me and at first I had no interest. I don’t like moving. But then I realized where Gainesville was. Me and my wife had split up toward the end of her program. She also did a similar structure, federal-financed study program in speech pathology at Alabama A&M. I found out about that after I arrived in the fall, she had stayed in Detroit. And I was able to call her and tell her, “Look, honey, when you come down along with the babies, I’ll help you with them, because I got you a slot in this speech pathology program. But by the end of her program we were breaking up. And she went to several things around Florida and ended up around Jacksonville and I realized, “Oh wait a minute, that’s right down the road from the kids.” We’d had some problems about letting me keep the communication with them, like her not even accepting a telephone for free, sponsored by her parents. That was before cell phones. So when I got to Gainesville I was more focused on getting up to Jacksonville at least every other weekend and taking the kids to the zoo or whatever I could do with them. But ostensibly I came here to do a doctorate in real estate in the business school.

	S:	Ah like your father.



	B:	Yeah, yeah, but I was more interested in the public policy side of the housing pattern. And I’d seen that, you know, with my father being a broker during all those neighborhood flipping years. My mother being with urban renewal and moving people out and seeing neighborhoods bisected by these highways. You know, I was five years old but I was really nosy. I absorbed a lot. She got me into that. You know, I was reading by age three because of lap time with books. I







found out what an advantage that was because going to even pre-k and nursery school and kindergarten I was dotted on by teachers because I was coming in with skills. I knew my alphabet, I could write my name. I could say my address, my phone number. I knew my parents by actual names besides “mommy and daddy.” Unfortunately, kids who get better home preparation in preschool and community-level preparation get better support in school. So that’s probably not gonna change so the issue is to get better preparation for more kids. But you know, so living differences like that too, you know, I saw the need for better development for Black communities. At the same time I was learning African history and the slave trade and the middle passage and reconstruction and seeing how all these things were engineered to make a certain group the heel of everybody else’s shoe on purpose. You know, once the covers were pulled off of that for me, I guess that became kind of obsessive. I had to find something to do to oppose it. In whatever way presented, you know, particularly when there were so many groups around doing things I could participate in. Like in Detroit, there was the Republic of New Africa. In Huntsville there was a thing called the Kalaheda Community Association. They introduced Kwanzaa there for the first time. And here I came. There was things like Cultural Arts Coalition, A thing called the African Studies Association of Alachua County. They presented the first petition for Black studies in the school curriculum in 1990 at the School Board of Alachua County at the famous Kirby Smith center. That name is gone but I just I don’t know. It’s gone from the face of the building period.







	S:	Interesting. So I guess my next question is, so how did you get interested in healthcare with all this—

	B:	Looking at my own health and that of family members and I got into healthy eating over the years. I’m vegan and I can feel the difference. I’m seeing what the link of bad food to chronic morbid diseases drew me to healthcare for a different reason than in the past. Then, once I got here and things did not work out with those graduate programs. The real estate decided to push aside my suggested research. When I came in they cheered for my suggestion. I went through this experience twice at UF. They cheered for my suggested research topic of how to increase affordable housing. I’m still dealing with today with these city and county commissions. They pushed me off to actually do feasibility studies a friend of theirs out in the market. They were using me as the researcher for some business deals for a buddy of theirs. So I ended up leaving that program and went over to College of Health and Human Performance, where I was already teaching aerobics classes and I decided, “Well about time to come to school over there.” The topic I selected there was “Melanin and the Training Effect? Myth of the Black Super Athlete.” Yeah but it would have been controversial and that would have been interesting. It would have gotten me in trouble with Black people too most likely. I thought it was an interesting tact. And they cheered that when I was coming in. Got me in, switched me over to some hypertension stuff. Which obviously is important but there’s a million people doing that. So I left school after that and started doing this job hopping. I began to look at healthcare in this area from a standpoint of an economically needy







single parent as well as just the need for healthcare and the real dynamics of healthy living. Every time on the radio they talk about, “How can we bring healthcare costs down?” and I’m thinking, “How about stop killing our damn selves?” You know, eating poison and sitting back to let it soak in. We have an FDA that’s helping to scoop poison into our mouths. So I wanted to see public policy faced up to in a rational way. So I was getting more and more interested in public policy. Now, one of the jobs I hoped into early on here, was one where I tried to use my training, my urban and regional planning. So even though I didn’t know about the degree that moment, they took me at the-- what’s it called? North Central Florida Regional Planning Council I think that’s the name of it. [Phone buzzes] Is that me or you?

	S:	I think might be you.



	B:	So I was one of the associate planners there. People that I worked with there are still doing planning in this area. They might do an interview for you. Bedez Massey and Jason Simmons at the City of Gainesville.

	S:	How do you spell Bedez?



	B:	B-E-D-E-Z. Massey. And Jason Simmons. They are planner with the city of Gainesville. I think they find working with the city less distasteful than it was with the planning council. Here’s what was distasteful for me. I was assigned two small towns and we were supposed to go out in those towns and do what we call “Windshield surveys” where we update a two or three year old aerial photo and also include notes about building conditions, any outstanding physical problems we see like poor drainage, standing water. The Black neighborhoods were very







identifiable in both these towns. They were clearly in terrible shape. You know, plus I saw some of the people that are of there. But we would precede the drive- around always with a trip to city hall and ask the clerk. In small towns it’s usually the clerk more in charge than the mayor. And asked the clerk, “Are there any places in town where you have drainage problems? Are there any places in town where they don’t have enough fire hydrants?” we asked a litany of questions about infrastructure issues mostly. And they would always answer with, “Oh that’s not a problem. Oh except over there in the Quarters.” Or whatever was the nickname for that part of town. “No, we don’t have that problem. Oh well maybe over in the…” and we’d ask, “Any patron not served by a school?” “Oh we closed the schools the over there in. . .” And I’d go out and see these places and they’d be in horrible shape, yet the statistics for these areas were what these localities were using. The assessments of these problems were where they got a lot of state and federal grant money, yet they were directing the greatest benefit of that spending to other areas. You know, as long as they put some little marginal tail end of it. Like if the first block of the north end of Quarters gets a little less wash- off then that million dollars of drainage they did across Main Street going uphill, that’s alright. That kind of thing. We as planners, I came back to the office saying, “Wow, I really found a beehive of corruption. We can break this wide open.” And the people that run the planning council were “Oh, no do it their way. We do what they want.” So my job was going to be to promote this good old boy trading.

Keep running exactly as it had. That’s a dilemma that planners are faced. So if you get to dealing with Black planners or any planners probably. Andrew Meek—







no not Meeko, Andrew something…Parsons, this is not a Black person, he’s now the interim head of the Department of Doing. But he has long espoused inclusionary zoning and affordable housing, the way I have been but as a minion. He had to you know, soft pedal it. He was the one planner who was pointing people toward the Port Point developers toward the incentives for affordable housing. You know, so they these kind of in a drawer. City and county, same behavior. Came up with these incentives but did nothing to activate them, didn’t promote them, push them, teach them. They were just pushed aside. So there are a few people trying to do stuff close to the ideals we saw in the planning classrooms. You know, the air and light movement and all this stuff. All this city on a hill stuff that a lot of occupations have in classroom. And then you go real world and corporations and racism and all kinds of stuff jumps in.

	S:	That sounds frustrating. So when did you go to nursing school?



	B:	I started nursing school in [19]97. After trying the planning stuff, I did a different program at Santa Fe College, same college with the nursing. That was in 1990. I did the cardiopulmonary tech program. Loved it and great at stuff. I was a really good sonographer. You know, where you’re using the probe and getting pictures of structures and movement and all this stuff. And it’s cardiopulmonary tech. But there was not enforced state licensing for that field. A lot of hospitals were cross- training anybody, I mean janitors, cooks, anybody, might get cross trained for subtasks within cardiopulmonary tech. So again I ended up working at the school for a minute. Working at a couple schools. Working at a school in the community in exchange for my son’s tuition for a little private school. But at that school I was







in charge of a program to recruit and maintain minority students. And after that year doing that program, a little more than a year, I decided, “Well I’m gonna go through the nursing program, now that I’ve counseled all these nursing students and helped them.” And I’ve had a lot of this life science stuff in the past. So I figured, you know, “I can do this.” So economically as well as the health needs. Oh earlier on in Gainesville, late eighties, early nineties I had done other things in the community. Like I taught aerobics classes at the some of the community centers around Gainesville. I’d just go in and people could come for free or a donation. I don’t remember seeing more than a couple bucks in the donation.

That wasn’t the point. It was exercise for me too. And I had done that in Huntsville in one of those big, fancy clubs like Gainesville Health and Fitness. You know, first time in my life I had been paid that kind of money.

	S:	That’s cool though that you were doing that for free just to help out people in the community. That’s really interesting. So you went to University of Florida’s College of Nursing or Santa Fe?

	B:	No, no Santa Fe. S:	Santa Fe, okay.

	B:	I did pre-recs at Santa Fe and proud to say I got a 4.0. And I came up with a method of organizing you school semester calendar, I call the “no sweat guaranteed 4.0” and everyone who has used it has gotten all the A’s they wanted. But it’s intensely competitive, so getting a 4.0, I only needed those few courses because I’d had so much in the past. So I did that semester pre-recs with a 4.0 and that really made a big difference in me getting into the program







because they have a hundred point muff system. The program I had managed, students registering for that get five points for being on that roster. And there were a bunch of other things like you’d get the maximum employment area points if you’re working in an area of healthcare. Sustained employment in anything was certain number of points, you know “blah-blah-blah” to get in. But your grade point had the biggest block of points. Also, Rodell Robinson and Vivian Filer were then on the curriculum and I’d already become acquainted with them around the community because of all my stuff espousing Black history, going out and doing Black history presentations for people and for groups. Like I’ve been to Rodell’s family church up in Bland, a part of Alachua a couple Februaries in a row. So they were well acquainted with me and they were determined to get Black students into the program as much as they could. So they made a difference, too. Made a difference in keeping me there as well because I ran into discouraging behaviors even though I knew they were coming because I had counseled Black students. It was like a script, you know. I could see, “Now she’s gonna say” I could almost mouth the words with her. And then there was just a couple of members of that faculty who Black students got a lot of problems from and they didn’t think of themselves as sticking out like sore thumbs but they certainly did. When a teacher named Opray is called ‘Opredator” and a teacher named Whitney is called “Whitey” you know, something’s really disturbing people to carry on that language. On the one hand, the first time I heard that I said, “Oh that’s awful” and pretty soon I was like “Okay.” But they, Vivian and Rodell they really kept me. I was about to leave at one point and they said, “No you—“ just







like Dr. King told Nichelle Nichols, “No you stay in Star Trek.” He told her “No, you have to say.” I’m glad they did.

S:  So what would say was the ratio of like Black students or minority students to White students in your class?

B:   Let’s see. Was it maybe, I don’t know, seven or eight to one. Something like that. It wasn’t bad. At the beginning. At the end it was more like twelve to one. A lot of people left the program.

S:   And how long was that program?



	B:	It’s five semesters with one break. You go three, you go off. Fall, spring, summer A, you’re off for summer B, and fall and spring. In the fall, I think it was the first fall, the second fall semester began clinicals if I remember. Where we were actually going out in community to different settings. Like we’d have two weeks in a nursing home and two weeks in a mother-baby unit and two weeks of med surge and so forth.

	S:	Okay very cool. So where was your first job after nursing school? B:	Levin College of Law. [Laughter]

	S:	Okay I was going to say—



	B:	I still can’t stop jumping all over the place. S:	No that’s awesome!

	B:	Well, while I was in nursing school I was also in a group called Community Coalition against Poverty. And we were bulldogging the steps of the Wages Board. That’s the board that was in charge of welfare reform in our district. I think—they might have just been Alachua County at that time. But there was a







state wages board and then all these little mini wages boards all over the state. And all the things that happened with welfare reform were supposed to be managed by this board but it was a deep disaster. So, Liz McCulloch, who was on the staff of the Center for Governmental Responsibility in Levin College of Law, pull out a call for people to apply for a program director position. It was gonna pay $51,000 for eighteen months’ work. It was gonna involve organizing client groups in three cities around Florida: Gainesville, little teeny Bunnell, and Orlando. Well organizing welfare client groups around issues related to the welfare reform and it involved educating these recipients but one big goal was to have them attending and giving feedback at the board meetings. Consequently, oh I think about 2001 or 2002, I ended up having the county commission here appoint me to the local wages board, but that’s now Career Source, the one stop center. I seem to be sort of stuck. I would like to be done with it. Ninety percent of what I say, no one else is bringing up. I think it happens to be vital stuff.

Moreover, I’m what’s called the welfare client transition rep. Like during those years of job hoping and single parenting, I got some public support. I got some section eight and I got Medicaid for my son. So I could definitely relate to getting from welfare to being economically, more or less, self-sufficient. And was very keen to the holes in the services at the career centers. They would hire all these subcontractors, who would basically give feedback on themselves. They do, supposedly they do customer surveys and give self—kinda like Boeing. You know self-inspecting. And you see what happens with that. But what was crashing was clients. When the bus cards were just not available for a month or







when they didn’t get their textbooks until the second month of the semester. Or when three hundred kids were dis-enrolled from early childcare. Their parents were supposed to somehow magically make it through the gaps. That was the promise of welfare reform. Welfare reform said, “We’re going to cut back and cut out those family welfare checks over time, but we’re gonna put in extra supports to help you become economically self-sufficient. And since there are already alternatives as far as housing and food and most places even clothing, we’re gonna give extra supports in childcare, in training and education, in transportation.” Those were the promises of welfare reform. And yet today if you go to a career source meeting, everything they talk about is, “How can we serve business, what does business need? Business, business, business.” And previous governors turned those boards into overwhelmingly business people.

So it’s like, you know, if I don’t stay there, something’s really not gonna be dealt with at all. Many times I stopped them from turning, from putting a six month review periods on a bad metric. Some provider comes up with an unsatisfactory metric and they go, “Oh we’ll recheck that in six months.” I’m like, “No, you check that next month.” I mean there’s always things that are serving the least empowered group, the poorest group, the welfare family, those are still the “hard to serve.” The services to them are always the stuff that are put on the longest, loosest leash. And somebody has to untolerate that or it gets worse. So, yeah, I’m also frequently trying to recruit people from east Gainesville and East County to come downtown and get on advisory boards and committees. So, maybe. . . yeah and I can be helped fewer.







	S:	So do you think all of your community knowledge and urban planning knowledge has helped you in your healthcare career?

	B:	I think it has literally helped me understand where people are coming from. When I’m loading up a team for a shift, you know, when I’m looking at the patient’s records and their med record and their symptoms and all that stuff, I can also see where they live. And I’m not assuming things about people because of where they live, but there are some conditions I know of where people live. Like if I, if I’m working oncology one night and I see a patient whose address is in the Stephen Foster neighborhood, you know I have an inclination that they might have some resentment that their environment and public policy made them sick. It’s good to have, you know, insights into what’s affecting people emotionally and physically. That’s what nursing does really. Compared to doctors, I’m not judging doctors as people, I’m judging medical curricula, which are more influenced by big pharma than anybody else. So that’s the nursing touch. You spend more time with the patients but we are supposed to connect more with them. Doctors are supposed to too, but they’re not doing it, so we have to do more of it. So I appreciate that about nursing and that’s why I keep doing it even though I deeply resent administration and the deliberate understaffing and the total devotion to the building codes. I really want to see single payer healthcare. I wanna see the qualification for healthcare be having an organic body and still breathing or not stopping more than twenty minutes. There shouldn’t be anything else you need to get healthcare.







	S:	So just for the record, you’re employed at Shands. So do you have a favorite specialty or department that you like to work in?

	B:	I do really like the emergency room because you get such variety, you more frequently meet the families and the time flies because you’re getting so much different stuff. You can, you know, keep different skills up working in the emergency room. I’ve gotten a lot of human insight out of working again in the psych setting and did that as what was called a handler, way back in the day in Detroit. But as a nurse, I’ve worked the psych unit at Shands and it’s special connecting with people and trying to help people and trying to understand people. My favorite assignment ever, which I haven’t been to lately, I hope I get to resume it, was volunteer nursing at a conference site in South Florida called “Florida Nature and Culture Center.” It’s a Buddhist conference center that has weekend long conferences. They always bring in a doctor or nurse, more often a nurse just as a medical cover to look out for people, to be aware of the notes registrants have included in their registration about medical issues and prescriptions. In forty or so of conferences there, I took people to emergency room five times. So it was pretty good. My goal there was usually no trips to the emergency room.

	S:	That’s a good goal.



	B:	But if somebody’s about to die, you have to do something.



	S:	That’s very fascinating. So have you noticed any changes in like the dynamics of working at Shands since you starting working there?







	B:	Well I’ve seen a lot of interesting things personally. I guess you may be talking in regards to race also. Was it three years or four? Four years ago I worked a twelve hour overnight shift the night of Christmas Eve. So I’m clocking out Christmas morning, dog tired. I think I was on the burn unit, I was someplace really super intense. I mean where you’re like [eyes wide] all night long. And I just didn’t feel like I could make it home. So I went to this lounge they had called the “Serenity room,” which was a nursing lounge I’m wearing my nurses scrubs. I have my work ID, I always wear right in the middle of my tunic. So you know, if I laying back down, face up on a reclining lounger, with this ID showing and wearing nurses scrubs and in a nursing lounge. Okay so that’s the picture. It’s about eight o’clock by the time I give report and clock out and everything and I go relax on that chair. And after some long span of time I felt a little refreshed, it was at least a couple hours. I had the feeling of someone standing over me, opened my eyes, I wasn’t sure if I was dreaming or really opening my eyes at first. And standing over me were two UPD officers. And they told me they had come to check out a report of suspicious behavior. So they come into supposedly an area where something suspicious is and maybe I was the first person they found who happened to be asleep. Who happened to be obviously where they belonged.

I’ve been working at Shands for years by then. I was a nursing lounge in nursing clothes with hospital ID and asleep. Was I snoring? You know, what was it? I’ve had to reprimand fellow workers about stuff. I mean LGBTQ issues too. In the emergency room I had a coworker worker right beside me. Our teams were next to each other, or our beds were next to each other, you know people were







funneling through constantly, so your team was ever-changing. But our teams were next to each other and a Trans female came to one of these beds and back at the station, you know we’re looking up orders and checking stuff, well he said some really abusive, nasty stuff. And I told him “You can’t do that.” You’re not supposed to do that. Nurses in particular are not supposed to do that. “Do you want me to take this patient?” I believe I did, I’m trying to think, I think I did take that patient. It was someone I knew from the community. No I didn’t actually take the patient but I starting tasking with him. Because, you know, having teams next to each other, you typically were sharing tasks. Like “Did you bring the vac to that one? Oh mine got a vac, too. Take ‘em both” That kind of thing. So I’ve seen that kind of thing happen. Another Christmas night in the ER, instead of burn. One of the other nurses, I was playing some Christmas music, and it happened to be Donny Hathaway doing “This Christmas.” And Stevie Wonder “Someday at Christmas” and the Supremes “Silent Night.” Oh not the Supremes, the Temptations, Silent Night. And at a point she said, “I’m just sick of all this Christmas music. Tired, tired, tired.” And a lot of us were a little cynical about holidays because here we are working. So she turned it off. I was very busy with something I didn’t have time to worry about it. I just okay whatever. Ten minutes later, the same nurse turns on some Christmas music but it’s Andy Williams, Bing Crosby, Elvis Presley, you know all that. And I’m thinking, “Oh I understand, it’s Black-sounding Christmas music that’s bothering you.” Okay. [Laughter]

	S:	Not the Christmas music itself. Wow. Interesting. So do you feel like your relationship with your coworkers has changed since you started working there?







	B:	The ones I work with more frequently. It’s been, I would have to say it’s been on the basis of them seeing me function competently as a nurse. And I guess I would say familiarity has made things be the way they should. You judge people their behavior their character, their performance. So, you know, I’ve gotten to know some people. There are some charge nurses who they see—some all over the bill. There are some charge nurses who see me come in and go, “Oh! Thank goodness they sent you!” and things like that. I had these two patients…you know frequently they’re putting me with the Black patients who’s totally pissed off at them. I get to calm them down. Sometimes they put me with the redneck whose pissing them off too and I get call them down. And somebody who’s at the beginning of the shift said to me, “You gonna be my nurse?” by morning they and their families say, “We’re sorry for…”

	S:	Wow that’s crazy. Even today. B:	Yeah.

	S:	So are there any moments in being a nurse that have really made an impact on you or that really stuck with you?

	B:	Oh it was those moments I just said. Those were the ones. Of all, when I get someone’s who’s quote unquote, when I’m not being PC I just say “redneck,” and greets me with that open hostility in the beginning and are humble and comfortable. Humble because they’re comfortable. You know, I helped them through the night, you know, made them feel better. Period. Nothing gets around that. I get to hope that that turn around that night continues on down the line, day after day.







	S:	Yeah they’ve been really grateful for your work and hopefully. . .



	B:	I hope they see more Black people as people. But I still get out experiences where I can tell I’m not being seen as a person. Recently I somewhere entered a drawing for a place called Hot Works. And I went to see it. And it happened to be a week when I had access to easy transportation I was house sitting for some friends and car was included. I went to see this place and was given a tour and it’s really cool. You should check out this place, it looks great. I had some errands to run, I didn’t have stuff with me. So I told the lady, “Well I’ll come back this evening.” She told me the hours to come for the special I was getting as compared to members who had a key fob, they can come 24/7. So I came back during those hours, the staffed hours. The staff were buzzing around, I figured they see me eventually but there was customer, and apparent customer walking around the front area. He saw me, he didn’t open the door. He just looked at me and looked away. And he stared looking at this board on the wall and seemed to be trying to figure out something. And he went back in the back and came back with a young woman who clearly was staff because she was showing, she was explaining things on this board to him and then reached on the desk and handed him something. So it was a staff person. She looked over at the door, at me knocking and ringing the bell and looked away. And I called the number on the door. I called the phone number associated with the text that had given me this special. And got robots on those and knocked and rang some more. And the same people continued milling around, continued ignoring that I was there. And I said, “Well I guess I’ll just leave before they call the police or something.” But you







know, I was there clearly and later on the woman that had given me the tour, I texted and said something about being treated shabbily. She texted back, “Oh I’m so sorry I was in the back. My staff person must have been busy too. They should have helped you.” I didn’t bother telling her, “Well your staff person ignored me.” And urged me to come back, “Come on back. We’d love to have you.” Well that’s not what I care to be around. There was at least one staff person and one customer who looked at me and didn’t see a person. So I don’t feel safe being around that. Why would I allow that on purpose?

	S:	Yeah, you don’t want to put yourself in that situation again. So are there any things that you would like to see change in terms of healthcare in Gainesville in the future? Like what. . .

	B:	Oh gosh. It would take magic to do what I want. I wish AGH had never been torn down. That was an abomination. I wish we could have again something like the Choices Program and that it had it accomplished all the chronic disease support it hinted at, at the beginning. We need effects that come from above Gainesville. You cannot solve these things at one hospital or one community. At least state level we need the Medicaid expansion. Nothing else will do. That’s 770,000 people provided care and 70,000 plus good-paying jobs. That’s billions coming and covering ninety percent of the bill for that expansion for at least two more years and then goes down after that. But those two years are years where you’d get people better. You get people ready to need less expensive care for years if you get on the stick and get that money and apply it to a lot of education, a lot of, especially nutrition and exercise, support or encouragement, something. Just to







get people living healthier. Kick the FDA out of our lives. That needs to happen federally. The FDA needs to cease authorizing anything that is toxic in any amount in food. Just because there’s a trace of tetrabutyl hydroquinone in those fries, not enough to kill you. Well if it’s something that a teaspoon straight would send you to the hospital, it does not belong in food. Yet we’re getting that over years, years, years. Why do we lead the world in colorectal cancer? You know we’re making out own healthcare crisis by living, especially eating, so unhealthily. So you know all the environmental pollutions too. There’s systems, local, state and federal that need to act on alternative fuels, on all kinds of fronts that are stressful to human, to organic life, not just human.

	S:	That’s true. Wow okay, I feel like we’ve gone over everything that I wanted to ask you about. Is there anything else you wanted to add to the conversation on healthcare workers or just your life in general?

	B:	Let’s see. . . I just want our health systems that are available in stressed communities to reach people where they are. To focus on doing effective things on the most essential problems. Like having the right culturally prepared and culturally sensitive doesn’t necessarily have to be Black but there’s gotta be some Black folks somewhere in the preparation of the people going out—to help people communicate with, understand, feel unthreatened by health outreaches and the things they need to do to take care of themselves. What do I mean by that? For instance, when I’m speaking to a men’s prostate cancer support group, they have had experience. They have no trouble understanding when I pull a glove on and go, “This is not your enemy”. But out in the community, you can’t







get men to get themselves checked. And they might be letting their lives slip away for a false machismo or a sense of threat cause, “I ain’t letting no White doctor”. Sometimes it’s the color of the doctor. It’s all kinds of things. So our medical systems need to be effective, number one. They need to be better financed like Medicaid expansion. They need to be effective. We need to get to the real problems. The real problem behind so many things is just poverty. We can’t keep throwing Band-Aids on symptoms. And not addressing causes. So poverty and especially a racial basis of poverty is this community and this country’s biggest issues to me. Or at least equal with climate change.

	S:	Well thank you so much for meeting with me today. I’ve enjoyed this interview so much.

	B:	Thank you for asking me! Thank you for asking me. It’s a good self-remotivation to get to do something like this.

Transcribed by:

Anna Spiller

April 19, 2019

Audit-edited by:

Sandra Romero

June 11, 2019

Final Edited by:

Charity Kelly

May 17, 2020













t’