AAHP 438; Moreland and Moreland; Page 10

Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb



Samuel Proctor Oral History Program

College of Liberal Arts and Sciences



Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


The image part with relationship ID rId8 was not found in the file.




241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu





The image part with relationship ID rId1 was not found in the file.



AAHP 438 Julian Ross Moreland and Margaret Beverly Moreland African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Vicki Oldham on September 4, 2015 42 minutes | 23 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Julian Ross Moreland and Margaret Beverly Moreland discuss growing up in Sarasota, and businesses open at the time. They briefly touch on their grandparent’s efforts to feed the community during the Depression. Mr. Moreland sheds light on race relations in Sarasota as an adolescent, and the importance of Greater Hurst Chapel in the community, especially with the Civil Rights Movement. Mr. Moreland also voices his opinions on integration’s effect on education for people of color.



Keywords: [African American History; Education; Sarasota]



Standards:

	SS.912.A.5.7 National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP)

	SS.912.A.7.8, SS.7.C.3.12 Brown v. Board of Education









































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 438

Interviewee: Julian Ross Moreland and Margaret Beverly Moreland Interviewer: Vicki Oldham

	Date: September 4, 2015 O:	Give me your names.

	JM:	My name is Julian Ross Moreland.



	O:	Can I start one more time because I didn’t have this rolling? But Jim, you were, I know. It is September 4th, and I’m here with:

	JM:	Julian Ross Moreland. O:	And?

	MM:	Margaret Beverley Moreland Cherry Mitchell. [Laughter] O:	All of that!

	MM:	All of that!



	O:	Tell me—and she is all of that. Tell me your parents’ names. JM:	James Edward and Margaret Moreland.

	O:	Were they already here in Sarasota, or did they come from someplace else? JM:	My father was born in Georgia, and my mother was born in North Carolina. O:	Do you remember what cities in Georgia and North Carolina?

	JM:	I think it was Moultrie, Georgia. But my father came here from Dawson.



	O:	I’m familiar with Dawson and Moultrie. Why did they come to Sarasota? What were they doing?

	JM:	They came from little kids. Okay? My grandmother came here from, she used to walk down the railroad tracks from where she was living in Georgia to Albany.

And she came to Sarasota some kind of way from there. And she met and married our grandfather.

	O:	And what sort of work did they do?





	JM:	Well, my grandfather, he was an entrepreneur. He owned a general store downtown.

	O:	When you say “downtown”—?



	JM:	Down town, what we call downtown. I don’t know what y’all call it, but we call it “downtown. Anything other side of Foot Mill, the main street, was downtown.

	O:	What was in that store?



	JM:	I wouldn’t bother with it, so I couldn’t tell you what was. All I know is the general store. People come in and buy food and other commodities.

	O:	White people and African-American people?



	JM:	Yeah. Sold it to everybody. He didn’t discriminate, because hell, he looked like that man back there by that camera.

	O:	What was his name again? JM:	Dwight Bush.

	O:	I’ve seen his name in books. Tell me your remembrances of your parents, and— JM:	Well, my parents owned a few things. Juke joint, couple of dance halls and stuff.

Right there on the corner: Links and what we called 33rd Street at the time. It was a juke joint.

	O:	What was the name of it? JM:	Bamboo Club.

	O:	Oh, Bamboo Club!



	JM:	Had a bunch of bamboo bushes out there in the front of it. So, we called it the “bamboo club.” My dad ran that for umpteen years. ‘Til they got run out of town.

	O:	Why did they get run out of town?





	JM:	Well, he got run out of town because he smacked the White sheriff upside the head with his pistol.

	O:	What caused that, do you remember? JM:	He put his hands on him.

	O:	The sheriff did.



	JM:	Yeah.



	O:	Okay, tell me more about the club. Were there live groups performing there?



	JM:	Not there. When we were running it, we called it Dance Hall, which is down there where the old junk yard used to be. Right across the street. They had live entertainment.

	O:	Do you remember some of the groups?



	JM:	I remember I went to see James Brown, and—



	O:	Hold up a second. Wait, now. Quiet on the set! [Laughter] All right. Now, tell me about James Brown.

	JM:	I went to see him. James Brown learned how to skate across the floor from watching me and another guy.

	O:	From watching you and who?



	JM:	The guy was, I can’t think of, remember his name now. O:	How did you learn how to fly across the—?

	JM:	[Laughter] I could dance. I can’t walk now, but I could dance.



	O:	Okay. Tell me your remembrances: now, you grew up in the Overtown area. JM:	No, ma’am.

	O:	Tell me where you grew up in.





	JM:	I grew up in New Town. Knew absolutely nothing about Old Town unless I went to the movie, which was on 5th Street.

	O:	All right, and sister, as you’re listening to your brother speak, if you remember anything particular about the movie theater—do you?

	MM:	Yes, I do. I remember we had to walk our railroad track. We used to walk the railroad track.

	O:	Wait! Wait just a minute! Quiet on the set! Mr. Rainey and Ms. Moore? Quiet on the set! They having a good time! Reunion time. Anyway, the movie theater.

	MM:	When I was a little girl, and we would get together with a lot of our friends who wanted to go to the movies. And we would walk the railroad track together to get to the movie. Because we, the railroad track went straight to the street where it was, and we’d go to the movies. And he was talking about the Bamboo Club?

Well, we used to have to go up there sometimes to see our parents. And he told me later in years that Links Avenue had another name. That’s the first time I heard about it. I was fully grown when he spoke it. And we went to church right across the street.

	O:	What was the name of your church?



	MM:	Hurst Chapel AME Church—it’s now Greater Hurst Chapel, but it was Hurst Chapel African Methodist Episcopal Church. That’s the church we attended.

	O:	Did your parents allow you to work in the club at all?



	JM:	We were too small, most of us. We hired to clean up, they’d mind me washing some glasses and stuff. Because on one side of it had a restaurant. My daddy





was a cook. And we had a restaurant on one side, we had a juke joint—that’s what I always called it.

	O:	Do you remember some of the music of your time? Some of the famous songs, or—favorite songs that you danced to?

	MM:	“Work with Me, Annie.” [Laughter] Was one of them; we had a jukebox, they called it in the day, where you put your money in and you could pick whatever choice of songs that you wanted to play. And one of the songs that used to—they banned it, “Work with Me, Annie.”

	O:	Why?



	MM:	If it came back today, it’d be okay.



O:  But what was wrong with it back then? MM: Elderly people would have been the— O:  Inappropriate.

MM:  Inappropriate, yes.



	O:	“Work with Me, Annie,” because it had sexual— MM:	The words that it had in it, mmhm.

	JM:	Excuse me: the drugstore, which is where—right there, Cain’s market—that’s where we hung out at the school and stuff. Ms. Humphrey had the man to take it off. The next he put it on there, we used to come by and, we’d set the jukebox.

The next day, she had him to come back and take it off. It was too explicit.



	O:	Okay.



	MM:	They called it “vulgar.”





	O:	Oh, they called it vulgar. Okay. This is a story that I haven’t heard, so this is really—

	JM:	There’s a lot you haven’t heard! [Laughter] O:	Tell me more about what I haven’t heard.

	JM:	You haven’t heard that we didn’t have nothing much out here, and where we lived is all we had. And all the people here was together. And they are not like that today. My grandmother and grandfather, during the Depression, I was told, fed half the community. My grandfather had general store downtown. There was a man had some goats. Mr. June—I can’t think his last name. And right across the street there were, what was that apartment number, the apartment across from the house?

	O:	They used to be the Oaks, but they’re now the Housing Authority, owned houses?

	JM:	Over there, he kept his goats. And my grandmother had two cows. During the Depression, every baby in the community got milk from those two cows, that no baby would go without milk. My grandmother fed them. And Mr. Rainey was talking about sharing food? I remember when there used to be a lot of hobos would come up off the railroad tracks. And my grandmother told me if I had a plate of food, the only thing I had to eat was that plate of food, somebody ask me, say they were hungry, I was supposed to give that plate of food to them.

Because she would give you some food. You don’t know how long somebody been going without eating. So, we had to share. And we shared everything in the community, and with everybody.





	O:	And by “hobo,” you mean somebody homeless?



	JM:	Yeah, you know—you ain’t never heard of turning hobo? You are yellow! [Laughter]

	O:	I want you to share some other things that I might not know.



	JM:	Okay. You might not know that we wasn’t born—when I was born, I was born in Sarasota, Florida. At the hospital. Not inside the hospital; in one of them out-port houses. Plus, they didn’t let us niggas inside the hospital. Don’t get offended, because my grandma done called me that all my life, so I ain’t got no problem with it. But we weren’t allowed inside the hospital unless you had an operation or something. All right? And this was one of the most prejudiced towns of the time, in this state. Couldn’t do a lot of things here. My grandfather—if you go downtown on 6th Street, where the Ice House was, there’s a plaque there. My grandfather’ name was there. He was Supervisor of Colored Education. He went to St. Petersburg and brought Ms. Booker here. She stayed in his house there, where my sister live now, for about a week and a half.

	O:	The house that’s on Maple and MLK? JM:	Yes, ma’am.

	MM:	That house right back there. O:	Mrs. Booker?

	JM:	Yes, ma’am.



	O:	Do you remember her?



	JM:	No, ma’am. I was too young to remember. But I do know this there because I— they allowed me for some reason, they don’t usually let young’ns sit around





grown people when they talk. But I could sit around and listen, and sometimes interject some things. For some reason, my Uncle Bud, which I—he treated me like I was his grandson—he called me to do things, and I could sit next to him. And he would hold me, so I could sit and listen to they conversation.

	O:	Was that Bud Thomas? JM:	No, ma’am.

	O:	What Bud was that?



	JM:	Bud Wright. He—Ford. He was my grandma’s brother.



	O:	Did—your grandfather had that store. I want to know if you socialized or did anything with White people in this town.

	JM:	No, ma’am. Unless you were working for them, you didn’t do no whole lot of socializing. But growing up as a teenager, there was a White boy—what’s his name? John Susce, I think it is. He does the news articles. Okay, he used to come and play football and basketball, and he defied the policemans and stuff. They didn’t want him over there, but he’d come out there, because he said in our community, they had another brand of ball. He wasn’t going out there playing with no White boys because they didn’t know how to play.

	O:	Sousa—Susce. That guy? JM:	Yes, ma’am.

	O:	Now, where was he living? Did you know? JM:	I don’t know, actually; I have no clue.

	O:	And when you say “there,” he came to Newtown? JM:	Yeah, he would come out to Newtown.





	O:	Where—to play?



	JM:	In the recreation center.



	O:	Okay. I will have to talk with him about that. That’s very, very interesting. Now, church—Greater Hurst Chapel. I understand that the churches were very, very key in this community. Certainly during the Civil Rights Movement in trying to move people forward. Tell me about church at Greater Hurst.

	MM:	As I grew up, they used to have a lot of meetings at Greater Hurst Chapel.



Greater Hurst Chapel was known to have a lot of community meetings regarding things that needed to be done in the community. Also, they used to have a lot of the NAACP meetings there. Mr. Neil Humphrey was president. My mother was the secretary of the NAACP. And a lot of things that went on in school, that the parents didn’t like that was going on in school? The NAACP handled it. And the meetings would take place at Greater Hurst Chapel. It has always been a stalwart for different things that wasn’t good for the Black people. As you know, AME church started out from the United Methodist Church. So therefore, it has a history of fighting the wrongs done to people. So, that’s about all I can tell you about the church as it was. But there was, when I was a little girl living in the big house that I now reside in, the houses behind me were not there. Except for one—and that was Ms. Culpepper on one side, and then there were other little houses that I think my brother’s godmother, Ms. Susie, stayed somewhere in there. And further down, it was like a lot of trees and swamp area. And some adult was wise enough to go in and—because go through the trees, little kids could go through the trees, and on their way to school, there might be a little





slope where water would build up in when it rained. They would put a board so we could walk through. Or we had to go—either that, or we had to go through Ms. Culpepper’ yard, and go by the Campbell House and go down to Black Bottom to go to school. We had a Black Bottom over here in Newtown, too.

	O:	I’ve heard that; no roads, no paved streets. Tell me about that.



	JM:	Well, we wasn’t good enough for paved streets. Just simple as that; that’s what White folks thought. That’s the way they treated us. Don’t get me wrong, I’m not hating on White folks, because my grandma was Whiter than that man back there. I have no problem. But we was treated like mess.

	MM:	Truth is truth.



	JM:	Okay? And we didn’t have anything—now, my grandfather, that house that she lives in always had wire inside the wall. Mr. Rainey might know why. Tom and Green, Cannonball, Best Forge, and connected to each one of them. That’s what the walls were made out of. I realize the lady next door, her electric wire ran down the wall. We didn’t have electric wire running down the wall. It came out of the hole and went into a plug. I asked my grandmother why our wire wasn’t running down the wall like the wires next door. She said “because the wires were there before they put the town and grew up.” So she was talking about the house was built with electric in it. Our house always had running water. The only house out there had running water at the time, okay? Because we had electric to have a pump. Now, they had a car. His daddy, my nephew sitting over there, wrecked the car down in those same woods by Ms. Culpepper’ house, because he didn’t but a little short road practice. He went out there, tried to mess with it, and the car





rolled down in the bushes. And he got away with it, because my grandmomma loved him to death. But, she brought the electric to the community, as I was saying the other night. Paid for all the telegram posts in downtown—

	O:	Your mom.



	JM:	My granddaddy did. They came down through—it didn’t come down through 23rd Street. Because that right down there where Mr. Rainey’ and them house was, there was water, swamps. Only thing beyond that, they couldn’t put the—so, they brought it down 25th Street, where his house is now. Now, 25th Street, that way it came across the pasture, to bring the electric. He was going to build a house on 33rd and Lockwood Ridge. That’s where he wanted to build his house. But they wouldn’t take the electric, say the generator wasn’t big enough to push the electric that far.

	O:	When you say he brought the electric, are you saying that she went down to the city and said, “I need this”—?

	JM:	The city didn’t control the electricity; she went to FPL. O:	Okay, she went there and asked them to do it.

	JM:	Yes, ma’am.



	O:	To bring electricity to the Newtown community?



	JM:	To the area where she needed our house. She wanted electric equipment in the house that she was building. My uncle came here from Georgia and built the house. Three summers. He would come every one.

	O:	Yours was a notable family, as Reverend—is he a Reverend Rainey? Okay, so Mr. Rainey—said, you were, the Morelands were a notable family in the





community. Is that because they were leaders, who pushed along with Mr. Humphrey to get things done? Or because just like you just said, your mom went down to FPL to ask for electricity, and they had the store on downtown in Sarasota?

	JM:	You had to do things. You had to get around the system. They were very prejudiced, but they would allow you to get around. There were some people who could get some things done, and there’s other people that didn’t. Okay? Because they were nasty. Like I say, he wanted to build a house down Lockwood Ridge; they say they couldn’t push the electric down there. So he had this property, and he built the house there. And my grandfather, he owned a lot of property. Where the downtown is, all this stuff was in his name—deeded in his name. Houses across the street, they used to belong to school teachers, all of that was deeded into his name.

	O:	How did it, did you all sell it?



	JM:	I have no idea, ma’am. My granddaddy was an old man, and I was a young boy, so you asking me stuff I can’t tell you.

	MM:	I do remember that the city and the county was all together at one time—must have been. Because where we lived, we had the, a big place, it looked like a place where you can go do laundry. But I’m told that was where he kept all the rice and the beans and the things that what he ordered for his store, he would order enough for his family, and other people could come and get food like they would come and get the milk. We had chickens, we had ducks, we had roosters; we had hogs. We had a hog pen. We had the smokehouse, where we cured our





own meat. And then, all of the sudden one day, I heard my dad say that they had to move everything because it was no longer allowed to have it there. I guess that’s when we became city limit—in the city? And we had to move all of our meat. I think we moved out in the Talabas area. Now, I do remember that. And we were very active. And my grandmother was very active in speaking her mind. And would tell you what should have been on your mind. And she didn’t hold back with the children, the children’s parents; she disciplined everybody. The one thing that used to make me so ashamed, I would go to school, and you know, in school we’d have these learning things that you had to go to. And we had, they were taking us to the bank to see how the system worked. All the fourth graders and fifth graders were allowed to see how the banking system worked. And evidently, Sarah Bush was downtown taking care of some business, and here, she could spot her granddaughter with all these children, and she lit into us. Lit into us, wanted to know why we were not in school, and what were they doing downtown, and all this, and the teachers had to run up and tell her, “It’s okay, Ms. Bush. We got them. They’re on a trip. We want to show them how the banking system work.” And guess what? That was the bank she was going to. [Laughter] But she was just that way. If you were out of order in front of her house? You got in order. I remember a lady saying that—she was a member of our choir, and I started singing in the choir at Hurst Chapel, and she said she remembered when she was a young girl, she would have to come up to the house. That’s what they called it, “the house.” I had said that if I had to rename it, I would call it the “meeting place.” Because that’s where the people that are now elderly and gone





on, used to tell me they used to meet. And they used to all meet there, and then they’d walk up to the Bamboo Club. Which my father was owning at that time.

So, I got a lot of my history from my brother here, and then, a lot that a lot of people have told me, you know?

	JM:	When the Army Airforce base was out there where the airport is today, they had no place for the Black soldiers to come. And our house was used as the first U.S. home for Black soldiers. Across the streets there, where the church is, they used to park those G.I. trucks. They let them off. A lot of families met there, people that they married and had families, in that house.

	O:	Wow. Remember any names?



	JM:	The Farmers for one. They, most of them moved away. But he came here, and his wife, she was debutante. She was the valedictorian of the class and stuff, and she needed a date. So, my grandma arranged a date for her and Mr. Farmer, and they ended up marrying.

	O:	You mentioned medical treatment in a side barracks from the hospital. JM:	You know this outquarters? They use them a lot.

	O:	Portable—yeah.



	JM:	Okay. That’s the kind of things that we had. O:	That’s where you were born.

	MM:	I’m born, it was on the land of Sarasota Memorial Hospital, but we were—it was barracks for us.

	JM:	We and the other ones, we were not allowed in the physical building. Because we were unfit; that’s what the White folks thought. You know? [Laughter]





	O:	Did you remember Dr. Chenault? JM:	Yes.

	MM:	I remember him, yes.



	O:	What do you—tell me about him.



	MM:	I never went to him, but I just knew of him coming into our area. And because by the time he came, my mother had us under other doctors who would treat us.

That’s all I can remember.



	JM:	Half of the people in Newtown is born by a midwife. O:	And you remember Jetson’s mother was one of those. JM:	His grandmother, yes.

	O:	Grandmother. Okay, I’m going to talk with him later today. But Dr. Chenault died under suspicious circumstances. Do you remember?

	JM:	I have no idea. It’s still suspicious. MM:	As far as we know. Yes.

	O:	Okay. What else would you like to add that I don’t know? Now—



	MM:	I have something, my brother told me that Orange Avenue stopped right where the light was. The rest of that was nothing but cow pasture and swamp area.

They used to get in a lot of trouble going over there, trying to swim. All of that was just undeveloped land and swampy areas. The land right next door to our house. My mom was telling me, she came up to where in New Jersey, where I was giving birth to my first child, and she was telling me some of her history of it. And she said, she had the opportunity but my dad wouldn’t go along with it, to purchase that land. I said, “Well, why Daddy didn’t want it?” She said, “Because it





was full of water, swamp, undeveloped. And he didn’t want to really buy it.” I told Momma, say, “Should’ve bought it!” [Laughter] But, that was the way things were at that time. And all of the area that is deemed Newtown, a lot of the areas were undeveloped.

	O:	Has much changed over the years in your view? MM:	Oh, yes. To me it has.

	JM:	In what way?



	O:	Changed as far as African American people in the town.



	JM:	They changed. The White folks’ mindset changed. What was so sad about the tourists in this town, and when they moved here, they come down here trying to act like the rednecks that was already here, and they were more prejudiced than they were. We had to work for them, so I can tell you what they were.

	O:	You worked for—?



	JM:	White folks. Cutting they yard.



	O:	Do you remember some of the families?



	JM:	Mr. Cookman. Out there on McIntosh Road? Man, my brother and my daddy used to—if you go down and make a right on McIntosh Road off Fruitville, and go down to that development there; my daddy and my brothers cut down all them trees down there. There for Mr. Cookman behind the subdivision. Okay? And stuff that—you know, you had opportunity, but the pay wasn’t that good. But you did have some bread and a meal on the table.

	O:	Do you remember any lynchings going on here at any time? JM:	No, I don’t—





	O:	Not in your, your period. Okay.



	MM:	I do think that the businesses back on Martin Luther King Jr. Way—what is now—they were more Black when I was a little girl. Owned, you know? And, there was a story in our house that one of the families—like, the Joneses who did the barbecue? I don’t know whether anyone in the room can remember when he had places where we could actually sit outside, which is now so popular on Main Street? It was not like that on Main Street, but we could sit outside, and we called him Two-Bone Jones, because that’s what you got on your sandwiches. [Laughter] The barbecue was Two-Bone Jones. But he sold a lot of other things in there, like ice cream, and different other things that—and plates of food. But you could actually sit outside with the umbrellas and all there where the teenagers were—

	JM:	The site is where the Goodwill building is.



	MM:	Yeah. And we used to have fun there. That was a Sunday meeting for the children after we came out of church, and go home and did what we needed to do for Mom and Dad. Later on, we would walk 33rd Street, I believe, and between the drug store and the Jones area.

	JM:	I’ll tell you something: you know, over off of Osprey and 10th Street, that area over there? They got a park over there?

	O:	Mmhm.



	JM:	Okay, coming from Main Street, you come down— O:	Oh yes, the park, sure.

	MM:	A lot of Hispanic people live over there now.





	JM:	Okay, they had just paved all that and did sidewalks—all right?—in [19]63, when Mayor Betz was the mayor of this town. They were doing a feasibility study for Newtown, to give sidewalks and stuff. So, the lady that sent me—Ms. Knuckles, who sent me to college and stuff; I’ll tell you about that in a minute. But she got an audience with Mayor Betz. And he was saying they were spending a hundred and sixty thousand dollars for a feasibility study for Newtown. The same damn thing had been done in this area. So, why we need to redo it—a feasibility study? That’s what I asked him; that’s a waste of money. You know. But somebody was greasing they pockets. That’s what they did, all the time, you see. But we eventually got the doggone sidewalks and streets paved, after that.

	O:	Okay, and tell me about Mrs.—Knuckles?



	JM:	Yes, she was Ms. Nuvenia Knuckles. She was a elementary school teacher. O:	African American?

	JM:	No, ma’am. She was Irish. O:	How did you meet her?

	JM:	Well, she was head of the Tri-Hi-Y and Hi-Y, so she was part of the YMCA. And she had innovated and initiated it local. And we were always interacting with her, and we had a program in December, at Christmas for the Y. I got stabbed outside, fighting, and she took me to the hospital. For one level, folks in the auditorium looked like me. And nobody got up to help me, but a woman that look like him. And everybody in the auditorium, owed my fall and my failing. I fell. One man, I can’t think of his name, but he had a [inaudible 33:17]; he was saying something about he didn’t want that blood all over his shirt. And I’m sitting there,





bleeding like a stuck pig. So, I had three operations. Was at the hospital two and a half months.

	O:	You were about to tell me that Mrs. Knuckles sent you to college. JM:	Yes, she did.

	O:	Tell me about this; how did that come about?



	JM:	Oh, she asked did I want to go to school. Did I want to go to college? Because her daughter was going to FSU. And so what she did, she talked to all her friends, got up money that paid my tuition.

	O:	Where’d you go?



	JM:	FAMU. There was no other place to go. All them other little bitty schools that folks my color go to? Ain’t go. Got to go to FAMU, ain’t that right Ms. Elaine?

	O:	[Laughter] Okay, so what did you study at FAMU? JM:	Engineering and math.

	O:	Okay. And then, came back home.



	JM:	I went to Washington, DC. Transferred to Howard University. And after a year there, I got married, and education just stopped there.

	O:	Started working, doing—



	JM:	Worked at the post office, I became an oceanographer. Traveled all around the world on oceanographic vessels.

	O:	Very interesting. You left your family here to go and make a living?



	JM:	Well, my family was in DC at the time, because I got married. That’s where we were living, in DC. Okay, there.





	O:	In going forward, what do we do? What do we do now, as we look at Newtown’s future?

	JM:	The thing is, we try to educate the kids, and the adults. Because, see, I will tell you, I got a firm belief: integration f-ed up Colored education. Okay? We’re not— [inaudible 35:23] the school? Them teachers didn’t give a damn about them.

Okay? They didn’t learn what the teacher had, that I had, taught me. They didn’t learn that. They weren’t interested. Okay, wasn’t done by mistake. They just weren’t interested in teaching Black kids. Now, they’re trying to get that way. You know, I had a couple of my nephews, like that one over there, his brothers and stuff, they was told—I had a girl to tell me at [inaudible 35:57], and she kept seeing my name, that I should go there, and I don’t go to one person all the time. She said, “Mr. Moreland, are you some kin to the Morelands Tom and Timothy?” I said, “Yes, ma’am.” She say, “You know, when integration started, my parents told us that y’all was dumb and stupid, didn’t know nothing. And we caught hell trying to keep up with them!” You know? She was really saying how right they were. Because that’s what they were fed! So how you going tell your kid that we ain’t got no sense, say what you want? You keep doing that, you get some age, little bit age on you, what you going believe? That this group of people don’t have no sense. They stupid. And that’s the way you going treat them. But they found out different. Because they caught hell trying to keep next to [inaudible 36:50].

	O:	All right, Mr. Moreland. Did you finish telling us, in going forward, what do we do now?





	JM:	What do we do now is, get the kids to—we need to catch up with these kids. We got to do something with them. We can’t allow them to keep doing what they doing, and all this mess; they in trouble. Them little things right there? These things here? My nephew will take it. He come to my house? “All right, hey, hey hey hey—get out of my space with that mess.” You got to stop them from using these things, or everywhere they want to talk. I don’t want to hear your conversation. They all learning how to use them, and these things here make some of us stupid—er, than what we are.

	O:	All right. What about Mrs. Moreland?



	MM:	I think that the system has assisted in not letting our children meet their potential. Number one, from a young adult, I found that a lot of the drugs was put out in the Black community on purpose, so that if they have to destroy a people, destroy the Blacks. But we were also taught—in our family, we were taught that during my dad’s time, the White man said they couldn’t learn. And my father was a very intelligent man. And matter of fact, he also went to the great agricultural school that is now known as Florida A&M, during the time that Mr. Rogers was there. So now, he was well-learned, and he made sure that his children learned. And there was no such thing as coming home with a bad grade. Why? You had to explain yourself. And it had better not be your fault that you got that bad grade. And it wasn’t because you are skipping class, or having fun in class—a lot of our children today do that. They don’t take education seriously like we had to. And I don’t know whether it’s because of their parents or not. but when we were young, most of the businesses on our—on “the Strip,” as I call it, were owned by Blacks.





	JM:	It’s a hundred and twenty businesses on that street.



	MM:	And now, the children of those businesses will come back not interested in being like Mom and Dad. You know? And that is something that was not instilled in us. My generation didn’t keep that. We failed our kids, I think, because we didn’t make them do what my parents made me do.

	JM:	Earlier, you heard me say that integration messed up our education. All right?



We did not do—integration came in, so we just accepted that we could do everything that they did and stuff. We didn’t learn anything much. So you got half of the apple today. You got two kids, you ain’t got but half of the apple—they share. So you now, they got a quarter of the apple. And they got to split that up, because you ain’t have much to offer them. Now, they don’t have but an eighth or a sixteenth of the apple to feed their kids. The knowledge to give their kids. Now, these kids [inaudible 40:53] don’t have anything, because they Momma and Daddy ain’t got a thing to give them. Because we have not given them that.

We’re lost down the line. You know, you have proof of this sitting out here. She can tell you that if you don’t feed the kid something, he ain’t going have nothing to feed his kid.

O:  Well, I’m going to ask that principal right now. Would you tell me who your kids— how many kids you all have, and we’ll end.

JM:  I got one child.



	MM:	I have five, I mother five. O:	Thank you so much.

	JM:	And today my child’ birthday, so let me get off this thing so I can call him.





O:   All right! [Laughter] Thank you, so much.



	JM:	Now, those steps at that park was the steps going up to one of Mr. Rainey’s grandfather’ rooming houses.

O:   The steps at Fred Atkins Park?



JM:  Yes ma’am, those concrete steps. It was right there to that rooming house. Mr. Rainey here, his granddaddy had a thing here and hurt it some kind of way, but those steps was there.

O:   You remember the Rainey family.



	JM:	Yes, ma’am. You know, we all grew up together. And they were in and out of our house, because there was always something going on at Ms. Bushey’s house.

	O:	[Laughter] Got it! [End of interview]





Transcribed by:   Allie Sellers, Fall 2018



	Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, December 13, 2018 Final edit by:	Sandra Romero, November 5, 2020