AAHP 068; Foxworth; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 068 Retha Mae Foxworth African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Matthew Clark on September 5, 2009 48 minutes | 17 pages



Abstract: In this interview conducted at Black Alumni Weekend, University of Florida alumna Retha Mae Foxworth goes in depth about her experiences as a Black student in the 1970s. She describes what it was like for her to navigate the racial environment of UF at that time. She talks also about her classes and studying, as well as the recreational activities that she and her peers engaged in. Ms. Foxworth concludes with her appreciation for UF and the life lessons it taught her.





Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida]



















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 068

Interviewee: Retha Mae Foxworth Interviewer: Matthew Clark

Date: September 5, 2009



	C:	All right. Today is September 5th, 2009. I’m at the Hilton Hotel on the UF campus with Retha Mae Foxworth, who graduated in 1979 from UF, from the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences. Is that correct?

	F:	That’s correct.



	C:	Thank you so much for granting me an interview today, Ms. Foxworth. F:	It’s a pleasure.

	C:	I was actually wondering, since you’re from South Carolina, were you raised in Columbia, South Carolina?

	F:	Until I was eleven.



	C:	Until you were eleven? And then where did you move to? F:	Riviera Beach, Florida.

	C:	Okay. What was your education like growing up?



	F:	Pretty much, I was picked as Miss Mathematics, Miss History. Pretty good. Pretty good.

	C:	So you exceeded well in high school, and all those other things.



	F:	In high school, I went to school and I worked at Sears and Roebuck store. [Laughter] I graduated a year earlier than I was supposed to. I was supposed to come out in 1977. I came out in June 10th, 1976. Spirit of [19]76. Two hundred years of freedom, I think, for the country of America. I entered school right after. I entered the University of Florida. The University of Florida. It’s a “the,” there. [Laughter] All other schools just say University, right? University of Florida says the University of Florida. So, my experience at the University of Florida, it was





good. But I did run into a guy who said to me, he said—he was in my English class, and he said, “Y’all are just like us.” Now, he was Caucasian. And I said, “Yes, we are.” He said, “I thought y’all were like animals, jumping from tree to tree.” I said, “Yes, that’s the way they depict us on television. But no, we’re civilized. We’re not animals. We’re humans.” [Laughter] You know. So, he was shocked to see somebody like me looking the way that I look. My hair was long and stuff. And I guess I didn’t look so bad! [Laughter] And so, he was shocked. And that shocked me that, what—you know, where did he grow up? And what he had been taught about the Black race. But that’s the only problem I ever encountered.

	C:	Was just that one time?



	F:	That one time. Because I used to catch rides with Caucasians, men and women. So, it didn’t really matter to me. Carter was in the White House. So, you know, he was peanut man. [Laughter] And everybody just loved him, Black and White. So, we just got along so well. We had problems, some problems, at the university, but nothing that I can say that was really out of the ordinary. You know, you run into some racial problems, but most of the racial problems came about because of what someone had and you didn’t have, or what someone could do and you couldn’t do. You know, stuff like that.

	C:	Could you give an example?



	F:	Well, I can’t recall this guy’s name, but he was from Miami, Florida. He had a Bug. And see, to the Black man in college, having a Volkswagen was really popular. They would fix them up and everything, and some guys, Caucasian





guys, didn’t like this guy too much, because he did talk. He had a mouth on him. And they beat him up. We had that to happen. That event took place. And so, that’s about it. I don’t remember any other confrontations that took place that we experienced.

	C:	Do you remember when that particular event took place, and do you know if—? F:	Yeah, it was our freshman year.

	C:	Ok. Did the Alligator cover that incident at all, or anything? Was there a lot of tension on campus as a result from that?

	F:	Not a lot, but there was some. Not a lot. We tried to get along. Most Blacks and Whites, we tried to get along.

	C:	So you would say it was a good and positive environment?



	F:	Yes, until about time for Reagan to run for President. [Laughter] Then, things reversed.

	C:	Really?



	F:	Uh-huh.



	C:	How so? How did they reverse?



	F:	Students—he was talking about state rights, and union, and all of that. You know, he was bringing in all of the antebellums type stuff. And that put a damper on the Spirit of [19]76 that Carter was under. People started rebelling. Blacks started going with White more because of what, I guess, the way that he came out.

Because they were close. They were close. They were getting real close. People were liking each other, but there was still a church—I must tell you. It was a church that catered to college students, maybe I shouldn’t say the name.





[Laughter] But they catered to college students by offering food. Because, you know, college students, you don’t have much money. But my best friend, she wanted to marry—she was a Bahamian, and she was real dark in complexion. And she wanted to marry someone from the church. He was a Caucasian, White guy. They were talked out of, not getting married by the people of the church, telling them that they were going to encounter—their kids were going to encounter so much racism that it wasn’t something that they should do. Because it takes tough skin for people to survive in this world that are biracial. So, it hurt her. And I guess it hurt him, too. And she just left, and went to London to be a missionary over there.

	C:	Was this just at the church, or were these two an item on campus, as well?



	F:	Well, yeah. It was at the church as well as campus. They were talking. They were engaged to be married.

	C:	Did they ever receive any hostility on campus that you know of?



	F:	No. Because most people, they kept it to themselves, you know what I’m saying?



It wasn’t real popular yet, but it was growing. It was growing.



	C:	I wanted to ask you if your parents ever attended college before you. Or were you the first in your family to attend college?

	F:	No, I’m the second in my family to attend college. C:	The second. Who attended before you?

	F:	My oldest sister—well, I’m the third. Because my oldest sister and my oldest brother, they went to college also.

	C:	Did they go to UF?





	F:	No. My oldest sister went to Florida Memorial College in Miami. My oldest brother went to Catonsville.

	C:	Where?



	F:	Catonsville College, in Catonsville, Maryland. Then I came here to the University—the University of Florida! [Laughter] I miss the friendship of the Blacks that were here, because we were close. We were real close. We only had each other. There was racism in classes and stuff like that, too, where you would get a B instead of an A. I had that situation, too. Where one teacher, where she wanted to give me a B, and I was getting As on my papers. But she wanted to give me a B grade. So I flooded her office, until she—she wouldn’t give me an A. But she gave me a B+.

	C:	But she still wouldn’t give you an A, despite the fact that you got As on all your papers and assignments?

	F:	Yes. She wouldn’t give me an A. I don’t know why.



	C:	Did that happen frequently, or was that an isolated incident?



	F:	Well, that was kind of isolated. But then, there was another case I can tell you: I forgot about this! [Laughter] When we first got here, we got a guy who came from Alabama. He was an English teacher. And he failed most of—it was a class of Black students, mostly. And most of the Blacks failed the class. And it was a—I think it was, like, five points, credits, you know, something like that. I got a C out of it. Now, you know a C is like getting an F out of a five-credit class. And the other kids got Es. And back then, E meant F. And they got Ds. you know, Ds and Cs was the highest. And Es. So, those were the grades that were given out by





him. He always came to class talking about his little girl. He had like a mental problem, I think. Because he always came to class, he was saying, “Oh, my daughter, she experienced something at school, because of a—.” You know, he would say “a Black person,” but you know how—we knew what he meant. A nigger. “Because of a nigger child,” you know? So, that was an experience. We were allowed to take that class over and get a better grade.

	C:	All the students were allowed to? F:	Mmhm.

	C:	Was this teacher reprimanded in any way?



F:  Well, I didn’t see him after that. All I can say, I didn’t see him after he taught us. I didn’t see him anymore. So he could’ve gotten fired. He could have. I don’t know what happened to him, really, to be honest. But we did go through that.

C:  One of the things you talked about was your friendships here at the university, and how important they were.

F:  Yes. They were very important. I pledged Delta Sigma Theta, a sorority. And we were so close. It was a close organization. And then, my friends; we had a bond that just couldn’t be broken. We lived in Yulee Hall. That was supposed to be the honors dorm. And it was co-ed, but it was supposed to be honors. [Laughter] We just all bonded, even the guys. The guys looked out for us. They respected us.

We were just respectful women of the campus. Those were the days. We had this tape, this record that we would play. And it was by Muhammad Ali, The Greatest Love is to Love Yourself. Every time we would have a problem, we would go get the record player and take this record out, this album—they called





them albums back then. They were real big records. And we’d take it out and play that song. And we’d sing that song. [Laughter] And we would feel better about the situation. So, that got us through school. Dating, and getting—you know, they had one night stands and whatever. They’d come to me because I was like a counselor for my friends. And I was the cook, too. [Laughter] We just got along. We just got along so well, and we hated to depart. I was coming back hoping that I would see—I saw my line sister.

	C:	Your line sister?



	F:	Yeah. We pledged together. Jancie Vinson, we pledged together. She does a lot of things around campus.

	C:	Still today?



	F:	Mmhm, yes. So.



	C:	What kind of activities would you do with your sisters?



	F:	Well, we just all—we’d cook crabs, and the crabs got away. [Laughter] C:	The crabs got away?

	F:	They got away. They were gone. C:	Like, permanently, just ran off?

	F:	No, we had to run behind them and pick them up! [Laughter] It was just crazy stuff like that, you know? We would do stuff like that. We would go and visit other campuses, like FAMU, Bethune-Cookman College. Just stuff like that. And we went out to FAMU, and Dr. Perry, he was the past president of FAMU. And his daughter was going to University of Florida: Kim Perry. And she invited us up.

So, we went out. [Laughter] And one of our friends, she was [inaudible 19:17],





and she came in the next morning. Well, I told them I didn’t want to go out, because I was more of the Christian-minded person. I came in about eleven. And the rest of them went out to party. Okay, and they came in later. Well then, our good friend, she came in the next morning. [Laughter] We had to sneak her into the house. And we thought that Dr. Perry didn’t notice. And he told us, he said— when she came in, and we all went to eat breakfast, he said, “Where have you been?” [Laughter] She was like, “Oh!” Because we sneaked her into the house.

We didn’t want him to know that she had stayed out all night. And so, we sneaked her in, and he just—I mean, by him saying, “Where were you this morning?” And we just laughed. That was so funny. We did stuff like that. We had good times. We had a lot of good times.

	C:	Did you have a lot of freedom on campus? Like, even this incidence, it sounds like it was almost kind of comical that she stayed out all night. Was anybody ever worried about danger or anything like that?

	F:	We always—we were told, “Go two-by-two; never go by yourself at night.” So that’s what we did. We went two-by-two or more. And those who had cars, they would take us around. So, we didn’t run into danger. But we were told, “Be careful.” So, we were. We were careful and didn’t get into stuff like that. No rape or anything like that. We pretty much stuck together.

	C:	What kinds of activities and events would you go to while you were on campus? F:	Well, they went to football games. I didn’t; I went to one football game. [Laughter]

They would go to football games, basketball games, track; you know, stuff like that. But I pretty much stayed at the dorm, and just be a counselor when they’d





come in and something went wrong. [Laughter] So, stuff like that. I wasn’t very active in the athletic arena. I wasn’t very athletic. I wasn’t very supportive with that. Although I had a cousin who played on the junior varsity team. I just pretty much stayed, like I said, in my room; just have something cooked for them, have the record player ready if we had to do that.

	C:	Sounds kind of like you were Mom away from Mom.



	F:	Yeah. Sort of. I was sort of like that to them. [Laughter] They all knew I always kept food in my refrigerator. We had some, they’d rather buy clothes than to buy food, so they knew they could come to Retha and eat. So, that was all right.

Yeah.



	C:	Why did you choose to attend UF?



	F:	My sister came on a Carnegie program. The one that went to Florida Memorial, she came on a Carnegie program. And she did pretty good here. And she was telling me, “Yeah, it’s a pretty good school.” So, I came and visited her, and I liked it. I just liked it.

	C:	So your sister attended UF before going to Florida Memorial?



	F:	No, she came on the Carnegie program. They had a Carnegie program where you could come and get some of your—

	C:	Credits?



	F:	—studies, credits and everything that were not offered at her college. So, they could come and get it here. So they had, they called it the Carnegie Program.

	C:	Did you consider attending a historically Black college instead of UF?





	F:	Well, I wanted to go to Howard University in Washington, D.C., but my mom wanted me to stay here in Florida. I lived about five and a half to six hours away, so she could always drive that. She said, “I can drive that to get to you.” [Laughter] She didn’t want me to go out of state, so that’s why I stayed here.

	C:	Is there any aspect of university life then that you wish was different?



	F:	Let’s see. Yeah. Things, you know—they just had one place where, or a few places I should say, where you could go get food. Meal tickets. You had to go to the student union, or you’d go to this dorm, it’s called—that’s been over thirty years. [Laughter] It was a dorm that they had also a cafeteria where you could go and eat. I think they need more cafeterias into the dorms. You know, so that each dorm has its own cafeteria, and the people can eat there instead of just going to—because it got crowded, and sometimes you’re with people that don’t go to the university. You get mixed in with the visitors, also. And that was okay, but you didn’t really—if you can avoid that, it’s good. Because when you’re a college student, it’s a different world than where you come from. You know, like that show that used to come on?

	C:	Which show?



	F:	Different Worlds. And it would sing a song. “It’s a different world than where you come from.” Bill Cosby. It was a spinoff from Bill Cosby show. That just lets you know that—that was basically, it was—it wasn’t all White, but there were some Whites going to Black colleges. And that was good. I liked that show. Because it showed how Blacks would treat a White person if they come into a all-Black





college, and how Blacks were treated going to an all-White college. You got to see the picture.

	C:	From that show and from your experience, would you say that it was an accurate portrayal?

	F:	I think so. I think it was.



	C:	What kind of issues did the show talk about?



	F:	Well, they didn’t really come out with the race issue. It was more like the differences in how we look at things. We may look at something and say, “Oh, you shouldn’t do that.” And it showed how maybe a White person would look at it and say, “It’s okay.” [Laughter] You know what I’m saying? It just showed differences in the races. That, I thought, was just like The Cosby Show. It was showing that Blacks could learn. They could be doctors, lawyers. They could go to college and everything. They were also showing the reality that Blacks, we do have some that goof off. Then they get reprimanded, and they get back on track. So. Stuff like that. We had this show—now, when I went to the University of Florida, they had to teach a show about Luke and Laura. This was—what was the name of the show? Another World, I think it was. Another World. Luke and Laura. Now, Luke raped Laura. Then, she fell in love with him. She was married to someone else; I think Scottie, or somebody she had married. Then, they went travelling on a motorcycle. [Laughter] And they traveled through the country. This show had Blacks and Whites watching it. It was just so popular that the teachers couldn’t keep the students in class. So, they started a class—to keep students in class, they just started a class of Luke and Laura.





	C:	About the show?



	F:	About the show. In order to keep them, because when that show come on, three o’clock? Everybody left. They wouldn’t go to class. They’d just stay in the dorm and be in the lobby, or in their room if they had a TV, watching it. We were glued to it.

	C:	Would Black and White students talk together about the show? Was it kind of a point to come together?

	F:	I don’t know. I think we were still kind of separate. Separated. We had our conversation about it, they had their own. I also came through Roots. Roots had came out in [19]77, I think. Now that, that was something. That didn’t really put a damper on our relationship, but it did open up our eyes. Yeah. It was a eye- opener to our roots, you know, our background, as well as how we were treated and how our ancestors were treated.

	C:	You talk about Roots and these shows, and kind of the Spirit of [19]76. How did these kind of national events, and programs, and cultural things, how did they play into campus life and race relations on campus?

	F:	Well, people started—I don’t think we had any real race issues on campus. But within the community, we started pulling together. Blacks started pulling together more. That was something. That was like in the [19]60s, for civil rights. It was something like that. We started coming together. Because we realized that even if you could pass for White, that that one tenth of Black blood, you were called a Black person. So I think that everybody was realizing again in my generation because, in the [19]60s, I came through a little of it. I was born in [19]59. I came





through a little bit. But didn’t understand it. I didn’t know why we only could get chocolate ice cream and not vanilla. [Laughter] You know what I’m saying? It brought us together, Roots. Roots was an eye opener. It really was, to appreciate our Black heritage.

	C:	Was there an awareness, an appreciation for your generation at UF, and that a lot of you were first generation college students?

	F:	Like I said, it kind of made us more cohesive, you know? Made us not really look at each other as light-skinned, dark-skinned. You know what I’m saying? We started looking at each other as Black Americans. That’s what happened with it. It made us start appreciating the color we had, whether it was your skin—we used to call them “red bones,” “yellow,” stuff like that. It made us start appreciating who we were, no matter what shade of blackness we were. We started appreciating whatever shade you were. That was something. [Laughter]

	C:	Were you familiar with the Gainesville community outside of campus at all?



	F:	Somewhat. I went to the hair dresser, and we had a favorite place to go and get barbecue. It was on 5th Avenue. You don’t go there at night, because it was kind of rough at night. They’d tell you “Don’t go there at night, now! Go during the day if you’re going to get something done.” Now we got, as I must say, the church that I am affiliated with now is on 5th Avenue. [Laughter] And so, I go there at night. So, yeah.

	C:	If you had the ear of the UF administration today, is there anything that you would tell them about making UF a more inclusive, more cohesive environment?





	F:	Well, the way I see it, the race problem, is that you’ve got to look at it as, God did that. Because you’re Johnny, and here is Donald over here. Now, if he had made Johnny just like Donald, when He says—you know? He wouldn’t be able to tell the difference between Donald and John. You see what I’m saying? So, I look at it as God’s artwork. That’s His beautiful artwork to make us different. Your skin, my skin, to make us look that way. That was His beautiful artwork that He did. He didn’t give me pinched nose, He didn’t give me—you know? [Laughter] But He gave me what he wanted Retha to have, and He knows me by how I look. Not by how, you know, some other person—. But He knows me by how I look. So it helps you to appreciate yourself to not look at colors and differences of people, but just appreciate who you are. I think they need to really teach courses about that.

	C:	So, to include that in the curriculum and in studies? F:	Yeah.

	C:	Okay. Is there anything else that you would like to include in this interview?



Anything else you’d like to mention?



	F:	Oh, let’s see. [Laughter] Experiences. I think there was a doctor, Dr. Regalado. Now, when I came here, I was a virgin, when I came to the University of Florida. [Laughter] And I didn’t know anything about anything. So, he took me on.

Because I was sickly. I had a nervous stomach. I had, like—they weren’t ulcers, but they could become stomach ulcers, and that was something my dad had. So, I had to be careful about that. And my mom had it too. So, both parents having stomach ulcers, I had to be careful. So what happened was, I had to be in the





infirmary, and go over to Shands Teaching Hospital to be treated, to be checked out, really. They didn’t treat me, but they were doing the exploratory exams. And doing so, I was just so—now, give me your question again. Because I—“anything I want to add.”

	C:	Is there anything you want to add?



	F:	Okay. Now, that experience put me to the point where I was, I ran into Dr.



Regalado. And what he did, he—knowing that I’m a virgin and everything, he took me like a daughter. He told me that I would give him experience with his own kids when they grow up. So he had me to go to classes about sex. I think that should be like a requirement, really. Because it taught me to make good decisions. If you’re going to do it, be educated. Know how to prevent pregnancy, STD. You know what I’m saying? All of these things, instead of just going with the emotions. Have the educational background for it. By me going to the classes and everything, and seeing what was offered, I just decided to wait and make my own decision when I wanted to. Now, high school really won’t teach you that. [Laughter] You know what I’m saying? They’ll show you the reproductive cycles and all that kind of stuff, but when you get to college, I think, you’re away from your parental—how should I say, parental—

	C:	Control?



	F:	—control. [Laughter] And you’re on your own. This is where you are making your own decisions. You should be well-educated about what the subject is about before—because you can’t make good decisions when you don’t know about the situation. So, I think that would be something to add to the curriculum.





	C:	Okay. Is there anything else that you’d like to add about your experiences at UF, just for the purposes of the interview?

	F:	My experiences at UF.



	C:	Any other reflections you’d like to share in this interview?



	F:	Well, it was good. All in all, if I had not come here, I think I would not have learned to be assertive and not aggressive. You know what I’m saying? Learning that people are different. People do things differently. Accept people as they really are, you know what I’m saying? And that’s something that’s not easy to do. It’s not easy to accept people as they are.

	C:	Is that something you learned from UF, or before UF? Or both?



	F:	I learned this through after UF. [Laughter] To accept people as they really are. Be a true friend. If you can’t be a true friend to others—just don’t make friendships that you know you do not condone what they’re doing. Get with people that you sense, and feel, and represent the same things. You know what I’m saying?

Because, if not, you’re in a—I’m not saying clique it. You know, clique. You shouldn’t get in a clique, but try to be a higher achiever. That’s what I always think you should be: an example for others. You know, don’t be just a follower. Be a follower, you know, because in some cases it’s better to be a follower because you don’t know something. Be a follower, if you want to find out about that particular thing or whatever. But try to be an example. Let your life be an example for someone else to follow. That’s what I leave. Those are my final words. [Laughter]

	C:	Thank you so much for the interview. I appreciate it.





	F:	All right. I did too. [Laughter] [End of interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, August 7, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 18, 2019