AAHP 245; Williams; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 245 Gwendolyn Williams African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Andre Everette on January 15, 2012

40 minutes | 18 pages



Abstract: Gwendolyn Williams was born in 1948 in Fort White, Florida, part of Columbia County, into a family of seventeen children. Williams talks about her home life, where she didn’t feel like life was a struggle even though her family was on welfare. Her father was a sharecropper and her mother was a seamstress, and she and her siblings worked summers in the fields picking cotton and tobacco. She was talks about how she was taught the value of hard work, treating people how you would want to be treated, and Church life. Williams also discusses her education, and her pride in Black teachers that were determined to teach even though they were given textbooks with missing pages. She also talks about her family, and how through a culture of hard work, she and her children became successful. However, she still faced discrimination in her work for the VA hospital. Finally, she ends on a discussion about “hidden racism”, and argues that even though Barack Obama became president, discrimination still legitimately affects Black people, and that the only way to combat it is to have a strong belief in God and do the right thing.





Keyword: [African American History; Segregation; Columbia County, Florida; Education]





























For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 245

Interviewer: Andre Everette Interviewee: Gwendolyn Williams Date: January 15, 2012



	E:	Its January 15, 2012 my name is Andre Everette. I’m here at the Columbia County Chapter of the NAACP Martin Luther King Jr. Day of Observance. I’m speaking with—

	W:	Gwendolyn Williams.



	E:	Mrs. Williams, can you tell me when you were born?



	W:	I was born August 19, 1948 in Columbia County in the small town of Fort White, Florida.

	E:	What is your mother’s name?



	W:	My mother name was Carrie Griffin. E:	Where was she from?

	W:	She was from Valdosta, Georgia. E:	And your father’s name?

	W:	My father’s name was Calvin Griffin and he was from Leesburg, Florida. E:	How did the two of them meet?

	W:	Somehow I was told when I was younger ‘cause my mom and dad died. Well, actually my dad died while I was young. I was told from my older siblings that they met somewhere at a church. I believe the church was in Leesburg, Florida. My mom was playing a piano and that’s what attracted her to my dad. I think she was like thirteen when they married. Back then it didn’t matter how old you were you could get married. They married and they had twenty children, I’m the nineteenth child. Of those twenty children, sixteen-five died at birth, one set of





twins. They adopted one girl along with my age when we were three weeks old. They raised sixteen children and there are seven of us living now.

	E:	Let’s step back a little bit. Can you tell me about your grandparents?



	W:	I did not know them. I didn’t know my grandparents. My grandparents, they died when I was a baby. I never knew—and that which was my dad’s parents. My mom’s parent’s, I never knew them.

	E:	So, tell me a little bit about home life growing up.



	W:	Home life was, at the time it really didn’t seem like a struggle even though we was on welfare. We ate the commodity food because it was so many of us. My dad was a farmer. He farmed for this White rich family in Fort White, Florida. And therefore, how we ate was we planted vegetables and when he would kill hogs or cows for them, of course back then we were—they gave us the hog feet, hog head, neck bones, and the chitterlings. That was the meat we had; if we got bacon that was a luxury to us. We was raised up very very poor but my mother was a seamstress. We had plenty of clothes, plenty of food to eat. We had a house but I was like all the girls had to sleep—we had one bedroom for all of the girls and one bedroom for all of the boys. So therefore, we had to share beds.

With heat—with the heater—the wood heater, we had to go out and cut our own wood. We had to work every summer in the fields—tobacco and pick cotton to make a living; whatever we could do in the fields to make a living because we helped our mother and father to be a breadwinner because my father did not make any money being a farmer. I can’t remember what he made a week but it wasn’t obviously that much because it couldn’t feed us nor could it pay the





electric bill. So therefore, the children—My older sisters and brothers did not graduate, all of them, from school. Myself and about five of my younger siblings we happened to graduate from high school, but the oldest ones didn’t. They had to come out of school to work and to help take care of the younger siblings. They were not able to get a high school diploma but they were all successful. All of us—were able to—when we graduated from high school, we married, and all of us own property and homes. We all were very successful that didn’t stop us. My sister next to the oldest one was able to go to college. Now, how she went to college I can’t remember how my mom and dad was able to afford to send her to college but she was a school teacher. She’s the second to the oldest out of twenty heads. But she was the second child and she finished college. My oldest sister I think she went as far as the eighth or ninth grade. My older brothers all had to come out of school to work in the tobacco fields or cotton fields or potato, pick peas or whatever they had to do to help support us. The younger heads graduated from high school as a result of the older siblings helping my mom and dad to take care of us. So, it was a struggle. It was a struggle but we were very close.

	E:	What were some of the values taught to you as a little girl growing up?



	W:	Work. Work hard. If you on the job for eight hours of work, you work eight hours to get an eight hour pay. Don’t steal. Don’t take from nobody. Try to live the best way you can. Be honest. Go to church. We were raised up in the church. My daddy was a deacon. We were in church every Sunday including all through the week. We went to church at night. You go to church. Treat everybody right. Be a





good Christian. All of the right things in life that we were supposed to do we were raised up like that. To respect your older people no matter what. Don’t talk back to them. Be kind. Say yes ma’am and no ma’am. To just love—have respect for the older people and love one another.

	E:	Can you describe your neighborhood for me?



	W:	The neighborhood was great. Our house and I don’t know why, our was the house to come to. Everyone would come to our house because my mother always had food for us. My mother had nine girls and the rest of them boys and she did not let us go spend the night with anybody else. For some reason the kids at school liked the way we dressed and the way we looked. Even though we were poor my mother made our clothes, like I say. They didn’t have clothes like we had not because we had money but because my mother made them and they would come to our house. I remember one Sunday after church, ‘cause we went to church every Sunday, we had a baseball game in Fort White. All the kids would come from church come to our house to eat and play either softball, shoot marbles, or play hop scotch. We would have a house full of children. I don’t know why I think it’s because I guess it’s because my mother and father instilled good values in us and they just liked to be around us. Even the kids in high school they would come to the house every Friday night or every evening. My mom would not let us go to their house, for the simple reason she would not let us spend the night. They would always ask my mom could they stay with us. She would let some of the girls spend the night but not all the time.

	E:	What about early education. What memories do you have about school?





	W:	I had a very good education. I graduated from Richardson High School. All of my teachers were Black. They were very dedicated and they instilled in us what we needed to know. I remember when we were going to school the books we had were used and the pages were torn out. We got second hand books from the White schools. They were passed down to us, page was missing, but the Black teachers were able to teach to us from those books. I got a good education in high school. I loved going to school. I never missed a day. The teachers were very dedicated they saw to it that you get your education. We were clean. I remember Ms. Pearson in P.E. she used to brag about the girls from Fort White. Our gym shorts was clean, our tennis was white and starched, our uniforms were starched and ironed. They would always brag on the girls from Fort White. I had a good high school and elementary time in school.

	E:	What elementary school did you attend?



	W:	Fort White Elementary. I attended Fort White Elementary up until eighth grade. Then you had to be bused up to Lake City. We caught the bus about five o’clock in the morning to catch the bus to Lake City to come to the middle school and then the high school.

	E:	Your elementary school, was it an all-Black school?



	W:	Yes it was all Black. I finished in 1966. Richardson did not integrate, I believe, until about 1969; so all of my classes was all Black. Now, when I was a senior some of my classmates if they mother taught at Columbia High they were able to go to that high school. I think it was like three of my classmates was able to go to an all White school, but I graduated from Richardson and I’m glad that I did. I had





a good foundation and I don’t regret not anything about it. Not at all. In [19]65 I met my husband now and we got married the next month I graduated from high school. I started at the VA the next year which is [19]67 and I’m still working at the VA. After I started working in [19]67, I [started] going part-time to the college out here at the Lake City Community College part-time and working full-time at the VA. I’m still presently working at the VA in accounting.

	E:	I see talking about your husband, it made you smile. We’ll come back to those memories.

	W:	Making me smile? [Laughter] ‘Cause I remember him.



	E:	Back to high school. What was a typical Friday night like for you?



	W:	Friday night was typical, outside with a weenie roast; weenie hot dogs and marshmallows. We made a bonfire and roasted hot dogs and marshmallows on a hanger to eat. Just laughing and talking, playing hop scotch and just having a good time. At some time in high school when I was a junior in high school—I met my husband when I was a sophomore. In junior high school, my husband. I met him at the hospital. When my mother was in the hospital he was in the hospital.

He didn’t start coming to see me to the house; he came and asked my mother for company until I was a senior in high school. Then he would come to see me on Friday nights. We would go to the drive-in theatres. Back then you had drive-in theater; you sit in the car and look at the movies. I don’t know whether they have those now.

	E:	Yeah I think they still have a few.





	W:	They still do? I don’t know where they at, but anyway, we used to go to the movies. When he comes over at night, his mama and her boyfriend would put him off because they lived up here. They would come back for him. We would walk down to the church and we played softball. The drive-in theatre was not very far from us. We would go with my brother and his girlfriend to the drive-in theatre in their car. So it was a typical Friday night. Before I met him on Friday nights it was a weenie roast with marshmallows and playing softball, hop scotch, and shooting marbles.

	E:	You mentioned asking for company. I’m not familiar with that phrase. W:	Oh really?

	E:	I don’t think we do that anymore. W:	I know you don’t!

	E:	Could you explain that?



	W:	Yes, my husband. Back then, before a boy come to see a girl, they asked permission from her parents. I remember Ronald coming and asking my mom. Even though I had a dad, you could get pass my dad but not my mom. Usually it’s the opposite. My mother was in her bedroom and he went in. He was somewhat nervous and he said, “Ms. Carrie, I come to ask permission to see your daughter, Gwen.” He was so nervous. She reluctantly told him, “Does Gwen know you?” He said, “Yes ma’am.” [Laughter]. He was so scared. She said yeah I guess so, but I’ll have to ask Gwen about it. He left and went home. She asked me Gwen do you know this boy Ronald. I said, well I met him in the waiting room whenever we came to see you in the hospital. I said but I don’t really like him





because I wasn’t really into dating and all. I was still climbing trees; I was not really a tomboy but climbing trees and playing. I still wasn’t into courting and dating. He was very persistent. He kept on until he got my attention. But yeah you had to ask permission to date a girl. You had to ask they parents.

	E:	So you did things a little differently back then. W:	Yes they did.

	E:	What about sports teams?



	W:	Sports teams . . . sports, we played basketball. I was a cheerleader in high school. My mother made us a little cheerleading outfit. The main sport was basketball. Softball and basketball was the favorite sports. The most sports that was done back then. They did other things but those were the two main ones.

	E:	Who was the big rival team?



	W:	For basketball? In high school it was the Richardson Wolves. My older sister played on that basketball team, but I was one of the cheerleaders. Now for softball we didn’t really have a name, we just gathered up a team. The softball field was behind the church. It’s still active now. They still play on that field now in Fort White.

	E:	As far as your high school teachers what did they encourage you all to do after high school?

	W:	Go to college, get your degree, and get a good job. Don’t stop here. They instilled in us the tools that we need in order to go to college. They instilled in us that after you graduated from high school you go to college and you get a good job. You respect your adults and you respect each other.





	E:	What were some of the colleges that students were looking at that time? W:	At that time it was FAMU, the Tallahassee FAMU and the one in Daytona. E:	Bethune.

	W:	Yeah, Bethune Cookman. Those were the two that I remember that students were looking at: FAMU Rattlers and Daytona.

[Florida Agriculture and Mechanical University, who holds the nation’s largest student enrollment and Bethune-Cookman College are two the first Historically Black Colleges in America].

Back then, I don’t know if they were allowing Blacks to attend the other colleges. If they were going that mean their parents must have had some type of prestige to some of the other faculty members there that they could get their children in there. I didn’t have that luxury.

	E:	Growing up was that area integrated in general or was it more like Blacks stayed on their side of town?

	W:	That’s exactly what it was. But in the neighborhood that I was raised up in we were the only Black family. We lived in a neighborhood that belonged to the White man my father farmed for. He allowed us to build a house and for all of us to be raised up on that property and in that house. After everyone graduated from college, my mom and father dead, so we just moved away. We were the only Black family where I was raised up. I was raised up around all Whites.

	E:	How did that work out growing up? Did your parents caution you about anything? W:	They really didn’t. My mother and father. . . they didn’t—I don’t remember the

Black and White issues brought up. I really don’t. Because the White people just





like many Black people came over to our house. I don’t know what attracted them, I really don’t. We didn’t have no money and we didn’t have a fancy house. Definitely didn’t have a car because we had a mule and wagon. Later on we got a car. The White people that we were neighbors to, they were very good to us. But then on the other side of the tracks, where the other White people lived, I heard they hated Blacks. I was never subjected to any race issues in the area where we were living. I really didn’t and we were the only Blacks. I guess it’s because we stayed in our place. We didn’t bother them. My brother didn’t try to like the White girls and all of that. We stayed to our house. My mother would iron for some of the White people. We stayed in our place and we didn’t give them any problems and they didn’t give us any problems.

	E:	Now onto talking about your husband. How did that work out that you got married a month after high school?

	W:	I got married a month out of high school. I started working at the VA and I started college. Not all of these things happened at once but that was the stages that they came—very close to each other, the stages. Then I got pregnant with my first daughter, my oldest child Quinetta. My husband was a contractor. He was working with another general contractor so he was hired under him. I was working at the VA and then I got pregnant with the second child, three years later. By then, I was still going part-time at the college and working full-time.

Seven years later I got pregnant with my son. Now all of my children are grown. I got six grand-children and one great-grand. But my husband was a general contractor—I don’t know what year. . . all of my kids were small. . .when he got





elected into County Commissioner. He’s County Commissioner now. The gentleman with that long blue coat you saw. Did he have on a hat; the boots? That’s my husband. He got elected when my children was like six and seven years old. He’s been County Commission for twenty-eight years. We’ve had a good year. He stopped working for the general contractor and got a business of his own, Ron Williams Construction. He’s now retired off of that. He’s very successful in his business and we’ve been successful. We’re truly blessed by God. I was raised up in the church and he was too. So, I think that because we were connected to Jesus it brought us through a lot of toils and then still taking us through a lot of toils and tribulations. My husband was like six years older than

I. I remember when he came to ask my mother could he come see me. My brother said you don’t want that boy because he’s a gigolo. I said what’s a gigolo? He got other girls. I said oh well I’m not too interested in him. But he kept after me until he got my attention. I laugh at him now. I say Ronald you ran me down until you got me. I was not paying him any attention, I wasn’t. We’ve had a successful marriage, lot of ups and downs. We’ve been married for forty odd years and we’re still together. We’re very happy. We have three children and six grand kids and one great grand. My daughter who is the oldest, she has a son that graduated from Florida Southern. He lives in Tampa and he works at the Pasco County Courthouse. He has a major in Criminology and a minor in Physical Education. I have a son that has graduated from the service. He has three children and his oldest child is in the Navy. She’s in the Navy and stationed in California. My youngest son is a supervisor for the city of Lake City. So all of





our children are very successful; they are good kids. We never had to go get them out of jail, neither one of them. They hardworking kids. We instilled in them what was instilled in us; hard work. You don’t beg nobody for nothing. You get a place of your own. You have money of your own. They all have nice homes.

They all have their own jobs. They’re all very good, very successful children. I’m very proud of my kids. They are not perfect kids, but they are good kids. My oldest son is a minister, he’s a bishop. He retired from the service marine corps and he has a church. He has a nice, huge church now; a successful church.

Bishop—he and his wife. He married someone. He married a girl he met in the service and they have three children, two boys and a daughter. My younger son has two boys. My daughter has a son, that’s the one that graduated from Florida Southern and he’s doing very well. So we have a very good family, very loving family, my children and I. We’re very close. I had my children when I was younger and I feel like they’re sisters and brothers because I grew up with them so to say. I’m just a few years older than them. I’m very close to my children. I love my children. I love my grandchildren. I love my family.

	E:	Being that you’re pretty much a long term resident of the area in general, what are some of the changes that you’ve noticed over the years?

	W:	With the city of Lake City? There is better opportunities for Blacks. They have not, because they probably don’t want it. Careers are open widely for them. The sky is the limit. I taught my children that, don’t let nobody tell you that you can’t do nothing. Make a liar out of them in spite of doing that. That’s the way I was raised up to. In spite of what they say you do better. God said that you can have





anything that you want as long as you bless and love him. The fields are wide open for Blacks. They can go to college—there’s money out there—they can go to college and get any degree they want to get. The integration is here for us, but we haven’t quite made it yet there, completely. There’s still discrimination. I suffer discrimination on my job every day since I’ve been with the VA. It’s the just the little things I’ve experienced. No matter how hard you work or what position you in, you still not going to make as much as they make. That makes me feel bad sometime. If they put a Black person in a position and that Black person has years of experience in what she or he does in a position with White only, you have to work ten times as hard as they work and I experience that on my job. No matter how hard you work you have to do it better and much faster than them and no matter how hard you work, you’re not gonna make as much money as them. There’s still some hidden racism today. Even though discrimination is against the law, there’s still discrimination. I did with it every day. I have been dealing with it since I been there. You know that you have to have a strong foundation in God to make it through. God said that you are the head and not the tail. God said that promotion doesn’t come from the south, the east, nor the west. He is the judge. He put us down one and set us up another. But you have to be in a position for him to be like that. You have to be under God’s covenant in order for him to do it. He will bless you if you’re going through some suffering. There are opportunities out there that are better than when I was coming up. But we haven’t quite made it yet. I guess we’ll see the end results when we all go to heaven. But you have to be encouraged. You have to—don’t fall down and be





discouraged. You have to keep looking to God. He does bless you. Like Russell said God blesses you even when we’re not qualified to do the position he blesses you with jobs. He blesses you because he looks at the heart and not the outward opinion. That’s what keeps me going. There mere fact that God is such a wonderful God and awesome God that he will bless you but you got to do the right thing. Don’t steal nothing; do the right thing. In a situation you ask what would Jesus do? That’s what I instilled in children today. We have better opportunities, but you have to fight for them. You have to literally fight for them.

You have to be ten times better than them. That is sad and that lets me know we haven’t quite made it yet. My grandson he graduated from Florida Southern but he had to stick his finger to the ground and board it. He had five years of college. If you know Florida Southern College then you know that’s a private college and it’s not very many Blacks that go there. It was hard, but he’s pretty smart. He never did flunk a grade. He probably didn’t recognize it because today’s kids their mind on something else. Plus he was on the basketball team. I know he went through some struggles, but he made it. It is better opportunities for us. I don’t think some of the Blacks today it’s so much easier for them today than when I was coming up. I try to give my children all that I didn’t get. I try to prepare my kids because I want them to be better than what I was; to go further than I did. All three of my children, I don’t have any disappointments with their success. Things are better but we haven’t quite made it yet. But because of God and who he is if you don’t have him you will fall. Because of my Christian background I’m so glad I found Jesus at an early age. I have not been on the Christian road steady all my





life. I get off and get back on. But because of God and who he is he accepts you back into the family of God. Now, I just live my life for Christ. He’s all the world to me. He has blessed me in so many ways. If he doesn’t bless me no more he’s already done enough.

	E:	You mentioned that now there are more opportunities for Blacks, your husband was able to become a commissioner, now with the election of the first Black president some would argue that we live in a post racial society. Do you think the NAACP is still relevant in 2012?

	W:	Yes it is. Discrimination is still there. President Obama, he’s in office and I must admit the Blacks not who put him in office. Who put him in office was the majority of White people. If you look at where he got his votes from it wasn’t a vast majority of Blacks. Some Blacks voted for him now, I’m not saying that no Blacks voted for him, but the majority that voted for him to be in office. There are some that spoke out for him. There are some that voted for him and didn’t say anything that’s how some people do. One thing about voting, you don’t have to share with nobody who you vote for. But with President Obama in office, of course he’s going to need Black votes especially during this next election. I believe that he’s going to get back in because he was destined to get in. It speaks it in the bible.

He was destined to get in. When I first heard him I said he going to be president. Without a shadow of a doubt I knew it. It was the right timing, right place, and he was the right man for the job; even though they give him hell. You see how much hell he takes being a Black man. Regardless of what he does it’s still not good enough. They still find faults with him. They blame the economy on him. He’s not





responsible. That’s a mess Bush did. He’s not responsible for the way the economy like it is and it’s certainly going have to take him more than four years to straighten it out. They wanted him to straighten it out the first year he was in there. If you knew anything about politics you know that’s not possible. It’s not possible for no man to straighten out the mess that Bush left. President Obama is a good man. He’s a fair man because he’s a man working for all of the people regardless of the race. He doesn’t see color. Since his dad was Black they can’t see the half of him that’s White. The mere fact that his dad was Black they can’t stand him. Simply because he is Black. Simply because of the color he is not how much knowledge he has. The man is an attorney his wife is an attorney. Not because of his degree but because his skin is Black, they don’t like him. That’s what disturbs me. You know when you’re talking to someone they don’t even hear what you’re saying. They’re looking at you because they don’t like you because of the color that you are. Not that you not saying the right thing, but because of the color you are. He catch hell because of the color he is. Simply for that, no matter how smart he is. He is the smartest president I know. He doesn’t talk flap. He talks intelligent. When he speaks he say something. He is for everybody. They’re trying to dig up everything they can on him and they can’t find anything. My husband suffers the same thing. I was just telling Ronald the other night, every time he runs for election they gang up six or seven people to run against him. They know that he’s a good commissioner. Everybody be wanting Ronald to be their county commissioner because he’s good. Know the reason they say? The White people—what they do they pay some —I started to say a





bad word for Blacks—unintelligent Black person to run against him. Somebody who can’t speak, can’t read to run against him just to split up the votes because they want him out. They say well he needs to retire or He knows too much or he has too much power that’s their word. He has too much power. What do you think about the Supervisor of Elections that was in there for over forty years? The Tax Collector that retired three years ago that had thirty plus years there? What you think about the White people that was there thirty? They never say anything about that. But my husband, oh he’s been in there too long because he has too much power. Why can’t he retire like your fellow brother here retired? Why can’t he get a good retirement like this White woman or White man here? So what they do is they will pay—these are rednecks—go to this Black person who’s kind of unintelligent to run against him and split the vote. But none of them has been able to beat him. They can’t get him. They’ve tried every trick in the book but they can’t get him. I say Ronald it’s because when God is for you, you might as well close the door and go home. You ain’t got to worry when God is for you. When you’re doing the right thing you don’t have to worry. The same with Obama; look how many Republicans they try to come up with to beat him. No of ‘em. All of them have so much baggage that if you put it in a sack it fall out. [Laughter].

They’re so crazy and they don’t even have a platform. They’re trying to get him out, simply because he’s Black. That’s all. Not how much he know, simply because he Black.

	E:	Well Mrs. Williams it has truly been a pleasure speaking with you hearing your story. Those are all the questions that I have for you. I will give you this





opportunity to share any final thoughts any final words that you have and then that will conclude the interview.

	W:	The only thing I want to say to you is that the sky is the limit. Reach and get all that you can get. Don’t be second class be first class and always put God first. Always put God first and you will be successful. No matter whom you’re standing by a Black man or White man, it doesn’t matter, you are somebody. You don’t allow anyone to tell you nothing less. I am just very grateful for who I am in Christ and for what God has allowed me to become. I don’t have a whole lot of money but I do have peace in God. I don’t go out and start trouble. I’m a peacemaker. I try to do the right thing. I instilled in my children and grandkids to do the right thing and you won’t have a problem. So good luck to you.

[End of Interview]





	Audit edited by:	Aldreka J Everett



	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 21, 2019