AAHP 772; Moore-Bradshaw; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 772 Bessie Moore-Bradshaw Interviewed by Sebastiano Cocco on February 28, 2019

28 minutes | 14 pages



Abstract:

Bessie Bradshaw is a member of the American Legion Posts Unit 193 in Pensacola, Florida. This organization is rooted in Americanism, Veterans services and community outreach. Throughout the interview, Bradshaw explains the mission of American Legions and how they have made major contributions to politics, education and the military. Pensacola, Florida arguably has the highest concentration of U.S. veterans in the world, with three military bases. Bradshaw and other members of the American Legion Post take great pride in serving others over self because they believe in paving the way forward.



Keywords: [Americanism, Veteran, Military, Education, Youth, Community, Girl State, Tallahassee; Pensacola, Florida; June 5, 1971,]



AAHP 772

Interviewee: Bessie Moore-Bradshaw Interviewer: Sebastiano Cocco

Date: February 28, 2019



	C:	Today is February the 28th, and I am here with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program in Pensacola, and I’m here with…

	B:	Bessie Moore-Bradshaw.



	C:	Good morning ma’am, it’s nice to be here today doing this interview. So, just to start with, when and where were you born?

	B:	Pensacola, Florida, July 26th.



	C:	Alright, and where you born in a hospital? Were you born at home? B:	Hospital.

	C:	In a hospital?



	B:	[inaudible 00:35-00.36] of Angels. C:	Okay, is that in town?

	B:	Pensacola, Florida.



	C:	Mhmm okay, and did you grow up in the area? B:	Yes.

	C:	Was there a specific neighborhood? B:	Eastside.

	C:	Eastside of Pensacola? B:	Yes, mhmm.

	C:	And what about your school? Elementary, middle school?



	B:	Elementary school was right around the corner from the house where I lived [laughs]. JV Pickings School, and Washington High School. I went to PJC, UWF,





and the National Institution of Government [inaudible 01:06-01:07]. I became a certified public purchaser and buyer.

C:   Wow, that was by middle school time?



	B:	No, [laughs] that was where I ended up. I started at JV Pickings and then I ended up there.

	C:	Oh, interesting. So, this is like uh… what about the high school. Were the high schools like walking distance.

	B:	Yeah, Booker T. Washington yes. C:	Oh wow, that’s a big deal.

B:  Mhmm. At that time, it has moved presently. C:  Is it still named after Booker T. Washington? B:  Mhmm, Booker T. Washington High School. 2I:  What was it like growing up here?

B:  It’s actually no better place. I enjoyed home. I enjoyed my family life. It was great here.

2I:   What was your family life like?



	B:	[inaudible 01:53]. My family life was a very very happy life. My family was a very close knitted family. Down from my grandparents all the way down to my generation, our siblings. So, it’s a great place. Lot of interesting places here to go, and things to see in Pensacola, Florida.

	2I:	Mhmm.



	C:	That’s when the city was a little different back then?





B:  [inaudible 2:18]. Much different back then, but yes, yes. Things have changed so much. People. Times. But it’s a good place, you know.

C:  I hear a lot of time when I look back in history, it seems that there used to be a stronger folk as in like— especially like farm working or in general, things were more rural. Is there more of an attachment to the land?

	B:	We don’t have a lot of farm here in this area? This is more like the city party. The county is North of Pensacola where they did a lot of farming etcetera back there.

	C:	So, after high school, what was it like thinking about the future. People have different orientations so…

	B:	After high school you focus on your future, your education. I mean that’s the main thing.

	C:	That was a given that you were going to further your education? B:	Yes, in my home. [laughs]

	C:	Right.



	2I:	So the…



	B:	Even my children as well, all of my children are graduates from college. My daughter is a pharmacist, my son is an engineer at Eglin Air Force Base, and my baby, he’s a security at Naval Air station, Pensacola, Florida. So they all right here. One is in Crestview, one is in Georgia, and one is here.

	C:	And so we were speaking a little bit earlier about your work with the auxiliary?



So, just to specify it’s the auxiliary of American leisure—



	B:	American Leisure Auxiliary Unit one ninety-three, Pensacola, Florida.



	C:	Mhmm. Can you give us a little history about that? When it was established.





	B:	American Unit— The American Unit was first charted in the late sixties. Okay, charted membership started under Dr. Cobb, he was— Sanford Cobb, he was the founder here, and his wife, Mrs. Cora Cobb, was our first president of this unit. And after receiving their permanent charter in June 5, 1971, Mrs. Janie Mae Morgan was elected the first president under our new charter. The original ten people, charter members were as followed: Janie Mae Morgan, Nelly Knight, Laura Mae Andrews, Eunice Davis, Nacisious Barker, Cora Cobb, Lucy Parker, Savannah Tate, Georgeanna Cobb-Jones, and Sally Mae Campbell. Now [inaudible 05:07] American Leader Unit one ninety-three past presidents are: Janie Morgan, Gwendolyn Lewis, Nelly Hooks, Ruby Williams, Edna Harden, Nelly Lewis, Jerry Belly, Karen Sears, Kathy Calls, Bessy Moore-Bradshaw, [inaudible 05:27]. Our current president is Connie Constance Hendricks. She is currently our president at the present time. Okay, now our mission is to support the American Leadership programs for veterans, young people and the community, to provide for today’s needs while being advocates for a brighter future, to advance the understanding of patriotism, and responsible of citizenship. To promote individual integrity and family values, to ensure as volunteers, the America— the auxiliary members continue to be the leaders in all that is good in this nation today, tomorrow and for the generation to come through serving other first and not self. Okay, during our tenure, we have had the honor of having the second Black department of Florida President, Miss Jerry Belly. She also, in the department serve, as well as national, she was truly a trooper… Jerry has just finished as the depart of Florida president, she was currently serving on the





national financial committee, national executive committee, and member of the extravagant guest committee during her demise, she deceased during her tenure at that time. She served faithful for the auxiliary as well. Now, we have auxiliary programs that we service is Americanism, auxiliary emergency funds, [inaudible 07:16]. Of memories, communitive services, children and youth, education, girl state, leadership, legislation, national security, past president Polly Poppet, public relations, veter— VA and R, Veterans Affairs and Rehabilitation. Now, our girls state program as we was talking earlier, we send two girls to girl state to participate in that program, and on that program they are there to develop and pride in American citizens, and we educated citizens about our government system to instill a greater understanding of American tradition, and we do that at Florida State for a week, and they go down to the capital… Well in the capital, anyway. They are divided into divisions, cities, and each city has to come up with a plan as to take to the legislature to pass a bill. That’s the purpose for the girls to go down there. They stay a long week and we pay for them— all their costs for them to do that. Other things that we have done in our community… especially after having [inaudible 08:39]. Every Tuesday we provide lunch for the veterans here at this organization. We give to the communities, we umm… Ronald McDonald house, we give them goods and services for “Make a Difference Day” in our program. Also, with Ronald McDonald house we have gone out to prepare meals for the families of the children that are in the hospital, we prepare lunch for them for that, and we always participate in “Reach Across America” for our veterans, and the Favor House for Kids, we do things for them, the schools, we





go out to schools and tell them about Americanism, what is good— why we do Americanism, we have ideas and activities to uphold the principal of American democracy. Okay, oh we have out annual golf tournament which we raise a lot of funds to distribute to the community and we have several things here at the American Leadership post. We have our veterans for every holiday, we have special programs here at the post, and they serve them, and we give out a lot of flags, teach them flag etiquette, what’s important about a flag, and why it’s so important for us to understand what it’s all about, what our country is all about.

We have ABC schools of instruction to talk about all of our programs that we have here and to implement them. Okay, I think that’s maybe enough, do I need some more? Oh its some program we give to is for sickle cell, cancer awareness, and we already spoke about girl state and [inaudible 10:33], and national security and this applies to our veterans. Sometimes they take coffee and donuts to them at the VA hospital, and we provide toiletries to the Her program, for the girls as well as the veterans, we make little bags for them to donate to them… goodie bags for them. And then we participate in the Stand Down program, do you know what that is?

	C:	I do not.



	B:	For the veterans… It’s for all the veterans that come down at the hospital and they give them services, they give them haircuts, doctor service, legal services, and clothing and shoes for them is all donated. We go down and help distribute and serve them for that at the Veterans hospital. And of course, we participate in all the patriotic holidays, and different things for them. [11:29] Okay, as I stated





earlier they had just changed eligibility rules for membership whereas your spouses can join, military spouses could be a dual role now but we didn't have that before, we had at the beginning that another membership we have to come up under the veterans, like I had to come up under my husband or you father or your grandfather etcetera. But now if you are a veteran and you belong to the uh… you can become a member of the auxiliary as well. Which will play a dual role, and I think that’s a good thing. Maybe we may not want… but I think that’s a good quality. So, we have senior membership and junior membership. Okay, well I think that’s about enough, do you think I gave you enough information?

	C:	Yeah, that covers a lot of the purpose, the work that you do, I was thinking so a lot of the times when it gets in mainstream culture you hear about veterans its usually like you know the soldier and what they did and whichever region, but so little is talked about like their families and you know the life after service.

	B:	Yes.



	C:	Can you speak on like, the importance of the role that you being a military spouse and I assume like many other military spouses right, the role that plays into like veteran life?

	B:	As we [inaudible 13:19-13:20] speak about these things today in the veterans life, I don’t think they do enough for the veterans, but we at the American Leadership, we have programs as I said earlier for our veterans and we honor them on all the patriotic holidays, we have programs to enlighten them on what has been done in the past, you know how they have served and we have guest speakers to come in, and we honor them, and our today’s society, we just don’t





do enough for veterans… because when they get out, they don’t get the proper services that they need and then they go through some hardships and you have so many on the side of the road, that need help and that shouldn’t have to be.

But here are the American Leadership [inaudible 14:08] we provide all kind of services to them. If they’re in the need and someone come in the door, and there are needs, they come in and speak with our house chairman and bring before the board and we help them, we help them. And the girl came in trying to get back to Tallahassee, she had no food, she couldn’t get there, she just needed money to get back to her home in Tallahassee, the veterans didn’t help her, and the VA didn’t her her. So she came through here, she showed us all of her identification and stuff to help her to just get back home. And we also, we had this young man, he was walking around America, he was in national news, he came through here because he just happened to come on a Tuesday, when we serve our veteran their lunch.

	C:	To get refuel after all that walking.



	B:	[laughs] Yes, but he was walking all across America, the country. I had his name in here somewhere… Okay, I am going to go back to Americanism a little bit more. [inaudible 15:22] I’ve gone out to the school to have DVD’s to show children about our—teaching Black etiquette and what they should do for their veterans and how they should support them and honor their country and talk about who we are. We addressed the veterans homeless that we have in our country consistently. Okay, and we stay updated on our charter, our membership.





	2I:	It sounds like Americanism is a pretty large role here, and if you can talk a little bit more about that.

	B:	It is. Okay, the Americanism work of the auxiliary includes all actives to perpetuate American ideas and to hold the principles of our American democracy. We have classes for [inaudible 16:20-16:21], on the codes, the creeds, the flags, observing of the holidays which I will always stated that. We encourage them to participate in our Americanism essay contest by networking through the schools in the group, and when the girls go to girl state they are able to apply for these scholarships which come through the American Leadership, and we donate to that, but our veterans is the main issue regarding country. We associate ourself for the following purpose: To uphold and defend the constitution of the United States of America, and to assist our veter— our [inaudible 17:04- 17:07] in any capacity that we can. This is what some of the things that we do here. Okay.

	C:	And you say you speak to schools about it? B:	Mhmm and the commissioner.

	C:	The city commissioners?



	B:	Board of county commissioners, and they help in our donations to try and get jobs done here and our attorneys here and vendors here, a dentist, we like [inaudible 17:29] what our program is all about, so we stretch out for our veterans and its all for the veterans. Everything we do [inaudible 17:39-17:40]. First, veterans first, children and youth, and the community. And the children, we have a lot of [inaudible 17:50]. During the holidays and their eyes just light up with the





gifts, and Halloween especially, for every holiday we do something special for our children in the community, to enlighten them on what its all about and let them learn to appreciate America and our country and our citizens and what we all about. I think there is something else.

	2I:	And its all volunteer work?



	B:	Volunteer, volunteer, volunteer, [laughs]. Volunteer, volunteer, volunteer, but in our reports we have to report to our department, and it goes to national and they in turn send it to Congress to help change our bills to help to encourage them on what our veterans need and what we are doing, so what they can see what we are working with, we’re doing, so they may pass some laws to do better things for our veterans. It’s all about our veterans and the children and the community, in that order. Now, we have girls state, and [inaudible 18:50] do boy state, but our girls state is so exciting, matter fact we are interviewing girls now for girls state and they have to write their essay and tell us why do they want to be a girls state, why do they want to go there, what do they think our community should be doing, what laws you think they should be passing, and that when they go down there at the capital, and like I say, they elect officers and then the states compete against the state and that how [inaudible 19:18]. In the past, we have had some bills passed through that girl state program.

	2I:	Wow, could you name one off the top of your head? Or some that you remember were passed through them.

	B:	Well bills… the last bill that they passed through that girl state… I can’t think right now, if I keep talking it will come to me [chuckles].





	C:	Or maybe like what issues do they normally try to tackle at the capital, cause you’ve mentioned like how with Congress or whatever it is try to get some kind of help—

	B:	Yeah I was just reading on of the girl’s application, and she said they want to pass a bill concerning crime that they’re doing here, and one girl, she had spoke about the veterans, and wanting to do more for the veterans. We want to help, we want to help the veterans families, Congress needs to pass more bills for them and the other girl she wanted to become in politics. So, she is going to express herself about what they need to do in the political world. Those are the kind of bills they are taking up to pass. But one [inaudible 20:31] something about the signs, the street signs or somethings they need to do more for safety, and that was implemented into that bill, I don’t know the name of the bill, but they did get something passed in Tallahassee. It doesn’t happen every year, but it does happen sometimes, and they enjoy it. [inaudible 20:58-21:01]. We get out to vote, we encourage that, that’s through Americanism. We have set up places here where they can come and sign up to vote, and get people registered to vote, we encourage that.

	C:	Civic engagement, right?



	B:	Yes, they need to get out to vote that very important, especially in our world today. The way things are going today, and to get the youth involved and understanding what the importance of being a citizen here is and the rights that they have. We help them with those programs too, and you would be very surprise of the attentiveness that you can get from these children, even the little





ones, and I remember one school I was at with this Americanism proposal, we had a DVD in there giving them flags and coloring books, talking about [inaudible 21:49] programs and one of girls she came up and go, she said “My father needs a flag, could you get me a flag for my father [laughs]” they learn the importance of it. And after we show the DVD there is a questionnaire, and they are very smart, this elementary school. And you see how attentive they was, and I let them respond, they was observing what was going through. I was going to bring some of that material with me, but like I say, I just wasn’t… [inaudible 22:19- 22:24].

	C:	You spoke about the patriotic holidays, obviously I’m thinking mostly Veterans Day and Memorial Day are there any specific things that take place?

	B:	On Veterans day, you know we have parades for Veterans Day and Memorial Day, and each time we have a program here at the American Leadership Program for all patriotic holidays.

	C:	Folks come through— I heard someone tell me that Pensacola is the highest concentration of U.S. veterans in the world basically. There is what, three bases over here?

	B:	Yup, we have Edgar Air Force Base, that’s where my son work, and Naval Air Station, where my other son works, and Whitley field, and Softley field, so we have several bases here. We are a military town, in our area.

Lady Lex used to be here years ago, that was a big ship, everybody knew the Lady Lex, and when it came to town it brought a lot of revenue here, we had a lot of veterans here. And we had plenty of veterans always coming here to the





American Legion, now all of our district— we are in district one, from here down through Panama city, and as unit president and department president you have to go visit each unit, we help all the units in the district when we go to our department they’ll say unit one ninety-three is the best American Legion post, within our district, and that’s a comment for us.

	C:	[inaudible 24:00-24:01].



	B:	So, we do very well for our veterans and [inaudible 24:07].



	C:	And so like, throughout your time, like I guess reflecting back on so much of the work that’s you know happened and, what really sticks out to you as your first thing that you think about like why this is so important or you know an event that’s really significant to you specifically, what really comes to mind?

	B:	All of the events that are significant is serving our veterans, in any capacity that we can through our different programs that we have. Each program we do, it’s always veterans involved, but I just like helping our veterans because its they are so important to us, because they take care of us. They are the ones who’s out there fighting for us and doing what needs to be done for America, where we can be here and be safe as we are. So, everything we do is for our veterans and their families, their families as well.

	C:	Yes.



B:  And we [inaudible 25:19] to educate and understand what America is all about and our veterans is our number one priority, and its sadly to see the things that happen to them, you know when they are not in the military. However, the





military is good to our veterans, but then there are a lot of obstacles that can be done better.

	2I:	What do you think is the biggest obstacles for veterans right now? You say that there is more that America can be doing, what do you think those things are?

	B:	Once they retire, the help, they need more help, but they have made another change here lately, Congress passed. They have privileges to utilize the commissary to get help you know, medical attention and stuff. But they have changed now where the ones that did not retire through that twenty or twenty-five years that if you serve in the military, you can have some of the same rights and privileges as someone who actually retired. They have just changed that. They are able to go to the commissary and shop there and get things just was not for them if they didn’t actually retire. They had just passed a law for that. Our veterans is what we all about, its why we’re here, as I’ve said that over and over and over. Why we are safe here, as we sitting here and speaking now, some of our veterans are dying. Our young boys and girls as we sit here today. So support your veterans because we— okay I hope that y’all have gained something from this information. [inaudible 27:11].

	C:	Yeah of course, if you have any further comments, [inaudible 27:19]



	B:	As I said, [inaudible 27:21] make sure to support our veterans, participate in programs that related to them, and we are all about service and not self. That’s what’s most important about this organization, service and not self.

	C:	Alright, well thank you so much ma’am for sitting down with us today, and I am going to press stop.





[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Aysia Gilbert, March 11, 2021 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, March 15, 2021 Final edited by:	Sandra Romero, March 19, 2021