AAHP 615; White; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 615 Frederick White African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Julian Valdivia on June 26, 2018 97 minutes | 39 pages





Abstract: In this interview, former educator Frederick White recounts his years at Fort Myers Junior High during integration, and the environment that followed. After receiving his education degree from Allen University in Columbia, South Carolina and returning to Fort Myers to teach, he received difficult news: he was being drafted. Frederick White reflects on what it was like to be drafted, in basic training, and serving in the Vietnam War as a Black man, and later, to come home to a country in turmoil. He recounts getting back into teaching after briefly adjusting to life back home, and his frustration that many schools in the area had poor curriculums that did not include the Black experience. He fondly remembers coworkers and mentors who helped him get work as a teacher that eventually led to his thirty years at Fort Myers Junior High (now Fort Myers Middle). While teaching, he also led a troop of Boy Scouts and was involved in community team sports. This community work was inspired by members of the Black community in Fort Myers who came before him and led the way. He mentions how these experiences informed his path, now as a minister who speaks about history and racism.



Key words: [African American Studies, Fort Myers, Cape Coral, education, Vietnam War, veteran, segregation, integration, Florida history, Boy Scouts]























For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 615

Interviewee: Frederick White Interviewer: Julian Valdivia Date: July 26, 2018



	V:	This is Julian Valdivia with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. I’m here today at the Lee County Black History Society in Roberto Clemente Park speaking with?

	W:	Frederick A. White.



	V:	Thank you for coming here today, Freddy. W:	You’re welcome.

	V:	The first thing I want to ask for the ease of the transcriber is, how do I spell your name?

	W:	F-R-E-D-E-R-I-C-K. The A stands for Albert. White, W-H-I-T-E. V:	Can I ask when you were born?

	W:	October 13, 1941.



	V:	And were you born here in Fort Myers? W:	Yes.

	V:	And who were your parents?



	W:	Nathaniel White and Gussie May White.



	V:	And May was the maiden name for your mother? W:	My mother’s maiden name was Alexandra.

	V:	And Gussie being spelled G-U-?





	W:	S-S-I-E.



	V:	Were you born to a midwife?



	W:	A midwife. I quite don’t remember her name but it was before Miss May Ola. I know Miss May Ola, but I was born to another, Joyce, Dean, and I, and a couple others.

	V:	Do you remember where you lived off when you grew up?



	W:	Yes, I was on Palm Avenue. Should I say Palm Avenue or Palm Street? I want to say Palm Avenue, and Price Street. I spent time with my grandmother on Price Street. Daddy’s mother lived over there somewhere.

	V:	Were you grandparents on both sides around here? W:	Yes.

	V:	Has your family grown up here your whole life?



	W:	My grandmother came from Alachua County and her family moved her in 1910.



My grandpa, he found his way. He was an orphan out of Duval, Jacksonville area. We never could trace his family.

	V:	Do you know how your grandparents met?



	W:	With my mom, I can go way back. My grandmother’s father on my daddy’s side, her father was a preacher. His name was Williams. He came here with Ida to Fort Myers. I guess they were preaching and that’s how they moved here. Papa came with a lady here and they worked with Miss Flossie Hill.





	V:	Who is that?



	W:	She ran a store. You’ve probably heard of Flossie Hill Women’s Shop or Women’s Store. That’s how he wound up here in Fort Myers.

	V:	So your parents were born here as well?



	W:	My parents were born here. My father and mother were born here. V:	When you were growing up, did you have siblings as well?

	W:	Many siblings! It was twelve of us.



	V:	Oh wow! Did you all divide chores around the house?



	W:	Oh yes. The chores consisted of cleaning, washing, all of the things that a normal family would do in the house. Washing clothes by hand, wash tub, fold. All the things that would require you to have a task when you came from school. You had to take care of the children. I was the second oldest. My sister was the first oldest, and Billie, she lives in Montgomery now, she lived mostly with my grandmother, and I with my parents and the rest of the siblings. I was considered to be the oldest when my mom and dad went to work and made sure everything was in line. That started at an early age. We made it.

	V:	When you were washing clothes and things like that, where did you get the soap from? Did you make it yourself or did you buy it?

	W:	My grandmother took in washing for the kids years ago, and we would get that from her. Basically we got the soap from my grandmother who was an





entrepreneur, she ran a grocery store. We got soap and things like that that we needed from her store.

	V:	It seems like you and your siblings spent a lot of time with your grandma living other there. Was that to help your parents balance?

	W:	Not my siblings, but me and my sister. When we were first born, my dad and my mother married and they lived in his mother and father’s house. It was big enough. My pop, being an orphan, he actually built his own home on Price Street. She had a grocery store on Brown Street so that area was called The Park at that time. The Dunbar area was called The Park. She ran a pretty good shop to only go to third grade. As time went on, most of all my other siblings were raised on High Street. We actually grew up on High Street in Fort Myers, right across the street from Dunbar High.

	V:	I don’t really know my streets. Is that old Dunbar, or new Dunbar?



	W:	Old Dunbar. The new Dunbar is on Edison, the old Dunbar was on High Street.



Fond remembrance of Dunbar.



	V:	Well you were born in the [19]40s so you went there. We’ll get to that. I wanted to ask about you and your siblings. Did your parents ever take you on family trips around here?

	W:	No, we couldn't afford it. Keep in mind I was the oldest and my mother had children all the way up until [19]60. My baby brother just turned fifty years this past June. I would go as I got older and spend the summer with my aunt in West Palm Beach. She was born here and later became a teacher in Palm Beach.





	V:	What did your parents do for a living?



	W:	My father worked on a farm and my mother worked as a maid. V:	Do you know what farm your father worked at?

	W:	I can't remember the farm but I do remember the man. My father worked on many farms. In fact, he went up north in the summer. It was so bad with crops. He went up north to work, to make sure his family was secure. He caught the truck and went up north, working. We stayed here and he came back when the season was over up there. The guy’s name was Mr. Lou Porter. I remember him, that was in my dad’s latter years that he worked on the farm. I remember Mr. Lou Porter so well because he enabled my dad to get social security. He started paying it. That lets you know that it was a situation where they were not just working. You didn't receive any social security. But I guess he was a good worker and Mr. Lou Porter appreciated him in his latter years to start paying his social security so he was able to get a little bit of social security when he retired.

	V:	Wow, I didn’t think about that even because that just started up in [19]46. I want to ask about you in elementary school. Where’d you go to elementary school?

	W:	I went to Dunbar Elementary, you were all on the same grounds. The building over here, the history building, I went to school in that building from first through until they moved us out in fifth grade.

	V:	So was Williams Academy also Dunbar Elementary?





	W:	Williams Academy first started down on Cranford and moved it to campus over here on Dunbar. They set it there and that's where we went to school. I left there and went till they built another building and that’s where we went to fourth grade, fifth grade, so forth, and went until we went to high school.

	V:	Do you remember playing sports when you were growing up?



	W:	When you say “growing up,” between the ages of eight? There was no organized sports so we developed our own games. We played stickball, hopscotch, we did all the things normal kids would do in the community. No competition. Then when I got to high school, that’s a long story because I played basketball. But that’s another situation, if you get to it, I’ll tell you about it a little later, but if you want me to, I can just talk about that right now.

	V:	Yeah, we can talk about when you went to high school.



	W:	What was ironic about it, we always had great athletes. We were completely segregated so we competed against other schools when I got to high school, but I didn’t play football. Football was the only thing on, we didn't have a baseball team. Then we finally had a basketball team. We always played basketball, I’ll do basketball. What was ironic was, Mr. Barker, my principal and principal of the entire school at that - that was high school and elementary - he stopped basketball because he wanted a gym built. He said you’re not gonna play basketball until someone decides to build us a gym. So they start to build a gym, and I think it was [19]57 or [19]58, and I was coming up on my senior year. Mr.

Barker died in [19]58 before the gym was complete. The gym, that’s the library





now, over here the Jupiter Library, that was the gym. Believe it or not, we played the first game of basketball in that gym. What was so bad about it was we looked forward to playing that gym our senior year. We played the last game of our basketball season in that gym. That’s the only time we got to play in that gym.

That’s kind of like when I really look back on it as kind of sad because we had a lot of great athletes. Thinking about Phillip Jiles, Fred Morgan.

	V:	Walt Wesley?



	W:	Yes. I was before Walt. When I was playing that senior year, I used to pick Walt to play on my basketball team, on pick up games and stuff like that.

	V:	Oh really?



	W:	Yes, Walt is a very good friend of the family.



	V:	When you were in high school, I want to ask about the materials. Was everything that you guys got also hand-me-downs?

	W:	You better believe it. Everything was hand-me-downs. We didn't have the best of everything. I can remember Mr. Primus, my science teacher who taught chemistry. I can remember biology. I can remember one guy being assigned to work the microscope so we passed by and looked through the microscope because we only had one that was workable. I remember also going out and finding alley cats and dissecting them in order to learn [Laughter]. We’d euthanize them and we’d dissect them in order to study them. We were given all hand-me-downs and most of them came from Fort Myers High. When I look back at it, I feel many times that we were robbed of many things but it could’ve been





worse because at least those books and things that we did get, enabled us to learn and to move forward. The thing I regret most was that the curriculum that they designed was not designed to teach us about Blacks and what our accomplishments have been. A lot of it I had to learn on my own as the years passed by, but that’s not to say that my teachers were not dedicated. They were dedicated enough to teach us the basic things that we needed to understand and learn. They did a lot of teaching about life as well, too. How to survive in this world, how to even make a living because they had designed programs that would allow the kids to go out and work. I can remember Mr. Walt Wesley’s father was at DCT, I think they used to call it, and he’d take kids out and get them jobs over the years. We got the opportunity to do well in school and I appreciate that. I appreciate the dedication of the Black teachers during that time because when you look back it, they were handicapped in many ways. Handicapped in terms of materials and being able to take us on trips and things we could have enjoyed.

	V:	With that handicap, do you remember any ways that a lot of the teachers tried to work around it?

	W:	Absolutely. I also know being a teacher myself. I also know that a lot of things came right out of their pockets. I remember all of my teachers, but I remember Mrs. Kennedy was sort of special, Ms. Barbara Bennet, Mr. Primus was special. Mrs. Kennedy would take us on field trips that we would get in trouble with the principal about. She’d take us out on field trips and we loved that, but we would





always have to walk out there and visit different places. She would instruct that way. Other than that, no. We mostly did things in house.

	V:	For the trips that you guys did go on, are there any that stood out to you that you remember?

	W:	Yes, I remember one. We went to the junkyard and when we got back from that trip, she wasn’t authorized to take us on that trip. Mr. Barker put us all in the room and spanked us [Inaudible]. I think I would’ve been in fifth or sixth grade. No - Ms. Bennet was my sixth grade teacher so that was in either third or fourth grade. There was a kind of experiences that I was able to give my kids at Fort Myers Middle School. We didn’t have those kinds of experiences in terms of being able to go out and visit the beach and visit other places. But at the end of the year, I can remember Mr. Barker taking us to the beach for Fun Day at the end of the year. We really enjoyed that, and we soon had to stop that because it became a liability. Other than that, nah.

	V:	You talk about the beach. What beach did you go to? Was it Bunche Beach?



	W:	Yes, Bunche Beach. That was the only beach we could go to at that particular time. Someone said to me once, “When was the last time you’ve been to Bunche Beach?” I haven’t been to Bunche Beach since 1963. As I learned more about myself and my place in this country, and my understanding of what was a reality, I learned more about that. In some ways I became resentful so I had a hard time with going back and looking at the past when I felt like it should’ve been better.

Why go to Bunche Beach when I could go to Fort Myers Beach or Bonita Beach





or any beach I wanted to go to? I kind of built a wall against that and I’m so glad to see that our kids can go to any beach. When I see our kids, I mean all kids can go to any beach that they wanna go to and feel free to go there. Those are the kinds of things that I delight in.

	V:	I guess it’s a misconception when I was reading about things. I know that Bunche Beach was officially named Bunche Beach in the 1940s. Was it just called “the Black Beach” before that? I know it was named after Ralph Bunche.

	W:	Colored Folks Beach, or Colored Beach. In my day, it was a colored beach and it wasn’t a Black — that all came into the [19]60s, then it went from Black to Afro- Americans. It was “colored.”

	V:	Do you remember the kind of activities you’d all do there? Was it just swimming?



I haven't been there myself. Was it rocky? Was there sand?



	W:	It wasn’t a well-kept beach. It was a beach that you’d go out and have fun and set up and enjoy the water, and run and play. But it wasn’t well-kept from what I recall.

	V:	Going back to high school then. Where did you end up applying to college?



	W:	[Laughter] That was interesting. I didn’t wanna go to college. I wanted to go to the military because all my classmates were going to the military. I was finishing at the age of seventeen and turning eighteen that October the following year, 1959. But my mom would not allow signing for me to go anywhere because you had to be twenty-one to even sign up for the military and I was eighteen so I couldn’t sign for myself. She wasn’t about to sign. I had an uncle that had this





desire to lend me a tale, he was an after teacher by the way. He had this desire to go to college and if you study this history in this area, there’s some names that pop up like Melvin Morgan, the first Black county commissioner appointed by the governor, names like Jim Stephens who the school over here is named after - Jim Stephens Academy, and Sonny Wesley was his son. Those kinds of names, they went to college and they went to Allen University in Columbia, South Carolina. So, [Inaudible] Tillis, who I call my Uncle Till went there and my mom said, “That's where you’re going,” and that’s where I wind up. That’s how I ended up going to college. She filled out all the paperwork because I had no desire. I went up there with them and survived, and enjoyed it and finished in 1963.

	V:	And did your parents pay for your education?



	W:	I was a loan. I went up there with nothing, but they gave me a loan. Thank god for [Inaudible]. They gave me a loan and put me to work. If you’re willing to study hard, we will increase it and we will give you a government loan, and I got the government loan. I worked on that and went to work for a state mental hospital in Columbia, South Carolina. [Inaudible] I never forget that and I worked there for about two years. I worked most of my way through college.

	V:	When you were in college did you study education?



	W:	I was in education so I went into biology and chemistry. I automatically wound up in education. All of us, believe it or not, from Allen, came back here and sort of made a name for ourselves in our community - not just our community but all the





communities that’s around Fort Myers because we had some great teachers. Marge Brown, Melvin Morgan, Walter Ware, [Inaudible] Till, all those guys are — Ivory [Inaudible] stayed in Virginia. Harold [Inaudible] is in South Carolina. We all contributed back. I’d like to think that people like Steve and Melvin and all of them — Fred Morgan, Melvin’s husband, don’t let me forget

Fred! Tremendous athlete. We all contributed a great deal to this community. I’d like to say we stand on the shoulders of those people.

	V:	When you say “contributed,” was it through the work that they did here in the community, or was it through other means?

	W:	The work that we did in the community. Not only the work we did in the community but the work they did in the schools and it spilled out to the communities. Like I said, Melvin was a County Commissioner. Steve worked at Fort Myers High coaching basketball and from there he became a community school principal, then from there he was put on the board at Edison Junior College at the time. He contributed a lot. Till. All of them contributed a whole lot. Till taught night school. Anything we could fit in to do the job in the community. It didn’t stay here, it extended out through the county.

	V:	When you went to college with these people, you kind of took up the responsibility to educate people within the community and help lift people up. Was that what you thought you were gonna do going in? Because you said you thought you were going into the military. How did you become associated with a lot of these people?





	W:	Keep in mind some of them were ahead of me. You’re absolutely right. I think it started for me when I got to Allen in [19]59, my freshman year. Starting in [19]60, I think the whole thing kind of bloomed for me when we had the sit-ins. I was in the sit-in demonstrations and I began to learn more about who I was as a citizen and who I should be as a citizen, and who we should be as a country. The only way you have to look at this isn’t from a negative, but from a positive. So I had to look at this stuff I had building and accumulated over the years, and turn my attention to what I can do to help to make it better not only for my people but I consider America my people. That’s how I see it now as a Christian. It took understanding who Christ was to bring me to this reality so yes, it kind of like, “Hey, I want to help kids. Period.” So I went to work for the YMCA, for the Boy Scouts of America when I came back from Vietnam, and not only me but all of the ones like Till, Steve, and Jimmy. All of these guys, they were strong people in the community. Their children went to all different high schools and

became [Inaudible] people and doing different things.



	V:	You talk about the sit-in. How did the environment change or compare between Columbia, South Carolina and Fort Myers?

	W:	Columbia, South Carolina was a place where you had a lot of educators. You had schools in South Carolina that were close in proximity. South Carolina State and Benedict across the street. Allen on this side. You had colleges and universities then you had a lot of active people throughout the community. If you look at it from that point of view, Fort Myers did not have a school. I can remember when Edison first came here and it was separated. Edison was started





and we had to have Edison out here but the college was put on another campus here. I don’t know if most people remember that but Edison Community College, a section of it for Blacks was another school on High Street. We couldn't go to the school over here. If I’m not mistaken, I think Dr. Gilmore in his latter days became the associative there for Edison. He represented Edison College here on the campus. You can see the dynamics there that there wasn’t many people going to college from Fort Myers. We had to bypass schools like Florida State and University of Florida because they were segregated. The environment was different. When I got in that environment in Columbia, I became a student, and not only a student, but one that appreciated being a student and one that appreciated being a Black student because we were taught and trained that way. Here in Fort Myers, there was still a distance to go. It was still a learning process. It was like when I came home to teach, I went to purchase a car, which I didn't purchase it from his lot — I went to Tampa — and the guy said, “What do you think about this bussing?” I said, “What do you mean ‘What do I think about bussing?’” So he says you’re thinking of sending kids from the neighborhoods.

So he was thinking ahead, and bringing them over here to send to school. I said, “I think nothing of it,” which brought me back to this. They were bussing kids from Naples, Charlotte County, Punta Gorda, Immokalee, LaBelle, I went to school with all those kids. From Sanibel Island, and [Inaudible]. They passed all those schools to get here so I thought nothing of bussing. We seen buses all our lives. I had students that would come from Naples and the bus would be late. They’d say, “Why are you late?” and they’d say, “We had to wait for the bears to cross





the road.” Because that was wilderness down there, Bonita Springs and Estero. They were coming to school a mighty long way.

	V:	That’s a really good point, I had never thought about that, with all the other people, especially the kids from Sanibel. They had to take a ferry!

	W:	[Laughter] You talked to some people from Sanibel? V:	I haven’t talked to anyone from Sanibel yet.

	W:	I would love for you to talk to Gavin.



	V:	Oh, Eugene Gavin. Eugene and Velma.



	W:	I would love for you to talk to Eugene Gavin. I would love to. We’re classmates. We went from first through twelfth grade together. I told him I want him to come here to give some stuff to them that Eugene had talked to me about. I want them to go out there. They got a strong history there.

	V:	Oh yeah. It’s the Gavins, Prestons, and Walkers. The family is there, right? W:	Absolutely, yes.

	V:	Definitely. We can talk about that because he was one of the first names that popped up when I was working on southwest Florida history and who to interview.

	W:	He does my plumbing. He bought two tapes but one I gotta give them back to him for them to put it together, the family on Sanibel Island history. It’s beautiful.

	V:	What did you do after you graduated in 1963?





	W:	I came back here and Ms. Stallworth gave me a job. She put the first book in my hand as a first grader and she gave me a job as a teacher. I taught two years in and then I decided that I wanted to do something different. I don’t wanna be a classroom teacher so I took off and went back to West Palm Beach and started laying carpet. I didn't want to teach, and then I wound up in the military. From there I wound up in Vietnam. I did a tour of duty in Vietnam and that kind of directed me in the right direction. I came back home and that’s when I decided that I better go back to what I know best. I stayed there and taught school for over thirty six years.

	V:	When you were carpeting, what thought came into your head of, “Maybe I should go to the military?”

	W:	I was drafted. I didn’t wanna go to the military. I was called up. [Laughter]



	V:	When I came home, I think it had a lot to do with working in the community, and volunteering my time to do things at the high school. During the time, I was teaching at Dunbar under Ms. Stallwroth and I really wanted to get into the high school but they was filled. What happened was the principal at that time was my science teacher, Mr. Primus, and I got a little ticked because I couldn’t get into the high school. I just decided I was going to go until the summer, then summer led to me going to Palm Beach and I didn’t come back. But when I did come back and get ready for the draft, Mr. Primus ordered me to come to work for him but they had already got caught up in this thing. I winded up going into the military, and the best thing happened to me. It gave me a new direction of discipline.





	V:	Do you know what the general reaction was? That’s something that someone from my generation doesn’t understand because we’ve never experienced a draft. What was the reaction among your family and in the community when the draft did come up?

	W:		I don’t think they particularly liked it but I got caught up in it and I got drafted. I wouldn't say it was any negligence on my part because I really don't fight it.

When Mr. Primus came to me, I was kind of disappointed and I just said, “Hey, look. I’m just going to take my chances” and I just went on to the military. I served in the draft and it became my eye opener when they’d let us off the ship and the carriers they carried us onto the shore, when they hit, you saw these flares and bombing taking place. You’re like, “How did I get here?” Well, time to man up now. You got here. You got to do your duty, get out, and go home. So I did my duty, got out, and came home. The draft was a discipline for me. I don’t think they would ever go back to it, nor should they because they have volunteers, but I do know it helps a lot of individuals that need to develop more discipline in their lives. I feel that way now. You might have a lot of people who disagree but not in terms of wars. I hate war. It’s not a nice thing, especially the one we fought in Vietnam. That’s another story.

	V:	Are you comfortable talking about your experiences in Vietnam? W:	Yeah.

		V:	Do you remember where you went to basic? W:		I went to basic in Fort Bennett in Georgia.





	V:	Was there anything you remember in basic, like any specific people?



	W:	Sergeant Car and Sergeant Johnson who was a really good sergeant. They were tough and they were preparing us. There were two lieutenants that I didn’t care too much for. We did what we had to do and we trained hard. When we got out of there, I didn’t want to look back and I didn’t look back because it was tough training. From there, they shipped us out to Fort Sill in Oklahoma.

	V:	I know coming from Fort Myers, that wasn't fully integrated until the early [19]70s.



Was that the first time you were in an integrated environment then?



	W:	You’re asking some good questions! Yes, that was the first time I ever interacted with my White brothers. Being a little bit more matured, it was not a hard adjustment. You put a bunch of men in a room and they understand why they are there. You got people over you that are not gonna tolerate any kind of foolishness. In the military, they go through that enough. The military was one of the first ones to really integrated the way they were supposed to, and treat people they were supposed to.in the year [19]65, in December, I didn’t run into any problems. We operated as a unit. The only time I ran into any problems was with a couple of Cuban guys. That was kind of interesting. We were talking one day and I can’t remember their names, but one of them said to me, “Freddy, if you were in my country, you’d have been my slave” [Laughter]. You don’t bring back that stuff. There was [Inaudible] and all the other things. I looked at him and the only thing I could respond to him was, “Listen, we’re not in your country and don’t ever say that to me again.” I don’t know what brought that on.





	V:	[Laughter]



	W:	I do remember that there were some misunderstandings with the first flight of Cubans, when they came out of Castro. I wanted to do a [Inaudible] on that, too. A lot of times people don't really understand their history and I never got into studying the history. I can imagine a lot of things that went on. One of the main questions I used to always ask, and I’ll leave it at that, “Why is it that I always see so many White Cubans come but I never see any Black Cubans come?” That was a question that was on my mind as well but I guess there’s a reason for it. All in all, I see things a little bit different than some others see it. I’d like to say this though, after we broke up, I had to go to Fort Sill, I don’t know where they had to go from their camp but I can imagine they were [Inaudible].

	V:	Fort Sill. You said that was in Oklahoma? W:	Oklahoma.

	V:	What did you do in Oklahoma then? Was that still basic training?



	W:	Advanced training. I was in artillery, [Inaudible] computing data for big guns.



From there they shipped us straight out over to Vietnam.



	V:	Were you on the frontline at all?



	W:	There were no established frontlines in Vietnam as far as I’m concerned because they fought all over the place. The Auburn Troops, those are the troops we fought alongside of, and my battalion was a [Inaudible] battalion, so we fought with everybody. We protected and [Inaudible] for everybody. It was guerrilla





warfare in many ways. They were everywhere, we were everywhere. I often say that if they allowed us to, we could’ve probably taken the country like we did

in Mid-East War. We could’ve taken the country in three weeks if they’d just let us fight. They’d go out and clear an area and then put us back in the camp.

58,000 men lost their lives behind that kind of stuff. To me, we still lost the war because we didn't win it and we should’ve won it. They should’ve allowed us to win it. It was bad governance. I never want to see that happen again because of that foolishness. Craziness — I don’t know what word to call it. Stupidity. It was wrong. If you’re gonna fight, fight. The thing that I got some consolation from was when General Colin Powell made that statement when he went over and he said, “We’re just gonna go right straight through. If we’re gonna do it, we’re gonna do it the right way.” And they did. They should’ve went on and taken care of business but they stopped then. At least they saved a lot of troops. It was a bad war, and when I came back home, I can’t speak for anyone else, I was told I was crazy for going. People just didn’t understand about that war, and sort of denigrated the troops. WE could've been bitter about that. To this day, they’re still trying to help us get over that. Many veterans have not gotten over the treatment in that war.

Here we are. I don’t know if lessons learned, I hope so, but from what I can see, we’re still threatening countries. We’re still trying to work. But it didn’t accomplish very much.

	V:	With people saying you’re crazy for going —



	W:	That hurt a little bit. When I first came back, it hurt because it wasn't people, it was some of my friends. “Why did you go?” Well, I was in a situation where they





were drafting and I wasn’t going to run to Canada and I wouldn’t have. It never dawned on me about skipping out — or what’s that thing that Trump got? The five things he got? Exempted from it for lack of words? You get exempt from the war because of flat feet or religious background, or doctor thing.

	V:	Oh, the exemption things. I don’t know what they’re called.



	W:	My memory really escapes me sometimes. But that never crossed the guys that left here’s minds. We had a duty to perform and we did it. I’m proud of it. Would I do it again? If the situation was like mine, I think I would. But my brother? I told him, “You stay in school another year. I would stay here.” It got to the point that as long as someone was in the country, your brothers wouldn't have to.

	V:	Did a lot of people understand that it wasn't really a choice on your part?



	W:	As years have gone by and as things really start to honor the Vietnam vet, and appreciate the work that they did and that it was not their fault, the minute they start recognizing people like Colin Powell who served and all those guys who got shot, and McCain who President Trump says is not a hero, I mean, Come on! I don’t like a lot of his policies but what is a hero if he’s not a hero. What do you have to do? [Laughter] Anyway, [Inaudible] when I see someone that got that many exemptions from going into the military tell people that they are unpatriotic. As a veteran, it really bothers me. It bothers me when people think like that and say, “Well, I agree with him.” Stay away from that. You didn’t do it so stay away from it. But he’s the Commander-In-Chief.

	V:	These are crazy times.





	W:	[Laughter]



	V:	I should say, “Interesting times.”



	W:	I tell my wife I’m sure glad I am not teaching kids these days. I would probably get fired for teaching them the correct way. Just trying to stay away from

it. Wowee!



	V:	What year did you come back to the States? W:	I went over in 1966. I came back in [19]67.

	V:	When you came back, did you immediately come back to Fort Myers where your family was?

	W:	Yes, I did. I was sort of in limbo for a while. You don’t know the effect that something like that will have on you and I didn’t know or understand it. Thank god I had my mom and my dad and I could stay with them and get myself together. Finally my dad got a little tired of it and said, “Hey, it’s time you go back to work.” I had saved up some stuff but for about a year and a half I wasn’t doing anything with my life. When I look back on it, it really had an effect on me. A lot of the time, you don’t know it. Those are the types of things they really found out from the veterans that went to the Mid-East, the ones that suffered from —

	V:	PTSD?



	W:	Yes, thank you. I sometimes wonder did I have it, because I went through that period we’re in where things mattered but I just wasn't able to put things together.





Thank god for my family because a lot of veterans, hearing about it, they suffered.

	V:	I don’t want to assume but I know a lot of people after they came back, they became more religious or they had a better connection with God afterwards — was that the case for you?

	W:	No. When I came back and once I got myself centered within, I won’t even say situated, and got my mind focused again, there were some friends U happened there, I got back into teaching. I said I would never camp again and that’s when I took on the Boy Scouts. Richard [Inaudible] and I took on the Boy Scouts. He ran a troop and I ran a troop. I ran Troop 49. We Boy Scouted and I got involved in community basketball at the YMCA. The years just passed. You find yourself being involved at the NAACP when I first came back. You just contributed. Pretty soon you don’t talk about the negative, you’re able to put that behind you. The only thing a negative can do is pull down, you have to continue to move forward and thank god I was able to do that.

	V:	You said you started teaching again. You said it took about a year or year and a half. Was that in [19]69?

	W:	[19]69, [19]70, yeah.



	V:	I know in [19]68 they just had the teacher walk-outs with the schools.



	W:	I didn’t bother with the teacher walk-out. I remember that just like it was the other day. I just come back and then they had the teacher walk-outs and then King got





killed in [19]68, then it was Kennedy. [19]69 rolled around. I think it was either [19]69 or [19]70 that I started back but the sit-ins and strikes was over, right?

	V:	And Dunbar High School had just been closed.



	W:	Mmhm. They moved it over here. Dunbar was not over here anymore, and somewhere in the early [19]70s, [19]72 or [19]73, it was a [Inaudible] school for U. Then they leased it and sent them all to different places and Dunbar High became a [Inaudible] school.

	V:	Where did you start teaching then?



	W:	At the old Dunbar, under Ms. Stallworth. She had from elementary to eighth grade. I started over there with her.

	V:	Was the school closed while you were teaching then?



	W:	No, the school was open. That was in the [19]60s. I was there in [19]63 - [19]65.



The summer of [19]65 is when I left.



	V:	I meant when you came back and started teaching. W:	I was at Orangewood Elementary.

	V:	Where’s that?



	W:	Do you know where Cleveland Avenue and Edison Mall? V:	Yes, I do.

	W:	If you’re standing right in front of Edison Mall and look right across Cleveland, Orangewood is over there. Mr. Saroski was my principal at that time. He hired





me and I worked there. I worked there a year and I transferred to Mr. Beaver at Fort Myers High. It was Fort Myers Middle School.

	V:	So you transferred over to middle school, not high school?



	W:	He came over in high, because they were moving over the sixth grade in and make it sixth, seventh, and eighth grade before it was a junior high school.

	V:	I was wondering because you said you were teaching elementary and didn’t you say you wanted to move on to go to high school.

	W:	I took the first job back and that was with Mr. Saroski in elementary, but it was a lot of fun. Lessons learned. I better stay with this job, I cant move on.

	V:	In the middle of this, you said you were getting involved with the Boy Scouts and the YMCA.

	W:	Oh yeah.



	V:	With your Boy Scout Troop, where did you take them for camping? What were the spots?

	W:	We used to go to Camp Myers out here in North Fort Myers, going to Arcadia. If you know where the arena is out there?

	V:	Which arena?



	W:	Lee County Area.



	V:	Oh, okay, yes.



	W:	There’s a highway that runs out that way all the way to Arcadia.





	V:	Did you also do fishing trips by the Caloosahatchee or Sanibel?



	W:	We did all that. We also did a lot of fishing out there at the camp. Basically, we set up camps at the school. My troop was at Franklin Park Elementary. That’s where we operated out of.

	V:	I think he was also a Boy Scout or troop leader at the time. Did you do this at the same time as George Mayo?

	W:	No. I came way before Mayo. I can remember when Mayo and those did that. I came in the Boy Scouts as I came out of the military. Richard Sipen had one

at U. We used to team up. The kids had a ball. They had a pool and a whole lot of stuff out there. I was looking at pictures of my scouts the other day. I was going through a lot of books, I’m trying to rearrange them. All these guys are grown and got families now.

		V:	So you started teaching at Fort Myers Middle then? W:		And I stayed there for a long time. Thirty years!

	V:	So you taught middle school for thirty years afterwards? W:	Oh yeah.

	V:	During the early [19]70s, it was [19]72 when they were having the riots at Fort Myers High. I remember being a kid and talking about those things that were happening. How did the middle school interpret what was going on at Fort Myers High and the violence in the city?





	W:	We had a good principal, at that time Mr. Beaver was the principal. He had a good working condition with the high school because some of his teachers was working over there in the afternoon extracurricular activities like football and baseball. Coach [Inaudible] was coaching baseball. So we had a pretty good handle on things and were able to maintain a good environment around Fort Myers Middle School. I would go so far as to say if it affected the kids, we didn't know it. Some of our kids had left Fort Myers Junior High and went over there and went to Fort Myers High. That was a feeder school. There were a lot of problems at the beginning, even at North Fort Myers High. They had the same thing. I would say even over there they had U, just a pretty good solid people in place. It didn’t escalate as far as I was concerned that it would be a problem. I remember Mr. Beaver saying to me one time, “Fred, what do you think we need to do to help out over there?” I just said, “I think they can handle it.” Because we had some of the kids that were going through. They were frustrated. Sometimes you just cant afford fights that break out, but if you keep working at it, you can change it. Mr. Thompson, his wife — you’re bringing back memories — Mrs.

Thompson was the guidance counselor at Fort Myers Middle. That’s what she worked on when she was at Fort Myers Junior High. Her husband was the principal over at Fort Myers High and one of the things that he did that was hire Coach Stephens. Jim Stephens is who that middle school is named after. Jim was over there as the first Black head coach at a predominantly White school.

	V:	He was the first in Lee County? W:	Yes, the first in Lee County.





	V:	Oh wow.



	W:	Yeah. He was there so that helped a lot. Mr. Thompson was smart by doing that.



I can forget some of the other teachers that he had but I know Jim was there. I don’t think Ms. Brooker was there at the time. She came under Mr. Brider.

Mr. Selmo was there. Selmo and I worked together at Dunbar Community School under Ms. Stallworth. We worked together so I knew him well. He was assistant principal over there.

	V:	At Fort Myers High?



	W:	Yes. He had people in line who were not only well versed in how to handle situations like that but they came from the community and they knew everybody. It’s kind of wonderful when you know all the kids, and they knew everybody. I can put myself in that thing too. Now I look, “Where did all these kids come from?” But I knew all the families. I can’t say that now, but I knew everybody. So you can talk to them then.

	V:	I think it's really interesting with the dynamic at the schools. Among the high schoolers, they did have a lot of race related issues, but with the younger students you didn't really see anything like that. Do you think at least integration put a hold on the prejudice that a lot of the students had as they grew up?

	W:	Sure. I saw it. I was in it, I was involved in it. Oh my goodness, yes! I stayed at Fort Myers Middle School for thirty two years, if not thirty three. I spent most of my time at Fort Myers Middle School. I had the opportunity to see integration of the high schools take place and the movement and how they improved — I would





be shocked to see anything like that happen. It wasn’t a big thing like people killing one another or kids getting kicked out of school for months on end. It was just a spur of the moment fights break out, problems had to be solved. I think that they did a good job of getting it solved. That's not to say we eradicated prejudices and stuff like that. It’s here. It’s still here today but kids learn how to adjust and learn to live together. Kids learn quicker than adults. That’s what I learned. Even at my school, kids learned quick. I was always Mr. White to all of them. I had one or two guys who said “Fred” and I said “No.” This prejudice is learned. Kids are not born with that. They’re learned behaviors and if you put them in an environment where you just let them coexist with one another, they learn how to appreciate one another. You’ll always have the ones who get disciplined and that’s going to happen. You just try to eradicate it by putting them in different learning experiences, I think. It took them [Inaudible.] That’s another story.

People my age would just leave people alone. I’ll be seventy-seven in October. People my age would just leave the folks alone. Get rid of all the biases we had growing , all this separatism and come to learn how to love one another and we wouldn't have this problem. Trump is in his seventies and he’s trying to go back to the eighteenth century. Anyway, we learn how to coexist. There’s a whole lot of things that I think still need to be done in this community if we’re gonna see major progress. There’s a lot of things that need to be addressed.

	V:	What are those things? During the [19]70s, the community here achieved integration but what was left unsolved? What still needed to happen?





	W:	Housing was one of the things that was left unsolved. Many parts of education, educating all the kids, writing curricular things were left unsolved and it was just dumped on people coming in. The system itself — trying to enlighten the system of how they should operate rather than how they operate. Not attending to those things that we need to be attending to.

	V:	Do you think that would be more of an issue of representation or just about the system itself?

	W:	Absolutely. It’s systemic injustices. I think what we’re seeing in Fort Myers now is an accumulation of things that some of the older ones of us did not solve.

Examples like, you look at the school board. Come on. The school board can do something about this. This is the twenty-first century and you still have a predominantly all White school board.

	V:	Despite the fact that we have many predominantly historically Black high schools in the area.

	W:	Yeah. Let’s look at the County Commissioners having never elected a county commissioner because you want to design it where people feel like a part of it. When people feel like they got representation, then they feel a part. It makes you even better. I would go so far as to say, change the way you do it as fashion of life or don’t do it at all. You got a diverse society that lives in Lee County now. It’s made up of people from South America, Cuba, Puerto Rico, all over.

Somebody gotta start thinking in the twenty-first century and change things. As long as we get this thing about “I can't care for you because of where you come





from, what you look like, what color you are,” we’re gonna have a problem. We’ve come a long way, but we can do a lot better. I’ve been working with a group now with twelve or thirteen churches called Life Interfaith for Justice Empowerment. That’s only to look at instances of systemic injustices and trying to solve ways we can work better in the community and get things done. I think if it’s anything that’s holding us back in Lee County, and Fort Myers, it’s that. I don’t have time to argue whether the Robert E. Lee statue should be on Broadway down there. There’s too many other things that are going unsolved. But what makes me a little upset is when you deny the right of the people to discuss those things with you in an intelligent way and you lie about the history of it. You lie about the history of it and you turn it and twist it, and I understand another history of it. That’s gonna be there, because people can’t [Inaudible]. I know, I went to Carolina. Those statues didn't bother me when I looked up at them but I knew why they were there. That didn't stop me from demonstrating. I knew those statues were there as a sign to stand your place. This is still going on. We got too many other important things to do.

	V:	I was going to ask about the housing issue. I’ve heard about it before from several other people. Can you describe what it was like to me? My understanding of the housing issue, and I want to learn more, is it was almost impossible to get a loan for a house or a piece of property. I’ve also heard from James Middlebrooks that a house in Dunbar used to cost as much as a house on McGregor Avenue.





	W:	He would know, he did that kind of work. Let me just give you a little rundown.



We always rented. I can remember renting all our lives from my parents, from Mr.



U. As hard as we worked, you work so hard but you couldn't even get a bed in a hospital. As hard as my parents worked, they couldn't make enough money to even purchase a home and you better not try to get a loan. You couldn't get a loan even though you might invest in the banks. When I first came out of college, I went down to the bank and tried to get three hundred dollars. They told me I had to have my grandmother to sign for me. I said, “I’m working. I can pay for this. All I want is three hundred dollars just to build some credit.” “No,

you gotta get her to sign.” She laughed about it. It wasn’t funny to me but it was almost impossible for any normal hardworking person in this area — when I was growing up, teacher, be it — to build a home. You had to most likely rent it because the bank did not loan you the money. They were not about to invest.

Look at it now, whenever a contractor comes in and says, “I want to build one hundred units.” When we had all this land in the Dunbar community, they wouldn't do it. They’d redline it. They wouldn't do that for the Black community. What changed it a little bit, the military made it so we could get G.I. loans. They built homes out there and those were loaned to them by the government. That’s how they were able to get their homes. My parents were so independent until when they bought government housing and built the projects. Those were some of the best ones they built, off Dolores and Ford Street. My parents were

not gonna go in because they saw this government give-me or something. I came from college and I said, “No. You aint gonna stay in this shack.





You’re gonna live over there in this government home.” I had to take them to the office because they were not gonna do it. They wanted to stay on High Street and they enjoyed that once they got it. Four bedrooms, they took care of that place just like it was their own home. Sidewalks and everything! That was good, but it’s nothing like owning your own. I saw that breakout in the late [19]70s, a few people start building new homes. It really came to fruition in the [19]80s.

People were getting these loans and you saw what eventually happened, caved in, depressions, what have you. In many areas now, it’s probably hard to get a loan to build a home in Dunbar. I don’t know much about that but I even bought my home with the G.I. Bill. I could’ve easily gone out somewhere else once things start opening up. A lot of things I have to explain that to my daughter. “Dad, why is it that you only moved out here and build?” “Listen, I [Inaudible] and I couldn't get a loan and they were not about to have me out of this area because Blacks couldn't live in those areas.” Then when they did start moving in certain areas, people started moving out. It’s a lot better now. I think it’s going to get even better. That G.I. Bill was the leeway into it but it’s kind of a hard subject when you can save money in a bank and you can’t even buy to build a home. I know you have to show collateral. It’s opening up now.

	V:	It really reaffirms my understanding that housing issue here.



	W:	What makes it so bad now is still bad. Why? You ask me and my main thing is that — My mother worked and she worked all the way until she became a board member of the housing authority. She kept working and working and went on up. But when you stop and think about it, if you can't afford and nobody’s trying to





make arrangements to make it even better for you to purchase a home,



you’re gonna always be caught in this. It’s a catch-22 and the key to it is though, and this is going to hit the middle class as well — it is now — teachers have a hard time paying for homes: you got to raise the minimum wages. Everything else keep going up, the 1 percent is still getting all the money, and in the middle, you can't hardly afford to leave fifty dollars — My uncle suffers from dementia but he can remember when fifty-five dollars of groceries could get you anything you wanted. Back in the [19]60s, the city was paying the people fifty-five dollars a week.

	V:	And that would pay for half a week’s worth of groceries.



	W:	Yes! It’s a matter of looking at things we can do. If the government is not — democrats or republicans — they got to do better. People are putting in the time but they’re still trying to undercut them. Now they tell me you have more people working part time. Walmart is good at that. The other major companies are good at part time where you work so many hours and you have to pick up hours somewhere else. What is that all about? But they don't want to pay the wages. The minimum wage should be around now in this twenty-first century fifteen dollars or more. That’s for people to live.

	V:	It’s interesting to hear that because teachers were the pillars of the community, and to my understanding, being a teacher could leave you well off.

	W:	[Laughter]



	V:	Is that wrong?





	W:	You’re right, in a way. Being a teacher can put you in the lower middle class. It can never put you well off. You got to be very prudent with your monies. You can't take no vacations. They’ll leave with a healthcare plan like I have now. You can buy a car and then you could pay for a home over a period of time. When I started teaching school in [19]63, it was a $16,000 contract. You could do a lot with $16,000 but it won't make you wealthy. When you come into the teaching profession, you know you’re not going to be wealthy unless you know how to invest in something else, or work in some other kind of job. Most teachers don’t take that money and invest it, most teachers take that money to live. Teachers should be paid way more than what they’re being paid.

		V:	I could say the same for a lot of other public servants. W:		You hit it dead on the head. Absolutely.

	V:	When I was asking about the things that still need to change, you mentioned the curriculum with students and how that wasn't addressed.

		W:	I still have a problem. V:		Can you describe that?

	W:	My curriculum — I really get upset with this — When I went to high school, my curriculum was centered around the White world. So much so that I had a social studies teacher tell one of my students one time, which was Black, and I loved the social studies teacher. We didn't understand one another when I first came on the job but we got along great. We shared a whole lot. But he actually one time, “Mr. Davenport, why is that you always talking about what this group of





people did but you never say anything about what my people did.” Next thing he said was, “Your people didn’t do anything.” So she told me about it and I went on and talked to Walt and I said, “Have you ever been taught anything about Black history?” He said, “No.” We’re old now but that was back in the early [19]70s. To make a long story short, after I talked to Walt, we put together and every year we did a Black History Month. We’d put it in the cafeteria, pictures, all kinds of stuff. And yet, after all that, I’m still learning of all the things that Blacks and others have accomplished in this country and it’s shocking. Did you know that the lady from the place over there on Canaveral? Did you see that movie? With the data? I grew up never knowing that!

	V:	It was never talked about.



	W:	I could've used that with my kids to motivate my girls. I had a hard time motivating Black girls and White girls to love science. Every year I had a handful and they told me, “I don't like science.” I had to convince them to at least study. I used to set up charts and say if you’re going to be a nurse, you need to learn this now. You’re gonna need the periodic chart if you’re gonna be a doctor now, don’t wait until you get to high school. I always had problems with the curriculum because it didn't address social issues and it got further and further away from them. They had me teaching geography one time — what do I know about geography? Why don’t we teach history like I learned it when I was in school and incorporate all of the things in the history that’s gonna help that kid coming from Haiti, Puerto Rico, Cuba, because I did have kids coming from all those areas.

They would say, “Where do we fit in, Mr. White? Am I Black?” I’d say, “Well, your





ancestors were Black.” You had to always approach it that way. “And you would be considered Black as far as I’m concerned, but if you wanna call yourself Haitian-Black or Haitian, that's fine with me. If you have to fill out this form, you have to tell them what you are.” None of this was in the curriculum so you’re raising a generation of kids who don’t understand anything about their history.

Nothing! They learn about George Washington Carver and Martin Luther King and a few others and that’s the extent of it. Where are the motivating factors? I always say that there was a place that we just changed the curriculum a little bit. I didn’t like the idea of changing curriculum when they had to use broken language, or ebonics. When they came out with that one, I said, “No.” We just have to look at it a different way. If you’re going to buy into something, you got to see yourself in it, right?

	V:	Oh, yeah.



	W:	If you truly want to make American great, you got to see yourself in it. You got to see yourself playing a role in it. I would always say that somebody is going to get smart enough to develop a curriculum that would address maybe not all the problems, but at least 80 percent of what children need to know. For example, let children go to school and teach them Spanish. Start early! We’re living in that kind of demographics now.

	V:	Compared to other kids from across the world where most people learn a second language.





	W:	People still fight about it. “We’re in America now. Speak English!” Come on, we can do better. I would love to see the curriculum change. Science, for example. I would like to see the curriculum through the state of Florida so that you bring scientists. You got so many people that’s retired now. Bring them in to the curriculum and let them just share their experiences. We did that at Fort Myers Middle. We found out we had some scientists and we had them for our science fair. To me that was not enough. I would love to bring them in and say, “Look, I’ll be your student and you teach and we’ll share this assignment for a couple weeks or more. Your experiences, what you’ve learned, job related.” Start, not in elementary school, but maybe high school. Change the curriculum. Make it interesting. They’re doing some things. I haven't been attached to it for a long time now but it’s my hope. I got a nephew, he’s sharp as a tank and I don’t want to hear a story about how he should be in this advanced class. I want all the kids in this advanced class but we need to find out their level of comprehension so we gotta learn how to test more the proper way. I’m testing you so I can find out how to work with you best, not to put you in a dumb class. Kids learn that at a young age.

	V:	That’s the thing, too. It’s separating them into groups: this is the smart group, this is the dumb group.

	W:	I used to use this example all the time. Parents would come in and I’d say, “Don’t parent your child with your other child. That’s the worst mistake you can make.” My brother is a quick learner, and I hated that they were always comparing me. I was older than him. You give it to him and he’d learn it in a day. You give it to me





and it might take a week. That’s not to say I wouldn't learn it, it’s just gonna take me a lot longer. We got too many people in the classroom who don't see that and the curriculum got [Inaudible] everybody. We want to be a successful country but I don’t know if we’ll ever get that in terms of educating our kids. We’ve gone from taking public money and putting it into charter schools. That’s another thing I have a problem with. The two ends don't meet because giving to charter schools is taking away from public schools. there’s so much money you could give out. It’s a mess, as my nephew would say. [Laughter]

	V:	I went to one of the charter schools in Cape Coral and I completely understand [Laughter]. We were talking about representation then and one of the things that needs to change. You were talking about the county commissioners and how we haven't had a Black county commissioner yet. That has something to do with the way that they’re elected. It was a similar issue for Veronica Shoemaker when she was trying to get on the City Council.

	W:	Yes, it has a lot to do with gerrymandering and county commissions open. You run for certain districts but everybody vote. The city is the same way too. Now you can only vote if you live in that district and that's how we were able to change things. That’s a law that came from the courts. We fought it and that got that law put in. Veronica won and that's how she got on. Other than that, Melvin Morgan was one of the best county commissioners we ever had. She was there with Porter Goss and she got that job — I forget the name of the governor that appointed her because there was some crookedness that took place for a lack of words — and she was appointed to that position and served it well. When it came





time for her to run for election, she won her area but countywide, they swept it. They could care less and ran her out of office. We lost such a tremendous servant for the entire Lee County. That’s why I say even with the school board, the school board has the power to open it up so that you can have representation. What do they do? They opened it up but they added five or six but in areas that are way out. It’s going to be interesting. Now they have four or five Blacks that are running for school board. I’m seeing in Miami, Duval, all these other places, are far ahead of us in terms of doing the right thing and they got representation from basically all of their community people. Even if they don't, they got people in there that got the best interest of all the people. I can't say that whole is true for Fort Myers because for my lifetime, the only time you see these guys is when they’re getting ready to run for office. The ones that represent us can do a better job in pushing. In order to accomplish what we need to accomplish, we need more diversity on these boards. Even large corporations see that in order to sell their products in Cuba, in Puerto Rico, around the world, you need some representation that understand the places you wanna deal with. If you want to make a better community, they need to see representation. Kids need to see representation that look like them. It shouldn't be anybody. It should be somebody that is well trained and in command of what is expected. We’ve had that.

	V:	Very wise words. I think I’m going to end the interview. This might be the longest interview I’ve done.

[End of interview]





	Audit-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, February 15, 2021 Final-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, February 23, 2021