AAHP 699; Foxx; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 699 Evelyn Foxx 7-1-2019

Interviewed by Unknown, Charity Kelly, and Kendriana Drayton on July 1, 2019 32 minutes | 14 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Evelyn Foxx, leader of the Alachua County NAACP, reflects on her life and activism efforts for interviewers with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. She remembers attending her first NAACP meeting in her home state of Georgia as an elementary schooler, an event which launched her into a lifelong involvement with the organization. One of her major efforts in Alachua County centered around combating the school-to-prison pipeline, which she defines as a system in which young Black students become trapped in a cycle of incarceration beginning with arrests for minor incidents at school. Foxx notes that the election of President Trump has presented a number of new challenges both for her organization and her personal life, recalling that the day after the election she began receiving death threats from a local White supremacist. After months of harassment—including the placement of a Confederate flag on Foxx’s lawn—the incidents ended with the perpetrator’s arrest.

Foxx reflects that her faith in God’s protection has enabled her continued involvement in the NAACP in spite her receiving numerous threats of violence over her six decades in the organization. Foxx notes the particularly gruesome history of race relations in Alachua County, pointing to a long history of lynching and racial violence in the area as evidence of a continued need for anti-racist activism. She concludes with reflections on the impact of mass incarceration, equating it with slavery and advocating for the need to reduce incarceration and create more robust re-entry programs for released inmates.



Keywords: [Gainesville, Florida, Black community, family history, integration, segregation, Ku Klux Klan, activist, activism, NAACP, National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, White supremacy, racism, mass incarceration, school- to-prison pipeline]



AAHP 699

Interviewee: Evelyn Foxx Interviewer: Unknown Date: July 11, 2019



	U:	Today is July the 11th ,2019. We are here with Mrs. Evelyn Foxx, Ms. Charity Kelly, and also- Kendriana Drayton-

	D:	Kendriana Drayton.



	U:	So Mrs. Evelyn we know you’re the leader of the Alachua County NAACP.



	F:	That is correct I am the president of the Alachua County branch of the NAACP. U:	So what made you decide to get into activism?

	F:		Well it started when I was probably ten or eleven, at home. I’m from a small town in Georgia, Coots Lake, Georgia, I’m from Riceboro, Georgia. –

	U:	Oh wow.



	F:	And my first grade teach— Mrs. Mary Baggs took me to my first NAACP meeting. Umm when I was in probably third or fourth grade-

	U:	Okay –



	F:	So, I kinda grew up, with people who wanted me to be a part of NAACP and it just grew on me. So I have been active in the NAACP forever.

	U:	Okay, um so what are like some of the projct6s that you worked on with the NAACP?



	F:	Well you know the NAACP is a civil rights organization, [inaudible] Civil Rights organization in the world, and there’s been many projects but our mission is to eradicate umm, racism, fight for people, everybody to be equal, receive the same type of treatment. And of course it’s been a long battle from sixty-two years ago when I was a child up until now, and I’ve seen its been revolving during the same thing that happened back when I was a young girl I noticed they’re happening- they’re still happening.





	U:	I read that you were partnering up— I guess with GPD to do almost –I guess it was like a community clean up?

	F:	Well we partnered with GPD on several projects, but our big project was school to prison pipeline. We thought that-to Gainesville I went to a [inaudible] meeting and they talked about the number of African-Americans that were getting into the pipeline for minor things that starts in school. And once you get into that pipeline, mo9st6 blacks cannot get out because it follows you through your lifetime and so we were trying to- well we did work on getting the numbers reduced but that was our big thing that we wanted to do. Keep our African-Americans youth out of the pipeline- the school to prison pipeline.

	U:	Okay, so basically you were trying to reduce the number of I guess write up and stuff in school?

	F:	Well, believe it or not, there were children who were arrested- U:	really –

	F:	Once those things get on your record, it follows you throughout your lifetime.



	U:	Oh wow, so as the president, I seen that you had a couple of incidents where there were like threats to you?

	F:	Yes, there were, that’s a part of my life I will like to forget that it is real. The day after the election of President Trump, like twelve o’clock at night someone would call and said “Nigger we’re going to hang your black ass.” At first, I thought it was a joke but then the person kept on calling me , kept on calling and the last call and I think they made was veterans day. And it really, really had tricking me and my husband, when they called at 1:10 in the morning and identified themselves as the KKK, and that they were going to





hang me. That made me fear for my life and my husband’s because we were the only two at home, I immediately called GPD as soon as morning came, I did not sleep after that incident.

U:   I understand—



	F:	GPD took the report and called the US Marshals and the FBI, got my phone, I had to sign permission for them to use my phone so they could track all of the call that have been coming to me. I guess with all this modern technologies they did, after about a month they identified the gentleman, they said he was a white supremacist, homeless man. His name was Roland and for a year they would miss him by a minute or two, and they could all look for [inaudible] house and they told me to be careful were I go, being in a public place where this person could possible do something to me. Right after it happened, I was so fearful, I went home to Georgia for a week and then after spent a week in Georgia, my kids said “Mommy you need to take a vacation.” So, me and my husband went on a cruise for about seven days for me to collect my myself, and then I realize during that time that I can’t live in fear. So, I came back him to Gainesville, and I maintain the life that I had, I could not just live in fear and be scared go places, and things in that nature. They told me not to talk about it. It was never published in the newspaper they wanted to be as quiet as possible so, that was it, and then on 4th of July, he would call often, but at this time GPD called me and they showed me a picture of the man that was doing all of this. They said he was homeless, and he moves from camp to camp, there were hard to catch that boy. He had very few friends, but there was one man in particular that Identified where he would visit and they almost caught him one time, but he had just left the gentleman’s house. They had a track on his





phone, so they could identify him by where his phone was. That was about it and then the 4th of July in 2016 , I think that’s when President Trump was elected, 4th of July, I walk in the mornings, me my walking partner, Meg Nitaharferd, we were going out about 6/5 morning walk, and [inaudible] I’m an early morning person. I said Meg what is that in the yard, and when we pulled it open, it was a confederate flag. That really freaked me out, it was like everything was happening all over again to us. The FBI and the put up the cameras and they put up pro cams, I really had no privacy because there were cameras everywhere around my house, everywhere I went near my home, I was always under surveillance. That’s not a good a feeling because you live at home, sometimes you want to do things, you know, go on the porch with your night gown , I was afraid to do all of that, because [inaudible] that the surroundings of my house would be surrounded twenty-four hours a day. It made all the big news and everything, which I really didn’t want, but after a year, the detective called me and said “Evelyn we got him” I said [inaudible]. He said “Yeah we found him.” I went to court and I had a chance to- the first court appearance me and my husband went, they did it on a video, they did not actually bring him to the court. But on the second appearance he was actually there, and he apologized, he said he was sorry, he was on drugs. He’s seventy-three years old, he as old as my grandfather, almost, he apologized to the judge at first. Judge Greene, Judge Greene said, “Well you don’t need to apologize to me, you need to apologize to Mrs. Foxx”, he did but he had several outstanding warrants, in Key West , and other places. They pulled it up, he was now [inaudible] people, and he had a big collection of knives and stuff. I just felt that really frightened me after I found that out, but he was in jail at that time. He had been arrested for many people and things of that





nature. He was a very violent criminal from his past history, but I was fortunate, he never got close enough to me where he could any of those things to me. So, he’s no longer in Alachua County, he’s in Key West, Florida serving time for some other outstanding warrants.

	U:	With you being so active in the NAACP, how did your family feel about that? Cause that’s a big burden for them to carry.

	F:	Yeah, yeah, my husband often said, “I hope you don’t get us killed”, people say why you doing this, I said well I have a passion for it, if not me, who? It was a burden, my kids and my sisters and everything, were very, very concerned about me. I’m a Christian, have a strong faith, and I feel like god always protect me against things like that. I mean to her were others before me, like reverend Wright, he had to move from- he was the former president of the NAACP here, during the [inaudible] of [19]60s. He had to move, there was FBI following him, and he got death threats. Not only me, from talking to other people in the NAACP organization throughout the country, some of them go through the same things that I’ve been through, they just want to shut you down, they don’t want us to speak out about things that are wrong and racism and hatred, and the bigotry. Hats a conversation that white folk, some white folk, don’t like to hear about. But we have to continue to talk about it and I think people feel a little more comfortable now that we’re talking about what actually happened. I think it got worst after President Obama was elected; the hatred. But when President Trump got elected, I think the KKK and the other racist group felt that , that gave them the opportunity to say and do what they really felt, because our president sometimes advocate for things like that, so they feel if Trump can do it, why not me? We are living in a terrible [inaudible] especially in Alachua





County there were more lynchings in this county than any other place in Florida, in the country. Some of those people their relatives are still here, and its embedded in their hearts and there really no- nothing we can do about it. Except to talk about it and make people aware that it still exist… it still exist here. You all know the history about The University of Florida, how racist it was and how Dr. Starke was the first all of those things, and it still exist, it still exists? It’s in a different level, but this racism still exist, and we have to work very hard, and this is you all’s world. Now we’re moving off the scene, so it’s going to be left to you all to pick up the manual and fight for the next generation, just like reverend Wright, I, and other people. Y’all have to do that, this is y’alls’ world.

The only reason we’re doing it because we want it to be a better place for generations to come.

	U:	When did you take over the NAACP?



	F:	I am in my fourth term, its [inaudible] term, so this would be my eighth year. Before me there was Dr.Michealboui, and Dr.Boui, is an employee here at University of Florida, and before him there was Ms. Ruth Brown, I’ve only been in Gainesville- I came here in 1994. The NAACP was under the leadership of Ms. Ruth Brown, and then after Ms. Brown, Dr. Michealboui did it for ten years and then I took over after Michealboui for eight years. He stopped in 2010, so I’ve been there from [20]10 until now.

	U:	I also heard that your mother-in-law was one of the elders in Porters



	F:	Yes, she was. Here name was Louis Foxx, she owned a daycare center on seventh street right there in Porters. She was a phenomenal woman, she had sixteen children, she sent all her kids to college, I think except two, did not graduate from college. She was very active in the community because she had all the children. She was active with





the school system because for sixteen or seventeen years, she had children at Lincoln High School. She worked like most Black women did in Alachua County for the White folk, cleaning and taking care of the children. She worked for Dr. Dale

	U:	I heard about him in one of the interviews—



	F:	Ms. Foxx worked for Dr. Dale, and she always told me, talked about her story, she thought it was a prestigious job. The Dale family over there were a prominent family, but from what I could understand, they were very, very good to her and the children. She was a single parent , for a while, I don’t know how she had all the babies, and was a single parent. But it was all for the same person, her husband you know, she would get pregnant and the he would leave [inaudible]. Anyway she started this daycare center with the he4lp of Dr. Dale, she told him that she wanted to retire, and she wanted to start a daycare center. She had a very prosperous business, I don’t think she made a lot of money, but she did help allot of young people who went through the center. Most of them went on to be gifted, in gifted programs in the top of their class. She died 5 years ago, but she voted every election, she would fix found for the Dale family when they had all of the big politicians to come [inaudible]. She would be right there, I think Mrs. Dale was a state committee woman, she said. She was an awesome woman and she lived to be ninety-nine. She was ninety-nine when she passed away. She was active health organizing the female protective society, she was the charter member of Johnson Chapel Church, and she was active up until she was ninety-six or ninety-seven, she went to church every Sunday. She would not miss one election, she voted in every election there was. That was something [inaudible]. My husband is the –I guess he’s, my husband is seventy-one, so he’s the thirteenth child. He’s the thirteenth child, so the





building still exist in Porters , nobody wanted to maintain it, or to deal with the daycare, which was very disappointing to me. The building is standing it’s just standing there in Porters. My husband make sure the grass is cut and everything, but it still stands today

	U:	But nothing, I guess, becomes of it ?



	F:	Nothing becomes of it. Which is so sad, because Ms. Foxx worked so hard with 16 children to maintain that daycare center all these years. Then 3 years after her death, that the family closed it. It was left to the daughters, and none of them actually lives here. they didn’t want to –one sister stayed and ran it for like 2 years and she said it was overwhelming. So, she moved away, and it’s just not daycare anymore.

	U:	Do you have any questions Kendriana?



	D:	[inaudible] just hearing you talk-so when you talk about your teacher that took you to that first NAACP meeting, and you talk about the purpose of the NAACP being to educate, to grow communities. It’s kind of like seeding of something like you said, really early on. With your work here in Alachua County with GPD, maybe even with the school board, how do you feel like your work have grown this county? Like you said there’s a lot of progress to be made, but what kind of gains [inaudible]?

	F:	Well I think one of the big gains is that we have the number for the school to prison pipeline, it has gone down tremendously. I meet with the chief once a month to talk about things. That number has gone down completely. I think we made some strides with the school board because we applicated to have [inaudible 20:45] moved from the administrative building. Kirby of course was a KKK and he was confederate soldier who hated Black people. Throughout collaborating with other organizations, they did remove the name from –we were kind of quiet on moving the confederate statue from





downtown, so that is gone. Sometimes you don’t have to fight so hard openly if you do things properly sometimes speak with people, I think sometimes its better. Even with your president here at the University of Florida, we’ve had many conversations, I meet with them occasionally. We were instrumental I putting out the statistics, we and the United Church of Gainesville, we have a big summit for a week, and I would [inaudible 22:00] the report to discard to the poor. That exposed every area of all the inequities in Alachua County. We are not where we need to be, but at least they know we’re watching there’s somebody who have their eyes on them all the time. we try to say on things just to make things better. We were able to work to file compliment against or former city manager, Anthony Lions, who was like a lion. Well he was described as a devil, he got rid of so many African Americans that worked in the city for years, for years; and not only African Americans ,and Whites. We have just as many White people calling us about things that’s going on as African Americans. So, we were able to get rid of him, and people have a piece of mind at the city, because your k now people have to work. They can’t oo9penly do some of the things that we do, but they called NAACP and we advocate for them. We have gotten some good things, we’re not where we need to be with the school board, it’s still that climate of the firing of good African Americans. Of course, knowing Dr. Roberts was here , he was excellent, he brought a lot of new programs in. which are still in affect now.

	D:	Can I ask you to say more about those programs? I used to work at A.Quinn Jones as paraprofessional, so I was [inaudible 23:38] education major, tryna like you said, connect this community being aware ab out things that’s going on, but realizing that a





lot of times you’re uncomfortable , or under watch 24/7, and you have to kind of mirror that down. You know I’m begin –being vigilant of you too.

	F:	Yes, yes, but the school system, you know we have – I think they have, out of the two thousand employees, you won’t go into a school in Alachua County and find any more than two or three African American teachers. Period. I think Wegens probably have the most, and that’s-

	D:	And then A.Quinn Jones



	F:	How many did you have to deep print?



	D:	Principal Ferguson, Principal Berna Jones, were both African American but Westwood, like principal Berny is the only African American administrator.

	F:	They don’t have- I mean we live on the two different standards. If African Americans does something disliked, Ms. Bons [inaudible 24:56] Duval, forced into retiring. [Inaudible 25:04]. She bought all the schools up, and she got an F. she got an F , so they’re going to remove her, but I’ll go up there and meet a superintendent –

	U:	School board-



	F:	Or parents several times, and the other thing that we’re doing currently that were working very hard with, with Deidra, [inaudible 25:28]. Is to bring African American – should be in curriculum, should be in the school system, should be taught not just for a year. It should be taught year-round because it doesn’t matter what [inaudible 25:46]. African Americans played the major part and they have made great scribes in all the subjects. So, we’re working on that right now with Deidra, and send it to Tony Hill, they did a workshop here I think in April; because I hosted a gathering at my house for them. We’re trying, that is one thing that we been fighting for years, or years, for years. And





hopefully we’ll get that in place, in the next year or so. And we also have an ongoing complaint to the NAACP with the department of justice, about all of the inequities. They know we’re watching them; we’re watching University of Florida as well.

	U:	[inaudible 26:35] finds out?



	F:	There’s a lot of-if you walk round this campus you’ll see all these names of KKK and digests what buildings are names for, and on this campus here, on University of Florida.so those are some of the things we are working on, and it takes time , it’s been going on so long that you just can’t do it in a few years. It’s going to take a lifetime, you all re probably going to have to make sure that happen, cause we’ll gone long. it’s really, really bad.

	U :	[inaudible 27:14]



	F:	Yes, yes, I mean back in the [19]60s, reverend Wright and Charles Chesnutt, and Al Daniels and other people who worked so hard, Rosa Williams and Civil-we couldn’t even vote back then, you know. [Inaudible 27:35] If they were trying to get people registered to vote, now we have the opportunity and people won’t vote. That’s our biggest concerns, one of our biggest concern. We want every person that eligible to vote, to please do so. And the NAACP along with [inaudible 27:57] lead the charge to the Amendment 4, where convicted felons, and this legislation , and our new Governor there are putting all these stipulations if you’re fine, you have to pay it before you’re able to vote. So, the NAACP is fighting it –now they have their language on the ballot said nothing about if you owe fines, you know for whatever crime you committed. So, they came up with that and now those people will have to find out how much money they owe. In facts, we were advised at our state meeting to make sure we go and get a list of





all the people they’re denying right to vote and see what their fines are. Hopefully, we will be able to do something to help them with the fines, or maybe they can reduce them or something like that

	U:	Well, that sounds like poll taxers- F:	Its poll taxers-

	U:	That’s a form of poll taxing -and on top of that you don’t tell the people that they owe these fines.

	F:	Until after this law was passed, and if you all go back and read amendment 4. It says nothing bout, you have to pay all your fines and [inaudible 29:24]. So the legislation this year made that change to Amendment 4, so umm its being [inaudible 29:36] the NAACP, and our legal team, along with other organizations are fighting to that now, because when we voted forward, we got the lower than the people we needed to vote for and it became he law, and now they came up with something still to prevent convicted felons from voting.

	U:	New former voter suppression-



	F:	New former voter suppression because they know that over 90 percent of the people that this law is going to affect are African-Americans, so we are just-people are happy, and the numbers are still low with the convicted felons trying to register so we go to do all that before the 2020 election. There gonna come up with a plan [inaudible 30:34] national office stat, to give us some directions on how we get these people register to vote.

	U:	Okay.





	F:	And umm it’s just sad the way we’re locked up, I mean Is a money-making business for some people. There are actually more African –Americans in prison, then there’s ever been during slavery. We never had this many slave as we have African Americans incarcerated at this time, and that itself is sickening. We talked about slaver and all those things but this a different type of slavery. They have us locked up, over 90% of the prison population African-Americans, we’re more than slaves. Slavery was a bad part of our history back then, but we still have it now with all the incarcerated African Americans . it’s worse than slavery, [inaudible 31:41], it’s hard for them to get a job, because they have this record. So, we are enslaved people, we are still enslaved in America. So, that’s why we need you all to be out there working, advocating, and telling young people ; hey this is our world, we have a make a difference .

	U:	Anything else-



	U:	No that’s good, thank you.



		U:		Well this concludes our interview— F:	Thank you.

	U:	I want to say thank you, it was an honor and a privilege to interview you. F:	Okay, okay.

	U:	Yes ma’am. [End of interview]

Transcribed by: Jerlda Fleurima, September 17, 2019 Audit-Edited by: Sandra Romero, February 25, 2021