AAHP 058C; Simmons; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 058C Gwendolyn Zoharah Simmons Interviewed by Juliette Barbera on December 20, 2018 1 hour 23 minutes | 33 pages



Abstract: In this continuation of previous interviews, Dr. Simmons talks about her observation of the Black Campus Movement that was taking place that took place on her college campus at Spellman. She became involved with SNCC in her freshman year and in her sophomore year, she was elected to it coordinating committee. As a part of the coordinating committee she was selected to start the Freedom School in Laurel, Mississippi. She describes her time in Mississippi as director of the school and her involvement in politics. She eventually came to the University of Florida as a professor gives an account of the struggle of Black student life through the eyes of a professor.



Keywords: [African American History; Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee; Laurel, Mississippi; University of Florida;]



Standards:

	SS.912.A.7.5 Social activism

	SS.912.A.7.5 Civil rights tactics

	SS.912.A.7.6 Assess key figures and organizations in shaping the Civil Rights Movement and Black Power Movement.

	SS.912.A.7.7 Freedom Rides

	SS.912.A.7.7 Freedom Summer



AAHP-058C

Interviewee: Gwendolyn Zoharah Simmons Interviewer: Juliette Barbera

	Date of Interview: December 20, 2018 S:	Okay.

	B:	Okay. We can get started. And so, I know in 2009 and 2012 the Oral History Program had the opportunity to interview you. And you talked about growing up in Memphis and your involvement in the Civil Rights Movement and what it was like there. And so, in this one I would like to focus more on—maybe your reflections about campus student movements that are tied to freedom movements. So I think it’ll give us not only a historical perspective, but more contemporary as well. We can get started, and I can introduce us into the recorder.

	S:	Okay.



	B:	And so today is December 20, 2018. I’m here with Dr. Simmons, doing a phone interview. Can you please say and spell your full name?

	S:	Okay. It’s Gwendolyn, G-W-E-N-D-O-L-Y-N, Zoharah, Z-O-H-A-R-A-H, Simmons, S-I-M-M-O-N-S.

	B:	Okay. Thank you Dr. Simmons. And so, I guess a little bit of background. In reading Dr. Kendi’s book, he mentions The Black Campus Movement and he presents this information in his book. So maybe someone as yourself, who may recall this era of the late 1960s and [19]70s, and maybe even what preceded before then, and what happened after that in terms of what you have observed. Like a firsthand experience of what perhaps Dr. Kendi describes in his book as The Black Campus Movement. You had mentioned in a prior conversation that you had some reflections on observing it. So I just wanted to get your observations. Can you tell us about what you saw on the college campus that you mentioned—I believe it was Temple?







	S:	Yeah. Well, let me just say that I was a peripheral activist in that particular phase of what I call the long Black freedom movement, which—I’m happy—I got Dr. Kendi’s book hoping to have a chance to look at it and only got through the first chapter, which was so eye-opening for me because, of course, he gives in his book on The Black Campus Movement the long history of Black struggle around education. So, I look forward to reading the rest of the book. But, to get back to my own involvement, I think it is important to talk about the movement—the 20th century Civil Rights Movement that evolved into the Black Power movement. And of course it was during that period that The Black Campus Movement erupted onto the world stage. Certainly the Civil Rights Movement, and the fact that it was the 20th century phase of it, was really initiated by the students sitting-in. College students sitting-in, at a HBCU in North Carolina in Durham—not Durham. What is it? What is it? God. Greensborough. In Greensborough, North Carolina. So, these four young men sat in, and of course, that just was like the spark that ignited students across the South—primarily Black students joined sometimes by White allies from White colleges and universities in the South. It exploded across the South, with people in the North starting to demonstrate outside of Woolworth’s and Kresge’s and other places that these students were sitting-in. Lunch counters in the South. So, anyway, out of that flurry of movement activity, SNCC was born thanks to Ella Baker. Seeing that this was an important set of events that seem to have been spontaneously happening across the South, and that it needed to be harnessed. And so it was her vision that enabled there to be this conference in Raleigh. At Shaw University, her alma mater. And she was able to get eight-hundred dollars from the Southern Christian Leadership Conference to host this meeting. And I think it was







close to three-hundred student activists—primarily Black with White allies—joined together at that meeting. And as a result of, again, Ms. Baker’s insight, she urged them not to become a youth wing of SCLC, or CORE, or the NAACP—but to form their own organization, which they did. Which, of course, was SNCC. The Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee. So, then, we have the Freedom Rides. The Freedom Rides were also mostly students that engaged in those perilous trips. Interstate travel where they were beaten and jailed and almost killed. Certainly Anniston, Alabama, we had a bus set on fire with all of the people inside. The plan, of course, was to kill them all. So, these students are becoming more and more radicalized and a number of the students who had been engaged in the sit-ins and the Freedom Rides dropped out of being full- time students to work full-time in the movement. But, at the same time, it’s important to know that the name Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee—the Coordinating Committee part of the name relates to the fact that—I guess you could almost put people to think about it—it was like the Board of Trustees. That’s what the Coordinating Committee was for SNCC. And it was made up of students who were still students at colleges and universities—Black colleges and universities across the South. And this is how I initially came into being a part of SNCC. Because as a student activist in Atlanta, as a Spelman college student, I had gotten involved in the sit-ins. And so, in my freshman year, which was in 1962—[19]62, [19]63 was my freshman year. Then [19]63, [19]64, my sophomore year. And I was elected in my sophomore year to be on that Coordinating Committee. Each college that was a part of this sent two representatives to serve on this board, if you will, that helped to make decisions about what SNCC would be doing in the next months and years, it was hoped. And so, of course, once I







actually became involved as a member, then I began to understand the inner workings of SNCC and meeting people who had dropped out of school to work full-time. Or, had either graduated in some cases—like John Lewis had already graduated, Stokely Carmichael had already graduated. So not everybody had dropped out, but some had actually graduated and then become full-time workers. Now, speeding ahead to the Black Power movement after SNCC had helped the local people in Mississippi—the state of Mississippi—organize the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party as a part of the 1964 Freedom Summer Project. And, let me just add that as a member of the Coordinating Committee—a student at Spelman—I learned of the plans to take up to one thousand college students into Mississippi to work in Mississippi Freedom Summer. And I felt, the more I learned about it—especially after meeting a lot of the organizers from Mississippi—I had to go myself and be a part of that. Anyway, I did go and I was assigned to Laurel, Mississippi, to be the Freedom School coordinator that was one of the three foci of Mississippi Freedom Summer. One was to get as many Black people registered to vote as possible, to start Freedom Schools, and to organize the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party. So, the party was organized—my town and county was very involved in that. We sent representatives to both Jackson—to the statewide convention—and we also had two people to go to Washington, D.C., as a part of that delegation. Not Washington, I’m sorry. To Atlantic City. To the 1964 Democratic Convention. Our MFDP went to the convention with the plan of supplanting the racist Democratic regulars who had done everything in their power to keep Black people from being involved in the process. And people were stunned that with all of the thousands of people—we had set up a mock registration campaign—since you could be killed in







many cases in Mississippi for even trying to register to vote. And so we set up a mock registration campaign so that people who wanted to register to vote, but because they would be killed or lose their jobs, have their houses burned down—participated in our mock registration which we held in churches, beauty and barber shops, at the SNCC offices, called Cofol offices, et cetera. And we had collected thousands of registration forms that people had filled out. And these we took to Atlantic City to show to the Credentials Committee that we have thousands of people. Not only Black people, but some White people. And we truly represent the state of Mississippi for the Democratic Party. In spite of that, they sat the regulars and offered a puny two observer seats to the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party. And of course the party, led by Mrs. Fanny Lou Hamer and others, rejected two seats as observers. When we got back to Mississippi, many people felt that the democratic process obviously did not work for Black people, even if you played by the rules. And people began talking about—we need other forms of ways of showing our displeasure with the racism and the oppression that we live under. And that you can only gain that through having power. And so the whole idea of Black Power was—it was always there, but it really sort of bubbled up to the top of many people’s consciousness. And then, after James Meredith had initiated his March Against Fear and was shot early in that march, as he had set out from Memphis to walk from Memphis to Jackson in defiance of the racism and the violence, and to show Black people that they should register to vote no matter how dangerous it was. That they should not relent from that goal. Anyway, he was shot and seriously wounded. Thank goodness, not killed. And then SNCC people, SCLC people, NAACP people, CORE people, said, “We have to take that march up. We cannot let the violent racist terrorists







win.” And so they took up the march that Meredith had planned. And in Greenwood, Mississippi, during a rally, Stokely Carmichael of course called out, “Black Power.” And all of the young people, and lot of the older people, too—I wasn’t there, this is just my hearing about it and all of that. People just loved it and was just enthusiastic over this whole idea of Black Power. So that caught on across the country in the African American community, in spite of the way the media and many of your Black—even Civil Rights leaders—were very upset with that whole idea of Black Power. Needless to say, White people called it reverse racism. They tried to say that SNCC had become like the Ku Klux Klan. I mean, just crazy stuff. But anyway, for the Black community and many allies, they understood that, yes, this is exactly what’s needed. So on that, you had that sort of political side of it that began to be seen as organizing for Black Power. And we’re talking about electoral power as well as economic power. It never had any violent connotations associated with it. Then, on the other side, so to speak, you had a resurgence of Black consciousness. And this had to do with addressing the years and years—centuries—of racist significations of what it meant to be a person of African descent. And that included everything from your skin, your hair, the shape of your nose, your lips—everything is ugly and detestable, and the only thing that is beautiful is White. And you had the Black Consciousness Movement that arose at the same time that the Black Power idea had caught on. And so then you started hearing, “Black is beautiful.” Black women stopped straightening their hair, started wearing naturals, afros. Black people started embracing the whole idea of being an African people, looking into the history of Africa. That Africa is not what we’ve been taught to believe through the Tarzan movies and all these other movies. That they’re cannibals, they have bones in







their noses, they’re naked, savage beasts, et cetera, et cetera. Which is what we all had been taught. I know that’s exactly—having sat through so many Tarzan movies every Saturday, which is when we went to the movies, to the segregated movies. The Tarzan show ran in serial. And so you saw it every weekend. So this is the image that we had of Africa. The only image on the big screen. Not to mention what was being shown to us on the small screens. Amos and Andy, Blackface, Minstrelsy, all of this. So, Black Consciousness along with Black Power rises up in the hearts and minds of Black people across this country. In conjunction with that began the demand for Black studies. That we have been taught lies and garbage for hundreds of years. And in our schools, even in our historic Black colleges and universities, we don’t have African American studies. We’re not even taught the history of Africa or the history of African Americans in the long struggle for justice. So, in this Black student, Black Consciousness, Black Campus Movement, was another part of Black Power and Black Consciousness, and affirmation of our African identity and heritage. This was a part of it. Now, I saw that, I witnessed that. And certainly, at the point that I was peripherally involved was after having left SNCC. Had spent two years working for the National Council of Negro Women in a Black Women’s Project. And during my last year in SNCC, in Atlanta, where I was Assistant Director of the Atlanta Project of SNCC, I had met another SNCC organizer named Michael Simmons. And he and I got married while we were in Atlanta. Let me just back up, it’s important. He refused to go to Vietnam. And when he got his induction notice, he—along with a number of us—went to the induction center with him and he turned that induction notice in with a letter saying, “I am not going to Vietnam to fight and possibly die for democracy in Vietnam when we do not have democracy here in the







US. I have been working for a number of years on getting democracy for Black people and I will continue to do that.” He was, of course, charged with draft evasion and was— after a number of court cases—he was sentenced to three and a half years in federal prison for being a draft dodger. So, to go back to my chronicle, we—he and I—after being in SNCC, we had gone to Chicago, where I was working as the Midwest Coordinator for the National Council of Negro Women. And then, on a project called Project Woman Power that was organizing women across the US. Black women for social change. And I was the Midwest Coordinator for that. After that project finished, we had moved back to Philadelphia because Michael wanted to go to the Lewisburg Prison to serve his time, because he is a Philadelphian and his parents and brother and close relatives all lived in Philadelphia. So he wanted to be in a prison in the state and Lewisburg was the closest federal prison, so that his family could visit. And therefore we moved to Philadelphia. Back, for him, to Philadelphia. And while he was out on bail, and the SNCC lawyers were trying to get the case overturned—they actually took it to the Supreme Court twice. But the Supreme Court refused to hear the case. So, that kept him on the ground for a few years. And we were in Philadelphia, and Michael had returned to Temple University. He had done two years at Temple and dropped out to work full-time in SNCC. And so he went back to Temple. And when he got there, became very involved with organizing the Black Student Union at Temple. I was a new mother. We had a brand new baby. And I was not a student. So I was a full-time mother and homemaker, so to speak. And Michael was working and also attending Temple and got very involved. I went up there for some of the meetings. I also went up to Temple to join the picket lines and demonstrations that they were having. And often, some of the







meetings happened in our home, where they were planning their strategies, et cetera. I had given you the name of two people that I thought you should definitely interview, who were key players in the Temple struggle for Black studies, as was Michael Simmons, who lives in Europe, but is home for the holidays. So that’s someone else. I have no idea what his schedule is—if he’ll be gone by the time you get back. But with Skype and Zoom you might want to interview him, even though he’s over in Budapest, of all places, where he lives. And has lived for many years. But that’s sort of a long story of the background as I witnessed it, to The Black Campus Movement. I also just need to add that another person that I really encourage you to interview is James Garrett. We call him Jimmy. He was in Laurel, Mississippi, with me in the Mississippi Freedom Summer Project. He was very involved in the San Francisco State Black Campus Movement. He would be a great person to interview, as was the acclaimed poet and writer, Sonia Sanchez. She was very involved in that movement there. She is a friend and I certainly can get you in touch with her and with Jimmy Garrett. We stayed in touch over these years.

	B:	That’d be great.



	S:	Let’s see if there’s any additional questions that come to your mind.



	B:	Oh, yeah, definitely. This was really great to hear about the Campus Movement not just on the grounds on campus, but to understand the way that you explained it— just, I don’t know what the words are—but it really informed me a lot and allowed me to see this from more of a different perspective. It’s just really, really great that you’re able to share this information. I do have some additional questions. I guess when I speak to the other persons that you recommended, they can tell me a little bit more about







Temple, but I was wondering as a staff member here at UF, what have you heard about the Black Campus Movement as it occurred on this campus? Have you ever heard about that?

	S:	You know, I have. And I just could not find a Dr. Deddy Dowdell? You must have her book as a part of your resources for this project. Do you have her book?

	B:	Yes, we have a copy in the office but I believe it’s a library copy.



	S:	Oh, okay. Cause I bought it and I just haven’t been able to find it. I have so many books here in the whole house, as well as at the university, cause I wanted to look at that to try and refresh my memory. Because, of course, I wasn’t here and I don’t know a lot about it. I hope you have or will be interviewing some of those people who were involved in that movement to desegregate the schools here. I did go over just two days ago to see the exhibit at the Smathers museum that came down yesterday. It was primarily about Lincoln Middle School and the Black Teachers Association of Florida.

	Did you get to see that? Were you there for the opening of that? B:	Oh, no, I wasn’t there. But—

	S:	Oh. Did you get to see it, even?



	B:	No, no. I’ve been hearing about the Smathers museum but I hadn’t heard about the event for—

	S:	Oh, wow. It is amazing. Yeah, they took it down yesterday. I was out of town. I guess it was up for about two months. But the—it just was so eye-opening. They only had a small section on the integration of Gainesville. I’m sorry, UF. And they did have a timeline and all of that about the first person to even apply. And they had the list of all the people who had applied and were turned down. That certainly different from the







movement itself, but it was very informative. I talked to Flo Turcotte—is her name. She is a librarian at Smathers and was co-curator for this—what do you call it? You know, the display. They have a name. What do you call these things in the museums when they set up these—

	B:	I’m not sure, it’s been a while. [Laughter]



	S:	Yeah, but you know what I mean. Flo Torcotte is her name and Diedre Houchen. Do you know her?

	B:	Yeah. I believe she’s in the law school? I haven’t met her.



	S:	She works at the law school. She’s a graduate PhD in education. And she did her dissertation on Lincoln Middle School. And they just opened another—I am so mad that I can’t remember the word for what I’m trying to say. A museum exhibit. I can’t think of the real—the name. But they have just opened another exhibit at the A. Quinn Jones Museum. And I was there for that opening. And, of course, that focuses completely on the Lincoln High School and the Black Education Association that was the statewide Association of Black Teachers in the state of Florida. And when integration came, that was just done away with. And that group had a lot of power. I’m going off on a tangent here, but I was so moved by both of these exhibits. The one at Smathers, which has been taken down. But Flo tells me it will be a permanent exhibit online. So one will be able to go to the Smathers library website and this whole thing will be online. And I was so glad to hear that, because I thought, “This is so important.” And for it to just be up and people who can be right here in Gainesville—who even know about it—can see it, and then it goes away! It’s terrible! She says, “Oh, no, no, no. It’ll be there in perpetuity.” So, anyway, Diedre Houchen, who is a post-doc fellow at the law school’s—you know,







they have the Center for the Study of Race and Race Relations at the law school? And Dr. Katheryn Russell-Brown is the director. Are you familiar with it?

	B:	Um-hm.



	S:	Okay. So, Diedre is a post-doc and this is her second year. I think she has one more year as a post-doc there. But, anyway, she’s somebody you may also definitely want to interview if you haven’t. Just about the Gainesville situation, because she’s done a lot of research. Not only on Lincoln High School and how important that school was to the Black community, and when they cut it out, a lot of people kept telling me it was like cutting the heart out of Black community. And that didn’t even make sense to me. I kept thinking, “Well, it was just a school. I mean, why?” I learned much more by going to both those exhibits, because not only you close the school, you fire all the teachers. Because they were not considered good enough to teach in the white schools. And so you totally broke the back of a statewide organization that had some clout! And there’s been nothing developed since that replicates that. This is critical stuff. But, anyway, to go to the little that I know—which is very little—about the struggle to desegregate the University of Florida, both students and teachers. I read Dr. Dowdell’s book when I bought it, when it first came out. And she is a tremendous resource. I hope you all are gonna interview her. Yeah. But I don’t know very much. I just know being there now, it seems like we’re going backwards. The number of African American students is diminishing and it doesn’t seem like anybody’s trying to do anything about it. So, the numbers are lower now than they were, I understand, ten years ago. [Laughter] And somebody—I didn’t cut it out—I hope I might’ve saved it, but you might know that the University of Florida got a D rating recently? Did you see that?







	B:	Yeah, I saw that. Um-hm.



	S:	Okay. And the faculty. Even at the faculty level, there are very, very few African American faculty. And fewer than that with tenure. I don’t even know if there—you probably can count on one hand the number of full professors who are African American. So, it seems like in many ways we have a long way to go. And you might know—I should’ve added in my earlier statements, at Temple the fight produced Black Studies, and it was one of the early PhD programs in African American Studies. And it still is in existence, even though it has been savaged by the institution. Very little support. It has had to battle, and continues to battle, for its life! And this I understand is the case across the country. That the African American Studies programs are sorely under resourced. They have tiny budgets. And when we look at the one here at the University of Florida, for over thirty years it was only a minor. And only in the last three or four years has it been a major. And it’s one of the fastest growing majors in the School of Liberal Arts and Sciences. Operating on a puny budget. Almost no faculty who are tenured. I can’t think of anybody who’s tenured on the main faculty but Dr.

Sharon Austin! And they keep bringing people in here as lecturers, which means they’re on a contract and it’s maybe one year or two years. And the President of the University of Florida, who came here what’s that s school where he was? He was the Provost. Do you know where he came from, Dr. Fuchs?

	B:	Oh, no. It’s been a while. I remember reading it. I think it was somewhere up north.

	S:	Oh, definitely up north. But he did something quite bad up there. B:	Oh, I didn’t know.







	S:	Oh, yeah. Because one of the early Black Studies programs—it was Cornell. It was called the Center for Africana Studies. And it was one of the earlier ones that came out of the fight of the Black Campus Movement. And it had always been a standalone center with a—what do you call it? Its line, its funding line, came directly from the Provost’s office. And it sort of like the difference between African American Studies here at the University of Florida that’s a part of the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences? And so it is under the Dean as opposed to having a direct line to the Provost? And therefore your money is not coming out of a big pot of the Liberal Arts. But you have a separate line of funding. And of course the Center for African Studies here at the University of Florida, which is robust, they are not a part of the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences. They have a direct line to the Provost. And that’s how the Africana Studies program was at Cornell. And Dr. Fuchs changed that. And I remember there was uproar across the United States. I can’t remember how many petitions I signed to Dr. Fuchs trying to get him to stop what he was doing. And so he basically undermined what was one of our premiere Africana Studies programs in this country. So I don’t expect very much that he’s gonna help us here, given what he did there. But all of these programs that have come out of the Black Campus Movement are generally under attack, underfunded, under resourced—both people resources. It’s very sad. It’s still not recognized. At the University of Florida, I know at least on three occasions when we have brought in top- notch people—African American candidates—and because the—I’m sorry I’m confusing here. African American Studies is not a department. It cannot hire its own faculty. The faculty have to be hired by a department. So, you have to be in the Sociology department. That’s where your line is. That’s where you get your tenure. Or you have to







be in English, or you have to be in Religion. You know, you have to be in a department. So this has weakened what African American studies can do. It cannot hire its own people. So, it was so interesting that prior to Dr. Ibram Kendi, we have had a hard time getting people hired. Because in Sociology, we brought in a person who was a sociologist, and they turned him down. He was tenured and they said, no, he couldn’t come in there as tenure. Because many of these departments have no respect for somebody with a PhD in African American Studies. So I was terrified that Dr. Kendi wasn’t gonna get hired, because his PhD is from Temple University in African American Studies. But you may know that he was a spousal hire. So the History department got him free of charge. Because—do you know what I mean by a spousal hire?

	B:	Yeah, like your spouse comes in and so for them to get a job they have to also admit the spouse.

	S:	Exactly. So, she was already hired by the med school. Because she’s a child oncologist. And so she said I’m not coming if you don’t hire my husband. And so the money then comes out of the Provost’s pot and not out of the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences’ pot, or the History department’s pot. So that was one of the main reasons they hired him. I was so tickled that he comes in and becomes the best-known faculty person at the University of Florida because of his book, Stamped from the Beginning, which won him the National Book Award. And just put him on The New York Times, Washington Post, every television—you name it. It was really such a bonus for African American Studies for that to have happened. Because maybe now these White dominated, White controlled departments in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences can stop looking down their noses at somebody who’s got a PhD in African American







Studies. So that’s another tangent I went off on. But, no, it’s a struggle across the country. It’s a struggle here. I was stunned when I got here nineteen years ago to find out we did not have a department. An African American Studies department. And we didn’t even have a major. And you may know that Florida State already had a department. So does University of South Florida. It offers a Masters in African American Studies. I mean, UF—it’s shocking. It’s shocking. That here, the so-called top school in the state, the flagship, has treated this area of study so terribly.

	B:	One question I had when you’re mentioning Black Studies. What was it? So you had mentioned how the structure perhaps and the mentality also—historically, what we have been taught about African Americans, people of the diaspora, and the way the structure is within the university limits the potential because it’s not a standalone, funded, type of structure?

	S:	Right.



	B:	I remember, when I’m reading about the Campus Movements, one of the things—when there is Ethnic Studies programs, for it to be standalone—and even cultural houses I saw in some places. We want this to be standalone, not under the directorship of a university system because there’s a lot of constraints there. So I was wondering, in your opinion, is it possible to have that? Or, I guess, what are your visions in the future of what would be a way to elevate this without so many constraints?

	S:	That’s a good question. Let me just go back a minute to Temple. And I really, really am way out of my depths in trying to remember how they were able to bring this about. But one of the things that Temple Black Studies—Union is what they call themselves I believe. A Black Studies Union. I’m not sure of that, but anyway. Their







demand was to also, in addition to having Black Studies on the campus, they demanded and got funds to do Black Studies in the community. And were able to set up programs that operated at night and on the weekends in community centers where faculty were paid to teach. And this lasted for years. And it was only maybe in the last—I’d say I started hearing that they were trying to take—defund it. And the program was fighting it but they lost the fight. And I cannot even remember the name of it, but it was so popular there in Philadelphia. And they had many people attending those classes. They were free. I don’t know if you got any credit—college credit—for that. But I hadn’t thought about that until you started talking to me about doing an interview. I just had so much on my plate that I haven’t even had a chance to talk to Rafiq. He’s one of the people that I mentioned. Clifford Jeffries was his name then. And he became a Muslim and his name is Rafiq. I’m blanking on the last Arabic part of his last name. But anyway, I tried to see him when I was up in Philadelphia last summer. Cause I really wanted to pick his brain, so to speak, about this. Cause he was one of the main people. He might have been the president of the BSU at that time. But, yeah, you know, a lot of these programs were trying not only to bring Black Studies to the students on campus, but also to reach out to the community. And I know that this program used to have big Kwanzaa events out in town. Of course, Kwanzaa grows out of this whole Black Consciousness, Black Campus Movement of thrust. I forgot to mention that. What’s the man’s name that created Kwanzaa? He’s a professor at the University of Southern California. He has an African name. It’s right on the tip of my tongue. I don’t know if—Kendi. See I didn’t get past the first chapter of Kendi’s book. Does he talk about any of this in the book?

	B:	I’m not sure that he does. I’ve read different parts of the chapters.







	S:	Oh, cause Kwanzaa is a part of this whole Black Consciousness, Black Campus Movement thing. And this program at Temple used to have these large Kwanzaa events for every night of Kwanzaa. And they would bring in this man who founded it for the first night of Kwanzaa. Cause I would be there, and it would be standing room only at one of the—often at one of the large Black churches there in town. Boy. I cannot think of his name. It’ll come to me and I’ll text it to you. But anyway, it was more than just educating college students. It was about educating the Black community about its history as a part of developing Black Consciousness, Black positive consciousness, and Black Power.

Cause another part of it was also building Black institutions. Separate institutions, particularly schools. And this was way before charter schools. But setting up Black independent educational institutions was another thing that sprung off from this whole movement. It was really big. For me to have lived through that period and to see where we are now, and how most of this history is unknown for college-aged young people now. You know, it hurts my heart. It breaks my heart.

	B:	So we’re hoping to make this point very clear in the documentary that we’re working on. Cause finding out about this movement, too, has been very eye-opening to me. And the implications it has in general, outside of the academy. And the ties to the different power movements, the long history that you mentioned. So it makes me think about, I guess, the way the university is structured. There’s so much isolation to be in this little hub of this university and how it has cut ties. The community is not something that is centered, and I don’t think that sometimes students are ever even kind of pushed to do that, or anything like that. Because this type of history isn’t taught.

	S:	Oh, right.







	B:	May even just focus on some extracurriculars, perhaps, and things to advance them individually. And I feel like that is kind of the culture on universities to be the best at whatever you’re doing—or like, advancing yourself, but not necessarily your community. Or that doesn’t even come up.

	S:	Exactly. Exactly.



	B:	We’re hoping to make this very strong point, because a lot of the student movements and things that have happened—community movements—have contributed to advancing people but a lot of things are still held back because of these structures.

And I think the lack of education as well, of what that was all about. You know?



	S:	And the man’s name, by the way, is Ron Karenga. Do you know that name, Dr. Ron Karenga?

	B:	No. I remember seeing this. I think he teaches Pan-African Studies and he had a book and I saw it online, but I can’t remember his name.

	S:	Oh, yes. You definitely wanna check him out in your research. And the guy is— he has two PhDs. [Laughter] He is a brilliant man. And not only was he an educator— and I had my tremendous differences with him—because he now has apologized. But, boy, his sexism, his misogyny, was tremendous. And that was a whole ‘nother part of what went down as a part of this whole Black Consciousness Movement. People— some of the men—were saying, “We’re Africans. And as Africans, the woman walks ten steps behind the man.” Polygamy, cause he had something like five wives, at least. And when he would come to town, he’d bring all his wives with him. [Laughter] I couldn’t stand him. Even though I loved Kwanzaa. I was like, “Well, if this is African culture, I don’t want it.” [Laughter]







	B:	I understand.



	S:	But, of course, many cultures have practiced this and people realized that that was not right. You know? I don’t care who did it. But anyway, Kwanzaa will live on long after him. But I was so amazed to find out after the fact that some people up in Jacksonville had brought him to Jacksonville for a big Kwanzaa celebration. And I found out about it after the fact. Because I definitely would have gone. And I have read about him apologizing for the misogyny and the anti-woman stuff that he also promoted, as a part of the Afrocentric consciousness and all that stuff. So that was an internal struggle that I was engaged in as part of the Black Consciousness movement. Because we had what we called the cultural nationalist and the political nationalist. And for a time, the cultural nationalists were extremely misogynist, claiming that this was the natural order of things in Africa. And that if we were an African people, we had to accept that. That’s another tangential thing. [Laughter]

	B:	Yeah, I can see that playing out. The influence of maybe Western values, into talking about consciousness is kind of counterproductive. But people may be influenced by that by the ways they were socialized, as well. But I’m glad he apologized and hopefully—

	S:	He did, and said it was wrong. But there were some of us feminists and we were just man blasted. And said that we were influenced by European ideals and that feminism was a White, European construct totally opposed to Afrocentrism and all that. So that was another battle. An internal battle that we were having at the same time.

Anyway, I just wanted to throw that out. [Laughter] What I love about being interviewed is the stuff I haven’t thought about or remembered from so many years ago bubbles up.







So I’m always happy to be interviewed. Cause I keep thinking, “I don’t know anything about this.” Cause I kept thinking, “I shouldn’t be interviewed for this.” And yet, a lot is coming up to the memory bank—out of the memory bank I should say.

	B:	You had two pages of questions and you’ve answered them all just by speaking. But I did have one last question. So, we talked about the Black Studies and how that developed in other places. But I was wondering as an affiliated faculty member at the African American Studies program here at UF, what have you heard about the founding of African American Studies here at UF?

	S:	Well, I had the great pleasure of meeting—now, what was his name? B:	Was it Foreman? Ronald Foreman?

	S:	Yes. In fact, I was interviewed by him when I first came from my interviews. Because at one point, they were talking about me being part time in Religion and part time in African American Studies. So I was interviewed by Dr. Foreman and learned from him directly over the years. Cause he was still faculty, and remained faculty for the first—certainly, ten years that I was here. About the long struggle to get Black Studies, and the fact that—like I told you, when I found out that we didn’t even have a department and we didn’t even have a major. I was just—I couldn’t believe it. I’m a graduate of Temple and having this huge PhD program, Masters, and Bachelors at Temple University. In African American Studies. Not to mention, almost every school I knew of had a department in African American Studies! And most of them were degree- granting and some PhD programs. So this was just a shock to me. And so, to learn that to even get what they had gotten, which was a measly minor—and had had that for thirty years. I mean, that tells you a lot about the University of Florida. I mean, it’s







outrageous. And it’s still outrageous. And we still don’t have a department. And over the years that I was here, every year whoever was chairperson of the Center—whatever they call it. It isn’t even a center. It doesn’t have—it’s not a department, it’s not a center, it’s a program. That’s the word. It’s a program. Applied for and I worked on all the forms and everything that you have to work on, to go through the process of becoming a department! And every year it was turned down! They would find some reason to turn it down. It’s been outrageous, Juliette. I mean, I’m almost speechless at this. And of course, if they didn’t do it when the programs were on the rise, and now we’re in a period of retrenchment, where all of the programs are under attack. And people saying, “Oh, we don’t need African American Studies programs anymore because all of the departments are teaching it now. English is teaching it, History is teaching it, Political Science is teaching it, Religion is teaching it—which is a lie. Religion, when I leave, I wonder if there will be—ever—any more African American Studies Religion taught at the University of Florida. Cause I’m the only one who teaches it in the Religion department. So, they are using this. “Oh, you were successful! You fought to integrate African American Studies into the college curriculum, so you no longer need an African American Studies program.”

	B:	I feel like that is a narrative like even if we look at just the campus. “Well, we’ve integrated, so we’re fine now.” They do the same thing as well in [Inaudible 1:03:56] Studies. So did you hear about how it came to be? Cause when I was looking at the website, and I was trying to do archival research here as well. There’s one folder in the special libraries collections but it says African American Studies, but when you open it, is a page or two on African Studies department. So the only information I have now is







what I see on the website, African American Studies program. It talks about when it was founded. But I wasn’t sure if it was founded through student movements, or if it was a university—cause in Kendi’s book, he mentions how some universities ended up, as a way to—what’s the word… appease students after Martin Luther King’s assassination. Some schools started programs or departments, but I wasn’t sure how it played out here at the University of Florida, so I was wondering if you had any background information that you might have heard about over the years of how it became a program to begin with.

	S:	I don’t have any specifics. I did hear that it was a demand made by the students, that this was an effort to appease them. But what’s the other professor? He’s a retired— he was in the English department. And he became an Associate Dean before he retired. African American. Have you interviewed him yet?

	B:	Would it be—it sounds familiar. We had one who—I don’t think it was John Boatright, cause he wasn’t a dean.

	S:	No, no. In his early life, he was a pretty famous basketball player. God! I’m real bad on names. He’s on the African American Studies—what is it called? Do they have a council, or—

	B:	Yeah, they have a group there. I can look on the name on the lists.



S:  Yeah. Oh, my God. He’s a lovely gentleman. Cause he’s one of the last people, see. Cause now we’ve lost—Foreman’s passed away. And now, Dr. Hill Lubin just died last month. She would’ve been a good person to interview. Did you all interview her?

B:  I don’t believe on this topic, no. But we do have an interview with her, but I think it was more on another program she was assisting. Maybe Women’s Studies?







	S:	Oh, okay. Cause she and Foreman were the first Black faculty hired there, at UF. Full time faculty. Tenure track faculty, I should say. No, so this guy is the next one. He seems healthy. He’s very athletic. He comes to all of the African American Studies events. And I’m just blanking on his name. I can see him in my mind’s eye as clear as day.

	B:	Would it be Harry Shaw? S:	Yes!

	B:	Okay, Harry Shaw. Yeah, we’ve interviewed him. I think I asked him a few questions. I have to go back and listen to the recording, but he couldn’t remember—

	S:	Cause he would know a lot of this. He and Dowdell. Y’all have got to get them on the record.

	B:	Okay, definitely. Okay. Do you have any other things we have not touched upon today?

	S:	I don’t think so, because, like I said, I would love to know. And this is not on this particular topic, but I was meeting with Dr. Carol Giardina. I always mess up her last name. It’s an Italian name. Giardina I think is how she pronounces it. Anyway, I learned from her just this week. She was in town. She’s one of the founders of the National Women’s Liberation Organization. But she was a student at UF, and she will be back here in March. She teaches at CUNY up in New York. But she was telling me that there was a real Black Power Movement here in Gainesville. Nobody ever told me that! I was stunned! And she was a student at the University of Florida and she was very involved—she’s White. You know, Italian, and considered White now. They used to not be, by the way. [Laughter] Cause they gradually added all these other groups—lighter-







skinned people into—to make the White group bigger. Italians and others. But, anyway. She was telling me about the student movement of the Civil Rights Movement on the campus. But then she went on to talk about how there was this Black Power Movement. And they had a newsletter called Voices Rising. And I said, “What? How is it possible that I’ve never heard of this?” And she was saying that Carol Thomas, who is White and is in her eighties—and I know you all have interviewed her on some things, but I don’t think you’ve gotten all the stories because Carol was very involved and supportive of the Black Power Movement. And I went to hear Carol give a talk to the National Women’s Liberation group here on Sunday and that’s when I first saw her. She has slides of these Black Voices—it wasn’t called Black. It was just called Voices Rising. I’d never heard of it, the newsletter. One of her slides had the person who was sort of the head of the Black Power Movement here in Gainesville, and nobody knows what happened to him. And it was rumored that he might have been killed here in Gainesville and his body never recovered. I was speechless. I had never heard of any of this. And this man was arrested many, many times until finally he disappeared. But he was the leader of the Black Power Movement. Now, the question is, were there students involved? Did that have anything to do with the rise of the Black Campus Movement here? I have no idea. So that’s another person that you might wanna interview. The Women’s Studies is bringing her here for Women’s Studies Month in March.

	B:	Okay, I’ll reach out.



	S:	So when I know the dates, I’ll let you know so you can set up an interview with her.

	B:	Okay, that’s great.







	S:	Yeah. Carol Giardina. And of course, again, Carol Thomas. We gotta get as much out of Carol cause she just turned what, eighty-four or eighty-five. So she’s someone that definitely needs to be talked to. Now, Connie Hanny. Another octogenarian. She will be here in the month of February. And her husband was a grad student and a TA at the University of Florida, who was kicked out because of his activism. Now, they’re White, but they were radical and that’s somebody else you might want to interview. She will be living with Carol. She and Carol, and a bunch of other progressive people have sort of a freedom house there in Alachua. I mean, they lived in Gainesville during this period. But they had moved to Alachua. So when I first came here eighteen years ago—almost nineteen years—that’s where they were living, and I used to go out and visit with them. And of course they were in town for every progressive event or demonstration. And now, you know, they’re up in their eighties. So, Carol now has to live with her son. She cannot live alone, even though her mind is very good. And so is Connie’s. Connie is on Facebook all the time, and she lives in Maine now with one of her children. But these are people who know—as we say—where the bodies are buried here in Gainesville. Yeah. They should both be interviewed. I’d love to go with you and anybody else if that’s gonna happen. You know, I’m retiring in May and if health—mental health—holds out, I really wanna do a lot of writing, and I do plan to volunteer over there at the Samuel Proctor Oral History, cause I wanna be doing writing about the movement and stuff. So I look forward to going out there with you, and I can also help you set up the meeting with Carol. Cause I’ve offered Carol home hospitality here. I know with them bringing her here, they’re probably gonna put her up in a hotel.

But if she decides to stay over a little bit, I said, “Maybe you can stay a little longer







now?” She teaches, so she doesn’t have a lot of time. But nonetheless, I know she’d probably be willing to be interviewed.

	B:	Um-hm. And you mentioned she’s coming in March? Do you know what date?



	S:	No, I don’t. That’s what I was asking her. I just got an email from her this morning and I am going to write right back, saying, “Tell me when Women’s Studies is scheduling your talk.” We were worried because she was supposed to be speaking at the Matheson. And they cancelled her! And we don’t know why. With no explanation.

She was supposed to give a talk at the Matheson Museum on the history of Women’s Liberation, because Gainesville was a hotbed for the Women’s Liberation Movement, which I did not know until I moved here and met Cathy Sarachild who’s married to Dan Harmeling. I know you guys have interviewed him about the Civil Rights Movement. You know who Dan is, right? He was a White student activist at UF. It’d be interesting to find out from him what he knows about the Black Campus Movement, cause it must’ve grown out of—or been parallel to—what they were doing. Well, initially they were just fighting to get Blacks into UF. So he might have graduated before UF actually had enough Black students to have a movement. But that might be something you wanna talk to him about, also. He will be here—he and Cathy—cause he’s now retired again.

Cause he was teaching at Santa Fe after he’d retired from teaching in the public school system. And Santa Fe was so desperate for somebody who could teach algebra. Cause he’s a math teacher, high school math. So, he taught there for years, but he has now retired from Santa Fe. And his wife, who was in SNCC, and also very much in the beginning of National Women’s Liberation. They live part of the time in New York. And







then they come down here for the winter. So they’ll be here in January. And be here for at least three or four months.

	B:	Okay. And you said that was Dan Harmeling?



	S:	Dan Harmeling, yes. And she’s his wife. Cathy Sarachild. She changed her last name as a part of the Women’s Movement. You know, from having her father’s last name to taking her mother’s first name and putting “child” to it. So that’s where Sarachild comes from. That was sort of a feminist move. [Laughter]

	B:	That’s cool. I was thinking, cause of the documentary. We’re supposed to premiere it during the symposium. I think March 22nd or the 23rd?

	S:	Oh, my god! Wow! Oh, it’s coming up. Oh, well.



	B:	So it’s coming up. So I’m not sure if maybe you’ll be on campus or a day that you have availability, and Carol as well. Maybe we can do a video interview? And then when you come back to volunteer here, maybe next year, we can continue doing more interviews on the Black Power Movement.

	S:	Okay!



	B:	In terms of the documentaries, it’d be great to have some information about this. Because one thing that I hope that does not happen with the documentary—you know how there’s a long movement and also the incorporation of before the Black Power Movement, what happened prior to that. I wanna incorporate that as much as possible. Gainesville history was happening with the sit-ins here as well. So, incorporating a little bit of that would be great, or maybe we could even use this part of this recording where you mentioned it, as part of that. But if it’s possible I would like to sit down and have a







video chat before March. Cause that way, maybe we can incorporate more of that information about prior to the Campus Movement here—how all that developed.

	S:	Well, first of all, these people—for instance, I just heard from Cathy. We’re in touch all the time. And she was emailing me to say they’d be here in early January. Now, it’s Dan who you’d wanna talk to about this. So that would be possible in January. And Carol is there all the time. So that means we could talk to her in January. Once you get back.

	B:	Okay, sounds good. I know you have a busy schedule, so if you have a certain days where are open, we can suggest that to them.

	S:	Okay, well let me know when you’re coming back, because been promising to go out there to High Springs, which is about fifty miles from here, to see Carol. And so when you know when you’re back. Of course the first few days of class are always hectic for both of us. Are you still taking classes, or are you just—

	B:	I’ve stopped with coursework but I occasionally take some. If they already have an itinerary set up—I didn’t buy my return ticket yet, so I can technically come anytime. So if you wanted to do before classes start, I can make sure I’m in town.

	S:	Better for me. Before classes start and I get crazy again, you know? But yeah. B:	If you have a day in mind, at least like three or four days ahead, if you let me know I can make sure I’m back in town so we can go ahead and do those interviews and meet with them.

	S:	Okay. Let me text Carol. I saw Carol recently and she didn’t make any mention about travelling over the holidays. So I’ll be in touch with her, and start talking to her about this period and for her to start remembering. Cause guess what else I learned







that I had not heard? They had riots here in Gainesville! Had you heard anything about that?

	B:	I hadn’t heard anything about that, no.



	S:	Me, either! And they burned down stores on Fifth Avenue that were owned by White people. I said, “You got to be kidding me.” Now, here I been here all these years, around movement-type people. Nobody ever mentioned. I learned that Monday.

Monday! And so she was saying, “Well, if you just went to the newspaper archive, it was all over the papers.” And I said “Well you know, I don’t do African-American History so I’ve never had reason to be searching for this stuff.” This is some of the quietest kept stuff I have ever heard of in my life! I just cannot believe it and the possible killing of the leader? I mean, I was stunned. Nobody had mentioned that.

	B:	Did they mention the name of the student?



	S:	Yeah he was not a student by the way. He was an activist and he was the leader of the Black Power Movement here in Gainesville and I took notes of her talk and so I have it in my notes. So I can text that to you.

	B:	Okay.



	S:	But she had a slideshow presentation that she made on Sunday morning to the National Women’s Liberation Group and I went to hear that and then she and I had dinner together Monday and I followed up with stuff. I was like “This is all new to me.” She couldn’t believe that I didn’t know any of this stuff. She says “Nobody’s ever mentioned this?” I said “Nobody!” Does Paul know?

	B:	Yeah I don’t know, we should ask him.







	S:	I know! So anyway, I wanna make sure because what’s coming to my mind is that his name was Jeff Galloway but let me look at my notes and I’ll text that to you. B:	Okay thank you.

	S:	Okay, alright then.



	B:	Okay. Is there anything else?



	S:	Not that I can think of. If I think of anything I’ll text it to you. B:	Okay sounds great. Thank you again for this.

	S:	Okay now you have a happy holidays! B:	Thank you.

	S:	Alright and get home safely. Okay. Bye bye.







		Transcribed by: Marissa Volk and Sandra Romero	May 14, 2019 Audit-Edited by:	Sandra Romero	May 15, 2019

		Final Edit by:	Charity Kelly	May 14, 2020