AAHP 088; McMillan; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 088 Janice McMillan

African American History Project (AAHP) Interview conducted by Marna Weston on June 12, 2010.

16 minutes | 11 pages



Abstract: In Fayetteville, North Carolina, Janice McMillan is interviewed at the Armstrong High School reunion for the class of 1964. Ms. McMillan discusses her family lineage and then elaborates on her experiences at Armstrong High School, a Black-only school. Ms. McMillan argues that in her days, school was a place of work while in the present, children lack the same initiative due to their lifestyles at home. Her class produced many leaders, and she contributes this success to the involvement of parents. Following this conversation, Ms. McMillan provides her various reactions to historical events ranging from assassinations to Americans walking on the moon. Lastly, she discusses her initial exposure to Jim Crow and how she responded through activism.



[Keywords: African American History, Education, Family, Cumberland County]



Standards

1¶ SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.

2¶ SS.912.A.2.5 Jim Crow laws



































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 088

Interviewee: Janice McMillan, Elijah McMillan Interviewer: Marna Weston

Date of Interview: June, 12 2010





	W:	This is Marna Weston of the oral history program at the University of Florida in Fayetteville, North Carolina, at the Armstrong High School—from Eastover, North Carolina—1964 Class Reunion. I’m speaking with Mrs. Janice Johnson McMillan. Thank you, Mrs. McMillan, for the interview. Okay, would you please state your date of birth?

	M:	Ninth month, thirteenth day, [19]45. W:	Okay, and where were you born?

	M:	Cumberland County. W:	Stedman? Fayetteville?

	M:	Fayetteville, North Carolina.



	W:	And who were your mother and father?



	M:	My father was Herman Johnson. My mother’s name was Nora Baggett Johnson. W:	And who were her mother and father?

	M:	Roy Baggett and Daisy Baggett.



	W:	And from her mother and father, your grandparents on your mother’s side. Let’s talk about your grandfather for a second. Who were his parents?

	M:	I really—not sure. I mean, because they were kind of living out of town. We didn’t see them that often.

	W:	Okay.



	M:	So, I wouldn’t really—.



	W:	Same thing on the grandmother’s side, or do you know more about them? M:	I know more about my grandmother, than I do on my grandfather’s side.





	W:	Okay. On your grandmother’s side, who were her parents? M:	I mean, more on my father’s side, I’m sorry.

	W:	Okay.



	M:	The parents were Will Johnson and Pearl Johnson.



	W:	Okay. Well, let’s talk about your dad’s parents, then. Who were your dad’s mother and father?

	M:	That was Will Johnson and Pearl Johnson. W:	Okay.

	M:	Okay.



	W:	And what do you know about their parents?



	M:	They were really Indians. They was raised up kind of in the same area. W:	Mmhm. And you are married?

	M:	Yes.



	W:	Okay, tell me about your husband, please?



M:  Elijah McMillan. He was raised up in Fayetteville, North Carolina. His family came from? Your family—

EM: Came from Red Springs, Fairmount, and Lumberton. W:  Red Springs, Fairmount, and Lumberton. Yes.

W:  Okay, now wait a second. Wasn’t Red Springs the basketball rival of Armstrong High School? Because somebody else was telling me that Red Springs was the big rivalry.

M:  We probably played them, but I didn’t play basketball. So. W:  Okay. And didn’t go to the games?





	M:	Yeah, I went to the game, but I didn’t play as a team member; only in the P.E. class.

	W:	So, you had Mr. Pugh. M:	Oh, yes! [Laughter]

	W:	Now, everybody had observations about Mr. Pugh today. What were your thoughts on him?

	M:	Well, I only remember good times. I don’t remember any hectic or bad times. W:	So, he was a good teacher?

	M:	He was a great teacher.



	W:	What were your feelings about seeing him here today, to take his time and come out and participate in the reunion?

	M:	Oh, I thought that was wonderful. I really did.



	W:	Mmhm. And being your keynote speaker, what’d you think about what he had to say?

	M:	It was great.



	W:	As you think back on your time at Armstrong High School, what was the most important thing for you that happened while you were there?

	M:	I can’t remember anything particular, but I do remember while you were there, you went to work. You went to do your best. Not to play. Not to mess around. And you know, you went to class, and you always wanted to be prosperous. And have a great life, and be qualified, and prepare for life itself.

	W:	Mmhm. What was it that brought you here today to this class reunion? M:	To see my old friends and classmates.





	W:	Mmhm. Was there something special about going to Armstrong High School that you think was different from the way kids go to school today?

	M:	Well, everything was totally different. When we went to school, like I said, you went to learn. Today, it’s not that. It’s not like that in some cases. So I hate to say it, but some children are just there, you know? And they may cause trouble from the time they get there until the time they leave. And as far as doing their work, they’re not interested in it. They only interested in being passed from grade to grade. And then some of the parents feel the same way.

	EM:	When we went to school, we came from more of a structured home life. M:	That’s true.

EM: Parents was more involved in the students and stuff—their children, in fact. Yeah. So, some of the nonsense that we see going on now, with the baggy pants, the disrespect—being disrespectful to the teachers and things, these things didn’t go on.

W:   And that was Mr. McMillan, her husband, a graduate of North Carolina A&T. M:   Lot of parents today don’t want to be bothered, when you try to talk with them,

they don’t have time to talk with you. Or, they don’t want to hear—well, I think they feel like the teacher should do it all. They don’t have time to do it.

	W:	Mmhm. Do you think that has to do with the way the schools have changed how—well, I’m just going to throw it out there—when you went to school, schools were segregated? The student government, all the activities, everything was Black kids in the same community. And, this is not to suggest that you were against integration, but I’m just asking you to contrast. Do you think that it was a





different learning environment, and therefore maybe something that helped kids better back then, as opposed to now, or it doesn’t make a difference in your mind?

	M:	I think home life plays a part in this. I mean, yes, I think integration and segregation did have something to do with it, but I think home life now is the main thing. Children go home, they watch TV, they play video games, they go out and play. As far as doing their classwork, there’s too many of them not involved, do not care. They stay up as late as they want to. They come to school the next day, they don’t want to do anything. And they still want to be entertained.

	EM:	And then, too, you have more disruption in the family now at home. We have more of one-family parents in the household, and us being in a military area, you don’t have two people in the household, and then, when you do have, seems like everybody is too busy to really pay attention to the children. These are some of the downfalls in it.

	W:	Do you think that how kids are going to school today is going to affect them later on in life as leaders?

	M:	It has to. If they’re not getting prepared now, are you going to be a great leader later on?

	W:	What is your definition of leadership?



M:  Someone that knows what to do and how to do it, and how to get other people involved. Someone that has something worth listening to, and worth following. Not just anything. Somebody that can help society.





	W:	Many of the people that came to this reunion demonstrated some qualities of leadership; whether they were ministers, or successful in business, they got up and told their story. Do you think that—why are there so many leaders in the Class of [19]64?

	M:	To me, it has to do with the time. 1964, people wanted to do. We wanted to be— our parents wanted better for us than they had for themselves. And when they sent us to school, they sent us to learn. And we strived to be, and to do better, and to make a better life for ourselves. Now, that’s my feeling of it. My mom and dad, they weren’t just—there was nine of us. They wanted to send every single one of us to college. We were poor people, but they still intended to send every single one of us. They wanted better for us than they had for themselves.

	W:	What is your earliest memory of education? Where did you first go to school? M:	Armstrong, first grade through twelfth grade.

	W:	Twelve years at Armstrong. Who was your favorite teacher? And why?



	M:	I really can’t say, because I enjoyed all of them. I really did. I enjoyed all of them, I really did. I can’t really point out any particular person—well, maybe Mr.

Wallace. He was my sixth-grade teacher. He was great. But all of them were great. I mean, they expected the best out of us.

	W:	How did you meet those expectations?



	M:	By working hard. Just working hard, and that’s why I didn’t let anybody down. For me, anything I would start, I tried to finish it. So, just by working hard.

	W:	How did Armstrong High School prepare you for life?





	M:	Well, let me go back to the fact that I worked hard, and tried to get myself to pay, I didn’t play around, didn’t mess around. And my parents, even though they wanted the best for us, they didn’t have to stand over us and ask us, “Did you do your homework?” or whatever. We knew to do it. That was our job.

	W:	I’m basically going to just mention some historic events that have taken place between the time you went to high school and now, or the names of some people. Just give me whatever reaction you have when I mention those names and those people. And if you don’t have a reaction or a remembrance, that’s okay. John F. Kennedy.

	M:	In that case, it was just, to me, greatest thing for Black people at that time.



Helped them to advance and move on, in a positive way.



	W:	Do you remember where you were and what you’d been doing when you heard that he had been killed?

	M:	At school. Mmhm. We turned on the radio and everything, all the teachers turned on the radio, and we were listening to everything.

	W:	Martin Luther King Jr.



	M:	Helped us out quite a lot. I know we’re not where we should be at this point, but hopefully we will continue to go forward.

	W:	Do you remember where you were and what you were doing when you heard that he had been killed?

	M:	Not really. Can’t really say in that case. W:	Third one, I guess, is Robert Kennedy.





	M:	I admired Robert Kennedy, too, because he wanted to kind of carry on his brother’s work and what Martin Luther King stood for.

	W:	And do you remember where you were and what you were doing when you heard he had been killed?

	M:	No, not really.



	W:	Okay. Ronald Reagan.



	M:	[Laughter] He was okay, but nothing—I mean, in that case, he was just president to me. Nothing outstanding.

	W:	Americans walking on the moon. M:	Oh, wonderful! Advancement.

	W:	Barack Obama.



	M:	Greatest thing since sliced bread! [Laughter]



	W:	Did you have a chance to—well, did you vote for him? M:	Oh, definitely so!

	W:	Okay. Was there ever any other choice for you at the time? M:	None whatsoever.

	W:	Why was he such an attractive candidate for you?



	M:	I feel like this is his time, and I had no doubt that he was going to win. Never crossed my mind that he was going to lose. Just like now—all the negative thing that may be happening now doesn’t bother me, because I feel like he was put there for a reason. He can’t solve everything overnight. You know what I’m saying? So, I’m completely satisfied.

	W:	Do you think he has a chance to be re-elected?





	M:	I do. Because I think a lot of these things are going to have themselves worked out by that time. I really do.

	W:	Do you remember the first time you voted? M:	As soon as I became of age.

	W:	And did you have any problems, or you just went right there and voted? M:	I didn’t have any problems, mm-mm.

	W:	Did you ever ride in the back of the buses when they were segregated? M:	No.

	W:	Did you ever use—not at school, but at other places—a segregated restroom, or segregated water fountain?

	M:	I was raised in the country in Fayetteville, North Carolina, and we really didn’t have that problem. I didn’t have to ride the bus because I was out in the country. But after getting married, I did go to Shreveport, Louisiana. Anyway, I wasn’t used to segregation like that, and I went into the front of a restaurant, and the guy told me I had to go around to the back.

	W:	Jim Crow?



	M:	Uh-huh. It frightened me so bad, I went back to the hotel. W:	So, you had never experienced Jim Crow before.

	M:	Nope. Up until—I was a grown person then. And so, I didn’t know how to take that. So I just went back to the hotel.

	W:	And since you were sitting here, sir, and you all were together in Shreveport—I’m imagining—

	M:	No, he wasn’t. He didn’t know me at that point.





	EM:	But I experienced certain things in Greensboro, at S&W Café, Woolworth’s and stuff. I marched on Greensboro, and I was there during the sit-down demonstrations and everything.

	W:	In February, 1960? EM:	Oh, yeah. Mmhm.

	W:	What were your impressions about those times? About what happened then?



	EM:	Well, I felt as though it was a must for me, to participate in it, and stand up and be counted. So, this is what we did. And it was a peaceful demonstration. And we felt as though—I mean, the best thing we could do was to be orderly, and keep down any riots and stuff. So, this is why we had to participate in it.

	W:	Mrs. McMillan, I want to thank you very much for participating in the interview, for letting your husband sit in. [Laughter] On behalf of the oral history program and the University of Florida, we thank you very much. And I like to conclude my interviews by allowing the person who was gracious enough to let us speak with them to offer some concluding comments, whether they be about the interview, or something we didn’t talk about. Whatever you’d like to discuss, and when you finish your remarks, that will conclude our interview.

	M:	Well, we thank you for letting us voice our opinion in selecting us, and we appreciate you coming to the class reunion. And we hope you had a great time, and come back to see us again.

	EM:	And don’t forget to put us in the archives! [Laughter] [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Simone Yuille and Ryan Morini, October 24, 2017 Audit-edited by:	Jennifer Romero November 8, 2017

	Final edited by:	Sandra Romero, June 22, 2021