AAHP 561; Johnson; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 561 Flavius Johnson Interviewed by Ann Smith on March 15, 2018

53 minutes | 32 pages



Abstract: Rev. Flavius Josephus Johnson grew up in Mobile, Alabama. His parents worked for a Jewish family, and that family persuaded his parents to name him after the noted ancient Jewish historian Flavius Josephus. Rev. Johnson went to a mostly-White school for much of his life because of the connection to that family, though later in life he attended the Allen Institute, and went on to matriculate to Alabama State University. He shares his recollections of growing up in Alabama during Jim Crow segregation, and also his memories of his time serving in the U.S. Army during the Korean War, and his work as a Methodist minister after he was discharged.





Keywords: [African American History; Mobile County, Alabama; Alabama State University; Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs); Segregation; Jim Crow South; U.S. Military Veterans; Korean War; Methodist Church]



AAHP 561

Interviewee: Flavius Johnson Interviewer: Ann Smith

Date: March 15, 2018



	S:	My name is Ann Smith, and I’m a volunteer for the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program at the University of Florida, and a volunteer at the Matheson History Museum. We’re at the Matheson Archives and Library building in Gainesville, Florida this morning. And today’s date is March 15th, 2018. And I am here with Reverend Johnson. And, would you give me your whole name?

	J:	Flavius Josephus Johnson.



	S:	You better spell some things for me. [Laughter]



	J:	Flavius. F-L-A-V-I-U-S. J-O-S-E-P-H-U-S. Joseph with a “u-s” on the end. S:	All right. Where did you get the name Flavius?

	J:	Oh, lord. You’re reflecting me back through years and years and years, when I was a little boy. I was named—you have to excuse my, I’m not prone at profanity or none of that, that’s how I was raised. Sometimes I don’t like—now, my mother and father were older than I, and we were working for people. I was born in Mobile, Alabama, and they were employed. I don’t know how they got together and all that, that would lead up to my being named this way, but I was named— they were Jews. Jewish people, I mean real Jewish people. I was named because they thought a lot of my mother and my father, and they wanted me and my brother to be attached in some way through life. They were Jewish, I mean real Jewish—I ain’t talking about [inaudible 2:10]. And they looked, I’m told, and I wasn’t old enough to remember, until they found the name Flavius Josephus, was a tremendous historian, he wrote history.

	S:	Oh, really?





	J:	Yeah. And I was named for him. And I was confirmed in Mobile, Alabama, in a Jewish church.

	S:	What did your father do? J:	He worked.

	S:	What was his work?



	J:	Whatever it is they do. That’s why I don’t like to, you know, talk about this because this kind of stuff is going end-to-end, you know? You asking who and everyone. I went to school, not with Black folk, but with White folk in Mobile, Alabama. But I was named before then.

	S:	Yes.



	J:	I was Flavius Josephus, I was named for the historian. S:	That’s wonderful!

	J:	Not for him, but using his name, you know.



	S:	Uh-huh. And why did the Jewish people have such respect for your parents? J:	Because they do what they told them to do. I don’t know why; you know, the—. S:	Did they work for him?

	J:	Work for who?



	S:	The Jewish people. J:	My father?

	S:	Uh-huh.



	J:	Yeah, he worked for them. He has a middle name because he would drive the car for the older man, that was Metzger. M-E-T-Z-G-E-R. And he would drive him around. That was his job. And then he worked in the yard, digging up roots.





Roots and stuff like that. We’d go out and play, when the children were born—I’m skipping, you know, but I’m trying to be—

	S:	Well, so you went to a Jewish school when you were old enough?



	J:	Yeah. It wasn’t no Black people out there but me and my brother. And then there was a janitor or something. And I’m not decrying that, I’m just telling you what—

	S:	That’s a very unusual childhood for— J:	Yes ma’am, yes ma’am. Very unusual. S:	A unique childhood, I would say.

	J:	Mmhm.



	S:	Was your brother older or younger than you? J:	No, younger, he was younger than I.

	S:	Younger?



	J:	Yeah.



	S:	How much? Was he a baby brother, or just a few years—?



	J:	It was just two of us, my brother and I. And the Metzgers, Leonard Metzger, now they had two: they had a girl, Anna, and a boy. We were like sisters and brothers. I rode the same bus as the White people rode. I didn’t know it. You have to excuse me, I’m just—you asking, and I’m telling you the way I see it.

	S:	And I want to know those stories. That’s your reality.



	J:	Some of it was good, some of it was bad, and I didn’t know it was bad. Yeah, I mean, I’m just saying, just, I wish you wouldn’t write that down; because some of it was good, some of it was bad. We had our relationships just like this; we sat at the table and eat, when they ate; my mother, my father were the servants. We





were with the children. Now, all I can tell you, I mean, that you talking about, is coming to me. Now, I go back and see little Clara, she couldn’t play with us because we were [inaudible 5:57].

	S:	Oh really?



J:   Oh yeah. There’s a lot of intermittent things that, you know, you wouldn’t think of, but when you start to reminiscing and thinking about, things come into your mind, that happened.

S:   Sure.



	J:	And I’d be sitting here all day, talking about that because I enjoy it. [Laughter] S:	Well, where did you live?

	J:	In Mobile, Alabama. S:	No, I mean—

J:  Well, they had the garage, stayed—I mean, where they parked the car? It was just about, I don’t know if it was, I don’t know—and there would be two cars all the time. But we lived over them, that was upstairs.

S:  Oh, so in the same building. J:  Yeah.

S:   Mmhm.



	J:	No, it wasn’t in the same building. We lived over the garage. S:	Over the garage.

	J:	Yeah. When they parked down the lower two cars, we had to go up the side steps and then go inside. But it was friendly, you know.





	S:	Mmhm. What do you remember as a child? What do you remember, did you play games with your brother?

	J:	Oh yeah, we played, brother, yeah; Leonard and I, first time ever rode a motorbike, they call it.

	S:	Oh really?



	J:	Oh, yeah. Went to this White school, can’t think of the name of it; my, time has erased some of that stuff, or hid it in a corner where I can’t get to. And ride, go to school, what do you call them? Military. I went down to school, that’s the school that they went to. And I went there, and my brother. His name was George.

	S:	And were you two the only African American—



	J:	Out of the ones that I see; see, I didn’t pay any attention. We didn’t think about colors or whatnot.

	S:	Yeah, yeah.



	J:	That was just the way of life, and that’s the way we were. My mother and my father, they ran the kitchen and all that other stuff.

	S:	Yeah. And their family, what did the father do in that family?



	J:	He had a store downtown Mobile, right across from S.H. Creditors; the Metzger Brothers Clothing Outlet, three floors.

	S:	Really? Yeah, that makes sense. J:	M-E-T-Z-G-E-R.

	S:	Uh-huh.



	J:	Leonard Metzger.



	S:	Uh-huh. Did you know your grandparents?





	J:	Yeah, distantly.



	S:	Where did they live?



	J:	They lived in Fairhope.



	S:	And that was how far away?



	J:	Oh, let’s see. From Mobile to Fairhope is about twenty-five or thirty miles. You go across the Mobile bay into Fairhope. And that’s where we lived at. They had a beach house into the Mobile bay. When they’d go over across the bay, that’s where they stay. If they go, we would be probably in Mobile. They had two houses; you know, this is kind of, you’d be here all day listening to me talk!

	S:	Well, I’ll tell you what my motive is, is before we get to your adulthood, I kind of want to know who you were, and how you got to be the man you became.

	J:	Okay, okay, okay. Yeah.



	S:	So, you went to high school in Mobile?



	J:	Yeah, but I didn’t go. I come out of that school right—well, I was brought out, I guess—to a private school among Black people at an institute years later. Allen Institute, yeah. Because see, I got into a, what do you call that? We’d ride the bus to the school. I’m trying to get it right. Yeah, we ride the bus. And I got in an argument with one of the little White boys, and I was a little Black boy. Oh, I know what it was about! About overcoat. I had on a overcoat, and that was unusual for Black people. And on the bus, they asked me—can you excuse my language a minute?

	S:	I can.





	J:	All right. And that’s for you too, you know. It’s not a phrase I’m going—little boy made this face; “Well, what the nigger doing on here?” He word it that, and they, you know, that was—and I was young, and didn’t know all about the struggle.

You know, I knew we didn’t live with the White people. So, I hauled up and slap him—they say I slapped him, but I don’t remember doing no slapping. Calling me something that I wasn’t. I didn’t know that I was, or however, you know. And I had to get off the bus, because the driver say, “We don’t”—“We’re not”—it was a—

	S:	Yeah.



	J:	Yeah. It was back when the streetcars was running. S:	Yeah? Yep.

	J:	Yeah.



	S:	Well, how old were you then?



	J:	Oh, lord. Numbers, they have a way of getting away from me. S:	You were in high school then?

	J:	No, I wasn’t in high school. S:	You were little.

	J:	I was relatively small. I know it wasn’t past the fifth or sixth grade. S:	Yeah. And then, did that lead to you going to a private school?

	J:	I think it did. It wasn’t with all of the things that go along around there. I think it did, you know. People could do things, I’m asleep, out there playing. Every time I get with them; they had a motorbike. He’d be riding the motorbike. I’d be out





there planting, they’d be in their truck, my mother would be working, and daddy, he’s digging in the yard. Cutting grass and all that stuff. So, it’s—.

	S:	Well now did you say the school you went to was Allen Institute? J:	That was the Black school.

	S:	That’s the Black school.



	J:	And the other one was a military. I can’t think of the name of it, but it was a military. Way out Government Street.

	S:	Mmhm.



	J:	Yeah.



	S:	And did you like military school?



	J:	I had no other choice. You know, I had nowhere but in the Allen School..



	S:	But that was very different. Did you sleep there at night, or did you just go to class during the day?

	J:	Daytime. In the day— S:	It’s in the daytime.

	J:	Mmhm.



	S:	What kinds of things did you learn? Did you march and do anything military- related?

	J:	No, I don’t remember that stuff. I know we would have a recess and all that, like everybody, I guess everybody else. We’d go, we’d sit our little selves down, over by ourselves, and they sit themselves over by the railroad.

	S:	But you weren’t the only Black boy there?



	J:	Me and my brother were the only two Blacks.





	S:	You really were—oh. Well then, you graduated from there?



	J:	No! Lord, no! Unh-uh. No. After that incident—as far as I can remember, now— after that incident, I was transferred to, in the Black community, on a place called Davis Avenue. That was the big part where Black people lived and celebrated. It was out there. In the Black celebration.

	S:	And that was a high school? J:	No, it was a private school. S:	Uh-huh.

	J:	Allen, the name of it, Allen Institute. And the lady that was in charge of that, started that, was named Allen—what her first name? Josephine. Allen Institute in Mobile, Alabama.

	S:	But you graduated from high school there?



	J:	Yeah. And went to Alabama State Teacher’s College in Montgomery. S:	Tell me what year you were born.

	J:	Now, that’s the part I have trouble with. S:	No, what year were you born.

	J:	Oh, I was born 1928. S:	1928.

	J:	August the 17th.



	S:	Okay. I’m going to have to run to catch up with you, aren’t I? J:	Yeah, you going have about ten, twelve miles here.

	S:	I know it! [Laughter] I know it. When you graduated from high school, was there a ceremony?





	J:	Oh lord, yes! [Laughter] Yes. S:	Were you proud?

	J:	Just as proud as you could be. S:	And were your parents there?

	J:	Yes. Mmhm. And then the school never went, as far as I was concerned, we only had ten grades. Then I went to college, to Alabama State, Montgomery.

	S:	Right after that?



	J:	Yeah, when I got out of high school. And didn’t I have to go through all the stuff that other people went through, because they’d say, “He went to school with the White folk.” You know? I was seventh division or something like that, you know.

	S:	Yeah, yeah. Well now, did your parents pay for that education? J:	Pay? They were working.

	S:	I know. Did you have jobs? How did you pay to go to college? Do you remember?

	J:	I don’t know, I know my daddy, he worked. And some years later I understand that he started working at Brookley Air Force Base in Mobile. Helping them with building fighters. That was a big place when the war was starting, and they were getting ready to do some war.

	S:	Where did he work? J:	At the airport.

	S:	At the airport.



	J:	In Mobile. And that’s where my father worked, but my mother was still working with the Metzgers.





	S:	Uh-huh. Okay, and that’s where he worked later.



	J:	As I told you, I don’t have any need for, personally, for going back there and all that, and I’m talking to you and there’s nothing to it. Little things that jump up to you: don’t you remember? Don’t you remember when you used to have to ride the bus from Fairhope to Mobile to go to school? You were going to college, and then they sent me to Montgomery, to Alabama State. First time I’d been away from home.

	S:	Yeah.



	J:	And they couldn’t pay all the tuition, so I got a job working in the college. S:	What did you do?

	J:	In the laundry.



	S:	Uh-huh.



	J:	You getting stuff, and stuff coming in just as plain to me; I haven’t been back there in a long time. I’m thinking about, “Well, what you want?” Well, it’s hanging up clothes, drying clothes, all that, yeah. And then going to class, and—you carrying me back, I’m just going back this road.

	S:	That’s the whole idea. I’m going to help you. Well I want to know what you studied when you got to college.

	J:	I was majoring, trying to understand, I say majoring in English. S:	Mmhm.

	J:	Yeah.



	S:	And did you like school? J:	I loved it.





S:  Did you? And what did you think you were going to do with your education? Did you have an occupation in mind?

J:   I don’t know that I had an occupation in mind, because—I guess it could’ve been an occupation, I guess. But I didn’t know, I never thought—just, that was life, you know? Like in the military, we would march sometimes.

S:   Well now, were you in the military then?



J:   No! Lord, no! No. I came out, and there was a draft going on. You ever heard of the draft board?

S:   Yes.



	J:	Draft board number two. Across the Mobile Bay I would go, and I caught the train. Went—where’d they go? They had uniforms in there, and then we had to take an examination, and—aw, man.

	S:	Now, how old were you then?



	J:	Hm. I don’t know. And that’s dumb, but I don’t know how old I was at that time. S:	Mmhm. And so you got uniforms. Were you inducted into the Service?

	J:	What does “induct” mean? S:	Did they swear you in?

	J:	[Laughter] Local board number two. That was the board. We had to meet with those people to be examined and all of that.

	S:	Yeah.



	J:	Yeah. Went to the train station in Mobile, and caught the train and went to— Jacksonville? Where was it in? Georgia. Yeah, I went into the Army. Yeah.

	S:	And did you go to boot camp somewhere?





	J:	Mmhm. Sure did. And cleaned up the marching ground after, we used to pick up cigarette butts.

	S:	Was that in Alabama somewhere? J:	No, that was in Georgia.

	S:	In Georgia.



	J:	Camp Stewart.



	S:	Camp Stewart.



	J:	There’s folks knew it now. And believe it or not, my son, one of my sons, went in the Army. He’s taking Basic Training in the same place.

	S:	Is that right?



	J:	He had a rattlesnake big around as that leg right there, yeah. S:	[Laughter]

	J:	And I’m not lying to you! Big snakes!



	S:	Well, did you find it hard, or was it athletic, or did you find that—



	J:	Well you had to drill, you had to drill. Get up any time of the night the Sarge say get up. “Get up!” Yep, yep, yep.

	S:	Yeah. Well now, were you in a division that was all Black men? Was it integrated?

	J:	I’m trying to think. Yeah. But you didn’t stay in there long. They didn’t want no niggers in there. You ever heard that word? That was very offensive to Black people. But I didn’t know what they was talking about, talking about a “nigger.” [Laughter] Oh Lord.

	S:	What were they training you for? What was your—





	J:	Being a soldier. We marched, we marched and carried weapons. We were— S:	Uh-huh.

	J:	Any time of night, Sargent get up: “Up!” And you get up, you had to hit the floor.



Night, daytime, anytime.



	S:	And then where do you go after you finished your Basic Training?



	J:	Well, after we finished Basic Training, they was deciding where they going send us. Florida, Georgia, Louisiana. Well, I ended up in Massachusetts.

	S:	Oh. Oh! Cold weather. J:	Yeah.

	S:	Was this in the wintertime?



	J:	Yes, but I thought it was cold all the time.



	S:	[Laughter] Well, I think you might be right. I think you might be right. J:	Because I don’t like cold. I don’t like it now.

	S:	What was your job? J:	The march.

	S:	Marching.



J:  Yeah, marching, that’s all we did. Trying to get trained. Went from Georgia to Massachusetts, Fort Stewart. When I had the 90-mm aircraft, it was flying the aircraft, we would go and practice.

S:   Anti-aircraft?



	J:	Mmhm. Shoot out across the river—I mean, the ocean. On one side, the United States. On the other side, they were going to Japan. This side, they were going— I don’t know where they were going.





	S:	So, where did you go after that? J:	After I was in the military?

	S:	No, I mean did you go to the West Coast? Did you go to California? J:	Yeah, that’s where we disembarked and went overseas.

	S:	Where did you go first? Do you remember?



	J:	No, because they didn’t tell us where we were going. The ship, or the boat, or whatever it was, was named for a president. And we rode up—first time I had ever been in there. Couldn’t see no land, couldn’t see nothing; just water. You going into the water. And it was a aircraft carrier, because the plane would come and light on the boat.

	S:	That must have been quite an experience—



	J:	It was. Let me use this word: it was a hell of an experience! S:	I bet it was.

	J:	Yeah.



	S:	From somebody from—



	J:	And you want to know an experience that was—oh, I won’t ever want to do that. I don’t ride on no ship, not like that. That big old thing where boats would—I mean planes, would just land on it. [Imitates aircraft noises] And they had a storm out there, and that thing was going under the water. I mean, that big old aircraft carrier.

	S:	Yeah. That must’ve been really frightening. J:	It was scary, too. Yeah.

	S:	And then you got to Korea?





	J:	Yeah, but we didn’t go into Korea, we stayed out in the ocean or whatever, that water, lot of water. And that’s where all of this stuff happened, you know? Me and Sargent Jenkins, this Black man, we went to 369th, triple-A gun battalion.

	S:	Tell me again what it was? 369?



	J:	3—I’m trying to think of the name of it; it was for a president, the aircraft carrier. And they couldn’t go in the land, like everyone. They had special privileges, so stayed way out. We would fly in. [Imitates aircraft noises] Boom! We’d see it light up a long ways. We would do that. We would, they say “Clean the land,” or do something to the land where they going make an invasion. That’s when the Army would go in. But we were out there on the boat. And someone walk in and say, “Where are we?” Says, “We out here on the boat. We come over here to fight, we didn’t come over here for 4th of July, something like that.” That’s where I got injured. Got hurt.

	S:	You got injured? J:	Got hit, yeah.

	S:	Tell me about that.



	J:	There’s nothing I can tell you, but I just, we got Panmunjom, and what was the other place? I’m going on patrol. Seven people; one, two, three, four, five, six, seven. They out, man. They didn’t have the firepower then that they have now. There was a gun you sling over your shoulder, and two things to hold it up like that. And we were on patrol.

	S:	And this was in Korea?





	J:	In Korea. [Inaudible 27:11] The boat they kept—or, I call them boats—they carried the planes, they stayed way out, they were way out in the water. You couldn’t see the land.

	S:	Yeah. So you came in on some kind— J:	Well they’d be fine.

	S:	—some kind of a landing craft.



	J:	Oh yeah, they had boats, boats to go in. They carried troops in. As we were going out, I wanted to go. I started cooking, and believe it or not—no, I don’t want to go over there. The nastiest people in the world. People in Korea. I don’t know about now, but I know then.

	S:	How so?



	J:	The people, they eat dogs. S:	Oh.

	J:	Cook them. Dig a hole and put a dead dog in it, cover him up, and then let him sit in the fire all day, cook for a day or so. All everybody use the same bathroom.

Everybody. I guess I’m going, just giving a whole lot of stuff; going through what’s coming to my mind.

	S:	Well I was going to ask you if you wanted to go back to that story about when you were with seven men?

	J:	Yeah that was a—well, I would say, we were the—the troops. Oh, Lord, what they call it? Well it was seven of us in the patrol. Yeah, one’s the guy wide out, a guy would signal, it was like a—[knocking]: two, four, six, one’s in the—he had the high power, with the—





	S:	A machine gun or something?



	J:	A machine gun. Yeah. This is it, with all that down here. S:	A tripod thing.

	J:	Tripod! Yeah, you been in Service? S:	No, but I’ve talked to a lot of veterans.

	J:	Oh, that’s right; yeah. That’s right. And those guys, all them got killed except Freddie and myself.

	S:	Really?



	J:	Yeah.



	S:	And how did that happen? Did you just not know you were—



	J:	No, we were on patrol, and the guy who was the lookout, he was supposed to tell you about everything, and other people didn’t tell you anything; you supposed to get down, and he was supposed to tell you about everything. He didn’t tell you about nothing. I guess he was trying to hide it, but the BAR, that was the automatic rifle, that was the, two things like that. He wasn’t warned in time, and we were going through—was it [inaudible 30:18]?

	S:	Yeah? Yeah? And you were going through there, or were you dug in there?



	J:	We were there, camped, trying to get a—address; I don’t know what to call it, I’m calling it an “address.” But where they would look, and the guy who was the lookout, he disappeared for some reason. I don’t know whether he was killed or whatnot, but we [inaudible 30:47]. We went to a rice field; that’s the nastiest place in the world! And the people are bending down there, down up under all that. When I come to my—I don’t know what all went on. I know hear pah-pah-





pah-pah! And that’s all that I could remember hearing. But when I woke up, I woke up in an assessment room [inaudible 31:13]. Went to the hospital; I thought I was in Heaven when I woke up.

	S:	Was it shrapnel that you got hit with?



	J:	I don’t know, but it was right before there.



	S:	Is it in your neck?



	J:	Right here.



	S:	Your neck?



	J:	Yeah, you want to see it? See? S:	I can see. Uh-huh.

	J:	That was something. I thought I was in Heaven. I been hearing people in church and everything, you go to church, people sing about, “When I get to Heaven?” I say, “Oh hell no, I ain’t going show it; I want to be reach when I get like that,” you know.

	S:	Well now, what hospital did you go to?



	J:	I don’t know. When I woke up, I saw long strips of light. You know, in the hospital, in the assessing room. And I thought that was Heaven. Lights was on.

	S:	Do you know how long you were there? And were you discharged because of— J:	No, no, no! I stayed down there with this, send me back to Pittsburg, California.

You know this name, Pittsburg, California. I’ll always remember that. Lights come on, I was looking around, “I wonder where I”—and then I say, “You’re in”—I thought I was in Heaven. [Laughter] You know, because all the lights and everything, and people moving around with gauze on, and all of that.







S:



J:

So, they patched you up and said, “Now you go back”?



No, I stayed there for a while, but I didn’t do anything; just recuperating, I guess.

S:

Yes.

J:

And when I really came to my senses and knew where I was, [inaudible 33:29].



And then Pittsburg—and it wasn’t in Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Pennsyl—

S:

Pennsylvania?

J:

Pittsburg, California.

S:

California.

J:

There’s Pittsburg, California. This is California in the war—

S:

I never heard of it, but I believe you.

J:

I ain’t never heard of it either, but that’s where—and from there, I guess then we



came back to the States.

S:

I bet your parents were glad to see you.

J:

I don’t know if—they couldn’t see me.

S:

Did you go back home when you were discharged?

J:

That’s the part that I can’t remember.

S:

You don’t remember that?

J:

I don’t remember that.

S:

Did you write home during the war? Did you write to your parents?

J:

No.

S:

No.

J:

The sweetest woman in the world was my mother, and she couldn’t read or write.

S:

Yeah.





	J:	But you couldn’t take any of her money. S:	[Laughter] She was a smart lady!

	J:	Yeah.



	S:	Well now, when were you discharged from the Service? J:	Now, we getting into something now. I don’t—

	S:	You don’t remember? What I might do— J:	I have a discharge—.

	S:	A card? Some papers? I’m going to let you take this home, because the Library of Congress would like you to fill in what things you can remember, or that you have records about. And you can look them up, or something like that.

	J:	You know I said to myself I wasn’t going bother with those people; they’re in the high places now. Because there’s many times I made applications for this and applications for that.

	S:	So you don’t think so? We’ll see. Okay. Well now, when you got out of the Army, what did you do? Did you go back to school?

	J:	No.



	S:	Did you go to college?



	J:	No, let me see, let me see. No. I went to work. S:	What kind of work?

	J:	Cooking.



	S:	Where? Was that back home? J:	Mmhm.

	S:	In Mobile?





J:  Yeah, Fairhope. That’s right across the bay from Mobile, Fairhope, at the hotel where the Gulf and the bay came together.

S:  Are you a good cook? J:  I’m a very good cook. S:  Do you cook fish?

J:  I love fish, all kinds. Believe me! S:  I bet.

J:   I had some fish this morning, just had a little, little bit of fish. Bigger fish; these two littlest fish were, but they good to eat.

S:   That’s wonderful! Well now, you hadn’t married at that time, had you?



	J:	Yeah, I married when I came back down, and stayed married, I guess, about a month.

	S:	Uh-huh. Was it somebody that you had known before you were in— J:	Yeah, we used to sing in the choir together.

	S:	See? Sure.



	J:	Yeah, but there was no experience there. No.



	S:	And so, were you living then across the bay? Is that where—



	J:	Yeah, my mother and father, they built a house, one of the largest houses—we were considered—they were, because me and my brother, I get out and everything, he stayed there. But my father was working, he started working, and I don’t know whether it was the lumber company or what, Patterson Lumber Company, I believe it was. They built a beautiful home, largest one in the community.





	S:	Well, that’s wonderful! J:	Yeah.

	S:	And so, you lived there with your wife, is that right?



	J:	Yeah, I didn’t live—she didn’t live there in the house with my mother. She had a house, we lived in a house.

	S:	And did you start a family?



	J:	No, I didn’t even know her sexually; I didn’t know whether she was a man or woman.

	S:	[Laughter]



	J:	No, that’s the truth! We sang in the choir together, living separately; a man. S:	How long did you work at that place as a cook?

	J:	I don’t know, I really don’t know. Because sometime we was working the business before, there was a resort—when they would come in, they’d need cooking. And hat place is still operating. The Grand Hotel, they call it.

	S:	Really?



	J:	Yeah.



	S:	That’s wonderful.



	J:	Yeah. And the Bend, where the Bend—the two bodies come together, the Mobile Bend. And the Gulf of Mexico.

	S:	Yes. You get a lot of tourists down there, don’t you? J:	Oh Lord, yeah. They did, yeah.

	S:	That’s right.





	J:	And I think I read, about a year or so ago, that was the cleanest school in the United States, in Fairhope, Alabama.

	S:	Mmhm. Well now, do you have any ill effects from your wounds from—



	J:	Yeah. I’ve been raising hell with them people for all the years I’ve been out. And they can’t find—the last big lie they told, and they stuck with that one, that the wreckage got burned up.

	S:	What kind of trouble do you have? Does it hurt, or— J:	You talking about—

	S:	Your wound, from the war.



	J:	It’s very—right here. I feel it on the other thing, look like that thing, little cut that thing right in through here. Look, almost you can feel it, and it’s real delicate, real tender. If I shave and make a mistake and hit it—!

	S:	Oh, I see. Uh-huh. Well, how did you get down to Florida? When did you move to Florida?

	J:	I’ll do a little thinking. I don’t know how I got down to Florida. Let me see; how did I get to Florida?

	S:	When did you become a minister?



	J:	I’ll look at the papers and let you know, I’ll call you up and tell you. [Laughter] S:	What?

	J:	My memory ain’t— S:	Oh! [Laughter]







J:

But this, I got it all, it’s on paper, I got it down there when I was discharging in North Carolina. North Carolina, where it was in North Carolina. What’s the name

of that fort?

S:

Fort Bragg?

J:

Fort Bragg. I’ve been—

U:

Discharged.

J:

Yeah.

U:

How did you get to Florida?

S:

Do you remember how you got to Florida?

U:

Did you have a business in the Panhandle?

S:

You want to put it on pause? Give it some thought?

J:

Yeah.

S:

All right, let’s do that.

U:

So, where did you have your first business?

J:

My first business?

U:

Where did you and your wife first live? Didn’t you have a Panhandle—

J:

Oh yeah, we went to—oh Lord have mercy!

U:

It’s okay.

J:

Where the [inaudible 41:59] Air Force Base?

U:

Yeah, you were married while you were in the military?

J:

Let me see. Let me see.

U:

You did say she came to visit you, so.

J:

Who?







U:

Didn’t she come to—Ms. Juanita, didn’t she visit you? While you were in



Service?

J:

Oh, yeah.

U:

So, where was that?

J:

That was up in Massachusetts? Was it Massachusetts?

U:

That was where she visited you, okay.

S:

Maybe that was before he went to Korea.

J:

That’s before I was discharged, yeah.

U:

That was before you went overseas, right?

S:

It isn’t vital now. We don’t have to struggle with that now. And did you go to



seminary to become a minister?

J:

I went to several.

S:

What?

J:

I went to several—what’d you call them?

U:

Seminaries.

S:

Seminary.

J:

I went to several.

U:

But you became a minister before going to the seminary.

J:

Oh Lord, yeah.

U:

He went as the result of being a minister, it was kind of reversed.

S:

Uh-huh, okay. Was that—

J:

I went to Alabama State before I went into the Service.

U:

Right, we talking about—





	S:	But your ministry.



	U:	Your ministry.



	S:	When did that begin? Was that after you came back from Korea? J:	Oh Lord, yes.

	U:	And that was up in Fort Walton Beach area, yeah? J:	It sure was, Fort Walton Beach.

	S:	So maybe you came from Mobile to Fort Walton first? J:	I couldn’t tell you. I have to think about it a minute.

	S:	Okay, okay. And so, were you active as a minister? Did you have a church or a congregation?

	J:	Oh Lord, a church? I was a Methodist. Methodist is a traveling sort of situation; you get up everywhere you—when you’re in the Methodist, oh Lord, I know it! Twenty, twenty-five, thirty years or something like that in pastoring, I know that.

	S:	Okay, okay.



	U:	Almost fifty years. J:	Yeah.

	U:	Fifty years.



	J:	Yeah, that was almost fifty years.



	S:	And so, a church calls you and asks you to come, is that— J:	No, no, we’re appointed to a church.

	S:	Appointed to a church. But there’s lots of moving around.



	J:	Yes. Sometimes you know the reason, sometimes you don’t know the reason.



You know, the constituency has the power. We have every year a lot of governed





places to pastor, you know. Then the persons that, we call them the presiding elders, and then the bishop is the high person. And sometimes, they wake you up, I’ve been awakened two or three times: “Reverend, we done called you to let you know you no longer the pastor of our little chapel, we’re going to send you to such-and-such a place,” say, “it’s a better place.” But I don’t know what all was going on, but sometimes it’d be better, sometimes it’d be worse.

	S:	Sure.



	J:	But I thank God that the time came when I met her. S:	And when was that?

	J:	When was that?



	U:	He passed through here [19]91 to [19]93, and developed a friendship. Just kind of followed each other. He left here in [19]93, I think, then went down south, and then he went back out west part of state. So, about [19]91 he was in here.

	S:	Mmhm, Mmhm. And what year did you get married? U:	[20]13, 2013.

[Break in recording]



	S:	Should we go back on camera and go over some of this, becoming a minister? J:	Well, I don’t—yeah, well, if you want to.

	S:	Yeah, yeah let’s do that. Well now, when you came to Fort Walton Beach, were you already a minister? Did you come for the Methodist Church there?

	J:	I wasn’t a minister in no Walton Beach, no, because I was in Sunday school.



That’s when the oldest boy, that’s when he was born in Fort Pierce. Yeah.



	S:	And was your first wife still with you? In Fort Walton?





	J:	I got to think.



	S:	So when you moved down to the Panhandle, well then, it sounds to me like you’re getting closer to Gainesville. But when you were a minister for the Methodist church, you were moved a lot of times, is that right?

	J:	That’s, yeah, you’re right.



	S:	And so you would get a call, and they would appoint you to a church for a while?



	J:	Yeah, I would get a call or it could be at a meeting. And they’d talk about it, some of them, and we ended up alone, and they say “We in the other room.” And they go in, talk with the guys who were going to make the appointments. Sometimes they were beneficial to the person, sometimes they’re not beneficial. You know.

	S:	Mmhm, mmhm. And so, when did you meet Carrie, your current wife? J:	When did I meet you, Carrie?

	S:	About 1991, maybe. Were you a minister down in Gainesville, is that what brought you here?

	J:	Yes.



	S:	And you two knew each other from church. Mmhm. J:	Yes ma’am.

	S:	And now, she’s your wife since 2013, is that right? J:	Is that right? [Laughter]

	S:	Now you had some children along the way, didn’t you?



	J:	Now you want to get into my personal business now! [Laughter]



	S:	No, no, I’m not trying to pry. [Laughter]. Well now, I want to ask you some questions about—





	J:	Now, now we getting into— S:	No, no, now we’re not.

	J:	Yeah, no, no, I want to answer.



	S:	Now, when you were in the Service, were you pretty much insulated from integration, or were you always in an integrated situation?

	J:	When you say “integrated,” what do you—



	S:	I mean you served with White fellows, and fellows that were not Black?



	J:	Yeah, in the Army. I guess. In the Army, you know what I’m saying, it wouldn’t be as prevalent at one time as it is another time, you know? If we just had one Caucasian in a situation, that’s just, you mix. You mix just the one person, you know? So. But I don’t think I ever had problems with racialness.

	S:	Good. Well, when you were a cook, was that when you were still on the ship? Or was that when you got into Korea?

	J:	Well, I was on the ship.



	S:	Were you a cook? Did you cook then? J:	Mmhm.

	S:	Mmhm.



	J:	I surely did.



	S:	Mmhm.



	J:	Not that I wanted to, because I was getting all excited about cooking and all. But when they tell you you’re assigned, they don’t ask you “Can you go? They say, “This where you going.”





	S:	That’s right. Are there any stories you can remember from your time in the service that you want to tell me about, that I haven’t asked about?

	J:	I can imagine there are some that I don’t want to tell you about. S:	[Laughter] You’ll think of them when you get home?

	J:	Probably the stories that I tell her, I’ll say, “You know, I should have told her this—.”

	S:	[Laughter] That probably happens to everybody. J:	I guess so. That’s right.

	S:	I’ll think of a question when I go home.



	J:	Yeah, yeah, yeah. But I don’t remember anything, except when [inaudible 51:56] got off the bus in Mobile. That’s all the time I remember. That kind of stands out, because the driver didn’t do anything about it, you know. We couldn’t get in there, front of the bus; we had to go get in the back.

	S:	Those were bad times.



	J:	Yeah, it was bad times, but some of it wasn’t. That’s just like life. But you didn’t think of it like that. When you find out what situation you in, it bring some change in your thoughts.

	S:	Mmhm, that’s right. Are there any other stories you’d like to tell me before we stop?

	J:	No, I don’t know any I’d like to tell you, but I’d like to know if there are any other that you would like for me to say.

	S:	I can’t think of anything.



	J:	Well, I guess we in the same—.





	S:	Well I appreciate you coming down and doing the interview, I really do. I’m so glad to meet you.

	J:	I’m glad to—what’s your name? S:	Ann Smith.

	J:	Ann Smith, I don’t think I’ll forget that. You’re serving breakfast for us? S:	[Laughter] I should, shouldn’t I?

	J:	Not necessary, not a little bit. Just being comical. S:	Well thank you very much, I appreciate it.

[End of interview]



	Transcribed by:	Megan Sam, September 25, 2019 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, April 22, 2020

	Final edited by:	Sandra Romero, May 19, 2020