AAHP 287; Smith; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 287 Barbara Smith

African American History Program (AAHP) Interviewed by Marna Weston on November 24, 2012 58 minutes | 34 pages



Abstract: Mrs. Barbara Smith is being interviewed after her talk at the 2012 Mebane Holiday Homecoming. She begins her interview with a short summary of her life accomplishments. She discusses her days at Mebane High school, teachers she remembers, her career with the Alachua County School Food Service, and awards she’s been honored. She sings her Alma matter and then describes her experiences at Mebane. She remembers A. Quinn Jones, Oliver Jones, and her brief time at Douglass High school in High Springs. Mrs. Smith also went to Lincoln High School for her seventh grade year, and she describes teachers and peers she remembers. She sings “Swing Low, Sweet Chariot” when reminiscing about the operetta she performed in at Douglass. The interview then turns to discussing her genealogy and then talking about her siblings and children. Ms. Smith talks about Black school rivalries in Florida, and then finishes the interview discussing Barack Obama and current controversies, such as redevelopment, that High Springs is facing.













































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 287

Interviewee: Barbara Smith Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: November 24, 2012



	W:	This is Marna Weston on November 24, 2012 with Ms. Barbara Ann Smith at Mebane Middle School in Alachua, Florida, which is the former campus of Mebane High School. Thank you, Ms. Smith, for doing the interview.

	S:	Hi, I’m Barbara Ann Smith, as he’s foresaid, and I began my high school years here September 2, 1962-1963 school term, and I graduated June 2, 1966. And that class is always referred to as the illustrious class of 1966. My class was the largest class that ever graduated from A.L. Mebane High. There were eighty-four of us in that graduating class, and we had some wonderful senior superlatives. In fact, both of my dear friends were from my hometown High Springs, Florida: Sharon Jordan Holly was the valedictorian, and Estelle Walton was the salutatorian. Sharon and I both went to Santa Fe Community College, which used to be the old Buchholz High School there in Gainesville. She later transferred for her other two years at Atlantic University in Boca Raton. Estelle graduated from Tennessee; four years. This school has meant so much to me. I began my career in doing different things that taught me how to become an adult and make good decisions. I made some good decisions. I made some bad mistakes. And when I say bad mistakes, the mistakes were from a student prospective. I got in trouble about leaving the cafeteria early. The second one was I lost my purse at the gym, and in my purse there was a knife. And the principal at that time could have expelled me or suspended me. Rather than doing that he just talked to me, but I had the knife in it eating an apple and he shared with me he said, “Jones you don’t eat an apple with a knife, you eat it with





your teeth.” And I have never forgotten that. The third thing was the fact that I became highly embarrassed because there was this young man that I had been paying a lot of attention and I wanted him to pay attention to me. And I went into the gym in the shower and hurried and showered. And in my haste I put my skirt on the wrong side and he looked at me and he said, “Barbara, you’ve got your skirt on the wrong side.” And that kind of beat me from even trying to attract his attention. And the last, most embarrassing, thing was, as I said earlier because I spoke today, that I was a cheerleader for three years and we were going to Palatka to play Palatkan football. And we had an assignment and I didn’t do my assignment, and my biology teacher—I was in tenth grade—he said to me, “Jones, go outside and stand at the door and sing this song in the tune of ‘God Bless America’—“I am a knucklehead / My head is full of muddy water / Don’t stand beside me / For you’ll be just like me.” Well, by him being an adult and me a student I followed his instruction, and classes began to change and I had a little audience. [Laughter] And he called for me to come back in, but that was a mistake but I learned from my mistake. And the last mistake that I really made, I had work detail. I don’t know whether the schools—I don’t think they do that anymore. They have what they call in-school suspension now. And I had work detail and we had to clean all the girls’ bathrooms and then go into the cafeteria and do the floor. It was something, but it taught me a lesson. But then I had to learn to make good decisions and worthwhile decisions. I especially liked assembly, because the band director at that time was Richard Parker who was a graduate of Florida A&M, and the choir director was Dedrick Ploitly [4:32] who





was a graduate of Florida A&M also. And they would sing, and there was this one particular song I heard that I really, really liked. It was “Jesus Keep Me near the Cross.” I used to enjoy them singing that duet together. And by me not knowing and understanding the biblical understanding of the word—even though I came up in a good Christian home with my mom—I accepted the Lord when I was sixteen years old; I was in eleventh grade. But I really say it came from doing so much in the assembly at school and I really appreciate it. I was my class sweetheart, Ms. Sophomore. I became Ms. NHA which for an acronym for New Future Homemakers of Tomorrow. I also was the 2001 Ms. Green and Gold, which is the alumni association sponsorship, because we have an alumni association here in Alachua. This is our fifteenth year and it’s doing real well. You can become a lifetime member by paying one hundred dollars or you can pay yearly twenty-five dollars. Also I had good teachers, and when I say good teachers I’m not saying that the teachers of this day are not good. They challenged you above what you think you could do, and I was challenged a lot.

One was by Mrs. Louis Harrison who was the typing teacher. And she scold me for lying and she told me when you lie you have to pay the consequences. And I really appreciate that. Then there was the basketball coach, the late Jefferson Jones, who became the principal of Santa Fe High School and he said to me, “Don’t you think it is about time for you to learn how to drive?” I was a senior and I didn’t know how to drive; nothing but riding. And I learned how to drive even though I didn’t take Driver’s Ed. To me that was an easy class for everybody to get out of—which was an elective—but I just didn’t take it. And there was Ms.





Mary McKnight who was my cheerleader coach, basketball coach but she personally mentored me how to become a lady. I learned how to sit, how to respond, how to act when I’m in company of others. And I never will forget she used to come and get me and I’d spend the weekend with her in Ocala, Florida with she and her husband; at that time, Mr. McKnight. And then there was my homemaking teacher who taught me how to sew a button, because I didn’t know how to sew a button. She just was real good. And my English teacher, Mrs.

Beckwith, at that time she was Beckwith but she became married and she was Mrs. Johnson. But she taught English. And she taught me good English, and how to use it, and how to respond when a question is asked; how to answer that question. Don’t beat around the bush; ask it from your heart. And that’s what I did. That’s why I said I know we had good teachers. They challenged you in things that you needed to do. Also, I just like to say that this school really brought me to where I am and I went on to become an Assistant-to in School Food Service for the school board of Alachua County. I retired after twenty-seven years and I enjoyed it. And when I say assistant that’s like—assistant-to—It’s like a manager intern. In fact I was making more than the assistant managers. So I did that and there I became a member of our association, and I served as our regional director, our chair regional director. I was president of Alachua County- the first never have being a manager. I was not a manager, and I served three times. And the last time was in 2007—excuse me, I mean 2001. And I won thirteen awards. In fact, I won the leadership award of the year for the state of Florida and I was very proud. And by me doing all of this, our superintendent at





that time just gave me a raise, personally, even though I had put in for the manager position. I was interviewed and didn’t receive it. So God has a way of working things out for you for your own good. But I thank God for it because my job led me to different places to go. I’ve been to Hawaii. I’ve been to Missouri. I’ve been to Kentucky. I’ve been to Tennessee. Oh I’ve been so many places I can’t really remember all of them verbatim from my memory, but I did a lot of things. I got a chance to get on a national board and that’s when I said I got a chance to travel. I’ve been to Columbus, Georgia, I’ve been to Lithonia, Georgia, and I’d do presentations. And when we say presentation, they give you an honorary for being a speaker for them and I just enjoyed it. Here locally in Florida I’ve spoken at regional conferences, and even out of state conferences. But God has just been good and I thank God for my path here at A.L. Mebane. And just as my class motto states: Education is the torch that lights the future. And it really lit the future for me, because I was educated from a good school, even though it was during segregation time, but I thank God for that wonderful time in that era.

And last but not least, A.L. Mebane taught me a sense of community. Everybody became involved with the total student regardless of who they were. And thank you so much for this interview.

	W:	Do you know the words to the alma mater? S:	Yes.

	W:	Would you mind singing them? S:	Okay. [Singing]

“Dear A.L. Mebane, how we love thee





That’s why we’ll always be true



We cherish thy precepts, we’ll honor thy name Thy banner will there proclaim

And when from these walls we must leave, May we in our hearts believe that the Wisdom we’ve gained will always remain So true to our hearts,

Dear Mebane.”



That’s my school alma matter. W:  [Clapping] That was beautiful. S:  Thank you.

	W:	Now you’ve been recognized; you’re wearing a crown today. So what’s that all about?

	S:	Okay the crown I am wearing today—I was crowned Ms. Green and Gold Sweetheart. That was our school colors: green and gold. And it was a fundraiser for the alumni association and they have Ms. Alumni. You could be Ms. Alumni, Ms. Hornet, or Ms. Green and Gold. So I came in third place—actually we say second place, and then Ms. Hornet, because that was the school’s team. We were Hornets; so I came in second place. So that’s what this crown is all about and I got on a medallion also. [Laughter]

	W:	Now there were four classes recognized today. Could you talk about how you ended up being the speaker today?





	S:	Okay. Well I graduated in 1966, as I foresaid, and I ended up being the speaker simply because one of the committee members knows that I do public speaking. In fact, I got my public speaking here at Mebane. In tenth grade I started off as an oratorical speaker, and that’s what I went to college for—for speech. And anyway, I was asked by them would I come and speak as my high school years here at Mebane, and I agreed to. So that’s how I got a chance to be the speaker today.

	W:	We would love to get a copy of the speech you delivered today. Will you get together a copy at a later date?

	S:	Sure.



	W:	Do you remember the first time that you stood up and gave a speech in school?



And what that was like?



	S:	Yes, well I’ve never been frightened. My mom—I have to say what my mom said—she said I started talking when I was eight months old. [Laughter] Saying words not just give me, just a complete paragraph. And I’ve basically been talking all my life because sometimes my husband tells me I talk too much. [Laughter] But I was in ninth grade and I took literature and we had to do this essay on Shakespeare’s sonnet—I think it was 91. I think it was. But anyway I had to write a little thesis on that and I spoke from that.

	W:	Was that the, “How do I love thee like a summer’s day—” S:	Yes, yes.

	W:	Yeah. [Laughter] That’s a very famous one.





	S:	And I remember reciting that poem “Invictus”, we all had to learn it. And back in the day, and when I say back in the day in most Black schools you had to learn a lot of things.

	W:	Uh-huh.



	S:	You know like the national Black anthem? That was a requirement and that was before I got here; it was at Douglass I had to learn it. Yes.

	W:	There was a heavy emphasis in school on memorization and recitation in front of your peers. They don’t do that so much in school anymore. Do you feel that something has been lost? What are your thoughts about that form of teaching?

	S:	I think something has been lost. And I say that because even though we sang the national anthem “Star-Spangled Banner”, we actually had to recite it and put emphasis on it when I was in eighth grade. And the whole twenty-three of us had to learn to recite it and everybody had to listen. But they don’t do a whole lot of memorization; no more than doing the tests. And even the tests now are multiple choice. There is not too much paragraph writing, because I raised my children and I knew how it was and I had three myself. And I saw the difference then, and it’s even much more different now with my grands. Well I got one that’s a senior this year; she graduates this year. And I see it with Ashanti; there’s a difference.

	W:	You have such a vivid memory of so many high school moments and high school teachers. I want to know, could you go back to when you first started in school, who was the first teacher that you remember that had an impact on you, and what school were you going to?





	S:	Okay that would have to be my first grade teacher. She just died a few years ago; her name was Mrs. Allen at Lincoln. The old Lincoln in Gainesville, that’s where I started school at. My parents got a divorce when I was twelve. I was in eighth grade, and High Springs was our home and she moved back to High Springs. So I’ve been here since I was in eighth grade. But Mrs. Allen would have to be that person, because she could walk to her house to old Lincoln High School—which is A. Quinn Jones Center now—and she had a whole big impact on me because I can smell her now. And when I say smell her, she wore this fragrance, Youth Dew, I found that out in later years, and I thought she smelt so good. I would say, “When I get grown I’m going to smell just like Mrs. Allen.” [Laughter] So that would have to be my first grade, because I started school when I was five; I graduated when I was seventeen.

	W:	So down to the old factory senses. You really absorbed everything about education that there was to absorb.

	S:	I had to because—and that was one of the things that my mom pushed in us— and I don’t see that doing now because my daughter teaches school herself and I don’t see her saying, “You gotta, you gotta do this.” And to my mom it was like that was the only way out for us. And when I say the only way out—get your education, get it well, and maintain what you have. But just don’t leave God out of it. That was her biggest emphasis. You are what you are because God allowed you to be there. You didn’t do it on your own; you my say you’ve done it on your own but she said you still got to count him first, and then you secondly. So that’s what I would say.





	W:	Do you remember A. Quinn Jones?



	S:	I didn’t really remember him. I just knew I went to Lincoln High School first and second grade, because Ms. Allen was my first grade teacher. My second grade teacher was Mrs. Debose. And I see pictures of him and I have read write-ups of him but personally I can’t remember. But now his son was my principal when I graduated. Oliver H. Jones, he was the principal at A.L. Mebane.

	W:	Okay.



	S:	In 1966. So I know Mr. Jones and he comes back quite a bit here. W:	What are your memories of Oliver Jones?

	S:	Okay, Oliver, yes I remember. He was a quiet man. He never stayed in the office. He was in the office, but he was visible. He made himself visible; he would even walk in the teacher’s classroom. I don’t think it was to see whether they were teaching or not, but to know that they were doing something with the students.

But he was always visible, very visible.



	W:	Made his presence known.



	S:	Yes he did. And we weren’t used to that, and I never will forget there was an incident. This boy—his name was Albert Mayber from a settlement called Mighty Oak, because some kids from Mighty Oak came to school here—and he didn’t know who Mr. Jones was. And he took Mr. Jones and put him in the garbage can. [Laughter] And Mr. Jones was struggling trying to get out because he was a little man in stature. And he couldn’t get out and somebody had to help him get out. Every time he tried to get out he couldn’t get out, and so the word got around campus that Albert, we called him Hawk, had put Mr. Jones in the garbage can.





And everybody was running around trying to see where he was. But like I said, that was a funny incident to us, but Albert didn’t know who he was. He just knew he was a man and he just put him in there; and he didn’t know he was our new principal. [Laughter]

	W:	You mentioned after second grade you left Lincoln. S:	Yes, I came to High Springs to Douglass.

	W:	Okay now what was Douglas like?



	S:	Okay, oh, Douglass was real good. At Douglass I can remember my third grade teacher who at that time was the late Yuna Simmons—she had not finished college from Bethune-Cookman—and Insa Gadset, who was a teacher herself-

	W:	Would that be the mayor of High Springs?



	S:	That’s right you remember. Well she finished out the term with us. I think it was like from December to June. She finished out the term with us. And see my parents, they did a lot of separating until they finally got a divorce. And when I got into fourth grade we moved back to Gainesville and Mrs.—she has not been dead that long—Mrs. Marie Daniels Adams was her name; she was my fourth grade teacher. And I got a chance to be in the spelling bee for the county, and went to state, and I got knocked out. And the word was anti- establishmentarianism. I could not spell it. I spelt it but I had letters in—the last ending letters in the wrong place, and I was in fourth grade. I will never forget that.

	W:	That’s a tough word.



	S:	[Laughter] Yes, for a fourth grader.





	W:	But you remember it to this day.



	S:	I do because I cried. I wanted to win, but I didn’t. But there were some good spellers at the state because we went to South Florida, like Hollywood; somewhere like that we were. I’ve forgotten, but I can remember it because Mr. Jackson who taught at—it had become A. Quinn Jones then—he carried us down.

	W:	How about fifth grade?



	S:	In fifth grade I was back in High Springs with Mrs., my fifth grade teacher, was Mrs. Wilson; the late Mrs. Wilson. And I remember this book we had Singing Wheels and there was this new student that came. He was in the grade behind me but his reading skills were so high, he came to reading with us. And he read- his diction was he knew how to break his voice down, but he came from Clearwater. So we were from High Springs and High Springs being a little place, and I guess they taught him everything there. And we were amazed, “Well who is this guy?” Reading like this, but he was a grade under us. His name was Thedo, but I can’t think of his last name. I can’t think of Thedo’s last name now but I can remember that. But I had a good fifth grade teacher, Mrs. Haddy Wilson. We had this reading book, Singing Wheels, and he could read, and I’m serious, very good. You could understand everything he said. Not saying that I didn’t understand the other class members, but he was good. He really was.

	W:	Did anything else happen in fifth grade or do you go right into sixth grade? S:	I go into sixth grade.

	W:	Okay.





	S:	Sixth grade I was still in High Springs and my sixth grade teacher was Ethelda— well she’s dead now—the late Ethelda Cathy. And that was the year that I had double pneumonia, and that was in 1959, and at that time Shands was called the

J. Hillis Miller Medical Center. And I was there for what—five days? And I will never forget my class bought me this big, huge card. And the nurse came in, which was a White nurse, and she said, “You were well thought of. They sent you this huge card.” And they made it themselves, but Ms. Cathy had them to do it. But I will never forget that. And math was always sort of a hard subject for me, and she would help me with my math rather than go to lunch. She would let me go with the class and get my lunch. She’d get hers and take me back to the room and tutor me.

	W:	How long were you in the hospital? S:	Five days.

	W:	Five days; that’s a long time.



	S:	Yeah it was because I was under this tent. At that time it looked like plastic. But they put it over me, and I had such a high temperature. I won’t remember that because my momma said I was out of my head- I was hallucinating. And she said, “Momma, you don’t see that dog in that corner?” She said I knew it wasn’t and there I was looking for the dog. But I had a high temperature. But they got it got down; they got it broken.

	W:	That’s good. So what happened after sixth grade? Did you stay in Douglass still? S:	No we moved back, and that was the last move.

	W:	Okay.





	S:	In seventh grade I went to the new Lincoln. W:	Okay.

	S:	But see the new Lincoln is just Lincoln Middle School now. It was a big school, but they kept you separated from those high school students. And see their rooms were not outside like these here at Mebane. It was an inside school. So a certain area; it was just you had a boundary. And you couldn’t go across that boundary.

	W:	Okay so sixth, seventh, and eighth grade was one school and nine, ten, eleven, and twelve was another school.

	S:	Yes.



	W:	Okay.



	S:	Yes, it was.



	W:	What was the seventh grade like at Lincoln? Do you remember any of the teachers or things?

	S:	Yes my home-sponsor name was Mrs. Alexander. I was in 7-3 there. And I remember this boy named George Morgan, I remember Katie Welch was a classmate of mine, Yvonne Wilkinson was a classmate in my homeroom. And I can remember Mrs. Inez Jackson. She was my math teacher; she was real good. I remember my science teacher because at that time Blacks didn’t do interracial marriage, and she was Ms. Ham-Ying. She married a Chinese. And she was good in science. Beautiful lady; oh I thought she was so pretty. But he was a military man and that’s why that was. But I had good years there but I remember the science and math more than I do the English that I was taking there.





	W:	When you were in high school you were very involved in the cheerleading—the pep squad—when you were in sixth, seventh, and eighth grade did you do any of those things?

	S:	Well, at Douglass in sixth grade, by me living in the country I couldn’t participate in the extracurricular activities. But I sang in the chorus. And at that time—I don’t know whether you are familiar with what they call operetta plays—and well an operetta play is a live play, but it entails singing and talking. And I had a singing part in the operetta.

	W:	And what was your part?



	S:	I sang this song, this old Negro spiritual, “Swing Low, Sweet Chariot.” That’s what it was.

	W:	Do you remember any of the parts of it? S:	[Singing]

“Swing low, sweet chariot Coming for to carry me home Swing low, sweet chariot Coming for to carry me home.” And I think one of the verses is,

“I looked over Jordan, and what did I see? Coming for to carry me home

A band of angels coming after me Coming for to carry me home”





And at that time her husband was—Mr. Welch was the principal there at Douglass, and his wife was what they call I guess you would say the interim pianist, because she went from one school to another daily; the Black schools, because they didn’t have a music teacher stationed there at the school. And she selected me to participate in the operetta.

	W:	Do you feel that being at the schools you were at, and the community you were in—because it seems it was just one community, just different schools, but everybody still knew each other—

	S:	Yes.



	W:	Did that set your love of singing? You still have a beautiful voice- S:	Oh, thank you.

	W:	Obviously you are very dynamic. You are not afraid to go ahead and sing on an interview.

	S:	No. [Laughter]



	W:	So did those experiences make you that person who can just sit and do a little something right here on the—

	S:	I think so. Well, my grandmother was a big inspiration in my life. And she would always say, “If you got something to say, say it. There is not a right way or a wrong way. But be careful what you say.” So I’m more mindful now. The young lady back there, that’s my god sister Eunice and she knows how I am.

Sometimes—well I’m better than I used to be—sometimes I just say things like whatever is rolling around on my brain it came out on my tongue. [Laughter] And I was like that basically in high school. I’ve been like this all my life, but she





instilled that in me. And even like kids are getting a whipping or spanking for something that they’ve done, but our mother always let us express our opinion but she always let us know she was still the adult figure. She’d let us share, but then if she still felt like you wrong, you still got a beating. So I learned that from her and grandmother. I never could be silent. And where in my other siblings I’m the oldest. They would kind of retreat, wherein I wouldn’t and I guess when you heard me speaking today I always find myself getting in hot water about something, but I’ve just always been like that.

	W:	You mention there was some difficulty with the separation of your parents. So I’m very sorry that happened, but you seem to still be a great person. I want to ask you a few questions—don’t answer anything you don’t want to answer—but just to get some background. Because you have talked about your mom and grandmother and the separation but we don’t have any contacts yet.

	S:	Okay.



	W:	So who were your mom and dad?



	S:	Okay, my mom’s name was Ida-Mae Bell Jones. My father was Clarence L. Jones.

	W:	And what were their dates of birth?



	S:	Daddy was born August 9, 1923 and momma was born August 13, 1927. W:	Okay and where were they from? Where were they born?

	S:	Okay my dad is from Dunnellon, Florida. W:	Go ahead.





	S:	Okay and Momma is from High Springs in a settlement called Wade, in the Country. Called Wade, Florida.

	W:	And how far is Wade from—? S:	Five miles out of High Springs. W:	Okay. Going toward?

	S:	Newberry.



	W:	Okay so going toward Newberry. S:	Uh-huh.

	W:	Kind of like split the difference in between?



	S:	Yeah because she went to Douglass for a little while and then she went to Newberry, the school in Newberry for a while.

	W:	Okay. So southwest going down like 41 27th Avenue? S:	Yes. Uh-huh.

	W:	Wade.



	S:	Wade.



	W:	How about your mom’s people? Who were her mom and dad?



	S:	Okay her mom was from Greenville, Florida. She was the youngest of her family.



Her name was Charity Adams Bell. My grandfather’s name was Robert Henry Bell, and he was from Columbia, South Carolina. But when we looked it up it’s really was, it’s Columbia. I mean it’s not Columbia. Yes it is. It’s Columbia, South Carolina, but at that time the name changed. There was a name change. I can’t think of the name of it. I’ve got family history, but I don’t know exactly. I mean I know where it is but I can’t exactly think of the name of the town. But what





happened was his parents moved, there was nine of them, and they moved to Florida. And they walked from South Carolina to Florida with a mule and a wagon.

	W:	I’ve heard a lot about that.



	S:	Yes, and they did and he settled in High Springs. And he always thought that if you had property, you had something. And he was an advocate for Blacks at that time to have property. My grandfather was the only Black that owned a vehicle out in Wade. And he bought it brand new; paid cash for it. He was a deacon in a Baptist church. My grandmother was an AME. And we went to church on the first and third Sundays with her and second and fourth with granddaddy, because they raised me my third grade year.

	W:	What was the name of the churches that y’all went to?



	S:	Mount Moriah Baptist Church was his church. And the name of grandmother’s church was Pine Hill AME Church.

	W:	Was that in Wade?



	S:	Yes that was in Wade also.



	W:	Okay now I have got to ask you—how long did it take to walk from South Carolina to Florida?

	S:	My great aunt she said it took them twelve days. W:	Twelve days.

	S:	Twelve days. And she said one of the wheels came off the wagon and it hit my uncle’s leg and that’s why he walked with a limp because he didn’t go to a physician. And they tended to it themselves so he just walked with a limp. And





granddaddy’s name was Robert—God I can’t think of his name, oh gosh. But his last was Bell. I’ve got all this info at home with our family history. Because we have family reunions every two years.

	W:	How about on your daddy’s side? Who were his parents? S:	Okay now I don’t remember my grandfather.

	W:	Okay.



	S:	His daddy. But his mother, her name was Lucy Pittman Jones. And they moved from Donaldsonville to Lakeland, Georgia. And then they came here in High Springs and they worked with the turpentine companies. Then my daddy learned how to do it himself until he got ready to go—until he went into the military—and after he went into the military he went to school. He graduated from Bethune- Cookman. So he was a Cookman, but momma’s side always were rattlers so I’m a rattler. [Laughter]

	W:	Now do you know anything about your family past your grandparents? Do you know their parents?

	S:	No I certainly don’t. I don’t. But I do know that my grandmother is from Greenville and she was, from what we were told, one of the wealthiest Black families in Greenville because she often talked about her having a wedding. And she kept her dress. She showed us her dress when I was a little girl and she kept it wrapped in this tissue I call it. But she kept it a long, long time. And as what happened to it I could not tell you. [Laughter]

	W:	Now you have brothers and sisters? S:	Yes I have.





	W:	Could you list them from oldest to youngest?



	S:	Okay the oldest—I have one older than me my mom didn’t raise her. She had a sister that was childless and she allowed her to raise her, Carolyn Jones Vonna. She graduated from Florida A&M. She taught school for 33 years in South Carolina because that’s where they lived, in Charleston. Then I have Christine Jones Bannister who went into the military. She graduated from here; the class of [19]69.

	W:	So she is one under you?



	S:	Yes. I’m three years older than she. And when I was a senior she came here as a freshman. And then I have a sister—a younger sister, the baby girl, her name is Jacquelyn Jones Williams. Well Jacquelyn Jones Hill Williams because this is her second husband. She lives in Sanford, Florida. Then I have one brother who’s the baby. I’m eight years older than Bobby, and his name is Bobby Charles Jones, and he has a book out called Paul’s Story. It’s a fictitious story but we are all in the book and I would love for you to get it. If you go to Amazon.com you can get it. But, like I said, it’s fictitious but the characters are true because I’m in it.

Because he lists this school, Mebane.



	W:	It’s loosely based on.



	S:	Yes the family. Us. My grandmother is in it. He’s talking about the lady being mean and all that kind of stuff. But it’s about us but if I didn’t know it I wouldn’t know who he was talking about because he gave it to us about three Christmas’s ago. He gave all the siblings a book. And Booby has graduated from college.

Chris, myself, and my younger sister who had Cerebral Palsy when she was





seven. Well not Palsy—she had a cerebral hemorrhage. She had to learn to walk all over again, and she became left-handed instead of right-handed because she had a stroke. But she is doing fine; she has two children. And the daughter graduated from Virginia Union, and the son lives in Gainesville. And I have three children. Like I said, my daughter is the oldest, she is 43.

	W:	And what are their names?



	S:	Chandra Smith Folsten, and I have Richard Joseph Smith Jr., we call him Ricky.



He’s incarcerated at Lowell, but he’s doing good. And when I say he’s incarcerated him…you know how these young people are pulled into the drug scene, and he got into the drug scene. He went to school at Cookman—one term—and got out hooked on these and he committed a crime; a heinous crime. And he’s in Lowell, but they send him to school. So, he tutors young men that does not have a diploma. They get a G.E.D. so that’s what he does there. So even though he’s locked up he is doing something positive, and I knew he could have done something great if he was on the free outside world.

	W:	Is there a chance he’ll be coming home one day?



S:  Yes, well December will be seventeen years. Because he had a life sentence, but God is good. He is. So he had to do seventeen years before he was even considered for parole.

W:   So every year he goes up?



	S:	Well he’ll go up following this year. He’ll go up in 2013. He’ll go up. Yes, and I thank God for that. And then I have my youngest son who’s—Ricky is forty—and my youngest son is thirty-four. He is still at home, unmarried, no children thank





God. [Laughter] And Ricky has no children either. He’s not married but my daughter is married. This is her second husband. She has four kids. She went to Florida A&M, and she teaches school at Newberry Elementary. But anyway I have four grands. My daughter is the only one who has children. I have a twenty- two year old grandson, a nineteen year old grandson. He went to FAM, didn’t like it, came back. He’s at Santa Fe; had a 3.6 GPA. Now I got a granddaughter, Ashanti, who’s in twelfth grade doing well. She’s like me. Everybody knows she is in every kind of organization that is at school. And then I have a thirteen year old granddaughter.

	W:	So who is your husband and how did you meet him?



	S:	Okay, ha, that’s real funny. My husband is Richard Smith he has done an interview which he went to Richardson High in Lake City, Florida. And I met him at a club. At that time we didn’t say a club, we called it a Juke Joint. [Laughter] So I met him and I was the aggressor. I saw him and I said, “Oh that’s going to be my husband.”

	W:	And where was this place at? S:	In High Springs.

	W:	Was it High Springs? Okay. Do you remember what the name of it was and where it was in town?

	S:	It was on the side of town, on the east side of town—no, the west side of town and they called it Juke Henry. [Laughter]

	W:	Juke Henry. I guess the owner’s name was Henry.





	S:	Yes. [Laughter] Yes his name was Henry and his wife’s name was Arizona and she was a member of the church where we attended, because I joined his church, the United Methodist Church, and she could make the best fried chicken. There is nobody that could beat her fried chicken. Her name was Arizona but both of them are dead now. She died about six or seven years ago I’d say, but he had been dead a long time.

	W:	So you looked at him and said, “Well this is going to be my husband.” S:	Yes.

	W:	What was his answer? How did he respond to that?



	S:	He really didn’t know it until I told him, but when I saw him I just knew it. And as a young girl—and he and I both have shared with one another- I said I have never been a girl that didn’t want a husband. I always wanted a husband. I never, like some people, “Well I’m fine the way I am.” I’ve never been like that, and we’ll celebrate forty-three years December 5, 2012.

	W:	Congratulations.



	S:	Yes, two more weeks. [Laughter]



	W:	Do you have anything special planned?



	S:	Well normally we go out of town and if we don’t go out of town we go somewhere and spend the night at a hotel. But usually he takes me when I was working, every year he would send me flowers to the school house. My manager would ask me, “Could you leave them here on the counter until Friday?” And I would tell her “yeah,” because we had the walk-in refrigerator put them in.

	W:	Let’s go back to ninth grade. What was your ninth grade year in high school like?





	S:	Okay, as I foresaid, it was real scary because I came from a small elementary school, Douglass Junior High. And it was an elementary and then it became a junior high after they phased out the high school part because they came here to school in [19]56 I think it was—[19]57 when the school opened. But I was scared; I didn’t know nobody but the kids from High Springs, because they filtered kids in from an area called Bland, and they filtered kids in from Newberry. They filtered kids in from La Crosse, Mighty Oak, Brooker Area. So you had all these different new people coming to this huge school. And my ninth grade year, like I said, it was frightening, but then I got used to it. When January came I knew everybody, but prior to that in September I was in this strange world with these huge kids.

Students, them upperclassmen’s, they were so big. To me they seemed big. The bathrooms—I wasn’t used to these bathrooms here. And it was just totally different. And ninth grade we didn’t do like they do now—preselect your classes. You didn’t get your classes until you came here. And you went to your homeroom, and you would follow your teacher to your homeroom, like I said there were nine sections of us. And by the time I graduated there was only four sections of us; some quit, some moved, and some began to have other interests. And I learned a lot, I did, I learned a lot. It was a good year, but I do recall when I was in eleventh grade I had a janitor here at the school; I had to share that with them. He would park his car, because it was right beside the cafeteria, he would park his truck and he always had a tarp over it. And my girlfriend and I we used to get on the back and tell him to cover us up because we wanted to go down the hill. We didn’t want what they had in the cafeteria. [Laughter] His name was





Charlie Frasier. Mr. Frasier could have got in trouble with us girls doing that, but he was a good person; really was. We did that a couple—well more than one or two times—but we did it. But our parents didn’t know it, and nobody else knew it. [Laughter]

	W:	Well what year did you start getting involved with clubs or organizations? Was that in ninth grade or eleventh?

	S:	Uh, ninth grade. Ninth grade. But then I didn’t join the cheerleading squad until I was in tenth grade.

	W:	Tenth grade?



	S:	Yes.



	W:	Now you mentioned, in your talk, your senior year a loss to Palatka—sixty-five to nothing. But y’all were used to winning.

	S:	That’s right.



	W:	Who were your rivals?



	S:	It was Palatka, Greencoast Springs, and Live Oak. If you won at Live Oak, you had to fight. If you lost in Live Oak, you still had to fight. So we would have to hurry up and rush out the stadium. And see at that time they gave us sandwiches. The whole school would feed. We carried our little grapes and different things to eat on the bus to the ride there, because they didn’t have the boosters like they have them now. Because my sons played football. And anyway, we didn’t even worry about getting anything from those towns.

	W:	You just knew you were going to get nothing. [Laughter]





	S:	We just left. But it would be the fans and the fans were just aggressive. And it wasn’t always the football team, it would be the fans. And it was the same way in Stark. And Stark didn’t have a football team; they only had -

	W:	R.J.E.



	S:	R.J.E. They only had a basketball team. I never will forget our Mr. Burgess. He told us he said, “Girls,” because at that time cheerleaders couldn’t sit anywhere – we had to sit upfront, we couldn’t sit in the back or in the middle, we all had to sit upfront—and he would tell us, “get down on the floor and cover your heads because they’ll be throwing rocks.”

	W:	[Laughter]



	S:	It was terrible.



	W:	Just to go to Stark? S:	Just to go to Stark.

	W:	I know that you all usually play an intramural game against them. But you are not going to so that this year, what happened?

	S:	I don’t know. I don’t know. But another big rival was Lincoln. I don’t care if you could beat anybody or lose to anybody, but we didn’t want to lose to Lincoln. Because they were the Terriers and we were the Hornets, and they always thought they had bragging rights, but that was a big rivalry there.

	W:	How about Perry Jerkins?



	S:	We played Perry also and, like I said, that was when we would have to fight. W:	[Laughter]





	S:	And they started this behavior back in [19]61, because there’s some boys from High Springs that got hurt real bad fighting. Trying to run to the bus and they got blocked away from the bus. It was horrible.

	W:	So y’all didn’t have security like they have now? S:	Oh no.

	W:	Because they have the police go with—



	S:	Oh now by the time I became a senior they did, but they didn’t have it at first.



They didn’t, you didn’t see their presence. [Laughter]



	W:	That’s unfortunate. So some schools—I guess those schools to the west—you had to fight them.

	S:	Yes.



	W:	And Stark. What was it like with Lincoln? Did you have that problem with them?



	S:	Not that I can recall while I was in high school, but there was some strong rivalry and the boys would play a little rough, especially basketball. Football was good, because we used whoop them. And they used to beat us. We would trade. Okay, we would win this year, next year—this is 2012—next year Lincoln might win.

And it would always be by two or three, four points.



	W:	Close games.



	S:	Yeah close games. Very close games.



	W:	Do you feel that those rivalries helped the schools recognize each other even until today?

	S:	Yes, because like my husband went to Richardson in Lake City and they were wolves. Every year they sponsored this intramural tournament and we would go





to—and I say tournament, my granddaughter always says, “It’s not ‘tunament’ it’s tournament”—and we would go to the tournament and—

	W:	It’s a tunament. [Laughter]



	S:	And that gym was—I don’t believe it was as big as it is—It was a little place. It might have been just a little bigger than this area here. But we enjoyed that because I was a pompom girl at that time, which was a cheerleader. That’s what they used to call them, pompom girl.

	W:	Did you like basketball better or football?



	S:	I like football. It’s just something about that fall atmosphere when September comes. The wind is kind of chill, and I love basketball, but I prefer football. And I’m still like that. I’m still like that, yeah.

	W:	What was your senior year like?



	S:	Oh our senior year was very good. The only drawback—when I say it was very good—we felt like at seniors here. While I was a senior here, our last year, we were the last ones to go to the cafeteria to eat and they would have food left over and they would give us just this little. So we went on a strike. [Laughter] And we didn’t eat for ten days. So they called a meeting and they had the meeting with our sponsors, and—

	W:	Was the principal there and everything?



	S:	Yeah, everything. We had the meeting in the gym—I’m lying—In the auditorium. And they decided to give us a little more, because we were the last ones to eat. And see, they didn’t recycle the food until Friday. And a lot of the times we wouldn’t eat because we knew if we had spaghetti, on Monday and Tuesday we





might have had meatloaf, and we were going to see some of that same stuff on Friday [Laugher]. And then sometimes by the time it got to us it was the end of the day, the end of the week, there was nothing much to give us but old sandwiches. And who wants a sandwich [Laughter]? But they used to make the best pork steak here and homemade biscuit—not rolls—biscuits. Oh they were so good.

	W:	So they cooked the food here, the Home Ec people?



	S:	No, the cooks in the cafeteria right down the road. Mrs. Willie Mae Postell was the cafeteria manager.

	W:	Uh-huh. Do you remember the other people in the cafeteria?



	S:	Yes, because I’ve often said, among myself, I got into food services from Mrs.



Sara Smith was a food service employee. The young man that stood up, his mother was the head server, Evelyn Wilken. I can remember her. Mrs. Lola Lee, her son became my boss; he became a principal there in High Springs. And Sally—oh what Ms. Sally last name was? I can’t think of her last name.

	W:	But you are really good with the names of teachers. Were you ever in student government? Were you a class officer?

	S:	Yes, I was our class secretary my senior year and my sophomore year I was. W:	Have you ever thought about, from those lessons, running for public office?

	S:	No. [Laughter] No, no well I’m in a lot of activities and, like I’m chairman at my church, I’m in a lot of activities. I’m chairman of our student sport, and I belong to—I’m the only Black in High Springs garden club. I’ve been trying to recruit. I’m





secretary there, but nobody wants to join so. But I have, I’ve done these kinds of things, but I’ve always had a good memory, I have. Yes.

	W:	Definitely helps. S:	[Laughter] It does.

	W:	Now let me ask you a couple of social questions you can answer. S:	Uh-huh.

	W:	Or not answer it’s up to you. Just to kind of close up our interview. Barack Obama was just reelected president. How did you feel about the first time, how did you feel about the second time of the appointment?

	S:	I felt good both times. I never did feel he was going to lose the second time and the first time I was real glad simply because we never had a Black president and it just was awesome. I just felt real jubilated at the fact that he had won. So this time even though he came under a regime that had done a lot of damage—even President Clinton did a good thing—and some of the things that he couldn’t get, Obama has been successful in achieving some of those things that he went through. But he is a person, but they are just looking at his skin tone rather than looking at the good that he has done and he’s done some wonderful things.

	W:	Do you think he will be able to have a successful second term or do you expect more obstacles?

	S:	I do. I believe that he is going to have a successful second term simply because God is with him and I believe that passage of scriptures, if God is for you who can be against you? And from all indications that I see, God is with him. And I’m an advocate of what the word of God says. Pray for those that are in high places.





And I do and he is in a high position, because the enemy is always going to be knocking at his door so I have to keep him in prayer. Not just a national prayer, I pray for our local officials. And High Springs has been going through a whole bunch of crazy stuff here lately. I don’t know whether you have seen it in the papers, but I would pick it up and I would get tired of seeing all this rhetoric, and it wasn’t pleasant. And in it was the truth; there was no lies. But you can’t run it like you own it, you know, it’s not a dictatorship. It’s democracy.

	W:	The greatness and the tradition of FAMU versus some of the things that recently happened with FAMU, what are your thoughts about Florida A&M University?

	S:	Okay my thoughts are: it’s been an outstanding school, they’ve done some things, this has not only happened to FAM; the hazing incident, and it’s my school and I am still going to support it. And I felt like they should have been punished, but not for the entire year. But if that’s it you take it and move on. And that’s what I see, because we’ve had a lot of good people that came out of that school. Just like we’ve had Booker T. Washington who created a whole lot of things for us, George Washington Carver, we have to look at that but then looking at the good that they’ve done because all of us have had some bad things to happen to us. But we take that experience and learn to live daily from the bad experience where the good can come forth. That’s what I believe. And that’s what I say about FAM. It will be my school as long as I have breath in my body. I’m not going to turn my back on them even if they have a—it’s just like my kids that graduated from Santa Fe High School, which they are the Raiders. They had for the last six years they’ve had a losing football team, but I’m a supporter.





Because it’s going to come back; they’re going to rise. And like when you were saying about President Obama—I notice that you have to keep church and state separate—but my beliefs on those things that have always been first. The Bible says will be. Those that have been last will be first, so right now we are on it, but he is not just for us, he is for everybody. And that’s the way I felt about Dr. King he was for everyone, not a set of individuals.

	W:	When you look in High Springs and you think about some of the issues with the city commission, and being kind of rural, it’s not really on the interstate but it is a pathway, people do come through there. What are your hopes for the young people in High Springs looking to have jobs and lots of things to do?

	S:	Yes, more jobs for the City of High Springs, more housing. There’s no good housing. And the housing that does come, you’ve got to have a good job for these little matchbox houses that they’re putting up. And they got something now called the impact fee. If you buy a home you have got to pay this impact fee. And the sewer system is not completed there in High Springs. I am on it, but then on the other side of town, they don’t. My brother does not even have it. And we’ve got to wake up; it’s like we’re sleeping. We are in Sleepy Hollow. They want it to stay antique. You know I’m like this. You can get the same thing a person in New York may have, you just have to get in your vehicle and go there. I’ve got a telephone, I’ve got a PC; you know these other people have these things. But the nightlife, and if I want to do the nightlife, I can go somewhere where that is, but just don’t put down my little hometown, because I love my hometown. And everybody likes that town, but I just don’t like to see it in such a negative way.





And when you say you’re from High Springs, oh they know where High Springs is now from the City Commission. [Laughter]

	W:	Barbara Ann Jones Smith. S:	Yes.

	W:	Thank you very much for the interview today. It has been a great pleasure. On behalf of our program, we want to thank you for taking the time to discuss the Mebane Holiday Homecoming which you all have every year right around Thanksgiving.

	S:	Yes.



	W:	That concludes the interview with my thanks I just want to leave it open to you for any final comment, my way of thanking you, and when you finish whatever you have to say that will conclude our interview.

	S:	Okay, well I thank you for interviewing me, and allowing me this opportunity to do what I’ve just done. And I hope it will be helpful. Alright, thank you.

[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Liz Gray, April 5, 2013



	Audit-edited by:	Jennifer Romero, April 19, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 23, 2019