AAHP 313; Carrington; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 313 Vivian Carrington African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Julian Chambliss on July 20, 2013 1 hour, 58 minutes | 65 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 313

Interviewee: Vivian Carrington Interviewer: Julian Chambliss Date: July 20, 2013



	J:	Hello, my name is Julian Chambliss, associate professor of history at Rollins College and director of the African and African-American Studies program. I’m here today, today is July 20, 2013. I’m at the Hannibal Square Area Center, in Winter Park, Florida. Here with Vivian Carrington, could you say and spell you name?

C:  Yes, my name is Vivian Carrington, that’s V-I-V-I-A-N, Carrington, C-A-R-R-I-N- G-T-O-N, I reside in Winter Park, and I’ve been here for twenty-one years. Prior to that I was in Orange County.

J:   Okay, could you tell us a little bit about your parents?



	C:	Oh, certainly. My father was a police officer for OPD, 1952. He was the third officer that was hired; first one was Jones, then Perry, and of course my father. Then other officers came after that.

	J:	What was your father’s name?



	C:	His name is John W. Jordan, and he is still alive, he’s ninety-one years old. And his last day on his job was last year. I’ve always known my father to work two jobs, and so now he’s tired. But I am happy to say that my mother was a nurse, and of course during the time in the [19]50s, there was segregation, and the situation there was you couldn’t cross to a certain line in Orlando, Florida. Things were very difficult for some people, but not too badly for us. During that time it was the status, you know if your parents were a doctor, a lawyer, a police officer, whatever, you were treated better. You were treated differently.

	J:	What was your mother’s name?





	C:	My mother’s name is Fannie Jordan, Johnson now. And she’s ninety years old, doing extremely well, she has four daughters, and I think—we always say, I think mother is healthier than all four girls. And she is.

	J:	And you have three siblings? Could you tell us their names?



	C:	Yeah, okay, this is good. I am the eldest, I’ll soon be seventy-three years old. And of course I am a student at Rollins College. I’ve been there for two years, and I’m going to keep going as far as I can go. I have a sister who resides in California, her name is Lafrieda Morton. She is a retired banker, and the sister that lives in coastal Mexico, she’s retired educator. Her name Yovanne Brown, of course we call her Bonnie. And then my baby sister resides in—what’s the name of that street? She resides in Orlando, and her name is Sheronn Stevens. She just got married, I had to think about that one. But all of us have done pretty well for ourselves, had good parents, good upbringing, and like I said, for some people back in the [19]50s it was very difficult for them, but not so much in my family.

	J:	Where did you go to school?



	C:	I went to Jones High School, graduated in 1958. And um, I was all-around athlete, had a full scholarship to go to Tuskegee, didn’t make it, ended up getting married and had a daughter, so you know how that goes.

	J:	What sports did you play?



	C:	All of them. Any sport that girls can play I played it. I was a swimmer, track runner, I played softball, tennis, you name it, anything that a female could do back in those days, I did it. Basketball was really, really good. I was captain of my





junior varsity team for several years at Jones High School. I had very good trainers, very good teachers, Ola May Evans, Miss Emery, of course there was Pat Butler, who was my dance instructor, I was a ballet dancer so I enjoyed that as well. But like I said, I had a pretty good upbringing, I don’t remember about the suffering too much. The suffering part about segregation happened when I got older. But not so much when I was a young child.

	J:	Can you tell us a little bit about family life, or what did you guys do when you were with the family on Sundays or outings, or anything like that.

	C:	Yeah, we were a lot more privileged than a lot of kids. We got a chance to go to Sea World, and sea hunt. We got a chance to meet the movie star, you know. And see the glass-bottom boats, and we saw this shoot-em-up thing, I call it the shooter or something that was over there, and we took lots of pictures with the movie stars. Because of who my father was. And dad used to take pictures all the time. He had a movie camera, one of these type that you crank up, you know what I mean. And he took pictures of all the kids in the neighborhood. My father was a very active man, even though he was a police officer, he loved to be the action with people playing sports. Baseball was the number one thing at that time in the [19]50s, and dad used to come with his uniform on and everybody, you know, Oh, Officer Jordan, and he would get so excited. And we got excited because that was our dad, you know. And he would take pictures, movies, the movie camera. And he would do everything, he took pictures, he would go in the dark room, and put it together and everything. And then when they had the movie camera, he put that together also. We were sitting there and watch ourselves on





the screen. Whoa, there is me, you know. And we were just overjoyed because we were the only kids in the neighborhood who had something like that. And we first lived in the project because we were not allowed to buy houses, buy a house in Orlando, Florida. And we lived in the project, it was brand spanking new that we said, that we called it.

	J:	What project was it?



	C:	Carver Court. Yeah, that was near West Moreland and Gore Avenue. It no longer exists now, but at the time it was the number one project area for us. And we were proud of it. What can I say about that project? It was like a family, we were close in some respects, depending on the category you fit in. Sorry to say this, but in our race there were certain people we could not associate with. If the person was of a lower status we couldn’t play with them, we could not participate with anything with them. That’s just the way it was.

	J:	What church did you guys go to?



	C:	We went to Shallow Mashare Baptist Church. I think that was Pastor Collier.



Okay, so that was the church we all attended. And we had to go to every service, woo, Sunday school, YPWW, whatever that was, and then night service, so we were at church on Sundays all day. But we ate on the premises. That was the good part, you know, we didn’t starve. You know so those women, those old ladies could cook that good food, you know, the corn bread, the collard greens, macaroni and cheese, and ham hocks and all that good stuff. Which we can’t even eat today. [Laughter] We ate all that kind of stuff back then. I was privileged to participate or be involved with a lot of things, you know, and that was good





because I had that personality. I was more or less outgoing, you know, energetic, and my father knew I was, he wished that I had been a boy. Because he would lift weights, you know, he and the police officers, and he had whole entire gear, you know, at the house. So I had opportunity to convince dad that I was strong enough, you know and gutsy enough do it, you know. So I was about nine years old and he said, Okay, here’s this two-pound, or something like that, and I go, eh! [grunting]. Like it’s real tough, you know. But as I kept doing it, I graduated, and then I went to five pounds and ten pounds. By the time I was thirteen years old, I could press one hundred fifty over my head, that’s just how strong I was. So the boys were afraid of me in the neighborhood. Oh, that girl, if she hit a man you dead. So I established that reputation quite early. And you know I used it to my advantage, because my dad was a cop, and I feel like nobody was going to really go over there, you know. Don’t hit her too hard, man, you know. That sort of thing. But it was interesting, it was fun, and people always say that I was way before my time because I was such a strong girl that participate in all the sports and everything. He said, you’re before your time, they’re not going to let you to the Olympics, and I didn’t go to the Olympics, either. I did compete in swimming, with Leesburg, Ocala, but it was our people. We could not swim in your pools. It was not allowed. So I learned how to swim in the lake, alligators, crocodiles, whatever you call them. And snakes. I said I walked the water many days.

	J:	Which way?



	C:	Givet McQueen, out in the Washington Shores area, which was a dangerous beach, very dangerous. A lot of African American people died, cause they didn’t





know how to swim. The Lord blessed us in what, 1956, he sent this Jewish guy in our neighborhood. You know, we wanted to beat him up right away. You know, what you doing over here? You can’t come over here. He said, anybody know how to swim? No, we don’t know how to swim, you know. So he convinced us that he was really sincere about what he was doing, what he wanted to do for the neighborhood, and nineteen boys signed up for the swimming class. I was the only girl who signed up. And I was so happy, couldn’t swim. We went through training for a whole year and I still couldn’t swim, and so I would cry a lot. And Wolf come and say, I’m not going to give up on you, you’re going to do it, you’re going to be all right. And….

	J:	What was his name?



	C:	Wolf Kahn. Yes, Mr. Wolf Kahn. He passed away two years ago, and I found out from his son, who is my dentist, that I was his best friend, and I didn’t know that. I knew we were close cause we went lots of places together. But I didn’t know the part about being the best friend. But that was surprising to me. I knew his family, his wife, his two sons and daughter, and we were close. If they went some place, they included me. So that’s how I got a chance to cross over on the other side.

Because I had an opening where someone saw something in me and took the time to expose me to things that I ordinarily would not have been exposed to. So when I became a good swimmer, he would take me to John Long pool and all those other pools and he would say to me, I was very very fair, and I could cross over because my hair was blond. So he said, Vivian, we’re going to John Long, he says, and I want you to do me a special favor. I said what is it? He said, don’t





talk. He said, if you talk, you’re going to say, Hey, what it is? Hey, brother! Hey, dog, what’s going on? He said, no, we can’t do that. He said, you just keep your mouth shut. And I’ll introduce you, oh, you know, this is Vivian, she’s going to assist me in teaching the kids how to swim. So that’s how I got in. I didn’t talk. He said, oh, they’ll be trying to talk to me, I said, you know, I would just demonstrate, you know. And Wolf would say, she’s saying kick your feet. So he was my translator. And um…

	J:	So how long did you work with him teaching kids to swim?



	C:	Six years. And I passed as White for six years. So finally, I said to him, I said, you know what? I got to make up my mind what I’m going to do with this. And so he said, well, nobody said anything so far just don’t say anything. So I said, yeah, but I’m getting tired of living two lives. This is not going to work. So then I got married, I had a daughter, and my daughter is your complexion. So I said, uh oh, what am I going to do now? So I just made up my mind that I wasn’t going to play that, you know, on the east side and on the west side, whenever, you know. And so that’s pretty much how I came up. But I’m happy to be an African American, I’m proud of who I am. And I thank god for the experience of knowing both sides, because my father left my mother when I was sixteen years old, and he married a White woman and I lived with her. So I got a chance to see both sides. Oh, they shocked, look at his face, look at he, he still, what did she just say? You can cut that out, okay? If you like. But I’m saying that I am happy and proud of who I am, and I am thankful for the experiences that I’ve had, and I don’t wish to be anything else but who I am. I’m seventy-five, you know.





	J:	Well, could you tell us a little bit about your experience of passing?



	C:	Oh yeah, that was easy, that was the easy part. Because after my father married Eveline—she had three kids prior, her marriage before she married my father.

We moved to Detroit, Michigan, that’s what made it really easy. Left Florida, went to Detroit, Michigan, so I had no problem. And the kids were younger than me, you know, I was with them from age sixteen to age twenty-six, so I was the big sister. You know, Fonz, Gail, Randy, so they had to listen to me. And I didn’t play, I was rough, I was real tough. You do what I say, I’m the oldest sister, you know. And they were pretty much afraid of me, you know. But we got along okay, you know, Gail didn’t like me too well. That’s the middle girl, Eveline’s daughter. But Fonz and I were very close.

	J:	She’s the youngest?



	C:	She’s the oldest. Oldest of the three, we got along well. It was an experience. J:	Where did you move to in Detroit?

	C:	Oh, I moved to Buena Vista Drive, and then from there Southfield. Dad built a big brick house, beautiful home. And like I said, we lived well.

	J:	Was your dad a policeman in Detroit, too?



	C:	Dad didn’t get the job as a policeman. He lost his job and they blackballed him, excuse the expression. Because he married Eveline, so he was run out of town, he was fired from OPD, so he had to leave the city. And I went with my dad.

	J:	And what did he end up doing in Detroit?



	C:	He ended up being security guard at Check-Ins Clothes, Company. And he did that I guess about forty-five years, something like that, forty-five, fifty years. But





it’s a crazy story, you know, like, when he and Eveline got a divorce, then my father married Diana Ross’s mother. So I lived in the house with her. So my life was just interesting, I went from one stage to the other, with showbiz and everything, with the glamor and Berry Gordy and all that kind of stuff. I mean I just had a glamorous life, so everything was good for me, because I know, uh-oh, this is different, but hey, I’m sliding on in, you know. So that’s the attitude I had, and I just would fit, because of my personality.

	J:	Did you interact a lot with Diana Ross?



	C:	Oh, yeah, I used to travel with them. In fact, I was the creative dancer before they would come out and sing. And she tried to get me to sing and I didn’t want to sing, I had a lousy voice, of course. But she said you’ll never become a millionaire tipping on your toes, and she was absolutely correct. And I came back to Florida, nobody wanted to see ballet, nobody wanted to see that, you know.

Couldn’t sing, but she tried to encourage me, but I didn’t do it.



	J:	So you were on tour with them for a little bit. Where did you tour? C:	We went to different clubs and different places like that, you know. J:	In the Midwest, on the east coast, on the west coast?

	C:	No, it was mostly near Detroit area because Berry Gordy didn’t want us to go too far. He held sort of tight range on us, and I guess that was good because most of the girls were good looking, you know, fine, whatever, and young. Because Diana, when she worked full time for Berry, she had just graduated from high school. So all of us were young.

	J:	So you sort of saw the beginning of the legend.





	C:	Mhm, absolutely, absolutely. And then living in the house with singing and dancing going on all the time, now that was fun, because it was jolly time all the time. You know how families that get together and do things and the next thing, minute they arguing? We didn’t do that. We didn’t do that at all.

	J:	What were your impressions of Berry Gordy?



	C:	Smart man, he had a great vision, it worked. I, we looked up to him like a father. He did everything to our best interest, and that was good. Sometime you have people over you, they steer you in such a way that they intimidate you or they brainwash you, or something like that. But it was nothing like that, we had the opportunity to speak our opinion. And most leaders, you know, you can’t do that, you just, if they do like that you will jump, you know what I mean. But he wasn’t like that, he was real cool, real mellow, he said what he had to say, and he said, well, I don’t see it quite like that. Okay well tell me how you see it. That’s the kind of guy he was, Well tell me how you see it. And …

	J:	Did he listen to you?



	C:	Yeah, he would. We was at his house all the time. J:	Would he change his mind?

	C:	Yeah, he would change his mind. Diana says, no, I’m not singing. He wanted her to sing opera-type things, you know. Instead of, baby, baby. And then she says, no, I’m not going to do it. He says… you have to. She says, I quit. So she walks off, you know, and he’s sitting and he, wait a minute. [Phone ringing] Oh, now who’s calling me? I do apologize. Nobody calls me.

	J:	You’re a very popular lady.





	C:	Oh, that’s Judge Thompson. I wonder what’s going on? Anyhow, I said I had a pretty good childhood life and growing up and everything. It wasn’t so bad. It’s when I tried to get involved with all this stuff, with justice, and equal rights, and everything. I didn’t like it, I didn’t like it because I was always a happy person and I didn’t want the anger, I didn’t want to have that feeling of, why I got to be challenging, why do I have to attack, why do I have to be attacked? No, I don’t like this, no. So when civil rights came along I stayed out of the way, I stayed home. I didn’t march, I didn’t sit at no tables, no restaurants, or whatever, I just didn’t want to do that type of stuff. I didn’t want anybody to hurt me.

	J:	Were you in Florida?



	C:	Yeah, right here. Cause I came back. J:	You came back. You got married.

	C:	Yeah, and had …



	J:	Who did you marry?



	C:	Oh, I don’t want to talk about that. But… [Laughter] J:	You had a daughter.

	C:	Yes, I have a daughter. J:	What’s her name?

	C:	Her name is Angela Carrington. My husband I had for forty-five years, adopted her when we met, and at the time she was twelve years old. And so now she’s taking on the name Carrington, which she loves. She is a nurse and she resides in Tampa. Single, never had any children. And she’s happy like that, she has two rabbits, those are her kids. But anyways…





	J:	So you came back to Florida. C:	Yeah, I came back to Florida. J:	What year did you come back? C:	Uh, came back in 1968.

	J:	So you were in Detroit from 1956 to 1968?



	C:	So I was glad that I wasn’t there when all the rioting and stuff. I said I’m going to visit my mom, so when I went to visit my mom, I get this telephone call, hey, you know, they’re tearing up this place here. And I said, what? I never coming back there, I’m never going back there. And I didn’t. I didn’t go back. But I got an interesting life because, after Diana, dad’s wife, Ernestine, passed away of cancer. And then dad and I moved into the big house, that’s Diana Ross’s house. And that didn’t last too long, they didn’t like him too well. So, dad ended up going back to his old house, and that’s where I went with dad. But then I got to the point where I didn’t want to stay with my father, so I came back to Florida. And I’ve been here ever since.

	J:	What did you do when you got back?



	C:	Taught swimming. That was it. I said I’m going gung-ho with this, all the way.



Because I got with Wolf, and Wolf, told, Hey, I’m glad you’re back, I missed you. I said what’s going on? He said, we got a lot of kids to teach how to swim, we got to go to Hankins Park, we got to go across the street, we got to go … I said, what’s you doing on the west side? Teaching those kids how to swim? He said, I go anywhere. And I said, okay, that’s cool, I said they be receive you okay? He said sure. And so I started going with him, in those areas and then I decided to





teach swimming, you know. Be my own boss. I said, I want to become a coach. So that’s what I did, and I did that for fifty-four years.

	J:	So were you working out of the Y?



	C:	I was working at the YMCA, and then the Boys Club, and then after that, I started to teach swimming at my home.

	J:	You did that for forty-five years. Can you tell us a little about your students? C:	About the students? They all White. I couldn’t get any of my people to come,

because they didn’t want to pay the money to me. Oh, can’t you give me a discount? I said, I just did. Oh, I can’t pay that, I got four children. I said, I can understand that, and I said, Well, I’ll see you at the Y. So they would come to the Y and pay ten or fifteen dollars and take the course, you know, and I would teach the kids like that. But when I was giving private lessons, I had, what, Asian, people from Venezuela, and they were Caucasian, that was it. And when I got a chance to teach my people on a regular basis, I was old then. And then I didn’t have the energy and the strength. I’m going like, I’m tired, I’m seventy years old. I don’t want to do this anymore. So I didn’t get a chance to really get involved with my people as much. Only with, you know, like Judge Thompson, who just called me. Because he can afford it. If I tell him five hundred dollars for one week, he pays it. Bam, just like that. So I’m saying this in this way, because I was just that good. And I felt like I was worth it. Because I put in the time, I was showing videos, I give them demonstrations, I had puppets and all kind of stuff. I mean, I really had my stuff together. So I made a name for myself in the swimming





industry. And on top of that, I’m just like my dad, busy, busy, busy, busy. Went to school to become a funeral director, and I did that, too.

	J:	Where did you go to funeral school? C:	Gupton Jones in Atlanta.

	J:	Did you move to Atlanta? C:	Yes, I did.

	J:	When were you in Atlanta? C:	From 1982-1985.

	J:	And then you moved back. C:	Then I moved back.

	J:	And then you worked as a funeral director?



	C:	Absolutely. First job was at Baldwin Fairchild Funeral Home. And then I worked for Bruton’s Funeral Home, Kenneth Nitchel’s Funeral Home, Postel’s, you know. So I moved around. Then I got where I didn’t like that either. I said, I’m tired. I don’t want to do this anymore. So everything that I’ve done in my lifetime, I’ve enjoyed it immensely. But after a while, I said, uh, enough of this. I want to do something else. That’s why my family were not surprised when I went to go to for journalism at age seventy. My sister said, oh, yeah, I can believe that. And my mom, she said, Mom what do you think about Vi going back to college? Oh, that girl been going to college ever since she been in the world. She’ll never graduate. But I’m enjoying it. I really enjoy my life.

	J:	What are you studying currently?





	C:	Intercultural communication, now and I’ll probably switch. I just wanted to get in there. And it’s interesting knowing about different cultures, different people, it’s very interesting. And I’m glad that I’m at the age now that I can accept a lot of things. When you are younger you don’t, you’re scared, you know, you just petrified, like, oh, god, here come this person who, where they come from? What nationality are they? But as you get older you don’t do that, you don’t think like that, a human being is a human being. You know, and, duh, that’s it.

	J:	You said that during the [19]60s you didn’t get involved. C:	With the civil rights?

	J:	With the Civil Rights Movement and things like that. What did you see? Even though you weren’t involved, you were there. What did you see?

	C:	I didn’t want to be beaten up. I didn’t want anybody to hurt me. You know, because I didn’t bother anyone and I didn’t pick on anyone, but I was tough. You know, when I was growing up and everything. You know, half the kids were afraid of me so I didn’t get into many fights. But as I got older I began to see the brutality, and the hatred and stuff like that, and I said, mmm-mmm, I don’t want to deal with that, no. And so I just stayed away. I didn’t get involved like some people, Oh, it’s all right, we got to do this, we got to do that. I said, well you go ahead, honey. Help yourself, and for my arms, I let them go ahead. And that’s just the way I felt about it.

	J:	So did some of your friends get really involved in the Civil Rights Movement?



	C:	Oh, yes, they did and they didn’t like me for not, you know, for standing back. But I told them, I said, I was not born to fight for a cause, I said that’s not my calling.





And I still say that. I like to see change for the better. But I’m not the person to do it. I’ll pray for you, I admire you for having the guts to stick your neck out there to do whatever you do to help make a change. But that’s not my calling.

	J:	So from your perspective when you were looking at the community and seeing some of the experience going on, what were some of the things that stood out that really sort of galvanized people to action, what were some of the things that concerned them the most, some of the events that really got people to like—?

	C:	You mean, from what I experienced or what everybody did? J:	Well, what you saw. What you saw in the community.

	C:	I did see a lot of brutal stuff. A lot of negative stuff. I mean, you go to the store, now this was a trip. You walk in the store and the man say, “What you want, gal?” So you got to deal with that, somebody calling you a gal, and they saying it in a tone of voice, and you’re going like, now he messing with the wrong, but my daddy is a cop, I ain’t taking this. Not me. I said, I’m Officer Jordan’s daughter.

He go, Oh, well, what do you want, Miss Jordan? And I tell him what I want, and I said, put it on the ticket. I wouldn’t have money to put it on the ticket, and he put it on the ticket. And I leave the store and I’ll be so excited, I said, I got to tell somebody. You know, that sort of stuff. So when you experience certain things like that, you make up your mind that you don’t want to deal with bad stuff. And bad people, you say it within yourself, okay, I can afford that, I don’t have to get involved with that. Leave that to somebody else. And so that was my attitude and that’s what it is today. I’m not going to march for nothing. Sorry, that’s just not me.





	J:	Where did your daughter go to school?



	C:	Angie went to Hawaii when she was in the Navy for five years. And after she got out she went to Hawaii school, and then she came home to live in Tampa, and she went to school in Tampa. So now she’s a nurse, and I’m really proud of her.

	J:	When you guys were growing up as a family were you living in Orlando or living in Tampa?

	C:	We lived in Orlando.



	J:	Where in Orlando did you live?



	C:	Oh, now that’s another story. When I got divorced from my first husband, we were living in brand new apartments out in the Washington Shores area. They were called the Ohio Apartments. Very nice, but then I said, my daughter’s five years old, I will not raise her up in an apartment. So I went to an all-White community to buy a house. That was Tangelo Park, only people lived there were people who worked at Martin Marietta, or military. So when I went in the office the man said, you pretty thing come on in, what can I do for you? I said I wish to buy a house. He said are you Colored or are you Polynesian, or what. And I says, no, I’m Colored. He says, oh, I can’t sell a house to you. But I can tell you where you can go. Out in Washington Shores. I said, I don’t wish to live out there. I want a house right here and you’re going to sell me one. And so he said, Oh, where did you come from? Because I was just right to the point, and I looked at him like this. So he said, I can get in a whole lot of trouble, young lady, if I break the rule. I said, there’s a first time for everything. Let me see your houses. So he showed me around the area, you know, dragging me around, because he





kept flirting with me, you know, and I’m saying, mhm, just give me a house, I ain’t thinking about what you say. But anyway, you see, I chose the house that I wanted and he said, I was thinking about buying this house for my wife. And I said, no, look somewhere else and buy another—I said, This is what I decided for. He goes, Well, you’re a tough cookie, aren’t you. I says, I know what I want. I says, how much? He said, ten thousand dollars. I said how much money you need. He said, A hundred dollars down. I gave him the hundred dollars. He goes, Wow, where do you work? I said it’s none of your business, I don’t work. He said, well, you going to tell the truth, I said, I do. And that’s none of your business either. So I got the house.

	J:	What year was that?



	C:	1963. Cause see I kept going back and forth to Detroit, but I had, I wanted a home in Orlando where I grew up in. So I got the house and then I still will go back to Detroit for a little while. So my daughter got a chance to be raised in a house with a nanny and everything. I mean, I made it very comfortable for her and for myself.

	J:	So you made some good money when you were working with Diana Ross?



	C:	No, that money didn’t come from there. I don’t want to get into that. And I didn’t do drugs and I didn’t drink and I didn’t smoke. Sometimes it’s who you know. But I didn’t do anything illegal, thank the Lord for that. But like I said, I had a pretty good life, you know. Not a millionaire, billionaire like Diana Ross, but… I’m okay.

	J:	You know Geraldine Thompson and you grew up together.





	C:	We worked together with the museum. I started with it, I was going from house to house, door to door, interviewing people at the time.

	J:	What year was that? When you were doing that?



	C:	Oh, that was back in [19]79, 1980. And I decided I wanted to go to mortuary school, so I left, I left everything, I dumped it all on her. Okay, here Geraldine, here it is. Now you know these people, I’ve already talked to them, all you have to do is just get on the phone, and call them if you need any other information. I said, I’m out of here. Where you going, why you leaving me? I said, I’m going to college. Well what you going to be now? I said, a funeral director. Oh, my god, a funeral director.

	J:	So you did the initial sort of like interviews in the community and talked to them? C:	Mhm, mhm, a lot people that she has the information she has, came through me.

You know a lot of them. But I admire her when I came back and saw that she had things running and going. I’m going like, Whoa, she’s a smart lady, and she also retired from Valencia Community College. And she was a teacher there. Very smart woman. And now, she who she is now. Yeah.

	J:	Is there anybody else from your childhood that went on and did big things like when you were growing up here in Orlando?

	C:	Yeah, attorney Collier did quite well. I was proud of him, too. J:	You went to high school with him?

	C:	No, no, he went to school with my aunt.



	J:	And when did your dad come back to Orlando?





	C:	He came back, when did daddy come back? It was almost 1992, something like that. He moved back here because of his illness. My sister was taking care of him. And then he married again, he married a young woman. They’ve been together about 20 years.

	J:	He’s still married?



	C:	Uh-huh. Yeah, he got a young thing. J:	When you say a young thing…

	C:	Well she younger than m!? [Laughter] She’s seventy-one years old. I’m seventy- two and a half. That’s a young thing, a man ninety-one. [Laughter] But he’s ill now, and as far as I know she’s good to him. My father was honored a couple of years ago by OPD, and I was surprised that they did do that after they had fired him in 1953, you know what I mean? But he’s the last living person of the original group in 1952 that were hired as police officers for OPD.

	J:	Is that the original African American police officers? C:	Yeah.

	J:	How many were there?



	C:	Six. And they all passed away. Dad is the last one living, and … I don’t think he expected that when he, the recognition when he moved back here. Because like I said, he left on a sour note, you know what I mean? But that’s good that they recognized him.

	J:	There was a lot, it was a big deal to be a Black policeman.



	C:	Oh, gosh, yes, yes. I mean they treated you like you were a god. You walked down the street police officers they be bowing, oh, you know, you look good. It





was a great honor, and you know his children, his three girls, we stuck our chests out, like, hey, hey there Pa, that kind of thing.

		J:	Were there any complications that came from being a police officer? C:		Oh, yes, very racist, very racist.

	J:	Can you tell us a little bit about that?



	C:	Yeah, my father told me about an incident. He had been a police officer I guess three years, two or three years, and my mother wanted a Cadillac, a bronze Cadillac. So he bought a brand new Cadillac for my momma. So one day he decided to go somewhere, and he was driving the Cadillac, two White officers stopped him, told him to get out of the car, and he told them, I’m a police officer. Ah you talking back. And they threw him up against the car and twist him all around, and handcuffed him. I was just going to get my identification. They said, no, you was going for your gun. And I’m going to charge you for resisting arrest. So they kind of roughed him up pretty badly. So they did take him in, it was crazy. The chief said, what are you all doing? What is this, what’s going on? Oh, you know, this Colored person—you know they called the other word, the N- word—he was resisting arrest and we thought he stole the car, you know, he looks suspicious, blah, blah, blah. And the chief said, You can’t do this. You’re messing up, this is a police officer. I hired him. So they just got a slap on the wrist, you know. Nothing else was said about that. You know, that type of stuff, my father’s been through a lot of things, like, he had, let’s see, Church Street and Paramour, that’s the only two places they could walk. They were flat foot cops with their badge, you know, the thing that you hit the people with. And the White





cops they rode in the car, but the Black police officers could not, and they could not arrest a White person. No matter what they did, or whatever. Mm-mm, that was a no-no. We could not cross, here’s Church Street, and then you see side streets, like Short Street, you see Division, you see another street, and then you see Orange Avenue. We had to stop right where Division, and go back toward Orange Blossom Trail. Couldn’t go past Orange Blossom Trail to the tanker field, that’s a no-no, too. So they had, it’s segregation time, they had us, like in the middle. And that was our spot and that was it. You couldn’t cross it, if you crossed it, you went to jail and you got beat up. That’s the way it was. So like I said, I just stayed out of the way, I didn’t want nobody to hurt me.

	J:	So when you were going to school you went to Jones High School? C:	Went to Jones High School.

	J:	And you were on the sports teams. C:	Absolutely.

	J:	Where did you guys go to play when you were playing sports?



	C:	Not far, you know, Leesburg, Ocala, Apopka, it was local stuff. We never had the opportunity to go to out of state and all that. My father wasn’t going to hear that anyways. He was very strict with the three girls. I mean, strict-strict. Only time I got a chance to be around boys when they come up to my house and lift weights.

	J:	Is that why you like to life weights so much?



	C:	No, I just wanted to be strong, you know. My dad was right there, boys couldn’t do anything to me, dad’s right there. I mean his eyes, you know, so the boys got to act stupid like they don’t see me, you know. That kind of stuff. I see them later





at school, Oh, you drove me crazy, you know. Your dad was watching me like a hawk, you know. I used to get that all the time. It’s funny. It’s funny to me. I wasn’t interested in boys, all I wanted to do was play sports. But like I said, my friends would tell me I was way before my time.

	J:	And you say you studied ballet? Where did you study ballet?



	C:	Pat Butler, she ended being a pine set. She passed away I guess about fifteen years ago. She was a school teacher at Jones High, and she had her own business.

	J:	Okay, and it was dance? C:	Yes, I took dance lessons.

	J:	How many people did she teach? Was it like a dance studio, like Arthur Miller? C:	Yeah, it was a studio. It actually was a studio. There was only three of us there. J:	How long did you study ballet with her?

	C:	I first started and I went to this school, was White teacher, I don’t even remember her name. But I was about six, and then after that, I don’t remember her name. I do remember the area where we went, it was near Bloom High School, where the studio was. And then when Pat Butler came to Jones High School, we found out that she was a dancer, you know, and a teacher. And she asked was anybody interested, so only three of us signed up. It wasn’t many girls that wanted to tip on their toes, you know what I mean.

	J:	When was the first time you did a recital?



	C:	Oh, I had recitals all the time. I made my costumes, and I danced at Boone High School, oh, yeah, I was going to a lot of schools, like I said I was so fair they just





let me in, they wouldn’t question like, Oh, this is Vivian from Jones High School. Oh, really. Yes and she’s going to be performing tonight. Oh, okay, well right this way. And she has her pianist. Oh, she does? You know, I had my stuff together, you know. I acted like a professional, you know.

	J:	Who was your pianist?



	C:	His name was Teddy Rose. His mother was a retired educator. From Jones High School.

	J:	And you did like talent shows in the different high schools? Did you win? C:	I win all the time. That’s why I did it. I used to write plays and stuff.

	J:	Oh, really, what kind of plays did you write?



	C:	Um, plays like, in school and kids don’t want to study, or whatever. And then you say, Oh, you’re not going to ever get a decent education if you do this or do that. You know, stuff like that. Or I would do, write plays about flowers and the kids, I would make the costumes and they sitting down on the ground. Ooh ooh ooh.

They just talking, you know, or whatever. And then somebody come by there, Oh, these flowers can talk, you know. Stuff like that. I used to do a lot of things like that.

	J:	So you hit the circuit at the high school, and did you do any acting on stage? C:	Absolutely, in fact I still do that now. I have several agents, Diamond Agency,

Ben’s Agency, and whenever they call me to go and castings, or whatever. I just hope that I be selected, if I do. So that’s how I make my money back then. Did a lot of small stuff, you know, never wanted to be a movie star or anything. I just





wanted to just piddle around, little stuff. Touch this and touch that. And I would be satisfied with that.

	J:	So you said you didn’t like to sing, though. C:	No, I didn’t.

	J:	So it was just dance and acting.



	C:	Mhm, but I do sing in my church. Oh, they wear me out with that. I say I’m not coming to church on Sunday because my throat hurts. I’m tired, you know. My husband say, baby don’t do that, just sit there and look cute. You don’t even have to say, I just want you to be there. And I get there and I think I’m not going to sing, you know. And I got my eyes closed, my head back, and I’m just going on. Then I say, I told you I didn’t want to sing today. Well, honey, I didn’t know the song that you was singing. But he’s all right, he’s an all right guy.

	J:	So you’re going back to school—



	C:	Yeah, going back to school and happy.



	J:	And you’re working toward your doctorate?



	C:	Mhm, I’m going to make it because I’m going to live to be a hundred and twenty years old. Absolutely.

	J:	Well, you’ve got good genes. C:	Yeah, you got that right.

	J:	Well is there anything that we should be asking you that we haven’t asked you?



	C:	Unless you want me to say something negative about racism that I went through with.

	J:	Well, that all depends on what you—





	C:	Okay, Wolf Kahn, the water safety instructor that taught us how to swim, taught the African American people how to swim during that time. Like I said, it was nineteen boys and one girl, myself. And then after that, a few years later, six other girls joined in, and he taught them how to swim. And we always said, Oh, I’m so thirsty, I’m so tired, I sure wish I had some Howard Johnson ice cream. Well, they called us Colored back in those days. Colored people couldn’t go walk into Howard Johnson. You couldn’t get ice cream or get anything in there. You couldn’t even live to get a room there. So Wolf, our Jewish instructor, he would say, get on the floor and lie down, and he said, I’m going to take you all to Howard Johnson. I’m going in, I’m getting ice cream for everybody. So that’s what he did. But I would be sitting in the seat next to him. The boys would be lying on the floor. Why? They were dark skin. And the people had, if Caucasian people had seen, had seen them in the car, they was going to put Wolf in jail.

And he went to jail many times for us, they burned crosses in his yard, many times, his family was threatened. And he said, now you all stay down until I get back. It would be hot, it would be so hot in that car, you know, but I be sitting to move and they saw they saw us, mhm, yeah, Viv, she get a chance to sit up there and next to Wolf. And he said she [inaudible 53:34] and she can sit where she want to sit. You know, that’s what they would want to take up for me or something like that. And I said, Hey, shut up, don’t start that. Don’t go there. We going to get ice cream, you know, so Wolf comes back and he has all this ice cream, and he’s got to drive somewhere and go up under a tree, and pray to God nobody sees us. And so the boys they raise their heads and they sitting there





eating ice cream like this, and it’s going all over their hands, and everything. Because it’s hot, you know. But I remember experiencing that.

	J:	Where did Wolf live?



	C:	Wolf lived… let’s see where he first lived. Somewhere not too far from here, in the Altamont area. Then he moved to Faith Street, which is between Maitland Avenue and Maitland Boulevard. He sold his house and he moved in one of those living facilities. And then from there he moved to Mayflower, and that’s where he passed. You know were Mayflower is? I used to go there all the time and have breakfast with him.

	J:	When he was teaching you guys how to swim, he was working in the Black community, he was a Jewish guy, why did they light a cross on his yard, just because he was teaching you how to swim?

	C:	No because was dealing with us. That was the thing, they didn’t want him in the Black community, period. And they warned him, if we see you back over there again you going to jail, and they would actually put him in jail.

	J:	How many times did he go to jail?



	C:	I don’t remember, but I do remember we were at the jewelry store, which he owned. He owned a jewelry store at one time on Orange Avenue, and my mom and I were there, and these policemen came in and said, you are under arrest. We gave you fair warning and you didn’t comply, so we taking you to jail. So my mother, she gets on the phone, you know like on the phone, taking your finger and doing the telephone over there. She gets on the phone, she says, Jay, get here. They’re messing with Wolf, they have arrested him. And so my mother





hangs the phone up and he makes a call, and then somebody gets on the radio whatever, he’s sitting in the car and Wolf is in the back seat with his hand handcuffed like that, and mother’s angry. And so they called officers and tell him to release him.

	J:	Your dad called?



	C:	My mother called my father, my dad called someone, and Wolf didn’t go to jail that day.

	J:	So the jewelry store, he was teaching you guys to swim?



	C:	So he only had maybe, what, three hours to be with us in the afternoon. So he worked in the mornings until about five.

	J:	So he was just doing it because he wanted to do it?



	C:	He’s sort of like defiant. He had experience of being a true Jew, okay? J:	Where did he come from?

	C:	He came from Germany. He said his father died in prison, and the majority of the people who live at Mayflower now, they got a number on their arm, they was in concentration camp. You ever seen anybody with a number on them?

	J:	Did Wolf have a number?



	C:	No, his father did. But he knows about racism, he knows about being called a dog, you know. He said he wanted to swim in a place and they said no niggers and no dogs. So they considered the Jewish people as being dogs. So he said he experienced that.

	J:	How many years did he work teaching kids how to swim? C:	Who, Wolf? Until he was eighty-five.





	J:	So when, do you know when he came to Orlando?



	C:	I don’t remember, I have a book, there’s a book in the library at the Mayflower would tell me exactly when he came here. There’s a book about the Hans family, H-A-N-S, Hans.

	J:	So he came, and just because of his own experience he decided he was going to teach Black kids how to swim.

	C:	Mhm. And he didn’t take no for an answer either. J:	How did the Black community think about him?

	C:	Oh, we fell in love with him. At first, we objected you know, because we thought that he was trying to set us up for something, you know. And he tried to reassure you, I’m genuine. I just want to teach you all how to swim because I heard about all those Colored people dying at Gilbert and Queen Beach, and that is not cool. Nobody else wanted to teach us. So he would have this long stick, pole-like, and he would walk Gilbert McQueen Beach and he would go back and forth with his stick like this and he kept going and kept going, and finally he hit a spot where he went under. And when he came up he said, we can’t go pass this line, and he put the stick there and did like this, you know. That’s what he did, he did that for us. He was amazing. But we loved him. We loved him.

	J:	And he had three kids? And the Klan, I’m assuming, the Klan— C:	Oh, they got him, they on him all the time, all the time.

	J:	You said a cross on fire?



	C:	They would burn a cross in his yard where he lived. J:	They did that one time? Two times, three times?





	C:	I don’t know. I think it was two or three times. J:	And he still kept going.

	C:	Still kept going, he didn’t back off.



	J:	Did they ever hurt him or attack him? Or just threats?



	C:	I think it was more or less threats. Because I don’t remember him telling me that somebody hurt him, actually hurt him. Quite an interesting man.

	J:	And you say he passed away?



	C:	Yes. He made out a will, and in his will he said he wanted me to speak about him if he passed away. And I did.

	J:	What did you say?



	C:	What did I say? I said like some of you here, I know you are feeling what I am feeling today. Wolf was, he was an extraordinary man. I said I knew him when I was thirteen years old. I said I’m seventy-one now, and I can truthfully say he was always a gentleman. I said he never said anything or did anything out of the way that would cause any scandal or any embarrassments. I said he was a true gentleman, and I said I wanted his family to know that, he was just like my father to me. So that’s what I told them. I said but you know what? He did it his way.

And what I meant by that, that he didn’t allow anyone to threaten him to the point where he would back off. He just didn’t do that. He just go for the charge, you know. You say I can’t do it? He was going to do it, in spite of. That’s the kind of guy he was. And I think a lot of that rubbed off on me, too. It had to. But I still have that thing, like no, not me, I’m sorry, it’s not happening, you’re talking to the wrong girl. No I’m not going to go sit down. You have a dog, you sick a dog on





me? Oh, oh child, please. I’m glad I stayed home. Life is funny, isn’t it? And it’s amazing the things people go through, how their attitudes become, I’m not bitter about anything, and I’m glad I feel the way I feel. And I hurt when I see people, I mean I feel empathy for them when I know that they are going through things and I can’t help them. I just say, Oh god, take care of them, give them strength. And I don’t make comments, I don’t say things, like some people got to say something. Yeah, if I were you I wouldn’t … no, that’s not me. I’m not saying a thing. Keep my mouth shut.

	J:	Well, thank you.



	C:	You’re welcome. I hope it wasn’t too crazy, all the things I said. J:	No it was wonderful. Thank you very much.

	C:	Oh, yes, I do want to add this. I did experience something where you’re walking down the street, and they you decide you’re going to walk on the sidewalk. And you start walking on the sidewalk and you see these Caucasian people walking on the sidewalk, too. We had to jump in the mud, or jump on the side so they could have the whole entire sidewalk. Well, I did that once and I was with my sisters. And I got home and I told my father about it, I said, Daddy… I don’t like the rules that Caucasians got. I said, I had to jump in a puddle of water to give them the entire sidewalk. I says, Well Dad, I’m going to fight the next time because they going to jump in the water because I’m not moving. So the next time I had the experience where about three or four of them was approaching and I was going in the direction and just like that, and I just did one of these numbers like that. And looked at them just like that, and they start jumping on to





the side, just like that. And after I got past them I turned around and I looked and I said, Ah-ha! I started laughing so hard. [Laughter] I was like I’m going to tell somebody about this. And so after that experience I still have the same attitude, and they on the sidewalk and I go, [sighing]. You know, one of those kind of things. And they kind of look at me and like what’s wrong with that lady? You know they going to move alongside that. And I say, [Laughter] so that’s a little secret you know about me. I don’t back off, I’m sorry. [Laughter]

	J:	Thank you, that’s a wonderful way to end. [break in recording]

	J:	Tell us about Gladys Knight and the Pips.



	C:	Oh, yeah, oh they were singing. Smokey Robinson, oh. That was Motown. You know, and everybody was happy because they could contribute, give their input on their knowledge of the music industry. It was really a fun time, it was a fun time. You know, like I said, we didn’t get into arguments like most people do, you know. He like you better than he like me, and all this kind of stuff. None of the happened. There was nothing like that. Everybody felt like they was just as good as the other person, so when they have something to contribute.

	J:	When Berry Gordy was like grooming talent and helping to build their sound, like who were some of the people that you saw like him grooming, like he worked with Diana Ross?

	C:	Stevie Wonder. And the Jacksons, the Jackson 5. Those were entirely… J:	Did you ever interact with the Jacksons?

	C:	Oh, they was awesome, they were just downright awesome.





	J:	Did you ever work with Michael?



	C:	I didn’t work with him, but I met him. J:	How was he? Was he a nice kid?

	C:	Nice, all of them were nice. They had to be because the Jacksons wouldn’t have it any other way. He just wanted his kids to be successful, you know. Every parent have their own thing of how they want to raise their children. You know, and that was his way to keep them in line so they could be successful, be number one, which did happen.

	J:	So in Motown, we all know the Motown sound, recognize that. So Berry Gordy, the big thing is you know, getting people on the radio. What was his relation with like, radio stations, because you hear stories about how he was making deals, and working with DJs and doing all these things. But he’s also cultivating talent, getting out there.

	C:	Yes, he was. That was his gift. I mean, he couldn’t sing, he couldn’t play, so he just used his brain.

	J:	Give us some examples of how he would move people’s careers forward. What were some of the things that made him special?

	C:	They did a lot approaching him. Because Smokey went to him and said, Hey man, I got about a hundred songs, you know. And he goes, Yeah, you wrote all of that? And he said, Yeah, you got to hear it man, you got to listen to me, you know. And so that’s how it got started, you know. He did… the person who stood out the most to me was—what’s that guy’s name? That his father shot him?

	J:	Otis Redding?





	C:	Uh-uh, no. Oh gosh I can’t think of that guy’s name and he’s so popular. J:	What did he sing?

	C:	I’m trying to think.



	J:	Sitting on the Dock of the Bay? Is it not—that’s not him.



	C:	No, he sang something. Let’s see, Honey, honey, honey, something like that. [Humming] Sugar, sugar, sugar. What was the name of that guy? Ain’t nothing but the real thing baby. Who sang that? He and another woman sang it. He was very popular. He sang songs that you think he wouldn’t sing, real sexy like. Oh, anyway, it will come to me later on. But those people were so talented.

	J:	So what places did you tour to, like Chicago, pretty close? C:	Yes, Chicago.

	J:	Marvin Gaye.



	C:	That’s him. Marvin Gaye.



	J:	So he’s the one that really stand out? C:	Yes, to me.

	J:	You had a lot of interaction with him? C:	Not that much.

	J:	What do you remember about him? Why did he stand out, there was a lot of talent?

	C:	He was a lover, he was sexy, he was just talented. He was a sexy guy. You know.

	J:	Did he flirt with you?





	C:	Oh yeah, I had all of them flirt with me. But I didn’t, mmm-mmm. I was not a loose person, I was always particular, so to speak.

	J:	And you went on tour. Where did you go on tour when you went on tour?



	C:	You talking about Diana and them? I don’t remember where all we went. All I know is we were in this trailer, this big trailer. But I do remember this about her, after the show, we were going to the trailer and we just get drunk. We just party up something. Diana was always on the phone, trying to get another gig, I never saw her drink, I never saw her smoke. People say, Oh, I know she must have did drugs and….na na na na, not her.

	J:	Did other people do drugs on the scene then?



	C:	A lot of them, yeah. And I didn’t, I didn’t like that lifestyle, so that’s why I moved back to Florida.

	J:	So what would be a typical show, when you guys were having a show, like you would start?

	C:	Yeah, I would do my little dance, and then a group would come, Smokey Robinson do his thing with his group. And then the Temptations, oh, I liked them. Oh they were good. Um, I thought I was going to marry that guy, the singer in the Temptations, but I didn’t. He used to sing, get on his knee with me and have a flower like this, and he would be singing to me, and the girls talking like, Oh he’s getting on his knees! But I thought that was kind of cute. But I never said I do.

	J:	And then the finale of the show was the Supremes? C:	Yes, sir. The Supremes or the Jacksons, either one.





	J:	And so you guys were like a revue, like a Motown revue. And do a hit and like [inaudible 01:11:22] did a whole show. One ticket, all those acts.

	C:	And then we go to Berry’s house and we jump in the pool, you know. Have a good time. That was fun.

	J:	Did you ever go over to New York? Or did you stay in the Midwest?



	C:	Right, I never been to New York. I’ll be honest. I went to Chicago and Detroit, never been to New York during that time. I’ve seen New York afterwards, but not in the professional aspect of it.

	J:	Who were some of the people who you thought were going to be big, but they didn’t? Like at Motown, because you always hear stories about, I thought for sure they were so talented, but they never made it.

	C:	Well, Mary Wells was talented, but she messed up. She thought she could make more money without Berry. And she didn’t. And so what Berry did, he put Diana Ross in the spotlight. She did well, she and the girls, she did well. And then he decided she should go on her own. And she did extremely well, just like he convinced Michael Jackson to go on his own, and he did extremely well. It caused a division in the Jackson family, but it is what it is.

	J:	Did you ever meet his sister? C:	Whose sister?

	J:	Michael’s sister.



	C:	Talking about Janet? Oh, yeah, they were little kids, little something. Little kids. J:	Did you meet any movie stars, like Sidney Poitier?





	C:	No I never seen Sidney, no. They were very popular back in those days, weren’t they, Nancy Wilson, and quite a few of them. They were very popular back in those days.

	J:	Dick Gregory?



	C:	No, I never met him.



	J:	What did you drive around then, in Detroit?



	C:	I was always in a limousine, I don’t know what nobody else does. White chauffeur would be driving, and I’m in the back seat with my heels up, and we’re talking about, oh, when are we going shopping girls?

	J:	[Laughter]



C:  Diana Ross’s mother Ernestine was quite a woman. She loved me, she really loved me. But that’s when she was married to my father. She and I were very close… “Got some money, girl! When we going shopping?”

	J:	So you’re Diana Ross’s, like half-sister? C:	Yeah, my step-sister.

	J:	Did you have any connections with the rest of the family? C:	Oh, yes, the entire family. Yeah, absolutely.

	J:	Like her daughter’s an actress now.



	X:	Where did you go shopping in Detroit? What part of town?



	C:	I don’t remember what part of town, but I think we went to Nordstrom’s, what was that other one, Saks Fifth Avenue. I don’t remember the street of the section of town or anything, but we couldn’t have been in a bad neighborhood, we were riding in limousine, okay?





	X:	Was it like the suburbs or like downtown?



	C:	I think it was, I don’t know whether it was downtown or in the suburbs, but all I know is we shopped, but it wasn’t many African Americans shopping where we went.

	J:	Were there any other than you?



	C:	It wasn’t that many. It wasn’t. I would run into Dionne Warwick, you know, Dionne Warwick. A few other people but there wasn’t many… so it had to be an upscale place where we went.

	X:	Was there official segregation like there was down here? Or was it more how most people lived?

	C:	Mmm…



	J:	Was there like a street in Detroit where you couldn’t cross, like you could not go past this street in Detroit?

	C:	You know, I don’t remember. I really don’t. Because after we left Buena Vista we went to Southfield, so I don’t know, I never did investigate to see. I would have to look back over my notes of when things happened that were documented, that’s the only way I could tell. But from memory I don’t remember whether there was segregation or not.

	X:	So how did your dad meet Diana Ross’s mother? How did your father meet Diana Ross’s mother?

	C:	Well, my father was a writer, and also a singer, and he wanted to have his record published. So he approached Diana through Berry Gordy.

	J:	How did he meet Berry Gordy?





C:  How did my dad meet him? Oh, I don’t know. All I know he, by the same way is Smokey Robinson and the others did, you know, they had a song. Like Smokey went to him, I wrote a hundred songs! And you know…

J:   He just walked up to him.



	C:	Yeah, he just walked up and told him, Did you hear me on the radio? I wrote a hundred songs. And he goes, Oh, you did? So he had his attention, you know. My father did pretty much the same thing. And Diana Ross’s mother happened to be at his house at the time. She took one look at him, he took one look at her.

And it was on. They said I know you told me he was married or just like that.



	X:	Do you have any of your dad’s old records? C:	Yes, I do.

X:   What name did he do them under?



	C:	The first song my dad wrote was, “Falling in Love with Me.” I’ve Fallen in Love with You,” or something like that, I have it. It’s copywritten, I’ve got it, it’s about to fall apart, but I still have it.

	J:	Was it performed on the radio? C:	In Detroit, but not here.

	J:	So was he the singer or did he just write the songs?



	C:	Oh, he was a singer also. He had a quartet here. There was a guy named, they called him Clyde on the Cloud, he was the first African American man to be a disc jockey back in the day, in the [19]40s and [19]50s. They called him Clown McClyde. Clyde on the Cloud. He sang, yeah, [deepening voice] “This is Clyde on the Cloud,” he had a deep voice. My father had this group, they practice all





the time. So my father moved to Detroit, he had lots of songs he had written. Some, that’s how he got started with Diana Ross’s mother Ernestine, but she’s my partner, they didn’t know she was crazy about me.

	X:	So where was your father from? C:	Orlando.

	X:	Orlando? Where were his parents from?



C:  Orlando. I remember my grandmother, very classy, stunning woman. She didn’t work, she was a housewife and my granddaddy worked hard. I don’t know what he did.

	J:	What were their names? C:	Jordan.

	J:	Do you remember his first name, your grandfather’s first name?



	C:	My grandfather was called Lee Jordan. My grandmother was, her name was Nicey Jordan. Strange name, Nicey, but that’s what it was. And that’s on my father’s side. My mom’s side they were the Phillips. My granddaddy was Thomas Phillips, my grandmother was Amanda Phillips. And they lived very well, too. All their kids, he had 13 kids, and they all were educators, all except one. This one uncle of mine, he’s ninety-seven years old. He didn’t go to college, but I’m going to tell you he was smart, he was something like an architect. So he saved his money from being a chef, you know, over the years traveling all over the country, world, or whatever. And he had so much money, so he started building houses. He has about fifteen houses over in Georgia someplace, and then they got them all rented out, too. They used to pick at him, they used to say, Yeah… He got





these little raggedy houses over there, but apparently he lived well because they didn’t ask him for anything. And the houses are still existing. Some in Alabama and some in Georgia. And he’s ninety-seven years old.

	X:	Where does he live? C:	Alabama.

	J:	Where in Alabama?



	C:	I can’t think of where it is. I always have to look it up in my little book.



	J:	North Alabama? South Alabama, or central Alabama? Near Birmingham or Montgomery?

	C:	No, I don’t know.



	X:	Do you know about your great-grandparents?



	C:	Yes, my great-great grandfather was Senator Henry Clay, who was the secretary of state in the United States of America. Now I don’t, I never did meet his wife. I think her name was Virginia. My sister was named after one of her children.

Theodis was the boy’s name, and my father named my sister Lafrieda Theodis. And instead of calling me Virginia, he called me Vivian, and there was another kid, and my father named my sister Yovanne, so we have part of the names of the great-grandchildren, great-great-grandchildren. And people ask me, Well how you got to be a Jordan? In Augusta, Georgia, there is a center there that the families celebrate. The Jordans, the Clay, the Jordan, and something else, some other name. They celebrate every year in Augusta, Georgia. And they said that my great-grandfather Henry Clay’s picture’s there and my grandfather’s picture’s there, and then my dad’s, and then on down the line. I haven’t been there to see





it yet, but I hope I get a chance to go see. And they asked the question, how did the name Clay, how did that come about? I says, well, my grandfather was a slave, and he chose not to continue to be a slave so he ran away. Dropped the name Clay, named himself Jordan. That’s how he ended up being Jordan, my maiden name is Jordan. So that’s how it happened, that’s why we don’t have access or we’re heirs to the Clay wealth. And you know he was wealthy. Look it up on the Internet and you see that.

	X:	So where did he run off to?



	C:	Went to Georgia. No, first he went to Virginia, then from Virginia to Georgia.



Fitzgerald, Georgia. Never heard of it, have you?



	X:	No.



	C:	I know it.



	X:	And they couldn’t, they didn’t track him down?



	C:	I guess they couldn’t. You know when you want to get, when you want to become hidden, you just …

	J:	Was he fair skinned?



	C:	Yes. Because you could get by like that. I mean, if you got a dark spot everybody gonna see it. There he go. If you got a little color to you, you can get by.

	X:	So when you were in the projects you said there was status. How did status work?

	C:	How did it work? Who your parents were. That’s the category you were placed in. X:	And what gave your parents higher status or lower status?





	C:	Well, that’s just the way African American people thought, didn’t they? That they think, if your parents were school teachers, oh, the kids are so nice and uh, uh [rambling]. You know, that’s the way it was.

	J:	It had a lot to do with your job, the job your parents had?



	C:	Yes, absolutely. If your father was a garbage man, hey, “And your dad he does garbage,” you know. “Oh, your father’s a police officer? Oh, you girls are such nice girls,” and we could have been the worst kids in the neighborhood, you know what I mean? But they have already placed us where they wanted to place us.

	X:	So you talked about these boundaries that you couldn’t cross. When do you remember being able to come here and not have to worry about crossing those boundaries? People beating you up, and the police and all that?

	C:	Oh, when did it change? Okay they had integration, but there still was boundaries. I’m trying to think exactly when things really changed and we could go the movie theaters, we could go to the parks, we could go everywhere, and I don’t remember what year that was. But I remember when they changed it. I remember when my husband and I got married in 1969, I had to carry my marriage license around with me because cops kept stopping us saying, what are you doing with a White girl in your car? He said my wife not White, she Colored. You know so I had to pull out my marriage license and show it to them. So I did that for a long time, I guess about a good four or five years by the time it stopped, because I get darker and darker staying in the sun teaching swimming, so I start turning, you know. I look one day I say, Oh, I’m a different color here.

And my husband said, I’m glad because I’m tired of cops stopping us asking the





same stupid question. But I remember we were sitting in a restaurant and my husband said, you know what honey? I said, What? I remember one time we couldn’t come in here. I said, Oh, that’s right, come to think of it, you’re right. That was 1969. That was a long time ago.

J:  So 1969 that’s when you got married to your husband. And then you said about four or five years you had to carry around your… so things might have changed around 1976, [19]75, [19]76.

C:   Yeah, a little bit.



J:  Who was the president? Do you remember who the president was when things changed?

C:   Mmm-mmm.



	J:	But you clearly remember on year you couldn’t go someplace, and then the next year, oh it was okay for you to go.

	C:	I wouldn’t go anywhere by myself, but when I got with my husband, I was like, Okay, here we go again.

	J:	So when you were teaching kids how to swim did they know you were Black? C:	Later on they found out, yes. But at first, no. For six years, no.

	J:	When you were working with Wolf Kahn? They didn’t know you were Black, but then when you came back later and started teaching you decided you were going to tell people know that you were Black.

	C:	And it worked out fine. Because I had established my reputation then. So I guess they say, Oh, it’s integration [inaudible 01:28:28].

	J:	Did you teach people how to dance, too?





	C:	No, no I didn’t.



	J:	No entertainment stuff, no acting or anything, just swimming? Did people know you had gone to Detroit and had been an entertainer?

	C:	They knew. They hated me for it, too. X:	Jealousy?

	C:	I don’t know what it was. All I know is they were, “Mmm, be quiet.” No, I wanted a good job, I didn’t want to be beat up, so if I get by I got by.

	J:	You’re still serious they—



	C:	They didn’t like it. Mmm-mmm, they thought that was the worst thing I could have done. But they got over it.

	X:	So they never went up and lived with your dad up there? C:	They never did go.

	X:	Up with your dad to Detroit? C:	No, I was the only one.

	X:	So what was it like when you made that decision?



	C:	It was easy because the White woman my father married, she loved me. I knew her right here in Orlando, Florida. I used to babysit her kids. So when they moved to Detroit, well, she sent for me, she said I want you up here. I said, Oh, you want me to babysit those bad children? I said, I’m going to beat them half to death.

And she goes, Oh, don’t do it like that, get a wet towel and hit them with it. If you use a switch or a belt you’re going to scar them all up. You know, scar them all up. And I said, okay, I’ll do it your way. And I said, Well, I’m gonna tell you I’m not cleaning no house. Cause I’m not being a maid to nobody, so don’t ask me to do





dishes, don’t ask me to scrub the floors, don’t ask me to do nothing. Just to watch them. And she said, Okay. So I went up there, I didn’t have to cook, I didn’t have to wash, I didn’t have to do anything but, All right, you better do, all right. I’ll get you girl. That’s all I had to do, you know. So that was fun.

	X:	How did your dad meet her?



C:  He was a police officer and he worked as a waiter at Mark’s Cafeteria, so he met her there. She was a cashier. And she fell in love with him, and I guess he fell in love with her because he quit my mother for her. That was that.

X:   Do you know how her family responded to the relationship?



	C:	Oh, her sister, she and I were very close. She had two sisters and they were okay, they were cool about it. And I was, like I said, I was babysitting them, I got a chance to go to the house on the east side of town where we were not allowed to go. But I was over there, drove my daddy’s Cadillac every time I got ready, took the kids to the beach, nobody said anything to me. I had three kids there, we got their blanket out on the sand and leaned back and I got a towel over my face because I don’t want to burn. They said, Why do you put the towel over there, I said, I don’t need no tan. I don’t need no tan. That kind of stuff. But it was interesting.

X:  Where did Black people go to the beach back then? C:  They didn’t. “Let’s go the beach”… “I don’t think so.” J:   There was no Black beach that you could go to?





	C:	Nothing but Gilbert and Queen beach out there near Washington Shores. You know, and that wasn’t really a beach. It was just some Black sand there and then you step in the water. But we called it a beach.

	J:	Was there any place on the coast that people could go to, like near Daytona? C:	Mmm-mmm, no that ain’t coming until later.

	J:	Oh, really, okay.



	X:	You talked to people from St. Augustine and they said they’ve rushed the beach once. Did that every happen like over here by Cocoa, like in this area?

	C:	I don’t know.



	J:	Like a wade in, like people basically went in en masse onto the beach. C:	Oh, they did?

	J:	Yeah, they did during the Civil Rights, they called it.



	C:	Oh, well, see, I didn’t know nothing about that. I didn’t know anything about Civil Rights, just all I saw on TV, that’s all. I don’t know when they started sitting at the counter tops and when they went to the beach. I don’t know. I don’t have a clue.

	X:	So your dad moved up to Detroit with this woman, and then he met Diana Ross’s mother.

	C:	He was married to the White woman for eighteen years, and they got a divorce, and dad wanted to promote his music, so that’s how he ran into Berry Gordy, Diana Ross’s mother, and Diana Ross. That’s how that happened.

	X:	Where did he live in Detroit when he first moved there?



	C:	On Buena Vista Drive. Very beautiful home. He built the house himself. J:	Is it still there?





	C:	It’s still there.



	J:	You said he made home movies of you and your sisters of sporting events? C:	No just us walking down the sidewalk, or …

	J:	Does he still have them? C:	I don’t know, probably not.

	J:	Have you asked him about the home movies lately? C:	I will ask him, yes.

	J:	Those are unique.



	C:	Very unique. Even had the collection the Mickey Mouse, you know, the original. I don’t even know where it is. Mickey Mouse and Donald Duck? The movies and the [inaudible 01:34:25] yeah, it was worth millions of dollars. Remember when Disney World came here and they were asking people if they had them?

	X:	These are like the reels?



	C:	That’s right, and my dad said he couldn’t find it. I said, dad, you just lost out on being a millionaire, you know.

	X:	What did you do for fun in Atlanta?



	C:	In Atlanta? Embalmed dead people. Now that was fun to me, when I did my internship, ah man, I loved it. And after that one year, I said this is not my calling. So all I did was just direct and tell people what to do. But I’d couldn’t go in that embalming room. No way.

	X:	Where did you live in Atlanta?





	C:	Lived on, what was it, Chestnut Street. I think it was Chestnut. Not far from the school, the school’s name was Gupton Jones and we always kidded about that, Gupton Jones, guts and bones.

	J:	What part of town was it in, Gupton Jones? Is it up north or south?



C:  That was on Zion Hill, I forgot what section that was. It was a nice area. You had kids, the guys, they lived in the dormitories so I had to have an apartment across the street from the school. Because there was no girls in the dorm. It was about a hundred sixty-five males, and three females in the whole school, so you know we stood out. It was interesting.

J:   Was it, once you got your degree you worked at…



	C:	I did my internship one year, through Doctor Gaines in Daytona Beach. And then I came to Orlando to start working at Baldwin Fairchild Funeral Home. And then from there I started working at different African American establishments. Because I had to let people know I’m back in the community now, I couldn’t stay on the White side of town, east side because they didn’t know me. I didn’t grow up over there. I came back on the west side, and everybody, Oh, girl, you a funeral director? So that’s the status. That’s the status.

	J:	Do people still remember you? C:	Oh, they remember me.

	J:	And you were able to get work in Black funeral homes? How many Black funeral homes did you work for?

	C:	Every one of them. Every one.





	J:	How long were you a working funeral home director? How long did you do that work?

	C:	From 1986 until two years ago, when I decided to go to Rollins. I said I don’t have time now. I said Rollins is it, this is it.

	J:	So you retired from being a funeral home right now?



	C:	Mhm, but I keep my license up. I’m going to always do that. And I keep my license up for swimming, too. I always do that. And as a beautician, I still have my license for that.

	J:	You were a beautician?



	C:	Yeah, I had owned two shops, two beauty salons in Orlando. J:	When did you own a beauty salon shop?

	C:	One on south street. And the other one was the Golden Door on Columbia Street in Washington Shores.

	J:	When did you do that?



	C:	When did I do that? In the [19]70s.



	J:	So you had two beauty shops. How many people working for you? C:	One shop had eight ladies and the other shop had two.

	J:	And they were successful?



	C:	Very successful. Number one beauty salon in Orlando. J:	Number one beauty salon?

	C:	Yeah, Golden Door was number one beauty salon. J:	When did you go to beauty school?

	C:	I went to an all-White school downtown on Palmetto Street. Downtown.





	J:	When did you do that? C:	1970.

	J:	So you got a beautician’s license to open a beauty salon? Were you working with Black people or White people?

	C:	White.



	J:	On both shops or one shop Black people one White people? C:	That’s good.

	J:	That’s what happened, one’s all Black people, one’s all White people, yeah okay.



And in Washington Shores, how many people worked there?



	C:	Eight. That was a big shop, huge.



	J:	And how long did you do that? You did it for like—? C:	Until I went to Gupton Jones in 1982.

	X:	What made you decide to change careers after that? C:	That’s my personality.

	X:	You just like doing new things. C:	That’s me.

	J:	So did you sell the shops? C:	Yes.

	J:	Who did you sell them to?



	C:	Oh, a young lady, she’s retired now. I sold it to her. Miss James, and the other shop, that didn’t last too long, maybe about three years, and I just gave that up. Went on to school.





	J:	All right, so you was working with the singing and the dancing. That was in Detroit, then you came back, you was a beautician, then you went to mortuary school, then you were a funeral director…

	C:	And still teaching swimming. Didn’t give that up.



	J:	Never gave that up. So while you was doing beauty school, you was teaching people to swim?

	C:	That’s right.



	J:	You was always doing that?



	C:	Always doing that. Even as a funeral director. I’ll conduct a funeral and, Hi I gotta go. I said, I got some students, I got three students waiting on me and I got to go. I get in my car and I take off. [Laughter] I get home I go, Hi! I say, Am I late? And she said, no, I’m early, my kid I had her reading a book. I said, okay, I’ll be right with you shortly! And I got to take off my suit, you know, and put on a bathing suit and stuff like that. Oh boy. I don’t see how I juggled all that all those years. But I was having fun, you know.

	J:	Any other careers you want to tell us about?



	C:	Let’s see, let me think. No, we talked about doing commercials, yeah, I did that. X:	No, we didn’t hear about that. [Laughter]

	C:	Yes I did! You know when I was telling you, I told you, you know I’m used to getting paid, remember my saying that?

	X:	But you didn’t say why.



	C:	Oh, I didn’t tell you about it? Oh, yes, I do commercials, I have agents. Diamond Agency, Ben’s, that’s what I was talking about.





	J:	I thought you meant that’s when you… okay, okay. X:	So what commercials have you been in?

	C:	It’s one that’s talking about the Hook Around commercial, and I’ve done commercials with products and different commercials. I do more print than anything. I have magazines and books that I’m on.

	X:	What magazines?



	C:	I don’t even know the name of them, I’ve got a bunch of them there in the box. You know different stuff, like, Rollins always has something periodically. When they have people to come out and take pictures and they put them in little books and magazines and stuff like that. I’ll show it to you one day when I go to your office. I’ll bring one and show it to you. And in fact they filmed it right in the chapel. One day I had the robe on and everything.

	J:	I know exactly what you’re talking about. C:	Yeah, have you seen that little book?

	J:	I haven’t seen that particular, but I’ve seen it. They do it every year. It’s a new book. Didn’t you travel outside the country?

	C:	I haven’t been any place but, what, Hawaii. J:	Any place else?

	C:	That’s a shame. My dream is Spain, that’s my dream. So I think I’m going to do traveling through Rollins. That’s why I said I got to switch from interculture relations, I got to go do something else.

	J:	International relations?





	C:	Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, I have to do that. Before I leave this earth. That would be interesting. I need to learn Spanish though.

	X:	You can do it.



	C:	It’s in, it’s in. You said I can do it? X:	You can do it.

	C:	Oh, bless your heart. Vote of confidence in me. That’s sweet. X:	So where else did you live?

	C:	Where else did I live? X:	Yeah.

	C:	That’s it, Chicago, Detroit, here in Orlando. X:	When did you live in Chicago?

	C:	Oh, that’s right next door to Detroit. Yeah I had some friends that lived there.



Cold, cold.



	J:	When did you live there? C:	In the [19]60s.

	J:	When you were working with Motown?



	C:	Yeah. I got a chance to over. And I went to Lansing a lot because I was a bowling champion. Lansing, Michigan.

	X:	Oh yeah, where Michigan State is.



	C:	Yeah, big boys like Dick Wbber and all of them, got a chance to see them bowl all the time.

	X:	When did you start bowling?





	C:	You wouldn’t believe this, I started when I was older. 1975, I joined a bowling league. And I practiced every single day. In 1978 they had the Florida State Championship Bowling at the bowling lane on Highway 50. And I was in that tournament and I was number one. I received so much money and so many trophies that year, and then I didn’t bowl in the league any more. Somebody said, you used to bowl, practice every day. Why you stop bowling? I says, well, I figuree like this, if somebody hit their peak, don’t be stupid. That’s it, that’s history. I said I might try it again, that’s how I end up being the last of the totem pole. Mmm-mmm, that’s not happening to me. I’m up here and I’m going to stay up here. So that’s the attitude I have, I didn’t bowl anymore.

	J:	Did you take up anything after that, any sports after that? C:	I still play tennis.

	X:	Golf?



	C:	I wasn’t too good at golf, I tried that, yes, but wasn’t too good. My father was real good at it.

	J:	Where did he play?



	C:	He played here in Orlando. He was a cop. J:	But what golf course did he play on?

	C:	I don’t know, but he was with some White boys. I’m trying to think, there’s something else that I do. Oh, yes, I love pinball machines. Don’t laugh when I tell you this.

	X:	I have a friend who is a champion in Pittsburgh. It’s called Pinburgh, seriously. C:	You?





	X:	No, a friend of mine. C:	Really?

	X:	Yeah.



	C:	What does he play at?



	X:	At his house he’s Playboy, he’s got Terminator, he’s got a bunch. Like newer ones. Like a thousand people play.

	C:	Yeah, yeah, that’s neat. Well I go up to Waterford Lakes at a place called the Arcade, or whatever the name is. And I play the pinball machine, I am good. And I shoot the bucks, I am good. I’m not going to freeze anytime I feel like it. You know, I just love the game and I try to go at least two or three times a week. My husband doesn’t play, he just stands there and look at me. Oh, baby, you good. You know, that’s what he says.

	J:	When did you start playing pinball?



	C:	Ever since I was little, and I never did stop. It’s fun.



	X:	You should play in Pittsburgh. You’ve won all these other sports.



	J:	You should go to the tournament in Pittsburgh is what he’s saying. I’m sure they have like a thing—

	C:	But I’m not good at cards. I tried cards, but I was never able to master it. So I said, eh.

	J:	So you played tennis, you play, you tried golf and didn’t like it. C:	And bowl.

	J:	And swim. And bowl.



	C:	I used to bowl in Lansing, Michigan, all the time.





	J:	You played softball when you was younger.



	C:	Yes, I was on a team called the Jazzerettes, softball team. The Jazzerettes. J:	Was that like a youth league?

	C:	It was a softball team. It was adults, we were in our 40s. We old folks, but it was fun.

	J:	Where did you guys play, like it was just in Orlando? C:	Yeah. Just in Orlando.

	J:	Was it like a league? C:	It was a league.

	J:	Did you win the league championship?



	C:	No I didn’t stay with it that long. I enjoyed it immensely. J:	Any other sports you play?

	C:	Shoot pool. I love to shoot pool. I like that. [Laughter] J:	Where did you shoot pool at?

	C:	Anywhere. I’d go to the, I used to go the base all the time, because my daughter was in the military. And anywhere I see a pool table. They had a pool table in Lincoln Mercury dealer. They have one in there. The office, and every time I have my car serviced or whatever, I’m in there shooting pool. I have a good time.

	J:	You never hustled anybody in pool did you? No, okay. C:	No.

	J:	No I believe you. Cause I would think like a pretty young lady with a pool thinking, or a guy might think, Oh, she don’t know how to play pool. And then they might start playing you and, Oh, I’m bad, I’m bad. I bet you… and they’re





like, Oh sure, I’ll bet you, too. And then before they know it, you got all the money.

	C:	That’s sweet. I used to do the guys like that in college, when I was at—I guess I was about forty-two years old at Gupton Jones in Atlanta. And this boy he used to love to play racquetball, and he’d be bragging about who he beat and everything. So I said, Hey, I’d like to play racquetball with you. So he started laughing, how old are you? I said forty-two, what that got to do with how old I am? Oh, you know you can’t play no racquetball. I said, Well, if given the opportunity, I would love to play. He said, [Laughter], he thought it was a joke. When I got there I beat him so bad, he didn’t even come to school the next day. When I did see him he goes, don’t tell nobody, don’t tell nobody. I say, I’m not— my lips are sealed. I mean, I beat him raggedy, he just falling all downhill, I had him going so fast, he was just, Oh! Oh boy, I got a kick out of that one, you know. Especially when I’m playing sports and I do well. I like that. My daughter and I used to throw darts a lot, you know. She never could win. So couple of years ago we was playing darts and she kept putting it right in the middle, and I’m going like, and she goes, Hah-hah. And I said, uh-huh, you learn the game, huh? She went, I got to tell somebody I never been my mother doing anything! I got to! I got to! And every time she sees someone she said the same thing: You know I can beat my mother throwing darts? I never was able to beat her doing anything. We always had fun like that. And she found out I play dart, I mean I shoot the bucks, now she’s doing, she goes like every day. In Tampa. She going to a place, shooting bucks you know.





	J:	She gonna challenge you to a game? C:	Yeah! She does that.

	X:	Has she ever beat you at the bucks?



	C:	Yes, you couldn’t tell her anything. We have fun together. We take trips together as well.

	J:	Where are some of the places you gone?



	C:	We’ve gone to San Francisco. We are thinking about going to Alaska. We are planning the trip now for July of next year.

	J:	A cruise?



	C:	Yes. Just the two of us. We have lots of fun together. I remember when we went to California and she said, Let’s take the ship over to Oakland. So I said, I don’t want to go to Oakland. There’s a lot of Black people live over there? She said, Yeah. I said I don’t know if I want to go over there. So she said, Oh, come one, momma, let’s see if we can have some fun. Oh, okay. So we get on the ship, we’re going to Oakland and we get there and we doing shopping and everything, and then it’s about ten o’clock at night. And we missed the ship. The ship is gone and I said, Hey, I’m in Oakland! So I’m panicking. I don’t want to be in Oakland. And she said, mom, don’t panic, we are going to be okay. I said, What are we going to do, how are we going to get back.? And so we were walking down the street and everything and I am looking, and oh, lord. And I see this sign it says, some jazz something, this guy’s name, Farrow. And she said, Momma, let’s check this out. And I said, There’s a lot of people around, how are we going to get in, you need reservations. Anyway we got in, the tickets were forty-five





dollars a piece, and we got in and that was the best show I had seen in my life. I enjoyed myself, this guy was terrific. He was seventy years old, but he could play that saxophone. And he had a White guy who was a drummer, that guy was so good, I mean you just be mesmerized just looking at him. And the piano player, the keyboard player was awesome. But we had a good time that night. And then we had to figure out how we were going to get back to San Francisco. [Laughter] And so we caught the train or something. But that was scary, though.

	J:	Was that the only trip that you have taken, to San Francisco?



	C:	No, my daughter and I we go all the time to different places. We’ve been to Hawaii.

	J:	Where else have you been, besides Hawaii and San Francisco?



	C:	Just to Detroit, Chicago, Lansing. Hawaii I been there three times. And each time I go to Hawaii I stay a whole month. I mean, because paying that kind of money you might as well stay for a little while, I mean, not no weekend thing, I mean you got to stay here a little while. That’s about it. I been busy.

	J:	Busy with?



	C:	Doing stuff, just doing things, you know. I have one regret though. My only regret I have is that all of the things that I’ve done in my life, I should have stuck with just one thing and became a millionaire. But my personality was versatile, I like doing lots of different things. I can’t help it. I’m just that way. Some people, you know, they say, What you thinking about or what’s wrong with you, why you switch, why did you do that? That’s just the way I am. That’s the way I am. And it’s just going to make me happy, and I love everybody; and I stay away from





riots and debates and stuff. I don’t have nothing to do with it. I look at this guy, Al Sharpton, I look at him I say, Lord, you getting old, man. Look at your face. You tired. When are you going to shut up? That’s what I say when I see him on TV. You look old, it’s wearing you down!

	J:	I’m sure he appreciates that.



C:  I look at my brother, and I said, man you getting old! Your hair turning white! You know these people about to run you crazy. What’s wrong with you? Let it go! Tell them I’m out of here.

J:   Well, thank you.



	C:	You’re welcome. You got enough, didn’t you? [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Richard Brust, November 2, 2015 Audit-edited by:	Holland Hall, May 25, 2017

Final edited by:   Ryan Morini, February 23, 2019