AAHP 167; Wright; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 167 Gladys Wright

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Brittany Brown on March 26, 2011 52 minutes | 16 pages



Abstract: Gladys Wright was born and raised between Gainesville, Florida and Rochelle, Florida. She attended Shell High in Hawthorne, and then Lincoln High School in Gainesville. After graduating, she attended Gibbs Junior College and then transferred to Florida A&M University, graduating with a degree in Education and working as an educator for the rest of her professional career. She describes some of her memories and experiences during these periods, and offers reflections on what she perceives as a change in the sense of community in society.





[Keywords: African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Lincoln High School]























































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 167

Interviewee: Gladys Spence Wright Interviewer: Brittany Brown

Date: March 26, 2011



	B:	What is your full name? W:	Gladys Spence Wright.

	B:	Okay and how long have you been living in Gainesville, Florida?



	W:	This is my home. I was born in Gainesville, so I am a native Gainesvillian. My roots, of course, are in Rochelle. That’s where you are today. That is about eight miles east of Gainesville, but I was born in Gainesville and then my mom, dad returned to the home place and this is where I have been.

	B:	So how long as your family been in Gainesville for?



	W:	Rochelle? Well in reality, my mother’s family or history passed down through the family, the theory is that Thomas and Mariah came from Buford, South Carolina separately of course and they landed in a place called Mosspond which is right down the road out from Micanopy. Some people say Mosspond, some people might call it Moespond. Of course they were owned by slave owners and eventually Thomas and Mariah married. When they married, they settled in Rochelle and they started the Bradley settlement and that is approximately three and a half miles out from where you are now. Then my grandmother who was Thomas and Mariah’s daughter, one of the siblings, married Rosenberg and so from there that union was bearing children. Eddie Presley, Willie Presley, Charlie Presley, David Presley, Ruth Presley, Marie Presley, Colleen, and Gladys Presley. Now let me tell you Brittany, Gladys Presley, was my biological mother. She died in childbirth with me. So the person to whom I refer as mama is really my aunt mama, Marie Presley Grisby and her husband Walter Grisby, reared me





as their child because my aunt Marie, mom, convinced my father Joe Spence that your parents are very old, and we’re young, and so he did allow that separation to occur. So I was reared by Marie and Walter. My other siblings were reared by my grandparents.

	B:	Okay, and did you still have contact with your father growing up?



	W:	Oh yes, oh yes. We were never separated in terms of, even though I lived in Gainesville my first five years, my siblings were here in Rochelle, but we were always involved. My mom never kept me from my siblings so we all knew that’s my sister, that’s my brother. So it has always been that way.

	B:	Do you remember attending Lincoln High?



	W:	I went to Lincoln High School from grades nine through twelfth. Let me go back and share with you. Rochelle had its own little school. In fact, just last Sunday afternoon there was Rosenwald Schools were started many years ago and Rochelle had one of those schools. So my first years in school, of course I went to a little daycare private school in Gainesville prior to my five years of age, then when I came to Rochelle I was permitted to go to school with my twin sisters and I sat in their first grade classroom. So grades one through third, Rochelle. Then I went to Hawthorne Shell High School grades fourth through eighth. Then in [19]56 when Shell High School was closed those students attending Shell for High School had to go to Lincoln High School and that’s how I got to Lincoln High School.

	B:	What was the reason that Shell was closed?





	W:	Well, there were two Black schools for high school. Mebane High School in Alachua and Shell High School. Now prior to that these other schools were also closed. Like you had one in Micanopy, you had a school in High Springs. But the two Black high schools in Alachua County were Lincoln High School and Mebane High School. So students from the outlying areas Waldo, Campbell, Orange Heights, Lochloosa, Island Grove, Hawthorne, Rochelle, Windsor, Micanopy, Archer, and Newberry students went to Lincoln High School because that was the only high school for us to attend. And those students from Myakka, Lacrosse, Providence, High Springs, and I really don’t know a lot of the other little towns or cities or communities in that area. Those students went to Mebane High School, but those were the only two Black high schools for us to attend because we were still under the segregated system.

	B:	Wow, and do you remember desegregation and the whole Lincoln High closing down?

	W:	Yes. Lincoln High closed after I graduated but I do recall that time when that school was closed as a high school. The students who were currently enrolled ended up going to Gainesville High School when it closed. That was a sad moment because Lincoln High School was the educational institution for Blacks in our area. Alachua County, this side of the county, and Mebane of course was the high school for those students in the other area. And it was a school that served students as well as their parents in preparing their students for the future so that they would become successful citizens and of course it provided us with an excellent academic focus.





	B:	So do you think with the desegregation and the closing of Lincoln it was a little more harmful to the African American community than it was helpful?

	W:	I think there’s some advantages and I think that there are some areas wherein the advantages are not as productive as they could be because in reality we ended up through segregation being able to, shall I say, receive some opportunities. Instead of used books, you had textbooks that all students utilized. You had some programs that were not necessarily offered at Lincoln High School that were offered at other schools. By the same token, I do feel that there has been a downward slide in terms of students being able to really really excel. I think that over the years some people were not prepared to accept all children as people. Unfortunately sometimes the economic status as well as the color factor have been areas that unfortunately did not always provide those quality services for all students.

	B:	So after Lincoln High what college did you decide to attend?



	W:	Well I attended Gibbs Jr. College for one year and then I went to Florida A&M University in Tallahassee and I graduated from the College of Education. I taught school. I opened Purview Elementary which was one of the three integrated schools that opened in [19]69 in Alachua County. Purview, Glenn Springs, and Rollins Elementary. So they opened as integrated schools in Alachua County. I left and went to Washington, D.C. I taught school in a community controlled school in Washington, D.C. and then I returned home and I rejoined my former principal and former colleagues and I taught at J.J. Finley for fourteen years.

Then I left Finley and went to Shell Elementary School in Hawthorne. First year





as curriculum resource teacher and that following year, 1987, I was promoted principal and I served as principal there for twenty-two years.

	B:	So what inspired you to go into education?



	W:	Growing up I always wanted to teach, so that has always been my passion. I used to play school with my dolls and I would instruct them and I’d teach them how to read, how to spell, and how to write. I have family members who were in education. I saw them, but I had teachers who inspired me and they were role models for me and I thought back then, that I really wanted to do what they were doing, teaching boys and girls to become excellent citizens and to broaden their horizons through education and giving them opportunities to excel.

	B:	Being a teacher in an integrated school system, did you see a difference between the way you were educated when you were young and how your students were being educated?

	W:	Well I think when we opened Purview the mission was to serve students so we had a team. We were taught for team teaching. So for that particular school we knew that all children were children. We did have some issues that we had to work through because parents of the other race were not always accepting of students who were of color. And children did have encounters that were not nice at all. So we had to work through getting students and parents to understand that we’re all human beings. And so after a while, we were able to sort of bridge that gap between the races but there were some turbulent times. In fact, I can recall one of our local churches ended up allowing our Black children to arrive to school on their church bus so they would not be attacked walking to school because





they were coming from the Spring Hill community and they had to walk by a White community. And unfortunately there were negative things that were occurring to our students and so it was Mt. Pleasant United Methodist Church provided their bus for our students so that they would no longer have to endure the pain and agony of trying to get an education.

	B:	Do you yourself remember any struggles with racism?



	W:	Yes. Growing up I had to get a seat at you know, the back of the bus, a city owned transit bus. I had to drink from a fountain at the courthouse downtown that said Black only. Well it wasn’t called Black then it was called colored. Go to the bathroom, be served at the back. So yes I experienced that the same way many of our forefathers did. Not being able to walk in the front door or be served at a dining institution or business because you were not welcomed as a citizen. You were welcome to pay your money as a citizen because money is accepted by all people.

	B:	So as an educator in an elementary school were you experiencing, at the same time as your students were, the same kind of racism as your students?

	W:	Oh yes. It was still going on while I was teaching and while my students were encountering that. Integration started in this district, [19]70s you saw that move, but here again it was not a comprehensive move. It was a gradual move. In this district teachers from your predominantly Black schools, some were placed in your predominantly White schools first and then you had students going to those predominantly White schools. But as I said before, the three schools Purview, Glenn Springs, and Rawlings, opened as integrated schools. Yes, racism was





very prevalent and it’s an unfortunate thing that mankind has not been able to look at people as people and not look at them as a colored person.

	B:	So I noticed that you are a member of Delta Sigma Theta. W:	Yes I am.

	B:	Did you come through the undergrad chapter? W:	No I pledged the alumnae chapter.

	B:	The alumni chapter.



	W:	Yes. At that time we were affiliated with Ocala alumni. And twenty-five years ago we started our chapter here in Gainesville.

	B:	Okay and how was it to be a member of a Black organization at that time?



	W:	Well I think it was fantastic because the mission is service and so we work hard to provide our five point thrust to the community at large. So rendering service, helping people, and that’s our goal, you see. So it has been a fantastic venture, a nice journey over the years impacting in a positive way the welfare, the education of our boys and girls and our people as a whole.

	B:	So being that you’ve lived in this general area for so long, do you feel that the African American community in this area has made progress or do you think that it’s taken a few steps back? Like do you think that with the demise of schools like Lincoln and desegregation do you think the African American community has lost their sense of community or do you think that it’s more progressive to be integrated and separate?

	W:	There has been a decline in some areas because you do not have that wholeness of a community any longer. Also, many of the services that were





provided, that commitment, that union of oneness is not there as a whole. You have some, what I call, pockets of it and you have students who are not taught the history and so young people do not know our Black history and unfortunately many many Black students and Black people are not aware of the contributions that we as a people made to this country. And so there is that lack of knowledge and so young people, the value system has changed. Young parents are not— they say we want our children to be educated, but many of our parents are still young, immature, and lacking in a lot of social skills, educational skills, and most importantly parenting skills and so our children are lost. And unfortunately we’re losing a large population of them. The dropout rate is very high and so, you know, efforts are being made to try and turn that around but it has to be a village to do that because it does take a village.

	B:	With that being said, going back to your educational experiences, what was the highest degree that you achieved in college?

	W:	I have a doctorate. I have an E.D.T. in education administration supervision.



	B:	And how was it going through as an African American obtaining those levels of achievement in education?

	W:	Hard work, self-determination, supportive family, support of strong friends, and former instructors, the encouragement, but the value system was very strong in my family so success was just to be. Education was just to be. You work hard, you achieved, and academic excellence certainly was a priority. I worked after my B.S. Then I went back to school and I got my master’s but I was working while I was getting my master’s. Then I was still working when I got my doctorate.





So it was a struggle, but with that self-determination, you know, I was able to succeed. We were able to have a satellite program, so that made it very convenient for us. A group of us from several counties in Florida met in Gainesville and so our coursework was here in Gainesville and that made it very convenient for us. Of course for the people who had to travel like from Escambia County, Leon County, they had to travel but for those of us who lived in this area it was just a matter of going into Gainesville so that was fine but hard work.

B:  So what are some of the other values that your family instilled in you as a child growing up that you feel helped contribute to your drive for success other than education?

	W:	God first. I come from a religious background. The Bradley’s started our home church, Third Bethel Baptist Church. Having faith in God and believing in each other, family ties, praying together, staying together, and that is still going on now. This, if time permits you, you are more than welcome to peruse it, our seventeenth Bradley family reunion. You know, this is just a little history of our family. This is Thomas Bradley who was the pillar for our family and through that, work ethics. This is our family cemetery. This is our family tree. These are the offsprings of Thomas and Mariah. Phyllis, this is my grandmother. In fact I’d like to show you a photo of her in one of my bedrooms because I have my great grandfather and my grandmother highlighted in my bedroom. That’s the family room that has a lot of the family heirlooms shall I say and these are the branches. So I’m saying this is just as I said, feel free to peruse that, but the strong commitment for family, understanding that God is God with power and





through His son Jesus Christ we were able to have a life and failure was not an option. You continue to strive for success and that has been our goal and we still do that. We’re constantly instilling in our family members, the younger ones, “Listen, you have to succeed in life. You have to work hard. You have to get your education, but remember who is truly the head of your life.” And so that faith has to be there and that’s what we strive to instill in the family members because we want that generational spiral to continue of producing family members that are going to be successful and to be helpful to mankind.

	B:	Who kept the family history up to date and invented the stole and the flags and all of this?

	W:	Well I tell you what, we started the family reunion seventeen years ago primarily because two family members said, “You know we need to stop just coming together on these occasions.” And those occasions were sad occasions.

Someone had died and they would come home to the funeral and so that’s how the family reunion concept had started. And as we progressed through this union of getting together and having fun and reminiscing about the past. Family members, and we have them all over, and they’re creative, very intelligent, and so then our wonderful family members in the Orlando branch decided we need to take it to another level. And so this progressed to, hey, a relative has a friend from Africa and so we had our stoles. We bought them because they are made of genuine authentic African cloth and then hey, knowing the family and its history, that’s when that crest was designed, because it represents what our family really meant. Then the colors, think about it, the green, the white, and the blue. So it





was because of our values and they were put together. And so that’s how this all evolved into. We also have a scholarship fund for our family members because once again, education is very important. So one can say that it’s really more of a family organization to promote unity because our motto is: a family that prays together stays together. And that’s what our family wanted. Thomas and Mariah wanted us to always be a bond so even though we’re spread throughout the United States and abroad, we still come together as a unity. We’re excited. We hosted the family reunion in 2009 and we will be going to Fort Lauderdale in August. But it was just—people like to come home because this is home, Rochelle. Our roots are right here. The history was passed down, what you see here, this was primarily through oral history from older members of the family who had recollection of what had been shared with them.

	B:	Do you think that this family history, and the stole, and the flags, and the crescent, and the values you’re instilling in your younger generations give them an advantage over some African American young people that may not have that family value?

	W:	Oh definitely. You see, family first. God first, family. But in terms of mankind you need a family that is truly together. A family that has a value system of what life is all about: serving God, serving mankind, being kind to each other, helping each other to grow and develop. And so you have to, the older members of the family in my opinion have an obligation to instill those teachings in those younger family members so that without a doubt it will be an ongoing process of developing





good, valuable members in a community and certainly a family that becomes stronger as it becomes bigger.

	B:	So in taking that same concept in older generations investing in the younger generations, do you think that African Americans should invest more in our historically Black institutions and businesses in an effort to revive the African American communities around Florida and across America?

	W:	I think it’s imperative that we embrace our historically Black institutions because once again, that’s history and to let them die you’re losing a part of our history. Young people need to know, and so they need to be in existence so that young people will have an opportunity to explore, expand, and become educated in the knowledge of our people.

	B:	I’m assuming that one of these pictures, your grandmother was in here? W:	Yes Phyllis. That’s Phyllis Bradley Presley.

	B:	Now this is a portrait so I’m assuming that it’s very old. W:	Very very old.

	B:	Did your family obtain this photo from her directly? W:	From the house.

	B:	From her house?



	W:	From the house and my relative and I were able to get Homen’s Photo Company to do a marvelous job of transforming those old old pictures to this. And so I’ll take you in and let you see them hanging on the wall. I had them framed and at our reunion we surprised our family with every family member and all of our guests in attendance at the gala received a copy of this photo history booklet. But





we unveiled the picture of Thomas and Mariah. Our family was not aware of that. That was another historical moment, yes.

	B:	I think that it’s really kind of amazing how your family was able to keep in touch with their history and the photos because a lot of times I know that African American families are missing a lot of their history and family members.

	W:	Um-hm and see what we did, we asked each family branch to please send us pictures. So this is how we were able to compile this. Family members throughout the state and out of state sent us family photos and so we were able to compile this. It became a work in process. A job that we labored long and then we put them together, but it was wonderful. Now this is Oakridge Cemetery, these are the gravesites for Thomas and Mariah.

	B:	Now this is a family owned plot?



	W:	Yes, it’s a cemetery that is owned by the family that many years ago that cemetery I understand was donated to Blacks and so that’s where we, not every family member is buried there, but I’m saying a great portion of our family members from this area are buried there and we still bury there now.

	B:	So is it open now to members outside of your family?



	W:	We take that into consideration. There are some people who are not necessarily Bradley’s and connected to us directly but those who are there are basically connected to one another but basically family members.

	B:	Okay, so now how often do you visit the cemetery? W:	Often.





	B:	Often. Do you also take the family youth out there to visit and see their ancestors?

	W:	Yes they need to know where their roots are and so we do visit, yes. It’s important.

	B:	So the stole, does each member of your family have one?



	W:	Those of us who bought them and many of them were purchased so we proudly wear them, yes.

	B:	So do you have the original? Are you the owner of the original copy of the painting?

	W:	Yes.



	B:	You have it. Are you the eldest member of the family? W:	No.

	B:	You’re just like the historian you keep all of the—? W:	I’m the baby.

	B:	Oh you are?



	W:	There are seven siblings that grew to become adults. I have one brother. I have two sisters who live here in Rochelle. In fact, right across the road is my oldest sister. I have one sister who lives in Jackson, Mississippi. I have a brother who lives in Norwalk, Connecticut and I have a sister who resides in Tipton, Georgia. But I’m the baby. I’m the youngest of the family. Now I’m going to tell you something that is very interesting and very very nice. There were four sets of twins in my family. They’re deceased. Six of those siblings died during their early years of life. Seven of us grew to adulthood. My oldest brother’s now deceased





so that leaves the remaining of us who are here. Everybody is a productive citizen. My sister in Jackson, Mississippi is the director of the PhD program in the school of social work and that’s Dr. Susie. And Spence, across the road from me, is Rosa Rollins who graduated from FAMU also, with a specialist from UF and she is also, we’re waiting now to get ready for a May graduation. Her daughter is getting her master’s and then her granddaughter is graduating from one of the local high schools that is similar to the IB program here in Gainesville at Eastside. My sister Phyllis is a long time employee of this district but she is known as Mrs. Duvall. She has been there for over forty plus years serving in various capacities: secretary, home school liaison, and senior clerical assistant.

My brother in Norwalk, Connecticut is a supervisor in the postal service there and in real estate, my sister is retired across the road. And my other sister is also retired but received training in radiology as a technician. So, academic excellence was a major part of the family. Work hard, achieve high, aim high, and that has been a goal, and so when I talk about the family we’re talking about family members who have excelled in all areas. I tell people anywhere I go if I need the doctor I can call on the doctor. If I need the attorney I can call on the attorney. If I need the educator I can call on the educator. But also the other areas that have opened up and education affords you those opportunities to reach for higher goals and achieve those high goals. But keeping in mind humble is the way and never forgetting who you are and from where you came and believe in helping others to achieve. You see, no man is an island. No man stands alone. You have to employ togetherness.





	B:	So on that note, I think we should be wrapping up the interview, but since this is a recording and if you so choose for it to be released it is intended for future generations. Is there anything that you would like to say to the future generations of African American youth that may come in contact with this interview and may want to hear your voice or hear somebody, an elder from the past speaking to them?

	W:	I would say to all young people remember to allow God to be a part of your life and understand that through His son Jesus Christ we’re able to connect with Him. So that’s the first top priority and then keep in mind that family is important. Treasure every moment, obey your parents, and take on a value system that is going to be pleasing in the sight of God, in the sight of mankind so that you will become the educated person so that you can explore, expand, and experience wonderful opportunities. And remember to help someone else along the way to achieve that academic excellence, and never allow the mind to focus on negativism that is destructive. Because life is worth living but you have to work hard, because unfortunately at this time there are so many negative things out there and people who engage in negative things that are alluring in people. So you have to stay steadfast and hold onto God’s unchanging hand and keep that link between your family a wholesome and cherished moment, because without a loving family you’re losing a vital part of life. Education is a key that can unlock doors for great opportunities. So the challenge is succeed in life, work hard, apply yourself in school, and you will achieve and keep a determined mind that I can and I will. And I say to you, you will achieve it.





	B:	Thank you for your time. I appreciate it and I’m going to stop recording now. W:	Okay.

[End of Interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, November 13, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 20, 2019