AAHP 046A; Mickle; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 046A Evelyn Marie Moore Mickle African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Jason Horton on June 4, 2009 1 hour, 48 minutes | 44 pages



Abstract: Evelyn Marie Moore Mickle grew up in Live Oak, FL, and she describes the experience of growing up there during the Jim Crow era. She also describes some of her family history, growing up on a farm with a father who was a pastor and also served as NAACP president for several years. She describes both of her parents as people and in terms of their parenting philosophy. Mrs. Mickle also relates the story of how she ended up attending the University of Florida, and what her experiences were in becoming the first African American graduate of the UF College of Nursing—as well as the effect that those experiences have had on her life since. She closes by discussing the inauguration of Barack Obama and the meaning that it held for her mother and the rest of her family.





Keywords: [African American History; Suwannee County, Florida; Alachua County, Florida; University of Florida; Integration]









































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 046A

Interviewee: Evelyn Marie Moore Mickle Interviewer: Jason Horton

Date: June 4, 2009



	H:	This is Jason Horton interviewing Evelyn Marie Mickle. M:	You need to say “Moore.”

	H:	Evelyn Marie Moore Mickle. Sorry. Mrs. Marie Moore Mickle, do you agree to this interview, you consent?

	M:	Yes, I agree.



	H:	Where and when were you born?



	M:	[Laughter] I was born in—well actually, I was born in Wellborn, Florida and Live Oak is the county seat—that’s Live Oak, Florida, and the county is Suwannee County. That’s about, maybe, seventy-five to eighty miles northwest of Gainesville. And I was born September 18th, 1945.

	H:	What was Live Oak like?



	M:	What was Live Oak like? Live Oak was, just as its name is, has lots of big, big huge oaks. But we lived out in the country, out in Wellborn. And actually, in a little community, a settlement called Lake Butler. I had cousins and what have you, and so I rode the school bus to school. But I can even remember going to the community school before the schools consolidated in 1955, [19]56. And then I went to school in O’Brien, which is still in Suwannee County, and then later transferred to Douglass High School in Live Oak. As you might imagine, that each time we went to Live Oak, we had to travel. So, what was Live Oak like?

Live Oak was segregated, all-Black high school. I mean, things were segregated. And I do remember that, at the time that I was growing up, Blacks were not allowed to eat at the restaurants in Live Oak. And if you went to a refreshment





counter in the drug store, you had to go to the end of the counter to get your ice cream, or your float, or whatever. The movie theaters: Blacks went upstairs, Whites went downstairs. So, essentially, it was a segregated community. Now, what I want to say about the schools, though, is that, like most predominantly Black schools, the school and the church was the center of the community. And teachers really—the school was your extended family. The teachers knew your parents, your parents knew the teachers. And there was great respect for the teachers. Great respect and admiration, because they took a very active role in a child’s life. They felt it their responsibility to really prepare those students for citizenship. So I have to tell you that I have some very fond memories of many of my teachers, because they took a personal interest in my nurturing and my grooming. I can’t say that I had an unhappy childhood, because we lived on a farm. And essentially, I was a girl between five boys. And so, I learned to be tough; I learned the meaning of real work; and I learned to appreciate free time. Having grown up on a farm, my father was a minister and pastor. He drove the school bus, and he farmed. There was always something for us to do. My mother always had a garden. We had truck crops to supplement income. You name it and I’ve done it. I don’t come to this interview pretending that I don’t have humble beginnings, because my beginnings are very humble. I’m very grateful for that, because I know that it prepared me for coming to the University of Florida. I think also, one of the things that I can say about Live Oak is that freedom, or equality, or the privilege of going to—of integration—didn’t come without a tremendous price. Suwannee County was known for lynchings. As a matter of fact, my father





was the NAACP president for several years. And I remember before he became President, the current president’s home was bombed—the front porch, that is.

They burned a cross and threw stuff in the yard, and what have you. So, he left. He and his family left and went to Fort Lauderdale. And shortly after that, my father became president of the NAACP. So, I’m just very grateful that we lived through all this, because really and truly, we could have been targets as well.

Growing up in Suwannee County, we went to church on Sunday, we went to school five days a week, and when we came home from school, we got undressed and we went to the fields. There were times, though, that the girls— the roles of the women, of the women in the family, were well defined, and the role of the boys or the young men were well defined.

	H:	Like what?



	M:	Well, the girls in my family—there were six girls. There were nine boys. And essentially, my brothers did not do the washing and the cooking. The washing, and the cooking, and the cleaning of the house essentially was the girls’ responsibility. The boys went to the fields to help my father with the heavy work. That’s pretty much what I want to say. We took care of the children. Now, there was field work for the women, but there were certain things that the women just did not do. We didn’t drive the tractor, or plow with the mule or anything like that, or hang—well, some women did, but that was not essentially their role. And so, the roles were defined.

	H:	So, what were your parents like?





	M:	Well, my father and my mother both wanted the best for their children. My parents were married for fifty years, almost fifty-one years before my father passed. Very, very religious. As I told you, my father was a pastor. Essentially, he believed that your word was your bond. If you give someone your word, you need to stick by that. My mother did not work outside the home. My mother, essentially, was a homemaker, and managed the children, and did what my father needed for her to do as a support. One of the main reasons why he didn’t allow her to work outside of the home is because he never wanted anyone, especially the White men, to give her any orders. Because he didn’t want to— that was a battle he chose his way of fighting. And so, even when we worked out doing odd jobs for White families, if there was a problem, my father had an agreement with the man of the house that if there was a problem with one of his children, that they would come to him, and not discipline his children. He was very clear about that, and very strong about that. And so, I felt protected. Not only did I feel protected by my dad, but I had nine brothers, so I definitely felt protected! [Laughter] Not only did I feel protected, but I also felt ruled, because you didn’t get to do a lot of the things that you probably could’ve gotten away with if you didn’t have all these brothers. My parents loved education, even though my father only went to the sixth grade, and my mother only went to the sixth grade. I remember that when my father drove the school bus, at that time, during the winter months, when the farm wasn’t in full bloom, or when there was downtime for the farming, he would sit in the classroom and learn with the rest of the students. There were teachers who would allow that. Well, this one particular





teacher had been the night teacher out in our community. They did provide night school for adults. And so, once the schools were consolidated, night school was no longer offered. So he had time, and that was an open opportunity. So he learned. And he availed himself of other learning opportunities when there were workshops and what have you that was presented by our church’s convention or association. I went. They went. I went because they were going, and Momma didn’t leave me home. I was a girl between five boys. And so, she took me and the younger two girls with her. So, when I tell you that there were roles that were very defined, those are some of the things that I can tell you. My mother, after turning eighty, went back to adult school so that she could get her GED. Now, she didn’t make it through getting her GED, but she just never stopped learning. So, they knew that education was the key to getting out of some of the bondage, and, well, a way to prepare for the next generation. And so, I can truthfully say that, as my mother and sister, that we got our homework, that they were doing theirs as well.

	H:	You talked about fond memories of your teachers. Do you have any specific memories?

	M:	Yes, one of my teachers, Mrs. Louise Hall, her husband was the mortician. She was a Bethune-Cookman graduate. She came to teach out in the community where we lived. And this was her first job. I remember that there were only about fifteen of us that were in school, and all of us were cousins. For the Homecoming parade at Douglass in Live Oak, she packed us all in her car, and took us to Live Oak for the parade. But what’s even more impressed upon my memory is that a





lot of weekends I would go home with her, and I would spend the weekend with her. So, my parents allowed me to have exposure to a better way of life, if you could say that, which encouraged me to want to go to school. Once I graduated from high school, I knew that there was really nothing in Live Oak that could hold me or keep me from going to school. So, that’s one of the fond memories of teachers. I mean, she just believed in me, and she—I think this was commonplace for teachers, for their students. They knew which students were going to excel and go on. And so, the ones that they felt that would excel and go on, they pushed them. The other ones, they encouraged them to prepare as best as they could, so that they could find a job and become self-supporting. Mrs.

Larsie Jackson was my first teacher, and I had her from about age four, because the teachers then would let you come to school before kindergarten or first grade. And Ms. Larsie Jackson was—she had a home out in another community that was near ours, but she also had a home in Orlando. And so, my very first trip away from home was with her to Orlando. That was not uncommon. I spent lots of nights with her and her family. Several times, she took me to Orlando with her. They loved us, and we loved them. Some of our teachers, we became so attached, like Ms. Jackson, that oftentimes I would find myself saying “Momma.” But you know, but that was just the kind of love that you felt because of their caring and nurturing. Some of my high school teachers—Ms. Sarah Roberson was the math teacher. Ms. Sara Roberson was tough, but let me just tell you that in her toughness, she knew that she needed to prepare—I mean, her job was to prepare you, and that’s exactly what you were going to get if you yielded





to her. Oh, many of my teachers, I have very fond memories. I have some that I don’t have such fond memories of, but I think basically the reason why my memories are not fond of them would be that, when you are intellectually somewhat bright, you need to be challenged. Because if you don’t, you going to talk, and you’re going to get into a little bit of trouble. And you’ll be running the class if you don’t have control. I don’t have very many of those memories, because that was just not something that happened a lot. I know there’s another teacher I need to tell you about, and I just can’t think of who it is right now, but anyway, if I come back to it, that would be all right. That would be ok. Mrs. Curry! Chestine Curry. Now, she was one that—she didn’t play the radio. No, she didn’t play the radio. But I know if she whipped her own daughter, you could know that you going to get it from her. But what I love about her is that she did not show partiality. She didn’t show partiality. What she dished out for one, she dished out for all. And when she did that for her daughter, I knew that if my number ever came up, I was going get it. But I loved to talk, and so, I did. I did get a few spankings. My mother will tell you that. [Laughter] I did get a few spankings. But Mrs. Curry really was the one that created a real love for reading. And that’s what I really appreciate. And I spent some time with—now, if my parents respected you; they were very selective about who their children spent time with. I couldn’t spend a lot of time with some of my cousins, because they weren’t going anywhere, and they weren’t going to do anything. I mean, when I say that: they were going to try to get through high school, but college was not their goal. And so, Momma did not let us hang around too much. As I look back over that, I





understand that. I understood it then. I understood it then. So, I would have to say that my parents were strict, but here’s what they taught us: that you are as good as anybody, but you’re not better than. You’re as good as anybody, but you’re not better than. So, you don’t look down your nose at anyone. People are not going to like you for a lot of different reasons, but you have to know who you are and who you belong to. My parents were very generous in terms of—you would think that we would not have had anything to give, but as farmers, we were always giving. And we provided, many times, all the vegetables and things for almost the entire community. Whenever they went to town, quote-unquote, to town, usually there was a truckload of stuff to go and share with other persons. I always asked my momma, “Momma, why you plant all this stuff and we have to gather it? Why can’t these people come and pick they own?” She said, you know, “Marie, what I think you need to do is you need to go on out there and do what I told you to do. And you let me worry about that. Now, if you got a problem with that, I think I can help you with that.” And my momma didn’t play the radio. My mother is ninety-four. She’s still living. She’s still living. She lives with my sister next door to me here in Gainesville, and we take care of her. She’s in a wheelchair, so she requires continuous care, but she can still— [Laughter] She can still rule. But I thank God for her.

	H:	Oh, absolutely.



	M:	Absolutely, I thank God for her.



	H:	Was UF your first experience with integration, or integrated education?





	M:	An integrated environment? Yes. You mean an integrated educational environment?

	H:	Education, yes.



	M:	Yes. When I graduated from high school, I really wanted to go to Howard. I didn’t have the money. I was accepted. I was also accepted at Bethune Cookman and FAMU. Now, you would have to realize that there was an application fee. First of all, I didn’t even have the money to pay the application fees, so my sister Eloise, Cody’s mother, paid my application fees. And so, I had to be selective about how many schools I was going to send my application to, especially knowing I wasn’t going to get any money. As things turned out, my sister Eloise and her husband, Cody, Cody’s father, got jobs in Marion County. When they moved to Marion County, there was a community college called Hampton Junior College. And so, I went to live with them and went to junior college there. At the end of my second year, upon graduation—just before graduation—the president, President Jackson, called several of us into his office, and said that he had had a request from the University of Florida for students that he felt would excel at the University of Florida. He said, “Ms. Moore, I’m recommending you for the College of Nursing. You still want to go to nursing school?” I said, “Yes.” Because I had applied to Tuskegee at that time. And Tuskegee had accepted me, but I really didn’t know whether I could make it at Tuskegee, financially. And so, this door opened, and the College of Nursing at the University of Florida invited me to come over for an interview. Two of the other students, both young men, both majoring in Biology, came that day as well. I had my interview with the College of





Nursing, Dean Smith and Dean Knowles—who was the assistant dean—and I was accepted. Now, I was the first Black nursing student to be extended an invitation, and to be accepted. Now, the records probably, the records of the newspaper doesn’t show that, but if the college had good recordkeeping, they would validate that. And so I accepted, because—and then, another friend of mine came from Hampton. Name was Bertha Williams. As it ended up, there were five of us who entered that September from Hampton Junior College. So, I felt like I had a support system. Bertha and I roomed together on 3rd Avenue with a gentleman named Alex Tomblin. That’s where we were sent. They wouldn’t give us housing on campus. Now, that doesn’t mean that others hadn’t had housing, because when those first seven entered, two of the students did get housing. And so, I’m sure that other students had stayed on campus. Anyway, Bertha knew this gentleman. He had an extra room and an area on the back of his home, which was very nice. He had just remodeled. So, we lived with him. I was okay with that, because it was two of us. And he worked at the hospital; he was an orderly. Anyway, we came, and at the end of the first trimester, the other four were out of here. Well, they were on probation, and some just didn’t make it. So, the two gentlemen were on probation, and they decided that, “Looky here: I have never been in this position before, I’ve always been at the top of my class. And so, we going to Bethune-Cookman.” So, they left and they both went to Bethune-Cookman. That was two. Then Bertha was the third one, and I was the fourth one. And the other one never came. So, it was just four of us. So you see, the number was starting to dwindle before we ever got started. And so, here I





was. But there was another young lady who came from Gibbs Junior College, Betty Keith. She and I roomed together for a short while the second trimester. I think she left in the middle of the trimester, so I don’t think she finished out that trimester. She was in nursing too. And then, there was a student from Pompano. She was married, so she was travelling back and forth, because she had a family of three children and a husband. She didn’t spend much time with me or with the other students, because I just think she had a lot on her mind, and she just basically was a person that kept to herself. And Neil Butler was married. And matter of fact, he was married for the second time, and was an expecting father. But he was already an LPN, and his wife was an LPN. And so, that didn’t give me a support system. So anyway, yeah, this was my first experience with an integrated situation. Now, you have to remember I came in 1965. And so, the first students to enter the University of Florida as undergraduates was in 1962. So, it wasn’t but a handful of us here.

	H:	Did you find camaraderie with the African Americans that were on campus?



	M:	Very little, because we were so spread out, and all of my business was down the hill at the Med School. The J. Hillis Miller Health Center.

	H:	What is an LPN?



	M:	An LPN is a Licensed Practical Nurse. Okay, a licensed practical nurse requires one year or 18 months of training. And so, it’s the level between a nursing assistant and a registered nurse. But they can give medications to patients.





	H:	Recently, during the March 17th event—Barack Obama, where we stand now— you said that you used to not tell people that you graduated from the University of Florida. Can you tell me why?

	M:	I didn’t tell people I graduated from University of Florida because—probably it will help you to understand that, first of all, a lot of Black people might not have even—they might have known about the University of Florida, but that was a foreign and a far-fetched idea. It was one of those things that, the memories of the University of Florida, my experience here, was very, very traumatic, at times. And so, I wasn’t ranting and raving. I mean, I didn’t have the same kind of joy and pride when I said I had graduated from the University of Florida as a student from FAMU or Bethune Cookman. See, when I spent time on Florida A&M’s campus, I felt so much pride just being able to go up there and visit my sisters at college, or my high school drama club went to present in a play, or what have you. It just felt like home. It just felt like a place where I belonged. At the University of Florida, I did not feel—I didn’t have a feeling of belonging. That’s why. You know, you just don’t dredge up stuff and talk about stuff that you don’t feel good about. I had been asked to leave the University of Florida College of Nursing. First of all, I had the experience of fainting in one of my classes. When I fainted, I was sent to the infirmary. The infirmary sent me down the hill to a neurologist to check it out, to see if I had seizures. Well they end up with a diagnosis saying that I had the little seizures, petit mal seizures. So they put me on Dexedrine in—this was my third trimester, which would have been the beginning of my second year here. And I was taking Med Surg. And so, they put





me on Dexedrine, which is an upper, in the morning and Phenobarbital, which is a sedative for the brain, at night. And so, I was a mess. I couldn’t stay awake, and then in the daytime I was just jittery. It was very trying for me, but I didn’t have anybody to advocate for me. I didn’t have anybody I really could counsel with or talk to, because they didn’t have—I mean, I didn’t have an advisor. Now, the White students may have had advisors, but I didn’t have an advisor. So, one day, one of the graduate nursing instructors had an opportunity to fill in for one of the undergrad instructors. She saw my state. I mean, she just was able to look at me and see that something wasn’t right. And so, she asked me to stay over. And I did. So, you can see this is still very emotional and very painful for me— because I didn’t have seizures! But yet, I was treated for seizures. They could have easily put me on Valium, or Librium, one of the anti-anxiety medications; or they could have sent me to counseling. They didn’t need to do that to me, and so the Med Surg instructor—they asked me what was going on, so that I would be able to tell her, as opposed to her telling me. Because I was the talk around the—we were the talk in the College of Nursing. I know that. I have no doubt about it. And so, when I told her, she told me, “Don’t take any more of that medication. What in the hell are they trying to do to you?” And so, she said, “I will take care of this.” That’s exactly her words. She said, “I will take care of this.” Now. Shortly after that, I was called in by the dean, Dean Smith, and the assistant dean was there. And they invited me—or, they gave me an opportunity to withdraw, and invited me to go to FAMU. Well you have to understand this: at the time, FAMU was not accredited. They had lost their nursing accreditation.





They couched this way: they said, “We feel that you would probably do better in an environment where there are more like you.” Not one time did they offer me any tutoring. Not one time did they offer me—all the faculty that’s there, not one time did they say, “Evelyn, we’re going to assign you to Mrs. Doe. And Instructor Doe is going to be there for you. If you need anything, or if you feeling like you need additional help or what have you, you can go to her.” Not one time! But they did invite me to go someplace else to finish my education. Now, I didn’t invite myself to the University of Florida. I was extended an invitation. Now, the same people who extended me an invitation also extended me an invitation to leave.

And so, I talked with my mother about it when I went home on break. My mother said this: she said, “Marie did you fail?” I said, “No ma’am.” My dad said, “Well she keeps crying, and you know she got sick.” And Momma said, “She didn’t fail. What did you go down there for?” I said, “I went to get a nursing education.” She said, “Well, what’s back here for you?” I said, “Nothing, Momma.” She said, “Well, you can’t come home. You can’t come home because there’s nothing here for you. Now, I'm going tell you: I'm going to pray for you. Your daddy and I are going to plant all this acreage here in corn, and we going to get some additional money. We going to ask God to just bless you. And you keep going to church, and you keep praying, and you keep doing your best.” And she said, “That’s all we can offer to you right now. But you can’t come home. Didn’t you go down there to get an education?” Well, the reason why she could say that to me was because my youngest sister was at Suwannee Middle School, integrating Suwannee Middle School at the time. And my brother, being a senior in high





school, he could make a choice because he could drive. He decided that he wasn’t going to integrate the high school. He went a few days, but he said “I'm not taking this.” So he drove to Lake City, and then joined the Army. But women don’t always have the same options that men have. I mean, let’s just face it: we know that. [Laughter] We know that. So anyway, it was a traumatic experience. And it’s still painful. But I do have to say this: that my Med Surg instructor was going through changes, herself. And she was a very compassionate person. She needed to be compassionate. Her husband had a brain tumor. So she wasn’t really there a lot for her students, because she needed somebody to be there for her. So this Med Surg graduate instructor stepped up and stepped in. Now, she couldn’t do for me, perhaps, what I needed to have done, but she recognized that I was on the wrong medication, and that what I needed was not to be sedated and then given a upper to keep me going during the day. And so, she made a decision to protect me. Another experience that I had, and this is just something that stand out in my mind: talking when I tell you about, it wasn’t something I wanted to share? Yes, when I would apply for a job? Yes, I put “University of Florida College of Nursing,” and that was my degree. But I would just sit quietly. Most people didn’t even know I had a degree. It was not anything I wanted to announce. We had no graduation ceremony. We didn’t even have a pinning ceremony the summer when I graduated. And I have been back to talk to two of the instructors that were there at the time, one a graduate instructor, and one a Skills instructor—but I didn’t have her for my Skills. I had somebody else, you know, alphabetically; that’s how we got into our various groups. In celebrating the





fiftieth anniversary of the College of Nursing, she could not find anything during that year. Almost couldn’t find the pictures! So I said to myself, I said, “You know what? This might have something to do with me.” It just might have something to do with me. I’m not so naïve as to think that it didn’t have something to do with me. Why could she find everything else, but couldn’t find anything about me?

And after I graduated, and I took the Nursing Boards, you know what section of the nursing boards I failed? Med Surg! So that tells you I wasn’t dumb. I wasn’t stupid. But a period of time out of my life was blocked with Phenobarbitol and Dexedrine. But my Psychiatric Nursing instructor—and I worked psych the first year I got out of school. I had a really good experience in psych because of my instructor. I think, also, that probably is my passion. I have a passion for people who are challenged in that way. And so, she told me, she said, “Evelyn, you are not stupid. You’re not dumb. How else would you have gotten—?” She said, “Nobody else I know could have made it through like you have done, and still be holding up your head. So I’m going to help you. I’m going to counsel with you.

You going to study, and I’m just going to encourage you. And when you back to take that section or that portion of the Boards again, you’re going to pass it.” Sure enough, I did. I only failed by two points! So that tells you that—or, that should say to anybody who’s listening to my story that, had I not had that experience, there would’ve been nothing. I mean, I would have passed all my Boards. But let me tell you what happened after I didn’t pass my Boards: I was called in again— I’m already out of school, now—by the dean and the assistant dean to lambaste me, to tell me what an embarrassment I was to the College of Nursing. I was





working at Shands, remember? I’m working in the psych unit at Shands. I said, “Well, lo and behold! Are y’all not satisfied that you didn’t get me out? And now you want to say that I’m an embarrassment?” Again, they did not offer any assistance for me taking the Boards the next time. No. That was not their aim. That was not their aim. That’s just a couple of the experiences I had. And you probably don’t want to write down the rest of them, and we don’t have all day to talk.

	H:	Anything you want to share is welcome.



	M:	I had, one of my Pediatric instructors—and I shared this during the September— when they brought George Starke, and I was on a panel. I shared this on the panel there, the panel that spoke in the library, same library. Well, in nursing, you work in pairs or teams as students. One of the things you have to do is you have to get your assignment, and once you get your assignment you have to identify all of the things that you’re going to need to take care of that particular patient.

And so, there were two of us working together. And as we met in the conference room for our conference that morning, an even number of us—I think there was probably eight of us. Each one of us had a partner. We had to go to the cart to get the things that we needed to take care of the patient. We had to do our medication evaluations, and what medicines that they were on, and what other procedures need to be done, or if they were going somewhere to or fro, what have you. I had gone to the cart with my partner, and we had gotten what we decided that we needed. Well, we didn’t get everything that we needed, but what we needed was not my responsibility. It was her responsibility. But our instructor





sent me back to the cart. Now, this my second trip back to the cart. So, I willingly get up and go to the cart. I wasn’t defiant, or rebellious, or disobedient. I just got up and went to the cart, and got what she needed. She followed behind me. But I went to get it, okay? So when I came back, when the two of us came back, the instructor was getting ready to let the students evaluate us, because we evaluated each other. We needed something else—or at least, they were saying that we needed something else. And so, she was getting ready to send me again. I looked at her and I said, “Listen, if you need anything else, you better tell me now, because I’m not going back again. Because I got everything I needed the first time I went to the cart. This was her assignment, and you sent me one time, and now you sending me a second time? I’m not going back. So, tell me now what you need, because I’m not going back.” Well you know I got a C, don’t you? She couldn’t flunk me, but she C’d me. I had an occasion where a patient, when he found out that I was African American—and I had a partner again. He said, “No nigger is going to give me a bath.” I looked at my partner. She looked at me; she was shaking. I wasn’t scared. You know why I wasn’t scared? I dealt with White folks all my life. I worked for them. So I said, “This ain’t none of my problem. This the teacher’s problem.” We stepped out. I said, “Let’s go out here where the teacher is.” She said, “What we going do?” I said, “We going tell her what he said.” We told her what he said. She gave us another patient. She said, “That’s all right. We’ll give you another patient.” And by noontime, that patient was gone. That was not my problem. But, those are the kind of things I had to encounter. When I took Public Health Nursing, I was given three cases that the





public health nurses who were hired, already licensed, and on the job could not get to respond. Three cases that the nursing students the previous year had not gotten those families to respond. They gave them all three to me; all three of them. Now, I imagine there were other noncompliant families, but I had three non-compliant cases, all right? I did not have transportation, so my brother fixed me a bicycle and brought it to me. I had a roommate who had a car. I had a restricted license. I didn’t even have a driver’s license. To one, I walked. The other one, I rode the bicycle. The other one was out there on Archer Road, near

75th and Arredondo. One was a family of fifteen that had tuberculosis—or needed to be tested for tuberculosis, because there were two active tubercular situations: one was a teen pregnant mom over near Mt. Pleasant, near 8th Avenue where Chestnut Funeral Home is. So that one, I walked to, but I could walk because I lived right there at the College of Education. So, I could walk out there. The other one was way out on 25th Street and NE 8th Avenue. That was a toxemic mother who was pregnant—who was hypertensive, I should say that. And she already had three children, but she wouldn’t comply with getting her prenatal care. They all needed to come down to Alachua General. You know where Alachua General is?

	H:	No.



	M:	You don’t know where the hospital is?



	H:	It’s not Shands? If it’s not Shands, I don’t know where it is. M:	Well Shands is AGH. Okay, you know where Tigert is.

	H:	Yeah.





	M:	Okay, that’s 2nd Avenue. You go three blocks. The hospital is on the right. Okay, so that’s where they needed to come. All three of my families were compliant.

Those fifteen people in that family came and got their skin test and their x-rays and what have you. That young lady came in and started getting prenatal care in her seventh month. While I was in Public Health, she continued. And she was in her ninth month when I finished. So, I don’t know what happened with the baby and everything. But the baby was born, she was fine. And this mother came in and started getting her prenatal care while I was there. You know what I got? A

C. I was so upset! I was so upset! That was not theory; that was the practical. My goals were to get those families in to get their care. I wrote the plan. I took care of the plan. I should have gotten an A. I should have gotten five As! I got a C. That was my last semester. I told them, “I know you all have tried to break me, but I’m going to get my degree, and its mine! I may not march, and there may not be no pinning ceremony, but this is my degree. I’ve earned this. And I've done things that you would not have asked another student to do, just because I’m Black.” But yeah, those are just some of the situations. I didn’t really get a friend until I was well into my—well see, I entered my junior year, but that would mean that I’d already been here a year and a half. And I only stayed two years because I took the summer as well. So I needed six terms, trimesters. And so it wasn’t really until my fourth trimester that I got a friend, who happened to be a Jewish girl from Miami. Her name was Gila Lehrman. Gila and I became friends. And after we became friends, some of the other students began to feel that it was all right to spend a little time with me. But I had no friends. And Gainesville was not





a place that I ever wanted to come, because I didn’t know nothing about Gainesville. The only time I’d ever been through Gainesville was on a Greyhound bus. The bus stopped at the Greyhound bus station, but I didn’t know anything about Gainesville, because Gainesville was not the way for African Americans to go. I was on my way to Tallahassee, if I was going to go to a school or something. And I wasn’t going to Bethune-Cookman because I didn’t know anybody who was going to Bethune-Cookman. My brother went to Bethune- Cookman his first year—my second-oldest brother, right out of the Korean War— but he transferred to FAMU. So our mindset is going toward Tallahassee. So, I didn’t know anything about Gainesville. And when I came to Gainesville, I only knew one other family, and maybe a couple of families here, but I didn’t really know them. You know, I’d just met them because of association with Cody— Cody’s father and mother. And so, I really didn’t have a support system in Gainesville. I either had to go with what I knew, which was join a church, and let that church family be my family, if I was going to stay. Momma said I couldn’t come home! I believed what she said. I couldn’t come home! [Laughter] Where else was I going? Country girl, farm girl. Where else was I going? I wanted to become a nurse. What made me want to go into nursing was—and I’m sure you going to ask this question, “Why did I become a nurse?” Another situation just like I’m telling you about. My brother that’s under me got sick over the summer, and the first two or three weeks back into school, he had a sports injury. Injured his leg. His leg began to swell, and he really got a high fever and just really got sick. My parents had to take him to the doctor. Took him to Live Oak. Now, you





know, what was Live Oak like? Took him to Live Oak to the doctor, and the doctor said that it was just a sprain. Well, they brought him home, and ended up two or three days later having to take him back. It wasn’t just a sprain; it was more involved. Because whatever was going on was going throughout his body. So, they admitted him to the hospital in Live Oak. Now, mind you, I’ve been visiting the hospital in Live Oak because my father’s a pastor. If he had members that were in the hospital, we went to the hospital to see them. I knew that the hospital was segregated, and that only a nursing assistant was down there to take care of the Black people, the Colored people. But I had met—there was this one registered nurse who trained at the program in Jacksonville, at Baldon- Haven, and she was a diploma graduate. But my, was she very attractive! And I just loved the fact that—I mean, I just admired her. I don’t remember a lot of people’ names, but I can remember her name. Her name was Elzetta Abram.

So, I wanted to be a—I mean, that’s what I thought I wanted to be, was a nurse. But this is what really solidified it in my mind: it was when my brother was sick. You had to be fifteen, by this time, to visit at the hospital. Otherwise, you had to stay in the waiting room. Oh, yeah. Y’all latecomers, there wasn’t all this everybody can go to the hospital. You did not go to the hospital and you did not visit a patient unless you were fifteen years of age. So, my sister Eloise and Cody were teaching in Jasper. I was in school in Live Oak. So, I would walk to the hospital after school and stay with my brother until my parents could come. My father was a school bus driver, remember? Until my mother could take the truck and go home, and get him and come back after he’d finished with the bus.





And we lived on a farm, so somebody had to stay there with him—needed to be with him. And so, it was my designation. I got to go and be with him. And I saw how Black people were treated. I said to myself, “You know what? This is really what you supposed to be doing.” So, I started thinking about that. The last Black nurse I saw was Elzetta Abram, in this hospital. She didn’t stay very long because they were not very kind to her. I said, “Now I ain't planning to work in Live Oak. No, no, no, no, I ain’t fixing to come back to work in Live Oak! No, I’m not going to come back and do that. But I’m going somewhere that I can make a difference.” Well, what happened? Kelvin was in the hospital for one week.

During that time that he was in the hospital, I kept seeing him get sicker and sicker. The doctor came if he wanted to. So my parents asked if he could be transferred to the hospital in Gainesville. He said no! So my sister and her husband talked with my parents about it, and they said, “When can we talk to the doctor? The four of us need to talk to the doctor.” They stayed around until he came. They talked to him, and he said no again. And so, you know what they said to him? Said, “Listen: this is our family. This is our loved one. If you don’t release him, we’re going to pick him up, and we’re going to take him.” They released him the next day. So I had an opportunity to come to Shands to the hospital to see my brother. As a result of a lack of care and the refusal to release him, he ended up having to have a plate, but he lost a bone in one of his legs.

And he had to be put on the most potent of antibiotics that were out at that time. Those shots cost like fifty dollars a shot. We ain’t have no money, but my parents signed saying that they would be responsible even if they had to sell the





property. We did have property. And so, then children’s services picked him up, and they ended up paying it. But he ended up spending from September to December in a hospital rehabilitation setting as a result of that. And I just think it was destined. It was preordained for me to be a part of that experience, and to come and to see my brother come from death to life. And I’m telling you, I was with him. I might have been fifteen, but I understood. I could see a lot that was going on. I think that is really what solidified my going into nursing, and made me not change my mind or turn around from my goals. I did not want to be a teacher. I am a good teacher, but I did not want to be a teacher. So, I ended up going into nursing. Nobody else in my family had been in nursing. I hadn’t had nurses as mentors. I had not. Only Elzetta Abram had I seen, and I just admired her. And I despised the way they treated her because she was a registered nurse in Live Oak. So, that’s how I got my—that’s really what turned the clock for me to go into nursing.

	H:	So what does it mean to you to be so actively involved in the fiftieth anniversary here in Gainesville, of the integration?

	M:	I said that night on March 17th, I said that it brought a great deal of closure and healing, and something that I felt I was cheated of. And so, I really have been able to do some self-evaluation as to whether or not it was worth it. I think any goal that you put your mind to is worth it. My battles over my lifetime have not been easy battles, but I think that because they have not been easy, and because I’m not a quitter, it’s a core component of who I am. And I believe that any good nurse is not a quitter, and it’s a core part of who he or she is. Because





a nurse is nothing but an advocate for someone who can’t do for themselves. Perhaps I didn’t get a chance to participate in a graduation ceremony. And perhaps I didn’t have a pinning ceremony, like most schools of nursing do. But nonetheless, it doesn’t make me any less or a nurse, or any less of an individual, or have less of a heart. If anything, I think it makes me have more. Now I don’t like it because I was cheated out of those things, but I also know that some other students had to suffer with me, because they didn’t get to do it. So, it’s a good feeling to know that the University of Florida recognizes that this was a time in the life of this school, and the life of history, that fellow citizens—although a different color—had to suffer many things in order for you to be able to sit here and interview me. And I’m grateful for that. And I’m very grateful for the students who participated in “We Speak Your Name.” If anything really caused me to almost come undone—that was a very deep, deep, heart-rendering thing. And I know that there was a lot of work put into that effort. And I’m most appreciative of the committee, who stuck it out. Because not everybody believed in that idea. But for those who did, I think the mere fact that I was on that committee, they came to the realization that “We need to do this for her.” I really do believe that. See, my husband has gotten all kind of attention. I think I may have said this in that first time that I spoke—no, I said it to Mrs. Antone, when I talked with her. I told her this, I said, “You know, I pretty much have been content to live out my experiences vicariously through my husband.” Because, as the first undergraduate of the University of Florida, he wouldn’t have gotten these accolades. But he also got his Master’s here and he got his law degree here.





Now, because he got those degrees here, and he came back to teach here, then he served on the Alumni Board for several years, and the Black Alumni—is the President of the Black Alumni Association. Which, by the way, the Black Alumni group was established—I was on that committee. My husband wasn’t on the committee, but I was on that committee. That never—even we don’t always give—people are people. I don’t care what color they are. And so, I think for me, it really has been a liberating, a freeing, and a healing. I’m sure that, for others, it probably has been the same thing. I live in Gainesville. And so, I live with it every day. When we moved to Tallahassee in [19]94—and we were there for a while; I love Tallahassee—people didn’t understand why I didn’t want to come back to Gainesville. “Your family’s here. Your children were born here. Your friends here,” etc., etc. But, you know: pain is pain. I don’t care where you experience it. And I didn’t intend on staying in Gainesville when I graduated from nursing. Right at the time I was graduating was when I met my husband. [Laughter] I had planned to stay here long enough to work, get some experience, take the Boards, pass the Boards, and I was out of here. Now, I had that much sense that I knew I needed to get some experience. I knew I had to take the Boards. I mean, you just don’t work as a nurse without a license. But by this time, I met him. And so, that sort of predetermined. When he graduated from law school and we went to Washington, we weren’t there a year before we moved to Fort Lauderdale. We weren’t in Fort Lauderdale a year before we moved back to Gainesville. And I thought to myself, “Am I in a daze? Am I in a fog? What is going on here?” Well, all of our children were born here. They grew up here and everything. When we





moved to Tallahassee, I thought to myself, “Boy, finally do I get to get out of this place!” But you know, healing doesn’t take place until you come back to the place where you’ve been hurt. You remember that, hear? Healing does not take place until you come back to the place where you’ve been hurt. And I know that the hurt that was perpetrated on me while I was in nursing school—I think if those same people had to do it over again today, I don’t think they would do it the same way. I really don’t think so. I don’t think so.

	H:	You’re a member of the Fiftieth Commemoration Committee? M:	Yes.

	H:	Can you tell me a little bit about that?



	M:	Well, as a member of that committee, we met on a monthly basis. It was chaired by the University of Florida community liaison person of Florida Bridgewater- Alford. You know her?

	H:	No.



	M:	You need to meet her. She’s a graduate. She’s an undergraduate. But even she didn’t experience the kind of stuff, because I think Florida probably graduated in early [19]90s. Early [19]90s, maybe [19]91, [19]92, somewhere in there. So she and the dean of community relations were the ones—Florida really was the mastermind and the power behind it. It comprised of Joel Buchanan, somebody else from the library—oh, Carl Van Ness? Yes. And Michael Blakey from Performing Arts, or Entertainment, or whatever. University Alumni had a couple of people on the committee. Myself. Cynthia Chestnut who has a degree from here. She’s a commissioner. And Melissa Bamba from the law school who is with





the center for Social justice, and Dr.—she’s over in Black Studies, over in African American Studies—and I think she was a representative from the faculty. If I had known you were going to ask me that, I would have brought the names so I could remember all them.

H:   Is it Stephanie Evans?



	M:	No, it’s not Stephanie. Not Stephanie, no. She’s—I almost called it then. I can’t remember her name right now. Anyway, she was at the program that night.

Yeah, she was there. So, we put out a lot of information to try to find out where the first were, to find out who they were. We had a lot of difficulty. We had a lot of difficulty in finding it, because the records are just not there. They were not kept. And if they were kept, people were not willing to go digging into the boxes and find where the information is. But in the end, I think they did a really good job.

They did a really good job. We met every—for a year and a half. We kicked it off with the pre-gala over at the president’s home which was in February of [20]08. Then in September, you know, the activities they had, that commemorated the fifty or whatever the number of years it was that George Starke came and entered the law school in 1958. And he was here for that weekend. Yeah, he was here that weekend. And then, that was the Black Alumni Weekend with the football game that they have, and the activities. Then what else did we do? They asked every college to try to find out who that person was in their college, and what their names are/were, and where are they. Just find out some—take an interest. Take an interest. Be a part of bringing the history to a reality. You know, let’s put it out there. I think that a committee meeting of one hour—oh, I know!





Larnell Vickers was on there! Larnell is the vice president of the student body this year. And then, Anthony Crenshaw of the IBC. And so, they worked on there. It was Larnell’s idea for the gala. He insisted. He insisted. That was his idea. And it was beautiful. I mean, it really—it was more than I could’ve expected. I know the the other Firsts, and the other people in attendance, they were just in awe. They just could not believe. I looked at George Allen’s face, and some of the others.

They just could not believe it. Well, I knew—I had some inkling as to what was going to go on; but the last three meetings, I volunteered to dismiss myself. So, Florida finally said to me, “Evelyn you are not to come back, because we want it to be special for you, too.” And so, a lot of the details I didn’t know about, but it turned out very well. It was more than I could’ve expected. When they do the bricks with our names on them—do you know about that?

	H:	I think so.



	M:	Over here, right there in front of the university auditorium, there’s an area that they’re going to do the bricks with each of our names on it, and the year and what have you. And so, they’re supposed to do a little ceremony. So I think that really does say a lot. You know, I never went to the University of Florida’s—to the president’s home until Dr. Lombardi was president? We never got an invitation to the President’s home, for anything. Dr. Lombardi opened up things, and then Dr. Young came, and then Dr. Machen. So, I think the leadership has changed. The leadership has changed.

	H:	So if you went back and met that young Evelyn Marie Moore Mickle—well, I guess Evelyn Marie Moore at that time—and told her that in fifty years, or forty





years I guess, there would be a Black president, or an African American president, what do you think she’d say?

	M:	I’d say we got a long ways to go. But you know, I basically am an optimist. I’m somewhat naïve, or was, to a lot of things. And I think that has a lot to do with my upbringing. But also, I just try not to look for a lot of negative stuff. So. I just believe that many of the things that my parents and others gave their life for—I just felt like at some point soon, that God was going to open up a door that we really didn’t know was going to open. I didn’t know where it was going to come from, but that’s what you have to do: you have to have faith. If hadn’t had the kind of upbringing that I had, I couldn’t have stayed year one in that College of Nursing. Because Neil Butler was not a friend of mine, you hear what I tell you? He was married. He had to work. He had two families to take care of. I seldom ever saw him. We didn’t study together. So if I didn’t feel good about myself, and if I didn’t have some confidence in somebody other than myself, I could not have made it. Bottom line! Bottom line. But, see, when I went home, I knew my parents were looking for people, and they were looking for them to tell them who to vote for and how to vote. Not only that, but when I went to Mt. Carmel on Sunday mornings, and went there in the afternoon, Reverend Wright’s house—they were calling and threatening him, because Mt. Carmel was the center for the Civil Rights Movement here in this county, in this area. He was ran out of St.

Augustine over there organizing stuff for Dr. Martin Luther King. He literally had to get out of town by the cover of night. You haven’t met him, but you ought to try to meet him before you leave here. His daughter and her husband is in Orlando





at Covenant. His daughter was one who integrated Gainesville High School. They beat that poor child. Yes. Yes, mmhm. They beat her one day. She was black and blue all over—her face, her body. She stayed home from school a whole week, but she got up and she said, “I’m going back. They are not going to beat me.” Joel Buchanan was in the group; Joel, LaVon, and Sandra. LaVon and Sandra were members of Mt. Carmel. Reverend Wright drove them every morning—at first with a police escort. My cousin Harry T. Moore and his wife, Harriet Moore, were killed in Mims, Florida, on Christmas night, on their anniversary. He registered more Black people in this state than any other state in the union of the United States. University of Florida did a documentary on Harry

T. Moore. You ought to get the documentary. And Live Oak is in the documentary. Oh, it’s in the documentary because he was from Live Oak— actually from Houston, out from Live Oak. You ought to look at that documentary. Honest to goodness, you ought to. You had to be a little bit insane, or you would have to be real naïve. Remember, I told you: I didn’t want to stay. My mother told me, “You are not coming home. What did you go there for?” “To get a nursing degree, Momma.” “Well stay there if you haven’t flunked out. And Marie: you don’t flunk out. Because if anybody else can do it, you can do it too. I’m going pray for you. We’re going to try to get you some money. And you got to do the rest. You're going have to trust in the Lord and do the best you can. If you need help, go ask even if they don’t give it to you.” That’s right, that’s what she told me. And that’s what she would tell me again today. “Have you done the best that you can do?” “Yes, ma'am” or “No, ma'am.” “If you haven’t, you need to do the





best that you can do. And then, if you did the best that you can do, then you just have to depend on the Lord to do the rest. But don’t ask Him to do what you haven’t decided you can do.” And listen, we didn’t bring no bad grades home!

Not if we wanted any peace. [Laughter] You know, she knew we were getting by with some stuff, but there’s some stuff that Momma wasn’t going to tolerate.

Now, we were not—I didn’t have a 4.0. There was some wiggle room. But bringing home Cs and Ds? Unh-uh! And not too many Bs, depending on what your ability. Yeah, depending on what your ability; not too many Bs. “Marie, you ought to have more As than this.” “Yes, ma'am.” “Marie, next semester, next time you bring that report card home, I need to see something different on there.” Now, she was harder on the ones that she knew had the ability than she was on the ones who didn’t, especially if they would halfway listen. To whom much is given, much is required. I feel like I’ve been given a lot. Did you hear me tell you about the teachers—I mean, I wish I could tell you about some of the people that have been in my life, who have invested in my life, because much is required when people invest in your life. Because they saw something in me that I didn’t see in myself. And I probably still don’t see it. I’m too naïve to see it. I’m too finite to see it. I just don’t see it, but they see something in you. Like I tell my children, I say, “I see in you what’s in you. You don’t see it, but I see it.” And so, I think others do see in you what you cannot see in yourself. So, in my own words, what would I think forty-some years later about a Black president? I would just say it’s been a long time coming. You know, his presidency is not the most miraculous thing that has happened. I think really what I see in his election is a





transformation of people. It let us see that there were so many people who wanted change that we weren’t even aware of. When he put together that team, it reminded me of the Underground Railroad. Do you know people didn’t know he had all that money for a long time? And it’s you young people who donated all that money, and others with resources. My daughter called me and told me about a meeting that she walked in on when she was working in Tallahassee. She worked for one of the largest law firms probably in the nation at that time. And she said, “Momma, I decided I would go for a walk. And I opened a conference room door, and they said, ‘Stephanie, come in.’” She said, “No, no, no, I was just walking.” She said they said, “We’re putting together a fundraising team for the Obama presidency.” That’s how they do it. So he has for the least of these, he said, “You can be, you’ll be first.” So there are a lot of dues that’s been paid, and I think that’s what he understands. He doesn’t come from an affluent beginning.

He’s paid some dues. He’s had some embarrassing days, you hear what I tell you? And not only that, but I’m sure that maybe he may have escaped a lot of discrimination; but he got some just because his daddy was an African and his momma was not the same. A lot of transformation had to take place right in that family. And so, I just look at the things that his presidency has done not only for America, but it’s all over the world, for marriages, for what the family is doing for family life, for setting a high standard, for integrity. I think he has tremendous integrity. And focus? Oh yes, he’s focused. He isn’t about to get sidetracked with the trivialities. He has put an engine together that only God could’ve helped him with. Criticism is going to be great, and in some ways unreal, because of the





things that he is going to attempt. But you know what? I’ve watched parts of the documentary that NBC has done the last two nights on Obama in the White House. Have you seen any of that?

	H:	No I haven’t.



	M:	Tonight it’s coming on at eight. It's on NBC. This is the third section of it. And when you look at the people he has surrounded himself with, it is just—it just shows you that it’s not about him being Black. That’s just a minute part of it. It’s about him being who he is from the inside out. Because you know they have already tried to wipe him off the globe. Sure they have. Everybody who laugh in your face ain’t for you. Mm-mm. They not for you. Forget that. You need to know that. But he has done a lot for your image. Yes, he’s done a lot for your image. I just hope that it will give inspiration to us, to let us know--you know, my brother- in-law called my husband. My husband been in tears since before the election. Just the idea. But my brother-in-law—who is a veterinarian, and he went to Tuskeegee; he’s living in Atlanta—the night of the election, he called my husband. He was, I mean, the two of them— [Laughter] I said, “Y’all need to cut it out. Y’all need to stop all that crying.” But he said—this is what it did for him: he said, “Now I can tell my son that he can be a president of the United States if he wants to be. All before this, I couldn’t say that.” The difference between that and what I would say to mine, if you want to be it, and if God is for it, you could be it. Because that’s what my mother would have told me. Now, the road’s going to be a lot harder for you, because you’re not a Kennedy, you're not a Bush, and you're





not a Rockefeller. So it’s going be a lot harder, but all things are possible if you believe. [Laughter] You’re enjoying talking to me aren’t you?

	H:	Yes ma’am! [Laughter] I could stay here all day.



	M:	So anyway, I just see a transformation. It’s a transformation for the oppressed. I going to tell you, many of them have been oppressed. Let me tell you why they oppressed: because they know that much of how African-Americans have been treated was wrong. And they felt powerless to do anything about it singularly. My husband and the children—Stephanie, Amy, and Stephan Pierre—went to Washington for the inauguration. I did not go.

	H:	Why didn’t you go?



	M:	I didn’t go because there was something in me that did not want me to go. And I know now why I couldn’t go. I spent the day with my mother. When he took the oath of office—you know, first of all, my husband had bought me an Obama shirt with Michelle and Barack on it. And it was pink. And so I took my shirt out. I had a Martin Luther King and Obama shirt from the commemoration of the activities here, so that’s what I put on. But I put on my pearls, because the AKA’s were supposed to wear pearls that day; they encouraged all the women to wear pearls for Michelle. So I put on my pearls, and I went next door. And the caregiver and I dressed Momma, and put on the Obama shirt and everything. Remember I told you my mother and daddy, their life has been threatened. They’ve worked, and they’ve done this. You would think that they should’ve been looked at the least of these, but there were others that needed their help that they could give. And so, we got her dressed and put her out there in her chair, and she watched the





Obama—now listen, she reminded us since August that we needed to get that absentee ballot, because she needed to vote. So we got her all dressed, and she got on her pearls, and she got on her Obama shirt. When Aretha was singing “My Country 'Tis of Thee,” she said, “I like that hat.” She said, “Marie, I like that hat.” That’s a sign that I need to go try and see if I can find a hat like that. But she has a little green hat like that. [Laughter] And so, when he took the oath of office, let me tell you what my mother did: she raised her right hand, and she took the oath of office with him, in support of him. She took this for my father. She took this for my cousin who had been killed. She took this for the boys that’d been lynched in the Suwannee River in Live Oak. She took this for the crosses that had been burned in our yard, and in Montgomery’s yard, and in other folks’ yards. She took this for all who could not eat at the same lunch counter, or get a float at the front of the lunch counter, who had to go upstairs. She took the oath of office as a sign of faith that this day is finally here. And every person that I helped understand a ballot, and who to vote for, whether they’re dead or alive, I just thank God. So she raised her hand. After that happened, we took her picture. I said that’s why I couldn’t go, because she did not deserve to watch this ceremony by herself. Her children should have been there with her. When I told my brothers about that, especially one that is retired, they said, “You know, if we had thought about this a little more carefully, we would’ve been in Gainesville to watch this with Momma, because this is significant.” And so, my husband took the children, and I stayed with my mother. And my sister came home from work. We did not let her watch that by herself. Age ninety-four, and she lived to see a Black president.





	H:	That’s incredible.



	M:	It’s incredible. It’s incredible. It’s incredible. But God is good, and He’s faithful. It may take a long time according to our time, but righteousness will prevail. And so, what other questions you going to ask me? What time is it? We done been talking almost 2 hours! [Laughter]

	H:	Have we? I didn’t want to stop you. M:	Hour and thirty minutes.

	H:	Is there anything that you feel—



	M:	What’s the questions you got there? H:	You’ve answered most of these.

	M:	Have I?



	H:	Yeah. Oh, yeah.



	M:	All that talking I did?



	H:	[Laughter] Did you consider yourself a civil rights activist while you were at the University of Florida?

	M:	I don’t think I ever considered myself as a civil rights activist. Now it’s interesting, because when I came here, I didn’t go to Mass Meetings. But when I was in Ocala, I went every Monday night to Mass Meeting. I said, “If my Momma knew I was at a Mass Meeting instead of studying—!” But you know, I went to Mass Meeting every Monday night at Covenant Baptist Church. Yes, I did. I tell you, I’ve done some things that really could’ve gotten me put in jail. Oh, yeah. When I was probably thirteen, fourteen, fifteen—maybe sixteen? I hadn’t graduated from high school. We went to the lunch counter, my cousins and I. And we had worked





during the summer, so we had a little money. We had gone to the movie, and we wanted some ice cream. So, we went to the drug store. How many of my cousins was with me? My brother was with—no it was just Evelyn, Chelle, and me— probably Beth. These are my cousins. They lived right there with us. I told them, I said, “We going in here, and we going get us some ice cream.” They said, “Girl, are you crazy?” I said, “Come on. We going get us some ice cream.” So, we went and sat on the stools. This had to be 1962. [19]61, or [19]62. I hadn’t graduated from high school. Yeah, it had to be early [19]60s. So the lady came back there and she say, “You all know y’all can’t sit on those stools.” I said, “Other people sit on the stools. We’re people, too. And we would like some ice cream.” She said, “I can’t wait on you if you sit on the stools.” I said, “We going to wait on you until you do.” My cousins didn’t say a word. [Laughter] I’m doing all the talking. And so, she was slow about taking our order: I say, “I’d like vanilla. Two scoops. How much would that be?” Remember, I was student government president. I was class president. So, I was used to speaking! And so, she got a little nervous. I told them, I said, “Let’s be nice to her, because she’s a little nervous.” So I said, “Are you going to wait on us?” She said, “I need to go ask.” I said, “You don’t need to ask your boss. We’re customers. We can buy anything in this store we want to buy with our money if we stand at the back. Why can’t we stand where we need to stand, where everybody else stands, with our money—which is the same color as their money—and get what we want?” So I told them, I said, “Let’s go on down to the end of the counter. I made my point. Let’s go down to the end of the counter.” They had sense enough to get our ice cream and leave. So, once





we got our ice cream—she waited on us, too. Same waiter. She gave us that ice cream, and we left on out the door. And went on down the street licking our ice cream. Now, you know the police could’ve picked us up. But I think she was just glad to get us out the store before her boss come in there and see her waiting on us. So, I’ve done some daring things in my life. And naïveness is probably a good thing. Because the Lord takes care of babies and fools and I sure wasn’t too wise [inaudible 1:37:43]! [Laughter]

	H:	My dad said that last night! [Laughter]



	M:	[Laughter] So anyway, yeah. I think one thing that perhaps I should tell you about my father—which was characteristic, I’m told by Harry's daughter Evangeline, the only daughter he has living. And that is, they didn’t talk a lot. We didn’t know my daddy was going to NAACP meeting a lot of times. Because he would take us to somebody else, and then he would go to his meeting. Now, if he really didn’t want us to know that he was going to a NAACP meeting, he’d tell us that he was going to a Pallbearer meeting. That’s like a little insurance or—it’s kind of similar to a fraternity or something, Masonic or something like that. And so, he’d tell us he was going to one of those kind of meetings. Or he’d tell us nothing! He dropped my mother off, and we would stay with somebody—remember, we live out in the country, now. So, we would go into to town, out from town, somewhere. Mmhm. I can see that little building we would go to, and nobody even know that building was back up in there. It was in the Black neighborhood. White folks ain’t have no business up in there. It was on somebody’s property. And it had one light in there. I remember when it didn’t even have an electric light in there; it just





had a flambeau. Or, you know, a bottle with a wick in it, and you light it like a lantern? Mmhm. I said, “Momma, what they going be doing back up in here? It’s dark up in here!” She say, “Well, it’s dark out there where you live, isn’t it?” I said, “Yes, but Momma, they talked about having a meeting. How can they see?” She say, “I think they’ll see well enough to do what they need to do.” But that’s how it was like an Underground Railroad, and that’s what Barack did, what Obama did. He ran an underground campaign, until it was time for him to come out. He didn’t start campaigning when we saw him. He had been campaigning a long time. At least six or eight years. I think he was making up his mind, making friends, seeing who his enemies were. Mmhm. So, I just think it was a transformation.

People were liberated. Let me tell you: some people aren’t happy, but guess what. They were interested in doing business as usual, and they still interested in doing business as usual. But his comment the other night was that, Brian Williams asked him, “Do you watch Newt Gingrich? You heard what he said about you?” And what’s the other guy, the radio person, that’s always talking about him?

	H:	Limbaugh?



	M:	Yeah, Rush Limbaugh. He said, “I don’t have time for that. That’s negative. I don’t have time to focus on that. I have so much to do that’s important that I can’t get side tracked with that stuff. You know, a lot of that come out every day. But I don’t watch it. I don’t have time to watch TV. I watch a little bit of TV. I have to read, and I have to meet with people, and I have to spend time with my family, and I have to make sure that Malia and Sasha knows that they still have a





father.” He said, “I just don’t have time for that.” I said, “Whoo! I know you right, brother. I know you’re right on that!” That’s good advice for anybody. I don’t care where you live. Just good advice. Just didn’t have time for it. But that’s what he told him. So, no I don’t listen to all that. Most presidents don’t listen to it. Most good leaders don’t listen to that stuff. Because you will be tied up and tangled up with a lot of inner turmoil if you did. You just cannot listen to that stuff. And he’s an avid reader, so his free time, if he has any, he spends it reading what’s going to build him up or what’s going to give him an edge on what he needs to do. So that’s what he said. Okay.

	H:	Are you an AKA? M:	Yes.

	H:	Were you an AKA here?



	M:	Child, please! No! [Laughter] Let me see, the Iota Lamda Chapter was founded in probably [19]79 or [19]80 on campus. The only kind of social life that we had, every now and then, somebody would through a party. We would go if we knew about it. And that wasn’t often. That was not often. Very little socializing did we do. Remember, I’m down the hill. Ruben Brigety was here the first year that I was here. He was the first med student. And so, he and I spent some time together.

We would find each other in the hospital and go down to the library, and he’d play the piano. He would play. We would get in his little car, or go and get some ice cream or a hamburger or something and talk, or go to Mama Lo’s or what have you. And essentially, we didn’t spend a lot of time with the students up on campus unless there was a weekend party that we would go to. So. If you didn’t





go to find something to go to in town--now, I made some friends at the church that were my age, that I lived right down the street from. And occasionally, we would go out to a night club that was way out on 39th, but I wouldn’t go to that many night clubs because I always thought that my Momma knew where I was— even if she wasn’t anywhere nearby! [Laughter]. You know, it’s amazing. With my kids, if they’re somewhere they have no business? I feel it—especially if things are not like they ought to be? I feel it in my spirit. I sense it. I say, “Now, what is she doing there?” Because see, some things you know about your children.

Maybe not one time, but it’s like a fish out of the water. That’s not where you supposed to be. I mean, this is not the kind of setting you’re supposed to be in. It’s not going to do anything for you. It’s not going build you up. And if you weren’t allowed to do that when you were growing up, then you pretty much are a fish out of water. You can go a few times, but you’re just going to say, “No, I just need to find something else to do for entertainment.” So, I always felt like Momma would know. Because Momma knew when I got sick. Well, you know how she knew?

The bill went to the house! I thought the bill was going come to my apartment. Because I didn’t tell her. I didn’t tell her. The bill at the house—so, she writes me a letter. We didn't have a phone. That’s another thing; my parents were not allowed to have—my parents were not given, they applied for a phone for about ten years or longer, or more, before they were able to get a phone. Everybody out there in our neighborhood, in our community, had a phone but us. You know why they didn’t install a phone for us?

	H:	Because you’re Black?





	M:	No! The Black folk—that’s what I’m talking about. All the Black folk had phones, White folks been had phones. Daddy was the president of the NAACP, remember? It was until my husband graduated from law school, we moved to Washington, and he worked for the Office of Economic Opportunity. On business stationery, he wrote to the phone company, and said that he expected that they would have a phone. I saw the letter the other day that he wrote. The next day, they went out there and put that post down, and they had a phone. Because he told them—and signed it Attorney at Law. He said, “You will be investigated if they do not get a phone.” It was on federal stationery. They didn’t know where it was coming from, but even so. No, we didn’t get no phone. I’m going tell you, that was in 1970. 1970! That was the year he graduated from law school. Mmhm. And the Tysons had had a phone. This is [19]70. I know the Tysons had a phone in 1960; maybe [19]58 or so. But no, we could not get a phone. They had tried, and tried, and tried, and tried to get a phone. No phone. Mm-mm. But why get angry? You can get upset. You just can’t stay angry overnight. It’s only going to hurt you. You have to figure out a way to deal with it, and wait ‘til the doors open. But yeah, other people—and you going get a party line at that time. Yeah, it was a party line. So. Do you have another question?

	H:	No, if you don’t have anything to add, not really. Thank you so much. M:	You’re welcome.

	H:	I’m going to stop the tape. [End of the interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, July 26, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019