AAHP 203; Curry; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 203 Patricia Curry

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Rosalind Smith on November 6, 2011 16 minutes | 13 pages



Abstract: Patricia Curry discusses her experience growing up in Ocala, Florida during segregation. She tells of how she worked in tomato fields, watermelon fields, okra fields and more. Curry notes that she was encouraged to move to Gainesville to escape the racism the she experienced in Ocala. She notes how the discrimination was less severe in Gainesville but still very prevalent. She says that the election of Barack Obama was not an indication of the end of racism but rather a sugar-coating on the problem. She comments on the importance of the church community in supporting voting rights of Blacks during the Civil Rights Movement.



Keywords: [African American History, Segregation, Ocala, Florida, Gainesville, Florida]























































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 203

Interviewee: Patricia Curry Interviewer: Rosalind Smith Date: November 6, 2011



	S:	This is Patricia Curry. I just want to thank you Patricia Curry for giving me this interview for University of Florida oral history department. My first question is what year were you born?

	C:	1949.



	S:	And you were raised where? C:	In Ocala, Florida.

	S:	And you went to an all-Black school? C:	Yes.

	S:	And the White school was farther from the Black school where you lived? C:	Yes.

	S:	Did you walk to school? C:	Yes.

	S:	Did you experience any segregation? I mean like when you walked to school any…?

	C:	No.



	S:	Okay. What did your mom do for a living? C:	She was a house keeper.

	S:	And she worked for who, do you remember? C:	She worked for the Gustafson grandson.

	S:	And what kind of business was that? C:	That was a way to make milk.

	S:	Milk, oh okay. And did she like where she was working at?





	C:	I guess.



	S:	Was she allowed to leave, or was she forced to work there? C:	No.

	S:	Like for instance if she wanted to quit, she could leave if she want to? C:	Yes.

	S:	Okay. As a young girl during high school did you experience any segregation?



Like did you all have second hand books, supplies from the White schools?



	C:	Yeah, yes.



	S:	Were they damaged? C:	Yes.

	S:	Were your teachers Black? C:	Yes.

	S:	Okay, did you experience any segregation like growing up, like in high school? C:	No.

	S:	Did you experience any segregation? C:	Yes.

	S:	Okay, can you tell me about it please?



	C:	One time when we went to Hollywood, Florida we got in an accident, so I had to come and go to summer school, and I went to Ocala High at that time, and one of the boys in the class, his name was Rusty, went and tried to spit on me. And I told him I’d knocked the, well, the devil out of him. Then another time this boy he, I had to leave because my mama’s waiting on me, asked him to let me by, he wouldn’t let me by, so I pushed him over the chairs.







S:



C:



S:

So when you went to summer school was White people in your school? Yeah that was all White school.

All White school. Okay, so that was your experience. They didn’t have summer



school at the Black school?

C:

No.

S:

Oh!

C:

I had to go to that school.

S:

You had to go to the White school.

C:

Uh-huh.

S:

And I’m pretty sure there were White teachers teaching at the White school.

C:

Yes.

S:

Oh, okay. What did your dad do for a living?

C:

He was a lawn man, cleaned yards.

S:

Cleaned yards? And he cleaned for mostly White people.

C:

Yes.

S:

Okay. Did you get your high school diploma?

C:

Yes.

S:

So you always went to school, you never had to work on a farm or—?

C:

No, we didn’t work in farms, we worked in fields.

S:

Fields. Okay, what did you do in the field?

C:

I worked in the tomato field. I worked in the watermelon field. I worked in the



bean field. I worked in the peanut field. I worked in the okra field.





	S:	Oh, okay. So there were all just mostly Black people working in the field growing up?

	C:	Yes Black children, because they wouldn’t let the Black children work in no restaurants and stuff like that.

	S:	So you had no other choice.



	C:	Around the time I was growing up.



	S:	Yeah, I understand. Did you work in the fields like during the summertime? C:	Yes.

	S:	It was during the summertime. C:	Yes.

	S:	Okay, and whatever money you made did you give it towards the family, to help out the family, or was it your pocket money?

	C:	I didn’t make enough. I made with my pocket money.



	S:	It was your pocket money, okay. How old were you, I mean do you remember the youngest you were, how old you were?

	C:	I’ll say about maybe about 12.



	S:	Twelve, that young? And do you remember who field it belonged to, what owner? C:	No I don’t. I don’t know who owned it.

	S:	When you moved to Gainesville, do you remember—or Alachua County— do you remember, do you feel any segregation or felt anything different than when you were growing up in Ocala?





	C:	No, most segregation I feel, I felt, was in Ocala. When I moved to Gainesville, the only thing I knew was when I worked at the Beta House is that this man hit me in my face, and now I think that was race related.

	S:	He was a resident at the retirement home? C:	Yeah, yes.

	S:	And that was a retirement home where you were working at. Okay, so and most of those people were mostly White—

	C:	Yes.



	S:	How did you respond to the hit?



	C:	Really, I couldn’t do anything because he was a patient there, but I told them to get him, because if he hit me again I might have lost my job. So, I didn’t do anything to him, cause they want to say that they weren’t being in their right mind, but I think he was in his right mind.

	S:	Okay.



	C:	Okay?



	S:	So you knew he was in his right mind? C:	Yeah, yeah.

	S:	Do you remember his name to this day?



	C:	No I don’t remember the name; been so many years ago. S:	Did you experience anything else here in Gainesville?

	C:	No, not as far as race relation. Most race relation— race related— situations was in Ocala.

	S:	In Ocala.





	C:	That’s one of the reasons why I moved from Ocala. S:	To Gainesville really.

	C:	Yeah, that’s one of the reasons why I moved from Ocala because, like I said, when I was growing up me and my cousin we were walking down the street, we had eggs thrown at us, and we had to dock in the bushes to keep from getting hit, okay. And another—

	S:	Were you all in your own neighborhood or were you in the White neighborhood? C:	Yeah, no, we was in our own neighborhood, or that time it was called 24th street,

and we was coming from the store, which was a dominant Black area, they was passing by in the cars, and they throw eggs at us, and we had to duck into the bush to keep from getting hit with the eggs. And then another time me and my friends, my daddy had owned a night— a little Juke joint— they called it back then, and I was walking my friends home and this was late in the evening, not no 10 or 12 o’clock, it was like 5 or 6 o’clock in the evening, and some guys came by in a car, some White guys came by in a car, they asked us “do you want a ride?” and we said “no,” and then they start speaking Spanish. Don’t ask me what they said because I don’t know, don’t speak Spanish. And so we boast up, me and my friends separated, they ran home and I ran to my daddy juke joint, and by the time I got inside my daddy’s juke joint, they had came back round again, to see if we were still there, but we weren’t there.

	S:	Can I go back to when you were younger with your mom and your dad, did you see them experience any hatred by White people?





	C:	Only, no I didn’t see them experience hatred but the thing that got to me is when my daddy had to say “yes, ma’am,” and “no, ma’am,” to these people he was talking to on the phone. I’ve told him, “you don’t have to say that,” but back then that’s what they did. They said “yes, ma’am,” and “no, ma’am” to White people.

	S:	Yes, did you ever say “yes ma’am no ma’am” to White people growing up? C:	If I did, I don’t remember because I wasn’t around that many of them.

	S:	You really weren’t exposed to that many White people. C:	Right, right.

	S:	So only time you were really exposed to White people was when you went to summer school after you had your accident.

	C	Yeah, yeah.



	S:	Okay, so back to Gainesville you used to work at Beta house, which was a retirement home, and your only experience was with the guy—one of the residents—who hit you, because you alleged- because, you think, you were Black. Anything else you can remember working at Beta house?

	C:	No, that’s the only thing that I can remember about working at the Beta house. Only other time that I experienced any racial things when I was working for this White lady cause I don’t remember her name, but she had to call whoever company then that I was working up under, call them and see if did she had to pay me for cleaning her house and taking care of her.

	S:	Really?



	C:	Uh-huh.



	S:	Wow, and was she an older lady or?





	C:	Yeah, she was an older lady.



	S:	Okay, and you were working for like a job service company or something?



	C:	I don’t remember. It might have been one of them jobs where you know like you get a look, go and get a little extra money on the weekend or something like that. That’s one thing I can remember, I don’t remember what company I was working for or what, but she called them and she if she had to pay me for cleaning her house and taking care of her.

	S:	Yeah, yeah, that’s what they taught us in school that some employer felt that they didn’t have to pay some Blacks and stuff. And how did you feel about that situation? Did you talk to her about it or did you talk to the service company about it?

	C:	Well, I think they talked to her, but she wound up paying me. S:	Oh, that’s good.

	C:	Yeah, she had to pay me. But I’d never experienced no bad experience with her no more than that. And like I said, I didn’t experience too much racist stuff. I’ve had, racial things, racial slurs and things said, but I ignored them.

	S:	You ignored them. C:	Uh-huh.

	S:	Was that because you didn’t want to start trouble or you just, were you taught just to ignore stuff like that or?

	C:	Well one of the reasons I did it because is that I knew I was Black, and I know back then during that time that’s the way White people was raised; to hate Black people. And they don’t know the reason why up until this day why they don’t like





Black people some of them, because we ain’t never did nothing to them. The only reason it’s just the way that they was taught, that’s all what it is— the way they was taught. Some of them was taught that they better than us, they say, they’re taught that we ain’t no good but then these days, time, things have changed. Is good and bad on both sides, so just because a person of color of their skin don’t mean that he’ll [inaudible at 10:56] because you got some White people out there crazy and you got some Black people out there crazy. So it don’t make no difference.

	S:	So do you think with president Obama being our president now, being Black, do you think as a race we came full circle with both races? Do you think the race relations between Black and White has gotten better or do you think it has gotten worse?

	C:	It’s just sugar-coated. S:	It’s sugar-coated.

	C:	I think it’s sugar-coated.



	S:	And what do you mean by that? Can you give me an example?



	C:	When I said “sugar-coated,” I mean they put the good, they put up a front, some people put up a front, but really they heart is not there. Okay, they still have that, if it boils down to it where if they started or someone marry a Black person or a Black child want to marry a White person, they still have that prejudice there.

They don’t want it to happen. If you say you changed, it shouldn’t even matter. A person, people ain’t nothing but people. It’s good and bad on both sides, and





God I’ll say we is one, we all was born in this country, we’re here to save the country, we’re here to serve each other; regardless of what color we is.

	S:	And since you mentioned like under God, I’m going to go back to religion, because I haven’t asked you about church, but as a child growing up or, church was that the main focus in your family?

	C:	Yup.



	S:	Okay, and did the church was it involved like during the civil rights movement or had any kind of involvement like voting rights or?

	C:	Well they had their voting, back then they had people could go vote. S:	Black people could go vote?

	C:	Uh-huh.



	S:	Was no kind of violence or? C:	Not as far as I know.

	S:	As you know. So your mom and dad they voted? C:	Yeah, as far as I know.

	S:	They did.



	C:	Uh-huh.



	S:	Okay. Well, Patricia Curry I want to thank you for giving me this interview, and I just want to say thank you again.

	C:	You’re welcome Ros. [End of Interview]





[Separate part of the interview]



	S:	This is Patricia Curry again and she just wanted to elaborate more on her childhood growing up. I’m ask you again about your mom, you said she worked for the Gustafson, that was a milk company, and you want to talk about when she had passed away.

	C:	Yeah. When Mr. Gustafson found out that my mom had passed away, like most people did give flowers or money, he gave me a gallon of grease lard, which you cook with, and said my mama was a good worker. That was it.

	S:	How long she was working for the company?



	C:	She working for him maybe about ten or twelve years. S:	And he just gave her a gallon of grease?

	C:	Gave me.



	S:	Okay, gave you—



	C:	A gallon of grease after she had died. Said she was a good worker. S:	And how did you feel about that gift?

	C:	You really don’t want me to say.



	S:	Okay, I understand. Is there anything else you want to talk about your childhood growing up?

	C:	Yeah, after I got grown and me and my cousin, living in Ocala, me and my cousin went to a restaurant looking, my cousin went looking for a job, and we went inside the restaurant so she can talk to somebody about hiring her, and the little girl, little White girl behind the counter, everybody was looking at us like we was crazy and then the lady came out, the owner of the restaurant, said she had a





place for us around the back. I told her no she didn’t, and so I told my cousin “Come on let’s go. You don’t need to work here,” so we left.

	S:	And—



	C:	And…



	S:	Go ahead.



	C:	When I was working at Munroe Memorial Hospital in Ocala, they had brought this guy, this man, this Black man in that was castrated. They find out that he was going with this White lady, and they castrated him. They had him tied to a tree, and they left him out there for a few days, and they had brought him in to the hospital. Back then I guess that’s the way things was in Ocala, you didn’t do those things like they do now. And like I said that’s one of the reasons why I left Ocala when I graduated from High school, cause it was real prejudice there, and I felt that I could do better somewhere else.

	S:	At the hospital, was it segregated with White section and Black section in the hospital?

	C:	Yup.



	S:	And with the Black man who was castrated, was he really going with the White lady or was it just rumors?

	C:	That was rumors.



	S:	Just rumors.



	C:	Uh-huh.



	S:	Did it start any kind of like vigilante? C:	Not that I know of.





	S:	Okay, alright. And you worked at that hospital as? C:	I worked in the kitchen.

	S:	You worked in the kitchen, okay. Alright Ms. Patricia Curry I want to thank you again for giving me this interview, and thank you on behalf of UF.

	C:	Okay. [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Jennifer Romero, December 9, 2015 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, January 24, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 20, 2019