AAHP 604; Golden; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 604 Ida Mae Golden 5-31-2018 Interviewed by Julian Valdivia on May 31, 2018 69 minutes | 38 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Ida Mae Golden shares the story of her life in Lee County, Florida, after her birth in the late 1920s. She grew up alongside seven siblings in what she defines as a relatively poor family. Her father, originally from Jacksonville, Florida, was employed with the Eldebaut Company as a construction worker. The family’s limited finances led the children to create their own toys out of junk materials, an effort Golden remembers fondly. Golden recalls the layout of the Black community in Fort Meyers at the time, remembering important social hubs in the community and other landmarks from her childhood. Golden recalls first attending William’s Academy for primary school before moving up to the relatively prestigious all-Black Dunbar High School. Later, her children would go on to be among the first to integrate the formerly all-White Fort Meyers High School. After graduating high school, Golden worked as a domestic in private homes. Golden, who attended Friendship Baptist Church, recalls the importance of the church in her community and personal life alike. She recalls the efforts of Isadore Davis, who she dubs Father of the Civil Rights Movement in Fort Meyers, crediting him with emboldening the Black community to take action against

racial segregation and discrimination. Under his guidance, she participated in sit-ins and other acts of anti-segregation protest, which contributed to the achievement of integration by the 1970s.





Keywords: [Fort Meyers, Lee County, Florida, Black community, segregation, integration, Civil Rights, protest, school, Dunbar, Williams Academy]



AAHP 604

Interviewee: Ida Mae Golden Interviewer: Julian Valdivia Date: May 31, 2018





	V:	Alright. This is Julian Valdivia, with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. I’m here at the Lee County Black History Society in Roberto Clemente Park in Fort Myers, Florida, and I’m sitting here with Ms.?

	G:	Ida Mae Golden.



	V:	Alright. And Ida Mae Golden, thank you so much for being here today. G:	Thank you.

	V:	Alright. So I wanted to start with basic questions about you growing up, and the first will be where and when were you born?

	G:	Fort Myers, Florida.



	V:	Alright. And what year? G:	1928.

	V:	Oh wow! Alright. And do you remember, were you born in a hospital or at home? G:	Midwife.

	V:	Okay.



	G:	I really don’t remember her name, during the time I was giving birth we had midwives to come to the home.

	V:	Okay. And 1928. I don’t know myself, was Jones-Walker around yet? The Jones- Walker hospital?







G:

Yes.

V:

Okay. So there was—

G:

Let me say it like this. That was the year I was born in.

V:

Yeah, okay [Laughter

G:

But as I grew up, Jones-Walker hospital was in the area.

V:

Okay, alright. And if I could ask too, what were the names of your parents?

G:

Willie Redmon and Eva Redmon.

V:

Okay. So that was Willy, W-I-L-L-Y?

G:

E.

V:

Oh, e. So actually could you spell it then?

G:

W-I-L-L-I-E.

V:

Okay. And then…

G:

And Eva. E-V-A.

V:

E-V-A.

G:

Redmon.

V:

Redmon.

G:

R-E-D-M-O-N.

V:

Okay. M-O-N. Okay, perfect. And did you have any siblings as well?







G:

Have any what?

V:

Siblings. Brothers and sisters.

G:

I only had one. Now, it was eight of us.

V:

Okay.

G:

Yeah. All of them have passed away, now I just have one.

V:

Oh, okay.

G:

And his name is Isaiah Redmon.

V:

Okay. And how do you spell his name?

G:

I.

V:

I.

G:

S-A-I-A-H.

V:

S-A-I-A-H. Okay. And if I could ask then, what did your parents do for a living?

G:

My parents were — we were all poor people, so more than housework, farming,



my daddy did his part of construction for Eldebaut Company. I remember that.

V:

Okay. It was the L-what company?

G:

Eldebaut.

V:

Oh, Eldebaut.

G:

I think E-L-D-E-B-A-U-T; Eldebaut Company.

V:

Okay.





G:   Okay.



	V:	And did they move to Fort Myers, or were they also born and raised here as well?

	G:	No. My daddy was from the Jacksonville area. And my mother was from West Florida.

	V:	Alright. Just somewhere in West Florida, you don’t know a specific place where she was from? If you don’t know that’s also alright.

G:  Um-hm. That’s alright. Just won’t come to me right now. V:  That’s fine. But your father was from Tallahassee, then. G:  Jacksonville.

V:  Oh Jacksonville, I apologize. Do you remember why he had— or your parents had chose Fort Myers as a place to settle? No?

G:   No. I don’t know that.



	V:	Oh okay. And sorry, growing up, do you remember what chores were around the house?

G:   With what?



V:   Chores. Like—



G:   Chores.



V:   Chores.





	G:	We made our toys. V:	Oh toys. Yes.

	G:	When I was coming up, we didn’t have the money to buy toys, so what we did was take old tires and use them to roll each other in. We’d get in the tire and roll each other down the sandy roads and you all have fancy skateboards now, but our skateboards — we would get skates at Christmas. And when the skates would wear out, we would take the wheels off the skate, and then we would make the skateboard. Put them on pieces of board. It wasn’t fancy, but we know how to get it on those boards and ride down the streets because most our streets during that time was sand. We didn’t have paved streets during that time.

	V:	So in terms of the city, being developed and things like that, what were the big areas? Was there a Black business area, was there— I know there was downtown Fort Myers still, and things like that. Were there any places that you went to or you frequented a lot with your parents?

	G:	We didn’t have a car. So we walked to town, but then we lived on Sutton Street area. And we lived not too far from the White community. So there was Gibbs grocery store down from our house around the corner. So we kinda had access to a little sidewalk and a little paved roads. So that’s kinda where we kinda did our skateboard riding and our tire rolling, and what have you. But, [inaudible 6:25] always going to the store ‘cause during that time you know, you could get things for a dime, nickel, or something like that. So we’d always be going to the store for something, but that was our fun, just to go to the store was fun. But they





gave us time to do our skateboarding, and then climbing trees was very popular during that time. And we had a lot of mango trees, and I ate it, so we just loved to do that. Climb trees and pull down coconuts on the coconut tree.

	V:	Okay. And do you remember— because I don’t know how developed things were. Did you or your friends ever go to any of the water or shore around here when you were young?

	G:	We were— sun street, the water was kind of prohibition. Because during that time, we called it the “Seawall.” They didn’t have the restrictions that they have now. And so we could just go down under the sea wall, to the river, and we’d crab and fish.

	V:	Oh okay.



	G:	That was part of our food. The reason for our meal. And so that was a lot of fun for us as we grew up. My old brothers and sisters, which I was the third, and then I had a brother and sister under me. And one of my brothers just liked the beach. So as I said, there were no restrictions. So seawall was kind of a fun place for us. And even it being fun, we’d crab and fish. We didn’t have fishing poles like people have. We did with strings.

	V:	So you made your own? G:	Uh-huh.

	V:	Oh wow.





	G:	Uh-huh. And we made nets. Take a long piece of wood and make your own net to crab with. So most things we used just coming up even for fun, we made it.

	V:	Okay. Now, I mean this is just based on when you were born, but it sounds like you were born during the Depression— well, you were born during the Depression era and things like that. Do you remember how the Depression affected Fort Myers and your family?

	G:	Well, housing during that time was just frame houses. We didn’t have the luxury of the sealant— you know the sealant and you know how they put the — I don’t know what you call it when they seal up homes, we just had… housing with… just frame. Just frame houses.

	V:	Yep, the wall and the roof.



	G:	Yeah, frame houses. That didn’t have no ceiling top, no, just frame houses with windows, and you had to let up when there’s no electricity— I mean, no air conditioning. You just let up your windows. And that’s how we lived. No fancy curtains or anything like that. I guess you seen on TV, you seen these old houses and things where people, yeah well, I’m kind of familiar with that.

	V:	Yeah, [Laughter]



	G:	Yeah, I’m real familiar with that.



	V:	Now, you said there was no electricity, and this is just a random thing that I remember from reading— it wasn’t until the 1940s that Fort Myers actually got electricity in the houses right?





	G:	Mmhm.



	V:	Do you remember what that was like, or do you remember when you first got electricity in the house?

	G:	Oh, I remember the first radio we got. Which was amazing. And I remember my daddy got electricity [inaudible 11:01] late [19]40s, or something like that. We had just one plug. And however Daddy got the cord that is one plug, that one plug was used for the fridge there, the radio, and however they did it. I was too young to remember all of this stuff, but I remember when we finally got an old Frigidaire from somewhere. And that old Frigidaire, that one plug was used with the cord, was used for the fridge there and the radio. And we were still doing hand ironing. Didn’t have electric iron. We still did hand ironing.

	V:	Okay. Do you remember what store you’d buy your appliances from? Like the radio and the things like that?

	G:	If I’m not mistaken, it seemed like to me whatever we got— and that was late in life— probably got it from Bill Smith.

	V:	Bill Smith, okay.



	G:	Yeah, probably got it from Bill Smith.



	V:	Did he run a general store, or appliance store?



	G:	You know, I don’t remember. I was too young to remember.





	V:	Oh okay. That’s fine. So then, I want to ask then, the responsibilities in the house, like chores and the work and things like that. Did you help with cleaning or maybe gardening or anything like that?

	G:	That was our responsibility. We did the washing, the ironing, the cooking, the cleaning. We had certain chores we had to do before we went to school. And when we came home from school. I walked from Sun Street to Dunbar. I was trying to think of the name of the school we went to before we went to Dunbar. I can’t think of it, if it comes to mind I’ll tell ya. But anyway, we walked from Sun Street to Dunbar area four times a day. Because we didn’t carry lunch. We went back home and got lunch. And then come back to school. And then so we went to school in the morning, go back home, we get our lunch, and then come back and then we went back home.

	V:	Okay. And this bug— sorry. G:	That’s alright.

	V:	[Laughter] You said you went to—so Dunbar High School?



	G:	Before we went to Dunbar, we went to— why can’t I think of the school I went to? V:	Was William’s Academy still around? No.

	G:	We didn’t call it a academy. No, I just can’t think of the name of it now. If I do, I’ll tell you about it.

	V:	Okay.



	G:	William’s Academy?





	V:	Yes. That’s— yeah.



	G:	It might’ve been William’s Academy. It might have been William’s Academy. I’m trying to get this stuff straight in my head. I was young during that time. But I think it was William’s Academy. Before we went to Dunbar.

	V:	Okay. And you said you helped with the cooking and things like that. Like the ingredients and the produce, did you grow it all yourself or did you get some from the store—

	G:	Whatever we ate, most of it was things that was grown. Besides, you’d go around to the store and buy your rice and your beans, and things like that unless they were fresh beans. And so, that was part of our duty. To cook. To help Mama cook.

	V:	So then your brother that liked to fish, would he catch fish for the family and then you guys would have fish?

	G:	My brother and them caught fish. We caught fish because we love to go around to the seawall, and we caught fish that they— we’d have fish along with whatever we was having orcrabs, we cooked the crabs in the boiling pot. The same part we washed clothes in, during that time we boil our clothes in the boiling pot. And see, we had ten tubs. And we rinse them, and rubbed them in the ten tubs. And so the same pot we boiled clothes in, we cooked the crabs in. And I got news for you. The same pot was used to make soap. We made soap out of that same pot. My momma would save all the grease, the whole grease, and that’s what soap was made out of. The whole grease. Uh-huh. However she made it. But it was





made in that pot along with lye. During that time, they sold part of that lye. We call it lye. Uh-huh. And so, that was part of the ingredients to make the soap. And the substance that came from the soap, my mother would put it in a container, because that was part of what we boiled the clothes in.

	V:	Wow, that’s incredible. [Laughter] Well, it’s such a different way of growing up — G:	It’s a different world.

	V:	From how we are now. Okay. And now I want to ask too, because I know 1928 when you were born, 1930s, do you remember what segregation and racism was like when you were a child?

	G:	You know our neighbors? They were nice, but not nice … it was certain restrictions… you know, if the ball went in the neighbor’s yards, you know you had to make sure it was the ball that went in the neighbor’s yard that you was going to the neighbor’s yard to get. And as I say they were nice, they speak to you but it was a kind of distance there. So you kinda knew what to do, and what not to do. You were always told to say “Yes ma’am,” “No ma’am” “Thank you,” or whatever. When I say they were nice, I’m still trying to figure out now, in this age what do you call nice but not so nice. If they wanted to give you something, they would give it to you, but then it was kind of a feeling there whether it was real genuine. Whether they just did it because they felt you were different from them. They had a little bit more than we had. So we would just give to them. If you understanding what I’m saying.





	V:	Yeah, yeah. Because most of the people I’ve interviewed were people that grew up in the 1940s and things like that. And things seemed a little more cordial then, but I don’t really know. So would you say that they were friendly neighbors?

Because—



	G:	They never really got to be friendly. Yeah, because see, my mom worked for some of the neighbors. Yeah, because we live on Sutton Street, which runs north and south. And Thompson Street runs east and west. So on Thompson Street was where they lived, that way. And we could stand next to our house and look down where they lived at. But, my mama would go down and clean houses and things. They had children too. But there was a restriction there. You kind of know how far to go down that way. Unless you were going to the store. Unless we were going to down. Because we had to down Thompson Street to go uptown. So… they would speak, but as I say, there was a kind of, dividing line there.

	V:	It’s kind of like person was like— it’s like, that’s the other. G:	They are them and we are us.

	V:	Yeah.



	G:	Yes. Something like that.



	V:	Okay. Alright, I kind of get a sense of that then. Going off that then, obviously when you were going to high school then, you went to a segregated high school.

	G:	I didn’t go to a segregated high school.





	V:	Oh you didn’t?



	G:	No, no, we in the academy weren’t segregated. V:	Oh really?

	G:	We just had Black schools. V:	Oh okay.

	G:	During the time I came up, we just had Black schools. My children went to segregated schools. Yeah, they were one of the first ones who integrated Fort Myers High School. But me, I didn’t go to segregated schools. They were all Black. See, I got grown too soon. Because I had my first child at sixteen. So therefore, I went to work. By the time my children grew up, segregation came in on the same, they were just kinda at the age I think they were in ninth grade. And they went to segregated schools.

	V:	So then, because I’m trying to understand this, and so there were Black schools and segregated schools? Because the segregated schools I’m talking about was they kept Black students in one school and they put the White students in the other school.

	G:	That’s what I’m talking about, see.



	V:	I think I confused you with the terminology. G:	Okay. Segregated means they’re all Black.

	V:	Yeah, yeah. So they had one school for the Black students—





	G:	I went to all-Black. Yeah, I went to all-Black. V:	Yep. Okay.

	G:	The academy was all Black. And from there to Dunbar, it was all Black.



	V:	Yep. Were there any teachers or like the principal that had an impact on you? I know you said you started working when you were— actually, let me reassess that. So you started working when you were sixteen, then. You said, because you had your first child—

	G:	It was about when I was seventeen, when I came out. I left school. Okay. And during that time, when I thought I was grown, yes. And I came out of school, and it was all segregated during that time.

	V:	Okay.



	G:	Yeah.



	V:	And what were you doing for work at the time? G:	I work in private homes.

	V:	Oh okay.



	G:	Yeah. Private homes.



	V:	So were you like a domestic then? G:	Yeah.

	V:	Okay. And do you remember— so— I’m sorry, my words are all over the place today.





	G:	That’s alright, that’s alright.



V:  At the time, you said you needed to have business to go into parts of Fort Myers and things like that. How did that work? Would people just ask you on the street, or would a police officer or something ask you on the street? Like, “Why are you here? Why are you in this part?” And ask for proof, for why you’re there?

	G:	I didn’t encounter things like that. Because by me being raised in the community that I was raised in, I was raised to tend to my business. It was certain values that you were taught you didn’t bother other people’s things, and you tend to your business. You go do what you have to do. My father always made us conscious of going to jail.

	V:	Okay.



	G:	Of being encountered by cops. “If you do the right thing, you won’t have to worry about the other fella.” So we were kinda raised like that. Always conscious of that.

	V:	Okay. Do you know then, because you said your father talked about jail and always being on the right side and things like that, were there Black police officers that patrolled the Black community?

	G:	Yes, yes. We had Black police officers. We had two of them. They would always talk about across the tracks. Certain times of night, you weren’t allowed— where we lived across the tracks. Certain people living across the tracks where we lived across there. So we were always kinda conscious over what happened if certain things you do. Because at night, when I came up at night, at certain





times you in the house. Okay. As I got to be a teenager, you know you weren’t allowed to be out, doing certain things. So, I didn’t know too much about a lot of things that people get involved in. I didn’t know too much about that.

	V:	Okay. But did you know who the two police officers were? Because I know— G:	One of them was named— we always called him “Daddy Sanders.”

	V:	Oh okay. I think his nickname— Mack Daddy Sanders.



	G:	Uh-huh, yeah, Daddy Sanders. And the other one was Mr. Waldo. V:	Waldo, okay.

	G:	He was the rough one. V:	Alright.

	G:	Yeah, yeah. We was always afraid of him. V:	[Laughter]

	G:	Yeah.



	V:	Did they do the good cop bad cop thing? Is that— [laughter]



	G:	Yeah, Daddy Sanders, he was always the lenient one. Yeah. So, yeah, we had those two. And I was trying to think of the name of the other police officer who came along and became officer.

	V:	I know one of the other earlier ones, because I actually interviewed him myself from— I remember whether he patrolled in the [19]50s or early [19]60s. Coot Ferrell?





	G:	Oh that was before Coot Ferrell’s time. V:	Yeah, yeah.

	G:	That was before his time. Yeah, uh-huh, yeah. I can’t think of his name now, that other police officer that we had. But Coot Ferrell came along at a later time.

	V:	Yeah.



	G:	Yeah.



	V:	Okay. So moving away from that then, I want to ask about the religious community here in Fort Myers. Are you a religious woman?

	G:	Oh yeah. That’s all we did. Go to church and go to school.



	V:	So did you have Sunday clothes and things like that that you only left for church?



	G:	We had Sunday clothes, and we had our [Laughter] Sunday shoes, and then we had two pair [Laughter] [Inaudible 29:38]

	V:	Okay, then. What church did you — G:	Friendship Baptist.

	V:	Friendship Baptist, okay. And do you remember who the pastor was when you were growing up?

	G:	I came up on Reverend Eli Hamilton. V:	Okay.

	G:	And then after Reverend Eli Hamilton, then it was Isadore Edwards.





	V:	Okay. Now I’ve heard of Isadore Edwards, I haven’t heard of Eli Hamilton, so I want to ask about him first. Was Eli Hamilton Reverend when you were growing up then? And then—

	G:	Oh yes, that’s all we knew. Reverend Eli Hamilton. During that time, Friendship Church was on Orange Street. And it was just a wooden frame building. Uh-huh, yeah. During that time.

	V:	And do you remember the role of the church? What was the church to you and your family, but also to the community?

	G:	I didn’t understand that now.



	V:	Oh, so what purpose did this church serve? Was it for just prayer, or was it more of a community gathering?

	G:	It was church. Church. Our church was known as — that was the community church. And which they had other churches, they had two or three other churches, because we had St. John, Mt. Olive, and we had St. Paul. Okay? So we belong to the Baptist Church that was friendship. So my family belonged there, my daddy went to Mt. OIive. But our church was a church that we went on Sunday morning. We had Sunday school, we had church, we had evening BYPU. And then we had service again that night. During the week, we had prayer meeting, and then we had choir rehearsal. Yeah, so it was church as usual. But it was all Black church.





	V:	Yep. Okay then. Alright, with that, I want to ask more about Isadore Edwards then, because I haven’t met anyone yet that really was very familiar with him. Did you know Isadore Edwards personally?

	G:	He was my pastor.



	V:	Oh okay. And so, I want to ask then, about his work during— well nationally during the Civil Rights Movement. But, what was Isadore Edwards doing that kind of made him — they gave him the title of the father of the Civil Rights Movement in Fort Myers.

	G:	Because during that time, he and Davies— I was trying to think of Davies first name… [inaudible 33:30]. He and Davies, they mostly worked together, but his [inaudible 33:42]. But, he was very visible during the Civil Rights Movement in our town. And he presented himself in a way that it took most of the fear out of us. As church members, because he would always let us know what rights we had and what rights we didn’t have, and he was always the spokesman, and became the spokesman for the community mostly. During that time when whatever the upheaval was in our community.

	V:	Alright. So then, did he ever organize any kind of— I know he— can you tell me about the —because I know he organized the march.

	G:	I don’t ever know—I don’t know of him organizing any march. Or anything like that. I do know … I’m trying to think of how I want to say this. By being a member of Friendship Baptist Church, during that time, they had a group called the Council of Women. And that Council of Women, most are made up of White —





let me say it like this, council of churches. Council of churches. And they were made up mostly of Whites. But they had sprinkled the Blacks among them. And mostly it was pastors wives, or pastors. So I remember the time I was one of the persons who was part of sitting in on McCrory’s uptown, during that Civil Rights uproar.

	V:	Oh you participated in a sit-in?



	G:	I was one of those who was privileged to be a part of the sit-in at the time, because see, Black people couldn’t eat at the time at McCrory’s. And also, the Bradford Hotel wasn’t integrated. So I was one of those, by Mama Lewter. She was kind of a counselor to me, in ways much older than I was but, but then where she went, I kind of went along with her.

	V:	What was her name again? G:	Mary Lewter.

	V:	Okay. Do you remember how that was spelled? G:	Pardon?

	V:	How that was spelled. G:	M-A-R-Y; L-E-W-T-E-R.

	V:	L-E-W-T-E-R. Okay. I didn’t mean to interrupt you, it’s —



	G:	That’s alright. But I could go places with her along with that council of churches group. And so when they had the sit-in at the Bradford Hotel, integrating that





hotel, I was part of that group and I was a part of the group that did the sitting in at the counter at McCrory.

	V:	Okay.



	G:	Uh-huh. And so that was interesting to me, but the thing about it, I was so young, I really didn’t know. I’ve never been political. So it was interesting to be a part of it, but not to the point that you know, I would get down to the nitty gritty of all what was going on.

	V:	No I understand that. Okay. So, I just want to ask because this me trying to learn the history and everything, because I don’t know anything about this. What was this sit-in at McCrory’s then, was it something that was like— actually first, let me start first. What was the Council of Churches? [Laughter] Because I don’t know what the Council of Churches was.

	G:	That was a group of people who were ecumenical and they would be a part of many other churches in order to bring the churches together, to unify the churches that we could get along with each other. So that was what the Council of Churches was about. And then they ended up being Church Women United. And Mary Lewter became president of Church Women United, and so I got a chance to kinda be in and out with what was going on. And amazingly, even though this was going on, it was going on quietly. It wasn’t a big uproar or anything like that. But it worked. Yeah, it worked. Now, during the time Isadore was pastor of our church, and I guess sometime someone had already told you, I was one of the persons who was part of that snack house uptown.





	V:	I wasn’t told that.



	G:	No. Yeah. During the time of integration that Isadore would tell us we had the privilege of visiting certain restaurants and things like that. So one Sunday afternoon, we went to the snack house and ‘cause before you know, you couldn’t go in the front door. You had to go the bus stop. Bus station was in the back of the snack house. So if you wanted to go to the snack house to get some meat, you had to come through the bus station, and go through the little attic, and they had a little window that they would serve Blacks. But this Sunday afternoon, we went through the front door. And we sat down. And so, they just looked at us, and eventually, someone came over to us and that’s just what we were doing.

What did we want. And we told them we came for a little snack at the service. And so what he did was start sprinkling hot sauce and tomato juice all over us. And they had one back there, when we were sitting at the little booth tables, right from the booth tables, then they had the little aisle where you walk, and then they had a con over there for whoever wanna sit at the con. And they had this gentleman back there, I don’t know what kind of pot he was stirring, but we just sat there and then after they got to pouring that tomato juice, all that over. So we just got up and left. They’re not saying anything, because you didn’t know if you was gonna get that pot of whatever he was stirring thrown on you or what. So we just up and left.

	V:	Did people ever get violent with you and your friends?





	G:	Funny thing, they’ll never say anything, they just wanted to know why were we there. And we told them we just wanted to snack. And then he just picked up the hot sauce bottle and the ketchup bottle and started sprinkling.

	V:	[Laughter] That’s just it. That’s— G:	In other words, eat this.

	V:	Yeah, oh okay.



	G:	[Laughter] and they not saying anything, because you never know what that other one back there that was stirring that pot going to do.

	V:	Okay. Now I just want to ask one more question about the Council of Churches.



Was that a local thing, a county thing, a state thing?



	G:	When you talking about Fort Myers, it was a local thing. It was the Churches of the City.

	V:	Oh so it was like what you were saying, Mt. Olives, St. Johns—



	G:	Council of Churches. Now it wasn’t all of them. But those who wanted to emerge to bring a Baptist unity. That’s what they were doing. And then it merged into Church Women United.

	V:	And if you could help me too, because you said— the Council of Churches was both Black churches and White churches I’m imagining, because you were saying it also was a lot of White women.

	G:	Not so much of Black churches. It was mostly White churches. But as I said, they had a sprinkle of Black people, which was mostly pastors or pastors’ wives. Now,





you could attend— let me say it like this. As they went from church to church, because see, they went from church to church. And they included some of the Black churches. So, they were trying to integrate it, but it was a slow —kind of a slow thing. They weren’t moving too fast, because I guess people really had to have saw what was going on. You know, to keep down the confusion. Yeah, because then, you know, Blacks didn’t visit Whites, and Whites didn’t visit Blacks. So that’s why it was ecumenical to bring forth this unity among the people of the city.

	V:	Okay. So I want to also ask — I get the Council of Churches now, thank you for explaining that, because I didn’t know about that before. That’s something I want to look into now. But I want to talk about your friend Mary. Was she one of the people on the council then?

	G:	She is a pastor’s wife. V:	Okay.

	G:	She’s a pastor wife. Reverend Lewter, he was a missionary. V:	Okay.

	G:	Yeah. He also was a pastor. And so therefore, they had districts. So he had a certain district that he would be over, but yet in still he pastored the church. So I guess by him being in a position that he was in, she had a little kind of influence, you know, among the Council of Churches.

	V:	Okay. And she was your friend though. Like I imagine—





	G:	She belonged to Friendship Baptist Church too. V:	Yeah.

	G:	Uh-huh.



	V:	Okay. And so then — these bugs. Okay then. So you told me about the sit-in at G:	The what?

	V:	What was the sit-in that you were talking about before, with not the snack house, but—

	G:	The sit-in.



	V:	Yes, the sit-in at… it started with an M. G:	I didn’t understand that now.

	V:	What was the sit-in you were telling me about before? It started with an m.



McCreety? Mc—oh.



	G:	I’m not understanding you. You said sit-in. V:	Yes.

	G:	Okay. You were talking about the Bradford Hotel or what?



	V:	Well we can ask about— because I’m trying to learn what these things were.



Well, there was the sit-in at the Bradford—oh sorry, I’m just confusing. Okay. So, there were places in town that you were trying to desegregate. Or that you were protesting for.





	G:	Well as I said, during that time Black people were just— you had to go to town and go to certain shops. There were certain shops you weren’t allowed to go in. And so you just go to wherever you were going shopping. You just go to that place, and then you have to [door closes] hi there!

	V:	Hi Jared.



	G:	And then you would have to go back home. Yeah, you couldn’t loiter like you do now. You know, just walk, and then just kinda—be free to roam like you do now. That time you couldn’t do that. So as I said, Black people wasn’t allowed to stay at the Bradford Hotel, they wasn’t allowed to eat at the counter at McCrory’s, we would go to the store and buy, purchase, certain things, but after you did that, you had to leave. But you couldn’t go to the counter and get a drink, or sandwich or anything.

	V:	Okay. I’m trying to get this straight then. So then the sit-in at McCrory’s and stuff like that, that was still all organized by the Council of Churches.

	G:	That came from the Council of Churches V:	Okay, yep.

G:   Yeah. They would go to the counter. Not all of them now, just a group. Would go to the counter, and sit down, and they would always have one or two Blacks with them. And so it took a little while for it to kinda break, but eventually it did.

Sometimes we’d go and just sit there. And they wouldn’t serve us. But we’d sit there for a while, then we’d leave.





	V:	So you’re trying to make a point. G:	Um-hm.

	V:	Yeah.



	G:	Yeah. And then maybe another group would go another time, and sit in, so eventually they started. They would serve the Whites now, but then they would say “She is with me”. And so it was a kind of a coy thing. But they served me.

	V:	Oh okay.



	G:	Yeah.



	V:	Sorry for how long it took me to get around to all that stuff. You know my mind’s all over the place. Try to put this all together. But then, so did Isadore Edwards — did he work with the Council of Churches then? In organizing things or?

	G:	No, no, no, no, no. V:	No, no.

	G:	No, no, no. That’s completely different. He was our minister, but he always—also our advocate for the city.

	V:	Okay. So he was more of like a community voice than— G:	Yeah, he was a community voice.

	V:	Someone that organized things. Okay.



	G:	So he kinda held the community together. He got a lot of I guess friction in a lot of stuff that was going on. Because remember now, we talking about





segregation. And we weren’t allowed certain places and certain things was going on. So therefore, he was the voice.

	V:	Okay. So I want to ask then, because I know I asked you before you said he hadn’t organized a march. But I heard a story there was someone where there was a march that was planned in Fort Myers, but I was told that Snag Thompson, who was the sheriff had talked to Isadore and said that there was a group of people that said that if there a march, there was going to be violence. Do you know anything about that or no?

	G:	No. As I said, I wasn’t political. But I do know by him being our pastor. Even during that time, I think it was a curfew around seven o’clock. That we weren’t allowed on the streets or something like that. And see we had church. Isadore said “Oh no, we going to church”

	V:	Okay.



	G:	Yeah. So therefore, you know, the voice kind of allowed us to free up to do some things.

	V:	Now I want to ask then, because I know Isadore Edwards was pastor at the time. In 1971, I know I’m getting specific here, in 1971, there was an interracial couple where I believe it was a White man and a Black woman that were together and the woman was killed. And there was violence after that.

	G:	No see, I don’t know anything about that. V:	Getting too political?





	G:	No, as I said, I’m not political. Yeah. I wasn’t political, but there’s certain things I distanced myself from.

	V:	Okay. So then, I guess I’ll ask about what you do remember then, in terms of — I know you explained the sit-ins before. Were there any besides Mary, prominent people that helped organize with the Council of Churches, or did they have a de facto leader, or was it more they just did everything together?

	G:	It was just kind of doing everything together. That’s what the Council of Church is. It was about they kinda did everything together. Yeah.

	V:	But they didn’t have one voice for the Council of Churches, like Isadore Edwards was the voice of the community and the Council of Churches was—

G:  Oh no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I think it was a thing that you — it was just said they would work together. It was mentioned they would work together, but everybody was working for one cause. Yeah. So I got to guess… therefore they didn’t have friction or anything between them. They kinda just did things.

	V:	Okay. So with that then… hold on, I’m gonna look to my other questions, because I want to see what else we can get to. Now I want to ask about, oh well, never mind. Not in the realm of politics, so I know you said you’re not political, but I wanna know if you knew anything about Veronica Shoemaker that you could tell me? If you knew her personally or anything like that.

	G:	Her and I were just about the same age. Went to the same schools. She was a political person. She was very political. The political person. But now that wasn’t





my— and during the time oh, most of the integration and thing was going on, she wasn’t on that scene. No, she wasn’t on that scene. Marla— ooh!

	U:	Marvin Davies.



	G:	Is somebody with me? V:	Yeah it’s Jared.

	G:	What you said boy? U:	Marvin Davies.

	G:	Marvin Davies! I was trying to get that straightened out!



	U:	That’s okay! I got to go to work, I love you, beautiful as always. G:	Bless you. Yeah! Marvin Davies! It was him and Isadore.

	U:	[Inaudible 56:38], but I know there was something— I hate to jump in, but there’s something she said she’s not political, but she contributed. So when the lawsuit was filed to integrate the schools—

	G:	Come right here, get a chair and sit here! V:	Yeah, no you can definitely join in.

	U:	When the lawsuit was filed to integrate the schools, Ms. Golden filed on behalf of her daughter to be a part of the lawsuit to integrate the schools. So was it Luita if I’m not mistaken. So that’s a major political move. There’s a list of all of the plaintiffs who went along with Mr. Blalock and NAACP. They were the title. Which when we look at the other folks who fought on behalf, Ms. Golden’s name’s on





the list, now I’ll bring it over so you can see it, as one of the co-plaintiffs in the Blalock decision which integrated our schools. So you can’t get more active than that. So that’s—

	G:	Yeah. When said I’m not political, I guess I was in the midst of it, but not as people get involved and all this stuff. But in a way I was involved.

	V:	Okay. I didn’t know about that then. Okay. So I want to ask about the schools then.

	U:	That’s why I wanted to jump in. V:	Yeah, no definitely. This—

	U:	I know my people, I love them, so I want to make sure you get the right interview stuff.

	G:	Help a little out— U:	Okay.

	V:	Oh well I can— hold on, let me move the recorder so it’s more in the middle. We’ll do this. Alright. So then— I want to ask then— so let me ask about your kids then first. Because I know you had your first child you said, when you were sixteen or seventeen?

	G:	I was sixteen.



	V:	How many children did you have? G:	Eight.





V:  Eight? Okay. And so when they went to school, you were talking then— I know you mentioned how your children all went to obviously segregated schools and things like that.

G:  Well they first off gone to Dunbar. V:  Okay.

	G:	Yeah they began at Dunbar.



	V:	Okay. And what compelled you to join the lawsuit that started to desegregate the schools in Fort Myers?

	G:	I think it was ninth grade they were in, and when they opened up Fort Myers Senior High, and that they could go to Fort Myers Senior High. Well, I thought it was quite a privilege for them to go over to Fort Myers Senior High. I had three children to go there. So that’s where they went.

	V:	Okay. And so Fort Myers Senior High then, was that the first integrated school then? Or—?

	G:	As far as I know.



	U:	When they integrated all of the schools, they started. But Ms. Golden’s proximity, based on the neighborhood, that’s where they would have assigned her kids to go to Fort Myers after they closed Dunbar. So that’s how it started. So it was Ms. Ida Golden, Ms. Effie Smith, all ladies from Friendship, where Reverend Edwards was the pastor and the NAACP president. So encouraging the congregation to file a lawsuit in [19]64. So it took until [19]69 for it to be resolved.





	G:	Well see, now he telling you the details, see. I didn’t get into [laughter] all I know is there was our pastor, and he did a lot of paving the way to make it so that we could do what we did.

	V:	Okay. So then, actually, because they closed down Dunbar High School. How long was it closed for? What was the period, because I know obviously it reopened.

	U:	1969. It reopened in 2001.



	G:	And you know then, that’s when we went to school over — U:	Edison.

	G:	Yeah. Uh-huh. Yeah because see, I went back to school and graduated from Edison. So, I went to Edison and they went to Fort Myers High.

	V:	Okay. And I want to ask then, because I know a lot of Black schools typically were centers for the community, just like in the sense of the church, where it was a center of a lot of Black culture and a lot of unity at least among the citizens. Do you remember were people disappointed when they closed down Dunbar High School?

	G:	Well I think in a way, but not so much disappointed, because to us it was progress. Because you didn’t have access to over at Dunbar, you had over at Fort Myers Senior High. So therefore you were moving into a better area of learning, and so, not so disappointed.





	V:	Okay. And I don’t know if you know this, but did a lot of Black teachers at Dunbar High School then, were they also integrated in the system too?

	G:	I don’t think so.



	V:	Okay.



	G:	No I don’t think so.



	V:	Alright. So, well with that then, do you have any more questions? Because I’ve pretty much exhausted my list beyond that.

	U:	I would just say one question about Ms. Golden. She also worked in education. So she was at Franklin Park Elementary, which is the all-Black school, but then she went back when the school reopened. So she had an opportunity to be a part of the system to help educate another generation of kids.

	G:	Yes, when I [laughter] I told you I started working in private homes. Yeah, then my children grew. And I graduated from Dunbar. I also worked with the youth of the city under Jimmy Milburn, and I’m sitting under this thing just won’t come to my mind.

	U:	[Inaudible 1:02:55]?



	G:	City program? Also, the boys and girls school— U:	Girls school, yes ma’am.

	G:	I knew Jimmy Milburn. And then I went into the school system as an assistant teacher.





	V:	Okay. So okay, so then you started as an assistant teacher. What compelled you to become a teacher then?

	G:	I don’t know. Unless it was the point of I just like children. I believe in children’s education. Yeah. So I have this thing, I know I like encouraging children.

Education is so important to you, so if I can do something, and even though I came out of— when I first came out of school, I came out of ninth grade. And then I always liked math and English. And so, during that time, all Black teachers

— whatever they taught, you got it. And so, it was just certain things I knew about math and English that I could help at least the second, third, and fourth grades, and sometimes fifth graders. Yeah. I had that skill, and I just wanted to help them, because as math changed— you know, math change. And it was certain things in math, it was hard for them to comprehend. So if my encouragement of what I knew could help this child, to escalate him, so that’s one reason why I wanted to work in the system.

	V:	Okay. Well, the interview’s been going on for a little over an hour now.



	G:	But I did want to say that the Snack House interview, after they poured that hot sauce and ketchup all over us, then Isadore, we went home. And we called Isadore and told him what had happened to us, and then he went to the Snack House for dinner, but he didn’t get the same treatment that we got.

	V:	Oh really?



	G:	Unh-uh.



	V:	So why was that then?





	G:	Well I don’t know, you’ll have to answer that for me. I don’t know. But he didn’t get the same treatment.

	V:	Okay.



	G:	And so—



	V:	So he went to the Snack House after you guys then— G:	Yeah, he went to the Snack House after we went.

	V:	Hold on, I’m putting that in like— my little— I have a little quick notes page because I do plan on talking to Isadore, because I know he’s still— well, he’s in Fort Worth, Texas now. So I’ve gotta ask him about that then. Huh. Do you think—

	G:	And I just want to say this. The owner of the Snack House after he got to see what had happened to us. He wrote us a letter. I think it was five of us. And he wrote us a letter. And he did apologize and say how sorry he was that that happened, and he invited us to the Snack House for dinner. He did that.

	V:	Oh. Well I didn’t know about that either. So then, with the community and stuff that was most— in terms of desegregation and things like that, like with the way that the owner responded— was that because of public pressure or was it because of—

	G:	I cannot say whether it was public pressure or what, because I told you, I’m not political and I don’t know what transpired, but I do know the owner of the Snack





House. He wrote us a letter. And apologized to us, and invited us for a dinner at the White House.

V:  Okay. Huh. Alright then. So actually, I want to ask more about— I mean, Isadore Edwards receiving different treatment there. Do you think maybe because of his status in Fort Myers or?

	G:	I can’t answer that. All I know they didn’t respond to him like they responded to us.

	V:	Okay. Alright. Well that’s a lot more insightful then. Thank you. Was there anything else you wanted to say with the interview before I close it off?

	G:	No. It’s a privilege to talk to you about it.



	V:	Oh well it’s been a privilege to talk to you. I had no idea with being involved in the lawsuit and then also, I didn’t think I’d get to talk to someone who participated in the sit-ins.

	G:	Yep. I’ll be ninety years old in September. So I’ve been instrumental a long time, and I’ve seen a lot happen. But it’s a privilege to be just a citizen of Fort Myers.

	V:	Um-hm. Actually, if I may add, I had one little thing— set of questions with how people feel about Fort Myers now. Are you hopeful for Fort Myers in the future?

	G:	Oh yeah, very hopeful for it. Very hopeful. Because I think we are behind. We need to do a lot of catching up. And so things just goes on in the city, because I





think we’re kinda— it’s kinda like you’re left behind. And why aren’t you catching up? That’s a lot of things that goes on to the city.

	V:	Okay, well thank you so much Ida. Thank you for talking with me and giving me an hour of your time.

	G:	Yep.









[End of interview]



	Transcribed by:	Megan Sam, November 6, 2019



	Audit Edit by:	Kasamba Kokayi February 8, 2021, Sandra Romero, May 24, 2021 Final-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, May 24, 2021