AAHP 685; Watson; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 685 Sam Watson 7-7-2019

Interviewed by Marcus Chatfield on July 7, 2019 56 minutes | 14 pages



Abstract: Samuel Watson remembers his experiences as a black student at an all- black school in Pensacola, Florida. There, his teacher Mrs. James inspired his passion for both teaching and learning. He joined the band in high school and discovered a passion for music that he carried with him for the rest of his life. He continued his education at Florida A&M University, working a job at a resort cafeteria in Hot Springs, Virginia serving wealthy white patrons to put himself through college. Later, he completed a master's degree at Indiana University, then worked as a history teacher, administrator, and coach in Palm Beach county schools during integration in the 1970s. After retiring from his work as an educator in Palm Beach, Watson completed his doctoral degree at Florida Atlantic University.







Keywords: [education, segregation, band, basketball, Florida A&M, Indiana University, integration, black teachers, teacher, administrator, Palm Beach county, Escambia county, Pensacola, Hot Springs, Virginia, Bloomington]



AAHP 685

Interviewee: Sam Watson Interviewer: Marcus Chatfield Date: July 7, 2019

	C:	This is Marcus Chatfield, today is July 7, 2019, and I am here with-- W:	Samuel L. Watson.

	C:	Samuel L. Watson. And I’m here with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Project.



Mr. Watson, would you start with where you were born and when?



	W:	I was born in Pensacola, Florida, in 1938.



	C:	1938. Wow, wow. And so did you spend your early childhood here in Pensacola?



	W:	I spent all of my childhood—I was born in Pensacola, after being born here I spent my first year in some kind of public school. A Lutheran School, for the first grade. And I was very successful there. So my mother was told about the Lillie James School. So that’s how I arrived at Lillie James because the one thing I did in the Lutheran school was I cried every day. [Laughter] And its all because, I guess, I’m the baby of my family. There are eight kids in my family, and so I got seven siblings up ahead of me. And I was the last child to come along, my mother’s last child, and I was a mama’s boy, I didn’t wanna be with nobody else except with Mama. So they put me into this public school—Lutheran school—for my first year, and like I said all I did was cry. And later my sister got me out of there in a hurry and she said, “I think we’ll put you in some place else.” So it was so funny because the next year I was sent to Lillie James and it was like new life hit me. I guess I had gotten used to being away from my mother. And I got here and saw the layout of the land and saw what the rules were and the learning system and the people and the kids around me and I took off. And I haven’t looked back since. [Laughter] I haven’t cried a day since. And I guess it was me as an individual had to learn to be away from my mother, and that first year being





away from her I was sick, sick. But I guess I just somewhere along the line I couldn’t take what I learned at the school. But then I had to learn something because by the time I got to Mrs. James I was ready to learn. And I was open and they was pulling at me like this and like that and this—very organized. And I was eating it up and loving it every minute of it. And there was nothing they threw at me that I couldn’t do. And I went home raving every day to my mom. Raving from all the stuff I was learning.

	C:	Wow. And so it started there and just kept going? W:	Yes sir, yes sir.

	C:	So all your elementary years were--



	W:	First through four I was at Lillie James. I went to public school in fifth grade, and when I got to public school I was so ready for them it wasn’t even funny. I mean, the stuff they were doing was child’s work to me because I’d been trained properly in my four years at Lillie James. If you know what I mean. The background… the--

	C:	Foundation?



	W:	Foundation, that was the word I was looking for. They gave me a great foundation to build off and go forward from. And just to add to that—I hope I’m not talking too much—

	C:	No, no.



	W:	Just to add to that was the program and how it was organized, the school itself, and everybody was under the same rules. We all had the same rules. And that is there was no talking, if instruction time was going on, you had to listen and you





couldn’t be distracting another student in any way. And she would give you breaks, when it came time to take breaks, you could talk to your fellow person at the table and we sometimes would have games. And we also had the structure of, “Okay, it’s quiet time.” Well quiet time served two purposes, Mrs. James had to go next door, school was here and she was in a wheelchair, so she’s taking her in the wheelchair into her home next door. And every so often, we as kids, we thought, realized that what was the chance of leaving? And then later we figured out for ourselves, “Well you know she’s in a chair and she probably has to go to the bathroom just like everybody else.” And some of the other adults thought that the wheelchair she gets her legs wrapped so she goes to get a bandage re-wrapped and this kind of thing. By my only point, and you missed it, was the fact that when she left she would appoint another older student as a person to watch the class and take everybody name who’s talking. Well, I was smart enough not to talk and I knew when to talk but there was another guy in this class who didn’t quite like me. And then I found out why he didn’t like me. His little girlfriend liked me. [Laughter] And he didn’t like me but he was appointed— and by the way, his father was a prominent person in the community. His father was a doctor. Dr. Boyd, and he was Dr. Boyd’s son. Well Dr. Boyd was very well known, by Lillie James and everyone else in the community. Prominent man. So, his kids came here, all of them came here first before public school. But he was appointed to be one of those people to write the person’s name down that talks and turn it in to Lillie James so she can spank ‘em. If your name’s on that list when she gets back you got it coming. Okay, you’re gonna go to that table, she’s





gonna take that—I think she was left handed—she had a board about that wide and about that long, and you had to stretch across—she couldn’t reach everybody to swing at you so you had to stay in a certain spot—

	C:	Because she was in a wheelchair?



	W:	Yeah, a wheelchair. Okay, and she was injured. So she’d take the board, Pow!



And give you three good strikes across your buttocks. Pow! Pow! Now I knew what it what it felt like to go up there because I earned my way up there a couple times. But I also knew how to stay from up there, okay? [Laughter] And this guy who was assigned to take names of everybody talking while she went next door, took my name. “Samuel, you’re talking like back there.” I said, “No, sir, I’m not.” But the little girl was next to me, she was talking to me. The little girl that he liked. She was talking to me because she likes me, and he didn’t like that fact. So, he puts my name on the hit list. So, Mrs. James got back, “Samuel, your name is on my list.” I said, “Mrs. James, no ma’am!” She knew I knew better. She knew Sam Watson knew better than to get on the list because I’d been up there before on my own. So I knew how to stay from up there. Said, “Well, your names on the list. Come up and get your three.” So I just went up there across and Bang! Bang!

Bang! And I said, “Okay, now I got to get even some kind of way.” So I can’t get even in that building, so I called my man outside and I said “Listen, you put my name on the list today. And I know why you did it. I don’t like that. You accused me of something I didn’t do because your little honeybun was talking to me. If you can’t control the honeybun talking to me and you want to put my name on the list for talking, you’ve got one more time to do it.” I said, “I’m gonna take care





of you, okay?” Well, we had business taken care of on the way home from school, somebody’s gonna fight. And he didn’t put my name on the list so I didn’t have to carry out my sentence with him. But it made me very, very angry for the fact that I knew how to handle my business on keeping my mouth shut. When Lillie James says “It’s time to learn, be quiet while I’m gone,” I was quiet while she was gone. If I was gonna talk, it would be after she comes back because all she’s gonna tell me is, “Samuel, I see you talking?” “Yes ma’am.” “Well be quiet.” “Be quiet,” if you’re talking she says, “Be quiet.” Now, you have some choices.

You keep talking, you’re going to get your three whacks. So I knew the game I could play it well. So when he put my name on the list that was quiet disturbing to me.

	C:	Was he in your grade?



	W:	He was above me because she had every grade in the room. So he’s like—he’d be sixth because I was in fourth so he was a couple grades ahead of me.

	C:	Okay, that makes a big difference. I would think that fourth to sixth is a—



	W:	Big difference. But it didn’t make no difference to me. I got him around the corner, it wasn’t gonna make no difference to me, he knew that. Because you know how kids play all the time, know each other’s weakness and each other strengths. And I was about the size I am now—I’ve been a small guy all my life— but I can hold my own. And he’d seen me spat before, so he knew about that. I didn’t leave him long because he was telling lies on me, we’re gonna fight, it’s that simple.

	C:	Yeah. Did you try to explain it to Mrs. James?





	W:	That was out of the question. That’s out of the question. That was something else I’d known. If your name is on the list there’s no questions. Mrs. James, she put who she trusted in charge. And see, I knew the system. I knew, “He’s gonna get me hit because of some stuff I didn’t do, I’m quite deterred.” [Laughter] Because there is no going up and explaining to her why your name’s on the list. Person left in charge here will write the name of who was talking and you ain’t gonna explain that no kind of way. She’s gonna say, “No wait a minute you ain’t gonna get reprieve.” No, you get your own reprieve after you get out of here, if you’ve been falsely accused. See, I felt like he was going to do it to me because little honeybun was talking to me. [Laughter]

	C:	You knew at the time?



	W:	I knew that was coming, I knew, “This dude gonna put my name on the list today, and I’m gonna get in a fight.” And I said, he gonna pay a price if I hit this boy once, and I told him about it. He didn’t dare because knew when I said that to him that I meant what I was saying, I was gonna take care of him if my name ever appeared on another list because of him. And I said, “You get your honeybun straight—don’t worry about getting my name on the list, okay?”

	C:	But that was the last time that happened?



	W:	That was the last time that happened. That’s the last time I got a lick, and that’s because, like I said, I knew the system too good. And I stayed there for—I came in at around the first grade, I saw, you get caught talking, don’t talk while she’s gone because she doesn’t want nobody to get hurt. If you’re out of your seat, someone will get hurt if your out of your seat. Whatever you’ve got—You can’t go





to the bathroom, you can wait until she comes back. Because if you’ve got to go to that bathroom you better go before she leaves because once she leaves she don’t want you to be doing nothing that would ‘cause any disruption at the school. And she was a stickler for the rules, and I knew that, and I had no problem here. Once I found out the lay of the land I said, “Okay, let’s get this thing right.” Because my mother didn’t have to hit me that many times when I was a kid because I knew she was for real. If she says, “I’m gonna beat your butt,” she’s gonna beat your butt. [Laughter]

	C:	Was there a daily greeting? Did she come in and say, “Good morning class” and y’all say, “Good morning—

	W:	Yeah. And in addition to that there was a daily routine of how we started. We would sing the alphabets, you would sing the time tables, she put up—insurance companies would print them out—one through twelve, and you had to go from one all the way to twelve.

	C:	You sang it every day? W:	Every day.

	C:	Wow.



	W:	And you would know it from memory and I know it today, I’m eighty years old. C:	Do you remember the tune it goes with?

	W:	No, I don’t remember the tune. I don’t remember the tune, but all I remember was we had to sing our alphabets—we had to sing, and I guess if I scratch my head really hard I may remember but I don’t remember the tune. But we had to sing the alphabet and we sang the time tables. It had a tune but I can’t remember the





tune. Which was another unique thing about the school, that was a learning tool. The devotion was a learning tool. That’s what was another odd thing about her way of teaching, her way of learning. And we had the list of words that you had for your grade level, you had to master that list of words. And spell them and know what they meant. And that’s why all this good stuff I had, grades one through four, when I got to fifth grade, I was kissing them goodbye. I was always an A-B student all the way up through school I was in.

	C:	So that’s what you mean by a foundation?



	W:	Foundation. It really was that. And I got older to appreciate it. And when I got older, learned education, I was educated myself. Taught education and all that good stuff. And I really bragged, I really was proud of that fact that I had the opportunity to go to Lillie James’ school and get out of there alive with something on my plate. Because it was good. I told this to another person last time I came home, about the Lillie James school, and she was asking the same sort of questions that you are. And I told her that they were organized, it was successful, she had rules and regulations to follow, she had things that you had to know and had to learn. And reading, writing, and counting and all that kind of stuff was primary. When you left here, you had all the basics. You had to learn all the good stuff. Which was exactly what I did.

	C:	Yeah. Wow, and so you were reflecting on it throughout your life? W:	Exactly.

	C:	On that foundation.





	W:	On that foundation, exactly. And to this day, I’m knocking on this table and the wood, it’s all because of Mrs. James.

	C:	Wow.



	W:	And I’ve gone all the way to a doctoral degree. C:	Wow, and what is your doctoral degree in?

	W:	In administration, school and administration.



	C:	Wow, so we have the crying every day to the doctoral, and she really set the foundation for that whole path?

	W:	The whole path.



	C:	So how did you get from fourth grade here with Mrs. James to the—that’s a long path. Where did you go next?

	W:	Oh, I went to public school in the firth grade. Matter of fact, it was J. Lee Pickens was the school we eventually moved to, but Spencer Bibbs, which was around the corner here, this way. Closer to Georgia, Spencer Bibbs was my school, but Spencer Bibbs was crowded, and they sent me to a church around here on Blount, around the corner there off Seventh Avenue. There was a church there that we had class at that church. Until my school could be built, then once my school got built, then I went to J. Lee Pickens.

	C:	Okay.



	W:	Because Spencer Bibbs has been too small for the many kids that they had. So,



J. Lee Pickens took away a fourth of them.



	C:	Was that middle school?





	W:	Spencer Bibbs, and then J. Lee Pickens. So I went to fifth grade and sixth there, and I went to middle school, because high school then was seventh through twelfth. There was a school over on Strong Lane, Washington High School.

	C:	Okay.



	W:	That was Washington High School, though, it was a church before that. That was Washington High School. My Washington High began from seventh grade to tenth. Because tenth grade there was a new Washington on Texar, we called it “Texar” when I was a kid. And it was segregated when I went there. And the integrated school, they changed it to Texar. It was Texar when I was there as a kid. And I went to middle school, was in middle high at Washington over on A Street, grades seven through nine. And then tenth grade, I went to another

brand-new school, it was Washington High on Texar. So, ten, elven, twelve, I went to Washington High. When those other schools were a charm for me in terms of learning, because I had my background already in play. Whatever they wanted me to read, I could read. Whatever they wanted me to spell, I could spell. I carried around a little Black dictionary in my pocket everyday so if I didn’t know how to spell it I knew how to find it. That’s a lot of finding, I was finding a whole educational accomplishment between those three schools.

	C:	Were there any other significant teachers that came close to the impact that Mrs.



James had on your life?



	W:	Probably so, but in a different light. Because she gave me what I needed to know in order to see how to learn. It was precious. Like “Children, hone in on what I have you hone in on, and copy a step, and I’ve got another step for you once you





finish that step.” That kind of approach. Really set apart for me. It was a charm for me in middle school and high school was a charm.

	C:	Because she taught you how to learn?



	W:	Because she taught me how to attack a topic. That’s her. That lil dictionary I used to carry around—One day I was teaching school and had been teaching for a while, reflecting back on Lillie James again to somebody. I looked to one of my girls and found that the dictionary I used to carry around in high school. But yeah, that was part of my forte.

	C:	And so, did you live close to all these schools? How did you get to school every day?

	W:	Okay, Tarragona Cross was my place of residence. J. Lee Pickens is a block and a half away. To here it’s a little walk. But you’d walk every day, rain, snow or shine; you still had to walk down there. A lot of kids got dropped off by their parents, but my parents worked. And I had to get down there the best way I could. And that was walking, I’d bike or I’d walk.

	C:	And what kind of work were your parents doing?



W:  My father worked for Molden Motor company, which still exists, in the parts department. My mother was a self-beautician at a beauty parlor next to our house. And she worked the beauty parlor as a beautician.

C:   And growing up in Pensacola, what kind of stuff did you do in the summers? W:   Summers was real good for us. We kind of started a program called Escambia

County Recreation Department started a program where they hired the teachers who wanted to work over the summer in the Recreation programs hired them for





schools in different areas. J. Lee Pickens around the corner had one of those programs, that’s right around the corner, and played ball half the day and read half the day and go to spend time at the beach or go on another field trip someplace else. That’s what we did during the summertime.

	C:	You said reading half the day in the summertime, these were the days before the air conditioning?

	W:	Oh, yes sir. Right. You’d open the windows if it got too hot and let the air from outside come on in. And you dressed accordingly. Short pants, short shirts.

	C:	And so do you have any other really strong memories of middle school and high school that really stand out for you?

	W:	Yes, and one of the times was seventh grade, I had a fear for music, because my mother—I found this out later—she told me this herself when she was carrying me, but I didn’t know all that until later before when something happened to me with the band record. But anyway, my mother took me—I had a friend that taught music at his house. And I went to his house to take piano. And I learned the scales, both treble clef and bass clef, I learned the keys, I learned the sharp signals, I learned the flat signals, and I was fine with that until I got to seventh grade. I got to seventh grade and looked around there and I saw band instruments, and a band director and all these kids playing music. It excited me. So, I went back home and told my mother, “I like the saxophone.” She says, “Why the saxophone?” I said, “Because I want to play in the band. And I want to play the saxophone. I been watching TV and this guy blowing the sax, dancing all around and blowing the sax. I said, “This looks pretty good right there. I want to





do that.” My mother wasn’t the richest woman in the world, so she said, “Them things cost a lot of money.” I said, “Well I need to have one.” So she didn’t have enough money to buy me a sax. But she did buy me a B-flat clarinet, which was, matter of fact, it was one hundred twenty-five dollars as opposed to the sax being about three hundred dollars. So, I get the clarinet for Christmas, and I take the clarinet to the band director, I went to Booker T. Washington High School and it was Raymond Shephard. And Mr. Shepherd is gonna teach me how to play clarinet, like he teaches every other kid that came before him for every instrument in the band. Matter of fact, he started me out how he did everybody else. He found a hole in your timeline, “Samuel Watson, come here man I got something I need you to do. I’m gonna write out some music for you to study tonight and then you bring this back tomorrow to see if you can play it.” “Okay Mr. Shepherd.” So every day he would give me something to do, I would come back the next day and have it perfect. I was challenging him and doing so because he had other kids that were doing the same thing but they weren’t moving as fast and grasping as fast as I was. So he said, “Samuel, didn’t I just give that to you yesterday?” I said, “Yes sir, Mr. Shepherd.” He said, “Okay, let me get you something else man because you move real fast with this stuff.” And so he’d make me play something a little more difficult, pass it down for me. He’d say, “Take this home and bring it back tomorrow.” So I’d come back the next day, I’d mastered what he gave me to do, he’s looking at me all funny. He said, “Man, I don’t know about you. There’s something wrong with you. You’re catching this too fast.” So he says, “I’ll tell you what to do—” the band plays a sheet music and





they always got marches, he says, “Here, take this Stars and Stripes March and you take that horn and see what you can do with that and bring it back tomorrow.” I come back the next day I’ve hit it from the first note to the last. Then that’s when he got to come out of his chair. He said, “Man, I don’t know where you come from. How do you do this?” I said, “I don’t know sir, I just practice what you told me to do.” He said, “You’ve got a great ability man I don’t understand where this comes from. I tell you what you do—" he didn’t tell me what to do about learning music, but I was curious myself after he asked me the question. “What is it about you? What have you done in the past?” So I eased home and asked my mother, I said to her, “Mama, the band director says I got a great talent for music and it’s above any child that he’s seen.” I said, “Is there any reason for that?” And “Well, maybe, I was studying music when I was carrying you.”

	C:	Wow.



	W:	Remember that old story about reading to the baby and all that stuff? Back the next day I told him what my mother said, he said, “Ah-ha! I’ve heard about that.” All these studies where the people read to the babies and the others play music to the babies. But so, “I was carrying you when I was studying music,” because stuff is just popping. So when I start telling people about that today, they say “That’s correct, because the embryo is taking in everything coming from the mother.” To include the music lessons that she was taking. And I said, “Oh well I didn’t know. I just sit there and play it.” [Laughter] And that was an experience that I thought was quite pleasant to me because I had real apt for it and all that. After I learned one instrument, he found out he could give me a second





instrument for concert band. I played bass clarinet in concert band, and just clarinet for regular band. What I really wanted was that saxophone, but my mother couldn’t afford it. And I started messing with drums, you name it. If I touched it, I played it. Especially after I found out how to. That’s what he was good at, showing you how to. “This is what you do, this is how you do it, this is what you do, this is what you look for. Make sure you get those fingers down there real good,” and all that. He’s a real good teacher. And I was listening well, and I was coming back every day baffling him with my ability to play. But that’s about another time, that’s one of the times in school that I really felt good about myself. It gave me some self-esteem: “Here’s something I can do here real well.” I played from seventh through twelfth and every year I did well. After I got scholarship to Florida A&M Band, whenever I got to A&M I had a scholarship in music. But I, at the time, I loved music, but I didn’t want to play music as a job for the rest of my life. And that’s what I saw if I had majored in music, so I said, “Okay, is there any kind of way I can go and play in the band and enjoy that and not major in music?” And they said, “Yeah, you can. But it’s kind of difficult because most of the kids that play in the band, they want you to take music as a career.” So I got to A&M and I played a couple years as a music major, and then I left the band and went into my studies in economics and history.

	C:	Economic studies?



	W:	Economics and history was what my background was. And I just did band whenever I could and just as a hobby, you know? And I really liked it, loved it, and could do it. I had a good time doing it.





	C:	How many concerts a year did you have in the school year?



	W:	We had one small one and we went to, I think, what we called the District Concert. And if you did well at that you’d go to State. We went every year I was in the band, because our students were just that good to go every year. And you go through what they call sight-reading tests, give you a piece of music that you’ve never seen before—

	C:	For the whole band?



	W:	The whole band. And expect for you to play it. C:	Wow.

	W:	Now Shepherd was good at preparing us for that because he used to do it to us all the time. He’d walk in and say, “Hey man put this on your rack everybody get one.” And you’d look at your partner, see what key it’s in, see when I need to hit those notes, see the pattern [hums a tune]. So that’s the first time you had seen it. Because we knew as part of one of the programs, they give you when you get to the state tournament—not the state tournament, I was a basketball coach. [Laughter] When you’d get to state festival, they’d give you a band and split you, “Alright, clarinets take this, trumpets—” everybody would get their part, “Now let’s play.” And you’ve never seen it before, but you got to make it sound right, if its good though, you pass the requirements of getting an award in that exercise.

And we always did well in it because we came there really, we used to do it almost every day at school. So he trained us well in trying to get that sight- reading down. That’s the most difficult thing you can do there, everything else you can practice for. The concert piece we practice for, we could play that





backwards. I used to love that, I used to ask, “Let me direct! Let me direct!” So I became band captain, so that’s one of the things the band captain did. By senior year I could actually direct. Aw man, you talk about—that felt good! When I directed. And guess what I can’t help, right now? Can’t help it, I’m sitting in my church every Sunday and when the band and the music starts playing on the stage, I got to move something in my hand to follow it. Because it just does something to me, to hear that music, because I can follow the drums, I can follow the piano, tell you what it’s doing, da-da-da-da-da, and a lot of people don’t even know I got that background. I’m sitting there, doing it, and they don’t know—but a lot of people do. Say, “Oh yeah, he played in the band one time. Florida A&M band, high school band and everything else.” It just stays with you—with me, anyway.

	C:	Wow. And where did y’all travel for the competitions?



	W:	We went as far as—it was all Florida—between Pensacola and Miami. Wherever the place that had been picked out by the committee to do for that year. Miami hosted one year, Jacksonville hosted a year, Orlando went. Depends upon what the officials of the state where the contest gonna take place.

	C:	So, it’s all Florida, so White schools, Black schools—



	W:	All schools. Right, remember now, it’s still segregation. So it was all Black schools doing it in one place, and all White schools doing it in another.

	C:	That’s what I was getting at. Segregated—





	W:	Segregated also. I finished high school from a segregated school, which was right there on Taxar. After I left, they integrated. But while I was there it was segregated.

	C:	Yeah, so after you left, they integrated the contest, but when you were in it, the contest itself was segregated as well?

	W:	Segregated. But every Black director all the way from Pensacola to Miami. Met the directors all the way, and you met the kids from all the way from Pensacola to Miami. State tournament, state festival.

	C:	So, did you know that you were going to go to college all the way through—at what point did you decide to go to college?

	W:	Well me, I had the opportunity to and the will to want to go. The point for me was whether I would get enough money to go, because I’m dealing with two poor parents. So I’m trying to figure out ways to get scholarships, I’m trying to figure out ways to get work programs—I’m going, it’s just a matter of how I’m gonna get there. My parents, they couldn’t send me. But if it’s gonna be a student loan or what it’s gonna take to get me there, I’m going. But luckily, the good Father takes care of those who try to take care of themselves. Luckily, what was I? It was—I don’t know exactly where I was. Freshman year in college, I ran into a guy who I went to high school with, but I met him out on the basketball court, we were shooting around the balls. And he said, “Man, I got to go up north, I got to go wait some tables.” I said, “What you do up north? How you do that?” He said, “Well, it’s a big hotel and I work in the cafeteria as a waiter.” And he said, “But they start me out as a busboy, and the busboy helps the waiter do what he gonna do. Then





later on, they get his training down and he becomes a waiter himself. He said “Yeah, come on over man, I’ll take you up there with me.” I said, “Hold on I ain’t going nowhere until I find out what the lay of the land is before I leave here. You ain’t fixin’ to go take me up there and leave me stranded.” [Laughter] He said, “Well here’s the guy’s name and here’s his address.” Name was Captain Van. He said, “Write him and see if it’s okay for you to come.” I wrote Captain Van a note and said, “Captain William tells me youhave a program at work where you start out as a busboy and if I’m good enough I can graduate to a waiter and help the dining room.” He wrote me back and said, “Yes sir, we do. Please come, and we can see about getting you hired on, it’s no problem.”

	C:	Where was that?



	W:	This was in Hot Springs, Virginia. The Homestead, you may have heard of it. It’s way up in the mountains and it’s isolated, nothing but rich White folks go there. [Laughter] And they don’t hire anybody except Black help, one of those kinds of places. And I started out working as a busboy, and at the same time I’m going— I’ve got to leave come fall. I went the first time in the spring because I left high school and spent six months in the service. And joined the reserves, it was supposed to be two but that’s another story. So then that love for the next year, I went to work up at that hotel. I made plenty of money, made enough money to go to start college and go for a whole year. And waited for the summer and went back up there again. Went back up there the next summer and I had learned enough to become a waiter. So when I became a waiter, I was making big money from customers. It was that kind of a place; you served well and you were paid





well. And that’s how I worked my way all the way through college. And I made enough money to buy two cars, I bought one car one year—that one blue up— and I made enough money to pay my college stuff—expenses—and buy another car.

	C:	Wow, that’s really something. W:	That was something, yes sir.

	C:	What is it like to be a Black waiter for a bunch of rich White people?



	W:	During that time, it was getting an education. And meeting people who like you as a person, you may have been White, you may have been Black—I met one guy that was a Philadelphia lawyer, and he liked me so well, he says “Why don’t you go to school in Philadelphia? And I’ll make sure you get your law degree, and you can join my firm.” He made that offer to me right there in the dining room.

	C:	That must have been tempting!



W:  I would have gone; except I had just gotten married. I had just gotten married to my wife, who was my sweetheart in college, who I stayed with, and she passed, she passed in 1998. And that was my wife from when I first got married in [19]70 something and stayed married until she passed.

	C:	And she was your college sweetheart? W:	Mmhm, right.

	C:	And did she go with you to Virginia or did you get married after—



W:  Unh-uh. I got married after Virginia, right exactly. But I had to turn the guy down who wanted to me come to Philadelphia, I said, “I can’t do it man, I can’t come.” I





said, “I just got married, I just got married.” He said, “Well, I tried.” I said, “You sure made a good try. I sure wish I could come, I’ll tell you that.” He was serious, he would have done it for me.

	C:	Was that the late 1960s or?



	W:	Hold on, I’ll tell you when it was. It’s early, yeah because I finished school in [19]63.

	C:	Oh okay, right, right, right. Okay.



	W:	Matter of fact I started teaching for Palm Beach County in [19]64.



	C:	Okay and so that was after college. Four years of college, then you started teaching. And then grad school came after--?

	W:	Grad school, I did two sets of grad. I went to Indiana University during the summers. And I ended up going there, first of all, because a friend of mine at my first job I had in [19]64, Copper High School in Del Ray. He was going through the books for graduate school and saw that IU had the cheapest grad school in the nation for eleven dollars a point.

	C:	Where in Indiana? W:	Bloomington.

	C:	Wow.



	W:	That year had the cheapest grad school in the country. Eleven dollars a point. So three hours was close to thirty-three dollars.

	C:	Right.



	W:	Is that right? Okay. We went there and took us three courses. First summer there we took three courses, that was gonna be nine hours. So we’re all ninety-nine—





	C:	Yeah. A hundred dollars.



	W:	Oh, and guess what we did the next year? It started out at eleven dollars a point, the next year it went to twenty-two dollars a point. The next year it went to thirty- three dollars a point. And by the time we finished it was about fifty dollars a point. We started out at eleven, and we got out of there before it got too bad. The next year I think it went to ninety-nine. Because they had to get in line with the rest of the schools who had grad schools, because they were way below everybody else at the country. Because it started out at eleven—one of the reasons it was like that, Indiana had an education system had a law that the teachers, when they hired you, if you only had a bachelor’s degree you had to agree to go back to school to get a master’s degree. So in pushing that law they had to make it available to the poorest person in town, which was that eleven dollars a point.

That’s why the system had it that way, purposefully.



	C:	Okay, well that’s so fascinating. Yeah. And so did you just go in the summers?



You went every summer or--?



	W:	Every summer, every summer until I got the first graduate degree. And then I got the first master’s and I started to Florida Atlantic University in Boca Raton. Which is part of Palm Beach County, and it’s a good school in Palm Beach County. I’d take courses a block from my house. I didn’t even have to go to Boca Raton, I could just take extended courses because they were doing that for Palm Beach county teachers. Offering different courses up there for them to do graduate work. And so I started working on my next degree. And for the stopping for my specialty.





	C:	And that was in school administration?



	W:	That was school administration. And then I started working on a document, getting closer to my last year to retire—I wanted to retire—So I’d say, “Okay, I’ve got such and such more time left. If I can start school here I can get out of here, I can get my doctorate before I finish up my career in the school system.” So as luck would have it, they brought in a new superintendent and the job I was doing, the new superintendent didn’t think that—somebody told him that I wasn’t doing the best job possible at that job. But I never received any type of evaluation to that effect. Because very evaluation I had was always up there. But somebody wanted me out, didn’t like me and for some reason whatever I had done. But he tried to make me an offer to go to a girl’s alternative school. I said, “Do you know anything about me? Do you know me? You don’t know me, do you? You didn’t ask the right people about me for you to make that offer to me.” I said, “Do you know what I’ve done for this system for the last twenty-five, thirty years? The kind of jobs I have done and how well I did them?” I said, “You don’t know me. So no, I am not going.” I said, “Matter of fact, I have my resignation on your—” and I was principal of an alternative school at the time, but they wanted to send me to a girl’s alternative school out west somewhere thirty miles away. I said, “No, I’m not going. And you can’t find a better job for me over here on the coast.” And I said, “If you can’t, I’ll have my resignation on your desk tomorrow morning.” Now they pressured me because I was going to be leaving the next year anyway, so all I wanted was something decent to get my retirement the way I wanted it, my drop program and all that good stuff I was working on. And get my pennies right so I





could get out of there. But he forced my hand a year early, so that’s why I didn’t get the chance to finish up the doctoral program while I was working. I had already started on that, and I thought I’d stay another year out to finish up. But I did it, I got it. But I just had got it while I was retired, first year I was out retired.

	C:	Well, that is some hard work to be teaching and doing grad school.



	W:	Yes sir. It’s hard, you’re right. But what we tried to do, we tried to do it in summer.



When school’s out, that’s the best time. Because you don’t have to worry about teaching, you just have to be a student all of the year. But when you got kids to meet the next day and you’ve got to run to class that night, it’s a little rough. But I didn’t mind, I didn’t have nothing else to do but go to school at night and work during the day.

	C:	And were you teaching during integration?



	W:	Yeah. I was at a segregated school and the county decided, “Okay, we’re going to integrate these schools and integrate them right. We’re going to take some of the Black teachers from the all-Black school and sprinkle them around to different integrated schools. We’re going to integrate that all-Black school with some White teachers at the all-Black school. So all these Black teachers you’ve got there, they’re going to be taken out, some of them will be dispersed someplace else. So we’re going to integrate every school.” They did that like—I want to say, it’s going to be in the [19]70s when they did that. But it was a good, strong movement when they did it. And it was a good education movement at the end.

And it had to be the [19]70s—now I remember—late [19]70s. Because I remember what exact school I went to, I went to a school called Lakeworth High,





which was all White, had all White kids and they had a few Black kids and then had no Black teachers.

	C:	You said no Black teachers?



	W:	No Black teachers—I take that back, they had one for one year before I got there. And I come there, and I had a good time with the White kids asking me all kinds of crazy questions. “How do we know when you blush?” [Laughter]

	C:	They were asking you that?



	W:	Yeah. “Do you get sunburnt?” So every time they asked me one of those questions I said, “Okay Sam, take your time and pretend.” That’s what the key is, okay? So I knew I was an educator, I knew I was a good one. And I didn’t care what color the kid was, except when I saw what I was dealing with, I said, “Sam, just take your time, teach the kids, they don’t know any better. Slow down and teach them.” And said things to them. I took my watch off and said, “See that!

You ask me if I sunburn, yeah look at that. I’m light right here, so I burn out here and I’m light under there. That’s why I know I sunburn.” And they said, “Well how do we know when you blush?” “You ain’t gonna know when I’m blushing if you don’t know how to look for a Black man blushing!” [Laughter] Because the White kids are used to seeing red in the face, but I knew what I was dealing with. I said, “Sam, take your time and educate these kids. They ain’t seen this before.” And I knew it, based upon the questions. They had to have questions because I don’t know what kind of teachers they had before. And the one thing I asked was, “How many of you have had a Black teacher before? Ah, none of you, huh?

Okay, I want to let you know what I am.” I said, “But I’ll explain it all for you.” And





I kept things always on an nonthreatening level. For instance, they’d say something to me, I’d think it was crazy, I’d say, “Well, you let somebody tell you [inaudible]. How come I can’t be what the hell I want to be, huh?” [Laughter] They fall out laughing. I said, then they asked me something else, and I said, “I’m Italian. Anyway, why you ask me a crazy question? I’ll rock a dime on you—” that was an expression back then, at that time. They say, “I’ll drop a dime, I’ll call my boy and he’ll come beat you guys up.” I’d say, “I’ll pull right over here and drop a dime on you and one of my Italian buddies will take care of you.” And they’d say, “What’s your Italian name?” And I’d say, “Luigi, okay?” [Laughter] “You want to know, there you go, alright?” So, I’m thinking, I’m taking my time, I’m educating them, right? Telling them all kinds of crazy stuff like that. Low and behold I left that school and got called to another school, all-White again, as a basketball coach this time. They needed a basketball coach. Well, they needed a basketball coach who could pull Black kids and White kids together. The year before that, the school out there where I got transferred to had a White coach that had five little White kids over here play together, five Black players go on the other end of the court and play together. Duh! This is a team or what are we running here? So that school was looking for a coach. I wouldn’t apply, I was at another school, we had integrated our kids and our team. And our team enjoyed each other. This White kid, our coach, he didn’t know what he was. He’d come back here every week and he’d come to practice, and he could fly a play. But he just loved every Black player he’d seen in his life and he just imitated them all and he had enough talent to do it. And his name was Duke Smith, but my point





was, I had in the class I had a bunch of eleventh grader girls who were cheerleaders. And in that class, I says, “Okay, my name’s Luigi.” I said, “Next time y’all give me a prop and I’ll drop it down on you in a minute” So I just dropped that and left. And then I signed on—and then, that’s how I know they were paying attention. Here’s what happened. Remember, I got transferred to a school, so I got transferred to the other school, I got to come back and play them, because everybody had to play everybody. So when I came back, there was a big ole sign in the gym that said, “Welcome back Luigi.” [Laughter] I know exactly who did it! I said, “I’m gonna go back and find them, let me go find them.” It’s that group of White girls that I had the year before who were juniors in my history class, and when they heard the Luigi thing and they found out I got transferred, “Oh, he’ll come back as a coach! Oh we’re gonna get him, we’ll get him.” And they got me. [Laughter] With that big ole sign up in the gym, “Welcome back!” And then I said to myself, “Well at least they were listening” That was all I wanted to have them was to be listening at me and follow what I’m saying because I’m gonna get you educated. You don’t have to ask no more dumb questions about Black people. When we finished I’m gonna have you well-educated. And they just sopped it all up, sucked up everything I had to say. And it’s lovely, they obviously liked me the sign told me. But I had a good time with them, it was a good time.

	C:	Yeah I’m thinking you probably made an impression on them just like Mrs. James made on you.

	W:	Exactly. Exactly.



	C:	And what about the other teachers there?





	W:	White teachers?



	C:	Yeah, what was it like getting along with the other teachers?



	W:	It wasn’t a problem. They didn’t show it, I’m pretty sure under the skin but they didn’t take me home for dinner every day. They may have had a problem, you know. But it was so funny because the head coach at that school that I left from was White and I had to jump in—because somebody had pulled his team and said, “We want Sam Watson to apply.” But he kept asking me, “Sam, are you gonna apply for that job?” I said, “Why you keep pushing me to apply? You tired of me or something?” And I’m all over, “Sam, you know better than that.” And then he said something that made me think about, “Do I really want to do it?” He said “Know what, if you don’t ever let anybody know what you think, how good you think you are yourself, they’ll never know.” I said, “That makes sense, they already have my name.” I said, “For that, I will apply and see what happens.”





[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Abby Lovett



	Audit Edited by:	Sandra Romero, May 20, 2021 Final-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, May 20, 2021