AAHP 039; McRae; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 038 Johncyna McRae African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on February 7, 2009 4 minutes | 4 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Johncyna McRae discusses her experience of being one of the first African American students at the University of Florida at the Celebrate the Firsts Weekend Gala. She was one of two Black undergraduates to attend the University of Florida, the other student being her roommate, Rose Green. At first, she questioned her decision to go to UF instead of FAMU, but eventually changed her mind. Her support system consisted of her mother’s friends who lived in the community, as well as Reverend T. A. Wright.





Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida; Celebrate the Firsts; Integration]















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 039

Interviewee: Johncyna Williams McRae Interviewer: Marna Weston

Date: February 7, 2009



	W:	I’m speaking with Johncyna Williams McRae. It’s February 7th, 2009, at Emerson Hall at the University of Florida, where we’re at Celebrating the Firsts, the fifty- year anniversary of integration at the University of Florida, having a weekend gala. I thank you so much for taking the time to speak with me for a moment.

What are your reflections on tonight—this event?



	M:	It’s sort of overwhelming. When I think back, you think, “Well, nobody cares.” You know, I went to school, I graduated, I got a job, which is what my parents had hoped that I would do. And at the time, you don’t think you’re doing anything extraordinary. And then, as time goes on, you just go about your business— about your business of living—and you just figure, “Well, nobody cared what you did back then.” But this is so nice to realize that somebody did care, and something thought enough to invite me to come back—to find me and invite me to come back. So I think this is wonderful.

	W:	Now, where did we find did we find you?



	M:	They found me in Bradenton, Florida. Just where I grew up, where I was born and raised; I didn’t get that far away. When I, after I got my degree from the University of Florida, I taught school in Bradenton, Florida.

	W:	Now, what area did you get your degree in?



	M:	In education, 1966. I was freshman in 1962, and at the time there were no freshmen at the University of Florida. My roommate and I were the first undergraduates. There had been graduate students at the University of Florida, but no undergraduates. So, my roommate and I were the first undergraduates.





	W:	What was your roommate’s name? M:	Her name Rose Green.

	W:	And where was she from?



	M:	And she was from Daytona Beach, Florida. Her father was president of the Volusia County Community College. And back in those days, they even had African American community colleges. In my area, it was St. Petersburg—Gibbs Junior College. These were African American junior colleges at the time. So, Rose and I were roommates; you know, they had to put two of us together. So, we lived on campus; we were the first African Americans to live on campus.

	W:	Where’d you live?



	M:	We lived in Mallory Hall, did the whole freshman orientation bit. It pays to be a little naïve; didn’t know we were doing anything extraordinary, I remember getting here and thinking, “Where are the other Black students?” You know, you kind of look around, and all of my friends were at Florida A&M, where after about a month, thinking, “Uh-oh, I made the wrong choice!” [Laughter] But as time went on, we lived—I lived in the dorm all four years here. When I tell my kids that, they think, “Oh, you poor thing!” But that’s what we did back then.

	W:	What was your support system like—you know, faculty, staff, or people in the community?

	M:	People in the community. My mother had friends—my mother was from Lake City, Florida, which is north of Gainesville.

	W:	What’s her name?





	M:	Her name was Annie Lucy Williams—Annie Lucy Combs Williams, of the Combses of Lake City, Florida. And she already had other—she was an educator in Manatee County, in Bradenton, Florida. In fact, she taught school for forty- three years in Bradenton, Florida. So, she had a group of friends who were teachers in Gainesville. So, she took me to see them, the Nealys, Otha Nealy, the Wrights… oh, the—

	W:	Reverend T.A. Wright?



	M:	Yes—who spoke today. And she just kind of said, “This is my daughter. I’m leaving her here, you guys kind of take of her.” And the community did, the Black community. They made sure we went to get our hair done; some people would come pick us up and take us there. Clara Wright [Griffin?] was the hairdresser there, and she made sure our hair looked good. We went to church in the community. So, our support system really was the community; they kind of embraced us. Kind of felt like we were their own, because they knew our parents. A lot of the educators—Hightowers, the Hightowers were some of my mother’s friends. So, she already had friends here. Then there were the Lake City relatives who weren’t that far, so we had that support system, not a lot—

[End of recording]





	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, February 21, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019