AAHP 704; Thomas; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 704 Eddie Thomas 7-12-2019 Interviewed by Don Obrist on July 12, 2019 69 minutes | 37 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Korean War veteran Eddie Thomas shares his life story with interviewer Don Obrist. Thomas was born in Alapaha, Georgia on August 16, 1933. His family moved to Ocilla, Georgia, where he lived until he joined the Army in 1952 as a teenager. Thomas reflects that he saw the military as an opportunity to advance socioeconomically while bettering himself in the process. After an orientation in Fort Jackson, South Carolina, Thomas transferred to Maryland for basic training before heading to Atlanta for advanced training in motor vehicle ordinance. Once his training was completed, he was posted in Atlanta for the duration of his Army service. In June of 1954, he joined the Air Force and was stationed at Tyndall AFB in Panama City, Florida before being sent to Kinpo, Korea. In Korea, Thomas served as an aero-policeman, commanding the K-9 unit and earning a promotion to airman second class. After ending his tour of duty, Thomas was assigned to Greenville Air Force Base in Mississippi in 1956. He recalls the racial turmoil which ensued after fifteen-year-old Emmet Till’s murder. Next, he went to Goodfellow AFB in Texas, where he was falsely accused of sexual misconduct by a White colleague’s wife, resulting in his general discharge on an honorable condition. After leaving the Air Force in 1958, Thomas used his GI Bill to take classes in carpentry and masonry, an education which set the foundation for his self- employment as a house painter and carpenter from 1971 to 2017. During the period from 1983 to 2000, Thomas worked undercover with Florida Department of Law Enforcement to identify and arrest individuals involved in the illicit drug trade. Thomas also served as the second Black Deputy Sheriff in the history of Tifton, Georgia.

Currently, he is involved in his local chapter of American Legion and DFW, working to support his fellow veterans by planning events and attending meetings.



Keywords: [Georgia, Korean War, Great Depression, police, segregation, military, Emmet Till, Air Force, Army, civil rights, veteran]



AAHP 704

Interviewee: Eddie Thomas Interviewer: Don Obrist Date: July 12, 2019



	O:	Good morning this is Don Obrist, University of Florida, Samuel Proctor Oral History Department and today’s date is July 12th, 2019 and today I’m here with a Korean War veteran Eddie Thomas, here in Gainesville, Florida. Eddie for the transcriber could you state your name and then spell your name?

	T:	Eddie L. Thomas. E-D-D-I-E L T-H-O-M-A-S.



	O:	Okay thank you and where were you born? T:	A little town called Alapaha, Georgia.

	O:	What’s the name of it? T:	Alapaha, A-L-A-P-H-A.

O:  Okay and where is that in Georgia? T:  You know where Tifton, Georgia is? O:  Not really.

	T:	Douglas or Valdosta? O:	Okay, yes, Valdosta.

	T:	We sit on east of Valdosta by maybe sixty, seventy miles. O:	Okay, okay, and what is your birth date?

	T:	8th month, 16th day, 33rd year. August 16th, 1933.



	O:	1933 okay. So you were born in a difficult time. You were born in the midst of the depression.

	T:	Oh yeah.



	O:	Yes, yes so first of all let me ask you about your family. Are your— any siblings any brothers or sisters?





	T:	Yeah it was nine of us all from the beginning now it’s only three left. Myself, a brother, and a sister.

	O:	And where do they live?



	T:	My sister live here with me. O:	Okay.

	T:	My brother live in Jacksonville. O:	Okay do you see him at all?

	T:	Well I hadn’t seen him in a quite a while now but we talked on the phone. O:	Okay so born on 1933, midst of the depression, family of nine you said? T:	Right.

	O:	The children, nine children? T:	Nine children.

	O:	Okay and your mom and dad were alive at the time right? I mean obviously your mother was but your dad. Tell me what’s your- of course 1933 your probably your first memories were of when you were four or five years old, six years old. Tell me what life was like?

	T:	Don’t know too much about it then being that age you know after I grew up I moved in another part of Georgia called Ocilla when I was about seven years old. Raised up there mostly in Ocilla and until I got seventeen and then joined the military. After joining the military then when I got discharged I came back to Ocilla. From there I migrated to Tifton, Georgia when [19]65 I was the second Black Deputy Sheriff in [19]65.

	O:	You were the what now?





	T:	Second Black Deputy Sheriff in [19]65.



	O:	Okay we’re kind of getting ahead here you’ve got some interesting stories that are- where’d you go to high school? Where’d you go to school?

	T:	In Ocilla, Georgia.



	O:	Okay and what was school like at the time? What kind of school did you go to?



	T:	Well we went in a church had about four or five different grades in that church and maybe first, second, third, or fourth, something like that grades. Then I left from there went over to the regular school where I kept on until I got to the tenth grade. That’s when I dropped out and joined the military.

	O:	Okay now let me ask you about what schooling was like during that era. The church where you went to school there was a segregated school?

	T:	No, yes segregated yes.



	O:	It was segregated yeah and the schools in Georgia at the time were segregated? T:	Yes.

	O:	So you said when you went from the school that was in the church to the regular school that was- was that considered a- was it an all-Black school or how did it work? I’m naïve about this so you tell me.

	T:	It was still all-Black. O:	It was.

	T:	Yes.



	O:	Okay. So in seven- what was it like in school? Did you enjoy school or?



	T:	Oh I enjoyed it very much. Back then all it was was division, subtraction, and addition all this other stuff it wasn’t out at that time see. That was the three major





things for us. [inaudible at 5:10] addition, division, and subtraction, that was three main things we was taught back in those days.

	O:	Okay, okay and reading? T:	Yes reading.

	O:	And reading right.



	T:	History and things of that nature.



	O:	So you did a lot of work on that, they drilled you on that? T:	Right.

	O:	What about some other subjects they ever talk about, history and English literature or books, things of that sort?

	T:	They wasn’t teaching much of that back in those days.



	O:	They weren’t. Do you think it was because of the type of school or was- there were doing all they could to teach what they could or?

	T:	I think so, the last part. They was teaching what they had availability of thing to teach.

	O:	How’d you feel about that? Or at that the time you didn’t feel that’s the way it is?



	T:	Oh at that time it’s just- I thought it was great because it’s the only thing around at the time you see?

	O:	Okay.



	T:	In that area anyway it might be something different in a different area. O:	What you’re thinking of that now when you look back at it?

	T:	Well I wish it could have been better but at the time we had to sacrifice what was available. So I took advantage of that.





	O:	Took advantage of what you had at the time. So you were seventeen when you joined the military. Why did you join the military?

	T:	Well there was a headline on the radio about Korea the- we really didn’t know much about Korea we thought it was something that’d be exciting to do but no it was as hard as any war over there see. So we just wanted to join and about six of us got together and took the test and all. We all joined at the same time and went into the Army and really enjoyed that because it’s something different.

Something that I never had before. I’ve been around so you know I just enjoyed it.

	O:	Was it a way to escape the area in which you were living? Did you look at it that way?

	T:	Yes that’s a good way to look at. In fact, it bettered myself. I joined the military because you were exposed to a lot of different things that could help you advance in life.

	O:	Sure, Sure, a lot of different experiences, a lot of different people, travel, all that that kind of thing. So tell me if I’m wrong or correct me but you looked upon it as a way to better yourself? Something that was different, exciting, and to get out of the area in which you were living?

	T:	Well I wanted to better myself and get the experience of traveling and seeing a different part of the country and other peoples. Just going and having a good time. See that was in the head then but once you got in there and you realized that you had to be thorough and be ready for- just like the rules and regulations





they had, we all thought it was bad but at the time it was very important because at some time or another it could save your life.

	O:	Right, right okay. So you said you joined in 1950? T:	[19]51.

	O:	Oh [19]51 I’m sorry. T:	I’m sorry [19]52.

	O:	[19]52, 1952. Okay so you were almost nineteen or you were nineteen. 1933 is when you were born.

	T:	Yeah.



	O:	So you were nineteen when you joined the military. Now let me ask you, did you think the six of you would go through all this together?

	T:	Well that’s what we had planned but we kind of dipped once we got there.



Everybody went their separate ways in different posts. I wound up going to Fort Jackson, South Carolina for orientation. After that I left and went to [inaudible at 9:35]

	O:	Where did you take your basic training? In South Carolina?



	T:	No went there to get inducted I guess into- on the roster then I was shipped to Maryland. [inaudible at 9:51] outside of Baltimore.

	O:	Okay did you expect that? T:	No.

	O:	No. What was the- when you went to was it Fort Jackson, South Carolina-



	T:	That was the time at the area I in when you join you went to Fort Jackson and that’s where you got your assignment where they go take their basic training at.





	O:	Okay so were you guys all surprised the six of you? You were together then right, at the orientation area? Were you together?

	T:	No they-



	O:	Even there?



	T:	Yeah right soon-



	O:	Even before they- how’d you feel about that?



	T:	Well kind of lost really because you knew all those guys most your life then afterwards you on your own. You gotta make new friends and new things. But it worked out good.

	O:	You think probably in the end it was probably better? T:	Oh yeah.

	O:	So then you went to Maryland? T:	Yeah.

	O:	For basic training? T:	Basic training.

	O:	What was your basic- okay- the regular basic training in the Army right? The eight weeks?

	T:	No it’s sixteen weeks back in those days. O:	Was the basic training okay-

	T:	That’s where you learn about your rifles, [inaudible at 11:14] how to survive and all that stuff.

	O:	Okay let me see if I can get this thing straight. When I went to basic training we had eight weeks of basic training they called it. Then they shipped us out for





another twelve to sixteen weeks for your advanced training. Are you talking sixteen weeks of basic and the advanced training?

	T:	Sixteen weeks of basic training then went to- shipped to Atlanta for AIT. O:	Oh AIT okay. Sixteen weeks of basic training.

	T:	That’s right.



	O:	That must’ve been joyful.



	T:	We had a guy, our NCOC’s Sergeant in charge he was an ex-Marine and everything you did wrong you had to give him twenty-five to fifty pushups right then. Otherwise when we got out of basic training we were well trained.

	O:	And in great shape. T:	Oh yeah.

	O:	So from Maryland after your sixteen weeks then you said you went to Atlanta? T:	Atlanta.

	O:	Okay and again what was your AIT? T:	Ordinance.

	O:	Ordinance, okay and what kind of ordinance are you talking? All kinds or artillery ordinance or?

	T:	Well mostly motor vehicle. O:	You talking motor pool or?

	T:	You were assigned to a unit where they had trucks in there maybe you had to haul stuff to different places. I mean it’s like somebody needs something or it’s here in Atlanta and you gotta go cross the base with it and it just things orf that nature.





O:   Okay what kind of trucks did you drive? Deuce and a half?



T:   Deuce and a half. Well we called them deuce and a quarter back in those days.



O:  My day it was deuce and a half. Whether it’s the same truck or not I don’t know but maybe they added more weight to it. Okay so how many weeks did you do that?

T:   Another sixteen weeks.



	O:	Another sixteen weeks and what was that tour like? Was it okay did you like or did you not like it?

	T:	It was good I don’t know if you know this recording artist. You’ve ever heard of Gladys Knight?

	O:	Yes of course.



	T:	She was at- I witnessed her- she had a- I can’t think of nothing today- anyway she had a contest and she won, that’s when she started recording in 1952.

	O:	Okay.



	T:	Talent show that’s what it was.



	O:	So you saw her before anyone- many people knew who she was. T:	Before she got famous, yes.

	O:	What did you think when you saw her I mean when she won that contest? Did you say yes she should’ve won or was it like how did she win?

	T:	Well she was the greatest you see. O:	She was great it was pretty obvious.

	T:	And when I was in the- backing up a minute- when I was in Maryland I got a chance to meet Lena Horne and her daughter.





	O:	How did that happen?



	T:	Well we went on a what you call pass, weekend pass and we got a chance to meet her and her daughter.

	O:	Okay well that was exciting. Was she famous then? T:	Oh yeah.

	O:	She was in sound- T:	Very famous.

	O:	Very famous yeah so nineteen weeks driving the trucks and driving whatever they need, supplies, orbits, things of that sort.

	T:	I think the best way to word that is motor vehicle.



	O:	Yeah okay so were you surprised that you got that AIT, that assignment? You didn’t have any idea right?

	T:	Well at that time I wasn’t thinking too much I was young exciting so wherever they put I tried to make the best of it.

	O:	So I guess that was pretty good AIT to get I mean it was better than maybe infantry, rifle room?

	T:	Yeah better than that. When that nine come, M-1- see that’s why I learned so much about the M-1’s. The guys that are Korean War veterans, some of them know about that M-1 a lot of them don’t. Just like Don Cherry you don’t know anything about M-1 and a few more of them you see because when they got- Don Cherry was in at the time but he was in headquarters, click typers or whatever. But a lot of guys, Terry, I’m [inaudible at 16:33] color guard you see





with the rifles then you got wrong cargo and somebody as we pick [inaudible at 16:42] but Ron and I are the two main ones on the color guard team.

	O:	The M-1? He showed me the M-1 when I interviewed him. That is one heavy rifle.



	T:	Nine pounds and believe or not up until four years ago- three or four years ago we used to march the University of Florida homecoming parade and carrying that nine pound rifle two and a half miles man its-

	O:	Oh yeah absolutely.



	T:	Cause you know where it ended up there on Main Street down on 2nd that’s was- O:	That was a workout. Then they went to the M-14 right that was the-

	T:	M-14 attacker M-16-



	O:	And then the M-16 yeah.



	T:	I don’t know too much about those because in my period of time in the service it was always M-1 and car beating. Those was the two rifles when I was in there.

	O:	Okay, so after your sixteen weeks there did they give you testing? Did you have to do tests like a driver’s test or anything like that for your AIT?

	T:	Oh yeah you have to go to classes and all, make sure you qualify to handle that machine because that’s a lot of money that deuce and a quarter. They ain’t wanna just throw anybody in there because you have transmission they care about and everything you know. So they trained you very good for that.

	O:	So once you got done with that duty where’d you go then?



	T:	I stayed around Atlanta until I got through. I was just- I became permanent base in Atlanta.

	O:	Was that a surprise to you?





	T:	Yeah, cause Korea was very hot then. O:	Absolutely.

	T:	I volunteered for Korea one time but the lieutenant looked at me, he laughed, he said you don’t want to go to Korea. I don’t if that kept me out or not but he was right I didn’t need to go to Korea at that time.

	O:	You found out as you got a little wiser, older. So you continued to do the same job you were doing or did you do something different?

	T:	You mean?



	O:	Once you got permanent based. T:	Same job.

	O:	Same job, that’s highly unusual. Now what about your buddies?



	T:	I lost contact with them, once we joined I lost contact until we went on leave back home or something and I see one every now and then but other than we completely lost contact with each other.

	O:	Well that’s not unusual. What were some- do you remember some of the assignments that they had?

	T:	Not really.



	O:	How long did you stay in the military?



	T:	I did six years in all, two in the Army and four in the Air Force.



	O:	Oh okay so let’s see here, you join the Army in [19]52 1952 and then you left the Army in 1954? Is that right?

	T:	Yes.



	O:	Two years. Tell me about your Air Force tour how did that all happen?





	T:	Well I got I guess what you call bored and I went out and joined the Air Force. O:	Was this after you came home?

	T:	Yeah. In June of [19]54.



	O:	This is kind of like once you see the lights of the big city- T:	You’re gonna get excited yeah.

	O:	So 1954 you come back you weren’t happy with what was going on, you were born you join the Air Force?

	T:	Join the Air Force. June of [19]54 I joined the Air Force and I was sent to [inaudible at 21:00] San Antonio, Texas. That’s where I did basic training and after that-

	O:	Well you had a really advantage having been in the military.



	T:	Oh yeah because I immediately start off as a squad leader and a platoon guy.



Okay after that, after basic training in Texas I was set to Tyndall Air Force base, Florida

	O:	Tyndall?



	T:	Yeah.



	O:	Tyndall, okay.



	T:	Right outside was Panama City somewhere I think it was Panama City area. Any way myself and another guy we was shooting pool one day and a guy walked in a said I need two volunteer, my hand went up and this guy’s hand went up. He told him said okay I want you to go up to the [inaudible at 21:59] start taking shots. Shots for what? Said you’re going to Germany. He looks at me and says I want you to go inside taking shots also. I said for what now? Said you going to





Korea. So that’s how I got in Korea. So took the shots I came home on leave and December [29]54 that’s when I left Georgia, went to California and caught the plane, went to Korea.

	O:	Now what was your specialty in the Air Force? T:	I was policeman, an aero policeman.

	O:	Okay, is that what you wanted to do or again you just got assigned that? T:	I just got assigned.

	O:	You got assigned to okay.



	T:	Okay my duties in Korea now I was a- I got promoted to airmen second class was a two striper and a three striper he was an NCOIC on the base every night. Two stripers, me, I was in charge of permanent control plus the K-9 unit. I had twelve German Shepherds I looked over at night. Okay my duties were I had two other drivers, they post four guards, we post four guards each and we go back at a certain time to relieve them to go to chow and afterwards I just rolled around the rest of the night in a Jeep to make sure everything. That whole base was put on my shoulder every night from seven- from eleven to seven.

	O:	Where was this? In Korea? T:	Kinpo, Korea

	O:	Where was it?



	T:	Kinpo.



	O:	Do you know how to spell that? T:	K-I-N-P-O.

	O:	And where is it?





	T:	It’s twenty to thirty miles out of Seoul, Korea. O:	North, south, east, west.

	T:	Jesus. I couldn’t really tell you.



	O:	It couldn’t really be north because if it was north you’d be [inaudible at 24:16] T:	Has to be probably west.

	O:	Okay and what kind of base was it?



	T:	[inaudible at 24:29] see that was the place where all the soldiers up on the front [inaudible at 24:35]

	O:	And then they fly them out? Right okay. When you first got to Korea what was your impression what did you- cause you got there in 5- December [19]54 the war had- the armistice had been signed in July of [19]53 so what kind of condition did you see? Conditions.

	T:	Everything was still torn up and we called them [inaudible at 25:03] as a plane fly over maybe every seven days or whatever when they fly we had to get out of the beds and go in the plateau because we didn’t know what kind of plane it was. So eventually shot him down but we come better check Charlie always did it at night.

	O:	Really it was just to intimidate?



	T:	There was still some hot spots in Korea even at [19]54 1954. I don’t know if you’ve ever seen [inaudible at 25:40] until you’ve seen little Koreans, they’re short peoples. Over there they had some kind of [inaudible at 25:48] that they carry on their back that a fifty-five gallon drum would fit in there and we capture





several of them carrying fifty-five gallon drums on their back with gasoline or something. Told you they’re the strongest people I’ve ever seen.

	O:	Wow.



	T:	So but those dogs now were very very very trained okay they will not move- okay say you’re on guard duty and the dog is laying there, everything quiet but if anybody approach so far that dog gon’ sit up, the person keep advancing that dog gon’ stand up there and get right beside your right leg okay. Then the person keep advancing then those ears in the dog point then you holler, hark who goes there. Nobody say anything, you do it a second time, nobody say anything.

That’s when you take the leash off the dog, the second time okay but that dog not gon’ move growl anything until you give a command okay. Second time, the third time nobody say nothing then that’s when you—

	O:	Release the dog, let the dog go. And the dog becomes aware of something out there before you even.

	T:	Oh yeah, on guard duty you didn’t have to worry about the sergeant catching you sleep cause he ain’t coming out there up on that dog.

	O:	Did you ever have to release the dog?



	T:	No I always, like I said I was on permanent patrol, my job was to dispatch everybody to their duties you know but I witnessed when I went out there one time to relieve a guy it was- we all call him poppa songs. He wasn’t saying anything, doing anything but they had a fifty-five gallon drum on then they let that dog loose when we turned that dog just tore him up because they was vicious and every day after the duty, the next day when you get up everything, our job





was to put on a padded suit and get out there and just aggravate that dog to death. He trying to tear you up but you had on pads and all that, couldn’t hurt you, but that was our duty every day to make sure. I say personally, I had a dog when it gets you used to the dog okay you can come up knowing that that dog don’t see a threat you don’t get between me and that dog period. You come up and I’ll let you pet him on the head and stuff like get you used to him then afterwards somebody finna rotate they rotate then I got to take somebodies dog. It’s very very exciting I loved Korea. I loved Korea so much I didn’t take an R&R back to Japan. I spent my R&R in Korea.

	O:	Is that right?



	T:	Yeah.



	O:	What could you do in R&R in Korea in the [19]50s?



	T:	Well I had a pretty young girl that I was going with you know just it was exciting you know very exciting and I didn’t have no bad time in Korea. I had a good time in Korea.

	O:	How long were you in Korea?



	T:	One year, eleven days. I got there January [19]55 and left December [19]56. O:	Okay.

	T:	No it was December [19]55 left January [19]56, did I say that right? O:	Okay, January [19]55 through—

	T:	No it was December [19]54 through January [19]56. O:	Okay got it.

	T:	I was there for almost two winters, its cold over there.





	O:	Yeah tell me about the winters.



	T:	Best way to describe it is cold. It was forty below zero [inaudible at 30:30] I witnessed a lot of guys losing the famous toes and all different stuff. It’s lucky none of that happened to me.

	O:	You were out there every night driving around in a Jeep- T:	An open Jeep.

	O:	An open Jeep, that’s right, that’s right.



	T:	But I had on long johns, parkas, everything. O:	You were prepared?

	T:	Oh yeah.



	O:	Were you not prepared the first time as you should’ve been and then you learned or you just knew?

	T:	Once I got a little bit of that cold weather I go and get prepared right then. O:	What were the summers like?

	T:	It was just mostly like this in the [19]80s, [19]90s, something like that you know.



But the cold weather was the only thing I paid attention to.



	O:	That’s interesting, every veteran I’ve talked to about the Korean War, they’ve been there, one of the most common threats is the cold winters. Unbelievable.

	T:	Yeah I like to say those guys that weren’t protected they started losing toes, fingers, it was a mess.

O:  So you did this work in the Air Force for a year, basically a year, now when you- let’s say out of the average month were you out every single night or did you get nights off?





	T:	I get nights off.



	O:	How many nights off? Two a week?



	T:	Let’s see I had- most times I had weeks sometimes it was weekends off, two nights you had back to back unless it was short then you had to work straight until- because I was as a squad leader I was a head person in charge cause the sergeant dumping on the airmen person, airmen person dumping on me then I had to carry on and say this is your baby until tomorrow morning. These majors is out here that got twenty-two years old in charge of millions and millions of dollars’ worth of stuff man. B-52’s was laying over there and C-124’s all kinds of stuff. So I had a- I realize now how important my job was. At the time I just [inaudible at 33:05] I was in charge of a lot of stuff. That one B-52 that darn thing costs millions of dollars by itself.

	O:	Sure, and you never really had any issues?



	T:	No, no issues at the time no. We kept the base well protected because we stayed on our job and once we got off then we was off but one that job we was on that job. Make sure nothing happen.

	O:	Took it seriously. T:	Right.

	O:	So you ended your tour there in that particular duty. 1956, January then what happened?

	T:	I was assigned to Greenville Air Force Base, Mississippi.



	O:	Now did you expect to be reassigned, did you know it would only be about a year?





	T:	Yeah I knew it was just a year.



	O:	You knew that? Okay.



	T:	But where I was going back in the states I didn’t know until I received my orders, was Greenville Air Force Base Mississippi and believe it or not we was sitting in the mess hall, Thanksgiving of [19]55 when it came over the radio that little Emmett Till just got killed in Mississippi and now when I rotated to Mississippi I ran ship thirty miles from where the boy got killed at. But again, I had a good time in Mississippi, no problem at all, period. I just you know I’m like this wherever I go, if I got something to do, Ima do it, stay on everybody’s business and wish that they stay out of mine you know what I’m saying so that’s the way I work.

	O:	There was a lot of turmoil then there Mississippi?



	T:	Especially around Mississippi, Alabama and places of that nature and just it was amiss but like I said I survived it no problem at all.

	O:	Did you get off base much? T:	Oh yeah.

	O:	You did?



	T:	I was dating a girl in Vicksburg, Mississippi which is ninety miles from Greenville and every night when I got off duty I went over, got my uniform for the next day and hit that road, going to see her. So we had a sergeant one night he was going down the road and he ran into a horse alright the horse was on the right hand side of the road and the horse head came into the windshield when he hit him.

Didn’t kill him or anything. So one night- one morning about three o clock I be coming back from Vicksburg, Mississippi, riding about eight or nine back then





wasn’t no speed limit. Riding about ninety miles an hour, [inaudible at 36:12] and down there there’s about six horses in the road and I’m only about two blocks from the horses so I’m beginning now to try to stop but I couldn’t stop [inaudible at 36:28] Went about a mile down the road got out stopped the car and got out and fell on the ground, I was that nervous. So from then on I said well Ima pass the speed limit I’m not gonna be on that road all the time you know. But again, I had a lot of fun. Only thing wrong was I was jump that because I’m still in Mississippi and after I left Mississippi I went to Texas. Back to Texas. In Goodfellow Air Force Base, San Angelo, Texas this time. So I’m on the base, I mean the gate from eleven at night to seven in the morning and this young White lady came, she said well I want to go on the base to see my boyfriend. I said no you can’t do it tonight because the base is on restriction and she states that she’s married, she’s married. I said ma’am you cannot go on the base tonight, it’s restricted. Nine o clock that next morning I get a call from headquarters, she had told them I tried to kiss her on main gate. Man in Texas in 1958, like being in Georgia in 1830. I had a staff sergeant directly over men, he said, “No Thomas didn’t do anything like this,” but then the master sergeant didn’t like me from day one, I can’t figure out why he didn’t like me. Because we had this thing said, sergeant okay the sharpest airman will get off the night so I got this Army experience, everything I had was clean so every night I’m getting picked. He said well now I can’t let you off every night you got to pick somebody else to be off in your place and I don’t know if that’s what the sergeant had against me, I don’t know what he had against me. But I had to receive a discharge and that hurted





me to my heart because I just reenlist for six years and mind you my thing was retire from the Air Force, if that hadn’t happened I would’ve retired in 1934 with thirty years, that was my plan but she messed up my career you know. Man that hurted me.

	O:	Okay, what- I’m a little confused now. When that happened in [19]58 what did the military do?

	T:	I had to accept a discharge.



	O:	You had to accept the- what kind of discharge? T:	Oh I got an honorable discharge.

	O:	Okay.



	T:	General discharge on an honorable condition what it was which mean I still got all my benefits and everything but see that’s not- all that shine good but you know I was accused of something I didn’t do.

	O:	Let me ask you, what was the military procedure when she complained about this? Launches this complaint, then what happened? What did the military- how did they address this?

	T:	Oh they give me article 15. O:	Okay.

	T:	So they didn’t give me a regular trial or nothing like that, that’s article 15 and that’s what happened as the results come out of it.

	O:	Let me stop you there article 15 for people who don’t know exactly what that means, what did that mean to you an article 15?





	T:	Well I know it wasn’t as great as a general discharge. I mean general court martial but in the meantime it means that you had to do something that not real bad but bad enough to get an article 15 which they can put you on thirty days suspension, take so much of your pay, or even a pay grade reduction or something like that.

	O:	So the assumption was, believe her, don’t believe you. That was the assumption. T:	That was it.

	O:	Now obviously you said you didn’t do it.



	T:	Oh yeah, when you’re on a main gate, cars like this all night long and I’m handling both sides of the gate, when and where I have time to try to kiss a lady and then-

	O:	Why would you—you had duty, you were on duty, why? But the assumption was that she was honest and you weren’t. I mean that was the assumption it wasn’t even-

	T:	Otherwise the way it seem to me, whatever she say was right they didn’t want to hear nothing I had to say. I said this master sergeant kept pushing, the staff sergeant fighting for me, the master sergeant fighting against me. Two pay grades higher than other so he won.

	O:	Even though he had no evidence.



	T:	No, not at all nobody had no evidence.



	O:	An assumption of guilt rather than yeah. So that was in— T:	1958.





	O:	1958, so you had to leave the military, honorable discharge, but you had to leave, you didn’t want to leave.

	T:	No man like I just said I reenlisted for six years.



	O:	And then you were put in a position, you did the right thing by denying her entrance and your other option of course would’ve been not to do the right thing.

	T:	If I had let her on, they’d find out about it then if I got discharged [inaudible at 42:30] because I done disobeyed a direct order. So it’s just—

	O:	Was there any way for you to appeal that?



	T:	There probably were at the time but I was young. Didn’t know anything about the law, I wish I’d known what I know now about the law but you know it’s all past and I got all benefits and everything so now I’m on the second pension which I guess I’m getting close as much money now than I probably would’ve got being retired but that’s not the point.

	O:	No, it’s not.



	T:	The point was I was degraded and accused of something like that. Today now they call that was it sexual harassment or something?

	O:	Right, right. So you left in [19]58 where- well first of all let me ask you, you say have benefits and your pension, you were in the military how many years all together?

	T:	Six.



	O:	Six years? And you do get a pension? You get something from the government?



	T:	Yeah, let’s see how to word that, disability pension. Otherwise if you was in a combat- only way you can get this pension is if you was in a combat zone okay





the war was over when I got there but they extended to 1955 which qualified me to be there because I got there December [19]54. Now that qualify me to get a pension.

	O:	Because you were in a combat zone? T:	Right.

	O:	Okay.



	T:	Later on I applied for another one and got it. So otherwise that got me around I think 1700 dollars a month paycheck, plus social security which is [inaudible at 44:42] to me, give me a chance to pay for this house and different stuff and still have two or three dollars left. Now in 2017 I had surgery on this eye, they say well we got a [inaudible at 45:06] put in that eye to release the pressure, fluids I got.

	O:	Glaucoma?



	T:	Right, okay, so went on, had the surgery done and the next day they couldn’t find the tube. I don’t know why they put up on a layer of skin so they could see it went it. They said well we got to go back in and do that, I said we just came out the darn thing. So when they went back in the eye again then that’s what messed up my eyesight.

	O:	Okay.



	T:	So now they at the part now to making me an offer on how much money they want to pay me for messing up my eye.

	O:	I see.



	T:	When I went in, I’m seeing good, when I come out I’m legally blind.





	O:	How’s your right eye?



	T:	Oh it’s been pretty bad all the time, long time. O:	Really, what was the issue with that eye?

	T:	I used to rub it a lot, it used to itch and I used to rub it a lot so I think I might of disturbed something, vessels or something and it’s not completely gone but when I’m looking at you I can’t see too much here but from here back I can see some. And this eye here was failing because of the glaucoma and now when they took that patch off the next day my eyesight was good but they couldn’t find the tube.

	O:	Did they ever find it when they went in again?



	T:	Yeah they repositioned it and now when they go in there first time you see, it’s right there but the point is they messed up my eyesight.

	O:	This was the VA?



	T:	I had to [inaudible at 46:50] I had to go to the doctors in Jacksonville, I don’t know why they sent me there I guess to find out why the VA messed up a lot but like I told him, he can’t do nothing about it now you just done messed up the eye. My release date is for August the 31st to know how much they gon’ give me or whatever but after the doctors in Jacksonville was late sending the report now it’s September the 19th I won’t know until later what they gon’ give me. But I know it’s gon’ be something that I don’t know if it’s gon’ be two, three dollars or what. I’ll be awful mad if the y offer me two, three dollars because I’d rather have my eyesight than any amount of money.

	O:	Well sure.





	T:	Because see by trade I’m a carpenter and a professional house painter and I loved all that stuff, I did it for years and years and now I just I don’t see. Just like right now I can’t read anything because you know.

	O:	So how long were you a carpenter and you said a house painter? T:	Right.

	O:	How many years did you do that?



	T:	Fifty-seven years. I was a painting, I started painting in 1940- I mean 1971 so I painted from [19]71 up until 2017.

	O:	Just yourself?



	T:	Oh yeah this is all contracting myself. How long you’ve been in Florida now? O:	Fourteen years.

	T:	Okay you wasn’t here then this back in thirty years ago. Apalachicola had a hurricane came through there in 1984 and I was living up in a place called Havana, Florida and then after that it was Tallahassee so I had so much work in other places I had to just- my head carpenter I gave him a 30,000-dollar job because I was snowed under. The thing hit like today, I went back home, a few days later I came back, time I got checked in the motel, they came out get out get out you gotta go coming back to [inaudible at 49:31] That’s when they messed up highway 98 from Perry all back down to Panama City, I mean it messed that highway up. I had jobs on top of jobs and painting is something I just I just I loved it because that house has to be just like I want it before I left it. If I painted your house you better believe it was painted right. No spots and no capfaces or





nothing like- it was painted right because I would hardly please myself with the painting.

	O:	Right, right, so what did you do from [19]58 to [19]71 before you started the carpentry and-

	T:	I went to school. O:	Went to school?

	T:	G.I. Bill. I went first I went for carpenter and brick mason [inaudible at 50:30] finished that course and that’s when I got started in doing the construction this was in- from [19]59 to [19]62. Three years. Then is when I got started- start laying blocks but that block thing was too hard on the back, I got away from that. Went strictly for carpentry and painting. Okay and then 1983 also that’s when I met up with the Florida department of law enforcement, the state attorney out of Live Oak, Florida and they asked me to meet them at the county line between Live Oak and Lake City. I met them there and they signed me on as a contractor which mean investigating what happened, they would send me say Brooksville or Perry or Lake City to set up the investigation, get the cases ready, then I’d come by and report to them what subject that I’m looking at and whatever, they sign up everything. I now was- nobody went with me no time I was monitored when I went out to do a deal but they sent me to each town to get the case ready, get the subject ready, suspects, and then afterwards I come out and report to them. Then we get ready to start buying, cocaine mostly unless it’s a big quantity of marijuana it wasn’t no little ten or fifteen part but cocaine the less we bought was maybe half an ounce, something like that. So from 1983 to 2000 I worked with-





when I worked as a contractor for Florida Department of Law Enforcement. I worked with the DEA here in Gainesville, the FBI’s in Tallahassee, but every time I went out I told them I don’t want no city police no nothing because you couldn’t trust everybody when you’re doing that stuff because you know who’s getting the pay off. So when I went into a town, maybe one person from the sheriff’s department, somebody like that know I’m coming, not a whole lot of people. And when I went to them I said okay I got such and such person on the radar this is who we should work on and they ask me how we want to do it and we start doing it. But the whole time I was acting as a contractor which I were and then also DJ see I did music for fifty-seven years also, as a DJ. Okay but we did over three hundred cases and we only lost one. Somebody in there said I was good, I’m not saying I was good but we only lost one case out of 3three hundred five.

	O:	So you’re working undercover? T:	Yeah.

	O:	How did you get that? How did you end up in that job?



	T:	Well see I had that police experience from Georgia and Air Force so that’s how I got- then I know this Deputy Sheriff at Live Oak, he kept telling me you know I got some people I want you to meet because I think you could do us a lot of good so I agreed to meet them and that’s when it happened. I wasn’t on their payroll now I was a contractor.

	O:	So you get paid for each job that was added, is that how it worked or did they have a contract for like a year?

	T:	No each job.





	O:	Each job you got paid, okay.



	T:	I stayed busy the whole seventeen years.



	O:	So would you go live there for a while and act as a contractor?



	T:	Everywhere I went they either sent me up an apartment, a house, or a trailer. If it wasn’t furnished they’d put all the furniture in there and everything. I just like a person moving to the area that do construction work and so that’s the way it looked at.

	O:	The way it worked, yeah. Job can get kind of scary at times though didn’t it?



	T:	In Monticello okay I got there about two o clock in the afternoon I was going to work with a guy named Gilly, he was a dealer. So when I got there the lady said “Well hey Gilly’s not here now,” I said “But this is my house you can park your truck in the back there then he’ll be coming in later.” I said okay. But I got two peoples on the other side of town monitoring me said just like your recorder.

Okay one of them—



	O:	So you were wearing a wire is that what it is? So they could hear you? T:	Right there in my ball cap was that mic.

	O:	Okay.



	T:	So my DJ name was Mr. Tease. So finally this guy came in just as it start turning dark so the guy came and said “Well I heard you want to buy some cocaine,” I said “Yeah.” “Tell these people that cocaine is bad.” I said “Yeah it’s bad but we still like to make money off of it.” See I had to be cool calm all the time because you don’t got to fear. So he said you know we have undercover person came through here about two months ago, we beat the living out of him. I said “What’s





that got to do with me? You tell me about somebody came through, said now if you think that about me then I’ll leave right now I don’t want to talk- no no I’m not thinking like that I just want to let you know what happened.” “We don’t like undercover policemen.” I said “Well I don’t like them either see I’m trying to make money.” So he went in his pocket and came out with a pretty pearl handle nickel plated 38 and laid it on the table. He said “You know about two months ago we beat the living h out of an uncover man.” I said “Man like I told you before if you think that about me I got no business talking to you no more.” He said “No no no I’m not talking about you I mean just letting you know, you know.” I said “Well I don’t want to hear all this stuff.” Then I got some guy here, I was telling everybody I was from Jacksonville. This guy here think if I buy some cocaine Ima give him a piece of it. He said “Yeah I know him, I know him from Jacksonville.” He was lying all the time, he’d never seen me before. “Yeah I know him, I know him from Jacksonville, he’s a good guy.” [inaudible at 58:17] I don’t do any dealing or nothing like you know what I’m saying. I didn’t make the deal that night see, he was suspicious enough not to deal with me. Then a radar went off in my head and I said anything I go at now I usually get it. So what happened, I approached another guy, I told him what had happened and everything. This guy went in and got it so I still got credit for it because you know I set up a deal. But anyways that’s the only really hairy situation- no there’s another one. I did a deal in Lake City, I had twelve cases in Lake City and I was in Jasper, Florida one night in a night club, this guy, one of the dangerous guys in Lake City, he walked up to me he said Eddie. I said what’s up, he said somebody told us that you was





a person that got everybody busted in Lake City. He said but I don’t believe it. I said well you know me man, you think I’d do something like that? He said no see I told them you didn’t do anything like that. But this guy was he was so dangerous he killed a guy and put him on the courthouse steps in Lake City. He was very dangerous but he believed me over somebody else. Had he thought it was me, it might have been a killing that night. So I had a hairy situation.

	O:	Did you ever worry about any of these people coming back on you?



	T:	No I tried to stay out of that area because I got so good, everywhere I went they gave me a video monitor and I put in my closet back there but in my kitchen on the dining room counter I mean living room- dining room counter I had a boom box. Just like a regular boom box but the cameras in it. So we’re sitting there talking making the dealing and everything then later on when they get ready to go to court the guy might say well no that’s not me, it’s showing that video. I got so good at this thing every time the guy then find out who the CI was confidential source, they’d plead guilty, try to make a guilty because this guy is good, he got you.

	O:	How many years you did that? T:	Seventeen.

	O:	Seventeen.



	T:	[19]83 to 2000.



	O:	Were you married at the time? T:	Married?

	O:	Married.





	T:	Yeah.



	O:	You were, how did your wife feel about this? Was she worried?



	T:	Not a whole lot because she went with me some weekends, she went with me you know but she knew what I was doing and she stayed at the house with the kids or something like that and she know I was very capable of taking care of myself so she ain’t worry too much. Maybe some but not too much.

	O:	So I that time you were doing that kind of work and you were also doing the carpentry work?

	T:	Carpentry work, painting. O:	Right, you’re a busy guy.

	T:	Plus the music I’ve done the music. Everywhere I went to make the case I was doing the music also. So I was busy busy busy. Then Georgia Pacific over in Palatka they had a drug problem there, they sent me in Georgia Pacific to get a job, I went in there and they signed me up on the job. The main peoples know why I was there but employees didn’t know why I was there so I got paid great for that. They’d pay me five hundred dollars a week at the Georgia Pacific and the county and the state would me something like six hundred dollars a week every Friday I go by the post office and look at my mailbox and the check was in the mailbox.

	O:	And where’d you live then when you worked there, did you live over in Palatka? T:	I lived in Bronson.

	O:	In Bronson, at the time. That was a bit of a drive wasn’t it, everyday?



	T:	Yeah but after so long I stopped at an apartment in Palatka. I stayed over there.





	O:	Okay so how many kids do you have? T:	I was the father of ten kids.

	O:	Ten kids, okay okay. Are they all around here, some of them around here? T:	No, Georgia, Texas, Mississippi, those three states.

	O:	Okay, none from here.



	T:	No, yeah I’m sorry my last batch of kids I got a daughter that live here in town and one live in Archer. I got a son live in Ocala.

	O:	Okay so you had to stay busy with ten kids? T:	Oh yeah.

	O:	To keep the money coming right?



T:  Yeah took care of my obligations and everything so. They couldn’t get me as a deadbeat dad I took care of them. I was making the money so I mean I had no reason not to look out for them.

O:  Right, right of course your wife didn’t work as she was busy with ten kids. T:   Yeah she ain’t do no work.

	O:	Okay now I just want to ask you, obviously your military experience, you’re grateful for your military experience. It probably helped you do what you ended up doing your whole life except for that incident in 1958. Yeah that was not a good situation.

T:  Say that thing doesn’t mean- that’s something- but she had to live with it I don’t know why she [inaudible at 1:05:13] me. What happened to her with time, hope nothing bad did happen to her but- because I don’t wish something bad to





somebody who did something bad to me but anyway that had to cross her mind a lot of time. I lied on this man, messed up his career and stuff.

	O:	Exactly yeah.



	T:	And if she didn’t then she’s just not- wasn’t human.



	O:	Right, anything else you’d like to add? Anything else you’d like to talk about?



Now of course we had mentioned this when we were chatting before we started the interview, you’re very active in the Korean War veteran association here in Gainesville.

	T:	Oh yeah.



	O:	And you are the quarter master/ librarian, do I say that right, is that? T:	Yes that’s right.

	O:	That’s fair and how long have you’ve been doing that? T:	I’d say in the neighborhood of eight or nine years.

	O:	Okay and you going to American Legion or you still do?



	T:	Yeah I’m going American Legion, just going on twenty years now this year. Plus I’m a member of the DFW also.

	O:	Okay so you got a lot of meetings to go to if you want to right? Is there anything else you’d like to add?

	T:	Well that’s about my life story. By now I say this month here, the third of this month make one year ago I moved in this house. I purchased in June of last year but I moved in July of last year. The VA was very nice and they financed the house for me and everything and one time I don’t know why I doubted myself but





I didn’t think I was qualified to get a house then once I got into it, it went very smooth.

	O:	That’s an issue a real issue that veterans, many of them don’t any idea, a lot of them don’t even know where to go to find that out, what their benefits are.

	T:	But I probably live with Kim Davis and [inaudible at 1:07:38] over at Veteran’s Affair anything I get from pensions, anywhere I go straight to them with it because I tell them y’all got more knowledge about this then I do so I’m coming to you and they thank me for that, appreciate it.

	O:	Right, have they helped you at all with your issue with the VA and your eye? T:	Oh yeah.

	O:	They are, okay. Well that’s good there’s a good support system for that.



	T:	Everything looking very good, Sam just sitting in the rocking chair and I see what Uncle Sam want to do.

	O:	Alright well I thank you I have no more questions at this point. T:	I thank you I mean I enjoyed this.

	O:	So did I, okay Eddie thank you.













[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Amanda Lorenzo, January 15, 2020 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, January 15, 2021





	Final edited by:	Sandra Romero, January 26, 2021