AAHP 048B; Hill-Lubin; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 048B Mildred Anderson Hill-Lubin African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Ryan Morini on December 2, 2014 1 hour, 28 minutes | 31 pages



Abstract: Dr. Mildred Hill-Lubin discusses how she became interested in African and African American literature as a major part of her research and pedagogy as a university professor. She also discusses some of her thoughts on aspects of African literature and how it relates to African American literature, and what it was like to be among the first to teach African literature at the University of Florida in the early 1970s. A significant portion of the interview discusses her lead role in planning the African Literature Association conference in 1980 which UF hosted, and which featured a number of distinguished guests—including James Baldwin and Chinua Achebe, who met each other for the first time at the event. Dr. Hill-Lubin also discusses the legacy the event left at UF, and some of her continued experiences and efforts in regard to African literature.





Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida; African Literature; Alachua County, Florida; Achebe, Chinua; Baldwin, James]







































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 048B

Interviewee: Mildred Hill-Lubin Interviewer: Ryan Morini Date: December 2, 2014



	M:	This is Ryan Morini. I’m here with Dr. Mildred Hill—is it LU-bin or Lu-BAN? H:	Lu-BAN.

	M:	Lu-BAN, okay.



	H:	Lu-BAN. Nasal.



	M:	Lu-BAN.



	H:	Lu-BAN.



	M:	Okay.



	H:	Lu-BAN.



	M:	In her home, here in Gainesville, Florida. It’s December the 2nd, 2014. Thank you for joining me today.

	H:	Thank you for coming.



	M:	It’s my pleasure. So, today we were going to talk about a pretty extraordinary event that took place in April of 1980 at the African Literature Association, and that was the meeting, the first time, that Chinua Achebe and James Baldwin met. If we can start with a little background on how you kind of got to that point—in some ways, it seems like this event—your career was sort of situated between African and African American Literature. So, how did you get started on that track?

	H:	Well, when I began to become interested in—well, should I say, my early days in college did not include did not include that much African American literature. I remember my senior year, the professor put one book on reserve and had us to read a bit out of it. The book was Sterling Brown’s The Negro Cavalcade, and we





read some of that. Just a little bit. Because we—at that time, our minds were not even on African American literature, or even—we thought it was not any good, because we had never had any in any place. Most of us—I should say I did, maybe. But anyway, I did take that class; I won’t say I didn’t have any in undergraduate. But then, as I continued, I did get my master’s, and I was able to come back to Gainesville. I’m sorry. After I received my master’s, I was able to come back to Augusta, Georgia, where I had studied at Paine College, and had been asked by my mentor—and we didn’t call her “mentor” at that time, but a person who had taken an interest in me, and had stated that she wanted me to come back and teach at Paine College. And I had to go to get my Master’s in order to do that. By that time, I had two sons, and they were staying with my mother while I came back to college, actually. I always say that I was a dropout. I did drop out in 1953, I believe it was—no, [19]52—and married. I dropped out to get married. And I did get married, and my husband promised me that I would be able to go back to school. But as soon as I went back for the fall semester, he started wanting me to come out. I did convince him to let me, as I say now, stay on there until the December holidays, Christmas holidays. I went home without anything, with the intent of convincing him to allow me to go back, but that didn’t happen. We eventually moved to Charlotte, North Carolina. But I never stopped thinking that I wanted to graduate. I even wanted to graduate with my class. But what happened—I finally was able to go to Johnson C. Smith, and take some courses, which would, if I had been able, I could have gone back to Paine College and finish with my class. But instead of being able to go back, I became





pregnant. And oh, that was just—I thought the world was ending at that time. But I didn’t lose hope. I continued to feel that I was going to get back to school somehow. So in 1959, or near [19]60, let’s see… [19]59. I was in Columbus, Georgia. I had separated from that husband and was in Columbus, Georgia. And I took a course in Guidance, or Counseling, or whatever, and heard about—I think it was the NEA scholarships or something like that. And so that gave me opening as to being able to go back to college. So, I was able to get one of those fellowships. I went back, and I was then, at that time, in supposedly my junior year. But I had a number of courses I had to take before I could be a junior—or be a senior, actually. But somehow, I was able to do that. And therefore, I was able then to go and get my master’s. And I came back. And while I was there, the desegregation of schools began. And we also had written a grant to help improve the teaching of English among public high school, and where we finally ended up doing it with elementary teachers. And while we were doing that, we had one consultant to come in—oh gosh, and I’m not going think of her name! She was Priscilla—I can’t think of the last name. Priscilla Something. But she was a very dedicated English professor, and had studied a good bit. She had studied African Literature. Now, keep in mind, this is around [19]61 or so. But she knew all about Chinua Achebe, and she introduced us to him and some of the other African literature writers. Well, immediately—as soon as I read those writers, I began to see the similarities. And then, that is the way I became interested at looking at the relationship, or the interconnections, between African and African American Literature. So that was my road. A pretty long road, but it was always a long road





for me. [Laughter] The funniest one is, the first time that I went to college, I was not even accepted. Nobody had told me or sent me a letter saying “You may come,” or anything. So I always tell people I went to college without being even accepted. But, interestingly enough, I made the highest entering score that—at that time they gave out the tests, instead of like you have to take them before. But I made the highest score, so they weren’t going to send me away then. So they were willing to help me get my transcript and get situated to stay there.

That’s how a part of my college life, getting to college. Because people didn’t think I was able to go in my family. They thought I was smart. They believed I was able to do work, but they didn’t really think my family would able to send me. And as a matter of fact, my mother said to me, “Mildred, we don’t have any money to send you to college.” But that same determination and hope that I had, sent me off. [Laughter] I just off down there! No money at all. But anyway, that’s the beginning. I went, I did well, and this teacher, Dr. Ruth Bartholomew, who was the chair of the English Department at Paine, became interested. She suggested that I go and get my master’s and come back. And there’s another connection there. She was a deaconess in the Methodist church, but she had taught more at Paine College for the longest. But when she took a sabbatical, she went to, what then was Southern Rhodesia. And she brought back pictures of her going to Rhodesia. And she taught at a school called Olamtali. And she introduced us to it. Again, we were not interested in African children. We didn’t think it was a pretty sight at all. But that is a relationship, and so ironic that we had those, too. Later I met, in graduate school, a man who had graduated from





Olamtali. Now, we didn’t pursue whether he knew Dr. Bartholomew or not. So, that’s how I got involved in Africa.

	M:	Did exposure to that literature kind of change your perception of Africa itself? H:	Oh, it did. The literature. But by that time, the Black Movement had started.

Because see, I went back and graduated in 1960 as an undergraduate, and graduated at Western Reserve in 1961. So, this was the period when everything was on fire—I mean, literally, as well as stimulating in many ways. By then, I was feeling pretty close to Africa, and also I had the opportunity to go to Africa—go to Ghana, I should say. Because that’s one thing that I had to teach. That we stop talking about Africa and be specific, because Africa is a continent. There are these states and countries there that we need to recognize. So, I’m not going to know the organization, but it was an organization that was designed to introduce African American teachers to Africa, and we went there also. So I went to Ghana and studied some. As I said, Africa and African American was in the air. And the word that I was trying to remember for a long time was Africanism: that’s what you call our focus.

	M:	That’s right. Yeah, and so, alongside the civil rights and the rise of—as you were saying, there was a lot going on.

	H:	The Black arts movement. The Black arts came a little bit later, just almost near the [19]70s. By that time, I was very much into African and African American literature. So much so that I was being hired as a consultant to come and talk about African and African American literature to high school teachers and so on.





	M:	I see. Well, I was only going to add, concomitant with that, you’ve also got a lot of the independence movements in Africa, so there’s a lot of African nationalism.

	H:	Oh yeah, the African countries were becoming free. You know that Chinua Achebe’s novel was written in [19]58, so he tells—and we then taught it as more of a view of history, a real life view of Africa. So in that case, it was eye-opening that we could do that. We could see these were people who had a society, who had rules, and so on. And then at the same time, we could see the literary aspect of it, too.

M:  To relate this to—I still have to challenge in the classroom of reminding students that Africa is not a country. In fact, I had a paper that said that this semester, you know? “Countries like Africa.”

	H:	I’m sure. We’ll, you’ll get it everywhere. Because the radio, when they were talking about the Ebola crisis for a while, they was “Africa.” Then finally somebody decided, well, we better talk about West Africa. And then they finally came to start to calling various countries and so on. But, how can you not?

Because that’s the way Africa is spoken of in most arenas. So if you are going to talk about Africa, you have to discuss it, teach about it, you going have to help the students to understand that. Well, of course, somebody reminded me, too, when I first started.

	M:	It takes that, I guess. So Things Fall Apart, I read it in high school, but I didn’t realize until college how much of it was also a critique of Conrad’s Heart of Darkness, and other existing literature that was considered African literature, but his whole point was, it’s not African at all. Conrad. Heart of Darkness.





	H:	Oh, no, no, no. Oh yeah, at one time, it was considered African literature. And Chinua hates it, as you know. [Laughter]

	M:	Had you grown with those kinds of novels and that kind of discussion of Africa?



	H:	I had read Heart of Darkness, of course. But when you read those as a Black person, you sort of feel sad about it. At that time, you weren’t going to challenge anybody that much about it, because then you would have been in trouble with getting out of school and all of that. Now, there were people that did that. In my dissertation, I write about some of us. I talk about, there were periods in our lives—this was dealing with the cultural history and so forth—I call a period that we were dead, for the most part. I’d call it our dead period. Dead in the sense that we did not do anything that much to get rid of all those bad portrayals. As a matter of fact, we just went ahead sometime and thought they were ugly, too!

You know, that kind of situation. And of course, you couldn’t be Black. Because that was not pretty in that time. You just went through a kind of dead-like period in terms of beginning to become nationalistic, in the sense that we did later in the [19]60s and the [19]70s. So that’s what happened. You just didn’t—well, that’s just not it. We didn’t do anything about it. I remember Heart of Darkness very well. And I think that’s where I began—well, maybe later, when I began seeing patterns that are—in many instances, it was the Black people’s story, or the main character was a Black person, but it was always the White character who was going to be the one to be the winner and be good. Be the character that everybody likes and so on. And that angered me. Because then, they came up with movies that did the same pattern. So it was good to read something like





Chinua Achebe and see that that was a man who was willing to stand up to say “This wrong.” Well, he didn’t say anything wrong, Obierika did that. But he acted on it: “It need to be changed!” So, that was good. Although, we still saw him as this character with flaws and all that, too.

	M:	Okonkwo, you mean? H:	Mmhm, Okonkwo.

	M:	Every character with depth has to have them. H:	With the what?

	M:	Every three-dimensional character has to have flaws.



	H:	Oh yeah, definitely. He was [inaudible 22:53]. I still like Okonkwo. [Laughter] M:	It’s hard not to root for him, in his own way.

	H:	Yeah, he had his faults, but he still was trying.



	M:	In a previous interview, you noted there was another pivotal moment for you, and that was, I guess Martin Luther King was assassinated when you were at—

	H:	Oh, Paine college. M:	Yeah.

	H:	Yeah, that’s right. Oh, that was a terrible day. It was so interesting, because I was teaching at the time when the information first came out. At the same time, I was looking for my son. That year he had integrated, or desegregated, the school, the White school nearby. He was one of the ones that did that. And it was a big issue, because some of the college fellows, two of them in particular, took an interest. And they would go and pick him up, and they would be the one to carry him. But I would never be satisfied. I’m teaching and looking out the





window at the same time, to see if they have come back on campus. Well, that day, we heard that Martin Luther King—it was sad then. But fortunately, we went into the chapel and had a little service, and that calmed people down a little bit. But we were very upset about that. That period was awful altogether, because people in the community, the Whites in the community, had been calling persons who were talking about integrating, desegregating the schools, that they were going to get the children or do harm to them. And I know they finally got my telephone number. They had a hard time, but they finally got it. And they would tell me things like, “We going to shoot him just like we did Kennedy,” and things of that nature. So it was scary. But what I did in order to be able to even take my son, was to write a letter to myself saying that if he had been old enough, he would’ve probably would have gone to war for his country. And I considered this his going to war for something that’s significant for us. Therefore, that calmed me down that I could let him go. There was another professor who went with me to take him the first day. The people didn’t bother us at all. They were just lined on two sides of us, and we walked through them going up to the school. But no fighting or anything. Nobody tried to push him back. Apparently, Bob went to school there telling the children—he had to help the children there learn how to read, because he knew how to read. He helping the White children! [Laughter] Oh, Lord! But the other part was, they say, “What is your favorite fruit?” And he told them watermelon. And you know, that’s stereotype! [Laughter]

	M:	Yeah, that must’ve been an experience. So, that’s pretty late for school integration, too, isn’t it? Late [19]60s that you’re talking about.





	H:	Yeah, it must have been about [19]60—I went back to teach in [19]62. No, I went back to teach in [19]61. It may have been [19]62 when that happened, when he went to school. Let’s see, he was born in 1958. So, that’s six years, it would have been, what, [19]64? 1964. Because what happened right then, White universities discovered Black colleges, and they organized an exchange program among the colleges with some of the other colleges, primarily the colleges in the Midwest. I was offered a time a Hamline College in St. Paul, Minnesota. So I took both of the boys with me the next year after my son integrated—desegregated—the White school in Augusta. Then we went to Minnesota, and he was another only Black in the class there. [Laughter] But anyway, that was part of our lives. Finally, when we came back and I put him in the school again, he said, “Momma, no more Black children coming in that school. Can’t I go on to another school?” And his biggest problem was, and he still has that, his hair. They would give him these little combs to comb hair, and he didn’t have any hair to comb! [Laughter] Oh my, that was interesting.

	M:	I can imagine. And so, you ended up coming to UF, then, in [19]74, is that correct?

H:  Mmhm. About ten years later. It was ten years later, because I worked at Paine from [19]61 up to [19]72. And then I went to graduate school to get my PhD Got the PhD in [19]74.

M:   And where did you go for the PhD?



H:  At University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Then I was to go back to Paine, because I went on one of their scholarships to help teachers, but instead, Florida





was recruiting Black professors. And Carlton Davis had come, and then the next person, Ron Foreman, who just passed. He was the second one to come, and he was from Illinois. And then he went to Illinois and brought Harris Shaw down to Florida. And then, Harris Shaw came recruiting and brought me down here. So, that’s how I got to Florida. My college wanted to have a fit, because I didn’t come back. And they wrote me and said that I had to repay money. So I took it to the president, and the president wrote—my president, the college president there— and told him that, you know, wouldn’t you be proud to see your graduate go forth and all that? So, they dropped the case, and I stayed on at Florida.

	M:	So you were the only Black female faculty member here at that time?



	H:	Well, I think that they had some in the College of Education. And then, it was a medical down in—

	M:	Down over at Shands somewhere?



	H:	Yeah, that was a woman there, I think. M:	Still not a lot, but that’s—

	H:	Mm-mm. We didn’t see those people that much, and in the College of Liberal Arts, at that moment, Women’s Studies—no, not Women’s Studies. Teaching literature, looking at women characters in the writing, and discussing it—you know, woman as agents and so on—that began. Well, there was a group of White women who were doing this. So I decided, “Well, I’m a woman. I may as well join.” And that’s how I became involved in women’s programs. And we’d started doing women faculty and staff, and I worked in that a good bit and became president, eventually, of that group. And then, in that group was another





woman—oh, gosh! How can I forget it? Irene… Irene. Oh, goodness! Irene… Anyway, she had been interested in this issue, and had gone to MLA meetings. And at that time, it was bubbling there. So, she came back with this notion, because I understand that when she wanted to find a job, get a job, her husband was a professor at the university, and they didn’t want to give her a job, because he was a faculty member. So she already had this feeling of anger and bitterness, so that it led her to really become involved in wanting to create a program for women. By that time, I had been, also, nominated to become an assistant dean in the graduate school.

	M:	This is around what time?



	H:	Just before Women’s Studies—it must have been in the late [19]70s or so? I have to think about that. But anyway, she began with the idea—and of course, they would not give us a class. They gave us a class first, but it was on probation. But she asked me—well, before that, I was assistant dean in the graduate school. And that was another woman, I think she was a dean, Ruth McQuown—Irene Thompson and Ruth McQuown. Well, they invited me to go with them to make the proposal to the—I’m trying to think: who did we make it to? The president or the vice-president of Academic Affairs. That whole group. Plus, I think we had to do it before the, make an appeal before the senate faculty. You know, all of the faculty members, and they had to decide if it was appropriate to let us do this. [Laughter] So then, we started in the class, and then she was going to do White women, and she asked me to do Black women. What else did we do? But anyway, I know the two of us brought the class together. You know, that





class. They were one of two others, I can’t think of now what they were doing. But I taught African American culture more than I did literature. I remember there was a little breakup when I wanted to teach African American women writers under the course that was named, “Women in Literature.” She and I had some little words about that. And she, “Oh, oh, you think I’m prejudiced!” I say, “I’m going let you think that!” [Laughter] So anyway, that was—we did do that.

	M:	And so, that’s all before the conference with—this is in the [19]70s?



	H:	It should have been around about the same time, getting into the [19]80s. I just can’t remember the dates. I could probably go and look in something and find out. But anyway, the conference was in 1980, I do know.

	M:	When you came in in [19]74, you would have been, it sounds like, about the only person teaching African literature here. Is that right?

	H:	I had to plead for the course from the department! Nobody was teaching African literature! There was one lady teaching African American literature, but she was happy when I came and gave it to me. They didn’t have any idea about African literature in English. Even the department, the people in the department. When I told them I wanted teach it, they thought I was going to be teaching in translation. And I told them, “No, most of them wrote in English. And furthermore, they studied the same English people that we did,” you know. [Laughter] I had to tell them that they, “That’s what they studied, too. They studied all of the English folks that we studied. Very few things will be done in translation.” So, they allowed me. They did. I have to give them credit. They allowed me to start this class in African literature. I called it “African Literature in English.” I know I put in





there about Black writers. I don’t know how I put it. Did I have “Black Writers Write?” I can’t remember. But it all, our focus was Black writers writing in English, and that’s what I was going to teach. So, they allowed me to—I did get a course organizing that.

	M:	When did you join the African Literature Association?



	H:	Now, that’s another—as they say, the African Literature Association was very young. I was not at the first meeting, and it was such a strange thing. And I don’t think I was at the second, either. But anyway, I may have been at the third. That one may have been the third meeting. One of my colleagues taught Francophone African literature, Bernadette Cailler. And she had been at the previous conference. I don’t know whether she was there at the beginning, but she was there around the time just before this conference came up. She came back and asked the people in the department of African literature—well, it’s African literature, not the department. They sent her for African literature. I also did get an appointment in the center for African literature. So I was a part of that center. Well, she asked them, “Can’t we have a conference?” And therefore, she had to ask me whether I would be a part of the conference. Now she didn’t want to go back to speak. She wanted me to go and do the talking to the group to come and be a part of our campus, and have the next—well, two years later, have the African Literature Association meet at the University of Florida. So, that’s how we became involved with it. And when we were organizing our convention, association meeting, Achebe was at one college, and I would not be able to tell you exactly.





	M:	I know he was at Bard College later. But I guess this was before that.



	H:	No, it’s not Bard. Oh, where was he? Oh, gosh. Well anyway, he was at one school, and Baldwin had been overseas for the most part, but he had come back. And somehow we were able to get in touch with him. Or either, the person who was at the school where Chinua Achebe was made arrangements for them to speak at the conference. So, they sent information to us that they were able to get them, and they could come and be the major speakers of our conference. So we agreed, and that’s how they came down.

	M:	Okay, so it was kind of handed to you as an opportunity. H:	Yeah. Mmhm.

	M:	You mentioned when you first encountered Achebe; what about Baldwin? When was the first time you read him? Do you recall?

	H:	It’s so interesting. I don’t think I had met Baldwin, but I had read so much about Baldwin that I thought I already knew him! [Laughter] And I had a very good— okay, in graduate school, I took a class—we did a great deal of Black literature in graduate school. And I took a class on Wright, Ellison, and Baldwin. Those were the three capstone writers at that time, you know. One of my professors had written about Baldwin. He did a lot of writing on Baldwin. His name was Ken Kenneman. Although I had not met him, I just felt I knew him, though. Because he was not only a scholar, but he was a popular figure. So you just heard a great deal. And when he did Fire Next Time and all of those, he was on television shows, and just everywhere. So you knew him in that way. And I definitely knew him through his works. We read Go Tell It on The Mountain. Many of his essays.





I knew Baldwin, but I was very glad to meet him—when I was able to get up to him, because it was, people just surrounded him all the time. But I did get to meet him. And after the speech, both of them, Achebe and Baldwin, came to my house. I don’t think I was living in this house, but they came to the house where I was living previously. So, that was good.

	M:	With the whole entourage?



	H:	No, no. The entourage was gone, because I guess, after they heard him speak and all that, and we had had the whatever, that incident at the meeting, they decided, “Well, we’ve heard enough, and we’ll go.”

	M:	So it was just basically you and them?



	H:	Uh-huh. Well, I thought I had to do something for them, with them, that Sunday night, since everybody was going, and they would be the only ones here. But it was a very good conference. We laid the foundation for the rest of the conferences, because we were dealing with that same searching for an African aesthetic. And that’s what they were to talk about. Then, we had other kind of things that they had not had before. We had like a festival where I had the food, dancing, drumming, all of that for one afternoon for the people and all. It was a great conference.

	M:	It sounds like it.



	H:	As I said, Bernadette Cailler was a co-convener with me. So, she didn’t—she was a co-convener. [Laughter]

	M:	That works. That works. I mean, that must have been exciting. Did you expect to have—?





	H:	My first time going to convince the other people in African Literature Association to come to Gainesville, to come to University of Florida. But I guess I convinced them. I never will forget, it was at Appalachian College. And to get to Appalachia, we had to fly into some part of North Carolina, and then get a bus and go to up to the mountains, to Appalachia. And that was some bad transportation! They used to say, it seemed like the African Literature Association had these conferences everywhere where it’s inconvenient to get there! [Laughter] And then, it grew. I had forgotten that they were just beginning this conference. Achebe says it was the fifth conference, I believe, that the African Literature Association had held.

Because we went, and we asked for it for not the next year—because they had somebody the next year—but the next year to come in 1980.

	M:	What was it like to find out that you had the opportunity to bring the two of them together? I mean, it sounds like you weren’t expecting—

	H:	Oh, we were delighted! Plus, we were really—oh, boy, we were happy about that.



Because then, that was going to be a big thing in Gainesville, to have both Achebe and Baldwin come! And I don’t know why—I think Achebe may have indicated that he would like to meet Baldwin, because he had read about Baldwin before coming to America. And he had met a number of other of the writers, but he hadn’t met Baldwin. So when he heard that he had a chance to meet Baldwin, he was eager to come. That was a big, big affair. We was just ecstatic about having Baldwin and Achebe here. And of course, I had to tell you what happened the first night they were—they were going to open our conference. And oh, we were just going to be ceiling-big. It was just going to open up there, and you





would just know that you were in literary heaven! [Laughter] And for me, of course, since I had been interested in both African and African American, oh, to have the top writers meet of those two literary groups, I was just beyond happy. It was just really a great time.

	M:	And it seems as if the topic that they were supposed to dialogue about sort of dovetails perfectly with your dissertation and the kind of work you were trying to do.

	H:	Yeah, yeah. That’s exactly right. We did have—of course, I gave it that title. That’s what I had been doing, and I wanted them to continue to tell me some more about it. Although I had finished my dissertation, it still was something that was of interest at that time.

	M:	And who better to have talking about it? What was it like to realize they were not going to show up at that first—?

	H:	Oh… That was beyond agony! Ooh, I could not believe it. We were searching everywhere for them—you know, looking, calling. “Maybe they on the road, and it’s not too far, and they’ll get here.” Oh, we didn’t know what to do. What to say. I prayed, because I didn’t where to go! I’m thinking—here, we could look out, and the audience was all—a big audience out there. And here, I had to go tell the folks that, “Unfortunately, our guests have not arrived. But, we are grateful to have you, and we’re going to present this other speaker.” But that was a terrible moment. I mean, you don’t have those kind of moments often in your life, when you are supposed to be the one in charge of a convention or a program, and your





main speakers don’t show up. That’s enough to give you a heart attack. [Laughter]

	M:	I can imagine! And it had to fall on you to tell it, too. H:	I had to be the one to tell it.

	M:	Did you just decide at that moment that they’d be part of the closing ceremony instead, or was that—?

	H:	I think we may have talked about it, because Hunt Davis was very helpful, too, when we were—so, I maybe called. Because I remember almost getting angry with Bernadette. Here she was somewhere—I had to run her down, and I’m in this big struggle, and looking for some way out. And she nowhere around. And then, I did, I think Hunt Davis, we all finally got together and decided that they weren’t going be here. Then, we had to start thinking of who or what we could do to keep the people here. But now of course, immediately after I announced it, where maybe they stayed there, as I think Achebe says they stayed until the president made his welcome address. But you could see people getting up, getting up, getting up, leaving. Woo! That was a sad matter! Unbelievable, unbelievable.

	M:	Must have been. Just as a minor detail, but where did you hold this on campus?



Do you remember which building it was in?



	H:	I sure don’t. I really don’t remember. But it was a pretty big place. Oh, Reitz Union. In the Reitz Union.

	M:	Okay, it was in the Reitz.



	H:	It was in Reitz Union. And I’m not sure which—wherever was a big place.





	M:	If it’s even there now. With all the renovations, it might be—



	H:	Oh, yeah. They’ve done so much there. I don’t know, but I’m almost sure it was— because we all were staying in Reitz Union, too. Well, most people were staying in Reitz Union.

	M:	That makes sense. That makes sense. And the whole conference, I guess, was held in the same spot. Is that right?

	H:	Yeah, in the same area, at the Reitz Union.



	M:	So they did finally come together, then, at the end of the conference instead of the beginning?

	H:	Yeah. But then, they did not—this, we moved it to the hotel, Holiday Inn. We had to, in Holiday Inn there. Because we were anticipating a large audience, since we had put it in the paper, and they had done interviews and everything. That meant maybe more people would be coming than was at the first event. And of course, it was a full audience. A full group of people, as far as you could see. Way back in the back, people were there. Guess they were just as happy and excited as I was. But that’s unusual for University of Florida and Gainesville, to have that many people who knew about—now, they knew about Baldwin, but I doubt that many of them knew Achebe. But that was a good way for them to know more about him.

	M:	I would imagine. I mean, the event itself, I guess you must have been pretty happy with it. It seems like it went quite—

	H:	Oh yeah, it was going along very smoothly. Very smoothly. Until all of the sudden, Baldwin was talking, and this voice came over the loudspeakers: “We





don’t have that kind of talk here! You can’t talk like that!” And the whole college— “Oh!” and everybody eyes went up, and people trying to figure out what to do, and where, and who was doing it. And of course, Baldwin, at first, was shocked. Like, “Who is this talking to me?” And, then, all of the sudden, Baldwin rolled those eyes up. And he’s saying, “Oh, White supremacy is over! It’s over!” Oh, he went on then to start preaching about White supremacy was over, and “We aren’t going to have that kind of thing, either, down here.” So, he was going on there, and I don’t know what—Achebe said he was going just as… Let’s see. Here’s a very good description. [Reading] “The association had invited Baldwin and me to open their conference with a conversation. Everything was going swimmingly.

The tone was joyful, and also serious. With typical hyperbole, Baldwin called me his ‘buddy,’ a brother he had not seen in four hundred years. The packed auditorium exploded in gleeful applause, and nearly missed the terrible aside: ‘It was not intended that we should meet’”—yeah, that’s what Baldwin said. Very possibly, he kept saying that. “What he said about my novel, Things Fall Apart was quite extraordinary. He read it in France, he said. It was about people and customs of which he knew nothing, but reading it, he recognized everybody.” That’s how I became interested at looking at the parallels in it.

	M:	Yeah, that must’ve been something to hear them talking about the—I mean, did it empower your own sense of your dissertation research? It must have been invigorating, I would think.

	H:	Well, it was great to hear them talk. But at this moment, I couldn’t tell you very much else about what was said, because I only remember now the incident. And





then, I had to go and try to explain again to the audience. It was something. But Baldwin let them have it. “You can’t be stopping me. White supremacy is over. It’s over!” Just screaming that.

	M:	Had you seen much of the—I mean, obviously, Gainesville still had—well, even still—but in the [19]80s, there was sort of very much an Old South kind of mentality in parts of Gainesville, and outlying areas, Alachua County.

	H:	Oh, definitely outlying areas! I have seen the Ku Klux Klan in a park up there in— what’s that town you pass through going to—?

	M:	Newberry, or Alachua?



	H:	No, when you going to Jacksonville. M:	Oh, through Waldo?

	H:	Not Waldo, the next one. M:	Lawtey?

	H:	Lawtey.



	M:	Lawtey.



	H:	It was a service station there, and they parked with they hoods on and everything!

	M:	Wow.



	H:	I said “Where—where am I?” But you know, it’s so interesting that I came to Florida, in two ways. First, there was a traffic sign that said Highway 40—I believe it said. “If you want to go to Florida, get on that highway.” And I always remember that highway going to Florida. And then secondly—oh goodness, it’s not coming. It’s gone now. [Laughter]





	M:	It’s interesting you came to Florida, because… something to do with the Klan, or with Lawtey, or—?

	H:	Oh, okay! The second thing was, we used to get a paper called the Chicago Defender, and it seemed as if everything in the world bad happened in Florida. I mean, everything! Now, I guess the paper was known for its sensationalism, but I used to think, “My gosh!” Everybody gets killed, the train runs over them. Oh, and the big, I remember the big mess, where—oh, what is the lady’s name? I should think I would remember. Had the trial? They had the trial, and were going to— Zora Neale Hurston wrote about it.

	M:	I know who you’re talking about. I’m surprised I’m blanking on the name right now. It’s not Rose. It’s Ruth. Is it Ruth? I’m sorry. I’m getting stuck on other names that have come up. I know who you mean, because she was, I guess, a mistress and she shot—

	H:	Yeah, that’s right. Shot the doctor. I thought, “My gosh, those people have every kind of problem!” And then, I end up here. [Laughter]

	M:	What went through your head when that happened on the—because I’ve never even heard of anyone speaking, and having someone speak out of their microphone that wasn’t—

	H:	Well, I haven’t heard it yet; I don’t know how in the devil anybody was speaking in the microphone. I mean I don’t understand how that happened.

	M:	Did they ever try to figure out what happened?



	H:	People tried to figure out. I tried to figure out on my own. I said someone— because Baldwin brought a crew, a filming crew with him, and I have a feeling





that that crew set up that scene so that Baldwin could react in that manner. Because they wanted to have something big to put in their film, so they must have decided they were going to talk in the microphone. I don’t know how they got the one that would open into the auditorium. I keep thinking—and I was saying I was going to call Hunt Davis and ask him whether we ever found out who or what that was. Even being in Florida, with this halfway Southern South and everything, I had never heard of anybody doing that kind of thing. But maybe they hadn’t ever confronted Baldwin. I don’t know. But I just keep thinking that it must have been that group. That they decided that, “Oh, we need to have something exciting happen!” So they came up with this incident. It was exciting, all right. [Laughter]

	M:	I should imagine!



	H:	It stopped everything! Everybody went, huh? What is that? Well, then Baldwin was preaching.

	M:	You think he was in on it, then?



	H:	No, Baldwin wasn’t in on it. I don’t think he was in on it. M:	So, he was genuinely surprised.

	H:	I think he was shocked, yeah. He was surprised, too. It surprised him so much that he had to slow down and get himself back together again. And when he did, that’s when he started fussing at them, telling them, “You can’t talk like to me!

This White supremacy is over. It’s over! It’s over!” If you happen to get Baldwin’s, “It’s over! Over! Over!” [Laughter] Oh, Lord! It was interesting.





	M:	Was there any response to that part of the event on campus later? I mean, did the Black students on campus do anything?

	H:	No, I don’t think anybody did anything else after that. M:	So, was it talked about a lot on campus?

	H:	No. I don’t remember being talked about. M:	So it just happened, and came and went?

	H:	This incident, it was big for us, and I don’t know. I never heard anyone else talking about it that much. Now, we may have discussed in the senate for African Studies. But it seems as if people didn’t want to touch it. That maybe they believed it was true, and so they weren’t going to bother trying to deal with, “Is it the Ku Klux Klan? Or is it a group of Whites?” Or whatever. So, it was that kind of—everybody sort of ran to see at first, but it sort of subdued, became a subdued entity. And nobody discussed it, because “It might be that it’s a group of Whites looking at what we do here on campus! And they may get us.” So, no one ever told me. But the problem, the reason I—I went somewhere shortly after this conference. So, I wasn’t on campus that much after that. I’m not sure. It may have been, that may have been—because see, I married my second husband in 1979, and he was with me when I was doing this conference and everything. We went somewhere. I know he went back to France to finish his dissertation. Now, I don’t know whether he did it before this time. Or was it that year after that? So I’m not quite sure, but I know I wasn’t around that much that summer.

	M:	Okay, that makes sense. I mean, had you seen much racism in Alachua County, or seen much of that kind of attitude before that?





	H:	No, I hadn’t seen any of that. I mean, you certainly experienced certain little things happening, but it was nothing that large that you could count that this happened. My greatest racism was working with Florida, trying to get things changed there! [Laughter] One of my major—oh, when I became this assistant dean, I thought every day they were going to fire me. Because here I was, just talking all over the dean. Just going on and on, talking. I mean, I literally was scared, because I was trying to convince him that “We need to do these things. We need to do this.” And look at students other than, yes, they didn’t make six hundred or whatever that score was for to get in graduate school. So I spent most of my efforts working, trying to do something here at the university, rather than looking so much at what was going outside. Although, I was very much an activist outside. As I said, I spent time trying to get things fixed up there.

	M:	That makes sense. That makes sense. Did holding this conference, this event, open any doors at all, or make it easier to get more African literature into the curriculum? Anything at all? Money, or whatever? Did it change anything at UF after that?

	H:	I don’t think so. Because they act now like they just started International Studies! [Laughter] They don’t even count that class. But now, when I retired, one of the thing they did say, that I introduced so many new courses to the department.

That was my significance. Which I think was a big one. But, anyway, not big enough to get me promoted.





	M:	Well, that’s—yeah, UF is a whole… And academic politics are already pretty strange, to say the least. Do you remember much about what you talked about when Achebe and Baldwin came back to your house after the event?

	H:	I sure don’t. I don’t remember. I definitely don’t remember. I’m sure I found something for Baldwin to drink! [Laughter]

	M:	Had to keep him entertained.



	H:	Oh, yeah. I’m certain that Achebe may have drunk something. I know Baldwin had to have something. Mmhm.

	M:	Oh yeah. I mean, I know Achebe commented that there was a second time that they were supposed to meet in Amherst in 1987 in the fall, and they got to because Baldwin had already passed that same year. So, this was their meeting. This was a major thing that way.

	H:	It’s certainly a major event for us.



	M:	I can imagine. Well, I think that pretty covers the questions I had about this event. H:	Well, I think you covered quite a bit. [Laughter]

	M:	I do what I can. Do you have anything you wanted to add?



	H:	Well, I will say that we received great cooperation from the university to handle this conference. Many groups contributed to—oh, I should say, yes it did: they decided to start inviting African poets or writers to campus. We did get funds for that. Ama Ata Aidoo came right after. She wasn’t here when this happened, but she came in the [19]80s. And she came back quite a number of times. Then—oh, help me, Lord! What is that man’s name? As well as I know him!

	M:	Sometimes you blank on a name like that. I know the—.





	H:	I can remember everything about him. He’s heavy. He’s from Ghana. He was an ambassador, but he was a poet. I’m trying. No, he didn’t write in—I’m still trying to think did he write some of his work, but that was Ngũgĩ who wrote some things in—

	M:	Oh, in Gĩkũyũ?



	H:	Gĩkũyũ. Gĩkũyũ, whatever. They came as visitors to campus. So, I guess we did open up, and we were able to teach the class. I think I even had the opportunity to teach a graduate-level course in African literature. Because I remember this young woman that came from Penn State. She was in the class. So yeah, I think some things grew out of it, such as visiting African professors. Then, by their coming, they did read their literature. So that meant that the audience, many of the other part of the audience, came to know African writers. And it wasn’t long before they had begun teaching a little bit about African writers. Well, we brought in some new faculty members. And they had had some African literature, and they began saying things about it, or teaching a little bit about it.

	M:	Did you notice any more student interest in it after that, or not noticeably?



	H:	Not noticeably, but I taught a course in African literature. I think I mentioned the one. And I would normally get a pretty good class full of students. Not full, but a representative number of students. I think many of them were looking for some elective in English, and that was the only thing open by that time, and so they would take it. [Laughter] But I don’t think they were that excited about it. But they did a pretty good job of working with it once they did get in the class.





	M:	Fair enough. I guess if you have nothing else to add, that’s probably a good place to conclude the interview.

	H:	Well, I think so, too.



	M:	All right. Well, thank you very much.



	H:	And I’ll be interested in hearing what you sort out—and if I think of the name of the peoples, you can write it in! [Laughter]

	M:	We can do that.



	H:	Oh gosh, now, I can’t think of his name! And it’s such a—you would not believe this. The second time I went to Africa, I met a young teacher who wanted to come to the United States to do graduate work. I convinced her to come to the University of Florida. I did. She came and she completed her Master’s under me. But then, to go on to get her doctorate, she had to go someplace else. So, she went to Wisconsin. But, she was engaged to this man. Well, they even got married, but, you know, Africa has this process of, you are over there, and you are here, and somebody stand there for you over there, so he says you are married. So, that was the way they were. And when she finished her dissertation, he was then an ambassador in Brazil. So, she went down to join him. But he had this attitude that she had been damaged, and that kind of stuff. So they separated, but she still talks about him. Awoonor. Kofi Awoonor. Kofi Awoonor, that’s who it is! That’s the reason that I don’t know why in the world I couldn’t remember his name! Got his cloth, know the history about his relationship with Nana. And another irony, Nana finished her master’s, went to Wisconsin, finished that, and then she taught in Indiana for one year. And then she came back to





Gainesville, and taught at Santa Fe Community College. Now, that’s very interesting.

	M:	That is, at that. That’s…



	H:	She calls me her mother, because I was her mother—a person just coming over to a country, and then she became my student, so I was a double mother to her.

	M:	Wow, it sounds like you did a good job helping her out.



	H:	As I used to tell my students, that—many of them didn’t know anything about Africa or African American literature anyway, so I’d have to have so many books for them to look up this, and all like that. But then, afterwards, I’d tell them, “Now, you pass it on, and then we won’t have to have people go reading everything else before they can begin to talk about the novel.”

	M:	Well, that does raise one last question: so, when you first started teaching African literature, did the library have enough—the Smathers Library on campus—have the materials you needed already, or was that an issue?

	H:	Well, they had a few, but Peter Smith came in, and he started purchasing a lot.



He did a lot. He bought up a lot of stuff. And also, Van Hook when he discovered that it had something to do with African American, then he could buy stuff, too.

We have a pretty good collection now, but back then, it wasn’t that much then.



	M:	You were pretty much swimming upstream and trying to—



	H:	Most time, we had more of our own books. That had been true all along. I should have told you that when my teacher in undergraduate school put the Sterling Brown book on reserve, that at that time, practically every Black book was out of print. Even Sterling Brown’s The Negro Cavalcade. No books—no Black books—





were in print. And then, with the Movement, when people started hollering for Black courses and literature, and more and more, then we started getting many minimal collections. And I used to go around to the small bookstores, and I didn’t bother asking for African. I told them I wanted to see children’ books with Black children in it. You know, insist on—let me see if it has any Black children in it.

Then we’ll like that book and buy it. I encouraged a lot of the bookstores to do that.

	M:	Well, I guess this is a good stopping point, then. Thank you very much for sharing all of this. I think this was a really important event, and I think it’s important for people to be able to know what went on, as well as what it took to get African literature to the point that it is now at UF. Yeah. So thank you very much.

	H:	You’re welcome. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Derick Gomez; March 16, 2015 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, April 26, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019