AAHP 694; Wiggins; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 694 Marilynn Wiggins 7-8-2019 Interviewed by Ryan Morini on July 8, 2019 80 minutes | 37 pages



Abstract: Interviewer Ryan Morini sits down with Black Pensacola elder Marilynn Wiggins to discuss her life growing up in the Florida Panhandle alongside her eight siblings. Wiggins remembers living in what she calls the “Shanty Town” of Pensacola, near downtown and named for its covert moonshine production. She recalls the layout of the Black section of downtown Pensacola during Jim Crow, which she refers to as the “Tanyard,” remembering the locations of important businesses and social hubs. She also remembers the effects of segregation on the landscape of Pensacola, recalling that some businesses resisted integration efforts well into the 1960s. Wiggins also recalls a riot among the Black community incited by the murders of Beulah Glover and James Huff on Pensacola Beach. She reflects on the current effects of gentrification in her neighborhood, lamenting the efforts to erase the heritage of the Tanyard as a historically significant area for Black Pensacolians. She notes that new houses built in the neighborhood are no longer affordable for many Black former residents, resulting in a mass exodus of Black Tanyard residents from their historic homesteads. She also reflects on the effects of police brutality on Black Pensacola, insisting that additional training should be implemented among the Pensacola Police Department to prevent unnecessary use of force.





Keywords: [Pensacola, Florida, Black community, family history, Tanyard, segregation, integration, gentrification, home ownership]



AAHP 694

Interviewee: Marilynn Wiggins Interviewer: Ryan Morini Date: July 8, 2019



	M:	This is Ryan Morini with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. Today is July 8, 2019, and we are here in the parish hall of St. Joe’s in Pensacola with–if you’d like to state your name.

	W:	My name is Marilynn L. Wiggins. M:	May I ask what the L is for?

	W:	Louise. It’s Marilynn Louise Wiggins.



	M:	Can I ask when and where you were born?



	W:	I was born in Pensacola, Florida, on Cross Street by the midwives. M:	Do you know anything about the midwife?

	W:	Well, I know what I was told by my mother about the midwives. Came out and they helped, and most of the time you could have your baby at home. They delivered kids at home. It wasn’t so much of pain medication like it is today, but I think it was a little more safer when people was having babies that way because my mom certainly had all her children and didn’t lose any of them. She didn’t have any miscarriage or anything. It was nine of us. That’s right. It was six girls and four boys. I mean three boys. Six girls, and three boys.

	M:	Can I ask your parents’ names?



	W:	My mother name was Lara Mae Wiggins, but her maiden name was Moss. M:	Moss? Okay. And…

	W:	My father? My father’s name was Jina Wiggins. M:	Okay. Were they from Pensacola?





	W:	No, my mother was from Selma, Alabama, and my father was from Wilcox County, which is Camden, Alabama.

	M:	So, how did your family end up in Pensacola?



	W:	Well, my mother said that she came to Florida in 1944. My mother actually, she was a gospel singer, and the group that my mother was the original Friendly Four from Selma, Alabama. She came here in 1944. That’s how she came to Pensacola.

	M:	Okay. And so, she kept singing when she got here?



	W:	Well, she got here, and I think she met my father whichever way and got married and stuff. She was a cook. She was a gospel singer, but she was a cook. I really remember one place that my mother used to work at called Albright Wood. It was at the Town and Country Plaza out on Fairfield. They had a counter where you just sit up there and peoples came in and bought food. She worked at so many places. She told us so many stories about a police officer who got murdered. He worked for the county police over there in Escambia County in that area. His name was Mr. Joe. I know she said that. She used to walk home, and this police used to trail her as she walked home from work. He got killed. That’s what my mom told us. But like I said, I remember her being a cook as we were small kids. We grew up before we moved down here in the downtown area over in the Shanty Town area. We called it Shanty Town because it was a place where people sold moonshine within that area. [Laughter] The sheriff’s department was there, still located where they have it on Leonard Street where they have the office spaces over in that area right there. It was a small sheriff’s





department in Shanty Town, and I remember the sheriff named Mr. Bill Davis, and, since I’ve been living downtown, I met his nephew. He work for the code enforcement. One day, I was talking about the man over there, Mr. Bill Davis, and I was there with my father. [Laughter] He was a friend to Mr. Bill Davis. He was the sheriff at the county jail, and we were small little kids. He kept looking at me kinda funny like, “Miss Marilynn,” he finally said, “How you know Mr. Bill Davis? I said, “I grew up with Mr. Bill Davis. My father was Mr. Bill Davis’s friend, real good friend.” I always wondered what happened to Sheriff Bill Davis, and his nephew said, “Miss Marilynn, he died about three years ago”. I think he said they was staying in Ft. Walton, and that kind of broke my heart because I always wanted to come back and talk to Mr. Bill Davis and let him know who I was–Mr. Wiggin’s daughter. I never got that opportunity, but I met his nephew who worked for the code enforcement at the city. He a very, very nice man, and I really do like him. Since I been living down here in this area, in the Tanyard. That’s about it.

We were small kids when we moved down here like I said, but it’s been good.



	M:	So what was Tanyard like back then?



	W:	Well, it was predominately Black. The most of it was Black peoples living down here in the Tanyard. As a matter of fact, I believe St. Joseph’s School was still standing back in the [19]60s when we moved down here, and they tore it down. Right on the corner of Government out there was a store called B. G. Grocery Store. It was on Barcelona and Government. We lived on Barcelona, right here. It wasn’t even quite a block from the school. But, we didn’t go to St. Joseph’s Church or school because my parents was Baptist and we was Baptist. We came





down here, and we was in a different type of school. We wasn’t at St. Joe’s, but, we moved down here to Tanyard. It was a quiet place. I can’t remember too many things really going on down here as far as no fights because it was predominate Black. But, there was still some racist things going on down here. There was a bar on the corner or Government and De Villiers called Tropical Bar. When Blacks peoples went in there, they wouldn’t let you sit down or anything. It was very racist, and the lady would tell you that they wasn’t integrating and stuff, saying nasty things to you. So, one time my father just got fed up with it. My cousin’s boyfriend, he was in the military, and they ran him out. So, my dad told them, “You can’t be doing this type of stuff because the law passed, and peoples can go anywhere they want to”. So, I remember them getting [inaudible 1:12:11] and they went in that bar–some more leaders–they went in Tropical Bar, and they took a seat up in that bar. So, she got up there and now she gonna tell them that they need to move. They said, “We don’t think so”. They told her, “If we can’t sit in this bar, you can’t sit on this corner. You gonna have to move, lady, because you just done went too far”. So, anyway, they was angry with my father because they felt like he was the reason why they had to move they bar because they calling you a nigger and all type of stuff. “This place ain’t for no niggers.” And, we thought, “What’s wrong with these peoples?” They didn’t move immediately, but they still shut down because the Black peoples were not gonna tolerate it. You don’t want us in here, then you don’t need to be sitting right here. You need to go. So, they end up going, but they was angry for a long time. They blamed my dad for them leaving they bar. One of my sisters then that working at





the oyster bar on Navy would go and make [inaudible 1:10:54] So, the man, Mr. Sports, he was friends to Mr. Gordon. He found out that that was my sister, so he was like, “Oh I like you, but your daddy, he made me move.” [Laughter] It was really funny because my sister said, “Well, Mr. Sports, I don’t have nothing to do with all of that.” [Laughter] It was really funny. That was the terriblest place. That was the most trouble peoples really had after that Tropical Bar because wasn’t nobody else acting like that. If they were, they was kind of undercover with theirs. They wasn’t just straight-out saying, “Hey niggers, you can’t come in our bar.” I do remember being a riot down here just all over the area because a young girl named Beulah Glover and James Huff had got killed on Pensacola Beach, and, to this day, they never found out what happened to them. I remember the Black peoples really rioting. They was really angry, and they tore up a lot of stuff.

Within the area, I remember a store named Van Meter down on Belmont. They was just mad because they just felt some kind of way I guess because segregation leaving and being integrated, and some of the people still mad. They didn’t want the Black peoples on the beach. I guess whatever happened out there, no one really knows. It kind of triggered a lot of bad feelings. But, other than that, there’s a lot of good memories. The rent is so high today, five and six and seven, eight or nine hundred dollars, and I remember the house that my mom lived in. Mr. Rug N’ Shade used to own it. Rug N’ Shade had a downtown rug place. That’s why they called it Rug N’ Shade, and they made blinds and stuff. The house was two or three bedrooms, and it was only forty-eight dollars a month. But, now you know you can’t find no house for no forty-eight dollars. We





had a little cleaners that sit right up on the hill. If you go outside look right down on Government Street, it seem like it got a hill with the city. Where the city is built right now, that was a cleaners business. That was Pfeiffer’s. Mr. Pfeiffer’s building is still sitting there. That white building was Pfeiffer’s Printing Company. What’s the Salvation Army, it was located right out there on Government. That white building right there was Pfeiffer’s, and behind it was the Salvation Army.

The lady named Miss Mary stayed right there on Government Street across the street from us, and that was the Salvation Army. We didn’t know nothing about no Waterfront Mission. We knew the Salvation Army was there. She ran that building, and, as a matter of fact, her house still sit out here on Government. And, I think one of my members of my Tanyard Association, I think he just purchased that land about three or four months ago. Miss Mary, her house was there. They had a building that if you was a painter they sold art right there on that corner.

We did have some situations with one person staying next door, one White couple. He was an older man. He didn’t like the idea that Black people living next door, and I remember him taking a hammer to nail a fence up to keep us from going around the house. He was gonna take the hammer and nail it up there and didn’t want us to walk around the house. It was a mess, but we stayed right there and let him act the way he wanted to. We just stayed there until we got ready to move. We lived on Government, and we lived on Barcelona. My father finally bought a house on Intendencia where I live in today because both of my parents are deceased. So down here on Barcelona was USO, which they brought the military mens that came. They was in the front, and they had the Blacks in the





back. But, we went down there and bought hamburgers and just talked with the guys and laughed. We were no young kids, but we laughed and talked with them. Like I say, there was many good things down here in this area, although there was a lot of prostitution also within this area. People don’t like to talk about it.

Right now, with the new peoples coming into the neighborhood, they want to erase a lot of stuff, but you can’t erase history because it is part of history and I remember being ran home a lot by the White guys. They ran me home trying to do what they do. My dad put on him a dress and a wig one day, and they thought they was getting a woman! [Laughter] We was tired of running. He put on him some high heels, and he had on a dress and a wig. I guess they thought they had met them a woman. I can remember so many good things happened. When we moved out here, Delchamp’s Grocery Store was right on Guard Street. It was Wendy’s, but that used to be Delchamp’s Grocery Store. Barnett Banks was where American Bank sit. Big Sporting Goods was on Baylen Street. J. J. Newberry’s and Sears Roebuck and Penney’s was downtown when we come down here because they didn’t have malls. They had those stores. Alabaster Jerry’s store still sit there. Bush Jewelry store was there because I remember buying my first little ring from Bush Jewelry Store. It was down there. Callow and Shirley Bar sitting on the corner of A and Government Street. We had Bailey Grocery Store, a little corner store. Miss. Bailey was Creole and had a lot of older kids, and son was a mailman. Everybody really got along really good down here. Like I said, right out on Baylen, was nothing but a line of houses right on Zarragossa. Most of the homes was owned by Blacks. When we got down here,





they started tearing down stuff and doing imminent domain, and that’s when they came and put the sewage plant. They put that building right out here on Government Street, and that’s kind of getting all the peoples up out the community. That thing stunk so bad. It really did. There used to be another little club. It was a motel called Polk Place, like a little motel, right on the corner out there on Government and De Villiers Street. Before the parking lot over here, the federal parking lot, where they put the Chappie James building, St. Joe’s, and all that over there, the federal court parking lot was Mr. Field’s Grocery Store. A whole lot of houses was owned by Blacks. Like I said, they stayed on that side of the street out there on Intendencia. So, I could say that right now my house is the only original house that’s sitting on Intendencia right now. All the other homes been tore down, and Miss Hazel Johnson owns the only original house on De Villiers and Intendencia. All the homes has been just gone. They just gone. As you just look around the area, there is no houses being built that looked like the homes that were down here because they not affordable for the few people that still live within the Tanyard. There are still some homes, but they across A Street and Intendencia and C, B, and D Street and that area. There is a few homes, but, with the homes being built and the taxes going up, I’m not sure they going to be able to continue to live in their homes and pay high tax. I think that’s the way that they either want to get them out of their homes and make them pay extra tax, you know whatever. It’s really sad in a lot of ways. I’m not saying that peoples don’t have a right to live where they want to live, but I just know money and power is a controlling situation for peoples. When you have poor peoples having to deal with





gentrification taking over their community, you just really feel some kind of way about it because you don’t feel like there’s no protection for you when peoples come in and look at your home and they have a two or 300,000 dollar house next to you. Then, the city tries, “Oh, you’re taxes not going up”. But, that’s not true because you’re lying to the peoples because how can they taxes not go up when you got a $300,000 house sitting right there by them, $500,000 house. I’ve been the association president trying to just fight for the peoples in a lot of ways because I do know there is programs that possibly can help them fix their homes for what I was told through the City of Pensacola. But peoples have to understand what they getting themselves into because getting that money from the city, there is chances and things that you need to know because they don’t want to fix the inside. They want to fix the outside, and they want to make the outside look beautiful so that mean your taxes still going up because now it looking good so they gonna take your taxes and, if you can’t afford them, then you lose your property too. They’ll tell me, “Oh no, Miss Marilynn, that’s not true.” I said, “Yes, it is because anything have a lien on it, you can lose it.” So, if you got a lien on something, how is you not gonna lose it? If the lien don’t expand to three years in order for you to be forgiven with that loan, of course you could lose your property, so I been trying to make sure that I stay in this position so I can let peoples understand. There is a few peoples down there. I just don’t want to see them being misused by anyone because they old. They have worked for their homes, whether they a beautiful house or whether it is small house, but, if they could live in it, they have a right to live in their homes, just like they have a right





to be in their homes. So, I think there need to be things that keep people from losing their homes. Keep them from feeling some kind of way. You know, we as peoples, we have to be considerate sometimes because like I say I have seen some things go on down in the Tanyard. I heard some things that I could believe today that I have been told by so many people. People say, “Ms. Marilynn, we been called “niggers” and blasé blasé”. Everybody’s not that way. There’s a few peoples come in and make it bad for the whole community. I have some people stay across the street from me, and they nice peoples. We get along fine. I try not to see color. I just try to see peoples, but you still have to pay attention since some people make it bad for other peoples in the community. There’s changes. I don’t think there’s just changes in the Tanyard. I think it’s changes everywhere because everywhere I go I can see new homes being built. It make the community look nicer. It’s just that a lot of peoples cannot afford, the older peoples today just can’t afford it. It is what it is. What else you wanna ask?

	M:	So, I am wondering, when did you first notice gentrification? When did you become aware of gentrification as an issue here?

	W:	I became aware of gentrification when I really realized something was going on was after Hurricane Matthew when the man came and built that building right there by the park. Once Corrine Jones Recreation Center was messed up by Hurricane Ivan and they decided that they didn’t want to bring that building back and say that they merged Sanders Beach and Corrine Jones Center together, there has been some issues in the community because, for all the time that we really stayed in the Tanyard, the city of Pensacola never came to do anything,





put up a light. But, once gentrification took control, they decided that they needed to fix up some stuff, and they wanting to, right now, work on the drain system because my brothers was going out in the road pushing cars, helping Black and White people, pushing their cars out the road because it was a flooded area, always been flooded-out houses. They did nothing. Once they decided that they was gonna put Corrine Jones down there with Sanders Beach and merge it together, they claimed for the benefit of the peoples, but the Black peoples don’t go to Sanders Beach or Corrine Jones because you can’t go. You have to pay money, and there is a nice young lady there who run it because I have a Tanyard Association meeting every month. She is a great person. She has nothing to do with it. But it’s just the city itself how they put that place there. They put the Sanders Beach and Corinne Jones Recreation building together, and you can’t be there. It costs you about $2,000 to have an event over there. They have exercise equipment up in there, and Black peoples can’t go up in there. When we had Corinne Jones Recreation Center, they used to hand out free lunches for the community to the kids, oranges, milk, and stuff, you know for the kids that was out during the summer. They did things, and nothing has been done to help the community since they merged it with Sanders Beach and nothing. You can’t go there. Now, I’m even being told by some of the young peoples that the police was telling the young peoples that they could not be in the Corinne Jones Park. They came to me, and I was saying “What is really the issue down here?” because we never had that issue. When they was at the park playing, they was playing. I found out that, when kids get stressed out, I think going and playing basketball





really help their stress. They felt some kind of way when the police came and told them that they couldn’t be in the park, so I got in touch with Judy [inaudible 54:30]. I said to her that, if there is a reason that those kids can’t be in the park, they need to post a sign indicating what time the park can open and what time it close because we don’t want no issues where nobody child is going get killed because they talking back to the police officer and stuff about being angry because they feel some kind of way about the community they have lived in all their lives. So now they see. I was even told about one of the new homes down on Intendencia who have some rebel flags up on their porch right now, hanging up on the porch. These peoples came out within the Tate area out there in [inaudible 53:45]. So, the people said, “You know what kind of folks you dealing with now because they got some rebel flags, Miss Marilynn, on their porch.” [Laughter] I’m saying to myself, “Okay.” So, one man said, “Well, maybe you need to go to talk to them.” So, my daughter said, “Yeah, we do need to speak with them because, first of all, we never had an issue. We haven’t been fighting between us and them, so don’t come to our community pulling this type of behavior having peoples feeling some kind of way to start up a mess because this is how you get mess, we say, starting. So, I haven’t spoke with them. I haven’t said anything because they got so many laws in place now- the Stand Your Ground law. You go talking to people, the next thing you know you dead and they claiming Stand Your Ground. You have to be careful how you raise your voice to peoples and talk because they come pulling out guns, shooting people which is a disgrace. There are some issues. We have more issues right now than





we ever had before. We never had these issues, so now we see them coming on. I had to speak to some contractors who been at the house next door to me about their behavior. They decide they just gonna turn around with they tractor- trailer in my yard, but I say, “You can’t turn around in my yard because this property wasn’t bought by the peoples that you working for and, unless you want to talk to me and ask me and respect me, it’s not that I may say no but you haven’t even gave me enough respect to ask me. If you just looked over here like I wasn’t over here, and I’m not gonna put up with it. So, if that’s how you feel, you need to make sure you turn your tractor around in that yard and don’t come in mine’s, okay? Being disrespectful is something I just refuse to tolerate. I told him, “This our property, and if you don’t feel like you need to come over here and say, “Miss Marilynn, there may be an issue, and I’m just wondering can I turn around?” But to look over here and see me and act like, “Okay, hmm”. I don’t think so. [Laughter] Anyway, I’m not a difficult person. I just feel like fairness is fairness. I’ll take it for anyone; it doesn’t matter how you’re looking. I just feel like, if that old lady being taken advantage of, I need to come speak to you to let you know that this lady don’t have to be taken advantage of by you no matter what her situation may be. But, like I say, I seen more problems for this community since the gentrification has taken control of it today than I ever seen in the last fifty years. We been staying here fifty years. People just need to look around and treat each other right. That’s all I can say about it, and we need to try to get along with each other, even though they in our community. Some of the Black peoples are very angry about it. I don’t think it’s because they moved, I think it’s their





attitude, the attitude that they have seen from them that have made them angry. Hey, we got some peoples say to me, “Why they got they garbage can in they front yard? They need to take they can on the back. They need to do this. They need to do that.” They even say, “Well, they got all this stuff out on they porch. They need to move it off of there.” And, I say, “Well, when you came to this community, I know you saw all these halfway houses across the street. We have three halfway houses. So, if you decide that you didn’t want to move over here, you shouldn’t have built your home. But you can’t come and determine that those peoples across the street shouldn’t be here because you be at your house.

Because they was here when you came and you looked out the door and saw them, and you should’ve decided, “Well, okay, I’m gonna go across the street” because you want that person to pull they garbage can to the back. But, there is no law to say that they need to move they garbage can to the back. The law say they don’t need their garbage cans sitting on the sidewalk, pull it in they yard.

The code enforcement didn’t come and move it because they called code enforcement on the peoples about the garbage cans, and I seen some of them use the people’s property that still own property down here without permission. But once they finish using it, then they want to get code enforcement to send them letters to make them cut they grass. And, I said, “Well, why didn’t you cut it? You was using they property without permission. Don’t you think it should’ve been cut if you was over there using it?” Right now, I have a guy who think that we should put our stuff on the sidewalk on our side of the street. But, like I told him, you don’t own the sidewalk, and you can’t determine where nobody put they





trash. This is how you keep confusion going to me. He White, and I seen him and the White neighbor get into it about the sidewalk and the trash and this and that. I tried to encourage them to tell them where they could put the trash so they don’t have no mess going on between each other. Calling the police on your neighbors is not a good thing because when things happen in the community and they may help you, they won’t. That’s why I try to be fair about it all the way around, and I am very outspoken about the things and the compassion that I feel with the fact that I know Mr. Studer want to put that complex bill in here and I don’t see no use. I don’t see no reason for it because its not gonna benefit the peoples down here. It’s only going to make him some money and keep his legacy going. But, we have Andrew Institution and Guthrie. We don’t need another bill for that, and, if that building is not going to be beneficial to the peoples down here in the Tanyard, it don’t need to be here anyway because a lot of peoples can’t afford this type of stuff. If you not gonna let the poor and the needy peoples into that building, what is the purpose of it? Like I said, I wanna see a grocery store because a grocery store would be beneficial to all of us. We could go to the grocery store, won’t have to go to Publix. We could have our own little grocery store out there. Peoples would love to have a grocery store. It don’t have to be small. I talked to some of the White neighbors. “Yeah, Miss Marilynn, that’s a good idea. Put us a grocery store across there where that property that you want to give away.” But, like I said, gentrification has took control, and there is nothing that you can really do about it, no matter how mad you get, because they wanna put motels over on Club. The people say to me, “Once they do that, the water,





we can’t see nothing no more. It’s gonna be facing Main Street so that take away us from seeing anything, so y’all got us blocked all in, boxed in, and our kids still has nowhere to really play. There have been some issues, I’ve been told. I haven’t had any with them, but I’ve been told about how the kids come to the park, how the White people act like the Black kids and the Black folks don’t supposed to be at this park. So, I’m saying, “Is this true? Is this real?” So, anyway, I just know that it creates a problem for peoples when this type of stuff happens, but you can’t tell peoples where to move. You cannot tell them where to build their homes. You can’t tell them how to spend their money. Most of the time, I think we as people don’t know what’s going on because we fail to take ourselves to the county commission meeting, city council meeting, and find out what they are really doing, and, when you don’t know, they pull all type of stuff.

Right now, the Federal parking lot what they built for the Chappie James building, they won’t even allow no one else to park in that area. The federal won’t let you park in that parking lot, but they employees park all up and down these streets.

They won’t even park in the parking lot, but they getting in the other people’s way which don’t make sense. So, why don’t you park where you supposed to park?

Because your job will not allow a civilian to go get on there, and it’s crazy. Then, I think a lot of peoples are upset by how they have the Maritime Park and how people just park all up and down the street, all in front of your doors. Just go on and do what they wanna do basically down here now. That’s what’s going on, and you can’t stop it. It is singular unfair. I hope you got something out of this.

	M:	Oh yeah.





	W:	Like I say, I came down here I was just getting in middle school, and you have to imagine, I’m over sixty and my son is fort-seven. I didn’t have no childrens or anything, and I have four. Like I say, take a look around and try to hold on to part of our history on DeVilliers Street where it was basically predominate Black. They can say what they wanna say, but that’s gone. We have the Sabers Club and the Bunny Club. Once they get rid of that, they’ll come on. Nothing. All that history torn down. Because the buildings and stuff within that area, everything being wiped away. There’s nothing. Maybe one or two houses. I did see a teacher who was my teacher. Her home is still okay. It’s on Coral. Her name is Miss Sanders. Golden Elementary School–she was a teacher there. I believe she dead today, but her house still sit on Coral Street. Other than that, all those doctors’ offices and things that was down on DeVilliers Street. Sunbeam Bread Company was there when we moved down here. When Reverend Phelps got that building, the Dwarf was located there on the same side where the Five Blues Sisters. That used to be the Dwarf Chicken Stand. That’s the best chicken you ever wanted to eat in your life, baby. You couldn’t get one set, but you had to get two or three.

They have another one there on that side. 8506 was where that tall building over there, and they had a package store. They sold liquor on the front. I was told they want to put a motel right there. So, 8506 had a ballroom like San Carlos. Where the federal new courthouse, that was San Carlos Motel. It had the biggest ballroom you ever seen. It was beautiful inside. I thought they should have reconstructed that building. It was history. 8506 building shouldn’t have been torn down. It was history. It was one of the first buildings that Joe Tex the singer,





Millie Jackson, and all them blues singers, Aretha Franklin, everybody came to the 506. They had a ballroom with a stage. I slipped in there. I was a young girl going up in there trying to see. I probably went there twice in my life, but it was beautiful in the 506. Everything done wiped away really within the area, too. As they continue to go up in there–and I know eventually, maybe I’ll say about another ten years, it won’t be nothing there but houses. And, I’m not sure the Tanyard name is still gonna be the Tanyard. It is right now. But I know in they heart they wanna change it because, me being the president of the Tanyard Association, I got some stuff from the city of Pensacola wants to name this Maritime District. They sent me the signs and stuff, and it was Maritime District. I said, “But this is not Maritime District, this is Tanyard.” So, I will not do it.

Gentrification can come in, true enough, but why do our name where we lived at all our life need to be changed to something different because you wanna move down here?

	M:	It’s always been called the Tanyard?



	W:	This always been the Tanyard. This never been nothing but the Tanyard, so for y’all to want to take the Tanyard name away and make it out to Maritime District, for real? Down on 8th street, you talking about the Maritime District. But, the Maritime Park is located off of DeVilliers right here. It’s not on 8th street, so it just seem like to me that you would want to beautify DeVilliers Street, want to put the pretty big lights up so when peoples come up that way that it’d be pretty, like lit all up, having nice ornaments. I gradually see them working, but they working to get all of the Black peoples out of the community. That’s what they want. They





don’t want no Black peoples down here, and that’s true. They want it to be like [inaudible 39:23], and they want to surround them there. There is nowhere for Black peoples to go down here. There’s not no clubs really within here.

Somebody told me, “Miss Marilynn, it got fixed up.” It ain’t for us. It’s bad, but, like I said, you change peoples with love. That’s all you keep on doing. Trying to show them that, I guess, Michelle Obama said, “If they go low, you go high.” That’s all you can do. I have many friends that’s White, and we always be friends. I guess they just don’t understand sometimes. They think, “Well, Ms.

Marilynn, why do you feel like you do?” We done lived through it. I can tell one of my members that I don’t want a tragedy down here from the police department and somebody’s Black child, son, because we know what kind of relationship that our kids have with police officers. The reason why we have to tell our kids not to move or not to do some things in fear that they gonna say, “Well, they moved, and I shot them.” So, I said, “You can’t tell me because your son don’t have to put his hands up in the air because he’s scared.” Unless you wanna jump on board with me and talk with them about making sure that, if you gonna tell me that this park close at twelve o’clock, you need to post a sign that say from seven to twelve so that, when the kids come and they look at the sign, they know, “Well, man, we can’t be out here then no later than twelve.” So, they got to go home.” But, for you to come over here and harass these people’s kids, then ya’ll get a big mess going down there, and they start cursing you out and saying stuff. But, now you wanna put him in handcuffs, for real? You just bringing on problems in a community where it wouldn’t be none, and that’s what I keep fighting for–to make





sure things don’t go that way down here because we never had that problem. The city police department ain’t my favorite, but we need police officers no matter how we feel about it, okay? Several peoples did get killed. The police killed several Black people. I know when I was a child coming up. I remember the last person I know was a Black–I think [inaudible 36:46]–up on Palafox. It used to a Pleasing Grocery Store over there. Pleasing used to sit right there where the lab where you shot blood?

	M:	Oh, okay.



	W:	Pleasing used to sit up there where P. K. Yonge School? You my be too young to know, but the FDLE building, the Florida Department of Law Enforcement, that was P.K. Yonge School. And, Pleasing Grocery Store, I remember the young man got killed. I can’t remember everything that happened over there, but I remember he did get killed. As we come from the community of Shantytown down the street from Baptist Hospital where my cousin’s son have a big old building over there–his club–but he haven’t had it open. It used to be Nolan Grocery Store right there down the road from Baptist on E and Jordan, and then right there used to be Colt’s Grocery Store. I remember the White man killed my mama’s friend up in there. My mother and the guy went in that store. I don’t know what happened up in there, but Mr. Bo Diddley died. Up on 8th Street, the building shut down there was a [inaudible 35:28] store. One of our friends got killed. He was young. His name was Alan. The White guy shot and killed him up there. Now, those some tragedies that happened within the area that we live right in here. The Tanyard area was close, and the Tanyard, Belmont, and DeVilliers





Street was never no separation like it is today. It was the Tanyard. That’s what they called it. So, then they separated it, and they divided up Belmont and DeVillier’s Street and then the Tanyard.

	M:	Who did that?



	W:	You know, I don’t know how it happened, but I know since they have a Belmont for the homeowner’s association. But, what I’m saying to you that, when we was running up and down there, there was no difference. We came from the Tanyard, and we was the Tanyard. We just went within that area, so everybody know.

Yeah, it really has changed a lot because I noticed how the police don’t hang down there and harass the White kids and peoples on Belmont and DeVilliers Street. The Black kids couldn’t go down there. They was out taking your tag number, walking up and down harassing you, just doing stuff, but you don’t see that going on. They can stay out there with their drinks and drink all day long till they fall, and you don’t see nobody coming to harass them, okay? That’s what the Black peoples talk about. You may see a few Black peoples on Belmont and DeVilliers Street, but they don’t go down there. They don’t. They don’t go. Ain’t nowhere for them to go every now and then. As a matter of fact, I haven’t been to the Maritime Park since they opened. Ain’t that sad? I never been there. Don’t care to spend my money there. Who can take two or three kids up in there? You paying almost ten dollars for a hot dog, a drink, and some Coca-Colas. You been there before?

	M:	No, I haven’t.





	W:	Well, I’m just telling you, you can’t afford to go in there. Even some of the neighbors, the new neighbors, talk about how loud the music. They pop firecrackers. I know I was looking at my watch. It was 10:20, but you supposed to have an ordinance for some noise down here. But, if the people claiming we was loud, you wanna send the police. If you sick in your bed and somebody popping some firecrackers, and, when they turn on they music, we can hear the music all the way from Seville Park to our houses. When they got bands for three days, you have to tolerate this type of stuff, and nobody offer you a free ticket to the baseball game or nothing over there. That’s what we talk about and feel like we can’t get nothing done when you start complaining. Even the contractors, they come and work on Sundays when they don’t supposed to. When you question them about it and call the police, the police gonna take you to jail by asking them to go tell them that they don’t supposed to do this. I talked to the mayor who I campaigned for, Mr. Grover Robinson, to get him in the seat. Stood out there twelve hours passing out flyers. He said, “Well, Ms. Marilynn, you need to just call the police and let them know that they need to send someone out there to talk to the contractors.” If you working seven days a week, the peoples deserve a quiet day, at least on Sunday, but they don’t even want to give you that quiet day. They want to beat on what they want. When you say something to them, the police come, and they so nasty, too. They want to get all mad with you. “Well, you know, this and that.” But, are you working for the mayor, or who you work for because the mayor told me to call so I need to know that you gonna do your job. Trying to act like I’m the person that doing something wrong. Today is Sunday,





sir. Sick peoples in they bed. They don’t wanna hear hammer knocking early in the morning. I’m telling you the truth. Things do happen down here that shouldn’t, and peoples don’t feel like there’s no justification for them to get nothing done because they got the attitude now. We down here now, and we stuck. So, I deal with this on an everyday basis, but, for me myself, I think I have some good neighbors and I try to be a good neighbor for them. I just try to encourage them to say to them, “Listen, if you want things done, you have to embrace peoples for being who they are and encourage them to do things. If you want to see the yard look better, go out there and say, ‘Hey, we want to paint a little bit.’ If you see them doing something, ‘We’ll help you.’” I said to my association, “Let’s give out a gift card to go out to take them out to eat and put the sign up in the yard, Tanyard Neighborhood Association The Best Yard, improved yard. Put it up for like three months. Display it. Have a pretty sign with flowers. Somebody else pass by and say, “They got they yard up. Maybe we need to clean our yard up, make it look pretty” and get them a gift card for fifty dollars. Two people can eat, right? I’d be glad to get me one! [Laughter] I told my neighbors, “That’s what we got to do.” You can’t make neighbors mad. You move them in the neighborhood. Try to encourage peoples to do better. That’s how you get people to work. If they be looking mad, you say, “Good morning! How you doing?” [Laughter] I believe in all that. I was taught that, when we was coming up, to encourage people. I say, “Good morning! How is everything going with you?” And then, the White lady, my neighbor, she come sit on the porch with me. She bring me some coffee. She say, “Ms. Marilynn, where you at?” They call me on the phone. When they got





ready to move, they come to my house. “They told us you was the nicest neighbor in the neighborhood.” I ain’t got time to be trying to hate people! [Laughter] I haven’t got time for all that. I can truly say that they have been good because when one family, a man and his wife, Miss Roberts, they throwed a party to tell the neighbors they appreciate them letting them move up in they house, into the community. That wasn’t something they had to do. They had a nice party. They had barbequed ribs and all kinds of stuff. They said, “Ms.

Marilynn, where you at?” I liked it there. We had Christine living in our neighborhood. She not very friendly. An anchor woman, Christine, she was an anchor on the news. She wasn’t very friendly at all. But, I just know you can shame people by being nice and kind to them. That’s all. Be nice to them. You shame them. They get shamed. [Laughter] You remember that! You live in a neighborhood, and, if the storm come blow your house down, it blow mine down. All us in the same little boat. We ain’t got no house. [Laughter] So, I just ignore them. That’s the way it goes. But, like I say, it ain’t all bad. No matter where you go, you gonna find some racists, and that’s the truth. Somebody gonna look cross there that they don’t like you. They just don’t like you Black, they don’t like you White, Chinese, whatever. Me, I just put on my clothes and go on out the door and wave my hand. That’s what I do. When you get older, you just have to realize that peoples are who they are. Some of them will change. Right now, I got a little niece stay next door to a guy. Her husband tried to cut the man’s yard. He just as mean. But, soon one day he just gave on in. When he came back, my nephew had cut his grass and everything, had it looking so pretty across there.





They car done gone. They cut his grass and everything. He a older man. He just mean. I said, “Keep going across there cutting his grass. He’ll shut up then.” [inaudible 26:49] I sure do thank you. Mister, you are old. You need help. Thank somebody for cutting your grass. It’s hot. He said, “Auntie Marilynn, that man so mean.” Some of them just like that. Now, my dad was mean, too. He really was. He had to keep on working them. He used to them little boys out the back door. They come through the front; he run them out the back. When he run them out the back, they’d come back through the front when he ain’t looking. They’d come on back and play with my little boy. They was gone. Every little boy except Mr.

Johnny. He was running us home, but they came right back. They ain’t stop coming. They come every day until my daddy just gave up. He started asking where they were. “Where Bobo?” You were running them home, but they didn’t give up. They came every day, and they say, “Mr. Johnny, Mr. Wiggins.” Somebody needing to go to the store and get a drink. They walking through the store. They were so nice my daddy had to stop treating them that way, okay?

And, that’s the way it goes. You just keep being nice. No matter what neighborhood you come from because I still say when the storm come blow your house down, it ain’t gonna miss mine, is it? Everybody house be tore down, so now we know we got to get together because we all in the same boat. We don’t have no place to stay, right? So now we feel more better with each other. You can’t take nothing down in the graveyard, son. You gonna be still left there. I told them Michael Jackson could come back, Whitney Houston, Prince, Elvis Presley, anybody. They’ll have a story to tell you. Everything they accomplished went





down. They went in the grave, and they stayed right here. Somebody messing it up don’t give a damn how they throw all the money away and spent it up. It’s gone, and you said that they’re worried about it. Have yourself a good time while you’re living because when you’re gone, it’s over. We just foolish people just don’t treat each other right. Got so much money here some of them don’t know what to do with it. Just mistreat ya, but it’s alright because don’t no one live forever. That’s all I can say. I don’t worry about it. I just really don’t, but, like I say, things changing, not just in this community. If you go over there by Gus Powers, you go over on Martin Luther King Drive, you’ll see new homes up in there. If you go around on Davis, you’ll see White peoples are moving in every Black community. Where they used to not live in our community, they’re moving in.

They feel confidence that they can live next door to us, and I think that’s a good thing. Well, I feel confidence I can move next door to you without you killing me because I stay next door, and we should be content and comfortable enough to feel that way. We should. We should be able to do what we wanna do, but you just can’t treat people any kind of way. You should be able to move where you want, and that’s the way I feel about it. Don’t nothing last forever, and nothing is gonna stay the same because, like I said, we moved out here J.J. Newberry’s,

J.C. Penney’s, Sears Roebuck, Alabaster’s, Bush Jewelry store. All type of other things was downtown. They moved them into the mall. Then, I see them go way out there and shut down the whole mall, University Mall, to come back and rebuild it, put more stores out there. So, the same place that they left, they came back downtown. So, peoples looking for ways of making money to redevelop





things, and that’s what they doing. Like I say, its not a bad idea. It’s just that peoples need places to stay–White and Blacks–affordable houses. Everybody not rich and don’t have money, so we should consider building affordable homes. The same school I went to, Blount Middle School, they putting new houses up there, but they not affordable homes. Peoples with a $40,000 job can’t pay three or $400,000 for houses, so peoples need somewhere to stay. My onlyest issue is that we need to consider building homes for poor peoples, working class peoples, first-time home buyers. The city, the county, and everybody need to work to help them get affordable houses because it’s just not a Black person need a house. It’s just not a Black person on Section 8 HUD. Its not just Black peoples on food stamps. We have a lot of peoples who work very hard, fell on hard items, and they need things. And, we should be willing to give it to them, at least to help them. I worked forty-two years of my life to still not being able to afford some things I want. So, I know how they feel. It’s not no lot of money being made, okay? But, peoples just still should have decent homes. Everybody should have a decent place to live. Me, I worry about the poor peoples. I worry about the homeless. I don’t care–if a White man come knock on my door, tell me he’s homeless, I’m gonna go in my house and find some food to feed him. If a Black man come up here, I’m gonna do the same thing. He gonna say, “Ma’am, I’m hungry; I don’t have nothing to eat.” I just don’t feel like I could rest if he knock on my door and tell me, and I have had them knock on my door and pass by and just ask me, say, “Ma’am, I’m so hungry.” I say, “Wait right here”, and go in the house and cook, then bring it back. That’s who I am. I’m just who I am. I don’t





care about what color you are. Sometimes they say, “Well, momma, them people, you don’t know who that is”. Okay, I don’t know who it is, but whatever it is for me, and if its death, you can’t stop me, but I’m still gonna go cook and bring the food back. If they done crazy, and they want to do something to me, let them go on. I’m not worried about it. If that’s my destiny, it will be there because I’m still gonna feed them. Now I made friends, and they laugh and come back and do all kind of stuff for me. That’s the way I am. I don’t know how to be nobody else. That’s why the neighbors call me on the phone, the White ones, and say, “Miss Marilynn, where you at?” Sometimes, they come knocking on the door. They say, “Well, we ain’t seen you. We thought you was sick.” And, that’s a good thing. Peoples might not believe, but sometimes you may be in your house sick and can’t get up. Somebody knock on my door and say, “Miss Marilynn, are you home?” I’m honest. They knock on the door, and they brought me soup. Go to the store bring me all kinds of stuff back, they say, “Here.” So now, all people’s not bad. I don’t care whether they White or Black, and they not bad peoples. I got some great neighbors, I think. They White, but they good neighbors. I go knock on they door; they knock on mine. They call me; I call them, see how they doing. I’ll go check on them, see if they sick. I goes to check on them. I go pick up paper. I pull out garbage cans and do all kind of little stuff. That’s just showing peoples that, no matter what you may think, it don’t have to be the way people say it is. It can be the way we want it. A great neighborhood. Let’s just come together and get on one accord, and let’s just help each other, and let’s stop showing all this racist stuff. And, I said stuff, but I’m concerned about peoples





dying and kids getting murdered and killed. I think the polices need training in a lot of things because all of them not bad, but you got to train them so that they need to come into our community and get to know us as peoples. Come knock on the door. They need to be paid decent salaries, too. They don’t make no money, and people sit up and talk about the peoples in the military, this and that. But, those people chose those jobs just like the polices chose theirs. If y’all gonna give them a lot of money, pay them too. Pay them more than $45,000.

Pay them some great money. Let them get good loans. Let them have great benefits. Let the fire department guys have great benefits. I don’t care about what color they are. Hell, they going up in there, risking they life trying to pull somebody out of a house, but you don’t want to pay them? You don’t think they worthy of a good, decent salary? I do. You pay the police department, get them guys on track, tell them this is your area. You go out and you knock on them people’s doors, and you say, “I’m Officer So and So. This is my area. I’ll be out here controlling this area. I just want you to know who I am.” Make peace with the peoples so they trust you enough they say, “Okay, well Officer So and So over here, we can go talk to him.” That’s what you have to do. That’s how you get things together. That’s how you get peoples together by coming out talking to them, not making enemies with the peoples. They get mad and, when they start talking bad about you, then you get pissed. Come on out. Tell me who you are. I want to know. And, make peace with the peoples. Like I tell my Black neighbors, “Y’all mad with the peoples, but they got a right to live where they want.” That’s what we fought for all our lives–to be part of where we wanted to go, so now, why





do y’all not think that these White peoples got the same rights that y’all got? Now, I just want to be fair. Let them stay where they want to. Be good to them. I seen a lot of them put in the effort to try to work it out, but y’all wanna be angry. But, you can’t be mad with no one because this where they wanna go. Leave it alone. It’ll work itself out, like I said. You just gotta come out your house and be a little bit more mindful of the way you do things and say things to people. I go over there and laugh with them. Got some lemonade for you. Here you some cold lemonade. Drink up. [Laughter] That’s the way you handle them. They are thirsty. Get some good, cold lemonade with some ice up in here when it’s hot, and I wanna drink it with them. [Laughter] But anyway, I just like to have fun, son. You probably younger than my son. But, it is what it is like I said. Gentrification everywhere. It ain’t just in the Tanyard. I just desire them to keep the Tanyard name because this is Tanyard. It don’t matter what y’all change down here.

There was still prostitution down here. It was still things going on that part of history. Everybody knew about it, but y’all can’t wipe it out. When they start talking about the Tanyard, it gonna still be the same mess that went on. It’s still history, and it’s still gonna be our Black people’s history down here. No matter what they say. Y’all came into a Black community, build y’all a big fancy house, but we still talking about it because it is what we came from the Tanyard.

Remember, I was a girl just going to middle school, sure was. I got four kids, eight grandchildren, so now they running around here. They graduated. One of them become a lawyer. He live in Dallas. One of them took real estate, hope he can pass his test. One wanna be a journalist. One want to be a music engineer.





They good kids. They haven’t never been on drugs. My grandson down in Miami running that ball, say he wanna be like Julio Jones, wide receiver. Odell Beckham was the man, but he done changed. I said, “Well, what happened to Odell Beckham?” He say, “I want to be like Julio.” So, hey, they have dreams.

We have them too for our kids. Not just my kids, just all kids. I wanna see them go down to the park. Don’t bring your child over to the park and make him feel like he shouldn’t play with that little White kid or he shouldn’t play with that little Black child. You get yourself somewhere and sit down, let these kids have a good time, because they gonna grow up with each other if they want to and we ain’t going to be able to do a damn thing about it. They falling in love, going about they business, and, if you try to get in they way, they don’t come back to see you no more so…[Laughter] We can’t stop it, and I’m serious. You can’t stop letting these kids go on. When you look up at them TV, you see them shaking and all up there together, don’t you? Don’t you like them TV? I know you like to see them shaking it! Then, it stun you, and you just wasting up your time trying to keep folks apart. Whatever y’all wanna do, baby, go on on. Just stop doing all this crazy stuff. I tell Mr. Studer I got some White peoples campaigning. They don’t want to see that bill. They mad with Studer. They the middle class peoples work too, but they just feel like, hey, he got plenty of money. He just wanna push us all out of our neighborhood to get what he want. That’s how they feeling. They don’t want to see all that mess. They said they want to see the water, too. They want to go to Bruce Pool, and you put all that mess down there. But, like I said, when you got money, you do a lot of mess to people. They make them feel some kind





of way, and we gonna be fighting down there. They may win, but we still gonna be letting them know that we disapprove of the things that they doing. That’s the way it go, and, if I be here, I still be fighting with them. That’s all I want you to know. Whatever you print up, it’s okay with me. It’s just the truth. Ain’t no need to sugarcoating it. This was the area that we came to. We got ran home. I was scared. White men looking for Black womens. That’s what they did. As they found out that everybody [inaudible 10:32] had been moved out, I guess they start coming. They got in with my dad, and I’m not lying. He gave them hell. That Black man, he gave them hell. But, I grew up with some good ones right next door. Bobby [inaudible 10:11] house sit right here, that red brick house right there. The [inaudible 10:08] boy got burned up in the fire department. Eric Streeter was a police officer. He married Carolyn Streeter. He worked for the sheriff’s department at the county. He got murdered over on the other side over there off of Alcaniz, Martin Luther King Drive, where he was over there. He was over by the Grain. They put all the Habitat houses over there. Anyway, Mr.

Streeter got murdered. His brother-in-law, Bobby [inaudible 9:39], was a police officer for the county police department. They house sit right there, the onlyest red brick house on the corner out there on Government. Bobby [inaudible 9:29] was my classmate. We rode to school together. Then, there was another White guy, and they house on Government Street. His name was Tommy. He a teacher. He was my classmate. We rode to school with him in the mornings some, and that was way back in the [19]60s. That’s why I said everybody did not have a bad day down here. We got along. We was friends, and we played





together and laughed together. Some of us kissed and went round the little corner. Little White boy [inaudible 9:00] When I stopped being scared, me and him went round the building and kissed and all kind of stuff, too. [Laughter] So, it wasn’t all bad. I’m just telling you it wasn’t all bad down there, but it was our history. You just remember. Like I said, the Salvation Army was down there, Pfeifer’s, and all type of stuff right on that corner. The cleaners and Mr. Rug and Shade around the corner. It was a good place to be. We had fun.

	M:	Sounds like it.



	W:	It was. We did. We wasn’t fighting each other. We just had straight-up fun down in the Tanyard. Mr. [inaudible 8:16] the store, he used to run us out of there. We all go up in there and get this little candy and run out the door. He’d run to get us. He finally knew who our parents was and told on us. Told our dad and momma, and we got a whooping. But, we was friends. They was our friends up in that little store. Oh, he found out where them houses was. They closed they store and came right on to your dad and mom’s house and told on you, told him that we was up in there getting they candy and didn’t pay and ran out the door. So, we ended up having to mop the floor at the store or do some work for doing stuff.

Like I said, it was good. It was a good learning experience. Peoples are peoples, and we got some good ones and bad ones in every part of life and that’s about it. Make your book up or write it up or whatever you wanna print. It was good times down in Tanyard. I think I had more good times than I did bad times down here. Mr. Johnnie Cascone was a police officer. He had the little building right on the corner. He was a city police officer. He was my father’s friend. He had a little





store right on the corner of Government, a little building, right out there, right across the street, the parking lot. His sister, Miss Marie Cascone, I stayed next door to her house, and she worked for the city at the city hall. We was friends. She was a older lady, but she stayed next door. Right next to our house was two White ladies and three Black peoples, and they was all made just like ours. On the corner, the last house was my cousin and momma. His name was James Purify. He was a singer. He sung “I’m Your Puppet”. That song–[Sings.] pull my little string. They stayed. Their house is right in there, too. Right here. James Purify and Bobby Purify. They made “I’m Your Puppet” song. Mr. Johnnie, he was a good man, and him and my daddy became friends in his store. I think I got some lamps from him. I was eighteen or nineteen and had my first little house, and he basically gave them to me. So I went to work for his sister, too. Her name was Miss Riley. She was a state trooper as a matter of fact. Her husband was an exterminator. I had to be about seventeen. I kept they three kids. One night, I was at Pensacola High School–my son played football–and I went to hollering and screaming. Little girl touching me on the back, and she say, “Hey, Miss Marilynn!” I’m looking, “Oh, look there’s that girl”, and she went to telling me about how I had made them clean up a lot because they didn’t know how to clean up or made them clean up. They had one little brother, and there were three little girls. They was some pretty little girls and the little boy was too, but he was lazy. You can’t get him to do nothing. So, I had them working every time I came over there. I had them going up under their bed cleaning up all they shoes, and they told me thank you. She said, “Thank you, Miss Marilynn, because we





learned how to clean up.” They told me who they was. They say, “We Miss Riley’s kids”. I say, “What?”, looking around. I say, “Where your little brother?” They say, “Hey! He’s down there.” He came up there and jumped around my neck. “Hey, Miss Marilynn.” They was White kids, too. I kept them, and there was a young girl. Mr. Johnnie say, “My sister needs someone, Miss Marilynn, to watch her children while she go to work. Her house still around there. You know Shoreline Grocery Store? Off of Main? It’s right down there when you go around Sanders Beach. It around that curve. I look over there every time. They still own the house around there. Johnny Cascone’s house right up here off of Spring where the library. Around the corner, you’ll see Cascone on the house if you go in there. Mr. Johnnie’s deceased, though. He died, but he was a good cop for the city of Pensacola, was a city police officer. He used to always tell my daddy, “Johnny, them old boys, they just late”, talking about my brothers. [Laughter] My daddy go and spend all his money trying to get them out of trouble. But, he was a good police man, so I say I grew up with plenty of polices. They was White, and I knew all of them. We wasn’t brought up to be racist ourselves. We wasn’t taught that type of stuff. We knew the difference in White and Black, but my parents just didn’t sit up and tell us to be that way. So, we didn’t grow up with it, and that’s why we knew how to deal with it. I just didn’t know how to deal with the mens running me around the corner when I was a little girl. I was scared, but my daddy took care of it. Honey, he dressed up in that dress. [Laughter] He was looking. If you missed anything, I know I’m talking to you all kinds of stuff, but it’s all true.

Like I said, we came down here to a community that just predominately Black. All





my kids went to Hallmark School, every one of them. They kind of sad that they tore the school down, so a lot of peoples upset about that school being tore down. You couldn’t blame them because they children went to that school and a lot of people went to that school. I met the peoples who house that we live in today. The man kept passing by looking up over there, and I go, Who is him?

Finally, he came and pulled on up, White guy, and that’s when he told me about the house, the trees, and the yard, everything. I was in the post office on Corry Road, and I put my address down. The lady’s looking at me, and she said, “You live at 416?” I said, “Yes, I do.” That’s when she said, “That was my grandmomma’s house.” And, she said, “You still live there?” I said, “I still live there. You welcome to come by any time you want.” So, the two brothers came by, got in the yard, asked me to keep that house because that’s the only house left. All of them tore down. They asked me, “Miss Marilynn, don’t tear it down.” But, I ain’t trying to tear it down. It’s just an old house, about a hundred fifteen years old. They didn’t want me to tear it down. It look good inside. It need a little work on the outside. If God bless me with some money, baby, I go on on and fix it. [Laughter] I might get the lotto! You make me an interview and get me some lot of money! I believe I’m gonna get some. I keep telling my kids. They say, “Momma!” I say, “You have to believe.” I’m gonna get me some money, honey. I’m about just as good as anybody else go get a ticket out there still. Y’all don’t believe me! One day. Then, they go tell, “My momma got the lotto! Yes, I got it!” Anyway, son, what is your name?

	M:	Ryan.





	W:	It just sure a pleasure, baby, to be laughing with you. Good laugh. So, anything else you want to know?

	M:	I think that’s great right there.



	W:	They just have to know Miss Marilynn got nothing but love in her heart, honey. I ain’t got time for hate. I don’t like to live like that. It just too much mess.

	M:	Well, thank you very much.



	W:	Honey, you is welcome, welcome, welcome. Whatever you decide to print is alright with me because it’s all true.

[End of interview.]











Transcribed by: Dewin Anguas Barnette, March 22, 2020





Audit-edited by: Sandra Romero, January 21, 2021





Final edited by: Sandra Romero, February 1, 2021