AAHP 146B; King; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 146B Roger King

African American History Project (AAHP) Interview conducted by Marna Weston on June 30, 2011

1 hour, 15 minutes | 37 pages



Abstract: This interview was conducted in front of an audience as part of an oral history workshop at Mt. Carmel United Methodist Church. Roger King relates his earliest memories of High Springs, Florida, and who his neighbors were in the area where he grew up. He also talks about the Black businesses that were running in his youth, and some White-owned businesses that catered to a Black clientele. He also talks about what conditions were like for the Black community during Jim Crow segregation in High Springs, and the sort of community that people built for themselves. He also offers some considerations of the impact and overall significance of the presidency of Barack Obama. Mr. King shares some stories about some of the professional athletes to come out of High Springs, including his brother who played for the Detroit Tigers, and Tracy Ham, who is in the Canadian Football League Hall of Fame.



[Keywords: African American History; Alachua County, Florida] Standards:

SS.912.A.2.5 Jim Crow laws

SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.

SS.912.A.7.5 Social activism































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 146B

Interviewee: Roger King Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: June 30, 2011



	W:	Okay, I want to thank you for taking the time to speak with us again. K:	You’re welcome!

	W:	So, on behalf of the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program at UF, and the Mt.



Carmel United Methodist Church who we’re working with, it’s just a great pleasure to speak with you. You mentioned in your previous interview your date of birth and all that other specific information, which normally what we do in interview, we would start with what we call the “deep background.” I would ask Mr. King to tell me when and where he was born. To tell me about his mom and dad, brothers and sisters, his place and date of birth. But since we already have that information, we’re going to talk tonight just about High Springs, Florida. So, Mr. King, could you please tell me your earliest memories of High Springs?

	K:	My earliest memory of High Springs must have been around, I would say around five years old. We raised chickens. [Laughter] And my brother and my job was to keep those chickens fed. And we would buy little baby chicks; we called them biddies. They would come in the box through the mail, and it would seem like we always got them in the cold months, so we had to keep them warm. We had a place outside—little cribs and things—for the baby chicks, and we would take the lanterns out at night, kerosene lanterns. And we would hang them up in the cribs so that the baby chicks could stay warm. And one night, it was so cold, my brother had already run out the back door with his lamp to put it in his crib, and I was coming behind him. As I was walking out the back door, he’s coming in the back door, and I’m holding my lantern in front of me, and he just ran right into the





lantern and it just went right into my stomach. That was a very early memory, because I’ll have that spot to take to my grave with me from where I got burnt. [Laughter] But I guess that’s kind of, as far as the excitement is concerned, kind of one of my first recollections.

	W:	Where did that take place at?



	K:	That took place at our home, here in High Springs.



	W:	Okay. Now, is that located here in High Springs city limits proper, or would you orient us from where we are; how close would your residence be?

	K:	It’s two blocks from where we are now. W:	Okay. Are we going east, west?

	K:	We’re going west. W:	Two blocks west. K:	West.

	W:	Now, were there many other Black families around you at that time?



	K:	Oh, yes. Yes, sir. We had our neighborhoods then. And, well, I thought that we just had a big neighborhood. However, neighbors back then, everybody knew everybody, and everybody looked out for everybody’s children and whatever. So, yeah, we were surrounded by other families.

	W:	What were the names of some of those families that lived near you?



	K:	Okay, some of those families were the Albrittons, the Williamses, and the Kellers, and the Currys, and the Fraziers, and the Gassetts, and the Davises, and it kind of just goes on, and on, and on. Uh-huh. I’m trying to give you a vicinity of kind of





two or three block area from where I lived. Those families lived there. The Zimmermans, the Fraleys, and Taylors—.

	W:	And your family knew all of these people?



	K:	Oh yes, sir. Everybody knew everybody. Uh-huh.



	W:	So, how many families total would you say lived in the area that your family considered their friends? How big was that circle of people that you knew? In the hundreds?

	K:	Yes sir, because everybody knew everybody on this side of town.



	W:	Now, were these primarily just African American people, or were there White people that lived there?

	K:	They were all African American people. The only White folk we came in contact with was the Chews that had the little neighborhood store down from the house.

	W:	The Chews.



	K:	Chews.



	W:	What kind of store did they have?



	K:	Just a grocery store. Uh-huh. You could go there, and they had about all kinds of items as far as foods were concerned.

	W:	How close would you say it is to here, if you were to measure in terms of blocks from where we are? What distance?

	K:	Three. About three. Three and a half blocks. W:	And headed towards—

	K:	And from our house, where we were, they were only about a block.



	W:	Did you have an opportunity to frequent the store a lot? Did you go there?





	K:	[Laughter] Yep, we frequented it a whole lot! W:	Okay, why did you like to go to the store?

	K:	Oh, I didn’t say I liked to go!



	W:	[Laughter] Okay, well what circumstances found you at the store?



	K:	Well usually, if I had to go to the store for my mom for something, because she had a little trade there. And she would send one of us down with a note with a list of things that we would go to the store and get. And if it was too much for us to bring back, we would take our Red Rider, which was our wagon, so that we could put our things in and pull it back to the house.

	W:	Now what was your brother’s name? K:	Earl.

	W:	Okay, so you and Earl would go to the store together. Did both of you go inside, or did one sit outside with the wagon, or what would a typical visit to the store with you and your brother be like?

	K:	No, we both would go inside. A typical thing was—‘til we got big enough to read ourselves, and we would go and pick out some of the items ourselves—but before then, we’d just give our list to Elizabeth Chew. And she would collect our things for us. Or Earl Chew, or Landon Chew, or one of them working in there would get our things for us. But as we got to be bigger boys, we could go get our own stuff under careful, watchful eyes.

	W:	What did the store look like? What do you remember about the shelves, and how things were placed inside the store?





	K:	Hm. They had shelves all around the wall. If you’ve ever been in a typical old- fashioned store, that’s what it was. And some shelves built in the middle and all. Basically set up kind of like stores are now, but just old-fashioned.

	W:	Did they have jars with pickled eggs, and sausage, and pig feet, and stuff like that?

	K:	We had jars with pig feet— [Laughter]



	W:	I’m just remembering how it was when I was growing up.



	K:	They had all kinds of stuff like that all around up in there, as I recall. And I can recall going and buying peas, and rice, and stuff like that, that was in barrels. They would scoop it up, however much you wanted. If you wanted a quarter’s worth of rice, they would scoop your rice up and put it in a paper bag for you. Or peas, or beans, or whatever. [Laughter] So, you could get stuff like that.

	W:	Now, it seems unusual to me—and maybe you can explain it, it would make sense to you—you mentioned the Chews were a White family.

	K:	Mmhm.



	W:	In a predominantly Black area. K:	Mmhm.

	W:	They owned the store. K:	Mmhm.

	W:	How do you think that came about, and what were their relations with the Black people who did business with them, like in the neighborhood? How did people feel about the Chews?





	K:	Well, most people—they kind of were a convenience of sorts? They would extend credit to some families—not all families, but they would extend credit to some families. And, actually, their relationship as far as the neighborhood was concerned, was that they were there. They were the store that we went to get items. They didn’t have any personal relationship, as far as I’m concerned, with anybody that I know. Certainly with nobody in our family. They knew all of us, yes. They knew us, and knew us all by name, but no kind of personal relationships at all. Those people’s primary objective was to make as much money as they could.

	W:	Now, why do you think there wasn’t a Black store, since there were so many Black people? There’d have been an opportunity to just, you know, take out the Chews and, say, put in the Williams. Why do you think that it was at that time, it was like that?

	K:	Now, let me answer that sort of in part, because I have heard some of our history, we did have Black businesses here in High Springs. But during that time, why we didn’t, I just really don’t know whether we had anybody interested in starting a store, or whether they thought they could afford to branch out and start a store, or whether they felt that the Black people would support them in their store, and things of that [nature]. You got to remember that there was a time when they tried to condition our minds, and Black people just didn’t think they could do very much as far as entrepreneurship and all that kind of thing. There was a period of time there, with that. I wish I could remember some of those Black businesses that was around. You know, I understand that the only





blacksmith shop here in High Springs was owned by a Black man, and we were discussing some other things; I know one of them was a meat—

	U1:	Oh yeah, a butcher shop. K:	Butcher shop.

	U1:	And a feed lot, I think was, right down where the Western Auto is.



	K:	Yeah, here in High Springs. But we didn’t have any Black stores, so to speak, over here on this side. There was one over on the other side of town. We had several Black business people around; they just wasn’t in the grocery business.

	W:	What types of businesses besides the feed lot store, and being a butcher, and being a blacksmith, do you recall from your youth here in High Springs?

	K:	Well, there was Mr. Clyde Watkins’ store across town. You could even go there and get fountain drinks.

	W:	I’m sorry to cut you off, but when you say “across town,” to me, High Springs is still kind of small to me. So, I want you to explain when you say, “across town”—! [Laughter]

	K:	Over east side of town.



	W:	Okay. So, what do you call the “east side?” How far from here are you designating as the east side of town?

	K:	A mile.



	W:	Okay, a mile.



	K:	Uh-huh.



	W:	So, still a small area. K:	Uh-huh, yeah. Yeah.





	W:	Okay. Sorry, you were talking about his store. I’m sorry.



	K:	Yeah, his store, there. I can remember going there and being able to get a fountain drink. I mean, he was set up. For our day, Mr. Clyde was bigtime. He had grocery items, fountain drinks, sandwiches; because the school was right in proximity of the store, so—

	W:	Okay, which school are you speaking of? K:	Douglass.

	W:	Douglass High School.



	K:	Douglass High School, which in those days went from first through twelfth. And later on, kindergarten through twelfth. Mmhm. So, Mr. Clyde, I think, maybe he had the only store that you could actually go and get grocery items from— nonperishable grocery items.

	W:	Is Mr. Clyde’s family still in town?



	K:	His wife is still living, I think. Ceola Watkins.



	W:	Okay, and we’ve interviewed her for the project already. Now, what other businesses were there?

	U1:	[inaudible 12:04]



	K:	Oh, yeah! Mr. Boss Mahanry; these were little shops. He had a little barbeque place across town—on the east side. And there was Ms. Lula Mae. She had a sandwich place across town. And there were several places over here, places of business, where you could go for your entertainment. There was Janie’s place; there was Moore’s place; you could go get your sandwiches, and you could go and sit down and socialize, and dance if you wanted to.





	W:	So you’re describing like a juke joint?



	K:	Yeah. I just didn’t know whether you wanted me to say “juke.” [Laughter] W:	Oh, well, we’ve discussed them before. [Laughter]

	K:	Oh, yeah. Well those are juke joints. And then, there was Henry Willard’s place, and there used to be a place that—the Thomases had a place of business. That place of business is now Jerome Brown’s Funeral Home. Mmhm. And just as I became of age that I could go out for a few hours, I remember dancing in that place where the chapel is down there—Jerome Chapel? That was part of the dance floor in that place of business. So. And then I had and an uncle, too. He had a place of business here—the Club Oasis. Oh, it was the place! [Laughter]

	W:	Now, where was that located?



	K:	It was located here in High Springs, north, on the north end, down this way. And what is this, 13th Street?

	U1:	Yeah.



	K:	You just keep it straight on out 13th Street, ‘til 13th Street went up to a little dirt lane and road. And you’d go on out to the Club Oasis. He had some big name entertainment out there to that place, too. Ted Taylor—which I bet you never heard of it, and—who was that, Little Johnny Ace?

	W:	So, that was part of the Chitlin’ Circuit?



	K:	Well, yeah; that was part of the Chitlin’ Circuit, uh-huh. Especially Ted Taylor was. You know about the Chitlin’ Circuit?

	W:	Yes, sir. I know a little bit of something about a couple things. [Laughter] Well now, let me ask you this: when we look at High Springs today, there doesn’t





seem to be as much business activity by Black entrepreneurs. So, when would you say that the time came when there were fewer Black businesses, and was there some event that happened, or is it just over time, it just occurred?

	K:	Well, once upon a time in High Springs, there was—the railroad was a big conglomerate here. The Atlantic—as I recall as a child, it was the Atlantic Coastline Railroad. That was a big conglomerate. It employed a whole lot of people. And High Springs in those days was what you might say was a little booming town. There were people all over the place, and those businesses that I had mentioned, they could thrive because there were a lot of people, now. And this started the demise, if you will, of the railroad shop out there. That’s when, you know, when High Springs lost a lot of its oomph all the way around.

	U1:	Tell them about Jay Jordan’s place.



	K:	Oh, yes! Oh, yes! Thank you. Y’all throw these things at me every now and then.



And then we also had our own laundry—dry cleaners—here in town. Mr. Jay Jordan. And when he started that business, my uncle—his daddy—they went in it jointly. Mr. Jay Jordan ran that place up to his demise, I think. A cleaners across town. So, that’s another good thing.

	U1:	Pete Bryant.



	K:	Oh, and Pete Bryant; he ran the billiards shop back there. It was a little place, look like you’d be scared to go in it. It was leaning. [Laughter] And when you walk in, the floor was leaning, too. But Mr. Pete Bryant was—oh, what he could do with shoes and stuff, you just wouldn’t believe! Pete Bryant was always dressing like he was going to church, but he’d be down there at that billiards place and





polish shoes all day long, and never get a piece of polish on him anywhere. And I was telling—I think I was sharing with Ronald—that I learned how to do white shoes when I was in high school. All these—you know, we have all our little trends and fads, and when I was in high school, little buckskin white shoes were the thing. And I had raised up four dollars that I could go down to Mr. Puckett’s and buy me a pair of those shoes.

	W:	Now, who was Mr. Puckett?



	K:	Puckett’s was a guy downtown that had a department store; clothing, and shoes, and all that sort of thing.

	W:	Was this a Black business?



	K:	No, no, no. Anything I mention downtown from my era would be White. W:	And now, why was that?

	K:	All those Black businesses that we were discussing prior to this, they were all long gone. Just long gone. But I learned how to keep those shoes clean from watching Mr. Pete Bryant. He’d use that Griffin white shoe polish, and then he would buff them with cotton balls and talcum powder. And then gave them a shine. And when he got finished with them, they’d shine like they were patent leather. So, we did that. And my brother and a cousin of mine, they had a little shoe box; they used to shine shoes at the barber shop. And so, that sort of thing.

	U2:	Beauticians.



	K:	Oh, we had several beauticians around here. You know, and that’s good that y’all are interjecting these things, because as you’re talking, you’re trying to think and recall. We had real top-notch beauticians around here, too, where the ladies





would go and get their hair done. And I was telling Ronald that I used to get a haircut for twenty-five cents. From Otto; he’s the barber. He’s still living. Lives just across the street from the church. He’s retired now, and last haircut I got from Otto, I think, was ten dollars. So, I’ve gone from twenty-five cent up to ten dollars, from Otto.

	W:	Now you want to hear something else about beauty parlors: there are people now that get their hair done for a thousand dollars. You get a weave put in it in; one hair sitting. Twenty-five cent, ten dollars, a thousand dollars. How does that sit with you?

	K:	Unh-uh! Ain’t that much hair in the world! [Laughter] No, sir. I know my wife, she spends a pretty good bit getting her hair done, but nothing like that! But you know, the hair is just, that’s a good business now to be in—doing hair— especially with all this weave in now. Women don’t have to have short hair if they don’t want to. So, it’s a big business. It’s a big business. But yeah, we had several beauticians around here, as they were called in those days.

	W:	How about a car dealers, or—?



	K:	No Black car dealers. The car dealers here in High Springs, as I recall, were the Jim Douglas Chevrolet and Longman Ford Company.

	U4:	But Jake Postell was a mechanic.



	K:	Oh, he was the main mechanic at Jim Douglas Chevrolet. And of course, he shade tree mechanic around here for everybody that couldn’t go to Jim Douglas. You’d take your car over to Mr. Jake.

	W:	Now, who was Jake Postell?





	K:	Jake Postell was the mechanic that lived over on the east side of town, that worked at Jim Douglas’ Chevrolet place. But he kept a lot of people’s cars running. Because you’d have a problem, and you’d go to Mr. Jake, and he’d eventually get around to doing it. And could pretty well fix whatever was wrong with it, too; unlike the cars of today. We need all this specialized stuff; no shade tree mechanic can’t work on cars today. You know, so. Yeah, Mr. Jake Postell. And what else did we have around here?

	U1:	Ms. Roosevelt.



	K:	I mentioned Lula Mae; that’s when Roosevelt would come in, also. They had a place of business right across from the school, and when you got in high school, at lunchtime, some of the high school students could go over there and buy a sandwich.

	W:	Did you ever go to the theater in town?



	K:	Yes, sir. We had a place especially for us, up in the balcony. [Laughter] In Priest Theater.

	W:	Which is still here.



	K:	It’s still here. I think they, what, have movies maybe once or twice a week on a weekend or something?

	W:	Is it the same family that owns it now that owned it then?



	K:	No, sir. It’s gone through—I did read something in the paper about the owners now, you know, how they trying to nostalgically preserve it and all that sort of thing. And I said to myself when I read that, “I wonder if they still have the





balcony up there?” But, yeah, we had a area up there—little area, with the projection room sitting right out in the center of it.

	W:	Now when you say “we had an area,” just for the purpose of people who’d be listening to this oral history later on, they might not understand that you’re saying something else.

	K:	There was a area up in the balcony reserved for Black patrons of the Priest Theater.

	W:	Is that because Black patrons could not sit on the floor?



	K:	Yes, sir. It was total—from my area, please keep in mind, it was total segregation. Total segregation. Everything was segregated; you could not go in the front of a restaurant, you could not use the same water fountains. You know, you see all of this from the old movies, but I lived this. Some of us in here lived that sort of thing right here in High Springs.

	W:	So there were Colored water fountains, and bathrooms?



	K:	If there was one, it had a “Colored” label on it. I got in trouble one day coming from school. We were coming through downtown, me and a friend of mine, and I wanted some water. Because we had been horseplaying all the way from the school up to Skeet’s Corner. Skeet’s Corner was a little service station of sorts; it sit right up there where what is now the—what is it?

	U5:	Outback.



	K:	It’s not “-back.”



	W:	The Great Outdoors? K:	The Great Outdoors.





	W:	Okay, is that also where the bus would stop in town? U6:	Used to.

	K:	Used to. We’ve had several different bus stop stations, if you will, in High Springs. But I wanted some water that day. And now, we knew full well what we could, should not do in High Springs.

	W:	How did you know that?



	K:	Our parents had told us. You know, they wanted to keep us safe, so when you’re going to school, you’re just going to school. Walk on through town and don’t bother anything, and come on back home. Okay.

	W:	Who was your friend who was with you that day? K:	Harold Lee Robinson.

	W:	Okay, so you all were basically walking the gauntlet—just walk straight through, come right back?

	K:	Well, first of all, we wasn’t walking the route that we normally would walk. See we were going change up that day. [Laughter] Normally we would come that back road over there, come from the school house through the back of town up in there through West and out on, hit the little back road, and come right on home. But that day, we decided, well, we were going go up here on the sidewalk, today. And that’s what we did. And we were horseplaying all the way. And so, by the time I reached Skeet’s Corner where the traffic light was, I was thirsty. It was a hot day, also, and I says, “Harold Lee, I’m going go get me some water.” He says, “I wouldn’t bother that water if I were you, Bobby! Don’t bother that water.” [Laughter] I said, “Me, I’m going get me some water!” So, I didn’t see Skeet. See,





old Skeet Esterlin, that old woman that operated the place. And I didn’t see her— I’d done looked all around carefully, looking for Skeet. And I didn’t see Skeet.

Well, there was the water fountain there; it says “White only,” and there was a old soda crate turned up so that little White children that couldn’t reach the water fountain could stand up on that, and they would be able to reach. So I tipped up there quietly. [Laughter] And was just getting ready—Harold Lee standing back over there—and I was just getting ready to hit the little thing and get me some water—and I had my lips all ready, too; puckered. And something got me back up in here, and lifted me up. That was old Skeet Esterlin. And she had me all up, and she says, “Boy, you know you don’t drink from this fountain! You know it’s White only!” And all I could do, I just—my little legs were dangling, and I was just telling her, I say, “You put me down! You put me down!” And she slung me around a little bit, then she finally put me down. She says, “Now, if you want some water, you go over there and you get you one of them bottles there. And we’ll run you some water in the bottle.” Well, I knew I wasn’t going drink out a dirty bottle, for one thing. I said, “I don’t want your old stank water!” And Harold Lee and I, we took off running. So I guess we ran ‘til we got up to Thomas’s truck store up there on the hill—laughing, because it was kind of funny to us then. But I had a uncle; his daddy worked over at the cleaners downtown, and she knew. I didn’t even know Skeet knew who in the world I was, but she knew that Wallace was my uncle, and she went right straight over there and she told my uncle that I was over there trying to drink out of the White fountain. So—not that I was in trouble when I got home, but my momma did tell me, “Now, you know that kind of





thing can get you in trouble. Don’t do that. Why were up there on that street, anyway?” So, you know, those little things that they tried to tell you to keep you safe, sometimes when you strayed away from them, they could get you in some big trouble. Because right here in High Springs, once upon a time, the law as far as Black people were concerned, it was atrocious. And some of these younger folk right there sitting up out there might not know about that, but it was pretty bad.

	W:	Are you talking about the man who was shot up here?



	K:	Oh, did somebody tell you about the man that was shot up there? At Skeet’s Corner!

	W:	I heard that story from Ms. Madeline Thompson, across the street.



	K:	And they let him lay up out there for about all day, as a lesson to the other Black people.

	W:	Could you relate this story as it came to you?



	K:	I can relate it as it was told to me. There was a woman that said that this Black man either winked or whistled at her—which everybody knew that was a lie, because every Black man knew, that had a mouth, knew not to pucker his lips to whistle at no White woman. Period.

	W:	Do you know his name?



	K:	No, sir. I can’t recall his name. But she told her husband, and her husband did shoot him. And they let him—the story as told to me—that they let him lay there for hours. And the story that I get is, for the rest of the afternoon, as a lesson to Black folk: this is what will happen to you. However, I am told that later on, that





same man that shot him became a police in High Springs, and I believe was a police in Alachua also, in later years.

	W:	So, this happened in broad daylight? A man just came up and shot a man. K:	Yes, sir! The man shot him in broad daylight!

	W:	Right up here at the light. K:	Uh-huh.

	W:	And nothing was done. K:	No, sir.

	W:	Never prosecuted.



	K:	Nothing was done. There was a lady that had a store here, another little neighborhood store here, right here. It was called Wiggins’ Corner. She operated a little store, another little neighborhood store. And there was a man which was our neighbor, Mr. Thomas Zimmerman. I don’t know whether anybody has related this story to you yet or not, but I was told that Ms. Wiggins had a sister that worked at City Hall for the clerk of High Springs City. This man had been taking money, and she found out about it because she’s working there, and she told him that he needed to stop doing that—or if he continued to do it, she was going have to turn him in.

	W:	This was a White lady telling a White man—



	K:	White man. We’re talking a White man and a White lady. Black folk didn’t do nothing going to City Hall, but to do whatever they went up there for. But we didn’t work up in there. It ran on that he did not stop it. He killed that lady one day, because she told him, “Now, I’m going to turn you in now!” And they were





the only two people there, down at City Hall; so I’m to understand. And he killed that woman up in there. I don’t know, I think that maybe he bludgeoned her to death? But anyway, story goes—story that I heard—was that Mr. Tom Zimmerman—do you remember Mr. Tom Zimmerman? Y’all remember Tom Zimmerman?

	U7:	I do.



	K:	Mr. Tom Zimmerman was coming through town. W:	Who was Black?

	K:	Who was a Black man. He’s coming through, and this guy beckoned for him to come. “Come here, and I want to show you something, Tom.” But some sense, I think; an extra—some ESP or something—Mr. Tom would not go in that place. But that man, so I’m told, still tried to pin that on Mr. Tom Zimmerman. And in those days, if he had said Mr. Tom Zimmerman did it, Mr. Tom Zimmerman did it. And he did say that Mr. Tom Zimmerman did it. But, Ms. Wiggins, her sister had confided in her what was going on. So now, here her sister is dead, and Ms.

Wiggins was the one, so I’m to understand, that saved Mr. Tom Zimmerman. Because her sister had shared that with her, and that’s what cleared Mr. Tom Zimmerman. That was also in a—my grandma used to read a magazines called True Confessions—and that made a story in True Confessions, because she had that book, and she showed it to us. Said, “Here’s the story in here.” So, yeah.

That actually happened. But yeah, I heard the story of that man, just laying out there like that. You know.

	W:	Where did your family worship when you lived in High Springs?





	K:	Right down there to the Shiloh Missionary Baptist Church, which is a block, maybe and a half, on the left over there.

	W:	And do you recall the minister when you were growing up?



	K:	My ministers were Jordan—Reverend A. L. Jordan, and Reverend Clark were the ministers. We had Sunday school, and then they had, I suppose about anything that you would have now; prayer meeting and all that, because kids wasn’t concerned with that. But I enjoyed Sunday school. Because as I recall, my first teachers—what would we call that? Prayer mom or something?—was Ms. Keith. And I just loved the way Ms. Keith would teach. And we had those little cards—I don’t whether they still have them today or not; I’ve been out of Sunday school for a while—the little picture card, and the story is on the back. and Ms. Keith would just teach you—and of course, the older you got, you would go to the next level. So, I had teachers like Ms. Keith, and then Ms. Drusilla; Melanese; and Mr. Willie Hammonds; and I just—good days from down at the Sunday school.

	W:	Did you go to Vacation Bible School and BTU as well?



	K:	Yes, sir. We looked—but Vacation Bible School in those days to me just wasn’t long enough. They had a lot of activities for us to do, and we thoroughly enjoyed Vacation Bible School. I think it was for about a week in those days—I don’t know how long it is now. But it was about a week in those days. But yeah, we had Vacation Bible School, and we had something that was called BYTU—Baptist Young People’s Union—that we went to on Sunday afternoons.

	W:	And what kind of activities took place with you and the other youth when you went to the training union?





	K:	Well, we’d always have plays, different kinds of plays. And we loved those, because sometimes we had a few little props that we could make up for our plays, and we always did Easter and Christmas plays, and things like that. That was something that long—and then we’d kind of look forward to Christmas and Easter plays and all. In those days, you had to be on your best behavior if you wanted a part in that play. That was just all there was to it; you couldn’t go and act up, and expect that you were going to be in the plays when they took place at church. And your parents knew that, too.

	W:	Well, do you think that going to Sunday school, and going to the BYTU, did that help develop your leadership?

	K:	I’m positive that it did, because, you see, after all of that, as I became as a young man, I was superintendent of that same church Sunday school. There was a superintendent who was my mentor, was Mr. Willie Hammonds. I just thought that the sun just kind of rose and set on Mr. Willie Hammonds, never thinking that I would one day be the superintendent of Sunday school. He was the kind of superintendent that, he knew every kid that came there. And I think y’all probably had one of those here, too, Mr. Mose Johnson. But, if you were not in Sunday school on that Sunday, Mr. Willie Hammonds was going to show up at your house to find out what your problem that Sunday. So, to zip on down, I became the superintendent of Sunday school at Shiloh for about thirty years. Mmhm. So, yeah, it had a positive impact on me, mmhm.

	W:	You’ve told stories with some heartbreak and a lot of happiness, and you know, all in between. Would you say that you take a sense of pride in being from High





Springs, and having grown up and had part of your life here? How would you describe your pride in High Springs?

	K:	I have a lot of pride in High Springs, because High Springs in those days was kind of one big, happy family. A one big family. My wife oftentimes says now that even today, the people from High Springs band and stick together. She says, “Now, they might not always get along, but I have noticed”—my wife is not from here—she say, “I have noticed that when something is—you want to have something, or a benefit program for somebody in High Springs that’s been ill, or down in luck, or whatever,” she said, “the people in High Springs, they will band together, and they support that program.” So, High Springs is still a close-knit community. Not near as close as it once upon a time was, because there just wasn’t so much that you could deviate from a long time ago as we have now.

But, yeah. I have a lot of good memories from High Springs. In a word of speaking, you kind of had to walk the chalk line in High Springs, because we came up in a time when you respected your elders. You know, you didn’t want them to see you doing anything, because you didn’t want the wrong kind of report to get back home. So, yeah. Lot of pride from High Springs.

	W:	Do you think High Springs has changed in the positive over the years? For example, I’m picking up a little of what you’re saying, that after integration, Black communities weren’t as close. So, a lot of that closeness was lost. Do you miss that? Do you think there’s a chance for that to come back? Or, how are you thinking about that loss of community?





	K:	I do miss that. Do I think there’s a chance for it coming back? No. I don’t.



Because a lot of effort has been put forth, as far as I’m concerned, to discredit and/or destroy a lot of things that we did that were meaningful to us, that they just don’t happen anymore. For an example, when we were in school and we had our graduations, we had baccalaureate and commencement. Now, our baccalaureate program was always a religious-type program; we had our speaker there, and all that sort of thing. I don’t think they do that anymore— commencement, the seniors. I mean, when you got to be a senior, and it was about time for you to graduate, that was some happy time, because there were all these things that we did. We practiced our commencement exercise—how we were going to march in that auditorium; our seating; and all that sort of thing. I don’t think they do that anymore. We had to be dressed. The boys had on a white shirt, black bowties, black or dark trousers under your graduation robe. The girls, I think, had white dresses. Now, the kids just put their robes on over anything they got on, and go and walk down up in the auditorium, and go home. And that, to me, is just—you know, we took a lot of pride in preparing for graduation—and it was in all of the Black schools. In all of the Black schools.

	W:	So is it a societal change, then? That communities have changed, religion has less value, schools are now integrated, it’s different—all of that has combined in some way to change those traditions?

	K:	All of the above. All of the above, all of the things that you mentioned. Every one of them, mmhm. And that’s not necessarily good, as far as I’m concerned. We didn’t have this many problems, especially with our young people, back then like





we have now. You know, somebody say, “monkey see, monkey do.” But when I came along, “Monkey, you don’t want to get in no trouble. Then you stay out of trouble, monkey.” But our young people now—they don’t have the same values that we had, let me put it that way. Some of that, I think, is a problem that comes from home. Because in as much as our children are exposed to different things, now I do feel that at home, there should be some values that your children should have to abide by. So.

	W:	Speaking of children, then, what are your hopes for the children in this area, say over the next fifteen, twenty-five years? In fifteen to twenty-five years, they will be the ones that are running things.

	K:	God help us! But anyway, I just don’t know, unless things change a whole bunch.



Because some of the things that we can see now in our young people are just not so very promising. And unless they do a whole bunch of turning around and straightening some things out, I just don’t know what kind of productive older people that they are going to become. I really don’t. I hate to say that, but it’s just that the things that—I don’t know, maybe High Springs doesn’t have as much of it as a lot of the larger communities, but I just don’t know. And sometimes, if you really want to get to thinking about that direction, it’s kind of scary. It can get to be very scary.

	W:	Taking advantage of the wisdom that you’re offering now, thinking about it, if you had an ideal plan of what should be done—just starting now—what is something that could be done, you know, over the course of a week, or a month, or a few years, or five years, or ten years? How would you address this issue of turning





around the youth of the area in general, but particularly in High Springs, to give a sense of hope for that fifteen, twenty-five years we know is coming? What would you do?

	K:	Well, as far as young people are concerned, they’re going to have to develop a better sense of pride. They’re going to have to get a new direction, and they’re going to have to be resolute in that direction. They’re going to have to establish and define a purpose for themselves. Otherwise, they just going to just be lost and living. I don’t know whether I answered your question, but that’s kind of the way that I feel about it now. It’s a whole lot that needs to be done. I have grandchildren, and I can see some things in them that, if it goes unchecked, where that can lead them, and what that can do with them. So, I think that you— as parents and grandparents, we’ve got to show them, we’ve got to tell them, we’ve got to teach them, and we’ve got to be serious about it. Because they’re exposed to so much now that they just going to have to be strong and have a strong will to become something worthwhile. Mmhm.

	W:	Couple of short themes, and just give a reaction back, whatever it’s going to be: price of gasoline.

	K:	You mean, in the future? Well let me tell you something: I remember when gasoline was twenty-nine-nine. That’s as far back as I can remember. Twenty- nine-nine, or thirty cents, a gallon. And I’ve just seen gasoline get to be something crazy. I mean, we don’t go anywhere unless we have to now. This is what our children coming along, this is what they’re going to be used to. I don’t see gasoline going down that much. You know, when gasoline got to be a dollar





and something, we thought it was outrageous, but now it’s really ridiculous and outrageous. So we’ll never have any more twenty-nine-nine again, I know that. I wish that there could be something done about that if we going continue to use gasoline-operated vehicles.

	W:	The dream of owning a home.



	K:	That was always important to us. Yet, to be honest with you, I never thought I would own a home. You know? But I don’t know whether the young people, their minds are geared toward that sort of thing now or not. But home ownership to me was very important, and we got a lot of good breaks when I came along as far as my home and all is concerned. You know, you’re going, you’re trying to prepare and make the way for your children that are coming behind you, but we don’t know really what they’re going to really want. But home ownership, it’s very important. We own our home, and our kids were raised there. It’s been a good thing; the home has played an important part for us, especially when the kids started going to school. You could get you a little mortgage on your home. And we had to—but these are kinds of things that you worked for. It’s good to have something that you can fall back onto, to help see your children through. You do all of these things for your kids so that they can be self-sufficient, so that they can see about themselves. Our parents—when we came along, our parents did what they could do for us. Then, here we are, we can do just a little more for our kids. So, that’s just the way that it has been, education has always been high priority for me. I mean what you going do? What you going do? So I tried to instill that in my children also, and here, again, I’m in the cycle of trying to do the same thing





with my grandchildren. What you going do without an education? You’ve got a lot of opportunity now that wasn’t there when I came along. You know, when I went to school—I mean, kids now—and you stress academics—because kids now, there’s a lot open to them, if they are academically-prepared. Grants and all that. I couldn’t even spell “grant” when I was going to college. The only thing that we had in the line of financial assistance when I went to school was something called the SDL, Student Defense Loan. That was what we had, and then that was five hundred dollars a year, not a semester. Five hundred dollars a year. Now kids, if they apply themselves, they can apply for grants; they can get scholarships; they can do this, that, and the other. Those things were unheard of in the days, back in the [19]50s. They were unheard of. If you got the opportunity to go to college, or to further yourself, it was kind of a family effort. Everybody in there was trying to help keep you in school or something. So, and then you went and you tried to do your best, and get on out from there and come back so you can help somebody else. But that has changed, as you well know. I mean, you know, some of these kids take forever to go as long as they can get some money. And then, they don’t apply themselves like they should and all that. You know, some of these things I tell my own children, which they are grown. Grown. They are adult people. They look at me kind of strange; they look at me and their mom kind of strange. We share some stories with them, and they kind of find them hard to believe. But—. [Laughter] It’s a fact. So, I wish the best for these generations that are coming behind us, but we just have to remain hopeful for our young people. But we have to do the very best we can, we’ve got to do that.





	W:	Just a couple more. I’d be remiss if I didn’t say Barack Obama.



	K:	Barack Obama, somebody I didn’t ever think I would see running the country. I never thought that in my lifetime that I would see a Black man as president. It’s just, it’s wonderful, as far as I’m concerned. He was a surprise to many—myself included, but I was so happy. And Barack Obama, certainly he has my support. I love him. I think he’s doing the absolute best job that he can; it’s a lot is heaped up on his shoulders. A lot of it he inherited, they heaping other stuff up on his shoulders because he is who he is. But Barack Obama is a good man. And to sound old-fashioned, I think that Barack Obama was put where he is because God had a hand in it. I really do. I think that—and he’s going to be alright. He might even get a second term. He’s going be alright because I think that God is for him. I just—to get even more into it, I think that he’s covered with the blood. Barack Obama. Uh-huh.

	W:	Mr. Roger King, I’d like to thank you for this second— U1:	Wait a minute, don’t end yet. Talk a little about Dr. King.

	K:	[Laughter] Well now he was fixing to end this thing, Ronald. But, well, I can remember—

	U1:	No, I mean Dr. King, your daughter.



	K:	[Laughter] Oh, well you know these young people, they crazy. But yeah, I do have a daughter that’s a doctor. And, but they still don’t see things like we seen them, now. And this thing was off, I’d talk to you man to man; but, they don’t see things. I’m proud of her [inaudible 58:30]. I look at her—I look at both of my kids, and they never had the hardships that we had, you know? They just never had





those things. A lot of what they have is always as if they were supposed to have it. But they don’t know the sacrifices that were made for them. She went off to school and started her a family while she was up there, but she’s doing well now. These young people, there’s a whole lot of opportunity for these young people if they just keep their heads about them. You know, I look at my children, they make more money than me and Sarah could ever imagine making. It’s just amazing to me. I don’t know what some of the things that you wanted me to say about Dr. King, but Dr. King around here is Dr. King. Yeah.

	U1:	[Inaudible 59:47]



	K:	I know you do. And Herbert does, too. I think maybe Herbert is resting his eyes back there now. But anyway, mmhm.

	W:	Well, on behalf of our oral history program, I want to thank you for conducting the interview. I understand we’re going to have some questions afterwards, but I like to conclude my portion of the interview by thanking you for, again, doing an interview with us, and I’d like to close this section by asking you to make any comment that you would care to. And when you finish your comments, that’ll conclude this part of the interview section before the questions.

	K:	Well, I certainly wish you the best in what you are doing. I hope that you can just get all the pieces of history that you need to get together. Because certainly, these are the kinds of things that we need to have available to us. Because we existed, and people need to know that we did exist in our Black schools; we did go to school before integration. And we did have very good teachers before integration. So, I certainly wish you the best in you endeavors of what you are





doing through the oral history foundation at the University of Florida. Thank you very much. I never thought that I would have anything worth much. But I also knew that I needed to try to better myself so that I could have something. But you know, there was just not a lot of opportunity for Black folk in those days. And you know, whatever you had to go through to try to get you a house. And I says, “Well, I want to have a house, have a home, but I’m never going to be able to afford one.” But with hard work and perseverance, you can do anything, I have found. You can. And as far as I’m concerned—we made pretty good lives for ourselves, as far as I’m concerned. You know, I look at some of the people from High Springs here, and people have gone on to do a whole lot of things. And they had to have gotten something from somebody, some kind of encouragement from somebody, to go as far as they have. We’ve got doctors, lawyers; everything from right here in little old High Springs. They came up around here just like I did. I never thought I would own a home, but I never ruled it out that much either, and never gave it much serious thought until I started courting, and started thinking about marriage. And then, when you got somebody to work with you, you can do a whole lot of things. Whole lot of things. Mmhm.

	U8:	Let me ask a question for me: I know that you was brought up during the time segregation. On the night that Barack Obama was elected, how did you feel as a Black man?

	K:	Ah! Gosh! I only wish that I could’ve been there in that field where they were. I stayed up all night long. I think Sarah and I cried together; we prayed together; that was the night that I will never, ever forget. Because, you see, I watched CNN





as the projections were coming in. I watched CNN. It just kept you kind of on pins because, there for a while, I says, “Oh, I don’t know Sarah. This thing is looking mighty bleak.” I say, “I think they just holding back so all of a sudden, they can come up here and just give us a big old McCain projection up in here.” But that thing started coming on up in there, those projections started rolling in, and I started to looking at it real seriously, and when he was—you know, CNN had projected him a winner, I think before some of the other networks had. And it was the most memorable time. I will never forget that. I will never forget that. So, that was just a happy time with me; I just wish that I could’ve been there. We had some people that went up to the inauguration. Oh, you were one of them! I just sort of wish that I could have, but it was just wonderful. This is a time in history that we will never forget.

	U9:	Allrighty. Any questions for Mr. King before we close up?



	U10:	Brother, talk a little bit about how cousin Earl got to play professional baseball.



	K:	Oh, yeah! You know, [inaudible 1:05:25]. But yeah, I had a brother that did play a little bit of professional baseball.

	W:	This is the Earl from the lantern, or a different Earl? K:	No, he wasn’t from Atlanta.

	W:	No, no. The lantern; y’all bumped into each other, the hot lantern—



	K:	Oh yeah, my brother! Yeah my brother that pushed that lantern into my belly.



Yeah, Earl was a pitcher. And you know, they just played in the little sandlot ball around here in High Springs, but he got signed on to the Detroit Tigers. Are they still in existence today? Detroit Tigers? And Earl had poor management, but he





played professional baseball for a while. So I mea,n that was the buzz around here in High Springs. The media was at the house, and I was trying to get in on all the pictures that my brother was supposed to be in. It was a happy time.

There was a bit of a writeup in the High Spring Herald about that and all. So, he played for maybe three or four years, uh-huh, with them, and so—. That was an exciting time—that was before you were born.

U10:  Yeah.



	K:	Wasn’t it? U10:	Yeah it was.

	K:	Uh-huh. But yeah, that was an exciting time. Somebody told me that they just— going back and recapping some stuff here in the High Spring Herald, and somebody said that they did an article in there on it.

	U11:	Oh, is that right?



	K:	Uh-huh.



	U12:	Must have like baseball to me, and he was one of the people mentioned. K:	Uh-huh.

	U13:	He played for the Negro League; he didn’t play for the—? K:	No, my brother?

	U13:	Yeah, played in the Negro League, or—?



	K:	No, no, no, no, no. No, he was with the Detroit Tigers which was a—what, professional league. But when he left the Detroit Tigers, he went to play for—they may have been part of the Negro League, there. A team called the Indianapolis Clowns. Did you ever hear of them?





	W:	Mmhm.



	K:	He played for them for a while over in Canada, and all those—



	U11:	But they also had him on a team with Jack Allman, though. I think they were— K:	Oh well, that was just local, the little local baseball they would have around here.

Like, they’d still go out there where all scrubs, playing baseball. But you know, that was something in those days; a little High Springs boy, that played sandlot baseball, then got discovered, Earl—my brother was supposed to have been a very good pitcher. You know, they had so much speed behind that ball. Of course, I didn’t know them balls be travelling about ninety to one hundred miles per hour.

	U14:	[Inaudible 1:08:29]



	K:	And Jeff, yes. So you know, from this community—which I’m sure that by now somebody has brought out all of these things to you.

	W:	Actually, no one has done that yet. That’s why we’re doing this—to get people to talk, get people to come out and meet them, and hear it.

	K:	Oh yes, High Spring has quite a few athletes that did great, good things. There’s Tracy Ham, there’s Jeff William; you know.

	W:	That’s the strength of coming out and doing something like this. You get to know them.

	K:	Yeah, because you know like I say, High Spring has produced a whole lot of greatness and goodness.

	W:	Tracy Ham from Georgia Southern, Tracy Ham? K:	Yes!





	W:	Oh, wow!



	K:	Uh-huh. Tracy Ham was one of my students in Sunday school. Jan Brown back there, that was one of my Sunday school girls. I was her superintendent and her Sunday school teacher. Tracy Ham, bad boy in Sunday school! He was one of mine; all of them Hams, and Dunbars, and all of them. All of them. But yeah, High Springs has really produced a whole lot of—it’s a whole lot that’s come out of High Springs.

	U14:	First Black woman? K:	Huh?

	U14:	First Black woman mortician.



	K:	Yes! That’s the first Black woman mortician sitting back there, in High Springs. So, we just got a whole stuff around here. You wouldn’t think that the little kids that had to walk from over here way back over there, as far as when I was going to school. Now, that’s only about a mile, but to let us tell it, we had to walk four miles! [Laughter] You know, walking from here on back over there to school.

	U15:	It might be two miles. K:	It ain’t two miles.

	U15:	For people who ride the bus. K:	No, it’s not two miles.

	U15:	The last time you rode the bus?



	K:	Unh-uh. It ain’t no two miles. See, I live in the country; you don’t know what a mile is. [Laughter] Uh-huh. So who else are you going to have to do tonight? Am I the only one?





	W:	This evening, no one else. But I appreciate Reverend Williams opening up the church for this opportunity for people to come in and listen, and I want to encourage everyone who’s here, if you would like to participate in the program, I’d be happy to speak with you, leave my card; also work with Reverend Williams, because we know they are many stories to tell. This is a very small part, and I want to thank Mr. King for adding so much, but he’s one man telling one story about his life. And we couldn’t even find out everything about your life just in this small telling. So, everyone has a story to tell, there are many stories that need to be told, and please help us tell them while people are still here to tell them, because probably the strongest element I’ve dealt with in doing this is the regret that comes from people being gone, and people saying, “Oh, you should have talked to So-and-so. Oh, you should have done—So-and-so was the person you wanted to talk to. Oh no, baby, they died; they passed on.” “When?” “Last month.” [Laughter] Ms. Mattie Williams’ son who played in the NFL, I wanted to go back and interview him. He was in his eighties. I interviewed his mother, over a hundred, didn’t get a chance to go back with him, and when I brought it up to Reverend Williams, he said, “I did his service three months ago.” And that’s how close I was to interviewing him.

	K:	It’s been three months, huh? W:	At the time I asked him.

	K:	Oh okay. It’s been what—how long it’s been? Jeff and I played all around up in here.





	W:	So, not that long ago. So, please think about it. It’s not something that people— you know, people are very cautious with their stories and their family history, as they should be. But we want to be good stewards of these stories. If you don’t want them to be in the archives at the University of Florida, place them in an archive here, or establish your own archive. But please don’t let people go on without saving those important family memories. Take you some time—if we can help you establish your own archives, that’s something we’d be happy to do as well. The important thing is to get people’s stories while they’re still able to tell them themselves.

	K:	Okay, because even Mt. Carmel has a nice, rich history. [Inaudible 1:12:50] Reverend there that, the very first Boy Scouts, Black Boy Scouts, started right here in this church from a man that lived back in a shop there: Mr. Mayner.

W:  That’s something that we have no record of in our archives. We have over five thousand interviews, I’ve never heard about Black Boy Scouts from any part of Florida.

	K:	Mr. Mayner, right here in this basement of this church is where they would meet.



I was a little lad then, but I can remember that. Mmhm.



	W:	And that’s how it happens; you have a conversation with somebody, and a little bit of something’ll come out. You follow a bread crumb from them.

	K:	I know none of y’all even have heard of Mr. Mayner, but he lived back in that— there was a community back in Sharp, there—as we call it, “back in Sharp.”

	U16:	Was it a Black man?





	K:	Yes! Charles wasn’t no White man going do nothing with no Black children along up in there.

	U16:	Okay! I was wondering, what was a White man—



	K:	Yeah, Mr. Mayner. Mr. Mayner had a whole lot of the boys. My brother came out to be a Boy Scout; Charles Waldron; George Gassett; all of those boys then.

They told me I was too young to join, so I don’t know what they were, but anything my brother didn’t want me to be a part of, he’d always tell me I was too young. I’d run me back home. But anyway, yeah: right here in this church is where they would meet. Mmhm.

[End of recording]





	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, November 8, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 19, 2019