AAHP 267B; Price; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 267B Lee J Price

African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Chelsea Carnes and Sandra Parks on June 13, 2016 56 minutes | 29 pages

















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 267B

Interviewee: Lee J Price

Interviewer: Chelsea Carnes, Sandra Parks Date: June 13, 2016



	C:	Okay, my name is Chelsea Carnes, I’m here at the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program today. It is June thirteenth, Monday, at 1:00 p.m. And I’m joined by—

	SP:	Sandra Parks. C:	And—

	LP:	I’m Lee J Price, or Jack Price, known by several other pseudonyms by the FBI and the CIA. [Laughter]

	C:	Could you spell your last name ‘cause I noticed we had some— LP:	P-R-I-C-E.

	C:	P-R-I-C-E, okay. Alright Mr. Price, could you tell us a little bit—maybe we could start with your early life, what year you were born?

	LP:	Well I was born in 1929, I’m eighty-six, I’ve already lived entirely too long. But I’ve had an interesting life and I have known Stetson since late childhood and I started clipping for him very early, so even some of his early books acknowledge how he had benefitted—somehow it was my mission in life to be the clipper. I’d identify pieces of information that I think other people need to know and hopefully act on, and then I connect them together. Sometimes it’s made a difference, but more often not.

	SP:	Before social media, there was you and clipping. LP:	That’s true. I think that’s fair.

	SP:	Now Jack, you know, you grew up in Jacksonville? LP:	Yes.

	SP:	And where did you live? In the Avondale area where Stetson worked?





	LP:	No, I lived—my connection with Stetson was primarily through Ed and Pauline Coffee.

	SP:	I wondered what that connection was. Were you and Pauline children together? LP:	No, Pauline lived on the rich side of town, I grew up on the poor side of town.

	SP:	Oh okay so—



	LP:	I went to Edmund Kirby-Smith Junior High School. SP:	Oh you did, just like Stetson.

	LP:	Yes I did, and Andrew Jackson High School.



	SP:	You went to Andrew Jackson and of course he went to Robert E. Lee. Neither of which we particularly admire. [Laughter]

	LP:	No, but.



	C:	How did you meet Stetson?



	LP:	‘Cause he was a childhood friend of Pauline and Ed Coffee. C:	Can you tell us a little bit about Pauline and Ed?

	LP:	Ed Coffee’s father was the attorney for the school board. And he was primarily a labor lawyer and they had been in leftist student activities at the University of Florida together.

	SP:	Oh Stetson and Pauline? LP:	And Ed Coffee.

	SP:	And Ed Coffee.



	LP:	Yes.



	SP:	Had known each other here at the university? LP:	That’s correct.





	SP:	Where is Sam Proctor in all of this too?



	LP:	Well Sam Proctor, I guess was here, but the Proctor’s were a very prominent Jewish family in Jacksonville, and he has a brother who may or may not be alive who was a lawyer. As far as I know, the Proctor’s were the only Jews in town who were supporting George Smathers against Claude Pepper.

	SP:	Okay. [Laughter]



	LP:	I always had a very negative feeling about the Proctor’s.



	SP:	Stetson and Sam used to hitchhike from Jacksonville over here to Gainesville.



So, did you know Stetson in connection with Sam Proctor or no?



	LP:	No I knew Sam Proctor—I only encountered him years later. But the brother who was a lawyer I saw because I was in Jacksonville working at the Pepper campaign and I saw him working for George Smathers.

	SP:	Okay.



	C:	So you worked on the Claude Pepper’s campaign?



	LP:	Yes I was an early intern at Claude Pepper’s office back in 1948. C:	Did you get to know him personally?

	LP:	And he was defeated in 1950 by George Smathers who was really the senator from the Dominican Republic. Somewhere there’s a medal from Trujillo which he gave to George Smathers but I think they buried it. It’s never been displayed here, I’ve asked, and they get very embarrassed.

	C:	Can you tell us a little about Claude Pepper and working for him?





	LP:	Claude Pepper was a great progressive candidate, a graduate of Harvard Law School. And he was a great leader of the Democratic wing of the Democratic Party.

	C:	What’s your educational background? After Andrew Jackson High School? LP:	I did some community college and that was it. I’m blissfully ignorant.

	SP:	Or the most well-read, self-educated person I know. You know, for all of our conversations together Jack, I have no idea how you came to be interested and committed in the same kinds of things that Stetson was interested in.

	LP:	I have no explanation except growing up in Jacksonville without any outside inspiration or information, I was very shaped by the Spanish Civil War. That was not an issue that many people in Jacksonville were aware of or cared about, but somehow I followed it very closely. I knew which side I was on, and I remember a picture in the Florida Times-Union at the Franco’s offensive with the Spanish republic and there were pictures of his troops in the Mediterranean exultantly holding up their guns, and I cried.

	SP:	When you said that Stetson and Sam Proctor were in the same organization here at the University, did you know about Stetson’s involvement?

	LP:	Oh I know he was involved with someone whom I’ve met, Mr. Lord. SP:	Oh yes, is it David Lord?

	LP:	Yes.



	SP:	Yes.



	LP:	Yes, I knew—he had been—they had worked jointly for the Spanish republic. Not Sam Proctor.





	SP:	No, but David Lord. LP:	Yes.

	SP:	Stetson founded an organization over here called the Student Intercollegiate Peace Coalition.

	LP:	Okay I didn’t know about that.



	SP:	And one of their goals was gathering the boots that the ROTC students over here had to buy, and sending them to the Spanish Civil War. So I wondered, were you—did you know that? Were you involved?

	LP:	No, I knew about Stetson’s interests and support for the republic, but it was information that I enquired later in his life.

	SP:	Oh okay, you didn’t know it at the time. Anything else besides the Spanish Civil War that kind of explains your?—

	LP:	No, that gave me a lifelong propensity to support causes that usually failed. SP:	What about the Holocaust? Did that have any?—

	LP:	The Holocaust. Jacksonville was interesting. For the most part, the Jacksonville Jewish community was old, they’d been there a long time, there weren’t many. Judaism in Jacksonville was dominated by the reform movement. And my earliest interest in race relations came because Cora Kaplan, the rabbi’s wife, had a great mission to acclaim Jacksonville with James Weldon Johnson. Do you know who James Weldon Johnson?

	C:	I don’t.



	LP:	He was the first Colored, Negro, Black lawyer in Florida. He was the first principal of the Negro high school. He was the first Negro diplomat. And he was later of





the American minister to Venezuela and Nicaragua. When Woodrow Wilson came to power because all the Blacks in the government were Lincoln Republicans, they all got fired, in large part because they were Republican but Lincoln was also terribly racist. I mean, Woodrow Wilson was a terrible racist. He had a White House screening of the epic about the Klan, Birth of a Nation, in the White House.

	SP:	James Weldon Johnson was also the author of the words to the Negro National Anthem.

	LP:	“Lift Ev’ry Voice and Sing.” He and his brother wrote them.



	SP:	“Life Ev’ry Voice and Sing.” But how is it that it was a Jewish citizen in Jacksonville that was educating people about James Weldon Johnson?

	LP:	Well because she was enlightened. SP:	She knew about it?

	LP:	Of course she did, and it was important and she thought it was important for people in Jacksonville. They certainly did not know who James Weldon Johnson was.

	SP:	That is fascinating that he was principal of Stanton and they didn’t know.



	LP:	Well I don’t think the Black community at that time knew their history either ‘cause they certainly weren’t taught it. But James Weldon Johnson was a founder of both the NAACP and the American Civil Liberties Union. So I’m involved currently in a project to have him replace Edmund Kirby-Smith in Statuary Hall in the capital and I think that’s quite appropriate. I don’t think you improve race relations by obliterating history but since Edmund Kirby-Smith as an adult never





lived in Florida, and he had no impact on policy—but James Weldon Johnson I think, he was a great Renaissance intellectual and writer and he and his brother Rosamond also did the libretto of an opera, they also did popular songs “Under the Bamboo Tree” is one that they composed.

	SP:	Really? I didn’t know that. LP:	Now you do.

	SP:	Now I do. So hooray Pauline. [Laughter]



	LP:	Pauline was a product of her French-Corsican left-wing father. SP:	What about your family? Were your family liberal as well?

	LP:	No, they were rescued by Roosevelt and the New Deal. SP:	Oh yes yes we have that in our family, too.

	LP:	They were rescued.



	SP:	There were two pictures on the wall: Jesus and FDR. LP:	Well we didn’t have Jesus. [Laughter]

	SP:	But FDR you did. LP:	FDR we had.

	SP:	Where along the way did you actually meet Stetson and how did Sam get into this?

	LP:	Oh Sam didn’t get into it. SP:	Oh he didn’t?

	LP:	It’s just kind of ironic. I think that Dr. Proctor would be horrified by some of Paul Ortiz’s projects.

	SP:	That’s interesting.





	LP:	Why is that interesting? I think it’s true.



	SP:	Oh I think that’s fascinating. So how did you meet Stetson?



	LP:	I can’t remember the day and place but it was through Pauline and Ed Coffee. SP:	In Jacksonville?

	LP:	Of course in Jacksonville, I hadn’t even been out of Jacksonville.



	SP:	But see now I’m trying to get the—‘cause there’s a considerable difference between your age and Stetson’s, you know thirteen years is a lot in the life of a young man.

	LP:	But most of my life I have been the friend of wiser, more experienced, more interesting-lived friends.

	SP:	Do you have—I’m trying to figure out, where you a late teenager or young adult at the time that you met Stetson?

	LP:	I was probably a late teenager I don’t know.



	SP:	So he would’ve been back in Jacksonville after his time in Key West. Did you ever know George Kennedy or ever go to his furniture store?

	LP:	No, but his stepmother I knew. She was the organist at the Episcopal Church. SP:	She was a Fratwell? Was it Fratwell that was her last name?

	LP:	I don’t remember what her name was.



	SP:	She’s the stepmother that George Kennedy used to escape from, that’s why he got Beluthahatchee. She was a socialite and George Kennedy didn’t like that so he knew—

	LP:	That was his fishing camp.



	SP:	That was his fishing camp and she wasn’t going to go.





	LP:	Out of an old school bus, an abandoned school bus.



	SP:	Yes, Florida Motor Lines. That’s the way he did that. So in the early—



	LP:	Of course I followed the saga of Stetson and his beloved Beluthahatchee, which was probably the most important thing in his life, was Beluthahatchee, and several times the dam broke and he had to— with great physical effort personally— restore the dam.

	SP:	That’s right. Financially and actually out there digging.



	LP:	Well he inherited a big hunk of property but he sold it off. The first piece was the settlement of Edie Aguilar.

	SP:	Oh his first wife. Tell me about Edie, did you ever—what was your recollections of Edie?

	LP:	Well I’ve seen her off and on and only in passing, but she always shows up from time to time.

	SP:	Did you—In the time that she was married to Stetson or later when she was married to Gerald?

	LP:	No, she was already married to Hart by that time. And lived next door.



	SP:	We are much aware that you know all the wives on this side of the Atlantic, so.



So you would’ve met Stetson after the time that he and Edie had split.



	LP:	Yes.



	SP:	I kind of measure Stetson’s life by which wife he was with, but you also knew Elizabeth Gardner.

	LP:	Oh I certainly did, who was a spectacularly beautiful woman who had been the secretary to Henry Wallace, who had been the Secretary of Agriculture. And was





the Progressive Party candidate for president in [19]48. That’s how Stetson met her.

	SP:	Right. Stetson had gone north after being outed as a Klansman. LP:	In Atlanta.

	SP:	Right, so he went to New York and met Liz then. Liz was also, as I was mentioning to you, a test pilot.

	LP:	Yes but I had not known that.



	SP:	So she was a woman of great courage and opinion by the time that she was—



	LP:	But I think she found the deprivation of living in Beluthahatchee more than she can endure any longer, so she left and I understand she married an architect and lived on the east side of Manhattan. Which, you know, that’s the way to go girl.

	SP:	She and Stetson had left New York and lived for eighteen months on a boat, which she financed. From Marathon Key, they were moored at Marathon. And then they came to Belutha from there and you’re absolutely right she had enough of Belutha, they went back to New York and after that.

	LP:	But if I remember correctly, she did do a job as a stringer journalist for the



Pittsburgh Courier.



	SP:	That may be—you’ve given me something to pursue—that may be the way he got connected to the Courier. I hadn’t thought of that possibility so thank you you’ve given me another research question. I get so aggravated with Stetson that he’s dead and I can’t ask him all these questions myself, so.

	LP:	It’s too late now and my memory is fading.





	SP:	We know that Stetson was back and forth between New York and Beluthahatchee.

	LP:	At some point I was aware that he was in Europe a long period. SP:	Right, did you have much contact with him between?—

	LP:	No.



	SP:	The Liz years were the late [19]40s and it was in [19]53 that he. Is that right?



Yeah, it was [19]53 that he went to—so you didn’t have any contact with him—so how then did you start clipping for him?

	LP:	Oh I don’t know, it started quite early, but in those days the Florida Times Union, it may come as a surprise to you, newspapers really had more content in those days and frequently as today.

	C:	What sort of content was there that didn’t exist today?



	LP:	The news content. They really covered the Spanish Civil War. The picture of Franco’s troops after the offensive that split the republic—which meant that the Civil War was essentially almost over and that Franco had won—was on page one of the Florida Times Union.

	SP:	Did you know who Robert Capa was? LP:	Oh of course. The great photographer.

	SP:	Stetson had a great deal of respect for Robert Capa. LP:	Yes.

	SP:	Hungarian.



	LP:	And I’ve forgotten his wife’s name, she was also a very accomplished photographer who covered the war.





SP:  They established an institute together.



	LP:	There’s a photographic center in New York which is primarily, their materials are the basis of the inventory.

	SP:	It says in the dedication to a Guide to Jim Crow, which was published while Stetson was in Europe the first time, he acknowledges how much he relied—that you were one of the principle researchers that helped him get all this information.

LP:  Well I just read and I identified stuff that was important so he could see, whether he had seen it or not and in some instances I may have duplicated but probably not.

SP:  So you did just mail things off to New York or you mailed things off to Beluthahatchee?

LP:  I mailed ‘em all over the place.



SP:  And you were still livin’ in Jacksonville?



	LP:	Yes, I lived in Jacksonville until. I was then working freight sales at Southern Railway, and I spent the winter in Belle Glade, and then I was living in Ft.

Lauderdale. Then I left Southern Railway and went to work for the American Jewish Committee and lived in Atlanta, and then after two years there I opened the NCCJ offices in Jacksonville and Tampa, living in Tampa.

	SP:	So let’s talk a little bit about Kaye. How did you come— Kaye, Stetson’s second wife, she was after Elizabeth Gardner and before he went to Europe.

	LP:	My memory of her is not at all clear. I can’t quite picture her. I knew Mary Bruce, who was a daughter of a British Member of Parliament, and she continued to live in Jacksonville. She married a stockbroker, and they became great alcoholics.





	SP:	Well, Mary Bruce had been married to a documentary filmmaker. LP:	That’s right I had forgotten that.

	SP:	And she and Stetson were married after he came back from Europe. Did you visit at Beluthahatchee very much?

	LP:	I used to go with the Kennedy’s. Not with the Kennedy’s, with the— SP:	With the Coffee’s.

	LP:	With the Coffee’s. Every holiday, Pauline’s mother came and we always went at least once during the holiday. And Stetson did a lot of the preparation of the food and he had a big conflict with one of ‘em because she was angry that his black beans were better than hers. But I don’t remember which wife was mad about that.

	SP:	When you were visiting were they still in the bus or were they in the Jim Walter home?

	LP:	Oh no, when I first went the bus was still there but the housing had begun. SP:	Now when Woodie Guthrie stayed there they were livin’ in the bus.

	LP:	That’s correct.



	SP:	Yeah he was still livin’ in the bus. That’s when Stetson was in Europe, and Stetson and Mary Bruce built the Jim Walter home, which is a few houses north of the present cabin. Did you ever—in all these meetings with Stetson—did you ever really disagree about anything?

	LP:	I’m not sure, I think he was more inclined to entertain conspiracy theories that I wasn’t. [Laughter]

	SP:	He did that to the very end of his life.





	LP:	But I can’t remember details. You know, details become increasingly problematic as I get older and my memory becomes more fuzzy.

	SP:	It’s the overall impressions that are the ones that stick.



	LP:	And of the wives, I was very fond of Joyce Jones who was a great researcher and she deserved a lot of credit, but—

	SP:	And he gave it to her. In strange ways, as we both know. LP:	In a strange way, yeah.

	SP:	Chelsea hasn’t heard that story, but you might tell her about the most embarrassing—

	LP:	The most embarrassing thing, Stetson had been wanting his accumulated documents of academic home, and so portions of it went to the—

	SP:	University of South Florida.



	LP:	Yeah but before that they had gone— SP:	The Schomburg

	LP:	The Schomburg in New York, and part of it to the University of South Florida. At that time, the University of Florida had absolutely no interest whatsoever in Stetson’s papers. This is the woman who got them here.

	SP:	Well actually it was Bernie Machen who got them here—



	LP:	On Woodie Guthrie’s hundredth anniversary we had a concert of Woodie Guthrie music and Sandra was there and Machen and his wife were there. I’m sure that his wife, who knew who Woodie Guthrie was, was responsible for him being there. But anyway, at the intermission, Sandra and the Machen’s have a





conversation. Two weeks later, she’s exultantly calling me on the phone, she says, “Guess what? The University of Florida is taking Stetson’s papers.”

	SP:	That’s right. Actually, what Dr. Machen had asked is— LP:	Well also reconnected with the portion—

	SP:	With the south part, right. But what I was referring to was the famous dedication. LP:	Oh at the library, at the special collections at the University of South Florida.

	SP:	This was in 1996.



	LP:	And Betty Castor, who at the time was president. Was hosting this reception, and it was a lovely event. She’s introducing Stetson, then she’s introducing Stetson Kennedy’s wife, and then she learned that the wife was not there and Mrs. Ivy Bigby.

	SP:	The girlfriend.



	LP:	Yes. [Laughter]



	C:	She introduced Ivy as Mary Bruce? LP:	No.

	SP:	As Joyce Ann. C:	Oh, I see.

	LP:	It was very embarrassing to her.



	SP:	We found the note in Stetson’s papers that Joyce wrote to him saying, “Friends said I was missed.” [Laughter] And at the time Stetson had negotiated—Ivy Bigby, they were together five years, she was thirty years younger than Stetson—and she was a photographer, and her papers went to the University of South Florida. But you’ll be happy to know, Jack, that I never mentioned her





collection to Bernie Machen, and her collection is still at the University of South Florida. So it’s not in with Stetson’s papers anymore.

	LP:	Well that was one of the most embarrassing events. At some point I had gone to the men’s room and Stetson came in and I said, “Stetson I hope you know what the hell you’re doing,” and he just grunted. But that was probably the biggest crisis of his life because Joyce Ann was suing for divorce, her daughters were insisting that she get a divorce, and Stetson also recognized that if the divorce were finalized she would get Beluthahatchee.

	SP:	That’s exactly right.



	LP:	So somehow, despite the misgivings of Joyce’s daughters and her own resistance, she acquiesced and she took him back. Not only that, she summoned her daughters—the four daughters, all of whom are quite accomplished, one of them is on the Harvard Divinity School staff—and she said, “I have forgiven Stetson, and I want you to forgive Stetson and make him part of your life.

Promise me that.” And I think that they kept that bargain.



	SP:	Yeah, she was dying at the time.



LP:  It also made all the difference ‘cause I think Stetson would have died if he had lost that house. It was so integral to everything he aspired— there was nothing more important than Beluthahatchee.

SP:  He had said that he would be homeless if he didn’t have Beluthahatchee because that was the last piece of land that he had any control over.

LP:  That’s right.





	SP:	Over the years, any time the dam broke he would sell of a piece of land to get money. He never made any money, and so the only way he ever had any was when he sold off a piece of land. Except the six thousand dollars that the University of South Florida gave him for the papers so that he and Ivy could go out. But Joyce Ann was, she had serious abdominal problems the whole time he was gone. And I think he may remember there was a note back from her saying, “Please don’t tell our friends that I’m dying.” Although she was and she didn’t really know that.

	LP:	And also, to his credit, when she was dying he created a hospice room on the ground floor of Beluthahatchee and cared for her. I mean, she deserved it and she did the right thing, but I gave him great credit for having responded in such a wonderful way.

	SP:	Were there ever any of Stetson’s initiatives that you didn’t agree with? Were there things that he undertook that you didn’t share?

	LP:	No, I think he wasn’t as successful in some—I’m drawing a blank on the Black Florida schoolteacher who was indeed the first martyr of the civil rights struggle.

	SP:	Harry T. Moore.



	LP:	Harry T. Moore. I think he was frustrated that he hadn’t been able to accomplish more about elevating him to the prominence in Black history, and Florida history, and civil rights history that Harry T. Moore and his wife—they were bombed by the Ku Klux Klan on Christmas Eve in Mims, Florida. I think it was just a sense of not having accomplished all that he would like—I don’t remember initiatives.





	SP:	I can tell you that was so important to him. The morning that my cousin and I literally carried him out of our house for his last ride to the hospital in Jacksonville, that he pointed to the Harry Moore files which a graduate student and I had organized, and he said, “Sandra, don’t let them forget about Harry.” He knew he was dying and that was really what was on his mind, so you got it on the nose, that disappointment.

	LP:	He ran his, on the Progressive Party ticket or the Independent. In 1948, he ran for the United States Senate against George Smathers. He got three votes I think.

	SP:	Actually, he got a couple of hundred— LP:	I know, I was mostly—

	SP:	He got arrested on the way at the polls because he was a write-in candidate, and most of the African Americans might not spell his name correctly, and if the name was misspelled, they wouldn’t count the vote. And so he was giving out campaign literature closer to the polling place than the law allowed, and so he was hauled off to the pokey on the day that he [inaudible 33:48]. At the end of his life—

	LP:	And he always loved St. Augustine. So Sandra made it possible for him to move to St. Augustine. There’s nothing he liked more than get in the car, and God he was a terrible driver. He was a menace to himself and everyone on the road. But he loved St. Augustine, so he finally lived and died in St. Augustine.

	SP:	Yes he did. When his pulmonary specialist explained to him that he could live at Beluthahatchee or he could breathe, but he couldn’t do both, that’s when—





literally in those terms—he knew that he had to find another place to be. Moving into St. Augustine was obviously the next step. And of course, you know, I had to take him back out to—

	LP:	He loved Clark’s Fish Camp.



	SP:	He loved Clark’s Fish Camp, we spent a lot of time there.



	LP:	I have happy memories of there. And locally, he loved Emiliano’s.



	SP:	Yes, he loved Emiliano’s. We have had wonderful meals with you there. LP:	We’ll have to go there later.

	SP:	We’ll do that.



	LP:	If they’re open, today’s Monday. SP:	You knew him well, you said that—

	LP:	Yes he was certainly one of the most significant people whom I met along my life’s journey, and I think that I served him well by supporting him in ways that I could. I didn’t necessarily approve of everything that he did. [Laughter]

	SP:	Were you involved at all in the Peace and Justice Coalition?



	LP:	Yeah, I went to some meetings and gave a little bit of money but I wasn’t active in it. I’ve been active in a lot of other things, but.

	SP:	Well now that the foundation is moving forward on his one hundredth birthday, which is coming up in October. What would you like to see us be doing in his name?

	LP:	Well I think the barriers of bigotry are still very challenging and I think we now have to extend the anti-bigotry to deal with the deep-seated homophobia in our





society because I think that’s increasingly the great. And it transcends race because the homophobes can be of all races and religions.

	SP:	Did Stetson ever give you any indication of where he was on the issue?



	LP:	We never had that discussion. That was never reasoned. During his lifetime, race relations and anti-Semitism were the big—and anti-Semitism has retarded as Jews increasingly became a part of the economic elite. When I was growing up, the Jewish community of the United States, although it had a few very rich people, it was working class. A hundred and two or three years ago, when they had the Triangle Shirtwaist Fire. That was viewed as a labor tragedy, a Jewish tragedy, because those young women were teenage laborers, majority of whom were Jews and those who weren’t Jews were Italian. It was a working class community.

	C:	I had a question about, kind of going back to your interest in articles and clipping articles. What news sources, you mentioned the Pittsburgh Courier, the Florida Times-Union, back then what were your favored news sources and what are your favored news sources today?

	LP:	Well my favorite newspaper today is the New York Times and the Tampa Bay Times, formally the St. Petersburg Times.

	SP:	Oh, the St. Petersburg Times got bought.



	LP:	No, it wasn’t bought, the Tampa Tribune is no longer published. It is gone. It was bought probably for one dollar by the Tampa Bay Times. Unfortunately, it’s not a newspaper because they don’t take mail subscriptions, it’s not in the library, the only way you can get it is if you buy hard copies in the Tampa Bay area or in





Tallahassee or online. It used to be when I first moved to Gainesville, when you went to the main office of the post office, which is no longer the main office, the mailbox outside was the local paper, the Ocala paper, the Orlando paper, the Florida Times-Union, the Wall Street Journal, the New York Times, the Miami Herald, El Nuevo, a whole line. You could just collect newspapers out of those boxes, put your money in and go home and read to your heart’s content. That doesn’t exist anymore.

	SP:	I remember your thick envelopes coming to Stetson at the very end of his life, and still come to me—

	LP:	On occasion. I’m still occasionally clipping, Sandra. I do less clipping ‘cause I’m dealing with macular degeneration for one thing, so I told her, “No I have not read this I have identified this as important, now it’s your responsibility.”

	SP:	Well I’m hoping after we finish here if you have an interest in going over to see the current status of Stetson’s papers because it’s really pretty impressive.

	LP:	Oh I would love to.



	SP:	But what would you like to see the University of Florida be doing with the papers and with these interviews that are coming over here? It’s my understanding—

	LP:	Have you given any thought to what the foundation is going to be doing on the hundredth anniversary?

	SP:	Yes. We’re doing our [inaudible 40:46] down there. But right now, the agency that really is doing the most to put his legacy out there is the George Smathers Library. We always thought that was really really ironic.





	LP:	I refer to it as the University of Florida Library. I think George Smathers is one of the great historic disgraces of Florida.

	SP:	And I think what the Sam Proctor Oral History Center is doing something with him. Something about a platform that—

	LP:	And he’s such a fraud, you know, but they renamed all the libraries. And they thought there’d be this big infusion of money; it didn’t happen.

	SP:	It didn’t happen. What would you like to see them be doing?



	LP:	I don’t know, I’ll have to give some thought to this. If I suggested it, it wouldn’t happen.

	SP:	You’d be surprised. Be careful what you ask for Jack, because there are amazing ways like Bernie Machen showing up at Woody Guthrie’s birthday party you know.

	LP:	Well that’s because Mrs. Machen knew who Woody Guthrie was. SP:	Yes I know it was Mrs. Machen who got him there.

	LP:	Because I’m sure he did not.



	SP:	And by the way, she was here for the dedication of the papers. Actually, we have Dean Russell, Nancy Russell, to really be thanking for that because it was negotiated on a department-to-department basis so she carried the water on that one.

	LP:	Well good.



	SP:	Chelsea can you think of things that we haven’t touched on?



	C:	A couple of questions. Going back to you mentioning the homophobia as kind of a—





	LP:	I think prejudice and race, hatred and homophobia are still unresolved issues and they have increased urgency.

	C:	I wonder what your thoughts are on the—this is of course two days after one of the worst mass shootings in American history in Orlando at a gay bar—and I wonder what your thoughts are on that?

	LP:	How times have changed. When I was quite young, there was a terrible fire in New Orleans in a gay bar. One of the people who died was my friend Nancy Adams’ brother, and her father owned the El Comodoro hotel in Miami, they were very high status WASPs in Miami. She was designated by the family to go claim the body. Well, her treatment at the morgue in New Orleans was so horrendous and then they had great difficulty finding an Episcopal priest who would bury him.

	SP:	And what year was this do you know? LP:	Sometime back in the [19]50s.

	SP:	Back in the [19]50s.



	LP:	And Nancy Adams was a remarkable woman and she taught at the American Friends Service Committee Preschool in the town in West Virginia—Farmville I think it is. Was the first system to totally close the public school rather than integrate ‘em, but she taught in the school that had been started by the American Friends Service Committee for one year. And she was engaged for a while to Al Lowenstein, thank God she didn’t marry him but he got a lot of money out of her.

	C:	I wondered too as someone who as many years has kept up with the news—



	LP:	But I think the progress we—actually, in terms of acceptance of LGBT, is that the word?





	SP:	Yes.



	LP:	Is faster than I would ever have thought, but nonetheless the resistance is very deep and very real and it’s going to be coming increasingly and publicly contentious.

	C:	What are your thoughts on the election?



	LP:	Well, the possibility that Donald J. Trump may become President of the United States. And in large part it’s because Democrats really betrayed their base. They have not delivered benefits for the working class, or the unions, and they endorse economic and trade policies that have prepared a lead. It’s a much more aspirational, and it’s not hereditary, but we have a new elite and it’s happening all around the world. Can you imagine in France that it’s a socialist party that wants to end the contract with the workers of France to increase the work week from thirty five to forty five hours a week? Abolish the protections that make it more difficult for employers to fire workers? So the French have been—you knew about all of the protests all across France? The airlines weren’t operating, the trains weren’t operating, protests all across. But if the socialists are betrayed, who’s left? And they’re going to lose, too. It’s the people who have been abandoned, we have the phenomenon of the poorest states of the union: West Virginia, South Carolina, Alabama, voting inevitably a Wall Street candidate for governor and the United States Senate. Most of the people don’t vote or if they do they’re voting because we want to keep our guns and prayer in the schools.

They vote on the social issues.





	SP:	Single-issue voters. Well Jack, we’ve been talking about doing this a long time and I don’t know when we’ll do it.

	LP:	But I was thinking, if Sandra waits much longer my memory will have totally vanished. It took me forever to remember Edith, the first wife, whose picture you must see. You know his book, Grits and Grunts, it’s one of the most charming bargains he did.

	SP:	Absolutely.



	LP:	It’s a wonderful look at Key West in the [19]50s. And in the early pages there’s a picture of Edith Aguilar, whom I refer to as a conch bombshell, and she really was.

	SP:	Yes she was, she was beautiful.



	LP:	Do you have access to Grits and Grunts?



	C:	I’m sure I could find it. I have one final question for you and then you can— LP:	I think Stetson’s best book is Palmetto Country.

	SP:	I think Stetson thought his best book was Palmetto Country.



	C:	One of the questions we talked about together that hasn’t come up yet is, you talked about how Stetson impacted everyone around him, he changed everyone that he met in some way—

	LP:	Well I’m not sure about that, but he tried.



	C:	How would you say he impacted you in your life?



	LP:	Well he’s been a part of my life I’ve never really analyzed a mutual impact, I think I had some impact, certainly I think he was grateful that I was as supportive of him. But also, I think, supportive of crisis in his life.





	SP:	Yes you were.



	LP:	And there were crisis in his life.



	SP:	What was the biggest crisis in his life that you supported him?



	LP:	I think his biggest crisis was when he thought he was going to be homeless. SP:	That’s true.

	LP:	I don’t think he would actually have been physically homeless, but I think his life would have ended had he lost Beluthahatchee. And there was no certainty that Joyce was going to forgive, ‘cause she had every right not to.

	SP:	I asked him, he told me that within the first few weeks of the five years that he was with Ivy that he knew that this wasn’t going to work out, and I said, “Why did you stay?” And he said, “Because I thought I had burned my bridges.”

	LP:	Well I thought he had too. And I think that was the maximum crisis in his life, and the fear of losing—Beluthahatchee, his whole identity was involved there.

	SP:	That’s right. Interestingly, for your own information, he moved to my house in April of 2006 and we made it a practice to go back out to Beluthahatchee whenever he felt like he needed to go. But not once did he ever say that he missed it. Whenever I would go to pick him up after he had been out there puttering around for several hours, he was ready to get in the car and go. So it was really strange, he had to have that life estate because that was his touchstone, but he never seemed to really miss it.

	LP:	And I don’t know how he could’ve been so fortunate to meet Sandra, because without Sandra, Stetson’s presence as an influence in the state would’ve disappeared. I think she deserves the credit of having become the—





	SP:	Why would you say that? What did you think I did that made any difference there?

	LP:	You’ve made all the difference in the world, I think, in terms of the university now absorbed him into their program, which they would not have done. That was just one of the many things. You have been the great guardian of his literary and historic legacy.

	SP:	Well we’ve still got several more books to publish. Not the least of which is Dissident at Large, which encompasses—the manuscripts alone for Dissident at Large—encompass two 3 foot shelves. I need to get all of that into one or two volumes.

	LP:	You’ve got a number of years to cut out them. SP:	Thank you.

	LP:	I’m a great admirer of Sandra’s, and she knows that.



	SP:	Well Stetson and I had worked for the same things all our lives, so it was kind of natural that I couldn’t know where my influence on Stetson would begin or end or his on me. We were so close in our thinking and what we cared about. I truly believe he lived as long as he did because he was always on purpose.

	LP:	I think you came along just at the moment when he needed you. SP:	Well, it worked both ways.

	C:	Alright.



	LP:	And sadly I was there on the night he died. Just a few hours before, when I went with your granddaughter.





	SP:	My granddaughter came to pick you up and take you over there and yes, the next morning he passed.

	LP:	And Joyce’s daughter from Ft. Lauderdale was leaving, so— SP:	Leslie.

	LP:	Leslie, yes, who was married to an Egyptian arms dealer. [Laughter] SP:	Everyone around Stetson was colorful, including you, Jack.

	LP:	Colorful?



	SP:	Colorful.



	LP:	So, do you have any other questions that I may not be able to answer? C:	Is there anything else that you want to say that we didn’t cover?

	LP:	No, I hope that Stetson’s contribution to the folklore and chronicling of Florida and the changes in Florida continue to be part of the legacy of people who learn about Florida as they adopt it. And it’s changing, and the reality is that we are exceeding the carrying capacity of our water resources and eventually, people will be leaving Florida rather than moving in. But it won’t happen in my lifetime, they’ll still be coming in. Unfortunately, we will be parrying the way as Weyerhaeuser takes over this county.

	C:	Well I really appreciate you coming in and talking. SP:	Thank you very much Jack, we really appreciate it. LP:	Tell Paul Ortiz and Sheila that I send my greetings. C:	We will.

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Cristina Rodriguez, April 4, 2017 Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, January 12, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 22, 2019