AAHP 351; Welch; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 351 Ferman Welch

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed on February 26, 2008

8 minutes | 3 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 351

Interviewee: Ferman Welch Interviewer:

Date: February 26, 2008



	I:	This documentary has been a year old idea. It’s a part of our African American history celebration here in Mebane. This is a designated area for Eva Lave so as you can see all around folks that have come here have shared their experiences and that’s what this documentary is about. So you all are making history today, thank you for coming. Thank you for being here. There’s some questions that you were given, but I’m just going to ask you gradually as you talk and explain your experiences that’s what were here to get. So your more than likely answer some of the questions already through our conversations. Okay? Mr. Shall, this is Mr.

Shall who’s a technology guru and our teacher and TV production teacher who’s filling for us. Do we need to get the ladies with their purses is that okay?

	S:	That’s fine. I think we’re okay.



	I:	Okay, all right. Well, we’re gonna start and I will start with having you tell me just a little bit about who you are and your experiences and we’ll start with Mr. Welch.

	W:	You asked about my school days, my school. I:	Yes sir.

	W:	All right, I started off in 1920. I had to walk about a mile and a half to school.



School started at 8:30 so we were out of school at 3:30. We had about thirty-five people in the classes. The classes were about an hour long and the material we used, we’d have books that we have now. Basically we had reading, writing, we didn’t have any labs. Our teacher had [inaudible 2:57]. She did impress me quite a bit and after I finished High School I think she got married and [inaudible 3:39]. School closed as I can recall. It started in April I think and each teacher would





give a close exercising. A play. And after tenth grade I went to High School in Gainesville.

	I:	Oh I see!



	W:	Basketball and baseball was here. I:	And football?

	W:	Oh yeah we had—basketball, but we didn’t have football during my time. That had football come on later. I remember coaching football at school at the High School in Gainesville. But after I left then we had football [inaudible 5:23] under Richard Brook. I don’t think you all would know him but he used to coach here. And then I played basketball.

	I:	Oh okay. Tell us about your experience. W:	You couldn’t read this.

	I:	I’m just looking at your question to see where you are so we can make sure we get through everybody else’s answer.

	W:	Oh I’m sorry. Give a brief summary of your educational experience. Well, during the time I worked here [Inaudible at 6:40] and we had some very fine teachers; Mayla Hughes, Bob Evan and I’m not-[Inaudible at 6:51] We had basketball and baseball. How do you pay your power? How do you and your power and the community react to the boarding school? You noticed I said that I went to school here to tenth grade. After tenth grade I was living in [Inaudible at 7:30] but now, before I lived here, we had to go to school, the White School closed early.

They closed at 3:00 and we were [Inaudible at 7:54] at 3:30 and I guess she can





come to stay a while. So, that was experience that we weren’t so pleased with but that’s the way it was.

	U:	Thank you Mr. Welch. [End of Interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, May 3, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 25, 2019