AAHP 526;; Glover;; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 526 Sharon Glover

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Ebony Love on October 7, 2017 21 minutes | 12 pages



Abstract: Sharon Glover, in this interview talks about her experience in deciding what university to attend. Ms. Glover also talks about the molding of her identity at UF through her involvement with being involved in Greek life, her peers from Jacksonville and living in Broward Hall. She also talks about her involvement with the creation of the Minority Business Society.



Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Black Alumni; Gainesville; University of Florida, Kappa]























































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 526

Interviewee: Sharon Glover Interviewer: Ebony Love Date: October 7, 2017





	L:	My name is Ebony Love and I’m with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. Today is October 7, 2017 and I’m in the Reitz Union as part of the Association of Black Alumni Weekend. I’m sitting with Miss-­-­

	G:	Sharon Bruton Glover.



	L:	And Miss Glover what years did you attend UF?



	G:	I entered in the fall of [19]75, yes fall of [19]75. I have graduated with my bachelors in the fall of [19]80 and then I came back for my MBA in [19]82 or [19]84.

	L:	Thank you for that and if you could give me a quick background, where were you born? And in what year?

	G:	Goodness, let’s see I was Tallahassee, Florida in 1957 and I grew up in Jacksonville.

	L:	Oh what part of Jacksonville?



	G:	Over near Edward Waters College.



	L:	Okay, yeah so did you go to James Weldon? G:	No I didn’t.

	L:	Okay what middle and high school?



	G:	I went to Southside Junior High and Englewood Senior.





	L:	Oh Englewood! Okay that’s kind of where I live [Laughter]. G:	Oh okay.

	L:	Yeah, okay so you lived in Jacksonville, what were your parents’ educational backgrounds?

	G:	Both my parents were school teachers.



	L:	And did they teach in Jacksonville when you lived there? G:	Yes.

	L:	Okay and what grades did they teach?



	G:	The variety, I think my dad mostly did middle school seventh and ninth grade and mom, she did both junior and senior high.

	L:	Okay that’s fair, okay what made you choose the University of Florida?



	G:	[Laughter] Okay let’s see at the time my best friend and I, Janice Sepress, we were ace boon coons in high school, and she wanted to come to the University of Florida because they had a good physical therapy program and we were going to go to school together and I think we also thought of going to Atlanta Spelman, but we didn’t want to go to a girl school so Spelman was out and we thought about going to Morris Brown and then my dad told me that Morris Brown was raggedy [Laughter] and we said, “We don’t wanna go there”. So because she was interested in UF we came here and I wasn’t as particular, I really laugh now at how little about exactly where I went, but I was going to major in accounting and I figured that all schools had a pretty decent business program, you know,





that was kind of universal. So we really lean more on her desire to come to a PT program and that’s how it transformed.

	L:	Okay so when you got to University of Florida, what had you heard about it? G:	Not a whole lot, I have an older sister who went here…

	L:	And what was her name? G:	Angela Bruton.

	L:	Okay.



	G:	And let’s see I knew that they had a good football team. Well, yeah I think that the team kind of— I remember the Florida-­Georgia game and that for them was a big thing. But I wasn’t as much into— I didn’t have a whole lot of knowledge of the University of Florida. I mean, of course I knew of it, but I really hadn’t paid a whole lot attention to it and my parents were FAMU grads and I spent all of my fall weekends going to FAMU football games. So the University of Florida really wasn’t on my radar per say.

	L:	I’ve been hearing, of the interviews that I’ve done today, a lot of people had FAMU grads as parents and then they chose to come to UF.

	G:	Right.



	L:	Did they try to push you go to a HBCU?



	G:	[Laughter] It’s funny, my mom said she was disappointed that I didn’t go to FAMU but I said, “Well, you know, you never even asked me to fill out an application.” So it’s like I was a, what is it, a National Achievement Scholar or a semi-­finalist





for the National Achievement Scholar so I had a lot of interest, people were interested in recruiting me and the university did provide me with a honor scholarship so that was part of kind of, oh yeah that more incentive to go there. But yeah mom, yeah she would have loved for me to have been a FAMU grad. Yeah just a little disappointed but she didn’t really express it, yeah [Laughter]

	L:	Okay you got here in [19]75 did you come in the fall or the summer? G:	The fall.

	L:	Okay when you came in in the fall like what was your experience first stepping here at UF?

	G:	Let’s see I had my roommate, I was telling you about, she came in the summer so I came in I guess I kind of had a head start of learning the lay of the land because she’d already been here and had a lot of friends from high school, she went to Raines in Jacksonville so there were a lot of them around, Raines and Ribault, and so I kind of folded into that and then my older sister is here and she, let’s see, my older was the little sisters for the Kappas, they called them silhouette at the time and our father is a Kappa, well and his brothers. So I guess I was already interested in joining that group, so I became a Kappa silhouette that fall semester and just kind of build your network kind of automatically from these things you choose. So between the Kappa little sisters and living in Broward Hall and I guess, the Jacksonville connections those are kind of the things that kind of molded my identity here.





	L:	Okay, so you came in, did you graduate from the same program that you came into UF?

	G:	Yes, yes.



	L:	Okay, okay did you have any mentors that helped you along the way? G:	What specifically in my field? Or just in general?

	L:	In general.



	G:	I consider Rosie Phillips Bingham to be a mentor. She was a Psychologist in the Counseling Center and she had this program called the Black Women Self Enrichment Program and we met weekly, yeah it was a weekly meeting. Yeah it was a group of Black women and we just shared experiences and she might guide us in some questions or whatever but, you know. She was pretty instrumental to me as just kind of helping me to figure out who I was. College of Business didn’t get real involved in the college. Later on we founded the Minority Business Society and so I got to interact a little bit with the Dean Lanzillotti but I wouldn’t call him a mentor. Yeah I think probably Rosie was probably the mentor, I don’t remember a lot of people who stand out that way.

	L:	Were there any organizations you were really heavily involved in outside being a silhouette?

	G:	Yes [Laughter].



	L:	Would you like to name them? Or even one that really stands out to you?





	G:	Sure I was very active in my sorority Delta Sigma Theta, I also joined Gama Sigma Sigma sorority, I was active in the Black Student Union, and that’s it. The Kappa silhouettes became the Kappa Kittens. Let’s see what else? Later on I did, in graduate school, I did Student Government I was a member of that ASVAC board, I was on the Board of Managers here at the Union, and I was initiated in Florida Blue Key my graduating semester, I was the first Black woman initiated into Blue Key. Let’s see probably somethings missing but those were kind of the major ones I participated in.

	L:	So there’s kind of a divide between there is some organizations that are historically Black and then some organizations that you said you were the first Black woman inducted into Florida Blue Key. Did you see a difference in your organizations in the sense of what they did? How they were they welcoming to you or anything like that? And so in your historical Black organizations, I would assume but you can correct me if I’m wrong, but they were more welcoming and then in organization like Florida Blue Key like how was the environment? Or how were the programs and stuff like that happened in there?

	G:	Let’s see, Florida Blue Key I was tapped into the graduating semester so I really didn’t get to participate but then I came to graduate school so I did get an opportunity to involve myself in. Yeah, I don’t think I’ve ever felt unwelcomed anywhere and I don’t even know if I allowed that to happen to me [Laughter], you know, it’s just kind of “Here’s where I am and this is why I’m here and so be it.” So all of my experiences were pretty positive, you know? Yeah I guess I kind of saw differences. No….I don’t know I kind of feel like both Blue Key and Gamma





Sig seemed to be more structured, you know, as the traditionally Black organizations I was involved in definitely had structure, but I don’t know maybe that was just a feeling that we had, that family kind of connection, but yeah I didn’t have any problems if I did I don’t remember.

	L:	Okay and I’m not trying to like-­ G:	Yeah, yeah.

	L:	In your organizations what were you passionate about?



	G:	Community service and I was more politically aware, social action, you know, I don’t even remember was the issues were per say, let’s see I think Jimmy Carter was president…when did Reagan come in? Yeah I guess Jimmy Carter was president then Reagan…and, you know, I just remember whatever the cause was, I don’t remember any specific events going on. I do remember I guess there might have been a gentlemen. Was he killed? You know, thinking now that was how many years ago, he was killed it might have been a police or some altercation and I remember us marching down the street, you know, was it Cali— I don’t remember the name, but I remember marching and I was kind of questioning, so what are we accomplishing at this march, you know. But remember, you know, that type of incident, a lot of my involvement was through the sorority and so whenever we went to conferences and conventions we would write letters about whatever was of importance to us, you know, writing letters to Congress. Since the ERA was a big thing at that time, the Equal Rights Amendment. Yeah it’s funny how it all kind of blends and erases, but yeah it was





I would consider myself to been you know, not so much an activist but very much involved and concerned about equality, involvement, and opportunity and those kinds of things.

	L:	So I know the [19]70s was the time when all the Black Greek letter organizations were coming on campus, how significant was that you?

	G:	Well I wasn’t here when they chartered. They chartered just before I got here, so I really don’t have a point of comparison but the Greeks were very well known on campus and sort of the kind of the central point of our social activity, you know, the Greeks sponsored the dances that we would go to everybody’s dance, you know, on Friday and Saturday night or their balls…and so, you know, for me maybe because I was involved in it, you know, just seeing that was the central corner of life to the university and then probably as the years went on it expanded out into to some other things and I did have a particular interest in being a student of the University of Florida, not a Black student at University of Florida. So I was looking for other things to involved myself which-­

	U:	Looks like someone is getting some good mentorship! G:	[Laughter] I’m doing the oral history.

	U:	Oh okay!



	G:	So what was I saying?



	L:	Being a student rather than being a Black student.





	G:	Yeah so that was one of the reasons I joined Gamma Sigma Sigma cause I don’t know like now it might be predominately Black but when I joined I was one of the first Black members, you know. My DP or pledge mom, whatever they call them, was Black but there were very few in Gamma Sigma and so that was something that I did because I wanted to be involved in something non-­Black, you know, I wanted to get the full experience of my stay here at the University of Florida.

	L:	Okay so would you say that a lot of your activities were on or off campus? G:	On-­campus.

	L:	And if there was one building that you could say that you could call your home where would that be?

	G:	Goodness! Well I mean it was really just which resident hall I was living in. I started in Broward Hall, I was there for two years. Then I went to the Murphree Area and I think I probably stayed in the Murphree area until I graduated, I was off-­campus for a quick minute with, you know, they had a lottery come up so you couldn’t just sign up for your room so I think I might have been kicked off in the lottery but then I got back to campus because I didn’t have a car, I didn’t have money, you know, so campus was best solution, you know, for me.

	L:	Okay is there anything you wanted to talk about that I didn’t ask?



	G:	Let’s see, we talked about the different organizations on campus. I guess probably another part of my history is that I was one of the first two Black women inducted into the UF Hall of Fame.





	L:	Yes.



	G:	Yeah so but…



	L:	How was that experience?



	G:	Oh it was a great honor. I was awarded the Student Leadership Award, the Female Student Graduate Leadership Award. They select, I guess, a man and a woman each graduating class and you’re presented with an award at graduation and that was just such an awesome experience. You know, I walked in behind the President and the other people on the dais and I sat on the dais during graduation, you know, and my parents, you know, they send a letter to them and they walk to my family, remember it’s not just my parents but whoever. I gave a list of names and addresses and they sent everybody a personal invitation to my graduation, they sat in a reserved spot and, you know, they gave accolades to them as well and it was just yeah. Gosh after all these years here [Laughter] it was a really a special honor. I was really pleased with that. Yeah and that the Hall of Fame was kind of the icing on the cake to be recognized in that way.

	L:	That’s great and like so when you say that you’re inducted into the Hall of Fame and you were awarded the Student Leader Award, were there any like particular organizations that they identified you for those with? Or was just everything overall?

	G:	It was overall just a, you know, conglomerate, you know, active involvement in BSU, sorority, Student Government, Gamma Sig., there’s probably a few things I did I don’t remember. Yeah, I think and I was also appointed to the Student





Board of Managers at the O’Connell Center and the O’Connell Center was brand new then they built while was here, but we never really did anything with that but I think with just kind of showing the well roundedness and then I did a little recruiting, I mean not recruiting but what’s the word? I cannot think of the word but I was trying to sell myself. So, I was telling one other administrators that I knew would be in, you know, the selection committee that, I guess, the thing that I was proud of was that I tried to lead an example and encouraged Black students to branch out and be involved in other organizations and I was really pleased, you know, one day I was on campus and a student walked up to me and said, “Well hey, you know, I’ve seen you and I know you’re involved in a lot of things and I want to do what you do”, and that just meant the world to me, to see that it was working. That I was being an example and that others did want to do some of the things that I was doing.

	L:	So, those were two of the things I didn’t ask you about. Are there is anything else I didn’t ask you and you wanted to expand on?

	G:	Let’s see…we didn’t talk about my MBA experience and what I have to say about that. That was pretty straight forward, I mean by that time, I guess, I was leaning more towards the professional rather than the student side. Yeah, that experience was pretty pleasant, it was tough but not too tough and you just did your work and the interaction, probably began to learn a little more about the politics about, you know, promoting yourself for to, you know, get that job, that internship, etcetera…but yeah it was a favorable experience.





	L:	Okay, well I want to thank you for taking the opportunity for giving a little bit of your history so it could be included in the overall history of UF and if you have any other questions, of course, you can feel free to reach out to us on that information here.

	G:	Okay.



	L:	And once again thank you for your time. G:	Thank you Ebony.

[End of interview]











Transcribed by:

Omar Sanchez,

June 14, 2019

Audio-­edited by:

Sandra Romero

June 20, 2019

Final edit by:

Sandra Romero

May 13, 2020