AAHP 454; Sneed; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 454 Ernest Sneed

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Paul Ortiz on September 6, 2016 25 minutes | 9 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 454

Interviewee: Ernest Sneed Interviewer: Paul Ortiz Date: September 6, 2016



	O:	Mr. Sneed, first of all I’d like to begin by thanking you so much for taking time out of your day to be interviewed. We are with the University of Florida Oral History Project and we just feel very honored to be able to talk to you about your experiences as being one of the members of the Montford Marines. Could you tell me what it was like to be in the Marines during World War II?

	S:	Pardon?



	U:	Can you tell him how it was in the Marines?



	S:	Well, I’m going tell you it’s a long story. Have you ever been somewhere, didn’t nobody want you there, but they couldn’t get you out?

	O:	That sounds like a good story to tell. I’ve been in a few, but not like you. [Laughter]

	S:	Oh, right! Now, they opened the door in [19]42, and we was in the Marines on trial, to see could you be a Marine. And where there was a hundred and sixty nine years old, ‘fore they let the first Black one in there! And the one didn’t want you in there, they couldn’t get you out. But they had authorities over you. And they can make it miserable if they want. But, God was in the plan.

	O:	Yes, sir.



	S:	We come through with flying colors. We was the first outfit to do night-fire practicing on Guam. I was in the 52nd to fifth battalion, and we had to take target practice at night when the others covered the daytime.

	O:	That was in Guam?





	S:	Yeah, we were gone nine months. But, we passed. Every target they crossed they shot it down and shot it up. The commander said, excuse what I’m fixin to say, “You got a damn good eye, ready for combat.” So, whatever you do, wherever you at, give it your best and it’ll pay off after a while.

	O:	Yes, sir. What was Guam like?



	S:	Guam was kind of like nowhere. It’s just a jungle over there, all I seen. [Inaudible 3:02] Magerio Island, we stayed there five months. And we left there and went to Guam and stayed there nine months. And left Guam and come to Enewetak and then there was a little tree on it. We used to drive four baseball courts at one part. And it was about this high out the water. The water would come right to the top, but it wouldn’t go over it. There was nothing good about it, but we made it.

	O:	You made it. Mr. Sneed could you tell me a little bit about your experience in boot camp? My father was in the Marines in the late [19]50s, so he talked about boot camp.

	S:	Boot camp? [Laughter] A Marine never forgets boot camp. [Laughter] Oh, yes! Let me see, now, where to start at. From the day you walk in that gate, you is a different person.

	O:	Yes, sir.



	S:	A lot of things done to you, don’t make sense. You see, the reason I know, I know what I went through. I was an NCO, and I know how I handle my men. When you get into boot camp, they cut some the hair off your head, and they left some. That’s the first step. We had to run everywhere you went. If you went to the bathroom, you had to run there and back. But the sun got you all hot and the





women got behind you and they cut to running out. You had 3 months of training, and buddy, I went in there weighing 170 pounds got through boot training, weighed 156 [pounds]. Then I picked up the pounds after I got further. But, every able bodied-man need two years of basic training. It’s better to have it and don’t need it, than need it and ain’t got it. But now, I didn’t want to go in there, but now I wouldn’t be nowhere’s else but a Marine. Be the best, and they are the best.

	O:	Yes, sir. Now, you were an NCO in the Marines, can you tell me, how did you make rank back in those days?

	S:	How did I make rank? Alright. I was transferred, I was carried to — we were shipping out Saturday and they sent us a bunch of boots on Friday evening. I was in the outfit that really had all the people they need. When we got on Guam, the tents didn’t have no steps, that step up off the ground up on the tent. So one day I was sitting down, wasn’t doing nothing, my mind told me, said, make a pair of steps [Inaudible 7:19] woods off. I sit down, cut the things out and put them together, told them how to nail them up to his tent. The next morning I was up for PFC. Two months later I was up for Corporal. Then, I went up for Sergeant and the CO turned me down cause I wouldn’t stay over there three months after the war was over. What made the man mad, and I didn’t care if he did get mad, he come in my office and talk man-to-man. But either I was a Major or he was a Corporal, one of the two. I had an eighteen month old son I had never seen. So, I told him, I said, “Major, I spent my time I want to go home.” I said, “If I was going to stay in the Corps I would take this out, but I’m getting out.” I said, “I wouldn’t stay here three more months for the rank of Major,” and that’s what made him





mad. [Laughter] I wasn’t lying, I wouldn’t have. But it is a good outfit, if you tough. Now, if you ain’t tough don’t fool with it. And country boys makes the best of soldiers.

	O:	Speaking of that, Mr. Sneed, can you tell me about some of the men that you served with, did you serve with any people you grew up with or did you meet a lot of new men?

	S:	No, it wasn’t but three of us left here and each one went a different direction. We had a Sergeant Major from Daytona, he was James Earl [Heugett]. He taught at that University down there. But, I ain’t seen nobody but two people I was in there with since I got out of there. I was told, a nephew of mine, they trained about 30,000 at Montford Point. And I had a nephew tell me that less than 500 hundred men.

	O:	Were most of the Black Marines, Mr. Sneed, were they from the South or were they from different parts of the country?

	S:	They had all over the United States, they didn’t have but one place to train them back then. Then they send you from California to North Carolina, anywhere, because Montford Point was the only place they had to train Black Marines.

	O:	When we started the interview you were saying, have you ever been in a place where they don’t really want you, did you have to deal with discrimination against Black Marines being a Black person?

	S:	Well, let me see now. When I went back home, yeah there’s discriminating.



Because, we had a Sergeant called Huff. Huff was about twice as big as me. He made first Sergeant. He went out on liberty and six Marines was gonna pull them





stripes off him. I’d have been scared to get up close to the man, big as he was. He told ‘em, “Well you didn’t put them up there, you damn sure can’t take them down.” He end up beatin them six Marines. They brought him up to the CO, and the CO looked at him and said, “I just want to see what one man look like that could beat six Marines.” Now, that’s discrimination, right there. But, if God’s for you, the world can’t hurt you.

	O:	Yes, sir. Mr. Sneed, when you were training what type of weapons did you learn to—?

	S:	M1.



	O:	An M1, okay.



	S:	And then after I got overseas I used to use a thirty caliber machine gun; and from a thirty to a fifty. You had three months of training and then you had a month of advanced training; that was for jungles and whatnot.

	O:	And, did you train to be a weapons expert, was that your MOS?



	S:	No, they moved me around so much I didn’t hardly stay in one place very much.



But, everywhere they sent me I left, then they sent me somewhere else. They just kept moving me around from a truck driver on. We had a CO — he told us one day, sat down, we had a meeting. And he said, “I ain’t got but one NCO in this whole outfit; one.” Everybody’s looking to see who that one was. He said you got born leaders, that was born to lead, and then you got people who’s trained to lead. Said, “Corporal Sneed is the only NCO I got in this whole outfit, out of all ya’ll. He’s got the same mens ya’ll got and he handle them, now, I don’t know how he do it.” I know how. I stayed the barracks with them. He said, he never





brings a man up to me; he handles them himself. And the day I left Saipan, them fellas cried like they momma was dead, said the good thing was going home [Laughter]. But, I treated them like they was men. I didn’t have to treat them like I was treated. [Inaudible 14:59]. I taught ‘em how to be people.

	O:	So, Mr. Sneed, it sounds to me that was your philosophy of leadership, as NCO, is you would treat people like men, like they deserve to be treated.

	S:	Well, I’m gonna tell you, you can catch more flies with honey than you can vinegar. And, the better you treat your men, the better they are going to treat you. I was a little ‘ol country boy, and I was raised to be people, and, I’ve done a lot of talk around here trying to tell those young folks, “You can be anything, now, you want to be.” But when I come up, it couldn’t be done with a ply hand. But it took the ply hand to get to the Black President. You had to work yourself from the bottom on up, and prosperity is worth sacrificing, if you know what you’re doing.

	O:	Yes, sir. A couple more questions, I know I don’t want to keep you too long, but can you talk about the M1 riffle? Because my father would talk about the M1, I was too young to actually have used it, but can you talk about how the M1 worked, what it was like to fire an M1 rifle?

	S:	They made them after them more. After there were three, and the M3 was bolt action, but the M1 wasn’t. It was a nice weapon. If you got in the right position, it was going to rock you, and you was going to come right back to the same place. It was an automatic, but it was semi-automatic. At 500 yards it could put them eight bullets in an eighth space. That’s just how accurate it was. If you take what





they call the sear off, then she was an automatic. You said, your father was, what was he in?

	O:	He was in the 5th Marines in the late 1950s, he went to boot camp in 1958. S:	Well, he went to Paris Island?

	O:	Yes, sir.



S:  They changed Montford Point, they named it after ole Hashmark Johnson, Camp Johnson now.

O:  Mr. Sneed, after you left the Military did you keep in contact with any of the other Montford Marines, did you ever have any reunions?

S:  We stayed in touch a little while. But, now, that’s been between sixty-five and seventy years. The last one I was in contact with was over there to Valdosta, Oscar Hart, and that was years ago. I carried a little tobacco over there, and I bumped back into him.

O:   In Valdosta?



S:  Uh, huh. But, you see, it was just a few. And when they did scatter ‘em out they was so far apart they couldn’t find ‘em.

O:  Mr. Sneed, I’m looking at a medal here that’s in front of you and it says Montford Point Marines, 1942-1949, can you tell me about this medal and what the medal means to you?

	S:	It means a lot. It means that you got paid for what you done. You just didn’t walk up there and say, “Huh, yeah, me.” I got a letter with that medal, I don’t know where it at now, once you read it tell you, “You are rated among the best.” Well, they took the gate down, they opened the gate in [19]42, and we proved that you





could be a Marine. You proved that you could equal up and stand shoulder to anybody. That’s where that medal come from. But, you got to be better than good to accomplish anything that you just start into. It’s easy now. But it wasn’t easy then.

	O:	You mentioned President Obama earlier, Mr. Sneed. Can you tell me what it meant to you when President Obama was elected President of the United States?

	S:	Let me see now, I know, but I had a stroke, and it kinda confused my… but it’ll be eight years back, and this is [20]16. So about 1980? [19]77 something now?

	U:	2008.



	S:	Huh?



	U:	2008.



	O:	You had it right. You said eight years ago, so yeah that was 2008. S:	[Laughter]. I can’t think now like I used to.

	O:	You seem clear to me, Mr. Sneed. S:	What’s that?

	O:	You seem very clear in mind to me.



	S:	Well, I tell you what: when you getting down to sixty years old then you tell somebody something too.

	O:	[Laughter] Well, Mr. Sneed, I want to thank you for your time. And was there any other thought, like closing thoughts? If you could talk to young people like what would you tell them, if you could talk to a group of students about your experiences?





	S:	Come again?



	O:	If you could talk to a group of young people about what you went through, and what they can do now, what would you tell them?

	S:	I would tell them, every able-bodied man or woman between the age of eighteen and twenty-two, see can you get two years of military training. And then, you’ll change your mind, it makes a different person out of you. Now, the Marine Corps brought something out of me I didn’t even know was in me. And then it’s better to have it and don’t need it than need it and ain’t got it. Now if you give ‘em all two years training, they drafted us, now they paying you to come! The rate they going they gonna be paying to raise babies.

	U1:	[Laughter]



	S:	Now just keep on thinking. Your older generation, listen, but the question about the younger folks now, the woman trying to raise the husband, and the husband trying to stay out in the street, and the children raising both of them. Well I’m glad I ain’t got no children.

	U2:	[Laughter]



	O:	Well, Mr. Sneed, thank you for your time, sir, it’s such an honor to speak with you. Yes. [An applause from the unknown speakers]

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:  Brenda W. Stroud, February 1, 2017 Audit-edited by: Jennifer Romero, November 1, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 27, 2019