AAHP 149; Gainey; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 149 Daniel Gainey

African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Michael Brandon on November 17, 2010 1 hour, 22 minutes | 40 pages



Abstract: Daniel Gainey grew up in Monteocha, Florida, and went to Alachua County Training School and A.L. Mebane High School. He describes his family history, and describes the family farm where he grew up. He shares some of what it was like to live under Jim Crow segregation, and how he learned to navigate it growing up. Mebane High opened toward the end of his high school career, and he was a member of the first graduating class there. He was a football player for the Mebane Hornets. Dr. Gainey recalls some of the teachers who most inspired him at Mebane, and his service in the US Army. He then describes starting in ministry after leaving the Service. He also describes his work history, including union membership and some union organizing work. Dr. Gainey also offers his thoughts on the election of Barack Obama and the current state of society today.





[Keywords: African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Alachua County Training School; A.L. Mebane High School; US Military Veterans]











































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 149

Interviewee: Daniel Gainey Interviewer: Michael Brandon Date: November 17, 2010



	B:	This is Michael Brandon with Mr. Elder Gainey on November 17, 2010, at the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. So Mr. Gainey, when and where were you born?

	G:	I was born here in Alachua County, in a rural area in the Gainesville area called Monteocha. I was born in that area and at that time they had a little rural area school called Jerusalem Elementary School. It ran from five to—excuse me, from first to five, and then from that point from six on, and right up to Alachua County Training School, referred to as A.C.T. and that’s what the initials are, Alachua County Training School.

	B:	And can you tell me a little bit about your parents or grandparents?



	G:	Yes, I don’t know very much about my grandparents, the father, my father’s father, but my grandmother I do know. My Dad was a small-time farmer. And Mama was a housewife, which of course that mean in the field as well. [Laughter] But they reared five children on a small farm about thirty-five acres. And they was hard workers. Dad didn’t have much of an education, but he managed to get through life—successfully rearing five children, and all of us completed high school.

	B:	What kind of crops did they grow on the farm?



	G:	Well they’re basically vegetables. That included beans, squash, tomatoes—a small group of tomatoes. Corn was one of the big things, and the thing that really got them through was tobacco.

	B:	And so your parents grew up on this farm?





	G:	Yes.



	B:	And you did as well? G:	Yes.

	B:	And the farm was maintained throughout most of your youth? G:	Yes. In fact the children was the hired help. [Laughter]

	B:	[Laughter] So when you were going to school, did you split time between the farm and school?

	G:	Absolutely, but the way that I worked that out—I got up early mornings and did so many chores, to keep from missing a day from school. And upon returning I spent the rest of the evening in the field ‘til dark to make sure that my homework as well as the fieldwork was maintained.

	B:	So were there other families with farms in the community?



	G:	Yes, predominantly the whole entire area, the Monteocha area, it was farm, and the majority of the land in that area was owned by Blacks. There was probably about four White families—two on the north end, one sort of central, and the other one’s on the entire north end. And all in between was Black-owned.

B:  So you had a lot of playmates then I’d imagine. What the neighboring farms? G:  Well, they was available to do the play, but playing wasn’t a thing. [Laughter] G:  It was work.

	B:	There was just no time to? G:	Absolutely, absolutely.

	B:	So did you do anything for fun with the kids that were around?





	G:	Yes. On Saturday evenings, pretty much if you get your work done, you may have an hour, an hour and a half, no more than two of leisure. And you made very good use of those times. Yes.

	B:	What kinds of things did you do?



	G:	Well actually, organized sports wasn’t as good in the area. But things like horseshoes, hide-n’-go see, and other ring plays was basically all we had. And that’s just throwing as a boy often do try to hit a target.

	B:	So would you go into town? Or what was the closest town?



	G:	The closest town was actually Gainesville, and that was—at that time the city limit was probably fifteen miles away. Which of course it’s closer now, because it had spreaded further that way. And it was pretty much dirt roads and it took you anywhere from forty-five minutes to an hour just to get into town. Based on the weather conditions, sometime it rained it even longer.

	B:	How often did you come into Gainesville?



	G:	Not very often. Only on occasions. Then when I got up, maybe say in high school, they had to cut a little slack, and I was able to maneuver a little more frequently on that point.

	B:	So on what occasions would you come into town? Would there be a specific thing that you had to get? Or—

	G:	Yes, if I wanted some new clothing, I picked out what I wanted, and maybe sometime leisure, I would see some old friends that we knew that meet in—what you call the “Bird Eye lot”, that was on Union Street in town, in Gainesville, here. So we met there, and we kind of rallied to decide how much more time we had





and where we would spend that time. So, we did come to town for leisure on certain occasions.

	B:	So Gainesville was segregated at that point, right?



	G:	Pretty much. There were only a few places that you could go, and then you had to do that with precaution. There was a five and ten cent store that had a little concession stand and they would allow, at my age, they would allow us to go there and purchase, but you couldn’t sit. If you sat, you had to act like you was getting up. [Laughter]

	B:	So I’d imagine that was a lot different from the farming community you were from?

	G:	Very much, very much. Very much. As a matter of fact the total area—if you was known, and pretty much everybody knew who was who; knew whose child they were. So sometime because of that they let you slide through a few things that just anybody couldn’t do, because of you was Prince—my father’s name was Prince Gainey—because he was a Prince son, they cut him a little slack. And that went for other known and respectful folks of the area as well.

	B:	How did you learn the racial boundaries? Is it something that you learned from experience? Did your parents tell you?

	G:	To a degree. Limit on education they did the best they could. So school of hard knocks in the way of speaking. You grew and then when you was exposed to high school, then you got the necessary things that sort of guided you and prepared you for the further life.

	B:	Did you ever test those boundaries when you were a kid?





	G:	Not really. But I would say children are curious; and once you’re moving from one point to the other or doing one thing or the other, you always question. Sometime you got a straight answer, and sometime you didn’t. So the time when you didn’t, it always stuck in your mind, and when you got a chance to ask someone who could share or give you more knowledge then you asked those questions.

	B:	Are there any particular experiences in Gainesville that you remember?



	G:	Yes, but pacifically I remember having stood in the Bird Eye Lot, and there was a little small car, then it may have been considered what you call a Model A, a Model T, and it had one of those little air horns on the side of the door. So it wasn’t nothing for us to do but just blow it. And the owner came out and he got at us and we ran. So I never will forget that.

	B:	Can you tell me a little bit more about the Bird Eye Lot, it sounds like you spent a lot of time there?

	G:	Well actually, it kind of a rallying place. It was really, it wasn’t an altogether fee store, but it was more or less a combination of everything that you needed. So you could park in the lot, free of paying. And the owner of the lot, he knew just about all his customers. So we could park there all day and go to other stores. Then we rallied back to Bird Eye parking lot. And that’s where basically the most of the people out of the country hanged out until they got ready to drive back home.

	B:	So it seems like you spent more time in Gainesville when you were in high school. And you would go there with your friends.





	G:	Yes. Yes, but not necessarily in the Bird Eye Lot because when I got to high school, you know you’re growing up, you want to explore different things so the Bird Eye Lot you kind of dodged because you knew just about who was going to be there.

	B:	So what kinds of things did you do at that point when you were a little bit older?



	G:	Naturally, being older and now I’m engaged in sports; so we more or less directed our attention to someone who could kind of give us some pointers on how to be the best you could be. That way, the Bird Eye Lot didn’t give you that. [Laughter]

	B:	What sports did you play?



	G:	Football and I was also a member of the horseshoe team of ACT. Volleyball began to grow, but not as—but I was a member of the volleyball team, which of course we lost, big time on that one. But the horseshoes, we were successful. I and probably two more other team members went for the state championships for horseshoes. My teammate, he threw two shoes, and it both was ringers. The other team, he topped it. First shot, he was out! [Laughter]

	B:	Wow! Who did you play in the state championships?



	G:	I don’t remember who the state contestant was at the time, I’m not so sure. So I won’t take an educated guess. Seemed to be lingering on my mind, it was somewhere down south where the team was. But both guys was good so—First shot we was out.

	B:	Was football as big back then as it is—





	G:	Yes, yes. That was really the main sports. Fortunately because of the coach, saw that another friend of ours, which was sent from the same area, was pretty good in doing what we did. And he allowed us to really start our high school football season at the end of the seventh grade, which was should have been ninth, but fully at the eighth. And we become pretty good. And we finished. And we were the first class to have graduated from the new school. The new school was completed in 1956, and the first class of 1957, and I was a member of that class and we named the football team the A.L. Mebane Hornets, so we stung.

	B:	What position did you play?



	G:	Quarterback—No excuse me, halfback and fullback. Small butt, pretty good. [Laughter]

	B:	You were quick then if you’re a small—



	G:	Yes, yes. That’s what they counted on, the quickness. And I wasn’t the fastest runner but—You couldn’t catch me, you know. Just try to. [Laughter]

	B:	Yeah! Who was your rival? What were your big games?



G:  The main two teams that we never will forget, Lincoln High School and Lake City. Those are the two teams that we always had trouble. I don’t know if we ever won when we played Lincoln. Lincoln always beat us.

B:   And how close was Lincoln?



	G:	From Alachua to Gainesville, it was about thirteen miles. Well, now it probably thirteen miles considering the city limit now. It probably said fifteen at the most, because the distance from here to there and from here to home is basically about the same.





B:  So would the whole community get excited about these games and cheer you guys on?

G:  Somewhat. Only those that was sport-inclined, athletically inclined. They were the ones behind you pushing you saying “go”. I don’t remember but one game that my father attend. So, based on who the persons were then, yes.

B:   How did your parents feel about you playing so much sports?



	G:	They did not so much as approve on the football because they having heard that you get broken up, banged up, beat up. So, every time we had a game they was a little fearful, but finally, they got over it. The coaches came out, visit the family and told us what are the pros and cons. And there was a few times when I twist an ankle. They came out and bandaged me up, I hopped around a little more, back at it again.

	B:	Seems like your coach had a pretty big influence on them.



	G:	Yes, yes. He did, because his children were very much under control. Wherever you went, the older person become your parent. As I was saying, it takes a village to raise a child. Believe you me, that what’s happens. All the older folk, regardless of whether you knew them or not, they could just say, “Don’t do that, you mine.” Somewhat different from today.

	B:	Did you have problems getting resources for you guys like pads, balls, all of the kinds of things you would need for the football team?

	G:	I wouldn’t say a real problem, but everything that we received was pretty much hand-me-downs. The White groups use it until the point that they figure they





need to update and renew. So those that they discarded usually come to us that; that includes book and everything, balls and everything else.

	B:	As a kid were you aware that you were getting things that were—



	G:	Yes, yes. There had been a few times that we received books, the teacher make an assignment on a certain page—it was not so much me—but there as a few other classmate, when he went to that page it was not in the book. So they was very much aware.

	B:	Oh wow. So did you guys have lab equipment or anything like that?



	G:	Very minimum. In fact we had only one science teacher, and they had one of the classroom partially converted where you could do a few testing, and that was on a very minimum scale. But we did have some exposure, but nothing in comparison to today.

	B:	So how did your teachers try to combat the unequal resources? Were there any particular strategies they took?

	G:	Well the mindset was pretty much adjusted to the time period. So you didn’t see dissatisfaction or frustration on their faces. They knew where they were, they knew what they was getting, they knew they was training so—Things flowed good in a way of speaking. Seeing that all the schools that were in the Black area was predominantly Black. Those that was in the White area, predominantly White. So it was just the culture of the day.

	B:	What was your favorite subject in school? G:	Math.

	B:	You always liked math?





	G:	Yes, yes. Math and science, wherever they correlated, but math is number one and science was two. Those two subjects, I always craved for.

	B:	Do you remember any particular teachers that you had in those subjects that you liked?

	G:	Yes, Mr. Clarence Waldon, as far as the science is concerned. And mathematics, it was about two teachers. He did both, really. And biology which is portion of science, but he had leaned heavily towards that. But Mr. Richard Thomas, which taught here at the university, he was really the number one math teacher. We had him for our homeroom teacher a number of times, and it gave us a slight advantage because sometimes we was waiting for class to start, the bell would ring and we always asked him questions that we thought was gonna be put into us when actual class time started. That really was a trip for us all. We enjoyed that.

	B:	So what else did you like about them? Did they push you to remain interested in the sciences? Or—

	G:	Yes, they took a personal interest in all the students, it’s not necessarily one or two, but when they found someone that was aggressive and seemed to have a bright future they did encourage them, you know, give it your best. That they did to all, but like I said there were a few students that were very aggressive and we were fortunate to have one of our students excel, and he became the county judge of Duval County, but he’s just passed away now. Others, you know, they became principals and some registered nurses. I myself came to be a minister. We had a pretty successful class.





	B:	So your teachers really pushed you to do—



	G:	One in particular: Mr. Samuel J. McCanns which was our agriculture teacher. He just took me under his wing as it was his son. In fact the boys in the class often tease me and him that I was his son. He in particular I remember quite well.

	B:	So they really didn’t seem to take the social landscape into consideration; they pushed you guys to be whatever you wanted to be in the world, huh?

	G:	Well they did because the most of our teachers was flexible. When it come down to sports, when it come down to book learning, when you’re in the classroom for book, that’s books, when you’re out on the field playing, it’s sports. That’s the type of attitude most of them had. We enjoyed being there to be trained by them. And I tell you, wouldn’t trade it again for a lifetime.

	B:	So now that I know that you ended up in the ministry, I guess religion was important to your family growing up?

	G:	Absolutely, the whole community in which I was reared was very biblically oriented. Limit explanation on certain things but they come together, one person needed help, they all chipped in. If one person was a little slack, he—they didn’t have to ask. The other ones just observe, and they was right there to assist. So, that’s the kind of environment I was reared in. Religion was a big thing.

	B:	How close was your church to your house?



	G:	At first, it was approximately three miles. But later on they transferred the church closer to the main road, and then it become less than a mile. But in the transitioning period, I was reared under the Baptist organization, but after I grew





up and become, sort of on your own in a way, then I moved my membership to Pentecostal, trusting God by faith.

	B:	So was the church more of like a community center as much as a spiritual center? Were there a lot of recreational activities?

	G:	Well, all the older folks was very hard on a lot of activities when you come down to where the church was concerned. Your church, if that’s what it is, you’re okay. But anything else having outside interference, that’s a no-no. Never will forget, I was not a member of the band, but three or four of my classmates were and we—well I say we, I was a part of that group that had gone on to Alachua County Training School and as a result, some of the older folk who was pushing education and trying to get the community involved to know what education was about and what the children was being exposed to. And the band was scheduled to come out to Old Jerusalem and do a concert. We had a pretty rough time convincing those students that this was not a jamboree. So once they came and they did the playing, they was totally surprised, because they expected, you know, something totally different. But it was the skillness of these band members to play and give meaning of the sound to them. And they even welcomed them back. At first they had a hard time getting there, those were the kinds of things we faced.

	B:	But you guys would come together through the church and help people in the community if they ever needed it?





	G:	Absolutely, absolutely. In fact, folks that didn’t really participate in religious services, once something in the community be done, as far as physical help, that you could even count on those. So, it was a very good community.

	B:	Is there anything in particular you remember as far as helping people out with food, or clothing?

	G:	Yes, none of us had a lot. But if someone had less than, those who could help, they contributed freely; bet even food. So, it was a community of brotherhood, good relations. Now that held true to the people of the community. Now, if you was an outsider that come in, it’s a little different.

	B:	Talk to me about your siblings? Can you tell me a bit about them?



	G:	Yes, the wife and I, we have seven children. The oldest girl, she’s down south because I left Alachua County in 1957, the very year I finished school I went down to Hallandale Florida, right out of Miami. And I went to the service in 1961. So when I come out of the service, I went back to Hallandale. And I got married. And the wife and I have seven children. The older girl is down in the house now. And the next oldest girl she’s there also. My oldest son, he’s up here. He didn’t want to stay when I was transferred from the east coast back to the Gainesville district. And during this transitional period my name came up as a candidate to complete the work on the church out here because the former pastor passed away. So I came home also transferred to do a work. So we completed the work on the church, new ediffice out here in the Monteocha area. That’s been pretty much the story of my life. Being able to assist, help, do whatever is available.

	B:	You told me, you said you were in the service?





	G:	Yes.



	B:	What branch were you in? G:	Army.

	B:	How was that?



	G:	It was not really hard for me because I was used to getting up early in the mornings. So I was made squad leader immediately. When the sergeant saw that he didn’t have to come in and shake everybody out of the bed, I would get up; make up my bed, get the other guys up that were easily waken. Sometime we had to come through then yell for some to get up, but that was an easy chore for me. I had been very agile in body so the courses that we had to go through wasn’t a problem. I wasn’t the strongest guy in there, in the group, but I survived.

	B:	Where did you do your training at?



	G:	First, at the Living Jacksonville Induction Station. They sent us to Fort Benning, Georgia, from Fort Benning to Fort Gordon. So that was my basic training in Fort Gordon. Then when we had completed the training in Fort Gordon, then I was in the medical core. So we need advanced training so 9, 10, 11, 9, 11, 10, rather, excuse me, they sent us to Fort Samuels in Texas, St. Antonio. That’s where I did my medical training. From there I was shipped to Germany. [Laughter]

	B:	Huh, my dad actually did some training in Texas as well. And he was in Germany, also.

	G:	Okay.



	B:	Yeah, he was in the airborne, 82nd.





	G:	The fact about that particular division was on the same post, 82nd airborne division.

	B:	Around the same time actually. [You] may have ran across him. G:	You never know who you’re talking to. [Laughter]

	B:	Interesting. How was it going to other places in the south? When you were in the service, when training?

	G:	It was an experience because I had never been out of the state, around to going to Georgia. So having gone to Georgia now, and now going to Texas, Texas passing through other states on the train, getting to New Jersey and then from there by boat to [inaudible 26:39] Germany. So it was an experience for me. And the seven days ride on the water. That was really something. It was really something.

	B:	How did you feel going, especially going up into the north? Did you feel like there was a cultural shock?

	G:	No, be frank with you, you know you’re young, fearless, ready to explore just about anything that you could. So it was exciting not knowing what to expect; but as it came you took it in stride, in fact a lot of fun.

	B:	What about Texas and Georgia? Did they remind you a lot of Florida?



	G:	No. Now, Georgia was close because Florida and Georgia is not a vast difference apart. So the weather was pretty much close to each other maybe within three to four degrees difference in degrees in temperature. But just the place by name, I’m in Georgia. So, you know that’s about the biggest thing. Folks there that you did get a chance to meet but you know, you had strict rules. You





couldn’t go off the post without permission. If your parents came; they signed you out. But that didn’t happen to me because my parents didn’t travel very much anyway.

	B:	So I’d imagine in your unit you had people from across the country.



	G:	Yes. Yes, there was any number of states that people were there in the training; so I got to meet quite a few people. But, you know, the surface, some of the names I couldn’t even tell you who some of them were.

	B:	With people from so many different places, did tension flare up from time to time? G:	Well we had been so adjusted to segregation, and now we in the same barrack,

same mess hall, same everything. Because in the [19]60s, things began to change. It’s where the segregation was, you know, integration kicked in.

Segregation was out. Everybody had to get used to the idea. There was some flares up, but not to any degree because they knew it was a mandate. And feds was behind any misappropriation of power. So, we made the transition as easily as possible. But you know, when you into those things you can always meet something that you don’t want. But you survived.

	B:	So as far as your superior officers, they seemed to handle integration well or—?



	G:	To an extent, because of being under order, they didn’t have too much of a choice. But any person who somewhat knowledgeable of facial expressions, you can see the dislike and the likes registered on their face even though in total actuality they was following the guidelines. Close call.

	B:	How did you feel about integration?





	G:	I didn’t have much of a problem because it has been my way life, of getting along with people from childhood. So I was sort of flexible. I could deal with whatever come my way providing, you know, I wanted to. So I didn’t have much of a problem, I made a lot of new White friends, and I made a lot of new Black friends. And I consider myself blessed because I navigated between what was, or what could have been, and what was not. So, that went pretty good. But everyone didn’t do that. I just considered myself fortunate, blessed.

	B:	Did some of the people in your unit have problems with integration on either side?

	G:	Yes. Never would have known if the mouth didn’t fly open. And when the mouth flew open it created more of a problem, rather than solving anything. Never will forget an incident where one gentleman just could not keep his mouth closed because one of the high ups had to come down to address the situation. But he wasn’t in the unit very long.

	B:	What did he say?



	G:	Well basically he just more or less expressed his dislikes. And being expressive to the degree in which he did, it did not set too well with some of the others.

Rather than keep him there to generate or cause other problems, they finally shipped him out of the unit. And making derogatory statements about folk, that never works too well. You can say anything you want, but if you don’t know how to say, it cause lot of good feelings to go down the drain.

	B:	It’s almost like the golden rule. G:	Yes, yes.





	B:	You can’t say something nice don’t say it. G:	Don’t say nothing at all.

	B:	[Laughter] How was Germany?



	G:	Now that was an experience. Being in a different country where the language is not the same. And it was very intriguing for me because I’m always curious of what’s going on around me. So I was able to pick up on a little German, and could hold a conversation with the people downtown whenever we were allowed to go for just a few minutes. It come to be sort of easy, in a way of speaking. And that is an experience I never will forget. So a group of us went downtown and we stopped at a restaurant. The guys that we went with, they had gone there before. And they knew I was green and no knowledge of mustard, hot mustard that is.

And they ordered Wheat incense and Saffron. Say you want mustard, yes! I bit into that thing, man I cried for about fifteen minutes. That mustard is so hot. And they knew that, because they had been tricked. And I bit into that, and that’s all the fun that they wanted. So they come back on the post and they was talking, “Old Gainey right there done bit into some mustard”. [Laughter] That was some hot mustard, never will forget that experience.

	B:	What did you think about Vietnam? So I guess you—



	G:	I didn’t go to Vietnam. In fact about the only flare up that came close to us being shipped forward was the Cuban Crisis. But other than that I never did go to Vietnam, and there wasn’t really into any active fighting. And even if I had been, I wouldn’t probably be directly on the front line because I was in the medical core.





Where medic is needed however, you know. That’s where you had to be. So I was more or less there serving to give help, to help others.

	B:	Did you feel like it was always in the back of everyone’s minds? Or was it was one of those things where you signed up to be in the Army and you’ll go where they tell you?

	G:	Well you hadn’t much choice. Because when they asked the preference of each solider, I think I put high warrior. We were told completely to follow directions.

Very few get their preference when it come down, because you’re sent where you best can serve. And I never will forget the gentlemen that reared in the same community, his name Hank Gaskin. He and I was inducted in the Army at the same time, and I thought for sure that since we were together from day one— probably be together, we would have something in common. He went in a different direction. Well, that’s, that’s the way that goes.

	B:	When did you come out of the service?



	G:	I only served my tour of duty a few years. So 1963, I got an early out. B:	And you came back to Alachua County after that?

	G:	Only for about a week, and from there back down south, because I made down south, Hallandale, a home for me. So I only stayed here for a short while with Mom and Dad, and then left and went back down south.

	B:	So can you tell me a little bit about starting your ministry after the service?



	G:	Being in a religious family, it was somewhat easy for me. I was taught as a child growing up to respect, so that’s one of the key things that we respect people, that goes a long ways. And as a result so that the eldest decant of the Old Jerusalem





Baptist church, he just got to a point where he just was physically unable to do as he had done, and he saw potentials in me and he took me under his wing. And I think I may have been one of the youngest assistants, super attendants of the Sunday school, ever been recorded in Old Jerusalem.

	B:	Oh, wow.



	G:	So when he couldn’t come he felt so assured that I could carry on—which I did— and I grew to be able to handle that up until the time that I left. And those folks just actually felt so bad.

	B:	Really?



	G:	Yeah, even the pastor of Old Jerusalem. He was he was a June moderator of the National Southern Baptist Association. And I dodged him for a good while. And so one day when I thought I had dodged him, I went around, I walked right into him. [Laughter]

	G:	So he stood there momentarily, and he questioned me and he wanted to know my feelings, et cetera. But had I stayed there at the time without any doubt, I believe he would have pushed me at an early age much faster, much further. And I decided to go at the time. From that, you get to learn some things. And you get did some stair stepping and from that point on. The main thing that I had anticipate for having going down south was to work for a couple of years and save the money. I was going to further my education, but my next older sister, she was pretty brilliant in a way of speaking in those times, and she’s very book- minded. In her classes there was no need for her to stay in this class any longer,





so they promoted her to the next class, and I knew Mom and Dad were not able to afford to send her to school. So the savings that I had, I gave it to her.

	B:	Wow, that’s nice.



	G:	And she went to A&T for two years, and the third year she say, They don’t need me staying here any longer, because it’s just a waste of money. I’m not learning anything. So she opt to go to Ohio State. And that’s been the story of my life like every two weeks, I need this, I need that. So I become the father getting her through, and she finally graduated. Well there’s a story behind that, but she finally got her degree.

	B:	Oh tell me, tell me the story.



	G:	Well, the story is that she went up to eighteen hours of completing, and she met this guy and she got married and started having children. Then I look back at all of the money that I dumped then, and I said, Boy—. [Laughter] Thought it went down the drain, but believe it or not, finally she completed those eighteen hours and got her degree, which I was happy. About seven years later, but she made it. With that, my education at that point was kind of like here a little, there a little. I’m pursuing something now so hopefully I’ll have that completed shortly. But I was ordained in 1968 as one of the Elders of the Church of God by Faith. And all of my studying been on my own, few certificates, but not anything the one that I really wanted to credit. So I promised myself somewhere down life, before life end, I hope to accomplish that.

	B:	So you’re studying theology now?





	G:	Well yes, but I don’t want to say too much on that just yet because not too many people know where I am there.

	B:	Oh, okay.



	G:	[Laughter]



	B:	No, that’s quite all right. You said you were working and then giving the money to your sister.

	G:	Yes.



	B:	Where were you working?



	G:	I started out with a towel company, first, because I was anxious to get started in some kind of employment. This towel company’s name was Hollywood Towel and Terrasa. So I started out there as just a helper. I worked myself up ‘til I become part of the mechanic shop, because the company was big; it had its own equipment so I was put in the mechanic shop where I could learn how to work on the various machines, the big machines that grind the floor of the terrasa. I was able to deal with that, I gained quite a bit. And being raised on the country you learn how to do certain things because parents didn’t always have money to carry for someone else to do it. So you learn how to do it. So it come almost naturally. And with that in mind, or with that under my belt more or less, I proceeded on and then I left there and I went to Hollywood Sun Teller, which was a paper place, and I become one of the maintenance persons at that. And then having left the paper company, advanced up a little higher and work at—this was a truck and body building shop, so all of this is mechanical. And we installed hydraulics. The big trucks that you see, the dump trucks that was the type of





work we were in there. And things was really unfolding for me everywhere I’ve gone. Those who were getting twenty-five cent and fifty cent less than me, is simply because the employer saw potentials, and when he tell me to do whatever, he can count on it to be done. And I was very conscientious worker, still am. And whatever needed to be done, I just didn’t, you know, do enough just to get by. I put forth good effort to make sure that the job is done correctly. And as a result of that, I always come in with twenty-five to fifty cent more than the regular schedule. And after having been ordained in the Church of God by Faith, I was assigned first pastorship. I was assigned with them in Miami, little place you call Crown Sub, but that’s still Miami. And that was in 1965. And I kept working, and I become the assistant to the Superintendent of the East Coast district. And I served there up until 2004, is when I transferred back here.

	B:	So when you’re first getting started in the ministry, the Civil Rights Movement is starting to hit its climax.

	G:	Yes, yes, and that we can be appreciative of because there’s been so many stories from various people told what problems they’ve had. And you better not go this route because of this and that, Jim Crow law and all that kinda stuff. But I never had any problem out of anybody. Pull up to a gas station, get your fuel, go on. And I drove halfway decent cars once I was able to get one. And I never will forget I had a 1955 Cadillac Fleetwood, White. Nice car. And they said, Man you better not drive that car through Georgia. “Why not?” I went to Georgia and what they said was one of the most critical parts to go through —I drove all the way to Carolina, nobody refused me service. I always got gas. People spoke, good





morning, good evening. I just didn’t have any problems. But there was some places that they said, if you can’t read, run anyhow. But anyhow, we won’t go there. [Laughter]

	B:	Well, do you want to go there? I mean—



	G:	It’s a kind of an old saying. I think most people who would identify with that would know precisely what it is. They say there’s a certain part of Georgia if you go through there, if you couldn’t read and your face was Black, run. You can’t read, run anyhow. [Laughter]

	B:	Oh, wow. Did you use your ministry in terms of trying to advance civil rights objectives at that point?

	G:	Only on a small scale. When conventions come into the area, which I did not get totally involved, but when it come down to support, certain individuals who were out front, that I did in ten—only a few in the last circular job that I had, it was with the city of Hallandale, and I still was in mechanics at the time. Also, being a part of Hallandale, it was unionized, and I was elected as Secretary of the Treasury of Local 2009, and that give me more exposure to the political arena. And without any doubt, I knew that my interest as me in a minister was the right place. [Laughter] Politics, that’s not my calling. Saw a lot that told me I had the right choice of staying where I am. But we were privileged to go to various meetings, some even out of state, but I opt not to go to High Warrior, I opt not to go to Texas, I opt not to go to Washington, D.C. for the simple reason, I wanted the president and whoever else that could go to be more of an asset to the Local





2009 because my interest was not there. I knew I would miss the majority of the interesting points because politicking—that wasn’t me.

	B:	Can you tell me a little more about the union? G:	Well the union is AFSCME, that’s big.

	B:	Yeah.



	G:	With AFSCME being behind you, you follow the guidelines, but again, politicking and politics, that’s the name of the game. It’s a science, and if you were interested in that type of life, you can advance. And I’m sure that I probably wouldn’t go to the next level there, because it was not in my interest. But again, when the City of Hallandale became unionized, whatever we negotiate, everybody benefits. So you pay a certain amount of dues—whatever your pay schedule were, whether it’s biweekly or monthly, and you be a member as long as you keep your dues up. So whatever benefits the union negotiates, everybody received it because you couldn’t discriminate. Me being elected as Secretary of the Treasury, it necessitate good record keeping, availability, punctuality, and all of those things that I consider myself up on the vantage part of it, as far as my duties required me to do, and we enjoyed the experiences. Made a number of meetings to Orlando. Where else did I go? Not so sure I went to Daytona ones that were there if they scheduled one. I think it was Daytona, but with the exposure to it, we had good success. And we were privileged to have Alster Hayson to come down to be our guest speaker. That’s where I really knew that this thing could, you know, go much further than where my mind was at that moment. Mr. Hayson was a very good speaker, probably still is. And I never will





forget the scenario he put forth. He said, We as a people, we got to look at things and look at them for what they worth at face value. He said, “What would you rather? We fighting among us about our young people on drugs.” He said, “Well let me put it to you this way, what would you rather? You make minimum wage, least you can carry home at the end of the week what, four hundred dollars, maybe two-fifty with tax and anything deducted? Cause here’s a guy now, he go out on the street in five minutes, he got five hundred. As far as money, which would you rather?” Guys stood there with their mouths open. You know, he wasn’t promoting that, he wasn’t condoning that, but he was only putting forth that choices is what we make. And sometime the choices we make—not sometime, all the time, the choice we make, that’s the one we live with. But the scenario was, is he was saying, addressing the group, give it your best, make the right choice, proceed on, and that is something that I remember him by quite well.

	B:	So in the local you were a part of, what were the main industries that people were working in?

	G:	Well the city had it own maintenance crew, own electricians, own mechanics, own fieldworkers, own field managements, and naturally all the scrubbery and road works comes under that head. So it had it own everything. Very seldom it had to invite others in to anything because they had qualifying people. It’s also the water plant. They had their own people to run the water plant. And that’s crucial.





	B:	Yeah, was the city officials, were they hostile to the union or had there been unions all along in that area?

	G:	Well from the time I was employed with the City of Hallandale, there was a union there, but having heard some of the experiences, prior to my being hired, didn’t sound as though they were too kosher. But they survived under the terms, and the gentlemen that were head of the personnel apartment—see it was his business to negotiate for the city. And our teamster, our leader of the union, negotiates for the union. So there was clashes between that group of people at all times. And there were those out there that you call, union breakers.

	B:	Yeah.



	G:	To, you know, get the union out. We had some confrontment there as well. So, it’s a kind of a hard thing to give a clearer knowledge of if you haven’t been exposed to it, but you faced the issues. You got to have the character, the conduct, the attitude to deal with them because you don’t say something that you shouldn’t say.

	B:	You remember any strikes or boycotts, specifically? G:	Yeah, in fact, the one we did.

	B:	Tell me about this.



	G:	Well it’s just a matter if the union and whoever you’re negotiating with can’t come to an agreement, therefore you tell the union, Let’s go on a strike. Whatever your demands are, if the company don’t desire to meet a compromise, whatever you asked him for, and head of the union tell you, We gonna strike. I bent this to a heart, cause the workers is on strike.





	B:	Yeah, especially if it’s a city. The city needs its workers.



	G:	And believe it or not, all of the members of the union was not in favor of a strike, so that even make it more difficult. Cause you want everybody together. Some think you should, some think you shouldn’t. And if from one person, or maybe just a couple of three main people, see I can’t jeopardize my position because of y’all, I’m going to work. And you don’t have the total cooperation of the body. And it puts too many people at risk because fights have been known to break out.

With us fortunately, you know, just verbal fighting. It wasn’t any physical fighting as far as I know. And yet there were some incidents as a result of what we were doing. At some, threw a few fists, but it was not directly having to do with us. It was something on the other side of that.

	B:	So I’d imagine the union, like the army, was bringing people together as far as race is concerned that ordinarily hadn’t been spending too much time together. Were there any tensions or conflicts?

	G:	Well it didn’t serve as a liaison between racism more or less, it was just concern for it membership. Whether you White, Black or whatever. It supported it membership. But again, by integration being fresh, you lived with some points, some level of resentment, cause if a Black face get a position that had been previously occupied by someone else, then you got to deal with that. You got to have the mindset, the attitude to be patient enough to wait until the storm blow over. But you can’t allow it to interfere with your operation, with your productivity. So, it takes special people in those areas.

	B:	You were in a leadership position, so how did you feel about treatment—





	G:	Yeah, that’s what I was saying that I was able to get along just about with everybody. I spoke when I had to speak, but I wasn’t so outspoken. I took first of all people’s feelings into consideration. What if I was in that position? How would I like to be done? And most of the people that I dealt with, I’m not saying that everybody liked me, but I got along with the most of them. Being in that type of leadership they always consulted with me, most cases, what you think about it? I wouldn’t be personal, or try not to take sides, I just tell for face value, What if you was in that position, what would you want them to do towards you? Sometimes I was able to, you know, kind of minimize the stress and the strain, and there times that it didn’t do very much good at all.

	B:	So when did you meet your wife along the way here?



G:  We got married in 1969, in fact, I was almost thirty years old when I got married because of the obligations I had and marriage wasn’t a key thing on my mind at the time. But when I did get married, told her, ‘til death us do part. [Laughter]

B:   So when did you meet your wife? Had you known her for quite some time or—



	G:	Now that’s another story by itself. I remember having driven the place in Miami called Opa-Locka, that’s just a subdivision of Miami, but the name has changed now to Miami Gardens. If you ever in Opa-Locka in Miami Gardens that’s the same place.

	B:	Okay.



	G:	And he was of the church there at Opa-Locka or Miami Gardens, and he needed to come to Lake Wales. He knew the family in which my wife was the baby girl. And I saw her as a small girl playing in the yard; never dawned on me anymore.





Then at a meeting there in Ocala, she’d grown up to be a teenager then, and we only talked for a few minutes. And in that family, which is big, there’s about twelve children.

	B:	Wow.



	G:	And she graduated from high school and in turn she went to New York because some of her brothers was there at the time, to stay with her brother. And I proposed on the phone—. [Laughter] She was nowhere in arm’ reach. And when she transferred from New York to Miami to live with one of the brothers that had moved from New York to Miami. And I went over to see her a few times. And then in the meanwhile we made arrangements to get married. And she left Miami and went back to her home which is Lake Wales, Florida, and I made maybe a couple of trips over to respect the family, told them what I wanted to do. That was the hardest thing in my life. [Laughter] Telling them I wanted their daughter. But anyway I did, and we got married in 1969, she become part of the ministry, because she’s married to a minister, I was preaching before I met her. And so that’s how that went. From there on, it’s been she and I and the children.

	B:	So thinking about how your children grew up and you raised them, how do you think it was different from how you grew up and how you were raised?

G:  Simply because I understood very diligently that had Mama and Daddy had more to give, they would have. And I tried to provide for my children as best as I could. The first one that was ushered off to college was the second daughter. She went up to Tallahassee, computer science. Not that she owed anybody anything, but I was thinking in terms if she completed her courses successfully and come out





and get a job, consider her the next person in line and be a help. Which of course that would work if the mindset was there, but that didn’t exactly go the way that I had hope it would have. And the next in line was a son, which is the one who’s up here. He started at the junior college—then it was junior college, but now it’s changed). He continued with as much that he could do for himself and whatever I could afford. So from here and there and here and there and then he got interested into Police Academy. So he completed all those course, and he’s in law enforcement now. But he pretty much pushed himself, and I tried to help as much as possible. While you know, making sure he had dependable transportation, few money in his pocket, etcetera. So he’s done that for a number of years. He started out down south, and when he found out that I was transferred back home he didn’t want to stay so he came up here and having seen his cousins, Emery Gainey. Emery ran for Sheriff of Alachua County, he didn’t win, Darnell beat him out. And the next, Emery’s next brother, Victor, he’s in the Marion County area. I mean he saw all of the brass, you know, that intrigued him, and that just motivated him, he couldn’t do nothing but become part of law enforcement. He’s still in some phase of it now. And that was the third child. The fourth child, which was another girl, she completed high school pretty much with honors and here again, where junior college kicked in for her as well. And she finally moved up here with us. And she pretty much supported herself through school. So she became a graduate of Leo University. And now she has acquired her master’s, and the next one was a son. This probably his fourth year of teaching in, I think it’s Orange County, down in the Orlando area. And the next





one, which is a son, he’s still down south, but his interest is in mortuary science. So every time he get a chance to assist at the local funeral homes there, he’s right on target. And from what I saw, and the information that I’m receiving from those who he assists, is very impressed with the work he does to one body, the guy was completely mutilated, and they was so impressed how well he brought him back to his natural look. The only thing he need to do now is complete his schooling, and I think hopefully I’ll stay behind him that he go ahead and do that. He started at Miami Dade Junior College at the time, but he never finished what he needed to do. We behind him now to complete that.

	B:	Seems like he already has a network of people, once he can get finished—



	G:	[Laughter] If we can continue to push, and I think from the other members of the family, they see how aggressive they are, they’ll continue to move forward because time is not waiting on none of us. And the baby girl, that’s the one I tell her she married the gentleman that’s in the army. She’s still pursuing, and she may be coming up with a book, I haven’t seen it, I haven’t seen any of the contents, but she’s supposed to be, well flying down or driving down to Atlanta— we usually have our own national meeting in Atlanta, Georgia, each year. So she hope to be there, if everything go well, they’ll probably be space given for her to do some book signing, autographing, if everything go well. Hopefully it does.

	So—that’s just about the story, the deal with us. B:	So what did you think about Obama’s election?

	G:	That is a thing that I had hoped it would happen. And I really pull for it. Not because of his skin color, but basically his platform gave us change. And I





thought from what I observed and understood, that a change was needed. And that’s one of the things that totally sold me out because his platform was changed. And from my observation, he definitely, with the people that’s already in place, couldn’t do any worse than those there. So, I supported the idea.

	B:	Were you surprised that America would elect a Black president, or?



	G:	Not really surprised. Fact about it, if he had not won, I think I would have been more surprised if he had not won, rather than his winning. Because my mindset and my observation of things, it just point towards the fact that change was needed. Not the fact that he can do any more than those who he worked with, worked to accomplish his goal. But that just that platform would change, that’s what sort of was deeply engrained that he would win. Naturally, after having won, he’s going to have to do a lot more. Because within eighteen months that he been in office versus the eight years prior. You know how we are, we expect eighteen months to come up with eight years, and it won’t work. We behind him, my prayers are out for him.

	B:	So if somebody came up to you after football practice in 1957 and said that you would see a Black president, would you have believed it?

	G:	I would have skepticism of that. But by my mind being a little flexible to stretch, I would have considered it, but a time frame of when, I probably would have no idea at the time. And even if that would dropped on me now, I probably still would have questioned, but again I would have considered it very deeply. As things begin to change, and when we saw a number of things falling in place, and who could be a public speaker and orator than Dr. King. And his platform was





nonviolence. It’ll take special people, special character to go through with some of the things that we saw by way of television, some of the things we heard by word of mouth that he went through. It’s remarkable.

	B:	Absolutely. A lot of what I study, I study Civil Rights Movement. G:	Ah, okay. Okay.

B:  It’s fascinating. That kind of courage, that’s rare. So thinking about, you’ve told me everything about your life—. [Laughter] I mean it’s been fascinating, do you think that America’s progressed over the course of your life?

	G:	Absolutely. Absolutely. You’d be sort of behind the eight ball if you say it has not, because the generations then, the generation behind those, and the generation now they hadn’t much choice. When something moving forward in a progressive state, you have to be real out of sync to see it regress. You always for pushing forward for the betterment, I’m not saying things are perfect, even now, because we reached a plateau where we’re in the guiding principles of our nation, they are being attacked. You rewrite those things, which is some of the primary cause to have landed us where we are, and you want to rewrite them? What do you have in mind? Is it going to be the better? Is it going to be the worst? And I can’t foresee rewriting some of the principles that have safely guided us to where we are, in which of course I’m in favor of new ideas, but if the idea is not in sync with moving forward, where we going?

	B:	Do you think your faith helps you be optimistic?



	G:	Absolutely. And here’s another area of concern, religion is a duty versus a belief. There’s more of a duty, so when it become in a reverse order for his application





then you know the horse going backwards instead of forward. We don’t pressure people to believe what the way I believe, but we do encourage them to look at things and make right choices just as far as your ability allow you. And today we have so many beliefs here in America, and you can’t entertain them all, you either for or you against. And here you have to be real careful, because the redistricting of Florida, is that a good step? Or is it some technicalities or technique in which politicians can use to accomplish certain goals and demote other things that should be, so I’m not so sure. And that was of the things that education came very necessary in this last election. I’m not so sure we did a real good job on that, because of the old figures which you thought would have been reelected, they were not.

	B:	What social issues does your ministry actually tackle in the community?



	G:	Well we try to deal with our youth in particularly, because crime is at an all-time high, and not steering ourselves to be partial if we can help it. But the young Black male, they’re targeted, they need to be educated to the highest level we possibly can get them to see that they hold their future in their own hand, and to be negligent in any way, in any form. The odds sort of against you from the start. And if you choose to go the way that the system probably kind of steering you in a way of speaking, where you going to end up? Being in jail ain’t the place for you if you’re going to be aggressive. You’re going to progress, you need to have your freedom. You need to have a voice; you need to have people you to support your ideals, be behind you with whatever decisions you make, long as headed in the right direction. Those are the areas that presently we’re involved in.





	B:	Do you feel like you’re making progress with some of these youths? G:	Only a few.

	B:	[Sighs]



	G:	Only a few.



	B:	Yeah.



	G:	Because by the time you get one in sort of, something else hits us. And the courts is not as bad as we think they are. And I really just don’t have time to just be there consistently to know what some of the decisions are, but becoming so infiltrated with ideals and people becoming so dissatisfied with life itself, the courts cannot handle all of these things effectively and efficiently. Because you have one judge to so many thousands of people, and if he’s going to flew through with this volume of people, you can’t spend too much time with no one individual. So whatever that seem to be the appropriate thing, from his judgment, that’s what he reads off. That’s the sentence. Is it just? I can’t say it is. Is it unjust? I can’t say either. But at the time, that’s his decision, and those other decisions we abide by, until change set in. And with the Black face going in there, I’m not say it’s predetermined, but it just doesn’t paint a very good picture, and we certainly hope that we can change some of that.

	B:	So I remember you telling me when you grew up, everybody in the community pretty much knew who you were. And if you did something wrong, your parents would find out or they would tell you themselves that you need to—

	G:	The fact about it is strange, because telephone was not available at the time, in our community. But yet, if you misbehave—strange how the news get to your





parents before you get there. So I don’t know. Somehow or another they knew what you had done before you got home. If those persons saw you misbehave, they had every right to chastise you even, that even it did cause you to get a licking there. And if they had to go home, and sometimes they did, carried you home! And you got another one. So you was pretty well behaving in your mind when you thought about doing something that you thought was not right, so you fought that before you ever did it.

	B:	So you don’t see the same kinds of communities now, now-a-days. You think that’s a problem?

	G:	No, because the law don’t permit you to do that anymore. Even your own child, you spank your child, based on who’s observing, they try to call it child abuse. And that child has right from the law side to dial 9-1-1. And when they come, they ain’t gonna hardly ask you what the scenario is. They’re taking you to jail.

B:  Yeah, I guess if you take out the harsher aspects of the discipline and you think more about the community supervision to where there was always some kind of oversight as a kid, do you feel like that’s part of the communities that you live in now or—

	G:	Well, not to any degree, because you got to interpret the harshness, who is there to determine what harshness is? So when you face it from that, you got the mercies of somebody. And who gonna believe who? So, saying that in America, would it be better if we go back to some of that? Eh, I can’t say that to be the solution, because fights and other approaches now is not so much physical, it’s mental or psychological thing. So if you don’t prepare yourself to deal with what’s





at hand you’re ruining yourself and those who’s involved, less efficient. So change have to set in. Whatever way it takes to better us, and the people we are serving, that we need to concentrate on. Certain thing gonna change within this generation. It has a certain projection, and they going to follow that into dovetail, and then something else kick in. I often view that as I tell some of the group that I’m meeting with, abuse it one time, his heart, but these days is over. We remember them, Elvis Presley we remember, James Brown we remember, B.B. King we remember, but those days is over as far as actual performance is concerned. We remember what has been contributed to society, but today trying to bring that back, it’s pretty difficult. It’s not the season for it. You try to rear a child with force now, it’s not the season, it won’t work.

	B:	So instead of looking back, you think we spend more time looking forward?



	G:	Looking forward. What can I change to get things better where I am? Cause whatever that was back there is the cause of where we are now. So if you dwell too much back there, you can’t go backwards. At least you shouldn’t. Let’s go forward.

	B:	Is there anything else you want to add? I think I about covered it, everything. G:	No, I think I’m pretty satisfied with everything.

	B:	Oh, one thing I did want to ask: What was your impressions of UF when you were a kid and as a teenager?

	G:	Well, I knew a little about this university, but again information that dealt with higher level of training, we didn’t get it firsthand so much. Sometimes some of the activities that is scheduled, we get it after the fact. But as far as school is





concerned, and higher level education, it was something to really consider, but again this school wasn’t always available to everybody. Most of the children that finished school, especially the Black children that is, they didn’t really have money to attend this place. They either went to Daytona, Bethune, Jacksonville, Edward Waters College up on the hill, A&M, and even those schools, you know, you didn’t get into them free, but parents sort of be more reassuring to the child that we could get you through here because of the price. And I mean there was a few that was able to attend here, because parents was a little bit more well off financially than the ones that I came up with.

	B:	So even kids that you grew up with ended up here?



	G:	Yeah, there was a few that did come here, but it was after they had gone somewhere else and they furthered their training after coming here. But I don’t recall right now—one made this his primary and first choice that I know of, but maybe as I think I might come across some of the classmates that have passed on. And in fact we just had a funeral one Saturday, I think her name was Ernestine Fisher. She was a former member of ACT. There are some that did further their training at University of Florida. But right now I don’t recall one had made this their primary choice once they were out of high school.

	B:	I think that’s actually a good place to stop. [End of interview]





	Audit edited by:	Holland Hall, May 17, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 19, 2019