AAPHP 243; Wilson; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 243 Frances Wilson

African American History Program (AAHP) Interview conducted by Maria H. Muñoz on January 15, 2012

17 minutes | 9 pages



Abstract: In this interview with Ms. Frances Wilson, Ms. Wilson describes her experience working as a teacher in Alachua County and compares it to her time as a student in the county. Additionally, she underscores her involvement in her church community, including the many hours she spends volunteering in her community through her church. Furthermore, she touches upon the individuals she knew who were employed by the Atlantic Coast Line. Ms. Wilson also speaks of her experiences at her high school reunions, and of the strong connections she maintains with her high school friends.



Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida]

















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 243

Interviewee: Frances Wilson Interviewer: Maria H. Muñoz Date: January 15, 2012



	M:	So hello, my name is Maria Muñoz. I’m here on behalf of the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. I’m here at Mt. Carmel Church and I’m sitting today with Ms. Frances—

	W:	Wilson.



	M:	Ms. Frances Wilson. I thank you Ms. Wilson for coming out and doing this interview with us today. And so just to get us started if you want to gone head and tell me your name, when and where you were born.

	W:	Okay, I’m Frances Wilson and I was born here in High Springs in 1943. I attended school at Douglass High School from first through eighth grade. And I attended high school in Alachua at A.L. Mebane High School from 9-12th grade.

	M:	Okay great and what did your parents do? What were their occupations?



	W:	My father worked the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad that was here during that time. M:	Okay.

	W:	Yep.



	M:	Right. And what was your childhood like?



	W:	Well I had a great childhood, you know. I can’t remember. I have to be told about things, you know. But yeah I had a great—I was the only child. You know, I had both parents and until my father deceased. I had a good life here.

	M:	Did your father pass away when you were young? W:	Yes. I was ten years old when he passed away.

	M:	And how was life for you and your mom after that?





	W:	Well my mom continued to work hard. She made it. She worked. Through work she supported me through college to the best that she could. I had to work of course, but I did finish college.

	M:	What kind of jobs did your mom have?



	W:	My mother just did days’ work, you know, house work.



	M:	What did you study when you were in college and where did you attend?



	W:	I attended Florida Memorial; It’s Florida Memorial University now in Miami. I attended Florida Memorial College in St. Augustine. Then they made a move to Miami. And I majored in elementary education, and I worked in Alachua for over 20 years at Alachua High School.

	M:	So I assume you‘re retired now? W:	Yes.

	M:	Okay great. What was your favorite subject to teach in elementary school? W:	Math.

	M:	Yeah? That is awesome. So what was high school like for you? W:	Fun.

	M:	Yeah?



W:  It was challenging. I attended high school where we were here at Douglass. You know in the beginning it was a lot different when we went to high school because we had students form a lot of different areas. You know larger classes, but it was a good experience.

M:  Right. And so if you were born in [19]40… W:  ]194]3.





	M:	[194]3. Then by time you went to high school was integrated right? But was your elementary school?

	W:	No I wasn’t in the integrated situation. I graduated in 1961. M:	Oh okay. Right yeah that makes sense. [19]61.

	W:	I think I was through with college and then it was integrated.



	M:	Then you were done with college by that time as well? And so you went off and you finished and you got a job here in Alachua?

	W:	At Alachua Elementary School.



	M:	So there are any stories you’d like to share with us about working in a school or a maybe college experience or something?

	W:	Well I graduated from Mebane High School. And I came back and that was my first job, and which was a good experience because we know the people and had to work with and work under. I got comfortable with situations and getting information or whatever I needed, you know, to get started.

	M:	Okay. How was it working in a school after going through an all-Black schooling almost, and then going in to a teaching profession? How was that for you?

	W:	I was comfortable, you know, I would—I had good experiences. M:	Very supportive experiences?

	W:	Yes.



	M:	So was it sort of an easy transition for you— W:	Yes.

	M:	As a teacher?



	W:	Yes.





	M:	Did you have a positive response from your students? W:	Yes. Yes I did.

	M:	Yeah?



	W:	I’m still same parents.



	M:	That’s good. That’s really good. Were you ever married? Did you have any children of your own?

	W:	No. I raised a child—a relative. Two years old through college. I had the experience.

	M:	Yeah two years old to college. That’s the bulk of it. Okay well so, maybe if you could tell me—

	W:	Mostly what I remember here as a child with jobs, I knew everybody out here down this street and everybody—every man during that time with a job was working at Atlantic Coast Line.

	M:	And when did that railroad system cease to exist here?



	W:	I don’t remember the year, but it was there during back when growing up. It was there. I can’t remember the year. Simply because they would take part and then that there would be some activity going on. So just one point in time that it was completely…I don’t know.

	M:	Okay. And we are also interested in like your civic engagement. Where you part of any civic organizations, like maybe an alumni club or maybe a church group or—I don’t know girls scout. I’m sure you were part of girl’s scouts, but something like that.





	W:	Well I was always involved in church groups. I worked on the usher board and sang in the choir, Sunday school teacher, and…I was the alumni of the Eastside Community Club which worked towards helping a community buy playground equipment for children, playgrounds in the area.

	M:	Good. And your peers did they experience…did they have the same experience as you did?

	W:	Yes. Yes.



	M:	Most of your friends went off to college with you and stuff like that?



	W:	Yes. I had quite a few. Yeah I my high school class we still have reunions. M:	You do have the Reunions?

	W:	Year after year. We are having our 50th year reunion.



	M:	Oh wow. That’s exciting. I’m getting ready to do my 10 year reunion this year actually.

	W:	Okay.



	M:	I don’t know when, but that’s exciting right? Did you have any male cousins was their experience through high school the same way. Like since I know that you are an only child? Did you have any cousins growing up and such?

	W:	Yes they were younger, but they went through the same system. You know here.



	M:	And how was it living on your own when you went to college since it was in another city?

	W:	I loved it because when I went college, I not only—you know I was on my own now. The living situation I mean.

	M:	Right you were in a dorm.





	W:	Yeah. I had company. I didn’t get lost. I guess I had to adjust with living with people.

	M:	Yeah.



	W:	Yeah but I had learned to love it.



	M:	Did you have to work through college?



	W:	Yes I worked. I did college work study which I had to last with national events long.

	M:	National events? What kind of events?



	W:	When I was in the government; Writing grants. M:	Oh grants okay. So how is life for you now?

	W:	I’m good, good. I’m single and live alone. And I have my church activities and some community activities. So, great.

	M:	Are you going to be going out to the Martin Luther King Celebration Wrap Up today at 4?

	W:	Yes. Yes. I’ve been doing it all week. I even walked yesterday. I didn’t know whether I was gonna get up this morning or not.

	M:	There was a walk yesterday or a parade or something or? W:	Uh-huh

	M:	There was a here? How far did you walk?



	W:	We walked from the city hall downtown to the Martin Luther King Daycare Center on the other side of town.

	M:	That’s nice. There’s a lot of people? W:	Yes.





	M:	Okay, and there was food and—



	W:	And they sold all of the proceeds this week was for to support the daycare center. So the child there had a good time and we did.

	M:	That’s always important. And so how was your last reunion celebration? W:	My class reunion?

	M:	Mmhm your class reunion.



	W:	Yeah it was good. We had Friday night through Sunday services. M:	Did you play any basketball or—

	W:	No.



	M:	No little sock hop or something?



	W:	We are 68. No we did our fish fry and just went out to eat. Just together reminiscing.

	M:	Hmm that’s very important. How many alumni were there?



	W:	We had about 30. But it was about 61 of us. We had quite a few deaths. M:	Right. But 30 is still impressive.

	W:	Yeah and we still love each other which you know, is still great, ‘cause you know we were like that in high school. And we continuously keep up with each other. We have a phone line that goes you know in case something goes wrong with one you know they will…

	M:	There is a list of people you have to call. W:	Right.

	M:	That’s awesome.





	W:	I lived away from here about 10 years. I was in Lake City with a relative. When I came back here I became involved with Mt. Carmel. Well I grew up in Mt.

Carmel. My father was a member here, and I came back you know and got involved with them and it’s like an extended family. You know we just love each other and go on and whatever. When I was having problems, we all have problems until we get it under control.

	M:	Okay. And being involved in the church, and how was that like?



	W:	Uplifting experiences. It makes you want to be there and be involved in things.



	M:	Yeah like what kind things. Have you done any community action maybe through the group at church?

	W:	Yeah we have mission and we love doing things for the community. We have clothes give a ways in certain periods. We have the food give a ways on Thursdays here at the church. Yeah we are involved. We are. At Christmas we assist the daycare center with Christmas gifts. Pastor Williams is always trying to think of ways to involve the children. I’m not sure what he is taking into Wednesday night but it’s something for the youth with the Martin Luther King.

Take them this week. They have games. Take them to eat. You know, trying to keep them motivated and on track.

	M:	Very important, okay. So I don’t know if there is anything that you’d like to add throughout our conversation, if anything has just popped into your mind or any thoughts or something you’d like to share with myself or the program and any who might listen to the interview at some point?





	W:	No. All I have to say is we come a long a ways and we are trying to work together and trying to figure out what direction we need to be looking to.

	M:	Definitely. Okay Ms. Williams I thank you very much for, I’m sorry Wilson right? Instead of Williams, I’m really sorry. Ms Wilson thank you very much for taking your time to speak with me and with us. I hope you have a great day and a great celebration today.

	W:	Well thank you. M:	No problem. [End of interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, June 28, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 21, 2019