AAHP 749; Bowser; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 749 Robert Bowser Interviewed by Don Obrist on February 6, 2020

90 minutes | 45 pages



Abstract: Robert Bowser details his time growing up as an African-American man in the 1930s and on, navigating struggles of racism and discrimination. He begins with his tumultuous childhood in New York’s foster care system and experience with integration in high school. Later on the interview, Bowser begins to focus primarily on his career with the United States Navy, where he rose in the ranks despite the prejudices of his often White officials, as well as the effect on his family life. At fifty-six, Bowser turned to the church, becoming a reverend in order to teach the lessons of the Bible and continues to do so in any way he can today. Throughout the interview, we see Bowser overcome countless obstacles during his life presented due to societal standards and shortcomings, ultimately culminating in a happy ending with his children around him.



Keywords: [African American History; Veteran’s History; Navy; Civil Rights; Religion]



AAHP 749

Interviewee: Robert Bowser Interviewer: Don Obrist

Date of Interview: February 6, 2020





	O:	Okay, well good afternoon Reverend Bob. RB:	Good afternoon.

	O:	Thank you for being here today. RB:	You’re welcome!

	O:	We are on the campus of the University of the Florida, and we’re at the Samuel Proctor Oral History department, specifically the Veteran’s Project. And we’re here today, and we’re gonna chat about you, your life, your military experiences, and why don’t we start off― well, actually, and of course, my name is Don Obrist, I’ll be doing the interview. Now, tomorrow’s your birthday!

	RB:	Yes, sir.



O: Ninety one years old. RB:  Yes, sir.

O:  Today’s date is February 6, 2020, tomorrow is the seventh of February. You were born in 1929, I did the math right. Okay, now where were you born?

	RB:	I was born on 135th Street in Manhattan, New York.



	O:	Well, that’s very specific. That’s great, in New York City! RB:	New York City, New York state.

	O:	Now, how large is your family? Do you have brothers and sisters?



	RB:	They’re both deceased. My brother, Leo, he was retired Navy also and he got Mesothelioma, and he passed away at age sixty-five a number of





years ago. And I have a half-sister, she passed away also. So I’m the only one left.

	O:	Okay, now what about your mom and dad? Can you talk about that for a little bit?

	RB:	Well, I came up in foster care, let me back up a little bit. My mother lived in Weldon, North Carolina, and her name was Lillian. Lillian Ponton. And she was a friend of my father’s, her sister, and my father somehow or another got a hankering to her and he was a lot older, and I think he was twenty nine, he liked young girls, and I think he was twenty nine when he met my mother, maybe twenty seven or twenty eight because my brother’s older than me. And as a result of their meeting, he had my brother, I mean my mother had my brother and I think she was sixteen years of age at the time. And she had me, I think she was eighteen. And this, what my father did, he took her out of Weldon, North Carolina and took her to New York and that’s why I was born in Harlem on 135th Street in an apartment.

	O:	Okay, now, you said you were raised in foster care. RB:	Yes, I―

	O:	You know, before we do that, I failed to― usually, when I start out the interview, I ask the veteran to spell their name, their last name. You go by Reverend Bob, Reverend Bob Bowser?

	RB:	Yeah.



	O:	And how do you spell Bowser? Make sure we have the clear. RB:	B-O-W-S-E-R.





	O:	Okay. Now you said you were raised in foster care, can you talk a little bit to that? What that was like― how that happened and why―?

	RB:	Yes, how it happened was my mother put my brother and I both into foster care, or into New York Foundling Hospital and as a result of that, we ended up in the foster care and it was called Edwin Gould Foundation, which we would refer as “the home.” And they put us― the home put us in foster care and my first foster mother’s name was Cora Lane, she was an older woman and it was she and her mother, that they called “Babe,” B-A- B-E, who had been a former slave and we lived in Jamaica, New York, and I didn’t know that she wasn’t my mother but I think when we were― when I was about four years of age, the home took us away from her because― when I say us meaning my brother and me― because she, I think she was sixty five at the time and they took us away and they took us to a place called― an orphanage called, in Riverdale.

	O:	Is that when you realized she wasn’t your mother? RB:	Yeah, when they took us.

	O:	How’d you take that? It would be a shock.



	RB:	Not good at all. I’ll tell you, I can still remember how they took us, the people from the home, these social workers came and enticed us― oh, that was later. They took us from her, I don’t recall, I had to be about four or five and my brother is a year and a half older than me, and they took us to place in Riverdale, New York in the Bronx, Upper Bronx, and it’s called the Orphanage for Colored Children. That’s what it’s called, to this day.





	O:	So they segregated the orphanages? RB:	I’m sorry?

	O:	The orphanages where you were staying, they segregated them?



RB:  Oh absolutely! The United States was a segregated society, and still is in many places as you probably know.

O:  Now this was New York State. RB: It doesn’t make any difference. O:  In the 1930s?

	RB:	It’s even worse then, okay. And I do recall being in the orphanage with the other kids there, it was on the Hudson River in Riverdale and I can recall looking out the doctor’s office and seeing the boats going up and down the river and my brother, he decided he was gonna escape and he went down the fire escape into the courtyard and he couldn’t get out, of course, but they got him―

	O:	He didn’t have a plan, though, did he? RB:	No.

	O:	Even if he got out, where he was gonna go, what he was gonna do.



	RB:	No, well, how could he? He was a child, a young child, all he knew is he wanted to go back to Jamaica with our foster mother, Cora Lane, who we thought was our real mother. And, let me just back up a little bit with Cora Lane, when Cora Lane got me, I was nine months old and Cora Lane’s daughter’s name was Lolita Hall, who was a dancer and I can remember Cora Lane taking me and handing me to her daughter and she was in the





bed, and that was my first recollection, I was nine months of age. And her daughter we call, “Lo,” her name was Lolita, but that was― my brother and I had a very, very good childhood in Jamaica up until the time they took us away.

	O:	Now let me ask you, this is gonna sound very naïve, I’m sure, the question, but the foster care was also segregated?

	RB:	Oh, absolutely. And I kind of mentioned, where I’ll get to that later, about I mentioned that I was in Edwin Gould Foundation later, okay? And when they took my brother and I― first of all, my first foster mother, Cora Lane, raised so much cane that they got my brother and I and brought us back with her, okay? And we with her until we were― I was age eight and then that’s when they enticed, when they took us away again, this is 1937. I was eight and my brother was, I guess nine. And how they― when I say they, I’m talking about the social worker, she enticed us with chocolate kisses. And to this day I don’t like chocolate kisses because I don’t remember being enticed into the vehicle, and the car took us to a place called Monsey, New York, with Mrs. Betty Johns, who was our next foster mother who I stayed, and she had a little farm later on and I stayed there until I was seventeen. That’s where I learned my work ethics, scrubbing floors, milking cows, sopping hogs, and all that kind of stuff. But what happened, again, Cora Lane raised so much cane, so they allowed her to come and visit us at Thanksgiving, at Easter.

	CB:	And you got close at Christmas, did you―?





	RB:	No, Christmas, my brother and I were allowed to go to her place in Jamaica. And that’s the way it was, and so we― I just had to get out from under the home, my brother did, too. We had to give the home our report cards and it was always the specter that you’d be sent to a reformatory if you were bad. And I, you know, I was scared to death most of the time.

	O:	Scared to death of your personal safety, or scared―? RB:	We are being taken uprooted―

	O:	Uprooted again?



	RB:	Yeah, exactly.



	O:	Because it happened unexpectedly so many times.



	RB:	Exactly. And Mrs. Lane, I don’t know how she did it but she would make that trip from Jamaica, taking subways and buses and things, when we were in Rockland County in Munsey, New York, and come and see my brother and me.

	O:	Now how long were you there, in Rockland County?



	RB:	From the time I was eight until I went to the Navy at seventeen. O:	Okay, so you went to school all throughout the period?

	RB:	Oh, yes. But, that― why that was a blessing in disguise, because the school I went to was very high standard, the passing grade in grammar school was seventy five and a lot of places was sixty five. The same thing when I went to high school, it was seventy five and then the teachers would say, “If you couldn’t get at least seventy five percent on your work, unsatisfactory, you weren’t doing anything.” So, some kids were not― in





grammar school, we went to the eighth grade, now they call it middle school, but we went to the eighth grade and then we went to high school for the four years and we had a selection of what school you wanted to go to. Unfortunately, for my brother, he horsed around so much, I passed him, I caught up with him and he still horsed around and I passed him. He never got over. And the high school he selected was in Nyack, New York, Nyack and Pearl River’s passing grades were sixty five. The one I selected was Spring Valley High School, which is basically a Jewish and there was a lot of money there and the passing grade, as I said, was seventy five, minimum. I used to carry, I guess, about an eighty two, eighty three percent average.

	O:	So what was your motivation? Was it fear of failure, fear of going back to the orphanage, or you just wanted to be successful, or a combination of all of that?

	RB:	All of those. And, I just wanted to do things and what happened when I got to high school, well even before high school, in grammar school, I was part of the band and my brother was, too. When I got to high school, I was in the band there and I went to football rallies in high school, it was just great! Really, really was.

	O:	You obviously felt comfortable there? You felt comfortable academically and within the social setting also?

	RB:	Oh, also. That’s right. And I often had said to myself, “If I had someone who―” see my foster mother at the time, Mrs. Betty Johns, she would say





to us that the home would send us to college, you know, if we did so and so and so and so. Well, all I could think about was just getting out, but she didn’t know, she meant well, but she didn’t know how to council us and direct our course so when it came to high school, I selected an easy way, the mathematics I took was general math instead of algebra and then geometry, but if I had the guidance at that time, I think I― it’s the same thing I said about my son, Kevin, I had to really get on him, because Kevin―

	CB:	But this is about you, dad.



	O:	Yes, but again, I’m just― okay, I’m just saying.



CB:  It’s more than he needs to tell. I want you to get to what happened before you went in the Navy, as far as when the school came and told you about your last name. The discrepancy of that.

	RB:	Oh, yes, I was in high school, at Spring Valley High School, and I mentioned I was gonna mention about Edwin Gould Foundation, it was segregated, they had another place for Caucasian kids in Spring Valley at Edwin Gould Foundation, okay. We were in the foster care isle, but anyway, the home was going to change my name from Ponton to my father’s name, Bowser. And I said, “If you do, I’m not gonna go to school.” So they didn’t. I didn’t become Bowser until I went and joined the Navies, my brother and I both. Then we took our father’s name. But until that time, we were both Ponton. P-O-N-T-O-N. So I’ve been Bowser since I was seventeen and raised my hand in the United States Navy on the twenty





seventh of February, 1946, at the end of World War II. That’s how long I been Bowser. And I didn’t know any other blood relative other than my brother until I was twenty one, and my brother and I were in Norfolk, Virginia, he was stationed on a destroyer in Norfolk and I as stationed on the base. And he said to me one day, he said, “Bob, I ran into a guy who says he thinks he knows some of our people in Walden, North Carolina,” and my brother wasn’t that outgoing, I said, “Well, tell me more!” But he― so I found the family. I went to Walden and found my relatives and from that point, I was able to find my mother’s people and my father’s people.

	O:	How’d you feel about that? I mean, they gave you some closure?



	RB:	Well, it did. It was very, very interesting and on my father’s side, well, I met my aunts, his sisters, for the first time and I stayed at one of my father’s sister’s house and he was living in Washington D.C. at the time and she called him and said, “Your son is here,” and I was sound asleep and this man came in at the middle of the night, rustling me, telling me he’s my father and blah blah blah, and I nearly went to war with him, I didn’t know who he was! But at any rate―

	O:	Were you able to reconcile with your father?



	RB:	Not really. My brother did. My father and I didn’t get along that well, together. And I never― my brother and I never got to see our mother.

	O:	Was it, you’re angry with― you feel abandoned? RB:	No, I just didn’t know him.

	O:	His lifestyle was so different.





	RB:	Well it was just so different. So different, I didn’t know who he was, okay? CB:	At what―?

	O:	Before Crystal, before you go into that, I just want to add that we have here today, Crystal Bowser, who is Reverend Bob’s daughter.

	CB:	Oldest child.



	O:	Oldest child, okay. Daughter. And Kevin, who’s joined us from Zephyrhills? Is that correct, Kevin?

	KB:	Yes.



	O:	They’re here also, today. So, you were saying?



	CB:	I know that my grandmother put you into foster care and then she passed away soon thereafter―

	RB:	Wait, who?



	CB:	Your mother. She had put you in foster care because she was having difficulty trying to manage you and your brother, and then she passed away and that’s how you went through the whole, all your school years, as Ponton.

	RB:	That’s right.



	CB:	So, it was, how did― my thing is, how did you really feel when they told you in the school that, today I’m Ponton, tomorrow you’re gonna be Bowser?

	RB:	How did I feel? CB:	Yes.





	RB:	I felt embarrassed, and I wasn’t gonna go to school. And I― embarrassment. I was a kid, you know, and the same thing happened with another one of the Caucasian kids from the Edwin Gould Foundation place in Spring Valley, they did the same thing, wanted to do the same thing with him. And I remember him reacting the same way I did, you know.

	O:	Okay, now let me ask you why did you join the military, first of all? You must’ve enlisted, right?

	RB:	Yes.



O:  And secondly, why the Navy, because you had mentioned earlier about the Navy being so racist, particularly during that period of time? So two questions there. Why the military and why the Navy?

	RB:	Alright, my brother and I, this was in― World War II was going on, and we used to go to the movies and my brother and I, we see these sailors dancing on the screen and we said to one another, “That’s what I wanna be. I want to be a sailor.” And so, and oh, we thought about this, that there’s gonna be music and dancing, and that’s how we joined in it, why we wanted the Navy. We were kids, you know? And we had that in our minds from the time we were about fourteen or fifteen, seeing Jean Kelly and then some others dancing and we liked seeing the bell bottom trousers and we would see this, we would go to New York and we see the sailors walking in, bell bottom trousers, “That’s what I want to be,” that’s what we said. But what happened with my brother, and it was a way for us





to get from under the foster home, mainly, and having that threat, the specter of being pulled out and sent to some God-knows-where, you know, and I remember― I have to adjust my hearing aid. And I remember always that if you’re bad, you’re gonna end up in a reformatory, I remember those things. And I didn’t like the idea of having, they sent my report card to the home all the time, monitoring me, I just felt like I was a non-person, “subject to the whims of the home.” Quote, unquote. And that’s how I went to the Navy and how my brother went.

	O:	So this would give you independence? RB:	Well, it took us away from the home.

	O:	Excitement away from the home.



	RB:	Exactly. And we thought we were gonna be men then.



	O:	Well, let me ask you this now. Did that work out for you? I mean, initially when you went into the military, was it what you thought?

	RB:	To me, it was, because see, I was used to hard work. My work ethic was right there, scrubbing floors on my knees and all that kind of― I remember guys in boot camp crying because they couldn’t, they’d never did any work in their lives. And they would, it’d just tickle me, that’s all. But, anyway, I was used to doing hard work. And they sent me, the Navy sent me to― let me back up about when I went to― when I enlisted. And see the home was glad to get rid of us because they didn’t have to pay for us anymore, okay. So they took us to a place called Grand Central Palace in New York City, in Manhattan and to the recruiting station and there was one other





Caucasian kid who was in class with me in high school and I remember he was there also with me. And what they did, they gave us a test and then on the papers they would put, “A-S” which mean apprentice seaman, and that’s what they put on my, on this fella’s papers, they didn’t put anything on mine. I said, “How come I’m not a A.S.?” So they said to me, “Well, you’re gonna be going to Bainbridge, Maryland to be a steward.” And my brother had already warned me about being a steward, which was a servant, okay. A flunky for the officers, cleaning up after them and that kind of thing. So, Leo had told me that, about that because he went a year before me, and I said, “I don’t have to be in your Navy.” So the guy says, “Well, in order to be an apprentice seaman, you have to take a test.” I said, “Well, give me the test!” So they gave me this stupid test, it was racist. They said, “If you see a fire near the fire alarm, what would you do?” Things like that, stupidity! But anyway, to make long story short, there was an African-American chief petty officer there and they told him to talk to me and he did. And I told him, “I don’t have to be in your Navy,” I mean that was my attitude. I didn’t know what the harm was gonna do, but all I knew was that I was seventeen and I didn’t have to be in that Navy.

And I told him that. So, they finally said, “Well, you passed this test, so you’re gonna be an apprentice seaman like your classmate.” And they sent me to, we got on a troop ship out of Jersey City― troop train, not ship, and we went down to Camp Perry, Virginia which is in Williamsburg,





Virginia. Today it’s a CIA base, Camp Perry. And I was the only person of color in my company.

	O:	Well, at this time, the military was supposed to be integrated. RB:	No, that didn’t happen, no.

	O:	Didn’t Truman integrate―? RB:	No.

	O:	Oh no, that was the late [19]40s.



	RB:	I was talking about the late [19]40s, Truman didn’t integrate until July 1948, I was there.

	O:	That’s right. So this is before that? RB:	Yeah, this is before that.

	O:	So your experience was very common for someone of color or a minority, particularly in the Navy?

	RB:	The thing that was the key to my success was that I was a typist, and they had a need for a typist. And I learned how to type in my sophomore year in high school, and that was the key to my success and that had several others persons of color who were― we were called Negroes then, and they would stamp on our service record, big letters, “Negro. Negro.

Negro.” I been “colored,” I been “Negro,” I been spat upon, and during then, when I got into the Navy, I made it into the ship and say, that’s where you met people from all over, and particularly the South. And that’s where―





O:  That had to be a real eye-opener for you because you had experienced certainly racism and prejudice and segregation, but this was a different level, wasn’t it?

	RB:	It was the same that I had seen. Let me back up in high school, I mean grammar school, I remember in class, as I said I was the only person of color in my class in grammar school, and I remember there was a girl by the name of Hilda Piper, she was gonna have a birthday party, or she was gonna have a party and everybody― different [Inaudible 29:59] in the class were gonna attend the party. So, nobody asked me to attend. And this was in the seventh and eighth grade and she said to me, “Well, my brother is going to have a birthday party,” he was give years old, “you can come to that.” Yeah. Then they used to go swimming at a place called― this was in Nanuet, New York, they used to go swimming in a place called Lake Nanuet and I can remember hot, humid days and a bunch of the kids in the class said, “Well, we’re gonna go swimming.” Got to Lake Nanuet and the owners of the place said, “You can watch them but you can’t go in the water.” That was really the eye-opener. See, “You can watch, but you can’t go in the water.”

	O:	So you didn’t have any expectations that the Navy would be any different.



	RB:	Not really. Not really. So, I’ve experienced racism all my life, but again you develop a sense of how to protect yourself from getting so upset and that kind of thing. Or else you’d be fussing and fighting all the time, or feeling inferior, that’s what happened to my brother. Feeling inferior. But the kind





of personality that I had, I didn’t feel inferior, I would just fight. I fought all kinds of ways, I don’t talk about physically fighting, as I gained rank in the Navy, I was in position to be an advocate for those who were disadvantaged in many ways and because I had rank I could do that. But, a chief petty officer in the United States Navy is a big deal, I’m telling you. They are the― we are called the backbone of the Navy, chief petty officer. But when I became a chief petty officer, they didn’t even want to recognize me, okay? I don’t know whether you ever saw or heard about or saw the movie, “Man of Honor,” with the first Black Navy diver, you heard of it?

	CB:	Yeah.



	KB:	With Cuba Gooding Jr. CB:	Yeah, he played the part. RB:	He played the part.

	KB:	And Robert De Niro.



	RB:	Yeah, well, I remember the guy. CB:	Brashear.

	RB:	Brashear, yeah. I remember him.



	O:	When did you become a chief petty officer?



	RB:	I became a chief petty officer on the sixteenth of November, 1958. I became a chief yeoman, which was administrative, legal, and that sort of thing. And I had to take an examination.





	O:	You went in 1946, it took you to twelve years to get to that level, is that considered average? It would take twelve years to get to that level or did you―?

	RB:	No, it would. I, as a matter of fact― yes, that was the average. O:	It was?

	RB:	Yes.



	O:	Okay. But you must have had a lot of roadblocks along the way? RB:	Oh, lord, yes. But I was sent to different schools and things, I went to

Naval Justice School in Newport, Rhode Island, where I learned court reporting and that sort of thing, I went to Navy schools. And I was good in schools, and I went to one in San Diego, California to learn shorthand.

They taught us― this is in 1952, [19]51 or [195]2. They taught us two years of high school, Gregg Shorthand in sixteen weeks in the United States Navy. And they said to us, “It’ll come to you.” And we would be marching to chow and everything and a guy said, “Bowser, listen, it’ll come to you.” And he was right. And I had to go to the library and the magazines were in shorthand, the books were in shorthand, and one day I was walking to lunch― well, we’re not walking, we marched, and it came to me. Or, I understood it and I was able to read it and write it at that time.

	CB:	Did they teach you Pitman or Gregg?



RB:  Gregg Simplified, is what it was called. We had reforms and all that kind of stuff, but if you don’t use it, you lose it. And the idea of why they taught us that, to be court reporters, but soon thereafter the Navy developed





what is still going on in the legal profession called stenomask where you speak into― you know, people speaking into a mask that repeats it, what’s being said in the court. Some of them used this stenotype, but stenomask is what we had here, it was a great thing, was a boom.

Because they couldn’t very many sailors or people who did shorthand, I was writing a hundred and twenty words a minute in [Inaudible 36:09]. I was typing like sixty words a minute at that time and that was on the manual type writer, I was typing seventy six words a minute on the manual and the best manual typewriter ever used was Underwood upright. The best typewriter!

	O:	Now you were also a veteran of the Korean War? RB:	Yes, I am. That was my combat war.

	O:	Okay. That war started in 1950, it was June 1950? RB:	No― yes! June 1950, that’s correct.

	O:	Okay, when were you deployed to Korea?



	RB:	Alright, I was on the base at Norfolk, I was stationed at Norfolk, Virginia, then. And what happened, let me just say this sir, I was going through a lot of changes down in Norfolk, Virginia and the office that I was supposed to work in had― because of the ranking that I had at the time, third class yeoman, which was administrative and when I reported for duty, they did not expect a person of color, a Negro, at that time to show up. And the office I was supposed to work in had four White women, and two sailors, and I was gonna be the second sailor. They told me to have a seat out in





the lobby, I had a seat in the lobby. They transferred me from headquarters Fifth Naval District to the receiving station, and that also happened in Brooklyn, too. They didn’t want me on the staff of the headquarters Fifth Naval District, so how I got to the ship, later on I ended up getting a humanitarian transfer from Norfolk, Virginia because Mrs.

Lane, my first foster mother, was sick. And I was transferred, got a humanitarian transfer, to Brooklyn, New York, I was supposed to be there for four months. I’m getting to how I got to the ship. So, then after my four months was up and they said, while I had, had orders to go to a, what it’s called― to California to the, I’ve forgotten the name, it’s something frontier, but anyway, I got out of it and how I got out of it― there was an officer, there was a warnos, his name, Thomas Apass Reddy, who I knew from the receiving station that was from Munsey, and he was in the personnel department aboard this new aircraft carrier, the U.S.S. Oriskany, it was in Brooklyn Navy Yard and I saw him, he said, “Well, Bowser, I could use you,” he said, “I’ll take care of it.” And he got me tramped for that board of US.S. Oriskany, that aircraft carrier. When I saw that carrier, I was really moved. It was the most magnificent thing I saw in Brooklyn Navy Yard, and that’s how I got on there in 1950.

	O:	How many years were you on the Oriskany? RB:	Three.

	O:	Until [19]53?



	RB:	Until [19]50, I got off at [19]53 on the battle line in Korea, off of Japan.





	O:	What was your specialty? What was your job on the Oriskany?



	RB:	Administrative, I was the captain’s writer― no, it was, I was the first class yeoman and I was doing, what do you call, I was a classified correspondence yeoman for the ship. I would run up on deck and meet the helicopters and give the officer messenger mail and all the classified mail and I did the paperwork for people to get clearances and those kinds of things and I tell you, running up on that flight deck was something, but I was young.

	O:	Now was that your job for the three years you were on the ship?



	RB:	Yeah, I became― that’s right, but I later became, I was second class and I became first class and I was the captain’s, you know, that’s what I did.

And then I got orders to go to New York, I had to go to Third Naval District in New York and the captain said to me, the captain’s name, his name, same name as this hospital, Courtney Shands. And I can remember him saying, he says, “Bowser, the Navy says if you can’t come to New York now, they’re gonna cancel your orders,” he says, “I’m not gonna be like a lot of commanding officers, they get rid of their bad people and they won’t give their good people a chance,” he says, “you’re an outstanding person, I’m not gonna hold you back.” And they put me on a high line, a high line to go from doing replenishment, I went from a high line to oiler to another ship, that’s some experience.

	U1:	What is a high line?





	RB:	It’s a chair, on a moving, on a line moving between the ships, all the while the ships are in motion!

	U1:	Oh!



	RB:	[Laughter]. So anyway, that’s how I high lined to get off at a riskily on the battle line, okay. And we had already gone through some things on there, because we had a plane that had to have a bombing and all that stuff. But anyway, it was really something and that’s when I had my orders to go to New York and Captain Courtney Shands, he became an admiral, he says, “Bowser, you deserve to go home and go to New York.”

	CB:	So it’s the Oriskany that got hit with the― where the thing blew up and some people died and everything?

	RB:	That’s right.



	O:	Well, how’d you get back to the Oriskany now? CB:	No, Officer Shands sent him off because― RB:	I had orders, to go to New York.

	CB:	Yeah, but this was after the ship had got hit by a bomb. O:	Oh, this was 1953 you’re talking about?

	RB:	Yeah, and―



	O:	Oh, okay. I’m still in 1950, okay, hold on a minute here. RB:	Oh, you still in 1950, that’s how I got on―

	O:	I’m a chronological guy, here, I got to go through the years, RB:	Okay, back up then, tell me what you want.

	O:	Okay, 1950. Is that when you actually went on the Oriskany?





	RB:	Yeah, I got on the Oriskany in 1950― O:	And you were on for three years?

	RB:	Yeah.



	O:	And you did tours in the Mediterranean? RB:	Mmhm.

	O:	That was the initial tours, but you didn’t go to Korea until September [19]52?

	RB:	Until December of [19]52.



	O:	[19]52, okay, that’s when you actually entered combat area?



	RB:	That’s right. I was in the winter offense of 1952, and the spring offense of 1953.

	O:	Okay now, you said you worked for the captain of the ship. RB:	Yeah.

	O:	So you were in kind of the center of what was going on all the time? RB:	Yeah.

	O:	You must’ve known what was going on all the time whereas most people on the ship didn’t?

	RB:	That’s exactly right.



	O:	Right, right. So you entered combat in [19]52, tell me about that. What was that like?

	RB:	It was― I was on an aircraft carrier first of all. It was arduous, you’re on the go constantly, okay, and the pilots is smelling gasoline, aviation gas, ammunition, “Up, two, three, four,” you’re on the go because you were the





support for these pilots who were dropping the bombs. And it was “up, two, three, four.” And I was gone low, I was up, two, three, four.

	CB:	While you were on the Oriskany, what were your sleeping quarters like?



	RB:	Integrated. But when I was aboard the U.S.S. Lady, the first aircraft carrier before the integration came in [19]48, we were segregated aboard that.

People of color were. And I can remember when Truman signed the executive order, integrating the armed forces, July 1948. Then they put us together. We worked with everybody else, but they didn’t allow us to sleep because that was the state of mind of the dominant culture in the United States of America.

	O:	Was there a lot of pushback from your fellow sailors when they integrated you into the sleeping quarters and everything?

	RB:	Yeah. Mainly from the officers. They didn’t do anything to try to smooth things because many of them were from the South, okay. The United States Navy was known to be basically a racist organization, I didn’t know that, because most of the people were from the South. I can still remember when I was in boot camp, marching along, you know, we’re in camp, we’re marching along, and a guy would kick me and try to trip me and I said, “Would you stop that?” And he was someplace down South, but he kept on doing it, and I say, “You do that again and I’ll knock you block off.” But anyway, what happened, I say, “Officer,” I say, “one of these days you may need me and I may need you.” And you know what happened? He got sick, and nobody else would help him and I helped him





to a sick bed. I couldn’t get rid of him after that! I could not get rid of him after that! And I said, you remember what I said, he said, “Bowser, I’m so sorry,” and all of the sudden they had a problem with it, I had a problem with a White Puerto Rican guy and he and I went to war and he said something that he shouldn’t have said to me, and this is in boot camp, and I went to war with him and the coming commander said, “there’s no fighting in this man’s Navy!” And it was raining cats and dogs. So what he did, he said, they have a clothes line that looks like a T, he had us sit up on top of the clothes line, it was pouring down rain, without ponchos on, and we had to do like this, flap our wings, say, “I’m a Doodoo bird, I’m a Doodoo bird!” But they did not doodoo, but something else, I just laughed and this Puerto Rican kid, he was crying and the more he cried, the more I laughed. “I’m a Doodoo bird!” Still remember that. And then one at a time, in boot camp what happened, I had not yet been in a swimming pool and then we went to swimming class and the water felt so good and I jumped in the pool and the coming commander said, “Who told you to get in that pool?” I was like “Nobody.” He said, “Well, come out and give me twenty five pushups.” Well, I was using to doing that, and I did it. And he said, “Give me twenty five more.” I did the twenty five more. He said, “Well, now listen, you don’t do things on your own in this man’s Navy.” But anyway, that’s what happened with the swimming pool. But, boot camp was an experience and I’m coming back up to the U.S.S. Oriskany, we got our pay in boot camp, the first pay we got was “flying five.” That was five





dollars, because it went so fast, they called it a “flying five.” The next time we got paid, we got ten dollars, and it was called, “the floating ten.” [Laughter]. And then, something else with boot camp, but going back to the Oriskany, that was serious business. Real serious business.

	CB:	Now that’s the one that got hit by― a plane exploded on it?



	RB:	The one, one of the F4, a Corsair, came in with a hundred fifty pound bomb and when it hit the deck, it hit the flight deck, the bomb came off and went total like this and hit number thee elevator and exploded down into the hanger deck where other planes were preparing to take off for a raid.

And the shrapnel went through the wing tanks, you know, on these gas wing tanks on the planes down, is one of the whole place they didn’t go up. But, it happened on other carriers when it did. And John McCain was on the Oriskany and that, later on, during the Vietnam War―

	O:	Where were you at this time? RB:	The Vietnam War?

	O:	You were on the Oriskany, where were you on the ship?



	RB:	Oh! I was on what they call the deck below the flight deck. I was down the passageway, or hallway as you civilians say. And, it scared the daylights out of me.

	O:	What was your first thought? You were being attacked? Or, you knew it was accident?

	RB:	No, I didn’t know what it was! Other than that it was a big explosion and we had about twenty, some-odd sailors who were disabled in many ways,





several were killed and maimed, arms blown off, whole kinds of things. Life aboard an aircraft carrier, then and now, is probably the most dangerous job in the Navy.

	KB:	In the world.



	RB:	Yeah, and guys get sucked up into ejects on the flight deck, it’s tough. At that time, I was running up on the flight deck to get the officer messenger mail that came in on the, what they call, the card flights, which means carrier on deck delivery. That’s, they call, a card. And I’d meet and get the classified officer messenger mail. And man, that wind would be blowing and I would be like this, [Shuttering], meeting these helicopters. But, it was no joke. You know, I have a lot of respect for guys who are on these carriers today. I tell you.

	CB:	So do you want to talk about the next ship after that? Or do you want to talk about this picture when you were―?

	RB:	What picture?



	CB:	[Paper ruffling]. That one.



	RB:	Oh, this picture! Oh, show it to him.



	CB:	Okay, I will, but do you want to talk about the other ship or this? RB:	Now this is my last combat ship. This happened in [19]49.

	CB:	Okay, we’ll give you the picture of this. O:	Okay.

	CB:	I thought he would have it there, but he didn’t. So, but we can get that to you.





	O:	Okay, what ship were you talking about now? CB:	Well, this one―

	RB:	That was the headquarters Third Naval District. CB:	Third who district?

	RB:	Headquarters Third Naval District, that’s New York. I was on shore duty then.

	CB:	Okay, but talk about what that picture was about because you told me that only select people were asked to be there and that they had someone from each branch of the service when that picture was taken, and Alex Haley was supposed to be there but he was sick. That’s the only reason he’s not in the picture.

	RB:	The one who was sick was Alex Haley, who was the author of “Roots.” He was a journalist for the Coast Guard at Governor’s Island and he was supposed to be in that picture with the other― that’s called the armed forces information, press information, press release, that’s where I learned to do press releases and all that stuff.

	CB:	So why were you all gathered there for that picture and you had to explain whatever was going on in the―

	RB:	That was a set, that was a photo op! O:	That was for the P-R.

	RB:	That’s right.





	O:	Yes, okay, okay. So, you were on the ship, the Oriskany, the aircraft carrier, through 1953. How did you feel when you came back, when the armistice was signed? Was it a big relief?

	RB:	I’m trying to― well, I didn’t think much about it because I was at headquarters service in New York, because I’d also gone through some racism crap at headquarters Third Naval District, they didn’t want to a person of color on their staff so they transferred me to what was called a receiving station which is at Brooklyn Navy Yard. And, so, you know, I’m still going through all that junk. So―

	O:	Did you see any progress at all along those lines, the first five, six years?



	RB:	No.



	O:	No?



	RB:	No.



	O:	Did you ever see progress, we’ll skip to the end of that one, did you ever see the progress through your Navy career?

	RB:	No.



	O:	Concerning the racism issue?



	RB:	No. Let me say this, the dominant culture is the dominant culture because that’s the way they are. There’s no change in Trump today and his cohorts and the things about nationalism and race, I don’t even want to get off onto that. It’s the same thing.

	O:	Okay, let’s narrow it, let’s keep it to the Navy. Keep it to the Navy. When did you leave the Navy?





	RB:	I retired on June 17, 1965. That’s active duty.



	O:	Right, okay. During that time, the active duty was the racism issue at the moment, you are saying from 1946 to 1964, you did not see any change?

	RB:	The only change I saw was when the integration that because of Truman’s executive order.

	O:	Okay. The official status, you saw, that was a major change obviously. RB:	Right, but that was it.

	O:	But, when the rubber met the road, when you had to live everyday life in the Navy, the culture didn’t change.

	RB:	No because the people who were racist were still racist, okay. The ones who were― now, let me be clear about that, there are many people of the dominant culture who were great and who were, you know, but there’s still that segment because it wasn’t all― I can remember, let me back up when in 1950, before I went aboard the Oriskany and I was in― in [19]48, I was in Norfolk, Virginia on the carrier, the U.S.S. Lady, and that was before integration started. It was all liberty! And you know liberty is getting off the ship to go about town. In the summertime, we didn’t wear uniforms and I remember in Norfolk, Virginia, we had to go into courts that were segregated and I remember someone spiking my drink, my Coca-Cola, and I ended up being high and I was in white uniform and I remember laying in the gutter, and I remember the policeman, a big, fat Southern cop, say, “If you don’t get that n-word guy out of the gutter, I’m gonna put his so-and-so in jail.” And this guy said, “No, we’ll take care of him.” Well,





they didn’t take care of me. And I ended up running through town and I ended up in the cemetery and I jumped through the hedges because I had, I didn’t drink, but had stuff and these barbed― I still got the barbed wire marks on my legs today from that! Okay, so that was―

	O:	That was intentional? That was done to you intentionally? RB:	I’m sorry?

	O:	That was done to you intentionally? They spiked your drink? Or do you think it was just some guys being funny and putting alcohol in?

	RB:	Yeah, well, our sailors did that, I know, I guess other guys did, too. Yeah.



	O:	Okay, there was another incident concerning racism that Crystal had mentioned to me a couple days ago. It had to do with your wife? She was selected, let me see if I got this right, “Mrs. US Navy Tri-State Area?”

	RB:	That is correct. O:	Is that right?

	RB:	Yes. She may even have a picture of it.



	CB:	Yes. [Paper ruffling]. Here we go, they were in Jet, they were in the New York Times, and this magazine called Hue, and this was when they went to California. But it’s in California where they wouldn’t do my mother’s hair when they found out that she was married to my dad.

	O:	Okay, let me see if I can get this straight. Your wife was considered White, or Black?

	RB:	She looks like a Caucasian. But she is actually biracial, she’s African American, Native American, and Caucasian.





	CB:	And some Spanish in there. RB:	Yeah.

	O:	That would be considered typical American, but, yes. CB:	Yes, exactly.

	O:	Okay, okay. But she looked White, she could pass for White? CB:	Absolutely.

	RB:	Absolutely.



	KB:	That’s the terminology that was used, she used to “pass.”



	O:	That’s right, okay. Got that right. Now, probably because of that, she was selected Mrs. U.S. Navy Tri-State Area?

	RB:	No, she was―



	O:	Or, that didn’t matter?



	RB:	She was selected based on writing an essay on why I’m proud to be a Navy wife.

	O:	Okay, so that was color-blind, the choice?



	RB:	It had to go before a board, and the board selected her. O:	Do you think because they thought she was White?

	RB:	No.



	CB:	No, it was based on the writing.



	O:	Oh, it was based on the writing, okay, I just wanted to get that clear because I know there was other issues here that developed.

	CB:	And because that was the tri-state area, but then when they got to California because they were finalists.





	O:	I see, okay. So they were going to pick a Mrs. U.S. Navy, overall? CB:	Right, for the whole United States.

	O:	For the whole United States. So, tell us the rest of the story when she got to the West Coast?

	RB:	When she got to the West Coast [Inaudible 62:34], the hotel and in preparation for the event, the wives were sent to the beauty salon in the hotel. Now this is 1958, now. Bear in mind that society in general was a racist society here. They told, when they found out who she was, who she was married to, they couldn’t do her hair in the beauty salon. And she went to see the Naval Officer who was in charge, wave officer, lieutenant commander, and she said, “Well, there’s nothing I can do.” So she had to go in town to get her hair done. And as we were riding in the parade, they had all these mobile convertibles where the husbands who were escort drove their wives in the parade, and I can still remember to this day as we were driving in parade, I still remember this Southern White woman’s voice saying, “Well, I declare! She’s as White as I am!” And I nearly cracked up. I still can remember hearing that, say that. But it was a racist society then. And, you know, that’s what I came up with.

	KB:	Wasn’t that 1956? You were like six months old? CB:	Right.

	RB:	Yeah, it was 195… what did I say? [19]58? CB:	You said [19]58.

	RB:	Oh, that’s what I mean, chief. It was [19]56.





CB: Because he was a baby and I was about four. RB:  Yeah, Kevin, he was one years old.

CB:  He was sick the day they had taken some pictures. So this is the parade that went when that lady made that comment, and they were riding in the car. Yes, because they had to watch some ships go by and so forth.

RB:  There was a fleet, a fleet review. They only did this one time, it was a fleet review, Secretary of Navy was there and all big muckty-mucks.

	CB:	Pa, I hate to say it, but probably, they didn’t you expect you all to get as far as you did in the contest and they decide, “Oh, we can’t take this chance again.”

RB:  I don’t know.



	O:	Needless to say, your wife did not become Mrs. Navy U.S.A. I guess. CB:	Not for the whole country, no.

	O:	Not for the whole country. CB:	But she was still fully―

	O:	Not that she wasn’t qualified or it was probably― at the time, it was also based on attractiveness and beauty and yeah.

	CB:	But she received all kinds of flowers, and a wardrobe and all this stuff in the New York area.

	O:	Right, right. And New York area had no problem with that. RB:	That’s right.





	O:	So there was progress, in New York! Well from the way you describe it. Yeah, I understand. So, the U.S.S Oriskany was brought off the line in [19]53. Did you stay on the ship after that, or where did you go from there?

	RB:	I went to headquarters Third Naval District in New York. And it was on my way―

	O:	Did you stay stateside the rest of your service?



	RB:	No. I went to New York and I was there for three years and that’s where, excuse me, I was supposed to be on the staff and, well, I was on the staff and I was in the― I have to remember, I was on the staff, the first time I was in [19]48, went to― thank you.

	O:	Do you want to take a break? You okay?



	RB:	No, no. First time I was on staff in 1949, that’s when I reported for duty, they transferred me to the receiving station ‘cause they didn’t have people of color on the staff, on the admiral staff. But the second time I was attached to― it was better the second time, because we had integration but the first time, the transfer― any person of color who, see they didn’t expect persons of color to have the job that I had, that’s what it was, administrative and legal and that sort of thing. So, the admiral― they had a thing where they would just intercept you and not let you go on staff. The same thing the receiving station was used to intercept people of color from going to Newfoundland, and they would― see because, it was, they didn’t know what your race was until you showed up a lot of the time and that time, I no longer had stamp on the record saying, “Negro,” and this, but





they had another thing, they used numbers, okay. They using numbers to identify―

	O:	So they had a way around it. RB:	I’m sorry?

	O:	Well, they had a way around it, then. Instead of stamping it, “Negro,” they would have assigned numbers?

	RB:	Yeah, well this was the whole government, was like that because the era that this thing was happening, in the [19]50s, there was a lot of money and companies were trying to get government contracts and so forth and they could not unless they had a certain percentage of people of color, okay.

So how could they identify unless they used― they couldn’t say, “Negro,” so they used a number to identify the individuals.

	O:	Well let me ask you, you said your records up until 1948, they would stamp it, “Negro,” right?

	RB:	Right.



	O:	Did they expunge that from your records, after 1948? RB:	Yeah, they changed the whole records.

	O:	They did?



	RB:	Oh yeah, they changed the whole type of records they were using. And there was nothing there to show, until a person showed up, okay.

	O:	So you were a good person, you were qualified for a job, until someone saw you who didn’t like your race?

	RB:	That’s exactly― didn’t like my color. Yes, exactly.





	O:	Yeah, didn’t like your color.



	RB:	That’s right. No matter how qualified. O:	Right, right.

	CB:	So when did you go to the Essex?



	RB:	I went to the U.S.S. Essex just before I retired. What happened― my tour duty at headquarters Third Naval District was up and I was supposed to go to an aircraft carrier out of Mayport, Florida, and I got a swap, okay. I got a swap to the Essex, the guy who was on the Essex wanted to be here, his family was here and he and I were the same rank, chief petty officer, and we swapped. That’s how I got the Essex.

	O:	Well, you were chief petty officer now on this ship, right? RB:	On the Essex, yes.

	O:	What was your job as chief petty officer now, because obviously that’s a very high― is that the highest officer rank?

	RB:	The chief petty officer has three things, E-7, E-8, and E-9. O:	And you were?

	RB:	I was E-7.



	O:	Seven, okay.



	RB:	And that came into being in 1948. We used to call them “super chiefs,” after the train. There was a train called the “Superchief.”

	O:	So what was your job on the Essex, then? As chief petty officer?



	RB:	Yes, I was the― I had a problem there, too, because they didn’t want to give me recognition so they had me on special projects.





CB:  So let’s go back to when you became a chief, because that year you said that there were only a handful of people across the nation that became it and there were two Black folks, you and one other person?

	RB:	Oh, on the ship that I was on, I was on the transport―



	CB:	No, I mean when you received that rank, you told me that, that year only― RB:	No, that year that I received the rank as a chief, chief yeoman, there were only sixteen of us made in the United States Navy and I was one of

sixteen. But, that’s through written examination, see. They didn’t know me from being, but I had all the credentials, I had been to Naval Justice School, I had been to Naval Class B School which is shorthand, I been to this and to that and plus, I had good grades, efficiency reports, I had officers who didn’t want to give me a good fitness report because of my color. My commanding officer, John Robert North, on the troop transfer, I was his chief petty officer and I asked him, “Well, how did I do?” He was getting transferred, they only stayed a year, the commanding officers, so they could rotate out, he said, “Well, I didn’t complain, did I?” And, you know, he would get me up in the middle of the night to dictate letters and all this stuff, I’m talking about two and three in the morning, and then I had to be there right on time the next morning, you know, for muster and all this stuff, and I never could see or understand why being way out at sea, I had to be in my tie, white shirt and tie and everything, but that’s the way it was. But, John Robert North, he was a pistol. He was a pistol. He was a segregationist, and he robbed me of a lot of sleep.





	O:	So, okay, what was your job on the Essex, I’m trying to hone in on that. As chief petty officer, what were you responsible for?

	RB:	I was supposed to be the chief in the captain’s office, which is the captain’s writer. But, the powers that be, did not want me in that position, so they devised a special project to put me on with developing some sort of okey-doke book or something. And that’s what I did until I retired. I went through changes and I had to walk on eggshells, so that they wouldn’t take away my rank for insubordination or something like that.

	O:	Now, you retired in [19]65, were you engaged in any actions relative to Vietnam?

	RB:	No. I was just a veteran of that era, just like in World War II. I was a veteran of the World War II era, the World War II era, I was non-combat and because I was in the service at that time, which [19]46 to December of [19]47 is when the era ended, and not on a winter day ended for Vietnam.

	O:	Right, right.



	KB:	Can I ask about the time when, just prior to President Kennedy being assassinated, I know you had orders to be transferred to France. We were studying French on records, and then when the president was assassinated your orders changed. Can you elaborate on that?

	RB:	I cannot. Nobody could tell me about that! [Laughter]. They couldn’t tell me about― you know, that’s when I got orders to go to that ship down in Timbuktu, or here in Florida.





	CB:	Oh, Mayport.



	RB:	Mayport. But, I went to Washington to see a commander who was the navigator on the Oriskany and he was stationed in Washington, and he got me orders to go to naval justice school in Newport, Rhode Island. But he said, “There’s nothing I can do, Bowser, about those orders to France.”

	CB:	Yeah, because that was a big disappointment.



	O:	Where did you end up? Where did your orders change to― what did they change to? You were gonna go to France―

	RB:	Yeah, I was gonna go to an aircraft carrier and I was― but I got the orders to go to naval justice school in Newport, Rhode Island and after that I got orders to go to, I cannot remember now.

	O:	So you weren’t able to use your French?



	CB:	No, no. It was the first time that he was gonna let us go where he was as opposed to— we all, we lived in Saginaw, my mother was a married single parent, because my dad was always on the ship or you know, wherever he had to be.

	KB:	So it was very exciting that we were going to be moving to France and be together, and then that didn’t happen.

	O:	That didn’t work out that way. Alright, let me talk about another part of your life, civilian life, which is a very important part to you obviously ― you are a reverend?

	RB:	Yes.



	O:	You want to talk about that for a bit? How did that come about?





	RB:	Yes, how that came about. You know, the Lord spoke to me one day, I had this unction from the Holy Spirit that I needed to go to seminary, I didn’t know where it came from, that’s the way God does. He takes the most unlikely people to do his work, and certainly I felt I was most unlikely. And the next thing I know, meanwhile I was here in North Carolina and the next thing I know I was at Shaw University Divinity School―

	O:	What year was this?



	RB:	[19]86? Somewhere around there.



	O:	What did you do between [19]65 and [19]86?



	RB:	Oh, I was in the personnel department of Blue Shield of New York.



Personnel, and also as a― I think I gave you one of my resumes that gives you the whole McGuiller. But I think that― did I put a resume in there, Crystal?

	CB:	I’m looking. I’m not sure that this is the resume, though, but we can get that at a later point.

	RB:	But anyway, I worked for Blue Shield and I was a manager for Blue Shield in their correspondence department. That’s what I did.

	O:	Where was that?



	RB:	New York, Manhattan. And then from there I went to work for New York State Department of Labor as an interviewer and then I got promoted to be an employee relations field rep, and I stayed that until the Lord called me to come down here to North Carolina, and I ended up in Shaw University. Of course, down here was where some of my people were, in





Weldon. But that experience at Shaw University was the most exciting experience I ever had in terms of learning and education. I learned how to learn, first of all, and because I was a typist― as you probably know, in a lot of colleges they require that you have your papers typed, and they said―

	CB:	Not by colleges, that’s required, period.



	RB:	Oh, okay. But, anyways, because I was typist, that was no sweat, okay.



But, anyways, I just had a grand time learning how to learn and I ended up becoming summa cum laude in my class and I didn’t know what summa cum laude was until I heard the president of the college saying it as I walked across stage, “summa cum laude.” I didn’t know what it was, so I had to get a dictionary to look it up! It’s highest academic― and sometimes I had to look at my ring, he saw my ring too. But, anyway, that’s the magnificent experience I had. And then I thought the Lord wanted me to be the pastor of a church, so I’m in North Carolina, mind you, and I went around to vacant pulpits, sent my resume out and they’d call me to do what they call a “trial sermon.” They did not want me. And the reason they didn’t want me― I didn’t sound Black enough. I was an Oreo! Black on the outside and White on the inside. And I didn’t know what a hoop was, and then the Black rural church in the South― a hoop is this, [Humming], that’s a hoop. They don’t learn anything because they don’t know anything, and it’s not their fault because that’s how the way it was from slavery time. However, the educated ministry that I was a part





of, one day the Holy Spirit mentioned to me, said, “Bob, stop going around to these churches,” and drew my attention to what is called a five-fold ministry in Ephesians. A five-fold ministry says some are called to be apostles, some are called to be Evangelists, some are called to be preachers, gone down the line, and some are called to be teachers, and that was me. Once that happened, I relaxed and became an outstanding teacher for the Lord because he gave me the credentials to do it.

	O:	And how old were your children when you had this major career change? CB:	Oh, we were adults.

	O:	You were gone?



	CB:	I had children at this point. O:	Okay.

	RB:	I was fifty-six years old when I was called to seminary, yeah. And I left New York State Department of Labor and came down here to North Carolina. You know, the Lord directed my path and when I was―

	O:	Let me ask you, was your wife still alive at that time? Were you still married?

	RB:	No, we were not married. We had divorced.



	O:	You had divorced, okay. So you were living a single life? It was just you.



Your children were grown, gone, right?



	RB:	Yes.



	O:	Okay. So, that gave you an opportunity to think about― reorient your life, what you want to do with the rest of your life?





	RB:	Well, when the Lord had directed my thoughts toward seminary, because you know, as I said, the job I as a―

	O:	Well, what I’m driving at, it wasn’t like you had― you were bringing young children along with you, uprooting them.

	RB:	No, no. But, I was working in New York State Department of Labor as that field rep, Employee Relations Representative on Long Island. [Inaudible 85: 27], free Willy, wheeling― but that’s when the Lord put a change, okay. And that’s how I ended up down here in North Carolina, and that was―

	O:	What did your children think of this? CB:	We didn’t know anything about it.

	O:	You didn’t?



	CB:	No. Not until after he had finished school. He didn’t say anything, at least not to me. Did he say anything to you?

	KB:	No.



	CB:	We didn’t know anything about it. O:	Were your children stunned?

	RB:	I don’t know. They were grown up. They were grown, I was fifty-six years old then.

	CB:	Yeah, we were kind of― I was kind of shocked!



	O:	Right, okay. Well I was wondering how Reverend Bob perceived it― were your children surprised or not, and they have a little different view, I guess, in terms of―





	RB:	All I know is the Lord directed my path.



	O:	Sure, okay. And then this was your calling until today? RB:	Absolutely.

	O:	How active are you now?



	RB:	I have little ministries that I do, okay, and little counseling things but I’ve― since I came to here, with― I live with my daughter who’s my caregiver because I came down because my wife had gotten sick, and Crystal was taking care of her and she passed, okay, three years ago this past October.

	CB:	My parents remarried after twenty-some years of divorce, they were remarried for twenty-some more years.

	RB:	Yeah, okay.



	CB:	Just to help you with― well, you said this and now you’re saying that, yes. O:	So there’s a happy ending to the story?

	RB:	You’re seeing it right here! O:	Yeah, that’s right.

	RB:	You’re seeing it! O:	I can tell!

	KB:	We all participated, we both, and our families, all participated in that reunion when they remarried in North Carolina. I was the best man.

	CB:	I don’t know what I was but I―



	RB:	You was the maid of honor for your mother.



	KB:	A formal, in a way, church wedding, it was fantastic.





	CB:	My mother was like, “I want it like this, we’re having a big wedding!” So we had a big wedding, and my four children were in the wedding. So, it was nice.

	O:	Wonderful, wonderful. Okay, we’ve gone on quite a bit here, I mean it’s almost two hours.

	RB:	Oh it is?



	O:	It’s almost two hours, and I don’t have any problem going on however I would advise you, you ought to write a book.

	CB:	We’ve been trying to go in that direction.



	O:	Because there’s so much we haven’t touched on here, there’s so many other questions I have, you have so many stories and you have such unique perspectives, and the story ends happily after this point certainly, I advise you to write a book.

	RB:	Like they say, if the Lord is willing― this is what they say, Appalachian Mountain folk, if the Lord is willing and the creek don’t rise.

	O:	Because I know we’ve only touched, maybe some issues a little more in depth than others, but there’s so many other things I’m sure we haven’t covered. I don’t know if this is the format and how deep we can go on this, because your life is so interesting, so very interesting.

	RB:	Well, I’m in preparation to gather myself to start putting things, pen to paper.

	O:	Well, this is part of it also.





	CB:	Yes, I’m encouraging him to speak into a tablet of some sort as opposed to having to have to handwrite it. His handwriting isn’t the easiest to read, it is for him, but it isn’t for other people that have to read it.

	O:	Sure, I can understand that. Well, at this point, I think we’re either going to take a long break or we’re going to end the interview at this point, and I want to say thank you so much, this has been so interesting―

	RB:	Really?



	O:	Really! I think he ought to be convinced how interesting his life is, and all the different things that you’ve touched upon throughout your life and all the history you’ve seen or witnessed, and that’s why it maybe would be a good idea for you to get some of that down.

	RB:	Well, thank you sir.



	O:	Reverend Bob, thank you very much. RB:	You’re quite welcome.

	O:	For being here today, it’s been a pleasure. RB:	My pleasure.

	O:	Absolute pleasure.







[End of interview]







	Transcribed by:	Laura Tamayo, November 29, 2021 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, December 17, 2021 Final edited by:	Sandra Romero, January 3, 2022