AAHP 017C; Reaves; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 017C Laura Scott Reaves African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston, Anna Brodrecht, and Deborah Hendrix on August 20, 2010

1 hour, 46 minutes | 61 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Laura Scott Reaves continues her reflections on her career as an educator in Taylor County, as well as on the educators who inspired her when she was going to school. She attributes her success as an educator to “loving people,” and she relates a number of student conflicts that she had to navigate during her career. She also relates her memories of Henry R. Jerkins, Jr., the principal who served as the namesake of the Black High School in Perry. In the process, she relates the previous schools which were burned over the years, and then discusses a specific moment of White supremacist terrorism that she calls “the Civil War of [19]23.” She also relates some family history, and mentions some of the elders who she learned from over the years.



Keywords: [African American History; Taylor County, Florida; Jerkins High School; Education; Segregation]









































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 017C

Interviewee: Laura Scott Reaves

Interviewer: Marna Weston, Anna Brodrecht, Deborah Hendricks Date: August 20, 2010



	W:	Now, you were born in 1923 is that correct? R:	Uh-huh.

	W:	You was born in 1928? R:	Who me?

	W:	Uh-huh



	R:	Oh, no. I was born in 1919. W:	1919.

	R:	That’s why I’ll be 91.



	W:	That’s right, because you’re one year younger than my grandmother was. That’s right, [19]19. She was 1918.

	R:	Now I shouldn’t turn that out, I’m already—



	W:	“Graduation Standards Going to Soar in Coming Seven Years?” R:	Huh?

	W:	“Graduation Standards,” is that what you were looking for? R:	No, I was looking for the dress rules.

	W:	About the uniforms? R:	Yeah.

	W:	Uh-huh.



	R:	I don’t think they called it “uniform.”



	W:	But they have a dress code. Oh, here it is: “Dress Code Remains Unchanged.” R:	Uh-huh.

	W:	It says—





	R:	Read it.



	W:	Okay, it says, “As of press time”—this is from the back to school edition of the Supplement to the Taco Times, August 2010.

	R:	Mmhm.



	W:	And it reads as follows: “Dress Code Remains Unchanged for 2010-2011. As of press time Tuesday, the standards of ‘dress,’” in quotations, “for Taylor County School District students remained unchanged, and parents are encouraged to contact their student’s principal for additional information. The standard of dress is for all students grades six through twelve. All shirts/blouses must have sleeves. The shirts/blouses must be tucked in the pants/skirts, and of the student’s appropriate size. Only Taylor County School District-approved school logos are allowed on the shirt/blouses, designer logos that are three-by-three, or smaller. Pants and dresses, or skirts to the knee, must be of appropriate size.

Unacceptable dress at school: pants, skirts, dresses that reveal body imprints due to excessive tightness, including spandex type clothing. No shorts, unless to the knee. Dresses/skirts that have splits that would cause them to be too short. No mini dresses slash skirts. Clothing with words, phrases, symbols, pictures, patches, flags, confederate flags, or insignias are prohibited. Exception: Taylor County school district approves school logos, junior ROTC uniforms, Scout uniforms, American flags, and designer logos that are three-by-three or smaller. Pants/jeans worn below the belt-line, spaghetti-strap shirts, tube tops, strapless half-shirts, or halter tops of any type, unnatural hair color, such as pink, blue, et cetera. No bedroom slippers, no athletic cleats. No oversized clothing.”





	R:	That’s better than it was. All right now, you would be surprised to know what it was.

	W:	What was it, just whatever they wanted to do, before? R:	Oh, no. It was terrible!

	W:	Uh-huh.



	R:	That Confederate group— W:	Oh yeah.

	R:	Wearing those shirts. And that Black group beat them up.



	W:	Now when you were going to school, was there a dress code at school?



	R:	No, it wasn’t no dress code, because we was by ourselves. We did what the teacher said. And you better do it, or your momma would find out what. No, here, you couldn’t disgrace her! [Laughter]

	W:	But everybody dressed appropriately?



	R:	Very appropriately. She wouldn’t, mm-mm! She wouldn’t have it. What she would do, she would say you make her ashamed and disgrace her. And boy, she’d put some fire on you here! See Momma just didn’t have that.

	W:	What about the neighbors? Did any of your neighbors have anything to do? R:	No they’d all matter not.

	W:	Mmhm.



R:   You had to go to Sunday school. You had to get ready on Saturday. And you had to respect God’s church. All those type of things. Well, the children go now if they want to.

W:   You had to start getting ready for church on Sunday, on Saturday?







R:

On Saturday. Oh yeah, you got those things ready!

W:

How did you get ready on Saturday to go to church?

R:

How did I get ready on Saturday? Well Momma had done all the washing. You



ironed the clothes. And I was the oldest. I had to help get the others ready. Iron



their shirts and get their socks and things ready. What you need, somewhere to



plug that in, darling?

B:

Yeah, I see one right there. Is that all right, to use that one?

R:

Let’s see—

W:

Oh, I see it—

B:

I’d hate to climb over Marna—

R:

Let me see if there’s one in the bedroom.

W:

Okay.

R:

I might forget things.

B:

[Laughter] Did you hear us talking about that? I was trying to whisper.

R:

No, it’s just a switch. Wonder why did they do that. Or why did I let them do it.

W:

I do see one right here.

R:

Oh, there’s one right over here.

B:

Okay, and there’s one—

R:

Well you might could get this one—

W:

There’s one, right there.

B:

Can you try to pull that one back there? Sorry.

W:

I might actually let you try to pull it. That might work better.

B:

All right. I might have to do some unladylike—





	W:	[Laughter]



	R:	Can you reach it? B:	I think I can.

	R:	Okay



	B:	Yes ma’am, I got it.



	R:	Oh, I’m so glad you could get it.



	B:	Oh, and there’s a big power surger thing back there, too W:	Okay, just don’t set us on fire.

	B:	Okay.



	W:	[Laughter]



	B:	I hope I won’t! [Laughter]. No promises though.



	R:	Well, now I rented a—I said that I wasn’t going out there, and interfere, but I went and made the bowl, after they had had this big old whatever they were doing.

	W:	You’re talking about today?



	R:	[Laughter] Well, I went there and I told them it wasn’t worth it. That we need to do something, and so whatever it was, they would put it in the paper, and that I had gone out there and talked to them about it. We just, we didn’t have it. Jerkonians couldn’t do all of that, and what we did, they cut that part out completely. There was a lot of different ones angry about it, but they had to cut that part of that program out.

	R:	And then they came up with—they got all the, some of the mothers and they got what you just read. Would you like to have that paper?

	W:	Oh, well I wouldn’t want to take your only copy.





	B:	We can take a photo.



	W:	Yeah, we can take a picture of it. That’s true.



	R:	Well this isn’t—that’s one of the main things. Now this one here, you got all the buses. I didn’t know we had so many buses in a small town! [Laughter] But I read it in there, said, “Oh, all these buses!” Taylor County must have grown a little bit. Now I worked in—the first place, and I got that certificate—I worked in Dixie County. And later on, Dixie County is in out there I worked in Shady Grove, a little place you call it. And then they moved me from Shady Grove to the place up in Old Town. You know where Old Town is.

	W:	Yes, ma’am.



	R:	And Old Town, I worked up there a while. But after a while, the war started, after [inaudible 7:33]. They got to close school down, and I had to stay out there in Old Town and register the veterans. And after that, I got dissatisfied.

	W:	So you must have been—



	R:	And I told Momma I was coming on. W:	You were in your early twenties?

	R:	I was dissatisfied about the bus. And I said to Momma, I said, “I’m coming home.” So I came home, and the superintendent was named Mister Reddister. And I went to his house one day. I wanted to come home, and when I got there, he said, “What’s your name?” I said, “My name is Laura Scott.” “Laura Scott? Do you know Harris Scott?” I said, “Yes, I know him! He’s my granddaddy.” “He’s my nurse,” he said. [Laughter] That was back there, must have been early [19]40s. [Laughter] He said, “He was my nurse.” So he knew my granddaddy and we





didn’t have any problems, getting on, and then later, the lady that was my principle at the Boyd’s school up here, Laughert’s Lumber Company, I had to be the principal there. And that’s where I worked until in [19]65 when they organized kindergarten. Well, they consolidated that school shortly, and then I went back to A&M. And that’s when I got certified in teaching kindergarten. Well I went—they consolidated the school over there—[Laughter] The superintendent told me, say, “You ought to could babysit.” See, they closed down the school, and fired us. [Laughter] And “You ought to could babysit.” So, I had to come home and cry over that. Babysitting. [Laughter] But they sent me out on the yard, but I didn’t know anything about no football, baseball, and all that stuff. Well, time came and I was out there that year. I decided I’d do what they’d done in Tallahassee. Springtime Tallahassee. I decided it was springtime real. Well, the next year, the principal moved me. He sent me to the kindergarten, and the parent got around him, and they wanted me back out there because the children loved me. [Laughter] I said, “Good gracious!” Well, they sent me on to the kindergarten anyway. And then when we got there, Ms. Shirley said that we didn’t look right in there, we looked like two groups. And so, she asked them to partition her room off. And you know she wasn’t that bold, and the principal sitting right there. And the principal said to her, “Shirley you didn’t ask me what I thought about it.” He said, “I like Ms. Reaves”—I’d got married then, I wasn’t a Scott—“I like her certificate, and the parent like her, and I like what they saying.” And then, you don’t really know what you’re doing. You fixing to lose your accreditation. See, I told you I went back and got certified. Well, they had good





teachers now, don’t get me wrong: all the teachers was good. But they didn’t have but one certified in kindergarten, in the kindergarten program. And so, “See now, it move her, and furthermore I like what’s going on over there. I like it.” And so the principal straightened it out, and then the ladies spoiled me. Oh, we all got a homeroom mother’s club. And after we got that homeroom mother’s club, you know what that meant. That meant we worked together.

	W:	Okay.



	R:	Yeah. And by the time we had Halloween, those people was learning to draw the shapes and do a lot of those little things that kindergarteners love to do. And then we got them the numbers and different things, and our stick work, and then we got some scissors, and we decided that we’d cut out those alphabets. We do a lot of little things kindergarten—little people love to do. Well, when they sent me in there, they gave me a lot of children from the country and a lot of those right around there—as many as they can procure. Well, I had to stay there while the others’ parent could take them home from kindergarten. Well, I had to stay there with those children until 3:30. When the high school turned out, they could ride the bus home. And after that time, I decided I wouldn’t let them go loose. We stayed around the table and we would enjoy ourselves. All kind of puzzles, after we learned all our numbers and things like that, we decided to get the time those little puzzles you know? And work the time and all those things like that. I had no trouble after it, none at all.

	W:	Do you talk to a lot of—





	R:	Now, they didn’t right, though. Because those people that got hold to that group of children that I had to spend the day with working, they took that group from me and sent me that other group that somebody had given some training. Well, I didn’t do that, they did. So I just had a good time.

	W:	I think Deborah’s having some problems with the plug.



	R:	Oh, I had a good time with those ladies. What can I help you do honey? W:	You might need to turn a light on on the wall to make that work.

	R:	We have more plugs over here. It’s one right down there



	B:	And we could, do you want to plug an extension cord off of?



	R:	And then it’s one right there. After they put these last ones in, I understood electricity a little better. [Laughter]

		B:		[Laughter] Oh no, did they have to come and re-do all the electricity? R:	That was my porch and I had flowers on it.

	W:	Oh, okay.



	B:	Oh!



	R:	And I wanted my flowers inside.



	B:	Look at that! So this was your front door. This used to be the porch, right here? R:	That was the porch.

	B:	Look at that! Oh! You wouldn’t know it looking at it. You wouldn’t know it used to be outside.

	W:	That’s what we call back light. That’s just to make everything even when you sit there. So that won’t be in your face, it’ll be behind you.

	R:	Do I need to move this chair?





	B:	I don’t think so.



	H::	No, no, no, it’s fine where you are. R:	I can move this chair

	W:	No, no she wants you right where you are. H:	No, no, no, you’re fine

	W:	She wants you to stay there.



	B:	Because I think this light has to be almost directly behind you. H::	It’s just going to light up the background. It looks a little dark.

	B:	See you said you learned a lot about electricity, and now you’re gonna learn a lot about TV.

	R:	No, well my grandson majored in it. B:	Really?

	W:	Oh.



	R:	Yeah, he’s up there in Tallahassee, now. B:	Oh, nice

	R:	He works at the Memorial Hospital. He’s there as one of the electricians. That’s a big old place. You’ve been to Tallahassee.

	W:	Yes, ma’am.



	R:	Well that’s where he’s working at. B:	That’s nice.

	R:	He was a little, little thing. I wasn’t born, though. [Laughter] Sometimes he just—I didn’t want him in the electricity. I was afraid of it. I didn’t want him in it, but he kept on talking and whining until his momma let him have it.





	B:	It’s a very lucrative job because we will always need electricians to help us with our homes.

	R:	That’s what I tell these children about mathematics too. B:	It’s true.

	R:	Yeah, I started out in mathematics. B:	Oh, did you?

	R:	After something happened over at A&M. I had gone to St. Augustine, and when I finished down there in that little school—

	B:	Okay. Is that Bethune-Cookman? R:	In St. Augustine.

	B:	Okay.



	R:	Now, two years down there. And then, after I went to A&M, you see, the dean sent for me and he said to me, he says, “Scott, you can—If you want to, you can finish this year. You have a lots of credits.” And I agreed to it, instead of going on, getting my mathematics.

	B:	Oh, okay



	R:	So that’s how I got out of it. [Laughter] B:	All right.

	R:	But I got—mathematic teachers have no—child—trouble getting a job. They really don’t.

	B:	That’s true.





	R:	And I try to encourage all of those- I had a niece to come ‘round with that thing round her neck in mathematics, but she didn’t want that. But nobody want to teach, but them children gonna have to have teachers!

	B:	Yeah.



	W:	Oh, please your chair right there. R:	Hm?

	W:	You moved your chair [Laughter] B:	Here, I’ll help you out.

	R:	I’m just talking and don’t know what I’m doing!



	B:	Here we go. You can sit back down. Sit right here R:	I’m supposed to sit in it? [Laughter]

	W:	Yes, ma’am.



	B:	Yeah.



	R:	[Laughter]



	B:	You’re gonna know everything you’ve ever wanted to know about TV when we leave here. [Laughter] You’re gonna know how to set up lights, and where to put the chairs—

	R:	Oh, I won that computer. B:	You won it?

	R:	Yeah!



	B:	Where?



	R:	See, what it was, they was having adult education out at vo-techs, and my husband and I was going out there. We was gonna learn something about it. Well





it in and we were doing pretty good at that time—‘course I about lost it because I stopped fooling with it. But my boy something went wrong with it, and he carried the piece to Tallahassee. They had it fixed and when he got it, went back for it, the place had closed down and had been moved somewhere else. And we don’t know what happened to the other piece of it.

	B:	Oh no! So it doesn’t work?



	R:	It’s good, it’s good, but they didn’t, that don’t work, it— W:	Ms. Reaves, she needs to mic you.

	B:	Oh, okay. She’s going to mic you up. W:	She needs to mic you up.

	H::	I’m going to just put this microphone on you, okay? R:	Put something on?

	H::	Yeah, I’m just going to clip right to your blouse, is that okay? R:	Oh, on my blouse?

	H::	Yes ma’am. Let’s see here.



	B:	It’s a little microphone that picks up your voice, so that the camera can hear your voice.

	R:	I see them on television. I never had one before.



	H::	Let’s see here. I’m going to put this—you’re probably going to forget that you’re— R:	Ooh, I need to sit straight

	W:	Oh, no, no don’t, you’re fine. Don’t, don’t move.



	B:	Do you want to show it to her real quick and show her where the mic is?







H::

Yeah, I’m going to pick up your voice right there. You know what those are.





R:

You’ve seen them on TV.



Yeah, I’ve seen it on—

H::

That’s what they are.

B:

Look how tiny it is. It’s really small.

H::

Okay. Well, let’s see. I’m going to just do this, okay? So just excuse me for a





R:

second.



I’m handicapped.

H::

You are?

R:

I don’t usually tell nobody, though.

B:

In what way?

R:

My ears.

B:

Oh, okay. So are we talking loud enough?

R:

I heard you! Everything you saying.

B:

Okay.

R:

Because I have it.

B:

Because you have your hearing aids, that’s right. [Laughter] Am I talking too





R:

loud?



No.

B:

It’s about right?

R:

Yeah.

B:

Okay.

H::

Okay, I’m trying to hide this cord because it’s going to stick out like a sore thumb.





W:  Well people know that we have to do that stuff, so it’ll be fine. All right! R:  If you want to know more about Taylor County, you can take that part. W:  Thank you.

B:  Yeah let me take—I can take a photo of it, and then we can put it on the computer and have it for our files and that way you can—

R:  Oh, he has—that’s the main part, about the school— B:  This part?

R:   That’s school, all of that’s school



	H::	Can you just hold that right there for a second? Just hold it just like that. R:	Just hold this like this?

	H::	Just so I can just wipe this, just like that.



	W:	Toward the camera. Just like that. What she’s doing is called a “white balance,” to make sure the whites all look the same, and that you don’t look blue when they take the video. This will make sure that your color is correct, but if we don’t do that then you might end up looking blue or purple—

	B:	Or red. [Laughter]



	W:	In the video. Yeah, so they have to do this white balance. B:	Hold on just a second.

	W:	So back in the day, when I was starting, I remember the College of Journalism, we always used to have to do that. But I thought these new cameras were automatic white balance.

	H::	They are, but this just makes it better.





	W:	Okay. So it takes about thirty seconds. She’ll come and grab it from you, and we’ll be ready to go.

	H:	Oops.



	W:	Got the white balance? Right, so Mrs. Reaves what I’m going to do is I’m just going to do a brief opening, you know, just to set the scene of where we are, and introduce you. And then we’ll talk a little bit about your career as a teacher, as an educator, here in Taylor County. And then we’ll talk about growing up here in Taylor County a little a bit. And then we’ll talk about the Jerkins historic marker, the reunion for this weekend.

	R:	Jerkins never did teach me no school.



	W:	No, no, that’s right, you were at Boyd, but we’re going to be there this weekend. [Laughter] Okay. So, just let me know, Deborah, when you want to start.

	B:	Do you want me to take that, so that you don’t have to hold it?



	R:	No, it’s, that’s just a old sale paper. I usually tear ‘em up and put ‘em in the trash.



I didn’t know I had put it up with that.



	B:	Oh, okay. Well, we can help you tear it up in a minute. R:	Okay. [Laughter]

	W:	Alrighty, it’s August 20th, 2010. This Marna Weston for the Sam Proctor Oral History Program, in Perry, Florida, at the home of Mrs. Laura Scott Reaves. Mrs. Reaves, thank you very much for letting us come and visit with you today. I’d like to talk to you about your history as an educator. What was it about teaching that was so meaningful for you that you were a teacher for such a long time?





	R:	Well, the greatest thing I can think about: I loved people. I had a teacher named Sarah Roundtree, and she took up so much time with us. She would help us with our ABC’s and everything, so I just loved school. I loved people.

	W:	What subject did Ms. Roundtree teach?



	R:	Ms. Roundtree was my sixth grade teacher. W:	Okay.

	R:	I think when she took up at town with us we were neighbors. We lived not far from her house, and we would have a chance to go to her house, and she took up a lot of time then. But when I got to school, she taught me in sixth grade.

	W:	And what was the name of that school?



	R:	The name of that school? Hmm, what was the name of that school? [Laughter] They call it—they call it whatever they want to call it. [Laughter]

	W:	It was just the schoolhouse.



	R:	I think they called it Perry Black School. I can remember that, and—something like that.

	W:	Why was school so important to you?



	R:	Why it was important to me? I wanted to be like Ms. Sarah Roundtree. I wanted to go to school. I wanted to dress like her. In other words, they would have you feeling like you’re important, and you can be something great, and things like that. And most of the kids that you notice from the Jerkins school now, they’re doing better than those that won’t listen.

	W:	So the Jerkins school, which is here in Perry, or was here in Perry, that was an important part of the community, wasn’t it?





	R:	Yes, it was, and the parents usually worked together, and you had to. “Do this!” You ever heard of obeying? You better obey. And they made everybody feel like you can be great, you can do something. We have some great kids now, different places. Some out in Texas, we have Dr. Hughes out there, and we have one over here in, just finished somewhere out there in Ft. Lauderdale, and we had one that died in Washington that’s working with that home demonstration agencies out there. He died last year. But they tell me, “I’m retiring.” I don’t want them to retire. It seem like I want them to stay young. But one of when of them just told me one day, said, “Ms. Reaves, I’ll be seventy my next birthday. I’m ready to retire.” I said “No, no, no, you can’t retire!” [Laughter] But, a lot of ‘em retiring, though. Out of those first children I taught.

	W:	How does it make you feel that students that you taught went on and became teachers and had good careers?

	R:	Well, I felt all right, because first thing I did, we would—I loved the parents, and they loved me. When I was out there at Boyd, once a year they would always give us something special. They’d have a special day for us. All the children loved us, and different things like that. And it wasn’t but four of us out there. And we just had to work out there. Finally, we had a superintendent named Alton Wentworth. Alton Wentworth, when he was superintendent, he came out there one day and he looked around. He looked, he looked strange like wondering what? What, what, what, what? And he says, “We going do better than this.” And you know the next week, I don’t know where he got them from, but he sent us some school benches. We didn’t have to sit on those benches with no backs on





them. He sent them out there, and got us the new ones. And the next thing he did for us, he put lights in that school. That Mr. Wentworth was a good man. Not only that, he loved people. I knew something had gone wrong with him the way he was looking. I know I hadn’t done anything wrong, the other teachers hadn’t, but he was watching those benches with no backs on them. Children writing in their lap! But he straightened it out.

	W:	Who were those other three teachers that were at the school?



	R:	Rossa Ganis. Rossa has passed on. Dorothy Green has passed on. And Charlotte Maughan has passed on. Most of my schoolmates and teachers that I worked with gone on. I said Lord—I get up in the morning, I think, I say, “You give me a long life.” And I’m still—I was still doing a lot of work, but here lately it seemed like to me, I don’t know—only, I can put it, every year I get where I can do less. [Laughter] Get tired! They done sent somebody out here to help me now.

	W:	Well you’ve had such a rich and long-lasting career. You’ve seen so many changes. When you were teaching, and when you went to school, the schools were segregated. Blacks went to school with Blacks, and the Whites went to school with Whites. What is your impression of that difference, that the school used to be like?

	R:	No, don’t know no different then. W:	Yeah?

	R:	No, not after that first term, now. When that man told me that, “You can babysit.” [Laughter] We used to [inaudible 28:15] told us they had to close down the Kirbo School. We didn’t have a job. But when the government, or somebody else,





came over, they had to get us all a letter and tell us to come back. And then, when I went back, he sent me on the yard, and said I can babysit. [Laughter] And the next year, they had to send me to kindergarten, because they didn’t have another teacher that had certified in kindergarten education. And that’s where I really got spoiled. Everybody I loved there, they loved me. They would do little things, you know. I didn’t even have to sponsor a party. They had the parties, and they—one of them went to my husband. When I retired in [19]82, she went to my husband and told him that I had taught all her children, and they were doing fine. And he said she was absolutely crying. I probably had told her that it was him, because I had at least four more years on my certificate. That would have had me working forty-eight years, but he kept saying that he done been in the Army. He had been collecting mail on the railroad track before they stopped that mail from coming through here on the train. And then he went to the post office and put in twenty-seven years there. But he just kept on and kept on ‘til I said— Momma told me, “If he say you all going get along good, you go retire with him.” And so, I retired. But, they didn’t want me to retire. They gave me a nice little package, and whatever. You see, the house is packed with so much of this, that, and the other now! [Laughter] It just came from the different children and their parents.

	W:	Do you think that, even though there was so much love shown at you at the schools when you graduated—when you retired in [19]82, back when the schools were segregated, what was it about the schools that were special to you then?

	R:	Special?





	W:	Mmhm.



	R:	All right? Loving people. I loved those little boys and girls. I loved their parent. In fact, I didn’t have to spank. Well see, I think I spanked one child. That’s when I was on the yard, trying to teach physical ed. See, this little fellow had a ball, he get the bat. He was a good batter. Oh, he’d bat that ball! Sometimes he’d bat it way out in the cornfield, it was next to the school. When everybody was whining and crying “I wanna bat, I wanna bat,” he’ll say, “You run.” And he would bat it and they would run, but they got to where they didn’t want to do it that way, and I say, “Jean, now you bat that ball and you run it.” And you know he turned around and told me something ugly! I say, “Jean I’m gonna have to send you to the principal office.” “He not gonna do anything else, he don’t whip children now.” I said, “Oh, my goodness! What is he saying?” I said, “No, I’m not going to send you to the principal office, I’m fixing to carry you.” And when I got—carry him to the principal office, he was the most surprised little fellow you’d want to see. He was around sixth grade, almost tall as I was. I wented in, I said—what was the principal’s name—Mr. Scott from around the cellar. I said, “Mr. Scott, will you hand me that strap over?” And he hand it to me. And I took that boy hands, and I whooped that little part he sit on real good. And you never had any problem with him out there on that ball field since. No, I whipped him good. And the principal sitting there looking at him. Principal, he talked with me later. He say,”You not afraid?” I say no. He wouldn’t have done at—had he been over at Curbow.

Curbow was the name of the school that we was working, and then it closed down. And when we had to go over to Lafayette High School, no, he wouldn’t





have that. And so, he thought he could a bye doing it here, but I wanted to prove to him that he couldn’t. He said, “Well I’m one that appreciate it.” Sure had no problem. In fact, I didn’t have no trouble with any of them. There was a boy named Bird. The family was named Bird’s. And he didn’t think he needed to get his lesson. He got it when he got ready and he didn’t get it. So, when time to give him a grade, I gave him what he had earned. And he stood around and he cried. He cried, that boy cried. He said, “Ms. Reaves, see, I know I treated you wrong. I know I should have gotten my lesson. But how can I face my daddy? I can’t face my daddy with this grade!” And he cried and cried, but my heart wouldn’t listen, but when he walked out that door he said, “I’m going kill myself.” I could listen then! I went to the door and got that child and sent somebody and told the bus driver to wait. I called him back in and I talked to him. He begged my pardon again. He says, “I know I didn’t do right, I know, but I can’t face my daddy.” I say, “Yes, you can. You can face your daddy, because I’m going keep this card. I’m going to give you some more work to do.” I gave him some more work to do, and it was beautiful. I gave him work that he had to—those pictures, and those islands, and different things. He had to draw them, and fix it pretty. That was a sixth grade class. See this boy must have been twelve or thirteen. But no more trouble did I have out of that boy. And I believe, to this day, the way he was crying, the way he was begging my pardon, that he was going and kill himself to keep from facing his daddy. Because I don’t know what Mr. Bird was like, but he said he couldn’t face his daddy. But he got my heart, I can tell you that. Well, he couldn’t at first, until he said “I’m going kill myself.” I don’t know what that boy





wanted to do. He might have went—he might have done it. But I didn’t take that chance. I took a chance of helping him. Oh, another one, I had done the same thing! [Laughter] You remember in Gainesville, when I made that failing grade in economics? My brother said, “I wouldn’t be begging him.” I said, “Yeah, but I want my certificate! I want my certificate!” [Laughter] I wrote back and thanked him first, for what he had done for me, and told him that I was sorry that I had made this grade, and would he give me some more work please? [Laughter] I had it passing back to me! You know, I never thought of that until now. Yes, but I had a good time teaching classes, even until now. And I think that Eugene was the only one I really had to set fire to. But now at the Boyd school, a girl told a boy something ugly and he spanked her. I had to pull him off, and he went into it and was beating on anything like that. But when his mother came, I was combing the little girl’ hair. She was still crying. And she looked at me, she said, “Did my son do her like that?” I said, “I wish he didn’t.” And she say, “Well, he’ll never hit another woman long as he live.” So I don’t know what she did, but I know I got him. And I had to hold him, he broke loose and got her again, but that time there was a nice little paddle on the bench there and I paddled him off of her and he ran home. See, the school was right in the community, he didn’t have to do nothing but run ‘round a corner and get to his house. That’s the way it was out at Boyd. But other than that, I never had any problems with no parent at all.

W:  Do you think that was good for the kids, to be right in the community where they grew up and have the school right next door? Was that the best way for them to go to school?





	R:	I would think so. I think community schools are good because we didn’t have any trouble. Now, when they started something or other, I don’t know what they started, but anyway, they fixed it so they could have a meal at school. That put more work on us, but one teacher would fix it, a little sandwich or something.

They started that real program under—Roosevelt wasn’t it? I think it was, because he started it. It was shortly after the Depression, after Hoover time. Yeah, that’s—shortly after that, Roosevelt got in and he started that real program. Well we had something like sardines, or something every day. Both of us didn’t have to do all of that. I mean we did it together. Just like Ms. Janice I told you. Ms. Janice passed on, and then we had Ms. Allen. Ms. Allen was there and Dorothy Green, and I’m telling you that we got along good. And we come to Perry sometime with our art and see who could do things like this. And Perry children would’ve beat her. [Laughter] Won most of the prizes! Now I don’t see no problem now. You see what you can do, you can keep them doing something, like those little people out up there in Lafayette. When I had to keep them until 3:30. Keep them doing something. And every morning when I get there they meet me and they say, “What we going do today?” Well, we would make our own glue, and we would have some Kool-Aid jelly—but now you can’t do these extra things like that, unless you do this. You get me? And everybody got their lesson good. Didn’t have any failures. All of them did good. Now, I had one boy that couldn’t do anything, and he loved to say, “Ms. Reaves taught me how to write my name.” But he passed on, the little boy. Paris, he did—he tried.

	W:	This weekend is the dedication of an historic marker—





	R:	What now?



	W:	This weekend is the dedication of the historic marker over at Jerkins High School. What memories do you have of Jerkins as a strong community school?

	R:	Jerkins. Well, Jerkins—we didn’t have our girls messing up, whatever that is. We talked to those girls. Ms. Roundtree and I—she was still teaching when I started teaching. But we would talk to them and let them know that some of them, and other [inaudible 41:07] we let ‘em know they supposed to run from boys! [Laughter] Yeah, no, no, no, no, no, don’t let, unh-uh, don’t let him [sound of hands rubbing together]—and then another thing. At the first starting of Jerkins school, we had the boys on one side of the campus, and the girls on the other side of the campus. And sometimes those little boys would bat the ball over there, run over there and get it and then they’d pull somebody’ ribbon off they head. But Professor Jerkins stopped that. See, I was there when Professor Jerkins was there.

	W:	So you knew him? R:	Yeah.

	W:	What kind of a man was Professor Jerkins like?



	R:	Oh, my goodness! Great man. Professor Jerkins came here, we had no school. The schools, the first one out here, Springhill Black, burn up. Then they used the Hall for a school down the street here, on this same street. And it close enough to Taylor County high school right in there. Well, it burn up. And then, we had a green building. My parent bought land, and the school board would put a building





there. And they put this building over there and we called it the green school. Well, it burn down.

	W:	You had three schools burn down?



	R:	And then—yeah, all them burned! Well, now, Professor Jerkins was here. He, he knew what to do. Rosenwald. Y’all heard of Rosenwald?

	B:	Uh-huh.



	R:	Yeah, he will all his property, everything he had, to the Black boys and girls. Now he did that, and that, we got the last thing that he had. When Professor Jerkins wrote him, and told him that we was in a community where children didn’t have a school, he wrote him back, or whoever was in charge, and told him that he had enough for one more school, probably eight rooms and an auditorium. That’s what he gave us. But he didn’t, until Professor Jerkins got a name for the school. The school didn’t have a name. I think I told you I could hardly tell you the name! No, we didn’t have a name. Because, see, Black boys and girls schools, or whatever you want to call it. Well anyway, when Professor Jerkins got the same lady, Ms. Sarah Roundtree, Alberta, Lily Jones, and some more teachers I might to forget some of their name, to “get together and get me a name for this school, and I want you to do it now, ‘cause I don’t want them to change they mind.” Well, Professor Jerkins, those women got together, and they—some wanted this, some wanted the other, but they all agreed, since he has gone through all of this work, and working up here and getting us a school, we want to name it Jerkins. Jerkins High School. And that’s how it got its name. Jerkins High School. Well, I was in high school, somewhere around ninth or tenth grade, when Jerkins came.





But I soon left there, because I needed about four more hours when Peggy—this girl I told you came from New Jersey, and got me to go with her and take the teacher’s examination. I went the next summer, after getting enough credits to get from Gainesville to get my certificate extended, I went down to St. Augustine. I had chance to go to school and get my certificate extended then. Well, when I went down to St. Augustine, it was really nice down there. We had a teacher named Amy George Dennison that would get on that coastline, and come every summer and live with us. Her name Amy George Dennis from the University of Boston, and that’s where I got my methods in teaching from. All those little silly things we doing. If you this, we’ll do this, and we’ll do that. Make your own glue, you make papers, and you do your own drawing, and how we got them shapes. That’s the first thing children would have to learn anyway in kindergarten. Well we learned those shapes, and then we started shaping those shapes into things. Then after that, we got the letter business going. But anyway that’s where I got all those little extra things to—and you know I started to write the lady in Tallahassee the other day. I said, “If I do that, my sisters will have a fit.” But this lady that—I can’t think of her name, but they had her name in the paper, and they had her school had failed. Did you read that about Tallahassee school?

	W:	No, ma’am



	R:	Well there’s something in there this week about it. Wakulla, with the small school done walked over the school in Tallahassee. Well okay, I wanted to write and tell her I wanted to come down there. Come there and help her to bring that schoolhouse to her school next year. Because I know what Ms. Dennison had





meant in my life. Sheila Roundtree had me when I was little, but Ms. Dennison had me after I was grown. Now let me tell you something—you asking me questions, I need to hush! [Laughter]

	W:	Oh no, no. I’m enjoying listening to you.



	R:	Well, Ms. Dennison got me in there, and we had to take methods—general methods—and then we had to take a method course in reading, and all those type of thing. And then we had that mathematic. Now, when she got me in mathematic, I was pitiful. Because when she told me to go to the board with a very simple problem, like subtract—seem like if I remember it good, was to take nine from something. Anyway I had to take that some—

	W:	What’s wrong?



	R:	I had to subtract that nine, but I did it in a way that it was wrong. I wanted to say carry, subtract something and then carry it over. Mm-mm. And she said, “But you can’t do that!” And honey, she straightened me out about that number business. And it made me love numbers. Now that was just a little bit—I don’t know what. I been up there to visit my children, but I don’t know whether she still living or not, but I know she’s pretty old if she’s living, but she meant so much to us. And then another thing, that school lost its accreditation, and when it lost its accreditation it was named Florida Memorial, Florida Normal. Well they lost its accreditation and you don’t know what Florida State did for us. You don’t know? [Laughter] Florida State says, “I like”—this is education, whoever’s in charge—Colin English. Did you all ever hear of Colin English? Colin English was superintendent Florida State school at that time, when I was in the Dunedin aling. Well anyway, he





decided that he didn’t want that school out. And they got together and they gave that school the money that it needed to keep its accreditation. Now Florida State did that. And so that school went on and on, until the president—Sarah Blocker and President Colin died. And for some reason, this Baptist group got together, and they consolidated Florida Memorial and Florida Normal, and that’s that big school down there at Miami now. So that’s where it is. And that Florida Memorial just, just going down, I guess. Anyway, it’s owned by the Baptist group. That’s, that’s it. So my really work, all that little funny stuff you do to little people, come out of—from Amy George Dennison, from Boston. And she come down every summer, and spend a while in the dormitory and around and teaching her.

	W:	I just have one more question for you. R:	Okay.

	W:	This is a question about when Jerkins High School closed. So, I would like to know do you remember where you were when you heard about Jerkins closing, and how did people react when they heard that Jerkins was closing.

	R:	Closing. Oh, this—when I went out there and talked to them that was the board, I had retired then. [Laughter] I just said, “Now you know, I need to go, because I can help those Black boys, and I can help those others.” But whatever I said that night, they liked it. But now, when I first heard about closing—we had a teacher here named Eartha Portier, and she came from Seminole County. She was the first physical ed teacher the board ever hired. You see, you had to do your own whatever you do with your children, it’s something you call recess. Well, Poitier had the children, the girls, to put on some kind of shorts. Well, one of the girls is





a member of Church of God and Prophecy, and they didn’t let them wear this that and the other. So, she went to one of the missionaries and told her about it, that she wanted her to wear some shorts and she wanted her to do this and that. In other words, she thought this woman was going to tell her “Don’t, you shouldn’t.” But she didn’t. Sister Cooks told her, “If that teacher think you should wear those shorts for your physical ed class, you get in ‘em! Now you can put a skirt or something over you, like that.” But they taught obedience. And we didn’t have any trouble. Even those boys knocking the ball over there. Running over and doing something they had no business, they stopped that. And then another thing, you see these boys going around here with all that funny look, and their britches way down there, showing their underclothes? Homer Smith wouldn’t have. See Jerkins had gone on by twenty-five years, but he’s buried here.

	W:	Homer Smith?



	R:	Uh-huh.



	W:	Okay, now who is—?



	R:	His son comes every now and then to visit his grave. His son is named Dr. Jerkins, and he’s a doctor in Philadelphia. But he comes just to look at his daddy’s grave sometimes. And the last time, Johnny Bell told me that one came with a grandson. She had never seen a grandson. But they still go and look at their daddy grave. He buried here. Well, Jerkins, the girls, they obeyed us. And I think I told you I think I told you we didn’t have girls making mistakes. No. No, no. And then another thing our boys need to know: that these rules and regulations that governs that type of situation is still in the law book. They didn’t move them.





Them boys can still go to prison. They can still do this, that, and the other. And now right there in Greensville, when Jeddy Merit was principal, something happened like that to a girl and she had to stay home, the boy stayed too! He went home got him a job so he could take care of what had he done. So I don’t know. Jeddy Merit passed on, he died. But we controlled them. I mean, they obeyed pretty good. We don’t use the word “control!” [Laughter]

	W:	Thank you very much.



	R:	You didn’t ask about the first school! W:	Well, why don’t you tell me about it?

	R:	[Laughter] You asked about my school! Well, the first school was out here in Springhill, out there where the graveyard is.

	W:	Oh yeah, that’s right.



	R:	Yeah, that’s where it was— W:	Now, which burned down.

	R:	And then that’s the first school, was in a church, and it was one of the first schools that got burned down. But did you ever know why all this burning was done?

	W:	I was going to ask you that. Why were all—why did three schools in a row burn?



	R:	Well, and then this mill was in one of our fifth grade books. I found it, and when I found the mill, that big old mill owned by Burton and Swartz, I went to Momma with that book. I said, “Momma look it here, they got our mill in the book!” And so Mr. Burton and Mr. Swartz had come to Perry. And when they came to Perry they brought trained engineers, and hey brought them in here from Louisiana. Well,





we had one race of people saying, “Let this other race work on our farm, and we’ll work in the mill.” Well, Mr. Burton said, “We brought our engineers with us, and they are already trained.” N.L. Smith, Ike Hampton, James Mooreland, Cornelius Rhodes, and some more other names I can’t think of. But they brought them trained already, but they wanted them to move them, put them on the farm, and they wouldn’t do it. And when they did that, that brought the civil war of [19]23. I wasn’t but about four years old then, but Momma said when my Uncle Will and all of them was leaving—leaving this town—that I screamed. I wanted Uncle Will to get off of that big thing. I didn’t know what the train was. I wanted him out of there. In other words, my brother and I was the only grandchildren, and we wanted him to stay here. We didn’t want him to get on that with them other people. They all got on, and they went on to New Jersey. Well, a lot of farming, you know a lot of farming going in New Jersey. Yeah, somebody say that it, that one half of the Atlantic Ocean is because of having all that farm work going on, and that’s—they knew how to farm. So, a lot of them left the company, and left them people, and so they decided to call Washington, and they sent them troops in here. And things got better, got lot better, but we still didn’t have a school.

	W:	You call it the “civil war.” R:	Hm?

	W:	You called it the “civil war in 1923”— R:	It was a civil war.

	W:	In what way was it a civil war?





	R:	It was a civil war because it was a fighting in the county where they lived, everybody lived, and they were fighting! And some was running and some was fighting! [Laughter]

	W:	You said you were only four years old. Did your mother tell you about it? R:	About four, because I was born in 1919.

	W:	Okay, so do you remember most of that, or are you telling what your mother said?

	R:	I don’t remember too much about it. I just can remember my Uncle Will—see, we the only grandchildren they took up so much time with us, and I remember him— in his arms, and when he gave me back to my momma and got on that train, I remember crying. And that’s all I remember about it, other than being afraid. That something gonna happen to me, something like that. Now you very afraid during times like that!

	W:	What made you afraid?



	R:	Somebody going to be afraid. W:	Why were you afraid?

	R:	Afraid they’ll come burn your house down! Burn the church down, burn the school down.

	W:	Who was doing all this burning down? Who was doing that?



	R:	[Laughter] Well, we had one group running, and one group burning. So now, I’m gonna let you figure that one out!

	W:	Well I might know, but it’d be better for me to hear you tell me. Who was running and who was burning?





	R:	No! They might get in behind me! [Laughter] I talked with one of the ladies, Ms. Litman, that her husband was the sheriff here. And I went to this church over here, and she was a member of that church. They’d have church on Saturday. Well, she said something to me. She said, “Did you know Harry Scott?” I said, “My granddaddy.” I said “Who are you?” She said, “I’m Ms. Litman, you don’t remember”—she called her husband name. I said, “I remember you. I remember you. I was afraid of it.” And she said, “Why were you afraid of it?” I was just so scared of her! [Laughter]

	W:	Was he one of the ones burning, not running?



	R:	No, no I wouldn’t say it—he was—he didn’t—I don’t think he was—I don’t think, I think, I don’t—let’s don’t talk about that one! [Laughter]

	W:	Okay. We’ll talk about something different.



	R:	Yeah, so many things happened, right here. We talked about that Rose—, Rose Hole—

	W:	Rosewood?



R:  One is Rosehead, and the other “Rose”-something. Well, it’s good now. You can say some good things. Did you know they don’t care what you look like, you can buy where ever you want to live in Taylor County?

W:   It hasn’t always been like that?



	R:	No, sir! And it start with one of the men that was judge, Butler. That street over there named after him.

W:   Byron Butler?





	R:	Byron Butler. Well, what happen is they had a house on Jefferson Street, and this house was up for sale. And nobody bought it, nobody wanted it. Then there came a race man wanted it, and they wouldn’t let him have it.

	W:	A race man?



	R:	Something they call Ku Klux or somebody wanted to get in behind, but believe me, when Judge Butler spoke out, them people quieted off. And did you know that man died about four weeks ago? He bought that house long time ago, and he lived on Jefferson Street. And he said, “If you wanted that house, you should have bought it.” Now, if you got some money and want to buy a house, you can buy it anywhere you want to buy it in Taylor County. See, everything is not bad. Now I think they living all out here and they living wherever they want to live, if they got money to buy it. So, they seem to be doing pretty good over there at that White school too. But, we have some children that have been taught the wrong thing, and this, that, and the other, and they don’t want to obey certain other teachers. But these boys and girls got to obey them teachers. Like that, you read the dress code.

	W:	Yes, ma’am



	R:	And they, some of them was fussing about that. But when I went over there, and got to the school board meeting that night, never heard anything else about it.

	W:	Did you personally know Judge Butler?



	R:	I knew Judge Butler. Not, you know, I didn’t about too much. I Judge Murphy. Judge Murphy, my sister told him, say Judge Murphy, Juanita, she told him, said, “My daughter is finishing law in Miami, and you going have to introduct her





into the Bar.” And he told her, “Bring her on, bring her on.” But when he got the letter that he had to do, he was so surprised! But he went right on and kept his word. Yeah, he’s, he’s, he’s pretty good fellow. Never heard nothing about him. No, he’s a good fellow, it just, it just seemed like he want some peace. Judge Butler was kind of the same way. And we had, when we had the first undertaker put here. The undertaker then buried everybody. One undertaker, and he told the other undertaker that wanted to bury some people that he couldn’t do it. And it kept on ‘til they run him out of town. They run him to—and he went to live in Detroit.

	W:	What was his name?



	R:	But his baby cried. And he wrote to Judge Bay and told him, “I’m coming home. I haven’t hurt anybody, and I’m coming home. My baby want me to come home. she cries for me.” And that’s the same name we got over in Evans Funeral Home. Evans came home, and when he came home, guess what he did? You don’t know what Evan did? He plumbered the town. That’s the work he was doing in Detroit—Michigan. He came back here, and they hired him. And when he got the town plumbered, they wouldn’t hire him no more. He was a very old man then, but his son, Lauper’s company hired him to put the plumbering down in—his son, to put the plumbering down in Boyd, where I was working. He hired him, and they’re—of course, both of them, he’s gone now, but the business is still being run over there by one of his grandsons.

	W:	Do you know the grandson? R:	Do I know him?





	W:	You know of him, but do you know him?



	R:	Oh, I know all of them! He had a big home down here, not far from that place I told you the school was. He had a great big home down there. Two men burned it down. They burn up everything!

	W:	Now you’ve talked about this burning. That’s the third or fourth time. Who was doing all this burning?

	R:	[Laughter] Well one group was running, the other group was burning. So, I’m gonna let you figure it!

	W:	[Laughter] So I got to figure it out.



	R:	[Laughter] No, you better not, or they might get me tonight! That’s what we were afraid of. We all was afraid. And the most of the people move up in here around the Peacock. You see the Peacock store? It fell down the other day. It’s a place open in town across from the old post office. That big building fell last year, but it was a Peacock store. Peacock, and behind it, they had a great big hotel. And then, there was Bludwer drug store up there, Bludver, and then Casswell. His store was there. And then there was Verine. Those people wanted peace more than anything in the world! And most of those people who lived in town, moved up in this community where they wouldn’t be far from them. Okay. Well, everything, they good. Everywhere you go, you going find some good people.

Those people was very good. One of them was so good, she told Cordelia, Cordelia on down at that lodge, Cordelia’s lodge, Heroines of Jericho. She said, “Make all of your women Heroines of Jericho.” A heroine of a Jericho will not hurt anybody else. And they didn’t. No they didn’t, mm-mm. They wouldn’t let you,





nobody hurt you now. But Mr. Swartz kept that mail going, and things quieted down. My daddy didn’t go nowhere. He said, “Nobody bothering me, I’m not bothering anybody.” So he stayed here. They taught him to grade lumber, and so that’s why I’m here.

	B:	Do we have time for more questions? R:	Okay, time out.

	B:	How’s the tape doing?



	H:	Well, we have ten more minutes on this tape, but—



	B:	I’ve got some questions. I’d be interested to hear more, the stories that your grandmother told you. Do you want to—

	R:	My grandmother? B:	Mmhm.

	R:	About school?



	B:	About anything. About the way the old South used to be, or—



	R:	Well the only thing, them that died in [19]38 there, somewhere down there, name was Elizabeth Taylor. Elizabeth Taylor loved her people so good until she told them to take up her back up there and bury her where she was a slave. That was one thing, that—now, those people was good to her. When she died, they had to take her back to Sherman, and bury her by those people that owned her. That’s where body is resting now.

	B:	Where is Sherman?



	R:	And she was one of those that told me about the county. She and Ms. Cordelia.



Cordelia, no, Cordelia had run away and hadn’t come back. Well, this woman





told me about Mr. Perry, the roads—no hard roads—and the farms, and all those type of things. And out here, people got along pretty good, she said. But she went back, and her body is resting up there with that people that raised her when she was a little girl.

	B:	Where is Sherman? R:	Hm?

	B:	You said she’s in Sherman now. Where is Sherman?



	R:	Sherman; 221, go out there, to Sherman is in Greenville B:	Oh, it’s in Florida.

	R:	Yeah, yeah, it’s about ten miles this side of Greensville. B:	Okay.

	R:	That’s where Sherman is. And her body is wherever they are. They went up there, they all went and carried the body up there, and this man that this Elizabeth Taylor had nursed. He got his gun. Because he didn’t know why so many people was coming in there, so naturally he’d want to be protected. But the same undertaker, Evans, ran ahead of them, and said, “Elizabeth is dead! And she want to be buried with her master and her mistress!” “Oh! That’s my nanny!” he said. [Laughter] “That’s my nanny! Bring her on here!” And you know what?

When everybody left, they had some meeting, whatever they had, they gave them—everybody had to have something, if it wasn’t nothing but a jar, or fruits, or something like that. He gave his nanny something from up there, and they’ve been getting on good ever since.





	B:	Now, was it a surprise to hear your grandmother want to go back to the plantation where she was enslaved?

	R:	Well, it was a surprise because when my Aunt Sue—I didn’t know my granddaddy had any people. My granddaddy was named Harry Scott. I didn’t know he had any people! But his people right there in Monticello. Well, my granddaddy got sick. He had a stroke or something. And his wife went and asked the sheriff, say, “He has some people, but I don’t know where they are.” He say, “And what the name be?” She said, “Well, the last time I heard that he was somewhere around Tampa, or Bradenton, or somewhere in that area.” He said, “I’ll find him.” That’s what the Sheriff Parker said. And he found him, and she came home, and she told us that her mother was reared—in other words, she was a very old woman then. Her mother was reared on a plantation in Monticello. And the people was the Scott people, so when slavery—everybody became free—she left there. She had a mulatto boy, and that little mulatto boy was my granddaddy. And she brought him to Perry, and then she married. After she got over here, she married an Irvin, and that’s why the Irvin children and the Scott children are kin. But, I had a smart brother now, that was trying to teach me about that economics. He’s very smart man. He decided he’d go over there and find out what else she was talking about. He went to the courthouse, and they found it. And then, after they found with them in the courthouse, he decide to go visit them, and told them who he was. [Laughter] And he was saying, it was so funny, he said they was the nicest people. I said I always will believe that it was over there and Melrose was one of them. I told you that that principal that sent





me out to that nursing—kindergarten room, was a Scott, and I didn’t both with that Scott stuff, now. [Laughter] But, well, that’s what happened. My granddaddy came off the plantation in Monticello, and I don’t see no reason to not like those people. My brother said they fine people. He went over there. He came in from California to see granddaddy while he was sick, and find Aunt Susie, and we didn’t know he had a sister. They just—one thing, granddaddy never gone to school. But don’t you fool with him with mathematics, now. No, no! He’ll get you. [Laughter] He tell us, “Y’all can’t do nothing, do you know so and so, and this, that, and the other?” He was the right man to have when you want to do arithmetic.

	B:	Where did he learn how to do math like that?



	R:	I guess, studying I reckon. And then, I told you this superintendent that I asked for work in Taylor county was named Reddister. And when he found out I was a Scott, he wanted to know, did I know Harry Scott? I say, “Yeah.” Then he say, “Well Harry Scott nursed me when I was a baby.” He took good care of him for his momma. So there, if I’m gonna hate him, I didn’t. [Laughter] Man gave me a job. When the bus drivers act up when you want you to ride where you want to ride on them, so I come home, and that’s the first person I talked with, was the superintendent. Doug Reddister on Green Street just across 19 in about the third house, is where I found him. And I had no problem.

	B:	That’s nice. Are we good? H:	About two more minutes.





	B:	Well, I guess we’ll close then. I have some more questions for you, but we’ll have to save them for another interview.

	R:	You say what?



	B:	I said, I have some other questions for you, but we might have to save them for a different day, for another interview.

	R:	Okay. [Laughter]



	B:	I was interested about your career.



	R:	About the school, I didn’t tell you about— B:	Exactly.

	R:	I did tell you it got burned down though. Mmhm.



	B:	Yeah, and so we can talk about that another day, when you feel a little more up to talking about it.

	R:	Yeah, well, don’t forget about that teacher, and what he did for me out of Gainesville. And my nephew loved over there, the one I told you got drowned over there, poor thing. And you know they present his mother with that—with the certificates and things, right here in the church in Perry. And those kids was over here. I don’t know how they got all that money to get over here, but, cars, and buses, they follow him right on over here, and they buried him out here.

	B:	What was his name?



	R:	His name was Robert Scott.



	B:	Have you ever been to the Alcove?



	R:	No, that’s been a good while ago, right about ten years ago.





	B:	Okay. No I—I’ll have to double-check something, because there’s a memorial in one of the businesses in Gainesville, and it was for a guy that drowned in the ocean.

	R:	Oh, it might’ve been him. B:	It might be him.

	R:	Well they loved him.



	B:	Yeah, I mean everybody has wonderful stories.



	R:	He was working in the NAACP, and a lot of—in other words, he’s a worker, a church worker, he works everywhere.

	B:	Yeah. That could be him, then! R:	Yeah, that was my brother’s son.

	B:	Well, I tell you, people have really great stories about him and everybody remembers him very fondly. So, that’s interesting.

	R:	Yeah, well his mother got all those papers that he would’ve gotten. She had to go up there to the front. The president came, wherever he was. Yeah, now, I went to get in—no that was Daytona Beach. I’ve never seen but one of our national officers, and that was Mrs. Roosevelt. She, Madame Bethune called her to speak in Daytona, and we all decided we would go, because it was the President’s wife! We wanted to see her. And so we went over there. So I had a chance to see one, and that was Mrs. Roosevelt, Eleanor Roosevelt.

	B:	Oh wow.



	R:	Other than that, I’ve never seen a national officer. I’ve seen some of the senators now, but none of the presidents and they family.





	B:	Michelle Obama came to Gainesville, about a year ago? And did a big speech in the main plaza in Gainesville.

	R:	Well, she’s been down there to those places where that oil been swimming in every bath [Laughter].

	B:	Yeah, they sure did, they went swimming, didn’t they?



	R:	Yeah, they can’t understand being that common, but I think it’s nice to get with them. I want him to do one thing for me though.

	B:	What’s that?



	R:	I want him to talk about American children, and the things that they did long time ago. Some of it couldn’t happen when I was in school, but I want them to go back to Sunday school, and be taught more values. And where you going get it from but the Bible? No, that’s where you going get it from. So, he can—you’d be surprised if he speak out for it and want him to do those type of things that lot of these people, their children staying home. Mrs. Demps had something out there teaching girls, you know, about taking care of themselves and things. And she, Carrie, call her daughters, said, “Ms. Demps want you to come to the church out there. She’s teaching some”—she said, “Do you all want to go?” The girls said, “Nah.” I said, “My Lord!” She didn’t have no business asking that girl that. She should’ve said, “Ms. Demps say come out there,” and she would’ve gone.

	B:	Now as an educator, did you always try to put values into your lessons as well as—you know, you’re not just teaching arithmetic and reading, you’re also teaching how to be a good person and things like that. Was that something that you tried to put into your lessons?





	R:	In my lesson plan? B:	Mmhm.

	R:	I wasn’t obedient. [Laughter] No, I wasn’t obedient! I did it. Okay, now I just have to tell you one of the main stories that happened. I had a little boy in the classroom. And we was teaching about—we had the red race, brown race, Black race, White race. And it was on a poster up there, and we was talking about them, and everybody loving them, saying good things about the person. Finally say, the little boy say, “I hate my Momma.” I said, “Who? You hate your mother?” And I got up, I said, “Well honey, why you hate your mother? What does she—?” “I just, she just bugs me.” I say, “You mean your mother go out in the yard and get bugs and put on you?” And you know that little fella had sense enough to tell me, “You know what I’m talking about.” He meant she aggravated him. Okay?

Now here’s what happened to that little boy. If I would say that now, they’d fire me. I said, “You don’t need to be with us, because we love our mothers. These children love them because they do so many nice things for them. What did your mother do for you this morning?” “She gave me some breakfast.” “What did she give you?” He told me. “What else?” “She gave me some egg.” “What else she give you?” “She gave me some milk.” “And what else?” And he kept on, ‘til that woman had done nineteen things for that boy. I said, “Well, you don’t need to be with us, because we love people.” And you know what? That little boy, I noticed him. We have a fence around the kindergarten. If you ever go by Mayo, and look at that little building over there, it’s a fence around it. He walked around that fence, he didn’t play any that day. I didn’t know I had wound him like I did,





because if I done it now, they’d fire me. Because I got him, all right. The next morning, his mother was there on the job. She says, “I couldn’t get Donny to eat supper last night. Every time I tried to get him to eat, he said, ‘I didn’t mean it, Momma, I didn’t mean it.’ Tried to get him eat breakfast this morning. He hadn’t had anything to eat. He said, ‘I didn’t mean it, Momma.’ And I figured you might know something.” I say, “He know something. Let him tell you.” He says, “I didn’t mean it, Momma.” All she could get out of him, “I didn’t mean it, Momma.” And finally, when I knew I was getting on her nerve, I decided to tell her. “This boy say he hates, you bugs him.” And she scream. The little boy ran around her and he scream. I said, “Oh, my goodness! What are we into?” Well, I knew that I didn’t need to let her go out there and get in that car and drive off with her nerves so bad. All right, she—I told her to have a seat, and they did, and I would call her pastor. I called her pastor, and he was there in a few minutes, and he got that little boy and his mother and carried them to a café somewhere, and they ate breakfast. And they got through, he came back after about one o’clock. She came back in there. He say, “You know I love people. I love my Momma. And you know what? I’m going be baptized! Because my pastor’s going baptize me Sunday!” And I said, “Whoo, I ain’t gonna get into this one!” [Laughter] Because I told you, because when I went back—we had a glass office in there, and one of the teachers sat on one side, and I sat on the other, where we can watch those little people if they got into anything, or they needed anything. Well, and he started telling them about what the pastor told him about the Lord. And, “I love the Lord, and I’m going join the church and I’m going be baptized, and I want you





to be there to my baptism!” He went on and on, and I just let him have his way, ‘cause something about it, it just bothered me. I let that boy talk all evening. And he was talking. Well that Sunday, that next day—that must’ve been on Thursday—something happened in my family and I didn’t see him be baptized. And I told him, I had a nephew to get killed in Vietnam, his name was Daryl Scott. He got killed, and I couldn’t, I just couldn’t. I stayed home until the next week. I didn’t go back to school that Friday and go back Monday, but when I got there, he had something to tell me. So—and then, I let them have their little, whatever they have in the morning, and one of the mothers sent me the Lord’s prayer, and told me we didn’t have to just say the pledge, we could say that sometimes. If one those little smart alecs that knew enough to go on with the pledge and different thing like that, I’d be busy in the office. And if they caught them, they’d have been doomed. [Laughter] Yeah, I never did stop.

	B:	So you said that was the way it used to be, and now you would’ve gotten fired.



What changed?



	R:	I would have.



	B:	What changed?



	R:	They wouldn’t have let me work. Or would’ve disciplined me. Probably some of the parent wouldn’t have let them send me away, but they would’ve given me a good discipline. And then the next thing, I saw my picture in the paper. One of ‘em had stole it and call me old ma’am. “She done the thing the way—to help children,” some kind of stuff like that.





	B:	And so what changed that made education so that there weren’t lessons about values and how to be a good person? Was there something that changed, like a law or something like that?

	R:	Well, when we think about the Israelites, the Jews, our value system really came from them. You know that already, don’t you? Well, if we gonna have it, you can do little things like the Mayflower. Now you know, when that Mayflower docked on that beach up there in Massachusetts, you know that the first thing that man did was told the women to stay on the ship, he got on his knees and he prayed, and then he got out and went and looked for somewhere there for them to settle down. Now that happened. And then they started doing all things like that. Then some things I had believed in. What is that boy, Indian name? Kato. You know Kato? All right what did Kato do? He cried—no, they stole him, I think they stole him somewhere. And they took him to England, and they raised him in England, so when he started worrying about trying to come home, they sent him back home, where nobody there where he lived. So he went over to Narangansett, somewhere over there, and he lived with them. Then the message reached their king, that they had died, that somebody was living down there. And they was farming, and they’s building houses. That was our group on the Mayflower, and he told that group of Indian, you go down there and kill every one of them! Tonto [Squanto?] was with them. And when he got there, and they begin talking English, and he could talk with them, he said, “They do you no harm. They do you no harm!” He saved them. You see, all of those type of things went on. Now when I first started teaching, somewhere in third grade, they gave me a book to





teach out of. And you know I left that I left that little book over there in my classroom? I wish I had it. It was a little history book of early Americans, and it was worth having. These children need to know it now. They need to go back to Sunday school. They need to be taught respect, and all of those type of things. That’s the only thing I can tell you I was very disobedient about. They didn’t bother them. If they had, they’d have their mothers to get a good whipping.

They’d’ve have to get them! [Laughter]



	B:	So times just change—parents stopped wanting you to teach values and things.



	R:	They brought the things for me! I told you, one of them brought the Lord’s Prayer on a record so the children could say it. And if they thought there was a book or anything, I needed it, they’d bring it. I never had a party. When I thought they knew enough to have their ABC party, Ms. Dennison had tip of them. Well, we had the dinner—I don’t think we had a parent to stay home, not even the daddy. When those children had that ABC party. He said, “I never heard of a ABC”—I said, “Why not? We had that ABC.” And the next thing, they all turn out to, United States Grows Up. Now I got that out of a Kindergarten Keys book. Ever heard of that one?

	B:	Mm-mm.



	R:	Well it’s a book, reading book, Kindergarten Keys. And it got the story of early Americans, all the way in it. And we’d learn those stories and things like that, and then we decided we would let America grow up. The brothers brought all the womens and all the childrens. And the parents brought those britches that, you put them down in there, and drag little thing. And then, then some come help





me in the art class, and fix them red hats, with a sauce and made them sauce above it. We had those early Americans, the first group, and then we had a little girl smart enough to learn all of those name. And she called each one, and they would come. And I mean, that place was packed. But those mothers, they was everything to me. I loved them, and they loved me. And they did a good job of showing it. I have a quilt in there now. You wanna see it?

	B:	Sure.



	R:	I’m going step over this.



	W:	Ms. Reeves, hang on for one second. R:	Oh!

	B:	It’s okay! Don’t you worry! R:	I forgot I had those there! B:	I forgot, too! Don’t worry! W:	Yeah, we all forgot.

	R:	Well, I appreciate you coming down.



	W:	Oh, we appreciate it. We’re going to see you again tomorrow as well. When you come over and give the speech, we’ll see you then.

	R:	Yeah, I’ll be over there and stand where you tell me. W:	Okay.

	R:	You say I’m supposed to present something. W:	Yes.

	R:	I’m out of words. [Laughter]





	B:	Yeah, you got to think of a lesson for everybody tomorrow! [Laughter] I’m sure you’re very experienced on making up lessons the night before, so— [Laughter]

	W:	Did he tell you what you were gonna be presenting?



	R:	He told me, “Oh, you don’t have to do anything,” he said, “but stand there in the end or something.” He didn’t say I had to say anything.

	B:	Oh, okay. You just have to look pretty. [Laughter] R:	Ooh, I have to dress up, huh?

	B:	I guess so. Well, you look beautiful right now. I love your outfit. W:	You look very nice.

	B:	You could wear that tomorrow and— R:	No, because I wore it today! [Laughter] B:	Oh, okay. [Laughter]

	R:	I had a prayer meeting today. I don’t know how to talk to these children unless I try to put some type behavioral pattern in their mind, and they listen. Most time they don’t do what you say, though.

	B:	Oh. You have to stay on them, I think. [Laughter] Yeah. Well I’d like to go back out and talk to you more about your grandfather and your father and how he built that house. We never finished the story.

	R:	Oh, finish the house?



	B:	Yeah, I’d to hear about him building that house.



	R:	That was my grandaddy’s on Main Street down there. This is my daddy here. He left us in [19]75.

	B:	I’m going to come out here with you.





	R:	Is it raining right here?



	B:	Just a little bit, it’s not too bad. Maybe just enough to mess up your hair, but not your clothes.

	R:	Well…



	B:	So you were telling me that your grandfather left right after the civil war.



R:  Yeah, he left, he didn’t stay here, but he came back. He came back and went back to those same men and worked. In other word, things has quieted down here, but—

	B:	Well, I’m confused, what was the mill? Can you tell me more about the mill and what did they—?

	R:	Burton and Swartz. The largest mill in Florida at that time. But, this is still a big one out here.

	B:	Oh, down that road?



	R:	Yeah, that’s right, that’s a big mill. But this one is equally as big at the dead end of that street right there. Go across 19th, and you’d be where the location was.

	B:	Oh, it’s not there anymore?



	R:	No, no. That one been closed a long time. B:	Okay.

	R:	That’s where the men wanted—some men worked up at the mill, and some worked in the garden.

	B:	See, I’m confused. Did the people who owned the mill, brought a group of engineers from Louisiana?

	R:	They did.





	B:	Were those men meant to replace men that were already working there? Is that why—?

	R:	That’s what they wanted to do. And he told them that I brought my engineers with me, but they still wanted him to move them Black engineers and let them engineers go in their garden.

	B:	Oh, okay.



	R:	All this was gardening stuff around here.



	B:	Yeah, and you say engineers. Are those people who work the land?



	R:	Yeah, they were the men that work in the mill, that handled the lumber, graded the lumber. And they taught my daddy how to grade lumber, that’s why he known as a lumber grader. They taught him. Then a lot of people from Louisiana came in here. After they left from up there, they still came in here. The army, they were afraid, they didn’t know what the others going to do. They got peaceful, some of them, and they did what the government told them to do. They had let them go back home.

	B:	Okay. And how many years later was that, that they went back home? Or was it years?

	R:	Well, according to Momma, and whatever she was saying, they didn’t stay hardly two years, they didn’t stay that long.

	B:	That’s a long time when you miss your family and you want to be home, you don’t want to be in New Jersey.





	R:	Well, we were home with Daddy and Momma. Daddy wasn’t here then, he was out Camden, but he moved in town down here to get into this street with my momma’s mother. All us lived and packed in that little house together.

	B:	Oh, okay.



	R:	He left that before my granddaddy had actually. And then he started building this one, this one right here. And it was looking nice, it had a picket fence around it when he died in [19]75. And we rented to somebody, we told him it was hard to— no, he tore the fence down. He didn’t tell us anything, just tore it down. Renters can do that here. And did you know, most time, whenever they decided in the government going on with marriage? It was, it was, it was pretty bad. There’s this man that over there now, he just work all the time and don’t see him do anything like Daddy was doing over there. Yeah, it’s an old house now.

	B:	Is it strange to see other people living in the house that your father built? R:	My daddy?

	B:	Uh-huh.



	R:	No. This about the best one that ever been over there. He pays his room. B:	Okay. Oh, so this house still belongs to your family?

	R:	Yes, that’s our daddy. B:	Oh, okay.

	R:	That’s his name up there on that box. Elmo Scott. B:	Okay, yeah.

	R:	We bought this lot here from a man named Will Cummings. After I got married, and my husband and I decided to move over here, we would be near them.





	B:	Okay. And do you remember Miss Christine Baines? R:	Miss Christine…

	B:	Baines, and her last name is Holmes now. R:	Christine Holmes?

	B:	Mmhm.



	R:	You know her?



	B:	Well, Marna did an interview with her a few months ago. R:	She did?

	B:	Uh-huh, and she mentioned her name, and so that’s why we wanted to talk with you, is to hear what kind of education Ms. Baines got.

	R:	This woman?



	B:	Uh-huh.



	R:	Well, she came during the time they was burning up everything, whether you live in a house or a church, and the churches got away, they was scared to let you come in there because they scared they be burned up. And all kind of stuff like that. But it quieted down, and nobody bothered my daddy. He said, “I ain’t bother nobody, and nobody got no business bothering me.” So he didn’t leave town, he stayed right on out here. but he moved from this road here, down there on that road where he would be near the Peacocks and the Cassreds, the Bloodworths, and the good ones.

	B:	Because those were peaceful people?





	R:	Those were the people that owned the town and those are the people that wanted peace. And if you got near them—but those that lived out, they did them in, killed a lot of them and some of them left.

	B:	Oh, goodness. Did you know anyone that was murdered or that—?



	R:	I was too little to know. See, I was about four years old. I was born in 1919, and this war was in 1923.

	B:	So it’s generally thought of as a war here? That there was—



	R:	Oh yeah, it was a war here! There’s no doubt about that. The lady that—one of them died not long ago, died this year, B.D. Williams. Yeah, she and her mother, she was a nanny too, and her mother was one of those that talked with me about her town growing up, and how they fished and all that kind of stuff and everything like that.

	B:	Was that a nicer time or—? R:	Hm?

	B:	It sounds like when you think about going fishing and living life like that, it sounds nice.

	R:	You can fish out of that creek right back there! Daddy’d go down there and get fish and we’d have fish and grits for breakfast.

	B:	Oh! That sounds nice.



	R:	That’s right here. It’s two sinks down there. Now it was one straight back this way, there’s three of them, but the city decided that they’d fill the one up with the closing of this road here.

	B:	A sink meaning, like where the ground just falls in.





	R:	Yeah, but there was water and it runs underground, whatever it is. Yeah, Daddy, he’d go out there sometime and kill rabbits. Yeah, that phone company thing up there wasn’t there, all of that was wilderness like what they done growed up behind the house. All of that was right there.

	B:	Oh. You guys had plenty to eat.



	R:	Well, we didn’t starve. You know, I told you what that lady said. B:	What?

	R:	This lady said to Cordelia, Cordelia Cole? She told her, make all the women Heroines of Jericho. One Heroine won’t fight another. They won’t do anything to you. And one of the men told them, another one of the men made all these men—Masons. You’ve heard of Masons?

	B:	Uh-huh.



R:  Okay. You know that most of the men at that time, they treasured things more then than they do now. See now, these men don’t wanna do nothing but wear they britches too short. I don’t know what we going do about them.

	B:	But the Masons were a different group of people, they were— R:	I know.

	B:	What were they like? Tell me what were they like? R:	I can’t tell you that because I’m not a Mason!

	B:	Oh okay. [Laughter]



	R:	I don’t know much, I don’t know but one good deed one did. My husband and I went down this road here, and we went out to what you call Pucker Ditch Steinhatchee. And we was coming driving on down, and a man and his son was





walking. All of a sudden, he put on brakes down the road, turn around. I said, “What’s the matter?” He said, “My brother’s calling me.” And he went back and he picked that man up. I say, “Your brother? That man ain’t your brother, that’s a White man.” He said, “But he my brother. He was a Mason, and he gave the Mason signal. And when any one of them give that signal, it’s best you go out there and help him. You’d better help him. So he went there and got that man, and he had one of those things that that go into his throat, phlegm, was sticking in his stomach. We didn’t stop until he got that boy to the doctor’s office, and the doctor treated him. And then he sit around, and he took that boy and that man back out there where they was coming from. That’s what a Mason will do for you. Better not bother another Mason!

	B:	Right, it’s a brotherhood isn’t it? R:	Mmhm.

	W:	We need to get over to Jerkins. B:	Okay.

	R:	Going to Jerkins? W:	Uh-huh.

	B:	All right, well we’ll see you tomorrow. R:	Okay.

	B:	As our keynote…person who stands on the stage and looks nice. How’s that? [Laughter]

	R:	Y’all have to walk? W:	No ma’am.





	R:	Walk from this place to Jerkins? B:	How far is that?

	R:	Oh, about a mile and a half. B:	That’s a long way.

	R:	Yeah. And Jerkins is a little further out then the school because the school is on 19th. But that’s where the school got burned down. That Rosenwald school, it was on 19th, right there. We’ve been on over to, the school board—the parent wanted the name back, school board wouldn’t let them have it. Because parent had to buy all the land that I went to school to. And then, when they bought some, they bought out there where Jerkins is now. That’s the first we ever had, and that’s the way it was. So, that’s Jerkins!

	B:	Yeah, there’s a long history.



	R:	I was there about three years before I left and we [inaudible 1:45:02].



	W:	We’re going to look forward to seeing you tomorrow. Thank you so much for your time.

	R:	Okay, I’ll see you tomorrow.



	B:	Thank you so much for speaking with us. R:	God bless you.

	B:	I’ve had such a good time talking to you. R:	Okay.

	D:	Can I get a picture real quick, just standing right there—all three of you? B:	Oh sure. Come on in here.

	W:	Can I get in the middle?







D:



B:



R:



B:

There we go. Okay, one, two, three. Gotcha. All right.

She majored in—



Yep.

W:

She’s good.

R:

My daughter loved that. She worked at Polaroid.

B:

Oh, okay.

R:

Polaroid gave her a party before she died.

B:

Wow! That sounds nice.

R:

Uh-huh.

W:

I will see you next time. See you tomorrow.

R:

Okay. I remember the name, I’ve got your phone. [Laughter]

W:

Okay, you can talk to me all the time! [Laughter] And thank you very much for the



newspaper.

R:

Okay.

B:

All right.

W:

Try not to get wet.

R:

No, I won’t get wet, I just like to look at you all. [Laughter]

W:

Well thank you.

B:

And have a good evening!

R:

Okay, thank you.

W:

So you’re going stay for the lunch and tomorrow too, so we’ll see you then as



well.





	R:	Yeah.



	W:	Yeah after you make a presentation then they’re gonna give everybody lunch. [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Toni-Lee Maitland, January 16, 2014 Audit edited by:	Anna Jimenez, May 12, 2014.

	Second edit by:	Ryan Morini, January 28, 2015 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 16, 2019