AAHP 196; McClellan; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 196 Richard McClellan African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Richard Boyd on October 12, 2011 22 minutes | 10 pages



Abstract: Richard McClellan was born and raised in Gainesville, Florida, in the historic Pleasant Street neighborhood. He describes his experiences in attending Lincoln High School, and talks about the Civil Rights Movement in Gainesville though he states that he was not an active participant. His family has been involved with the historic Mt.

Pleasant United Methodist Church for multiple generations, and he discusses some of that history in the interview, as well as the importance of Mt. Pleasant to him and to the community. He concludes with some thoughts on the presidency of Barack Obama.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Lincoln High School]























































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 196

Interviewee: Richard McClellan Interviewer: Richard Boyd

Date of Interview: October 12, 2011



	B:	Hi, can you introduce your name for us please? M:	Yes, I’m Richard McClellan.

	B:	Ok and we’re doing this interview at your house today, my name is Richard Boyd I’m part of the University of Florida Oral History Program. Can you start off by telling us a little bit about yourself: Where you were born, and a little bit about the city where you grew up in?

	M:	Yes. Well, I’m a native Gainesvillian. I was born in Gainesville. On historic street which is Pleasant Street. That is the location of the church that we discussed

	B:	Yes. Mount Pleasant Church.



	M:	Yes. I grew up in that neighborhood. And I had siblings, brothers and sisters, we all grew up as a family in that neighborhood. My parents belonged to Mount Pleasant. So did we all. It was family

	B:	How many how many brothers and sisters did you have? M:	I had three brothers and one sister, they are all deceased.

	B:	Oh wow, okay. And your parents, what did they do? Did they work?



	M:	Yes they worked. My mother worked more or less as a domestic and then worked in the home. My father worked in various things from a furniture refinisher to an upholstery repair person. And—

	B:	Jack of all trades.



	M:	Yes in those days you had to do that. And as I mentioned to you a minute ago without a formal education I came along and did the same thing. I left school early because my father passed when I was seven years old. My oldest brother





was ten, my sister, Eunice, was four, and the youngest son, Hampton, he was only eighteen months old. I had to work. I started work at nine years old. In those days they had split sections of schools. They had certain grades in the morning and then certain grades in the evening. And of course, high school was all day but then the elementary school children was split. Morning session then evening and then it switched around as your grades went up. But I started working real early. And I liked what I was doing and people was very generous in helping me accomplish the things I was doing. Right on Pleasant Street. The street that I was born on, they had a lot of small Black businesses on that street. They had doctor’s offices—two doctors’ offices, three insurance companies.Black insurance companies: Afro-American Life Insurance Central, and companies like that. Naturally, they had restaurants, small cleaners, even had a Black theater on that street. It burned down when I was a child. Mortuary, undertaker, all that was on that street. And I started with the small cleaner, in a small cleaner. Working there one half day and going to school the other half. And naturally that person sold and this was during World War II. And other persons bought that little business and expanded it, and I worked for them for a number of years and I was, I always say I was sold again. But they sold that business and then the next person came along and expanded it, and helped me a great deal, and buying books for me, and encouraged me to continue studying that field.

	B:	Were they, when the laundry place got sold was that still, were they sold to other Black owners? Or?





	M:	No, they sold it to other, they sold it to Whites. The first owner was a Black man. His name was Maxie Thomas. And he sold it to Sid and Ruby Owens which were White, and they expanded that small business and hired other people. Then they expanded so that they had to move to a new location. Well I moved with them.

And then they sold and I stayed with the new owner and they encouraged me to learn that trade. And naturally they had—you have to have machinery in that kind of thing. So it was a natural sort of gift that I could work on mechanical things and all like that. And I was encouraged then to do other correspondence work in that field, electrical appliance repair, I had to get that. I did that and, of course, it was part time because I continued day work and as you can see I have done numerous correspondence work in things like that. Not necessarily, some of it was things that interested me and some of it has to do with living. Not all with dry cleaning cause I don’t have anything up there from that or the appliance servicing I don’t have anything up there from that. But I do have certification forms and things like that. I married early I had four children, and three of those are deceased now. Sons. Three sons are deceased now. I have one daughter. And during those years I did a number of things. I played a little bit of music with rock n roll and blues bands in town. I and my brothers and things like that we did a little bit of overnight travels and things like that. And then we had the distinction at one time of playing at all of twenty-six fraternities on the university campus.

Houses. Sorority houses. Most of them at that point were lined on University Avenue and some on 13th St. But being busy well then that wasn’t making a living. I had to. I had a family and I had to let that go. I enjoyed it. I went places I





could not have went in those days because there was not integration. I met people I would not have met because of that. There was not integration. Not changing the subject but the Church. I have been a lifelong member of my present church and it was predominantly Black denomination at one time. It was Mt. Pleasant Methodist Episcopal Church. Well in 1967, they merged with the United Brethren. And it all became United Methodist Church. So they’re supposedly integrated now but on Sunday morning it’s the most segregated hour in the United States. [Laughter] But be that as it is I, I can remember a number of ministers that were pastors at Mount Pleasant over the years and you know they’re appointed one year at a time. And some have managed to stay four years, six years, ten years, as my wife she was pastor there for twelve years at first, and then was elevated to district superintendent, which she served eight years. The normal term of the district superintendent in the Methodist church is six years, but she was asked to stay two extra years. She supervised ninety-six churches, both Black and Whites. And there was a period there where one pastor died, and they had a former pastor which was retired and another young man from Jacksonville, David Williams, filled in there for about one year. And she came back to Mt. Pleasant and she’s there now.

	B:	That’s where she is now? Well, how big was the impact that the church had in your life?

	M:	It had a grand impact. Being there as a child, you understand, well then there were values that were instilled in me that have grown, and have lasted. It’s very important in my life. I have served there in some years as a class leader, which





they don’t have any more since we’ve merged. I served for a number of years as a young steward, we don’t have those anymore we merged. Alright now in the United Methodist Church in her time there, her first time there, I served as a Lay Leader for seven years and now I’m just a member and a male choir member. [Laughter]

	B:	Are you enjoying your time doing that? M:	Yes.

	B:	Going back to a previous statement you made. When you were playing the music, you would go, you went to all the fraternities and sororities how were you, were you greeted—

	M:	Well, yes, you couldn’t play in sorority house B:	Just fraternities

	M:	No, no, no, just the fraternities. Now they had, you had to go somewhere else, what they called the Florida Union then. If a sorority hired you or they had rented the American Legion downtown. It is now Matheson Museum. That was, a sorority would rent that in those days.

	B:	So they would just rent an outside space outside of the sorority house and have you play?

	M:	Yes, yes. There were no parties like that at sorority houses, no.



	B:	Going back to the church, did the church have any influence as far as schooling went? I know you said you left school early ‘cause of having to work because your father passed away. Did the church help you in any way with education or how was—





	M:	Well, not per se. No, no, no, no. Now, in those days, many times your— especially in elementary school—your school teacher, because many of them belonged to that church many of them were your Sunday school teacher or whatever like that. But other educational things that I did came from purely seeing a need for it. And, I have enjoyed what I have done.

	B:	Ok. Going back to civil rights M:	Yes!

	B:	Did the church, have you seen a transformation in the church since before civil rights, since before there was integration ‘til after that? As far as what the church has meant to you. Or what have what, can you tell me a little bit about the civil rights movement yourself? What the city of Gainesville was like?

	M:	Well, that particular church, Mount Pleasant, it had some young people in it that were militant people. We had in those days a place here called Florida Theater. We had people in that church, the young people at that time, that marched on the Florida Theater. There is a business in there now I can’t recall the name of it but I think it wound up a pool place or something like that. But it’s on University Avenue now. We have people there now one or two that are still around they were young then. They were the ones that tried to integrate the Woolworth’s ten cent store downtown. Now I didn’t take part in any of that because I was busy at the time.

	B:	You had a family and—



	M:	Yes. Yes. I married very early and you know I just didn’t have time to do any of that. I was interested in it, but it was just you know, I just didn’t have time for that.





Now the difference in the church, I have not seen a great difference in the church. I know the church has meant a lot to that, the church in general has, you know they have worked on things and they have helped to improve things. But so far as the church is concerned there’s not a wide range in membership change and things like that.

	B:	You’ve lived in Gainesville your entire life. M:	Yes.

	B:	Have you noticed a considerable difference since civil rights to now? Or, do you still see problems that exist in Gainesville?

	M:	Yes. There’s difference now you can go almost anywhere you want to go; hotels. Before, why you only saw people doing domestic work there and things like that, but now you can go anywhere you want to go. And there are intermarriage, there’s integration in the schools. And, there is a difference.

	B:	Now, when you were a child, because of segregation was there anything that you wanted to do that you weren’t able to do?

	M:	No. There are certain things that are in-born in a person, if you, if understand what I’m saying.

	B:	Yes.



	M:	Take for instance the golf course. Our only action at a golf course was going there and retrieving those balls out of the ponds. See? Now, pretty soon you develop an apathy towards certain things. If you’re denied, or your parents say “you’re not supposed to do that,” or “you can’t do that.” You may have the desire





but then sooner or later you develop an apathy about it. And at least I did. [Laughter]

	B:	Now, speaking of your, your parents. Did they speak to you about race relations?



Did they speak to you about segregation? Or was it just kind of something you instinctively learned and you understood?

	M:	Instinctively. Yes. Yes.



	B:	You just noticed the differences and that sort of thing. M:	That’s right. That’s right.

	B:	Ok, now do you know, do you know if that was like that for your friends? If different family, you know, if different members of the family or members of society dealt with that differently? Or was it just—

	M:	Well, some had dealt with it differently. As I mentioned before there were young people, it was young people that marched on the Florida Theater. They had a desire to go there, and the same thing with the Woolworth’s downtown. They had a desire to sit at the lunch counter. See, maybe I did not but—

	B:	But you also had a lot going on in your life when all those things were occurring. Now let me ask you something bringing back to today’s society. The election of President Obama, did you, can you tell me what that meant to you? If it meant anything important at all or if it was just another—

	M:	It meant that minds, some minds had changed. It meant that for sure. And, matter of factly, I voted for him. I was glad to see that, that such a change took place. But some of the ways it has turned out I’ve never seen such disrespect for the office of President. And you see a man does not make a President. A





President makes the man. I never seen such disrespect for a person of office, for a President as I see now. And some of the things, most of the things, or all of the things that are in place now is not Obama’s fault. If the sky fell down this morning “Obama caused it!” No. No. Things were crumbling before he got there. And they were gonna happen no matter who was in there. And I notice now politically all the people now that are fighting, and scrambling, and doing whatever they’re doing to get in office. It’s not what they can do for the country, it’s beat Obama.

But now, what are you going to do when you get in office? See?



	B:	You sound very politically, like you have a lot of political knowledge. Have you been partaking in voting for most of your life?

	M:	Yes, I’ve voted for a long time. I vote in every election, local and national. But, like I say all of the people running for office I don’t see where anybody is saying anything about turning the country around or anything of that sort. And, and it’s just beat Obama.

	B:	Just attacking the person and not coming up with any substance for their argument.

	M:	Yes, uh-huh, yes.



	B:	Now what would you say the reason for that is?



	M:	[Laughter] You know what I want to say. I want to say because of he is who he is.



And I, I know that. See? Because, out of all the things that the former president did, there’s rarely accusation about him allowing things to get to the shape they were in. But it’s, all of a sudden now its Obama did it.





	B:	I agree with you one hundred percent, so I would just like to hear your perspective. Are there any other stories, anything else you would like to speak to me about, anything else that you would like to go on for this interview?

	M:	Not at this time



	B:	And we can always do another interview another day if there are more things you decide to think of.

	M:	Ok. I have your number and if we decide that, I will call you or you can call me. B:	It was a pleasure. Thank you very much.

	M:	And thank you. [End of Interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Juanita Duque, December 5, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 20, 2019