AAHP 257; Lowery; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 257 Linda Lowery African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Anthony Pierce on February 27, 2012 25 minutes | 13 pages

















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 257

Interviewee: Linda Lowery Interviewer: Anthony J. Pierce Date: February 27, 2012



	P:	Today’s date is February 27th. We are at the office of Ms. Linda Lowery. Please state your first and last name.

	L:	Linda S. Lowery.



	P:	And are you comfortable sharing your age? L:	Yeah.

	P:	How old are you?



	L:	Fifty-eight.



	P:	Fifty-eight, and were you born in Polk County? L:	Yes.

	P:	Now given that you were born to a migrant family, how was your life different in the North in comparison to the South, in terms of race relations and routine?

	L:	Well, not that much difference. A lot of people say that—well they used to say—it was better in the North, and that Blacks were treated better in the North, but I didn’t experience that. I experienced just as much prejudice in the North and the schools up there than I did down here. And a matter-of-fact it was better here because during that time schools were segregated down here. I didn’t have to deal with that. Up North schools were integrated, so I was just going to school with White kids even before the schools down here desegregated. When they did segregate… I’m trying to say desegregate, when they did desegregate the schools I’d already been used to going to school with White kids. So when I came home here, going up and down the Eastern coast, I was a migrant as you know, and it was different because when I came back I was in all-Black schools,





and I had to deal with that. I didn’t have to deal with the racial stuff. When I was in northern school they really discriminated against me. The teachers were horrible. I remember sitting in one class, and the teacher just came out and said—it was a history class as I could remember—and he was associating the shape of my head with saying what part of Africa that I came from in front of all the other students that was in the class, which they were all White. They were Polands, Germans, and a few Jews, but the Jews were very quiet because they didn’t want them to know that they were Jewish, cause they did them the same way. And they were horrible, and the children were very mean. When I went out for recess I couldn’t play with any of the games or anything, they wouldn’t let me play in any of their games, and when it came down to my turn they would not let me play. They would not let me jump rope; whatever they was doing, they wouldn’t let me play. So, that’s what I experienced in the northern schools.

	P:	Can you explain to me how the cafeteria came to be built at your segregated elementary and middle school in Prosproof?

	L:	Oh boy. They had, we used to carry a pack lunch on the beginning, and they put a little building out there where the cooks just cooked, and they had a little window where you come by and pick your plate up and take it to your room and eat. And my father was very involved in, what they called back then, PTA, and on his days off he would come out to the school and he would do volunteer work, and he would—so he came out there and he saw that, and he was upset, because he said it was unsanitary. And he went to the principal, the principal is too afraid to go to Barch at that time, to the superintendent who was a White





superintendent—because they had a Black and White superintendent. But this one—[inaudible 4:12] go to the White superintendent, so he went to Bartone, and Blacks didn’t do that—you didn’t make no waves. Principal didn’t want to do anything about it because he’s afraid. He’s afraid of his job. So my dad got in his car and went to Bartone. And he talked, the guy’s name was Mr. Fir; I’ll never forget it. And he went and talked to Mr. Fir. He told Mr. Fir about the situation, and what he had seen out there. He said it was very unsanitary. He asked Mr.

Fir, Would you like your child to eat out there like that? And from that they built a lunchroom right there, where we could go in and sit down and eat, and they had our cooks in there, and they fixed the food in there, and it was much more better, and much more sanitary. And everybody was so happy about that, so.

P:   Now, in your opinion why do you feel Black parents wanted integration?



	L:	Well you hear a lot of stuff now, cause people back then wasn’t there. I was there. They said that Blacks wanted to go to school with White kids; they just wanted to go to school. That wasn’t it, it wasn’t necessary. We were comfortable in our schools. If our schools would have had the same type of appearances, had the same type of books, and had the same type of resources, we would have been just as happy in our schools. We got the books that was left over from White schools. Our schools wasn’t as well kept, it wasn’t as—like I was just telling you about the lunchroom situation. That wasn’t going on at the White schools. They had better everything; not that they were any better, but they had better everything, so they got more money than we did. Their school was better kept, they got batter everything. We used to get their leftovers, and the parents





felt like that if they integrated, they kids would have would have a better school. Would have a better school, and have a better education, have better resources, and we’d get a better education. This is why they wanted to integrate.

	P:	Okay, and as the first class to be integrated, what were your fears, hopes, and overall expectations?

	L:	When I moved first, oh my God, we were afraid; I ain’t going to lie to you. And our teachers would tell us, When you go there, if you don’t study, you’re going to flunk out. You’re not going to make good grades. You’re going to do this, it’s going to be different there; it’s going to be harder there. It’s going to be this, it’s going to be that. So we didn’t know what to expect, because of the racism was there. There still is racism, but it’s a little better now than it was back then. We were afraid, and as you would see in some of those pictures, with some of the racism of the old flicks you see now when they first integrated, when them four Black students went into the University of Alabama. That’s during my time. I came up during the time of the Civil Rights’ Movement, Reverend Martin Luther King. That was my generation, of my generation who died so that the rest of our Blacks now could go to a restaurant and sit down and eat, and drink at a water fountain. We the ones, my generation, are the ones behind that. And we got to the school, we were afraid, and I’d lose classes, but I had never been to a [inaudible 7:49], well I had because I had been up and down on the season, I was a migrant, but a lot of kids they had never been inside sitting in a classroom with other little White children. It was scary, and they had all White teachers basically because what they did with our teachers, and our principals, they took





our principal. I know the principal of our school, which was Ramp J Belch, they took our principal and made him a little teacher that—a teacher. They stripped him down to a regular teacher, and he was going around teaching the kids that was unable to go to class; the sick kids. Cause he wasn’t good enough to make a principal and teach White kids. There wasn’t no Black kids, because they didn’t think our teachers, our Black teachers, were good enough to teach their kids. So there was very few Black teachers, like senior assembly we didn’t see that. No principals, no Black principals.

	P:	So what were your expectations?



	L:	Oh, I was going to go there and prove myself, because when I was at a Black school I was the top of my class, and I was going to be no different from when I went to a White school. I was going to prove that I was just as intelligent, that I was just as smart as they were. And I proved that.

	P:	So, what was the racism, or the reaction rather, like from Whites and from Blacks when the schools were integrated?

	L:	Oh, Lord. During that time Roots had come out, and there was a lot of stuff going on, and we had a racial—they were fighting and they had to get, Black kids were fighting probably because some injustice that was did to them and they had to get some Black parents to come in, in the school, in the hallways and stuff because it was a terrible thing. There was a lot of fighting going on, and they were beating the White kids, and I’m sure maybe they might have called him a nigger or something, and it was on. Roots was out along then, too, and Martin Luther King was marching, it was a lot of stuff going on. And Roots, we used to





take the little hair scarves and tie them like this in front, and then the principal would tell us to do something; we would say, Yes, master. And he would get so mad. He would turn so red. And it was just stuff like that I’m sure with the kids and stuff, it was racial tension.

	P:	So what does the name Woopah that make you think of? L:	What?

	P:	Woopah.



	L:	Who?



	P:	Woopah.



	L:	Woopah?



	P:	Uh–huh. I recall you saying something about someone.



	L:	Oh! [laughter] He was old then, but he, oh Lord. I was raised in [inaudible 10:55] and I had a pretty good raising. I’m not going to say it was a bad, it wasn’t bad because it really wasn’t; it was pretty good. They had racial tension there, too, and Woopah’s son was dating the White girl. And that was a no-no back in them days. And they had a war out in there in the Black neighborhood, and by time they came out there in our neighborhood and Woopah supplied the bombs, and they made homemade bombs and stuff, and they had an all-out war out there.

My brother was involved. I didn’t know anything about it until he told me. I was like in shock, but they were out there fighting, shooting, and going on and all this kind of stuff.

	P:	Do you know was there any fatalities?





	L:	My brother said someone got hurt. Some of the White people got hurt, but it was kept hush-hush. I don’t think any Blacks got hurt because we don’t hurt nobody. But they was out there in our territory, in our groves, and our stuff around our houses, in our neighborhoods. They was out of they neighborhood. It was on our turf.

	P:	Now who is Smite Pristina?



	L:	Oh that was my White love. [Laughter] Smite Pristina was in my class, and oh I loved myself some Smite Pristina, and it was vice versa. But back then that was a no-no. I was too afraid, he wanted to be with me and I wanted to be with him. We would just be staring at each other in class. He wanted to be with me and I wanted to be with him, but it was just a no-no, and I was too scared. And one time he did, I was out in the hallway, and my locker was at the bottom and I was getting my stuff out of my locker, and when I came up I was dead, he was leaning over my locker right there, so I was dead in his face. I could have kissed him. I wanted to, but I was too afraid. I looked around and see if anyone had seen us, you know what I mean? And I hurried, got my books and left, and ran, left him out there in the hallway.

	P:	So what was your class reunion like? When you two saw one another?



	L:	Oh we hadn’t seen each other, that was our first reunion. Oh my God. During that time, things were a little bit better. You were allowed to talk to Black people, and Black people got to talk to White people, and I’d seen some of my classmates, and they were apologizing and saying they found out that life was just not like that, the way it was back then; cause everybody had grown a little bit. And the





racial relationships had gotten a little bit better, but when we seen each other, we just stopped and both was just, I was hollered at Smite, Damn, just as loud, and he hollered, Linda Lowery! And we forgot for a moment that we were in our little group in my class, there were other students in there, we forgot about that. We were just in our own little world. And when we stopped, and we got through hugging—you know talking and hugging each other and everything—and we stopped and looked around, and everybody was staring at me and him. [Laughter] It was just that intense, and we were like, Wow, and they were like, Wow. [Laughter] His girlfriend, she was like you know breathless, you know what I’m saying?. [Laughter] That was something, that was something.

	P:	Now what does it mean to you to have been [inaudible 14:21] first Black queen? L:	Oh, I’m still mad. There hasn’t been another one.

	P:	Really?



	L:	Yeah. Oh that was hurtful. I’m a tell you what happened. I won, everybody knew I won, they took it away from me. Madame Malone, you might know Madame Malone, because she’s from Lake Wells. She was a secretary, and Ms. French was a school teacher, they was in there when they were counting, she told me, she said, Linda you won. And they took it away from me and gave it to a White girl. I was devastated, and I walked off the field. I was so hurt, and devastated.

And they felt so bad about it, because they knew I knew; my class did. They voted me prom queen. They gave me a whole picture by myself in the yearbook. I had a whole picture of me in the yearbook, and that’s how they called themselves making it up to me.





P:  If you could change anything, would it be you doing something that you wish you had done or something you wish you had not done?

L:  Would I change anything? I don’t remember doing too many things that I wish I had not done. I don’t think I wish I could’ve, would’ve done, I wish I would have worked on my doctoral degree when I was younger.

P:   Okay.



	L:	That’s the only thing I wish that I should’ve did. And maybe, I don’t know. P:	Tell me who Ms. Blake is to you.

	L:	Oh, Ms. Blake. Ms. Blake was a Black superintendent, of the Black school. She used to come around to the Black schools. She talked to us, and see if there was any problems, and she was just, she was a Black lady, we were pretty—her son, as a matter of fact he’s a medical doctor he works in Lakeland. And she would come out there and [inaudible 16:39], she was something else. She’d see which a [inaudible 16:42], clothes dirty, she would tell you. She’ll ask down and say, Boy, why didn’t you comb your hair? [Laughter] Why didn’t you do this? She was just like that. She was just a neat lady, and she would just, she would come out and she would come to our classrooms and she would talk to us.

	P:	What do you remember about Ms. Leslie Pitt?



	L:	Lord Ms. Pitt, Ms. Pitt, she was a great teacher. During that time we had three to four classes, and about at least three classes in one room; this was the segregated schools. This is why the Black parents felt like they kids would get a better education, because of the conditions, and Ms. Pitt taught third, fourth, and fifth. And boy, she would eat, Ms. Pitt liked to eat, and you know at that time we





didn’t have a lunch room at that time, that was before we got any kind of lunch room, but we all packed lunches. So we asked our mom to fix us extra food, because—or extra sandwiches—we didn’t know which one of our lunches Ms. Pitt was going to eat out of that day. They fed the teacher, and she’d go around the class and she’d asked everybody what they had in they lunch. And whatever she wanted, that’s the lunch she would eat. So, and she would teach, when she got through eating breakfast in the morning, doing whatever she did, she had class. And back then they beat students when they didn’t, they’d use corporal punishment on you back then, and they still do now, but in Black school they didn’t scram no rod, and sometime when you didn’t get your school work, you got punished.

	P:	How have these experiences molded you into the person that you are today?



	L:	Well, I’m probably a little difficult because—than most people are—because a lot of people that are not my age and didn’t come in at the time when I came alone, in the area I did, they don’t understand where I be coming from, because of the racism stuff. It’s still here. People want to make like it’s not here, but it’s here. I see it all the time. They’re just a little bit more sharper now, they’re just a little bit more polished. The Jim Crow esquire, you know what I’m saying?

	P:	Uh–huh.



	L:	They lawyers and doctors now, but it’s still going on. It’s institutionalized racism, I see it every day. But the thing is now, what’s going on now is, our youth, they don’t know where they come from, they don’t know what we had to do to get where we are for our rights, and they not fighting anymore. They don’t know,





they’re mixed up, they’re not teaching slavery in schools anymore, they don’t want it taught. These kids do not know who they are, half they culture they don’t know what. I had on my desk a copy of the Negro National Anthem, lift every voice and sing, and we had to know this stuff. When I was coming up this stuff you knew. Plait the maypole, May Day, stuff that was relevant to us as a race of people; it’s gone, it’s lost. Our kids and our students now hurt me don’t know it, or know nothing about it. We used to have celebration where we’d plait the maypole, and we knew what that meant; not anymore. So, they’ve lost the battle, lost the fight, and they just do anything to us. They don’t even recognize that it’s racism. They have it dressed up differently now, they use it as, Well, you don’t have any experience. Even with myself, You don’t have any experience. You don’t have any education. But if they never give you experience, never give you an opportunity to do something, you will never have any experience. I can’t compete against White people. I have the education, but I don’t have, they use the experience part on me and that keeps me out. That’s the new…

	P:	Racism.



L:  Racism. And I can’t compete against White people. I don’t have the experience they have. I wasn’t given the opportunity, and that is what they use against me. And they going to use that against them, too.

P:  As an educator who visits the campuses of various high schools within Polk County, how have the attitudes of Black students and their parents changed toward education?





	L:	I don’t know, I can only speak for myself. My dad was on law with me when I was young, and with my education. My dad would come home from work, my dad worked hard, he did hard work. He’s a migrant, he did, when he come by he worked at a citrus, he did hard work. But my dad, when he would get home from work, he would make sure that he—first, he used to tell me, “Go get your lessons,” that’s what he used to call them. And he would make sure that I had my work, and he would make sure that the next day when I went to school that I knew my work, and he was hard on me. I would make straight As, and he would tell me, and I’m in tears because that’s what he used to do, what my father used to do. He wouldn’t say, You did good. He would say, You do better next time.

This is not good enough. That’s how hard he was on me, but it paid out, because it made me work hard and it made me want to strive to be the best, and in my class I was. And they integrated me into schools when they were segregated. I was the smartest off my class, and when I went to the integrated school, I was at the top of my class too, and I got respected because I was Black and I wasn’t supposed to be that intelligent, and right now my classmates, they’ll tell you right now, they’ll tell you. Little Lowery she probably, whatever she did, she probably got an A on it, because I strived and worked that hard so that, because I wanted to be seen as a high achiever, because that’s what I was not because of the color of my skin, and I’m sorry for crying but it brings back all the emotions about that time. That was a hell of a time in life.

	P:	What advice would you give today’s generation? What is it that you know now that you wish you knew then?





	L:	What I know now that I wish I’d known then. That’s a good one. That’s a good one, I don’t know.

	P:	Any life lesson that you feel that stood out to you?



	L:	I did basically what I wanted to do. I did basically what I wanted to accomplish at that time. I just wished that I would have went to school when I was younger, because I have a lot of health problems now, and I wish I would have done more when I was younger. My parents, my mom, they sent me to school. My dad came out when I finished. It was five of us, and I got a job and went to work, I had to get a job and go to work. So I accomplished just about everything that I wanted to accomplish, I just wished that I would have did it at a younger age.

	P:	Okay, well this concludes our interview. I thank you so much for your time and all the information you shared.

	L:	You’re welcome. I’m sorry I’m such a crybaby. P:	Oh no, you’re fine. I love it.

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Jennifer Romero, December 4, 2015 Audit edited by:	Holland Hall, June 27, 2017

	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 22, 2019