AAHP 435; Johnson; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 435 Jesse Johnson African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Vickie Oldham on September 4, 2015 12 minutes | 7 pages



Abstract: Jesse Johnson talks about being fired for speaking out against the dishonest labor practices he dealt with while pouring cement. He reflects on his gratitude for being able to provide for himself and his pride for seeing his fellow community members be able to move up economically. Mr. Johnson also speaks about how people helped each other take steps up the ladder and people using their gifts in order to survive and thrive. This interview seems an excerpt of another interview. It starts and ends abruptly.



Keywords: [Newtown, Florida; Labor; African American History; Florida Black History]























































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 435 (Newtown Oral History Project) Interviewee: Jesse Johnson

Interviewer: Vickie Oldham Date: September 4, 2015



	O:	Because you spoke out what happened?



	J:	Because I spoke out about hiring they decide that they— O:	Who is they?

	J:	The people in the city and job force thing. And they decide that they gonna fix this thing ‘cause the contractor can’t bring nobody in there if they aint come through that system. Everybody got to be signed up to be able to go to work out there.

	O:	Okay.



	J:	And I like that.



	O:	So they can’t bring their own crews. J:	No ma’am.

	O:	And pay them low wages. They’re gonna have to go through that agency and pay them a specific amount.

	J:	Yes, ma’am ‘cause see what we did before, the two phases that I worked on out there in the garden, we made two hundred fifty dollars a day. We poured four units there and you them section?

	O:	Mm-hmm.



	J:	We poured four of them a day. And then we find out. The company that was in there when he find out, I think it was Baker, when he find out what we could do— It was twenty-one men working in there, and when he find out what he can do, left down to nine people. He started to taking his mens off. You hear me? That’s what he started doing. When he find out what we could do ‘cause he said to one





of the gentlemen, he say. I talked to one of the gentlemen, I said, “What he want us to do?” He said, “Y’all over the cement.” And I said, “We over the cement, you aint paying us but a hundred fifty dollars a day. He got to come up with some more money if he want us to be over the cement.” And I couldn’t tell the people what I hired up because they’ll go back and tell the man and I wouldn’t tell him.

Said it next day and I sent a message to them. The first truck come we didn’t pour. The second truck come we didn’t pour. The third truck out there, the operator said, “What yall wanna do?” I said, “We just waiting.” The fourth truck come we didn’t pour. The fifth truck came we didn’t pour. The sixth truck, there was seven trucks out there, the man that we worked for come across the road running. “Why y’all ain’t pouring?” They said, “Mr. Johnson want to talk to you.” “What do Mr. Johnson have to say?” I said, “Yesterday, we have poured all this cement and aint got nothing but a hundred fifty dollars and we won’t pour no more cement for no hundred fifty dolalrs. I said we decided with the mens all us sit there and talk, I told them that we could two hundred fifty dollars a day. He said, “I can’t pay yall no two hundred fifty dollars. What I can do, I’ll give yall two hundred dollars and I’m a man.” I said, “You didn’t hear me. I told you two hundred fifty.” And he said, “Yall come on and go to work.” [Laughter]

	O:	Go head on Mr. Johnson! Go head on! J:	And I wasn’t angry when I told him that. O:	You weren’t angry?

	J:	No ma’am. You have to tell people the truth. You got to be so happy when you tell people the truth, that you can feel it in the inside of ya. You feel good in the





inside when you done told somebody the truth. The kind that hound you. It’s good to cry. I tell people I cry all the time. I ain’t hungry; I ain’t outdoor. I’m crying because I’m happy. That’s why I’m crying. I’m crying because the Lord fed us another chance to put our gift to work, put our knowledge where it’s supposed to be at, our work. Because we can tell somebody else about what we did and show them about what we did. Show people and construction always been something I love. ‘Cause there was men’s behind me. I talk to them; I talk to some mens every day that running big company. They run big companies. And I stop. Sometimes I cry.

	O:	Why did you cry Ms. Johnson?



	J:	[Crying] ‘Cause he done moved up. I see him moved up and running big companies. And they said, “Man if it wasn’t for me, I wouldn’t be doing this.” I said, “No thank God.” They said, “Man you taught us.” They said, “I’m so proud of you.” And I cried. I see them almost every day. I go around and talk to them, ask them how they doing and stay in touch with them. They said, “Man you hired a crew of men.” Said, “I thought they were sanctified people. They wasn’t cussing; they wasn’t fighting; they wore their pants up. And you respected us man. And you give us opportunity to do things ‘cause if we didn’t know what we doing, you say, go back there and I’m coming right back behind me and show you.” And they said, “We was able enough to learn.” They talked to me, said, “I ain’t never had a boss like you man. And I feel good at night ‘cause I done showed somebody and I ain’t never been afraid. That you’ll know more than I know. Go





ahead on and learn.” “Man you can learn more than I know, that’s why imma teach y’all.” And I love teaching. Yeah I love that, I love what I’m doing.

	O:	I can tell.



	J:	Like people, like what you’re doing, you got to love that. And you can go further, just need a little boost. Go to the right people, they can boost ya. There’s money in this town. Do you hear me? When I came here there was people buying high- rises and three and four million dollar high-rises. People come from all everywhere. This hurt but keep going. [Crying] Keep going. The Lord got your blessing in his hand. And people got the money. Did you hear me? I thought about you coming up that road there last night. [inaudible 7:00] Kindly put things together. But don’t be disencouraged. Do you here me? There is somebody and he’ll help your program on up that ladder. Program need to go to the top. Hear me? A lot of people live. A lot of people live off their gift. Why you can’t live off yours? Do you hear me?

	O:	Yes.



	J:	A lot of people live off their gift. There are people that sell people’s ideas and make money and some of the ideas are just as crooked and wrong and it ain’t straight. And they sell ideas. This world been selling ideas ever since it’s been a world. They sell people’s ideas and they make money off your ideas. And that’s what they been doing. You look sometimes, sometimes you look boy this time is so hard but just keep on going up the road. God will make a way for our gift. Do you hear me? We’re gifted people and only thing we want to do is just do better. We don’t want to take nobody else’s spot. We got a spot. Do you hear me? We





don’t want to be better than no one else. We don’t want to do that but we want to be great like they are. That’s what we want to do, we want to be great too. And we great. We great when we lay down at night thank God more for what we doing. Thank God for the men that working with you, health patients come later on down that line they’ll be able to— somebody got some money somewhere. Do you hear me?

	O:	Yes. We’re gonna need some money to put this all together.



	J:	To sponsor ya. If anybody know where the money at, Fred Glossie Atkins. [Laughter]

	O:	Fred knows where it’s at huh?



	J:	Twenty years been down to the city. If anybody can help you, got to him. O:	All right well I am going to him.

	J:	I want you to go to him. You hear me? Because I talked about you this morning. O:	You did?

	J:	Yeah I talked to him about you this morning. O:	Who?

	J:	I talked to Fred this morning. We talk all the time on the phone. O:	Did you?

	J:	Yeah talk to him, he said, he kinda slow running. But I said, “Man you could help her. You know people got money.” Do you hear me? All you got to do is speak [Laughter]. Do you hear me? Their organizations got money. He’s been helping churches get money, why he can’t help you?

	O:	All right, okay. I hear you Mr. Johnson.





	J:	—and pour them over there in that building and went to some donor and write it down and give over $250,000 to the organization and why can’t they give you no money? Ain’t nothing but a write-off.

	O:	Nothing but a write-off.



	J:	You see what I’m talking about? At the end of the year [Laughter]. O:	Nothing but a write-off! All right!

	J:	And I’ll put your name out there, that you donate me. I don’t care! You hear me? ‘cause that’s what you want anyway. You hear me? You want anything from me and I’ll do that. Thank you for sponsoring us. See what I’m talking about. They got money in this town. That’s why everybody come here.

	O:	There’s money in this town.



	J:	Don’t nobody know what the people got in this town. This a millionaire town. O:	It’s a millionaire town.

	J:	People come from everywhere, all over the world here. That’s why they live on Longboat Key paying all that money, they don’t care. But I like my little area. My little area helping to me. That’s why I don’t talk bad about my area. When people say, “Mr. Johnson you know they drew a gun on the main people?” My boss man used to come out and shoot pool with us and nobody laid their hands up on him. Do you hear me? He said, “Do you think it’s safe come here.” He found him a lady out here too.

	O:	Uh-uh.



	J:	Do you hear me? He said, “Is it okay if I talk to that lady?” I said, “Yeah that’s a single lady.” I said, “They ain’t gonna do nothing to you. They ain’t gonna do





nothing to you sir. People be glad you in that purse spending your money. Lady be glad to get her a new car from you.” [Laughter] He laughed. But it’s been fun. Keep on going, can’t worry about spilled milk.

O:   That’s right. That’s right.



J:   We got to just keep on going and do better.



	O:	Keep on going. Learning from our ancestors, learning from you all.



	J:	We can learn and we can go on up the mountain ‘cause this a hill we climbing and if we ain’t ready to climb it, let us just give up and walk away.

	O:	Can’t do that.



	J:	Yeah. People want us to walk away ‘cause someone else can come in line and say no sir, I know about these people, these my people I’m talking about. That’s what I tell people.

	O:	Mr. Johnson you— [End of Interview]





	Final edit by:	Sandra Romero, November 5, 2020