AAHP 053B; Felder; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 053B Alonzo Felder African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Justin Dunnavant and Marna Weston on October 17, 2012 43 minutes | 19 pages



Abstract: In this follow-up interview to Felder’s first interview in 2010, Felder discusses his work in diagramming his family tree. He says that it began in 1996 when his mother passed. He wanted to know more about his lineage and meet relatives outside of his immediate family. He explains that his grandmother moved to St. Petersburg, Florida to live with her aunt and this is where many of his family members stayed. The interviewer and the interviewee go back and forth discussing the details of Albert Sydney James Allen, also known as A.S.J, who was Felder’s great grandfather. Felder had been working for eight years collecting information on his murder. Dunnavant and Felder talk about strategies for uncovering more information on the story as well as on the burning of a Black church formerly called Mt. Pleasant Plains.





Keywords: [African American History; Family History; Genealogy; Alachua County, Florida]









































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 053B

Interviewee: Alonzo Felder

Interviewer: Justin Dunnavant and Marna Weston Date: October 17, 2012

	F:	—are what I would call “family lore,” that may not show up in any of the articles.



And that is, I—I think, Marna, you might remember, I had a one hundred and three-year-old cousin there in Gainesville who recently passed away. And she was Essie Singleton. Paul and I had interviewed Essie a while back, and I was recently watching some of those tapes, of that interview, and just going back over what she knew about ASJ’s murder. And one of the things that kind of struck me, as I was watching the tapes: we’ve got this story from the newspaper of, you know, two of the men, Shaw and Allen; they’re at the fence. Apparently, there were other people who, quote, congregated, end quote, with ASJ, and were threatening or taunting Shaw. Well, I guess a part of that crowd, according to my cousin Essie, was her mom, which would have been ASJ’s daughter, Ella. Ella Allen Doby. She would have been a child at the time. She was there, and Essie tells the story that she was actually there and holding grandpa’s hand as he was shot.

	W:	How do you spell “Doby?” F:	D-O-B-Y.

	D:	D-O-B-Y, okay.



	F:	Right. So.



	W:	And also, one other question: Essie Singleton: is she related, by chance, to any of the Singleton—the African American Singletons in the Monteocha-Gordon community? Because that’s a family—

	F:	I have no idea. She married Sam, Samuel Singleton, and I know absolutely





nothing about any of his people.



	W:	Okay. But we do have a good group of Singletons that are on 40-acre-and-a- mule-type land in the eastern part of the county.

	F:	Okay, all right. So, that was her husband. They did not—well, they had no children together. She, Essie actually had a son before marrying Sam. And their marriage date was December 24th, 1929, is when they got married.

	W:	Do you know where they were married?



	F:	I can’t say right now. If I could pull up my ASJ records, it wouldn’t surprise—well, no, no, no, that would be too late. No, I don’t. I don’t know. Let’s see, I’m on the Alachua County Clerk site. If I go through their marriage, let’s see, Ancient Records, and I put in “Singleton,” and let’s see what I come up with. Ooh, my goodness! Yes, there are a lot of them! Okay. Here we go: Sam Singleton and Essie Mae Doby, married 1929, they were married by D.D. Hiers, H-I-E-R-S. So again, if you go to the Ancient Records site, you can pull up the wedding certificate. Or, license. I’m looking at it right now. It doesn’t say where—well, actually, hold on here. “Holy state of matrimony, in Gainesville Florida,” but that’s all it says.

	W:	Okay. It’s a breadcrumb, though. That’s a good one. D:	Mmhm.

	F:	Yeah. So, anyway, that’s really the only other nugget I have on it, is just that—I take that back: she did say something else, that Paul got a big chuckle out of, and that was the shooting had nothing to do with the fence. And when she said that, we both kind of looked at each other a little strange, and thought, “Okay, tell





us more.” According to Essie, Mr. Shaw was, quote, “messing with one of the girls.”

	W:	Mmm.



	F:	Yeah. But she is the only person I’ve heard that from, and I have no idea, you know, if that’s true or not.

	D:	Right.



	F:	However, there were kids at home in 1904. So, I guess anything’s possible.



	D:	Yeah. Okay. So, that was—and you said, Essie wasn’t the one that was with her father, it was Ella that was with—

	F:	Right, Essie’s mother, Ella, was with them.



	D:	Okay. Did she tell you—besides that interview, have you heard any other stories from family members about—

	F:	I have not. And, you know, I’ve been researching this for eight years, now. [Laughter] So, I may have stumbled upon some new relatives, and maybe there’s some more info out there. Just this week, I discovered a new branch of the family. Am trying to find more about the Limbricks, because in—as you can see in the stuff that I’ve done on the whole family, the oldest family member I come up with are Shed and Phyllis Limbrick, and they’re buried there in Mt. Nebo.

Well, I started doing some web searching on Limbricks, and I came up with their great-granddaughter, who yesterday turned eighty-four years old. She lives in Tallahassee, Florida. And she says she has a first cousin who’s always going to Mt. Nebo and doing research. So I’m waiting to get some contact information on him, to find out if he knows anything more about the Limbricks and also about





ASJ. Literally, that just happened on Monday.



	D:	Oh, wow. Do you have a name for him?



	F:	Yeah, this is Arnett Girardeau. I think I’m saying it right. And let me get the, pull up my info on him. And, he’s quite a character in and of himself. What happened was, I was going through, doing some searching, and I came up with a Jacksonville Times-Union article on a birthday celebration for Annette Limbrick Hill. And that is the woman I ended up contacting. Annette is a name that I recognize. She and my mom knew each other. Let’s get the relationships: ASJ married Diona Limbrick. One of Diona’s brothers was Z.D. Limbrick. Z.D. Limbrick had twins, Otis and Louis. Otis had a daughter, Annette. That’s who I talked to. [Laughter] All right? And, aside from the twins, there was also a girl whose name was Annette. Annette was named after her aunt. Well, she married Arnett Girardeau. Arnett Girardeau was the first African American elected to the Senate in Florida. Went to the Senate in 1982. He and his son, Arnett, Jr., are my contacts for right now, and apparently Arnett is retired from government, and now has nothing to do but research family history. Yeah.

	D:	Sounds perfect! [Laughter] Okay. Maybe you can help: how did you initially get interested in this research, and learn about Rev. Allen?

	F:	Well, quite honestly, it was therapy. And what I mean by that, my—oh gosh, when did this really start? This actually started back in [19]96. In September of [19]96, my mom died. And that left me with a feeling of being absolutely alone. Shortly after—really, a couple years—after she died, my dad died. But with the passing of my mom, it was real obvious to me that there were five Felders in the





world. Or, at least, at that time there were four. My son hadn’t gotten married yet. There were four Felders in the world, and we all lived in the same house. I felt very isolated, very alone. And growing up, there had always been a picture of ASJ in the house. I knew that was my grandmother’s dad, and she had a photo album which, before she had passed away, I had taken the photo album and remounted all the pictures for her. I had that photo album, and started thumbing through it one day, just sort of looking at the pictures. And you know, it just dawned on me that I needed to know more. I felt like I really didn’t know a whole lot of where I came from, but all of the sudden here I was, and everybody that was really related to me was one or two rooms away from me at the time. So, I started doing some digging, and essentially started diagramming a family tree, and filling in the names, based on the pictures that I had in the photo album. And that’s kind of how it got started. There were stories about my grandfather and my great-grandfather, and I figured, well, I’d always accepted them as fact, but I figured, you know, let me see if I can find some newspaper clippings and put some documentation to it. And that’s when I discovered that, you know, all family lore is not necessarily true! [Laughter] And it’s fairly addictive—at least, it is to me. Once I got started, I didn’t know when to put it down.

	D:	Yeah. Were there any stories that stuck out to you?



	F:	They’re all interesting. I know that doesn’t do you a hill of beans’ worth of good. [Laughter] But, quite honestly, all of it was exciting to me, in that I try and figure out: where was my family? What was our place in history? And I guess, I grew up—it started with the house. I mean, I grew up in the house that my





grandmother and my grandfather built in 1923. I grew up listening to stories from my mom about the building of the house. I mean, they literally lived in it as they were building it. So that was one of those things that came up. My mom was absolutely, had a paralyzing fear of birds. The reason for that is, owls nested in the rafters while the house was being built. So, she didn’t sleep a lot during that time period, because of all the owls in the rafters of the house. [Laughter] Which I thought was, you know, kind of interesting. I’ve got pictures of the house after it was completed, with my mom, and my grandmother, and my grandfather all standing in front of their newly-built house. And you know, it’s—like, okay, that’s 1923. Why’d they build such a big house? I mean, like I say, I grew up in this house. It was about seven bedrooms, three baths, a huge two-story house. And I’m thinking, “Wow, that seems like a whole lot!” But then, I looked at some of the other pictures and names in our family album: I’ve got a lot of what I call “fictive kin.” And that came about because, when the Depression hit at the end of the [19]20s, our house served as a boarding house. So my Aunt Rose really isn’t my Aunt Rose. When you look at the Census, she was a boarder. And along with a number of other, you know, fictive aunts and uncles that I grew up with. So it kind of, it helped me to see, okay, this is the character, this is the kind of people that I came from. They were nurturers. They looked after people. They built a little bit more than they needed so they could share. And that’s sort of been the family history that I knew in growing up. So, those are the kind of stories that struck me. With my grandfather, I think I’ve shared with you the story that appeared in the newspaper about him going to jail for having said disparaging words about the





military—which never made any sense to me, since he was in the military. But, you know, as I read these stories, and I get more familiar with the journalism of the day, and just the plight of African Americans during the 1917-1918 period, these stories take on a little different light for me.

	D:	Mmhm. And this actually brings up a good question that I had: this house was in St. Pete, is that correct?

	F:	Yeah. In St. Petersburg, Florida.



	D:	Could you talk a little bit about how your family ended up in St. Petersburg?



	F:	Yeah. When ASJ was shot, his two youngest children—my grandmother, Fannie, and her brother, Wilbert—they were two years apart in age. So, grandma would have been, she was born in 1900, so she would have been four, and my Uncle Wilbert was six. When he was killed, something had to happen with the kids.

Well, my Aunt Phyllis—so, that is Diona’s sister, ASJ’s wife Diona’s sister—she lived in St. Petersburg. She petitioned to get guardianship of my grandmother and my uncle. And I’ve got those papers, you know, letters that she wrote, for guardianship of the two children. They—she moved them with her to St.

Petersburg. So, that is how the family really got going there in St. Pete. At the time, it seems like it was just Phyllis living there, but then my Uncle Wilbert and my grandmother, as adults, they stayed in St. Pete. And here again, you look at the 1930 Census, and you see that her sisters also lived in our house in St. Pete. So, St. Petersburg sort of became the place to go during the Depression—during and around, I guess, 1929, 1930. And my mom was born there in St. Pete, and like I say, I grew up in the same house. My grandfather, Ned, who also has his





roots in Gainesville, apparently came—I don’t know when—but at some point, he



ended up in St. Petersburg. And that’s where they married and built a house.



	D:	Oh, okay. Did Aunt Phyllis have an occupation, or—?



	F:	Housewife, as far as I know? Let me—I do have an old census that I can try and look up. Let’s see, here. I don’t see it right offhand. If you—are you guys connected to the internet right now?

	D:	Yeah.



	F:	Okay. Well—all right. So if you go to my website, and you click on, go down to “Mitchell,” and you’ll see “Phyllis Limbrick Hamilton Mitchell.”

	D:	Mmhm.



	F:	And the picture that shows there, you’ll see Uncle Charlie, Aunt Phyllis, and then my grandmother. And that’s actually my cousin Sunny in her arms. So…

	D:	It’s the duke.edu, backslash Felder—yeah. F:	Uh-huh. Slash—okay.

	D:	Squiggly-Felder-zero-one [~felder01].



	F:	Okay, so on the left, scroll on down to “Mitchell,” and you’ll see Phyllis Limbrick Hamilton Mitchell.

	D:	Okay. [Clicking] Hm. It doesn’t seem to be coming up with the left side. F:	Oh, you’re not seeing the name index?

	D:	Yeah, no name index on this side. It says, “Glad to be here,” “Welcome”— F:	Oh, oh! You’re, you made it through the little slideshow part, or--are you in

/family?



	D:	Oh, no.





	F:	Okay, yeah. Do a slash-family. D:	Okay, I see it now. Gotcha.

	F:	Alrighty. So now on that left side, scroll down to “Mitchell.” D:	Okay. I see here now, Phyllis.

	F:	Okay. So there they are. That’s a side view of the house. But the two people on the far left there, that’s Charlie and Phyllis. And she’s really the reason that we ended up in St. Petersburg. And I’m not sure why she decided to leave Gainesville and go there. [Laughter]

	D:	Right. Okay. And I also heard, in addition to the assassination of Reverend Allen, there were some other cousins?

	F:	Yes. Stephen Doby was also shot by ASJ Allen, and I do have a newspaper article—I think I’ve sent that to you—on that one. Apparently, as Shaw put it, Steve was “one of his good Negroes,” and he just didn’t understand why he’d do such a thing. He apparently was working at the Shaw house, and went into the house, and shot Shaw’s infant son.

	D:	Oh, wow.



	F:	Yeah. So, Shaw let loose the dogs, and the guns, and they hunted him down in the ditch outside the house, and that was the end of him.

	D:	Have you found any newspaper clippings or anything related to that? F:	That’s all I have is the newspaper report.

	D:	Ah, okay.



	F:	Yeah.



	D:	And that year was in 1905?





	F:	Let’s see. I don’t know, I don’t have—see, I’m at work right now, I don’t have— and all my data is on my home computer.

	D:	Ah, okay.



	F:	Let me do a quick search. Here. And let’s see if, what I can find on Stephen Doby. I don’t have any files here locally on that. But I can jot myself a note here and mail that to you this evening.

	D:	Yeah, okay. That’s interesting. So it was after that—



	F:	And I found that, really, through a local genealogist there in Gainesville, on one of the—you know, Cousins.com or whatever. They had a little box for if you would like to have somebody look into a family name or whatever, give them the details. So I ended up with this husband and wife team who were quite excited about finding out about all the bad stuff on the Shaws. [Laughter] It seemed like every week, they’d send me old and new newspaper articles, of Shaw Farms when it was—I mean, right now, Shaw Farms is what, a very extensive residential area. When the farm itself was going under, I used to get practically weekly emails going, “Ah-ha! They’re getting what they deserve!” [Laughter] You know, “They’re losing the farm!” And you know, these folks were the ones who actually—the woman would spend hours at the Alachua County Public Library, and she was the one who found the articles telling me about the murder. That “Shaw just didn’t have good feelings toward your family. He’s killed another Doby!” [Laughter]

	D:	Wow. Okay, and it was after this initial incident that grandparents moved to St.



Pete? Or was it—





	F:	Well, they moved to St. Pete right after—Grandma was moved to St. Pete right after the murder, she and my Uncle Wilbert. And I’m thinking it was a couple years later that the incident happened with him killing Stephen.

	D:	Mmhm. Okay.



	F:	But there was—I guess, fair to say there was still some emotion in the community there. Again, I refer back to the interview that Paul and I did with my cousin Essie. What struck me was, here’s this woman, we’re sitting there talking to her, she is a hundred and three years old, and Paul asked a question of, “What was life like,” you know, “growing up there in Alachua County?” And she welled up in tears as she talked about walking to school as a child. And the reason for the tears is, her walk to school took her in front of the Shaws’ house. And that was a scary thing that still affected this woman a hundred years later. Which I found absolutely phenomenal.

	D:	Okay. So we got to St. Pete. I guess, tied to this, I came across some information about a possible burning of Mt. Pleasant Plains Church?

	F:	Well, of Mt. Nebo, as far as I know. Here’s—I don’t know anything about the Mount Pleasant Plains. If you look in the minutes of the Methodist Church conference—every year during the late 1800s, early 1900s, they published a yearly annual book of their minutes. And I can go through there—and I think I sent you some copies—but you can always look them up online for all the years. But as you go through the years, starting from about 1890 on through the early, say, to 1910, what I do is I look for the names “Allen” and “Limbrick.” And I’m seeing their names throughout. Now, when I look for “Allen,” I see ASJ. And he’s





listed usually just as the initials “A.S.J.” or some combination of his name, which was Albert Sydney James Allen. So sometimes he’s, you know, “A. Sydney James,” or you know, “A.J. Allen.” But the assign—they always show the church assignment. And his church assignment seems to have consistently been Mt.

Nebo. Now, I do see that he did have an assignment and preached at a church in Jonesville, which is called Mt. Pleasant. Or not “Mount,” is it?

	D:	Pleasant Plains, I think.



	F:	Pleasant Plains. So right now, I haven’t done any research, I don’t know anything about Pleasant Plains. But the story of the church burning, that comes from when one of my trips there to Gainesville, Paul and I were going through the cemetery, and we talked with the preacher there at the church, and I noticed the cornerstone on the church building. The cornerstone has two dates on it. And I thought, “Well, that’s really strange.” You know, you usually just have the date it was put in. And my cousin Dot was with us, and I asked her, “What’s the deal here? Why do I see—why do you have two dates on the corner stone?” And her response was, “Well, this building was built on top of the other one.” And I said, “Well, what happened to the original?” And she says, “Oh, the White people blew it up.” So, all I know is—and I believe it is 1968, is the second date on there—so I have been looking through Gainesville Sun, Daily Sun, Florida Times-Union, trying to figure out, in 1968, was there a rededication or anything that would give me the story of what happened here. Because I figure if the new stone says [19]68, if it was blown up, or burnt, or destroyed, that was probably in [19]67 or [19]68. I might be too limited in my scope. It may have taken them longer to





actually rebuild. But that would be the church at Mt. Nebo, which, since that name is what they were calling it in the 1800s, I didn’t think to look in a different location, Jonesville, for Pleasant Plains.

	D:	Okay. We can definitely try to explore Pleasant Plains a little bit more, just to see what information comes up.

	F:	Yeah. And with the mention of Pleasant Plains, that might be the place we need to look to find the burial site for A.S.J. and Diona. Because they are not at Mt.

Nebo, at least not that we have found yet.



D:  Right. Right. Definitely. Do I have any other questions? Oh—do you have any idea who would be a good contact to get more information about the Mt. Nebo situation? I know not too many people know about the story.

	F:	Yeah. I really don’t. I have talked already with the current preacher there, and he didn’t know a whole lot. There’s a professor over at Santa Fe, Shirley [Sherry] DuPree, who seems to do a lot of research, especially religious heritage, there in the area. But she didn’t know anything about it. And like I say, I was kind of exhausting my relatives, but now I’ve come across a new branch of relatives.

You know, wear them out with it. [Laughter]



D:  Ah, okay. Yeah, well, we can look into that. That will definitely be a good start, at least for these next coming weeks. To go from there—I have a priority of trying to locate his death record.

F:   Oh, okay. Wonderful.



D:   So, I think if we can get the—



	F:	Oh, you know what else? And I just thought about this a while back, and quickly





forgot it—I was just there for a funeral of one of my cousins, last month, and the people that did her funeral was Chestnut Funeral Home. Well, Chestnut Funeral Home is a Black-owned, historically-Black service, funeral home. And I’m not sure who else might have been in the area back in 1904. And I don’t know if they have records or not. But that was one place, I thought, they might actually have burial records, or have at least know some sort of, “Yes, this person, we did embalm him, we did bury him, and here’s where.” To be able to locate A.S.J. and Diona.

	D:	Yeah, I was just talking with Marna earlier today about this, and he mentioned I should try to stop by there early next week, and possibly look for some archives if they have any archives available, or any other information. Okay, yeah. So we’ll definitely look into that, then. That’ll be first. I was also, I wanted to try to locate some of these court records for the Allen trial, from when they tried—

	F:	Oh, yeah. Yeah.



	D:	I don’t know if anything would have materialized.



	F:	The person to talk to there would be Jim Powell. And I know there’s a lot of stuff in his warehouse that he has not put on the Ancient Records site. But he would be the one I guess I would start with. And as far as the attorneys themselves, I mean, you’ve got the names, their names. If they have any records—you know, obviously they’re long gone, but they may be associated with firms, or I don’t know, if you’re a single practicing attorney, if you keep your records, and if they are just inherited by your family when you pass away. I don’t know what happens to those.





	D:	Right.



	F:	But because—I’m thinking, because the grand jury did a, basically a no-show for the grand jury thing—what am I trying to say?

	D:	There might not be documentation?



	F:	If it didn’t pass the grand jury, it never went to court. It never went to trial.



Therefore, we may not have anything other than, just—I mean, I sent you the picture from the grand jury ledger book, of where these folks all signed in. But I don’t know that there were any transcripts during a grand jury investigation.

Because it’s not really a court proceeding or a hearing. The other place that I looked, and didn’t have a lot of success, was the Oddfellows and Masons. I think they must think they’re a secret society, and they don’t tell people what’s going on. [Laughter] But I’ve not been able to find out anything by contacting, like, the Alachua County Oddfellows and Masons. They don’t seem to be real excited about telling me anything about why they took up this cause. Because they were the ones who hired the attorneys.

	D:	Yeah. Okay. So I’ll definitely look into that, too. I think those are most of the questions I had.

	F:	Allrighty. Marna? You’re pretty silent over there.



	W:	I think you just covered it. You know, the thing is, you were having—it’s almost like it’s ESP. We had many of these discussions before you called, so you’re filling in the pieces for us, and I thought that Justin asked good questions to give us some breadcrumbs to follow.

	F:	Yeah. Justin, another lead might be the coroner. And the reason I’m thinking of





that is, I watch way too much NCIS. So, Ducky, in our case, he keeps great records. I don’t know if Bell, who was the coroner on this case, if he kept any records. The sheriff obviously was called in, made the arrest, visited the scene. So, I don’t know if there would be anything, either in Sheriff Fennell’s records, or in Coroner Bell’s records, that have survived.

	W:	I think the coroner is especially important, as you noted, because they’re the ones that made the determination of it being justified or not. So there’s a lot—it all depended on that person’s disposition—you know, ritually, socially. So finding as much as possible on that person really helps make a compelling narrative.

Because the act itself of course is heinous, and unforgivable, and just monstrous. But here’s this person, this human being, that basically signed off on it.

	F:	Yeah. Yeah. That’s true.



	W:	So that thing is the crux of the story. The more we can find about the coroner, the more we can—or, the nature of government that led the coroner to be directed by whoever, the sheriff, or the county commission, or whoever was able to put that pressure to say that it was justified. Because the crime started at the scene, but the conspiracy began when the coroner signed the “justifiable death.”

	F:	Right. So that would, if you look at the Gainesville Daily Sun, the October 10th, 1904, that article, that’s where—you know, the subheading there is “Coroner’s Jury investigated.” And that’s where it gives all the details I know of the Shaw exonerated of justifiable homicide. And kind of gives the roll call of the players involved there. And the October 13th follow-up article gives a little bit more.

	D:	Mmhm. All right, definitely. Yeah. Okay, I guess I’ll get started on that, then. My





plan is to gather interns together and each week, try to hit a different archive or different library as a team.

	F:	Okay. All right.



	D:	Until they get comfortable with it. And then maybe they can start doing some research on their own.

	F:	Sounds good. One thing I don’t know is, most of my research has been through the Gainesville and the Jacksonville newspapers. Were there active newspapers in other communities? I mean, I’m thinking places like Citra, Palatka, Ocala. You know, there are other areas that I think would have been publishing during this time period. But at least, I’ve not been able to find any articles on the murder itself.

	W:	Well, we can check to see if there are things like—you know, news sheets, shiny sheets, in some of the majority Black areas, like the Scrubtown area, or other places around, you know, within Alachua County proper that maybe aren’t called today what they used to be called.

	F:	Gotcha. All right. That makes sense.



	D:	Yeah, that should be good. And University of Florida has, I believe, the largest collection of historic newspapers in Florida, so.

	F:	Super.



	D:	We should be able to find something.



	F:	All right. You’re going to need that Five-Hour Energy! D:	Yeah! [Laughter] I stick to coffee. But. [Laughter]

	F:	All right, guys.





	D:	All right. Thanks again, definitely.



	F:	Okay. All right. I appreciate your interest, and I’ll look forward to seeing what we can dig up here.

	W:	Later, Alonzo.



	F:	Allrighty. Take care. D:	Sounds good, you too. F:	All right, bye.

	D:	All right, bye. [Phone call concludes.]

	D:	For the record, this was Justin Dunnavant, with Marna Weston, and Cindy Bobadilla, talking to Alonzo Felder, the great-grandson of A.S.J. Allen. Today’s date is October 17th, and the time currently is 3:48 pm.

[End of recording]





	Transcribed by:	Ryan Morini, November 25, 2014 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, April 28, 2017

	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019