AAHP 091; Smith; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 091 Geraldine Smith African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on June 14, 2010 29 minutes | 22 pages





Abstract: Geraldine Smith was born June 14, 1942 and is the cousin of the interviewer Marna Weston. She was born and raised in Autryville, North Carolina. She reflects on her childhood growing up and working on a farm. She mentions her early education at Lonely Hill, as well as Union Hill Baptist Church, and J.W. Seabrook, the first Black school. She discusses voting and working in factories the Cedar Creek district during segregation. She mentions organizing at her jobsite to desegregate a Whites-only bathroom. She recalls hearing about events like President Kennedy’s assassination,

Martin Luther King Jr’s assassination, the election of Barack Obama

[Keywords: African American History, North Carolina, Freedom Riders, segregation, desegregating, historical events]





Standards:

S.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.

SS.912.A.2.5 Jim Crow laws SS.912.A.7.5 Social activism SS.912.A.7.7 Freedom Summer SS.912.A.7.7 Freedom Rides























For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 091

Interviewee: Geraldine Smith Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: June 14, 2010





	W:	This is June 14, 2010. This is Marna Western for the Oral History Program of the University of Florida and for my family and on their behalf I'm interviewing my cousin, Geraldine Marie Smith. And today happens to be her birthday, so, happy birthday Geraldine.

	S:	Thank you.



	W:	And thank you for doing the interview. S:	Okay.

	W:	Could you please spell your full name?



	S:	Capital G-E-R-A-L-D-I-N-E, Geraldine. M-A-R-I-E, Marie. S-M-I-T-H, Smith. W:	And you were born of course on June 14th, what year?

	S:	1942.



	W:	And where were you born? S:	Autryville, right over there.

	W:	Um, you’re pointing right over there but see if somebody is listening to this they wouldn't know where you were pointing.

	S:	Okay. In Autryville…



	W:	At your grandparent's house.



	S:	Yeah, at my grandparents’ house, yeah.



	W:	And we are right next door. Where about what, like five hundred yards from where you were born?

	S:	Maybe.



	W:	So that house is—





	S:	Back there.



	W:	South of us. We are on the South side of highway 210 in Autryville, North Carolina. Okay. What was it like growing up here in Autryville?

	S:	When I worked on the farm, we had to walk down the road to the farm. I forgot how many miles, maybe about five or six miles down the road. Got into the field to farm and then we sometime we take soot on a mule and wagon and we get to the field we put the soot out by the corn. And then sometimes we work in the back or suck on tobacco, something like that. Then hot potatoes down there sweet potatoes. Then we get ready together, in [inaudible 02:08] we would gather the tobacco. I would the string the 'bacco, I would tie the 'bacco on the sticks. I mean at that time we tied the 'bacco. Sometime I would prop the 'bacco from the field.

	W:	What was your favorite job? S:	I love to string the 'bacco.

	W:	What was it that you liked about stringing tobacco? Can you explain why you liked that and what you did?

	S:	I liked it because they would hand it to me then I would tie it on the stick. W:	Did you have a special way of tying the tobacco on the stick with a string?

	S:	Sometime I would tie, then I would tighten and flip it over the stick. There were different ways you could do it, but I like to tie and just flip it over the stick. I don't know how you say it, I forget this a lot. That was one of my favorite jobs and another one was digging potato like they dig potato. When the time come, I would dig the potatoes pick 'em up and put 'em in a bag. And I like to feed the





chickens and the hogs.



	W:	Who were your mother and father?



	S:	My mother was named May Ellis Smith-Robinson and my dad was named Roy Theo Robinson.

	W:	What do you know about their parents? Start with your dad's mother and father.



	S:	Well, I just know my dad's mother and father, that's all I know. But now my mother's father, mother and father, they raised me. They raised me from baby up.

	W:	What are their names?



	S:	Firsty Smith was my lady's name and Nestor was his father's name. W:	So that was your mom's mother and father?

	S:	Mmhm.



	W:	So what do you know about their parents?



	S:	I don't know anything, I just heard tell all. I don't know nothing about them. W:	Well what have you heard tell?

	S:	I heard that they was good people. That’s all I know and the love the Word, that's all I know.

	W:	Do you know their names? S:	I can't think right now.

	W:	Mmhm. So, your grandparents raised you? S:	Mmhm.

	W:	So just like they were your mom and dad too? S:	Right, mmhm.





	W:	What was it like growing up in the home that you grew up in?



	S:	The home was good, you know, we didn't have everything. We had no running water and no bathroom.

	W:	No running water. What did you do if you didn't have running water and a restroom?

	S:	You washed in a wash pan. You would heat the water on the stove and wash up.



The bathroom was outside, they had a little outside toilet you go to outside.



	W:	Was it close to the house?



	S:	It was so many feet, I forgot. I wasn't real close 'cause you had to walk down to it. W:	Were there lights that lead down to it if you went to the bathroom at night?

	S:	No, at night you just go out there in the dark. They had no lights in the restroom. You knew where it was, like I went so much in the day time I knew where it was and sometime I have to go at night, I go there with no lights.

	W:	So if you didn't have any running water, how did you get water into your house? S:	We had a pump in the yard, we pump the water.

	W:	When you say you pumped it, how did—?



	S:	We pumped it in a bucket and then we take it in the house in the bucket. Then we heat in a kettle on the stove. But at that time the stove had what they call like a reservoir; you put the water in to heat the water. I can't think of the name of it, but it had something to put the water in to heat the water as you cook.

	W:	When you went to the pump, you went there and you pumped it and water automatically came out?

	S:	No, we had to get it started, had to pull the water down and get it started.





Because sometime it would stay cranked and sometime it wouldn't. If it got lost in the pump, put some water and prime the pump back up, then we get water out.

	W:	And you call that priming the pump? S:	Mmhm.

	W:	How often a day would you have to go out and get water and bring it back and forth for things?

	S:	We get it like early in the morning and late at night, twice a day. It would cook something, which we did cook, sometime we go in the middle of the day so we have enough water to wash up the veggies with and we have enough at night we get some more water.

	W:	Did you have other brothers and sisters?



	S:	No, just me. Just me and- no, just two of us. 'Cause all of us grown, except the grandchildren, but they just raised us.

	W:	So the children and the grandchildren were raised together? S:	Yeah.

	W:	So kind of as brothers and sisters.



	S:	Mmhm. I feel like I [inaudible 06:51], you know, I'm her daughter, I'm her sister. I was raised with her and [inaudible 06:56].

	W:	What are your earliest memories of going to school?



	S:	Well I started at Lonely Hill, name of the school was Lonely Hill about three miles up the road from where I live now.

	W:	Was it a big school or a little school?



	S:	Little school, one room school. From there I think I went to the sixth grade, no to





the fifth grade and the sixth grade went to the church and the seventh grade started at J.W. Seabrook, that's the first Black school.

	W:	What was the name of the church? S:	Union Hill Baptist.

	W:	So you went to school, sixth grade, at Union Hill Baptist Church?



	S:	Mmhm. To the school of fifth grade and then in sixth grade I went to the church then in seventh grade I went to J.W. Seabrook school. In the eighth grade I went to Armstrong School, that was high school.

	W:	Now, where was J.W. Seabrook School located? S:	On 210.

	W:	Okay, highway 210? S:	Mmhm.

	W:	But north of here? S:	Yeah.

	W:	Going towards Fayetteville, North Carolina? S:	Mmhm, mmhm.

	W:	That's not very close to here is it?



	S:	That's about eight miles up the road, I think. W:	So did you take the bus to school?

	S:	At that time yeah. But at first we walked to school, because the school, Union Hill, was just about four miles up the road. Everybody would get in a bunch and would walk up here and walk to the church too. And by that time when they got Seabrook's finished they had the busses, so we rode the bus to Seabrook's.





	W:	Did you ever have to walk there? S:	No, it was too far to walk.

	W:	Okay, yeah. Eight miles is twice as far as four miles. So, when you went to Seabrook's, who was your favorite teacher there?

	S:	Well, the principal, Mr. Locke, he was the principal; he was my teacher and the principal. And then I had one named Miss Callie, she was my favorite teacher.

	W:	What did she teach that you liked so much?



	S:	At that time she taught everything, not like say everything. W:	Why was she your favorite teacher?

	S:	I liked the way she wore her hair, I liked the way she dressed. I just liked her, 'cause she could dress so pretty. Always wore her hair up [laughter]. She was real nice.

	W:	Did you ever think about being a teacher, just like her? S:	Yes I did, long time ago. I really did.

	W:	So you left Seabrook's and then you went to Armstrong? S:	Mmhm, the high school.

	W:	Now, where was Armstrong located? S:	It was on 301 in Fayetteville.

	W:	Now, Fayetteville or over in Eastover?



	S:	Well, it was Fayetteville but it was called Eastover. W:	And how far is that from where we are right now?

	S:	Eastover, I don't know how many miles. It's a good piece. W:	More than ten miles?







S:



W:



S:



W:

More than that.



More than fifteen miles?



I say maybe about sixteen miles.



Okay, so between fifteen and twenty, sixteen miles?

S:

Mmhm.

W:

And so you took the bus to go over there?

S:

Mmhm.

W:

Okay. What was going to Armstrong High like?

S:

It was good because I started the eighth grade and I kept going up. But at the



eighth grade I had a favorite teacher named Miss O'Brien and Miss Landers.

W:

And what did they teach?

S:

Miss O'Brien was my home room teacher and then Miss Landers she taught



science.

W:

What part of science did you like?

S:

I don't know. I just like science [laughter].

W:

What kind of activities were you in in high school?

S:

I had to play ball.

W:

Basketball, football, softball?

S:

Basketball.

W:

You played basketball?

S:

Yeah.

W:

I never knew that.

S:

And then I played softball in the season.





	W:	Were you any good? S:	I thought I was.

	W:	What position did you play in basketball? S:	On the base?

	W:	No, in basketball.



	S:	Okay, I think it was called…You know when you play ball then, what you call that?

	W:	You got the players that play close to the basket, the forward, or the players that handle the ball, the guards and then you have the center. So where you one of the big players or one of the small players?

	S:	One of the small players. W:	So you were a guard.

	S:	Okay.



	W:	Did you like basketball?



	S:	I loved basketball. I really did. But never no football, I didn't play that. I didn't do that. I played basketball.

	W:	What about softball?



	S:	Softball [inaudible 11:47]?



	W:	No, no softball is where you have the bat. S:	That's the one with the bat?

	W:	Mmhm.



	S:	[Inaudible 11:52] I played softball, I said football, I mean basketball and then with the bat. What I call that?





	W:	Softball.



	S:	Okay. That's where I did really bad.



	W:	What else did you like to do in high school? Some of you favorite things?



	S:	Well, I liked the cooking, which was home ec. I love to cook and I love to sew.



And sometimes to write poems.



	W:	Do you remember any of the poems that you wrote? S:	Not really.

	W:	Do you still write poems now?



	S:	No, I got [inaudible 12:35] [laughter].



	W:	When you graduated in—what year was that? S:	[19]60.

	W:	Continuing the interview with Geraldine Smith on June 17th, 2010. We're talking about high school and we've come to graduation, so you graduated and you must have been really happy.

	S:	I was and then I got a job when I came out of school, working at Faber Linen. W:	Okay, what was that like?

	S:	It was like a work. You just like to launder for motels, hotels, material supplies for that. Motel, hotel, then cafe, we did supplies for that.

	W:	But that was in Fayetteville, now this is down in Autryville, so how did you get up there?

	S:	My daddy carried at first, my first job my daddy carried me. He would come from Denver to take me to Fayetteville. After that I worked for a while then he helped me get a car, my first car [19]60 Chevrolet, I'll never forget. And at that time we





wouldn't get to [inaudible 13:57] the center aisle. But I bought a car, my first car, never will forget.

	W:	What color was it? S:	Brown.

	W:	You really liked it? S:	I really liked it.

	W:	What did you like about your car? S:	'Cause it was my car.

	W:	[Laughter].



	S:	First car and I needed a car and thank God I got one [laughter].



	W:	So you must have been able to drive all you wanted cause gas was, what, ten cents a gallon or a quarter?

	S:	It was cheap, but I paid to get my driver's license. But see my grand-daddy learned me how to drive around the house and then when I got to where I could drive then my daddy let me use his car to go and get my driver's license.

	W:	What kind of car did he have?



	S:	He had a Chevrolet, I forgot what color but it was a Chevrolet. W:	Did you drive an automatic or was it a manual transmission?

	S:	It was automatic, but I learned on a stick. I straight shifted, I learned on the truck which was a straight shift, how to change the gears. But he had an automatic.

		W:	What do you like driving better, the automatic or the— S:		Automatic.

	W:	[Laughter].







S:



W:

I can drive both, but I love the automatic [laughter].

And do you still like Chevrolet or do you like Ford, what's your favorite kind of car?

S:

A Ford.

W:

Now, how can that be if you learned how to drive on a Chevrolet, you switched?

S:

I switched.

W:

[Laughter] Why did you switch?

S:

I got a Chevrolet first and then a second car I got was a Ford. A convertible



Mustang, Ford.

W:

What year Mustang was that?

S:

Um, I don't know.

W:

[19]64, [19]65?

S:

Hm, I might have been.

W:

What color was it?

S:

It was navy blue with a white top.

W:

Oh, that's a sporty car.

S:

I know, it was kinda cute.

W:

Was it a rag top or was it a hard top?

S:

I could put the top down, that second car, yeah.

W:

So you had a blue Mustang with a white convertible top?

S:

Mmhm.

W:

Ya'll was sporty!

S:

I know.







W:



S:



W:

[Laughter].

That's the best I could do then, but I really enjoyed it. Did you ever watch that Steve McQueen movie Bullet?

S:

Yeah.

W:

So were you Bullet when you were in your Mustang?

S:

No.

W:

No.

S:

[Laughter].

W:

You drove slow?

S:

Mmhm.

W:

Are you just saying that because we're on the interview? [Laughter]

S:

[Laughter] I don't drive fast now.

W:

But you still like Ford today?

S:

Mmhm.

W:

So after Fayetteville Linen, um—

S:

Then I went to Black and Decker.

W:

You went to Black and Decker, okay. And during this time, now, you were a



mother?

S:

Mmhm.

W:

Okay, so tell about your son.

S:

Well, during that time Victor got sick eleven months. I just got a job and what he



did, he rode on a truck to Fayetteville and got sick, caught a cold. So I carried



him to the doctor and he got alright and then at that time my aunt was washing





clothes and Victor played in the water and got wet and she didn't dry him off. I was working at that time and from then on he got sick, had to go in the hospital and stay a long time. The doctor said it's called “skull fever.” He liked the doctor. Thank God he did and from then he started having seizures, he still have a little now and then.

	W:	Now when was Victor born? S:	1961.

	W:	But he still lives with you today? S:	Mmhm.

	W:	Okay, so he has some developmental difficulties, but you love him and he's been with you the whole time?

	S:	Mmhm.



	W:	What's the thing you like most about your son Victor?



	S:	Well, he's smart. He love to work, he help me if he can. When he's feeling good, he help me. But then he worked at the workshop for a while, I got him a job, he love to go to work. But right now, he help me if he can, if he's able or feel good, I'll put it that way.

	W:	So now after you went to Black and Decker, what kind of a job did you have there?

	S:	Well, at first I build things for the lawn mower, like the motor. Had to put the motors together, that was my first job at Black and Decker. And then from there I had to start ordering parts, I forgot what they call it. I got a job ordering the parts for the job and so I worked on the computer a little bit and I liked that, I really did.





Then I got sick and when I came back, they kinda cut my job. I went back to working on the line. I was working making lawn mowers.

	W:	Now, how did you end up going to Black and Decker from Fayetteville Linen?



Was it you heard about the job and it was a better opportunity or what happened?

	S:	My girlfriend.



	W:	Continuing the interview with Geraldine Smith on June 14, 2010. Your girlfriend? S:	My girlfriend said, “Geraldine let's go to Black and Decker they hiring” and said,

“What?” She said “Let's go out there tomorrow 'cause it's hiring.” And so we went and they hired us and about a week later we started.

	W:	Now what was her name? S:	Katie Lockland.

	W:	Are you all still friends today?



	S:	Mmhm, mmhm. I still see her. And I had a cousin named Jackie Melvin, I see her too. We all three went together and we got hired.

	W:	Now, how far is this Black and Decker plant from where we are right now?



	S:	I wanna say it's about sixteen miles, 'cause I drove it. Some say about sixteen miles, 'cause it's on 301. See, I hit the new 95 then I make a right. I say sixteen miles. So when we got hired I started on seven they started on verse.

	W:	Shift?



	S:	Mmhm.



	W:	And what year did you start working there? S:	Let me think [laughter]. I think it was [19]68.





	W:	Okay and how long did you work there?



	S:	Well, I worked there for thirty-four years, it would have been, but I came out of an early retirement.

	W:	Were you sad when you retired or were you happy?



	S:	I was, 'cause I still wanted to work. But they were getting ready to close the place; I knew I had to come out.

	W:	So they went out of business or they moved the plant? S:	Yeah. They moved the plant to Mexico.

	W:	Oh my gosh.



	S:	Mmhm.



	W:	So, what have you done since your retirement?



	S:	Nothing, I just came out and been around the house. I want me a job [inaudible 21:02 - 21:05] [laughter].

	W:	Do you have any hobbies or do you volunteer in the community? S:	No.

	W:	Do you go to church?



	S:	I go to church. I work in church a lot. I been thinking about looking for me a job, I haven't figured that out yet [laughter].

	W:	Do you remember the first time you ever voted?



	S:	I don't remember, I remember I voted Steadman. I don't what year it was but I remember I voted.

	W:	Who was—oh, go ahead.



	S:	[Inaudible 21:31] Steadman now, then they sent me to Cedar Creek, but now I





could vote in [inaudible 21:36] because of the district.



	W:	So it switched around. S:	Mmhm.

	W:	Did you ever have any problems voting here? S:	No, uh-uh.

	W:	Now, you graduated 1960— S:	Right.

	W:	So that was just as things were really starting to change with the Freedom Riders and integration and the lunch counters.

	S:	Mmhm.



	W:	Was there any stuff like that going on around here?



	S:	Well, at that time, you know, the Black folks could not eat certain places. But that got straightened out, you know. I don't what year it was, but at first they couldn't. And when I started working at Fayetteville Linen we could not use one bathroom, because they had two bathrooms but one was for White people and they had one for the Black. Then we stopped it, we said we gonna use this bathroom so all the Blacks got together and started using that bathroom.

	W:	How did you know which bathroom was supposed to be used for who?



S:  Well, see the boss man told us that's for the White people. Ours was at the back and so the White was at the front, that's the way it was, but we stopped that. We got together and we started going to the front bathroom.

W:  How did you all get together? You talked about it after work or during breaks? S:   During work we talked about it, every chance we get we talked about it.





	W:	And what were people saying?



	S:	Yeah, they would say “Yes.” And someone [inaudible 22:59] we gonna do it, so we all [inaudible 23:01] to do so we all got together and did it.

	W:	How did the White employees react?



	S:	Well, they didn't like it, but they couldn't say nothing. All the Whites quit except one White lady.

	W:	They quit the job? S:	Yeah.

	W:	Because of the bathroom?



	S:	No, because they wasn't making but seventy-eight cent an hour, that's why they quit. And so just one White person was using the bathroom and we said “Why one person got a bathroom?” So we said we gonna do something about it and we did.

	W:	[Laughter] Do you think that was the times that made you speak up and react that way.

	S:	Yeah, mmhm.



	W:	Who was your favorite leader? You know somebody you aspired to? S:	You mean at my job?

	W:	Or wherever. Somebody you aspired to be like.



	S:	Well, on my job, Jackie Melvin, that was my cousin, Jackie Melvin. W:	Why did you aspire to be like Jackie?

	S:	Well, she was just fun. She started up everything she always did what she thought was right.





	W:	Do you remember where you were when you heard that President Kennedy got killed?

	S:	I was working at Black and Decker. W:	What was it like that day?

	S:	People so sad that day cause we just couldn't believe it. So the boss lady she came running and told us, everybody started crying, most of us. I had tears come to my eyes. It was just sad times.

	W:	Very surprising?



	S:	Mmhm.



	W:	What about when Martin Luther King was killed? S:	That was another sad time.

	W:	Do you remember where you were? S:	At Black and Decker.

	W:	Oh, so you were working both times. S:	Mmhm.

	W:	How did you find out?



	S:	Well, somebody told us, I think it came on the news or something, but the boss lady came and told us.

	W:	And what happened then, did everybody keep working or did everybody stop working?

	S:	We stopped at that moment, everybody stopped. I think we went home.



	W:	I wanna back up just a little bit and talk about some of the stuff that happened in Wilmington in the late [19]50s, early [19]60s. 'Cause there was a man named





Robert Williams who advocated armed self-defense, he was a Black man in Wilmington. Did you hear about him when you were in school?

	S:	Yeah, but I don't remember too much about him. But I heard about him. W:	So that was probably kinda controversial?

	S:	Mmhm.



	W:	When you think back on how things were in the 1960s and how things are today, what can you talk about as to what's different and why you think it's different?

	S:	Well, I think it's different because of the people, you know? We fought for what we think was right and now we got success, most of them.

	W:	Did you have a lot of classmates that fought in Vietnam War?



	S:	Some, not many. 'Cause a lot of them died, you know, before they even got in the army. Some went up the road and got killed, you know?

	W:	When you think about the election of Barack Obama, is that something that you thought would ever happen?

	S:	No, I didn't.



	W:	Why not?



	S:	Because he was Black. I never thought a Black man would be a president. I really didn't. It was just good to know that he was running, but still I had my doubts, because it was a Black man.

	W:	You had doubts about him or doubts about him winning?



S:  About him winning. I figured he could do, you know if White people could do it, why couldn't he do it. But I just had doubts about him winning, I thought surely they were gonna play some kind of trick.





	W:	Why did you think they might play some kind of trick? What do you mean? S:	Because, you know, White folks has always been in leader and its [inaudible

27:05] driving seat.



	W:	Are you talking a little bit about President Bush too?



	S:	No. President Bush, he wasn't my favorite president. I'm gonna tell you the truth.



He was so wishy-washy] or something of, 'cause he still [inaudible 27:24] too [laughter].

	W:	Well, I meant how the first time he beat Al Gore and then it took so long to figure out what happened. Was that kind of controversial around here? What did you think about that?

	S:	Well, I sorta thought they was cheating, I really did and I might be wrong. W:	What about the second time?

	S:	Well, a second time I know they was on each side, I knew that in the beginning.



	W:	If you could think back of anything in your life that has happened from 1960 when you graduated 'till now, what you say is the most significant event?

	S:	If I could think what would be like something good or...?



	W:	Most significant. So if you wanna go with something good, that's okay. Good is always good.

	S:	The best thing since 1960 'till now that we free. I mean we can go anywhere and can do just about anything we wanna do. Just about anything we wanna do. And the Black have a better time to do things, they're more successful than they were a long time ago.

	W:	You mentioned about the segregated bathroom, did you ever have to ride on the





back of the bus?



	S:	I don't remember that. I don't remember that. I heard talk of that but I don't remember that.

	W:	Geraldine Marie Smith, happy birthday. S:	Thank you.

	W:	Thank you for participating in this interview today. Thank you on behalf of our family and the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. I wanna thank you for taking the time to speak to me.

	S:	Okay.



	W:	And at the conclusion [phone rings] I like to set it up so you get to give a comment on the interview. So our interview will conclude after you have anything that you wanna say.

	S:	Well, Marna, I thank you for the interview and thank you for sharing some information with you, I really enjoyed it. God bless you [laughter].

[End Interview]









Transcribed by:

Justin Dunnavant



Audit edited by:

Sandra Romero

September 1,2017

Final-Edited by:

Sandra Romero,

June 23, 2021