AAHP 248B; Daniels; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 248B Mary Hall Daniels African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Ryan Morini on February 21, 2012 1 hour, 35 minutes | 44 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Mrs. Mary Hall Daniels recounts growing up in the Porters area of Gainesville, Florida. Her family fled Rosewood during the Rosewood Massacre and lived in the woods for a week. They initially settled in a large house in Belleview with the help of her stepfather Henry Price, but were forced to relocate to Porters Quarters, a predominantly Black neighborhood in Gainesville. Her family attended Shady Grove Primitive Baptist Church and Lincoln High School. She shares memories of her principal, A. Quinn Jones. Once Mrs. Daniels finished high school, she wanted to become a nurse, but the only school was in Jacksonville and she could not attend. She ended up completing a Nursing Assistant course at Florida Community College at Jacksonville after moving there with her sister when she was fifty years old. She worked at St. Luke’s Hospital, then began working as a baker at Bolles Boarding School.





Keywords: [African American History; Rosewood; Lincoln High School; Levy County, Florida; Alachua County, Florida; Bolles Boarding School]





































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 248B

Interviewee: Mary Hall Daniels Interviewer: Ryan Morini

Date: February 21, 2012



	M:	This is Ryan with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. I'm here with Mary Hall Daniels in Hilliard, Florida, in her living room. It is February 21, 2012. If we could start by you just stating your full name and your date and place of birth; I know where you were born, but—.

	D:	My name is Mary Magdalene Hall Daniels. Daniels is the married name, Hall is my family surname. I was born in Rosewood, Florida June 7, 1919.

	M:	June 7, 1919. Now, but you didn't grow up in Rosewood. Well, after you were three.

	D:	Yeah, now I don't know anything about Rosewood, I was just born there. ‘Cause when this riot started I was three years old when they had this Rosewood Massacre where everybody was being killed and all the houses and everything was burned to the ground. And my mother took me and my family had to go to the swamps and I think we would be in the swamp ‘cause my mother said we spent a week out there in the swamp. And it was somebody was running during to get around to get us some meat to feed us or whatever. So while we was in the swamp, now I don't know anything about that, only what my momma told me. ‘Cause I was left back in the bed, someone come back and got me and they took me to my mother. Now we was still out there in the woods and then my mother said we could look over the swamp and the blaze and the fire was so red that we could just see the fire and the blaze that they was burning down the house. Every house, Black person house in Rosewood, America was burned down to the ground. We didn't have anything to put on, only thing we had on our back was





what we had on while we were sleeping in the bed. So I don't know how my momma handles that, ‘cause my momma was not educated. She couldn't read or write. She was just a domestic housemaid because she was a mother of nine children and my name is Mary, I'm the baby. But with me was a twin, I had a twin sister and her name was Martha, but Martha died when we was a baby. So I didn't know her, only what my mother said. Then my daddy, I don't know my daddy. My daddy died when I was real young child, I wasn't old enough to remember my daddy, I don't even know my daddy, I don't even know how he looked. And after this Rosewood Massacre and the fire everything got burned up, I haven't ever seen a picture of my daddy, I don't even know how he look. All I know that momma say his name was Charles B. Hall and the B. was Bakkus Hall, Charles Bakkus Hall. And he was from Africa, Nigeria, Africa that was where my daddy was from. I don't know how him and my momma met. I didn't get to talk all about that, ‘cause after this Rosewood thing come on, I didn't think to ask her anything about that, ‘cause I was too young to remember anything about him. So I know I had five brothers, now three of the children out of nine was not in Rosewood. They was not at the Rosewood Massacre, they wasn’t in that. Steve was in Miami, Sammy was in—. [Sighs]

	M:	Was it Sumner? D:	Sumner.

	M:	Sumner, okay.



	D:	Yeah, my brother Sammy was in Sumner, ‘cause he was working in Sumner at that mill and when this riot was as I was told, that they boss man let all of them off





and they all over come out and was getting ready to protect their part of their land. But they didn't do this in Rosewood, so we was all in the swamp. So then Mr. John Wright, he the one that looked out for the Black Americans, he ordered them the train and off of the train something to come to people to look out for us, to take us away from there. Then we all went and got on the train and then the train got halfway, I imagine, to Gainesville and the train broke down. I don't know, you know with them old trains, coal train or whatever. But anyway, they finally got it started and then that's where we end up in Gainesville. We didn't know anybody in Gainesville, but my momma had a brother live in Gainesville and his name was Joe Davis and he ran a fish market. I think his fish market was on down the street I think, on down the street yeah I think that's where it was. The first place I remember, after growing up, we was living back of the train shed, ‘cause they some houses back there and that's where we lived, in back of the train shed. ‘Cause when I come to know anything about it, that's where we were living, back behind the train shed. Then that was when Bishop Henry Price that Momma had met in Rosewood that was after my daddy died, and somehow he found her. I heard her say, “How did Henry found me?” But he found her somewhere in Gainesville where we was staying, he found my momma. And anyways, they got married and he was with her and he shipped boxes. With him we went from town to town from the turpentine still, so we were living. Now if I remember we moved from behind the train shed, we moved to out east, ‘cause that's where the Turpentine still was out east. And they had houses and all for the person that worked for them, they had somewhere to stay because they could move in one of





their houses. And I remember I was old enough then to be to move out there in one of those houses out there. From there, during the storm, they had a real bad storm, it was in [19]26 storm, I think it was, and we all went to the still for safeness. We all left home, Momma and us and the children, I remember that. We went to the Turpentine still until the storm and rain and everything had passed over and then we went back home. Then while we was staying out there, then Henry Price left and went to Belleview, I think that was our next stop. So then my mom with the family and they had the truck and all then we all moved to Belleview. And then we stayed at Belleview and still on the Turpentine still ‘cause he was still shipping boxes and they had these homes where the worker’s family could stay and then we stayed in one of the homes out there. While we were there, we first moved to Belleview, but we was on the road. It was a nice, nice house. Nice, nice big house rested right on the roadside. And we all was there and then there was one night that—and I was a small child I hadn't started school yet—and then somebody knocked on the door and mind you we never had a chance to go to the door. So then my stepdad asked, “Who is it?” And then they said, “Nigger come out here.” So he said, “I'm not coming out there.” So he said, “You come out here.” But he ain't come out here and he stayed right there knocking, knock to come out there.

And he didn't go out there, none of us didn't go out there. And I can just remember that. So after they left and then they looked up from there I guess they went someplace else, my stepdad didn't go out there to see what they wanted then they all left. Then I remember that Momma had a trunk and I don't what she kept in that trunk and she would hope Mr. Henry got that big trunk and carried it in the





swamp—in the woods from where we stayed—carried it back in the woods and hid the trunk back under some bushes somewhere back there off from the road from the house. And then we all got in the road and walked up to the camp, ‘cause we was about like a mile from the camp down the road, ‘cause that was one of the houses empty at that time. So we all walked down there and with the next day then the boss man then he give us some place to stay, then they came back and they moved up in there in the quarters where everybody else was. And we stayed there, well, we stayed there for a good while and we stayed there. And then when we left there we went to—that was when we moved to Belleview, in a side camp there for Belleview. And that's where I remember my brother then went to school and Momma was protective about the children and all like that. Now, my mother wasn't educated, she couldn't read or write, but after we all schooled and grown we taught her how to write and read her name. But she could always count money now, she could count money and she cooked and she did everything for us. I had a real good mother, real good mother and I miss my momma. So we stayed there to Belleview for a long time. We moved from Belleview then we moved back to Gainesville and we moved on the street and I can't think of the street name. I thought about it the other day, Moss Street, Moss Street.

	M:	Moss Street.



	D:	Yeah, we moved from the camp, moved back to Moss Street in Gainesville. M:	So around when would this be? How old were you at that point?

	D:	Well, I would had to have been about seven or eight years old. I had to have been about seven or eight or eight or nine years old, ‘cause I remember that real good. I





must have been about seven or eight years old.



	M:	So all the moving out to Belleview and then back that must have been within a couple years or something?

	D:	Yes, ‘cause that was like two or three years apart we was, you know, moving back to the camp. So then when we move on Moss Street then he got sick, my stepdaddy. He got sick and I don't know what happened, but whatever happened, I don't know if he got in a confrontation or something with somebody and they done something to him, but anyway he was poisoned and it was through coffee. He liked the coffee. I remember a man that come to work on him, he was one old man and he come there and he worked on him, and he worked on him, and he worked on him. Until then he got up, but he didn't ever go back to work no more. But I never drank coffee and my mother didn't, but he did. But from that day on we could never have coffee in the house. He couldn't stand to even smell coffee, it would make him sick. But he didn't die, he just smelled whatever it is; he cured him and he got all right. So then we stayed there and my brothers was large boys then, Charles.

And Charles he would always look out for Momma, he's my favorite brother, Charles was. So Charles, from while we was living there on Moss Street we was using lamps, you know kerosene lamps?

	M:	Uh-huh.



	D:	And so Charles, my brother Charles, Moss Street was just the next street over to Porter Street, so my brother Charles found this house on Porter Street. On the corner of Porter and Depot Street, right across from the ice plant. Then we moved from Moss Street to on Porter Street. I was going to school then and I went to





Lincoln High School in Gainesville, Florida, under the direction of A. Quinn Jones. He was my principal and he was a good principal. We would go to school and I would be home at night ‘cause my mother didn't mess with washing at night, no. Maybe I could've gotten a better education, but you know I wasn't the briggette person, I have to be honest. I wasn't just a briggette person, you know when I work and do something, I would have a steady study. But when I get home in the afternoon, I would have to help my momma iron. She wouldn't make me wash, ‘cause she felt I wouldn't be cleaning the clothes. ‘Cause she washed on the rub board, rubbed on the rub board and had a pump in the backyard. And then I would have to pump the water and start fire around the park, cause then we would boil the clothes. You know, to boil the clothes to wash them and hang 'em on the line and when I come home from school then the clothes would be ready to iron and then I would iron the clothes. I would help my momma iron and then that's written out to this day I can iron a shirt and I can press a pant as it come out the laundry, and I can do that. That's how I learned to iron and we didn't have no electric iron, we used the smoothing iron from the fireplace, that's what we used. That was the first time we had lights and that was during the year—that must have been during the [19]30s.

	M:	Okay.



	D:	Must have been during around about the [19]30s. And we stayed there and I went to school and I never missed a day from school. And I had to walk to school, I had to walk from Porter Street. From Depot on the corner, I had to walk all the way down Porter Street and across University Street and down to Seventh Street to go





to school. And as we had to walk to school, but the White children was riding to school. I had to pass by the White school to get to my school down there on Seventh Street, way down there. And they would be riding about and they would throw things after us walking. They would throw things or something and I would never walk by the bus when we went to school ‘cause we had to pass by the school to go there. I guess I was kinda lucky, I was doing pretty good, they didn't bother me too much. One thing was because I had my brothers and the boys that time would pick after girls, you know, and all like that. I never had that problem.

Because the only boy I know was a boy say one time at Belleview and I was coming, was walking, and they say, “Don't say nothing to that girl, don't mess with that girl cause she got two old bad brothers.” [Laughter] And one of my brother's wasn't gonna do nothing, but we depended on the other brother [Laughter]. Wasn't gonna do a thing, but you could depend on Charlie. I never had to be picked at by no boys or nobody, because I had them brothers there, you know. And they said, “Don't bother that girl ‘cause she got two old bad brothers,” and Charlie would fight. That's his picture up there, he's a soldier. He's the only one that been to the service. Do you see the soldier over there by that little?

	M:	I think so, right there? Right there on the third one down? Is this him here? D:	Yeah, that's Charles.

	M:	That's Charles, and he was the ballplayer then? D:	Yeah, he could play ball and he play harp.

	M:	Oh, yeah?



	D:	Mmhm. Oh, you could just hear him play harp and he could play ball. Oh, Lord, he





could play ball and I use to play ball. When I go home in the evening time we had a girl baseball game when you come from school. When we get home and I didn't have to help my momma iron and wash, we had a big ball diamond and all would out there and the girls would play against the boys. And we would be playing hardball not softball, we played softball and hardball. My brother, he would come out there and I helped first base and I could play boy you know I was a real good athletic. And I helped first base. So then this boy—we was playing against the boys—and this boy you know he hit the ball and he ran and I was on the base.

When they throw it to me, he was on his way to first base, but when they throw me the ball they throw it too high, I had to jump up. And so I jumped up and by the time I jumped up my feet wasn't on the base and I caught the ball and I say he was out and my bother say he’s safe and me and him argued down. Oh, me and my brother argued, Charles said, “He's safe,” I said, “He not safe.” Charles say, “Mary the boy's safe, I said he ain't. Charles said Mary you was off the base when you caught the ball,” I say, “I was in the air when I caught it but I had the ball when I came down.” Charles said, “Yeah, but you was off the base when you caught the ball.” I said, “Well he's out,” Charles said, “He's not out.” Oh, me and brother fussed because I said that boy was out. But he went on and made the score and since I got grown I just found out that I schooled my brother ‘cause I was off the base so I had to learn that. [Laughter] But I could play ball, oh, I like to play ball. I could hold first base and I could catch that ball, too. And if it didn't go too far or too high I would jump up and I would catch it. And me and my brother we would have it, he would say, “Mary,” said the boys and I said, “Charles, I said I was on. I said





when I came down on the base I had the ball.” He said, “But you was off the base when you caught the ball.” He had to let that go, oh, we had us a real nice time in school. I went to school and I finally graduated ‘cause I always wanted to be a nurse, a RN, and I wanted to be as close to the doctor as I could get other than being the doctor. But I couldn't make it.

	M:	What year did you graduate? D:	1940.

	M:	1940, that's right. D:	Mmhm.

	M:	Okay, okay.



	D:	But anyway, ‘cause I wasn't able to go to school. Now, during that time, in Jacksonville, when I came up here. When I was in Gainesville, in Jacksonville they had the school for nursing that you could stay at the school or you could go to school and take off. Now I could study to get my lesson, whatever, but I couldn't work and study and get my lesson, I wasn't that out, you know what I mean? But I could go off and everything else. But whatever I did, I had to really study, I wasn't that—Brewster Hospital, that's what the name was. Brewster Nursing Home, that's where nurse’s hospital. It was a school, Brewster's Nurse’s School that you could go to. And I wasn't in Gainesville, I was in Jacksonville but I wasn't able, I couldn't, I wasn't able to go. ‘Cause I couldn't work and then go to school like so many girls did, but I just couldn't do that. So I didn't try to go. So after I got grown here and moved here with my sister, in the paper I saw a credit where you could take up the Nurse Assistant course at the school there in Jacksonville. Jacksonville, what's the





name of that school?



	U:	FCCJ.



	D:	FCCJ. It was FCCJ when I was going and I saw it in the paper and I went and I signed up to take that course. I was fifty years old when I signed up. Seemed like the instructor didn't want to take me I guess because I was aged and she said, “Well, why you wants to be a nurse?” I said, “Well I always wanted to be a nurse,” I said, “‘Cause I just wanna be a nurse.” I said, “I wasn't able to go to school ‘cause my family wasn't able to send me to school.” And I said, “So at least I have some of what I wanted to do.” But anyways, she finally took me on and I was a pretty good student. I still had some papers that I went through there with A's and B's all on it. Before it was over she told me, she said, “I'm real proud of you, real proud of you.” ‘Cause I made and A's and A+ and B+'s on my stuff. ‘Cause I studied, I really studied. I would sit up at night and I would read that book and all of those things, which you know you had to remember all of them. Now, my daughter went to school. Now in school, Hilliard High, the same thing what I had to pay for in FJJC she got at the school free. And she would come home and say, “Momma I got this you want it?” I said, “No, I don't want it, just let me find it, let me study and get it.” And everything she asked me to do, I wouldn’t do. I say no, let me do it. And when I finally got to it she said, “Momma I told you I had it and you could've”—I said, “No, I wanted to study for myself.” So when I stayed there and I passed, now I passed the grade and after you finished, during my finish, she gave me a certificate, you know what I mean?

	M:	Mmhm.





	D:	Yeah I gave my certificate and a pen, school pen and so then I went and got a job, good job at St. Luke's Hospital. Then I worked there and then after I got working there, I left to finish school. And I told her that you wanna get a job, why don't you, ‘cause you grown now, I said and you think you cuter, I ain't taking care of you, you better get a job. So I carried her to St. Luke’s Hospital and they hired her and I believe that was during the [19]57, wasn't it Leslie? [19]50? No, it was [19]60. It was the [19]70s, that's when it was and I carried her there to the hospital and they hired her. And all they asked was for her to get a letter from her school from the person that taught her and she sent a letter to St. Luke’s or to the instructor teacher there, or the nurses rather and they hired her. And that was during the [19]70s, I think it was. And you know, she's still there. She still working there, she been there 'round 'bout thirty-three or thirty-four years now. St. Luke’s went into Minute Clinic, a boy at St. Luke however, whatever happened. She went from St. Luke’s to Minute Clinic so now she works to the Minute Clinic now. I don't think she doing too much ‘cause she likes to boss around and I think she's only staffing now. But anyway she has a good job, now she works like seven to seven, seven hour shift when she's working and then she'd be off three or four days and that's what she likes. So I retired from St. Luke, I don't get that much money, but anyway I retired ‘cause I was seventy years of age and I sort of got tired of climbing up on the bus and I said, I'm just gonna retire and whatever they give me, I'll just appreciate it. So I retired from there and I did some days work and then I worked in the school board and I worked the school cafeteria. Then I left that and I went over to—Bo was going to school ‘cause Bo asked me to come over there. ‘Cause he





was the chef cook, so when I met him over at the beach, so I fought him a little ‘til he said if he was he baker and the chef cook had left and he wanted to move up to the chef cook and they wouldn't let him move because they didn't have nobody in the bakery shop to bake. So he asked me if I could go over there and bake and take the job, the baking job. And I told him, I said “Nah, I can bake real good home much but I don't know nothing 'bout no industrial baking and stuff.” So he said, “Well, you come on and take the job,” so I went on and I took the job and he moved up, sure enough, to the chef cook at Boy's Boarding School. And so I got in the bakery shop and he would teach me how to bake. He would tell me how much to do and what to put in and what to weigh and all like that and I did just what he said and I did it. So I got to be real baker now, so now I can really bake.

Now I been baked some good cakes and then I learned how to make cinnamon rolls, I had to make that every two, three weeks. One week I had to make cinnamon rolls, you know, like five or six hundred cinnamon rolls and then I would have to make cake donuts, like rolls and then pies. I would have to make like fifty pies for the weekend. And then in there were some weeks I would just have to make cakes and that's how I did. And I liked that, I really liked that. I would go around and make some good cakes and I was a good baker, I know how to bake good, I liked it. So I stayed over there and at that time Alzada was small, my sister was taking care of Alzada, my sister Dosia. And she done a good job of taking care of her too ‘cause she went to school, she made her went to school. I said, “Sister you make her go to school ‘cause she need to go to school,” I put her in the summer school where she can go and get some education. I said ‘cause she





would need it more than I would need it and so she did it. She was good in the school and I got her paper right now where she made A's and B's and everything at her school. And all her papers I got them kept in here noq, I look at 'em. And when she finished I got all of her papers, all of her school things that she had, you know, what she made in school. But anyway, well I stopped work, anyway I just did days’ work and everything so when I just stopped working period and I said, “Well whatever I get I'll just take that and I'll just appreciate it.” So that's my lifestyle, I had a nice life ‘cause I had a nice mother and I had nice family, my sisters and brothers and Dosia. Dosia, I imagine my daughter guess her for her ‘cause my sister Dosia use to be, we've always been stout, weigh like two to three hundred pounds. She always weighed two to three hundred pounds, I remember my sister Dosia use to weigh that and she was living in Gainesville. Anyway, that was some of my school days and I had some nice times from it, you know?

	M:	Yeah.



	D:	And thank the Lord that I got a little bit of the nursing that I wanted to get, so at least I can do a little bit of that. And I thanks the Lord for that.

	M:	When did you take up an interest in nursing? Was that back when you were growing up or is that more?

	D:	Huh?



	M:	When did you first get interested in nursing? D:	Nursing?

	M:	Yeah.



	D:	Well, ‘cause when they going to school, before we graduate they would always ask





us during that time they ask children what are they going to do, who would be going to college? You know, who was going to college? Because if you was going to college then if your grades wasn't right they wasn't gonna pass you. So I always have been honest and I said, “Well, I won't go to college,” I said, “I know I'm gonna get there,” you know. I just wanted to be a nurse, but I won't go to college ‘cause my parents could not even send me to college and I didn't go. But everybody in my class graduated, everybody graduated. Now some of the girls, some of them did go to college and all, but I knowed I couldn't make it ‘cause I'd get home and I'd have to help my momma wash and iron and I just thank the Lord for what it is. And then after school I got a little part-time job that I would go to school and they paid me a dollar and a half for a week to tend to the children and it was twin children, a girl and a boy. And I took care of them, they was nice little children and the parents was nice. I said if I ever marry and have any twin, I said, I'm gonna name them, the name was David and oh the boy’s name was David, oh ain't that something? I said if I have a twin I would have them David and Deanna. So I had one child, Alzada, and I had Alzada's middle name is Deanna, Alzada Deanna.

	M:	Where did that family live? D:	Huh?

	M:	Where did that family live?



	D:	That family? They was living in Gainesville. The White family that lived in Gainesville and they had two children, two twins, they was David and Deanna.

	M:	Well, how close to your neighborhood did they live? I mean, did you walk there? D:	‘Cause we was living on Porter Street and they was living down like, it wasn't





University. They was living like downtown, that's before you get to downtown. It wasn't downtown, but it was closer to downtown off of Arrendonda Street, I think that's where it was, somewhere down there, where they was living at. ‘Cause I could walk, I would always walk to work every other day, you know?

	M:	I see, I see. Alright, let's see, so your mother did laundry. Who were her clients?



Did she work for a company or she gathered peoples’ laundry?



	D:	Yeah, she just gathered. She would like the doctors, you know what I mean?



Doctors often and school teachers and private home peoples that wanted somebody to do their laundry. They would bring it to the house see?

	M:	Okay.



	D:	They would bring it and give it to my momma. Well, I didn't have so many things, you know, and they would have clothes and shirts and dresses, pretty things. I would sit there and I would say to myself, I say, “I sure wish they would give me that dress,” I would be saying. You know, my momma washing and ironing and I say, “I wish they give me that dress,” and honestly when they would come and get the clothes they would take everything on the hanger and when they bring the dirty clothes back the next week, they would bring that dress back and they would tell Momma to give it to the little girl. And I just stared and I say, “Oh, the Lord He answered my prayers,” and I was so glad ‘cause I didn't have, you know, nothing. And I was really glad, I know the Lord has been good to me and that was some of my days.

	M:	Oh, yeah. So let's see, Henry Price, your stepfather, what do you remember about him in the household I guess?





D:  Now see, all I remember of Henry Price was after we was in Gainesville and we was all settled and staying behind the train shed. They had big trains where the train parked and all in there and we was staying behind there. And that's when I remember him, when I come and met my momma, that's when I remember him.

M: Okay, but not much else? D:  Huh?

	M:	You don't remember much else about him as a person?



	D:	Nope, no. Now he was an educated man. He was already an educated man, but he didn't have means. ‘Cause like I said I wasn't just bright that I could just read and see a big word and read the word and spell the word and pronounce the word. I couldn't do that, but he wouldn't help me. Instead of him helping me—years ago when children got sick they use the word asphyxia. And he would come up there and I would be studying, “Mary, spell asphyxia.” Now he know I couldn't spell no asphyxia, you know what I mean? ‘Cause I couldn't spell the, you know, and I didn't like him. I didn’t. I could go off or go someplace somewhere and then I would be going down the road and I would look and I would see him going down and watching like he's watching, keeping an eye on me. And don't know what he was watching, keeping up for me, but he never say nothing to me ‘cause he know he wouldn't, you know, nothing. I just didn't like him, I didn't like the way he acted, the way he did us. He whooped me one time and my momma come home—with a leather or something—when my momma come home from work she, she said, “What this child?” I said, “’Cause Mr. Henry beat me,” and then I know Momma told him long as she live don't he ever put his hands on me no more. Long as she





live, don't he ever put his hands on me. That's the first and the last time I know he did that. My momma said, “Don't you never put your hands on her no more,” and he didn't. But my momma was real strong and her and Wilson use to tussle and she could outdo my brother Wilson, ‘cause they use to tussle and ‘cause Wilson always was the momma’s boy, Wilson was. He was the momma’s boy, Wilson, oh Jesus and they would always tussle. But he could not do my momma, my momma would just outdo him every time, but he would always be tussling with my momma ‘cause he was always the baby boy.

	M:	Yeah, she sounds like she was a very strong woman.



	D:	She was, real strong. My momma she real strong and healthy, you know what I mean? And she use to work in the field and I remember my sister Margery, said we been growing a year. She even said to me one time, she remembered that my momma was in the field working, you know, in the field doing fieldwork and Margery, cause I was the baby, Margery was supposed to hold me and tend to me, see. And I was being hollering and crying and my momma would come and ask, “Margery, what you done to her? Say, what you done that’s she crying?” And she whooped Margery and Margery would never forget that. She always say, “Momma didn't do me,” and you be crying, but I don't know I guess I just be crying, I don't know. And I did used to cry, when she was a baby she did the same thing. She would just cry and she would woke and Alzada saw my momma and Alzada had never seen my momma before, ‘cause she dead and buried before Alzada was born. And Alzada would cry, at night she would have them crying spell and nothing I could do would keep her. And I said, “Baby what's the matter?” I said,





“You not sick and you not hungry,” and she just cry. She go to bed and she cry and I know one day I was out there trying to wash and I heard her in the room crying. And I jumped up and run in the room and I said, “Baby what's the matter?” She was sitting up in the bed and the tears running down her eye, running down her face. And I say, “What's the matter?” I said, “You don't tell me what's the matter,” I said, “I'm gonna whip you.” I said, “’Cause there ain't nothing wrong with you, you just hollering. And then she said, “Grandmamma, grandmamma momma.” I said, “What kind of, you don't know nothing about no grandmamma, you ain't never see my momma.” “Grandmamma, momma, grandmamma,” And I ain't see nowhere else to look so I think that Momma would come and play with her, you know what I mean, and then when Momma would leave her in her sleep then she would start crying ‘cause she would miss her. And when I got that picture she looked at that picture and she said, “Grandmamma.” I said, “You don't know nothing about no grandmamma.” “Grandmamma, momma, grandmamma.” And that's when I found out that Momma would go with her spirit in the children and she did that to Alzada and she remembered but she would never tell me, she would never tell me why she was crying. But she know Momma and when she looked at that picture, she said, “Grandmamma.” I said, “You don't know nothing about no grandmamma.” “Grandmamma, momma.” ‘Cause she saw her in her sleep and looked a child baby coming, that's when she saw her, in her child. And she knowed her.

	M:	It sounds like she worked very hard to keep the whole family together. D:	Yes.





	M:	Did all your brothers and sisters live with you in Gainesville except for Steve and Sammy?

	D:	Well, all of them lived in Gainesville until they was grown, that's when they left home.

	M:	Okay.



	D:	Steve left home. Steve had two boys. Steve had two boys and Thomas had quite a few—three, four, five, six—children and Sammy, oh God, I don't know how many Sammy had. Sammy had about twelve or thirteen. Sammy had a lot of children, you know. And Margery had one boy, and Thomas had a lot. As you know, Thomas has three or four children, four or five children.

	M:	Did the family kind of play together and stuff like that? Or did you play with kids your age or what?

D:  No, ‘cause they all was—even though they wasn't staying home anymore ‘cause the boys had already married and all had left so I didn't get with any of them, you know, to play with them and neither did their children. Now I went to visit, Alzada went to stay with my brother and I don't know. [Background comment]

	M:	Back in Gainesville, when you were growing up, did you play with your brothers and sisters or did you play with the neighborhood?

	D:	Oh, yeah, yeah. ‘Cause, you know, that's all I could play with. Momma didn't let us go, it was only one family I could play with. And you know what, and there was a lady, I don't know what happened, but they was from Ohio and they moved to Gainesville, back out behind us, living further out, you know, there. Back a train shed but even further back on the road, you know, the houses back there and they





moved there from Ohio and she had three girls. The oldest one was named Maggie, Odessa, and Alonso. I couldn't think of the fourth, we called her sister, but her name was Alonso. Now, I could play with those three girls. Momma would let me go to play with them and they would come to play with us. But Charles and my brothers, there was two boys they could play with, Priestly Owens and this other boy, he's grown now. But those the only children, boys that they—‘cause she didn't let them go, they couldn't go out and play in the street and all like children like to do now. She didn't allow them to do that and she didn't allow anybody to the house. And in all my playing, I had to play with my brothers and when somebody else come and if the other boys come then they played, I couldn't play with the boys. And only Priestly Owens, he's the main one, he would always be around there playing them boys and this other boy, I can't think of his name now, he still calls me sometime.

	M:	Do you know what it was about those families that your mother would let you play with their kids, but not other kids?

	D:	Yeah, ‘cause they was the kids, she was a woman and she didn't have a husband.



She was a just a woman with just the three girls and they was staying back off back there and you had to go back there to play with them, you know. So that's who she would let us play with, them girls and them. But I couldn't out and play with all the girls and play with everybody, ‘cause she wouldn't let us do that. ‘Cause when I was coming up, girls, you know, ‘cause—see I was raised dumb. I didn't when they started talking 'bout the crunky seed and the broken leg and all that kind of stuff, I didn't know what they was talking 'bout. One of the baddest





bare hand slap I got when I was a child was dipping-in. Momma and the lady, they always in there talking, when somebody come there I couldn't sit like we talking now, I couldn't be in here. I would have to go on the porch out there, I couldn't be where the grown people was talking. I'm out there on the porch and I heard them talking and they one of the two was talking about the little girl and I would play with the little girl, but I didn't know. And the momma little girl, so Momma lied to the woman, said, “Well she got her leg broke.” I heard Momma say that, I was on the porch, now I ran out, “No ma'am Momma, no ma'am Momma her leg didn't broke,” and Momma gave me a backhand slap. I didn't never dip-in no more, but I didn't know why she hit me, you know, I ain't know why she did that to me. But it was because the girl leg wasn't broke, but they should've explained it to me, but I hadn't have been dipping-in, you know. I was outdoors playing, but I found out later, ‘cause the girl was pregnant. I played with her all the time, but I didn't know, but I know her leg wasn't broke, you know. But they was talking about that the leg broke and then something and I just as dumb when I was growing up, I was really. But I learned better since then, but all that's going on. Oh, Lord.

	M:	No kid understands all of that stuff immediately. So last time you said you went to Shady Grove, your church?

	D:	Yeah, now, Shady Grove, we was living like where the house, far from Shady Grove is right by the block. ‘Cause we was living here in this block and Shady Grove Church was living in the next block and I went to Shady Grove Primitive Baptist Church. And that's where I got converted at, in Shady Grove Primitive Baptist Church, and I don't what year it was, but I was real small. And my brother





Charles he got converted in Primitive Baptist Church at the revival they was having, you know. That's where we both got converted and we baptized in a river where they had to stake it off, you couldn't go but so far in the pond. And they had a stake and that's how far we could go and during that time people you saw everybody wearing long dresses and big hats, so hats floating on the water and dresses floating where the people had to go out there and put them outdoor cause when you get baptized then, the elder people would want to go in the water where the children getting baptized and you had to grab them and keep them from going in the water, Lord knows I had a good time coming up. They don't have them times no more.

	M:	What do you remember about the church? I mean, did you just go on Sundays or were you involved? Did they have, I don't know, picnics or anything like that?

	D:	No, we went to church and I went to Sunday school. M:	Okay.

	D:	‘Cause we had to go to Sunday school and I would go to church and when I was real small, Momma would go to church and they would have the watch meeting, all night long, watch meeting. And Momma would go to church and Momma would always have a box with groceries, some food in it for me. And I would go to church with Momma and I would be sitting in the corner and they would be singing, having church. And when time and like twelve o’clock come the pastor be saying, “Watchman what time it is?” and he say, “Five minutes to twelve,” and all that. And at twelve o’clock everybody fall on their knees and everybody be praying and all that, you know. And I remember all that, they don't have them good times





anymore, you know, I remember all of that.



	M:	Where did your mother get her groceries from? Just from one of the stores on the corner in Porters?

	D:	No, Ms. Stella Knowles. M:	Ms. Stella Knowles.

	D:	Ms. Stella Knowles lived right in the front of us, across the street and he had a store right on the corner. And you could get beans, bacon and all, like ten cents a pound and that's where my mother traded at. ‘Cause everybody was gone from home but me and my momma.

	M:	I see. Would you like to take a break for a minute? D:	Yeah, Mmhm.

[Break in recording]



	M:	Okay. All right, so we're starting up again after a brief break. Okay, so you were just talking about Stella Knowles. Do you remember any of the other businesses in the neighborhood around you? Was there anywhere you went to eat or to go to pick up, I don't know, candy or something like that?

	D:	No, wasn't no other store or anything, not in Porters that I really could go, we would always have to go Downtown or go to—Stella Knowles was the only store there and they sold candy and all that stuff. Candy and drinks, you know. So after school I was working on this job first for dollar and a half a week. Well, when they was talking about the mill, I had never went to the mill, I only heard about it. So I decided I wanted to go to the mill too, ‘cause they had women at the mill. The mill would move I think from [inaudible 53:58] or something and the women was all





with there. Women was working and I wanted to try it out. I always wanted to try something, I feel like if another woman can do something I should be able to do it too. So I was working for the little job, a dollar and a half a week, and it was paying off for me. ‘Cause momma was washing and ironing and we had all this money for but the two of us. So then I told Momma I would go down to the mill and see if I could get a job down there so I would have a little bit more money. And so she said all right, so I went down then I applied for a job and asked the man if he could hire me and give me a job ‘cause I went to work to help my momma. So then he said, “You ever done this?” I told him, “No.” I said, “No I haven’t done anything where I worked in a mill,” I said, “but I feel like if another woman do then I could learn to do it too.” So anyway, he hired me told me when to come back and I went back. And I started at the machine, it's the basket factory there in Gainesville I don't know if it’s still there or not. We had to make baskets for beans and all that.

	M:	I don't think it’s there now, but you know people have mentioned that—



	D:	Mmhm, yeah. But anyway they hired and that was in [19]41 and I went down there and they hired me. I stood by the machine, they taught me how to do it, how to lay the staves. And I learned it. Then when I learned it, I really learned it. And then I was working days, some days and working some nights ‘cause this was some other person's place. I worked, I guess, about three days sometimes and during the daytime and then they moved me then to move to work at night. I would study working that night job and I learned how to lay the staves. And I could lay them staves, ‘cause between them staves be some rotten wood and rotten things, and you have to pull them out and put them in, and ‘cause if we didn't, the basket





would be no good. And I learned how to do that, and I could lay them staves. And sometime I have a stave almost in the machine, I could reach in there and pull it out and put in another there right quick. And I could run that machine like ten sometime and twenty minutes without stopping. And sometime tried to put the nuggets in, and it's a special something that you had to learn how to do. And I learned how to lay them staves, and I laid them staves. I would work one night and then the girls, some didn't come in the next day and I would ask them if I could work and he said, “You said you wanted to work?” And I said, “I wanna try,” and so I would work. I would work that day and when five o’clock come, the whistle blow. We worked from eight to five and when five o’clock come the whistle blow, that mean everybody stop working and the others come in and start their work. And so I was standing there that morning, I had worked all that day so then he said I could work that night ‘cause the girl wouldn't come in. And I stayed there and I worked that night. And I worked them sixteen hours, and I made them sixteen dollars. And there was two or three times I would work them shifts to have money for me and my momma. ‘Cause she would go to Stella Knowles and she would get the meat and bacon and beans, peas, rice, and meat and all whatever we had to. She would go there and get them from her and she would let her have them, she would let her credit whatever she wanted to eat. For us to eat she would go there and she would get them and then on Saturdays when I got my check, I gave my check to my momma and she went to Stella Knowles and paid all for the bill and then what was left she would give to me and we would take it or pay the light bill, ‘cause light bill wasn't that much. ‘Cause we would pay the light bill or whatever we had to do with





it, but we didn't have to pay for no water bill ‘cause we had a pump in the back yard. So we didn’t have to pay for no water bill, and all we had to worry 'bout was the food and the lights. And the lights didn't cost that much ‘cause we didn't burn that much lights.

	M:	Did you keep a garden too or did you just buy your groceries across the street? D:	Just buy the groceries ‘cause we didn't have any place to keep a garden.

	M:	Okay.



	D:	Cause on Porter Street where the car house and the house sitting right there on the corner and a house on the side, on the back and it wasn't enough place that we would have no garden. It was just a little place if you wanna plant a one or two little something, but it wouldn't have been enough. Just enough space maybe to buy a little row of greens or plant a little row of green peas or something like that. It wasn't a big place for us to do that there.

	M:	I see, I see. You mentioned the ice plant before, what do you remember about the ice plant?

	D:	Oh, you know the ice plant was a great big ice plant and during that time the train—‘cause we were by the depot train line, but at the depot where the train back of where we used to stay when we first got there where the train would come up and bring the boxcars up and park ‘em in there. And on the side the side right next to Porter Street where they lowered the boxcars. They put ice in the boxcars.

Whatever it was, the freezer or whatever they had in the boxcar. And they would pull the boxcars up there and then the men they would have their little walkway, from the side to the boxcar. And they would have made them work the ice fan





[background noise]. And that's what they did, when the train come, when he got ready to load those train with the ice, they had, I guess, some big part on one end of the boxcar, whatever. Then they load it with ice and they push the ice and it would fall in there and so the ice get pulled and pulled and then they finish up when they finished that train, that boxcar, then they go to the next boxcar. And then they would load the train some time the ice would hit and slip off and fall on the ground, you know. And I would do it too, now. I would slip down there, ‘cause there's lines down there, under the shade there and piece of ice fall and we would run out there and grab a piece and run up there in the shed and go on the other end of the shed and go on home. ‘Cause that's how get them so we wouldn't have to buy no ice ‘cause we just had a ice box. But when they load the train with ice we would get enough ice from the train that fall off on the ground where we didn't have to buy no ice. So we would go down there when they load the train, the boxcar, that's when we get our ice then we never had to buy the ice. But it's a big ice plants where they made the ice and load the boxcar and train, you know, and transfer. I don't know do if they still do that or not?

	M:	I think it’s been a while since they’ve been doing that.



	D:	Yeah, but I know they load the boxcars. On the end of the boxcars where they had them come up and they load until they get them fill up. And each boxcar they would lift and then somebody was standing in it, ‘cause that's when they would haul big boxes of greens and peas and things like that to keep 'em cold. And sometimes they had meat and stuff in there, you know and then, that box in that back isle keeps the cold and things for the meat or whatever to be hauled in.





That's an ice plant, that's where we got our ice from, down there.



	M:	Okay, so, what was it like going downtown? I mean, I guess when you were growing up in Gainesville of course everything was segregated. What was it like to actual go downtown? Did you ever go there very often or when would you?

	D:	Oh, yeah. We’d go downtown and they had nice big restaurants and shoe store and all and dress store and everything downtown, University Boulevard. We would go on University Boulevard where you would find the best clothes. And then on the next little streets over where they had just little stores that you can just walk in and buy a little few things. But the main stores was on University Boulevard, where those big stores. And they was nice stores and shoes, like these shoes now that you pays, you know, twelve and thirteen dollar shoes. Black patent leather shoes, you could get them like for a dollar and a half and two dollars and two fifty and all. See, so a dollar and a half treated me good ‘cause I could buy a pair of shoes and all with that. What I had left from giving to my momma and the clothes wasn't all that high, but then Momma washing and ironing and the White people, well they kept me clothes and all, they would always say, “Momma, give this to the girl.” And I would be so glad in that nice little dress and little suits and shoes. I was the only somebody could wear the shoes where everybody's feet were larger than mine.

But I could wear the shoes, they would give me shoes and all. And then I got on pretty good with it. And then Wilson, sometimes, he would send me something sometime, but not very much after he left and went to Chicago. But me and my momma we made it pretty good ‘cause I worked, you know, worked at night, I worked in the mill and Momma was doing washing and ironing so we got along





good. We didn't suffer for anything, we could pay the little light bill and pay the grocery bill so we was doing all right.

	M:	Yeah, did you ever go to any movies at the Rose Theater or anywhere on Fifth Avenue?

	D:	Yeah, they had some theaters there. Once or twice I did go to the theater, I didn't go too much though. But once or twice I went to the theater. That was only after I had grown, got just about grown, whatever. And the other girls, they would be going and I would go along with them, you know, the girls and them ‘cause they was older than me and Momma would let me go along with them and we would go to the movie and go to the theater. Yeah, I use to go to the theater once in a while, not too often, but we used to go to the theater in Gainesville ‘cause they had one right there, right on the corner there. And we would go there on University Boulevard and there'd be the theater right there on the corner and we use to go there, I used to go there.

	M:	I see, did you have a radio when you were growing up?



	D:	No. Now, I remember the only radio, really, I had—I don't remember having no radio, no TV, nothing like that back when I was growing up and going to school. All I would hear was when I used to would go to work the store would be on for Portia Faces Life on the TV when I would go to work and the White people, then that's when I would hear, listen to the TV. But we never had no TV or nothing like that coming up.

	M:	I see, I see. What about the university, do you remember much about the University of Florida while you were growing up in Gainesville?





	D:	Well, now, when I was growing up in Gainesville, I was living out on Porter Street, that wasn't too far from the University of Florida. Now the University of Florida, they would always have these big games and big ballgames and all. But, you know what, the colored people could always go to University ballgames. Now, Ms. Stella Knowles’ daughter, that lived right 'cross in the front of us, she would always get dress and say, “I'm going to the game today.” All them big games, you know, be over there playing the university and baseball games and football games, she would always go. I didn't go, but she and I saw the others was always dressed and be going to the games and they were dying to go to the games there. And you could go there and walk if you wanted to visit or something, you could go to the University right there, Mmhm.

	M:	I see, did you ever go over that way? D:	No, I didn't, all I did was pass by.

	M:	You've talked a lot about all the work your mother did, what did she do to relax?



Did she go anywhere or do anything in particular?



	D:	No, Momma, no she didn't do anything but just be home and relax and then she would go to church, that's all. She would go to church ‘cause the church was just a block, you could sit on back on this porch and on the next corner the big church was sitting right there, you know what I mean. It wasn't a block, it was in the same block but just on the other end of the block, great big Shady Grove Family Baptist Church. And she would go to church—‘bause, now, my mother was a Methodist, but we all was a Baptist. But she would go to the Baptist church, she didn't go to the Methodist. There was a Methodist church there, but she always would go to





the Baptist church ‘cause that's where we always would go. I went to school, went to Sunday school and all there, so she would always go to Shady Grove, to the big church where we would go.

	M:	I see, I see. Getting back to Lincoln, you mentioned that you remember Prof Jones, is there anything in particular you remember about him? Did you see him often?

	D:	A. Quinn Jones?



	M:	A. Quinn Jones, yeah.



	D:	Yeah, you know what, he had his office and there was a girl from my class, she worked in his office. I don't know whether just keeping books or whatever they do, but he always had a student or whatever works in his office in there, like a boy sometimes but mostly girls. I don't know what they be doing, books or writing or whatever they be doing, but he would always have them working in his office, the girls, that way. Now the teachers didn't hit girls or nothing like that there, ‘cause when you did something in school, they send you to the principal office. Now if it was getting a whooping about, he’ll wait until you have these certain days and if somebody did something last week or yesterday, they all gonna be there the same time. He's not gonna be one today and you do something tomorrow then he gonna beat that one tomorrow, he gonna beat y'all at one time. He’d go over in that week off and get everybody get in the office and walking around and he stand over here and you walking around and when you get there then he hit you across the back with the strap. But it wasn't never no fighting and I've had a fight and then I was marching around too but I guess his mind changed, he didn't hit me. I guess I was





just lucky, but I was marching around too, but he didn't beat me that time. About three or four of us marched around, but that's what happened, he didn't just beat you, just beat children like that. When you had did something in the office and the school, the teacher, they didn't beat you or do nothing, they just send you to the office. And you go to the office and you gonna go to the office now and Jones he gonna be right there waiting on you when you get there and he gonna talk to you, but he not gonna beat no everyday beating the children. They all gonna get whooped one time, one day. Whatever you did, you gonna get beat along with the other children, you know, not one at the time, he gonna beat y'all at the same time. ‘Cause if you did something yesterday and last week then he just put you on the desk ‘cause when time for that time when he get ready to whoop them, you come in his office and y'all gonna just march around, march around and that's when he whipped you.

	M:	Do you remember going to the Lincoln sports games, the football games, the baseball games or any of that?

	D:	Yeah. I played basketball and I played guard and I end up playing forward and we had good basketball games and we would play Keystone and all those teams, you know, Alachua and all would come there for us to play them. And sometime we win and sometime we lose, you know, and it was time for the tournaments with Tallahassee, we would all go to Tallahassee. That school and all the boys and the girls, we all went to Tallahassee to play in the tournament, and I went along with them too cause I was playing basketball. I liked to play basketball, my English teacher was our coach. And I thought of her name the other day and she was our





coach. Ferguson, he was the basketball coach and the football coach. And he was the history teacher, Ferguson was. He was my history teacher and he had a nice football and we won all our games. I remember going to school, we won all our games and during our homecoming game, we would always win. My class would always be ahead of all the other classes in the school, my class was always winning the queen, you know, for the football and we would have a great big float and then she would be sitting up there all dressed up and all floating around and cars all decorating and the float. And then the pep squad and I would be on the pep squad, I had a good time going to school, I did. I really did. And I had to walk to school, but I enjoyed it and I could really walk too, I could really walk. And after I came here and things, going to walk, I used to walk. I be walking ahead of everybody ‘cause they walks too slow for me, ‘cause I like to walk fast and I never walked alone. And I know that I was saying Miss Stella Knowles, Gladys, she was a friend of mine, least I thought she was. But anyway, she was like some girl, you know, they drags who's foot just drags and just slowly along. And she would tell her all the time, “Gladys, why don't you try and walk like Mary and why don't you walk?” And it kind got next to her and I don't think she liked that, you know. And I thought she was good a good friend, but she wasn't, she was the worst friend I think I had. ‘Cause she was doing things, you know. And then I found that out afterward. But going to school when it rained, she was a godmother, Ms. Stella was Gladys Hoffman’s godmomma. Now, Gladys was from Ocala and her momma lived in Ocala—her daddy had died—her mother lived in Ocala and Ms. Stella Knowles was her godmomma. And in school time, she didn't go to school in Ocala,





she was sent up to Gainesville and most of the children come to Gainesville—from Archer and all—they would come to Gainesville to go to school. And that's where she go to school. And so when it rained, she would always take Gladys and they blow the horn and I would ride, anytime it rain or storming and they going, when she go to school she always stopped at my front yard, I be standing on the porch, run and get in the car. During the day, after school, if it was raining she would come and get Gladys and she would get her and she would always wait for me and I would always ride. So I never had to walk in the rain out in the cold like that ‘cause she would take her and then she would always take me ‘cause they lived in the front of my house in a cement house. And we was living over in the little wood house and then she had the big store right there on the corner. And that's where we would go and they would play checkers over there and I learned how to play checkers and I would beat everybody, playing checkers, oh, I could play checkers. Oh, Lord. I played checkers and that's what I liked to do there ‘cause that's all we could do ‘cause Momma was kinda strict on me ‘cause after everybody left, wasn't nobody home with Momma but me. But I did along pretty good, you know, I did alright, thank the Lord, ‘cause I had a good mother. She did the cooking and eating. Catch gophers and all them things and rabbits. Now Momma didn't none of that stuff, she didn't eat no wild animal, no wild food, no nothing, but she would always cook it and fix it for us, you know. And boy I that that piece of like a gopher or something, whatever be loose and running around, ‘cause you don't hear anything about that now. But Momma had to cut him out the back and all like that and Momma use to fix it up and I thought I was eating chicken and, oh, my





momma could really cook. And cook biscuits and cornbread and peas and rice and bacon. That's was I was raised off of, you know, and I likes that.

	M:	Yeah, it sounds like she did an incredible job raising you, yeah.



	D:	Yes, yeah she did a good job raising all of us ‘cause she didn't allow my brothers— they couldn't be in the streets and running up and down on Saturday. They could not do it, ‘cause she didn't allow them to do it. I know my stepdad was saying he use to get at my momma ‘cause one time some boy was arguing with my brothers, arguing something and my momma heard them arguing something and Momma, I don't know what she had in her pocketbook, but she got her pocketbook and she was going down there. And my stepdad would get up and say, “Mary,” ‘cause my momma name was Mary, and he said, “Mary, you going down there, you know you gonna get them boys in trouble. Just let them boys be.” “I'm not worrying about it I'm a little piece of leather but I'm well put together,” that's what my momma always would say. [Laughter]. I'm a little piece of leather, but I'm well put together, she would always say that and she would always go to see if my brothers, they got in a fight, she would always go down to see about them.

	M:	You were three when you left Rosewood, correct? D:	Three years old.

	M:	So, most of what you know about it comes from what your mother told you. D:	Is what my momma told me.

	M:	When did she start talking to you about that?



	D:	Well, she didn't talk about it. I would ask her after I grew up a little bit, ‘cause I always been kinda nosey like. I use to want to know things and I believe in telling





the truth in things, don't tell me one then it gonna be changed tomorrow ‘cause I don't like that. And I would ask my momma what happened and then she would tell me, but she never would talk about anybody, but I would always ask her and then that's when she would tell me about it, about Rosewood and what was happening. And how she left me in the house and my brothers, my sister and all.

	M:	And so you were maybe twelve or more in your teens or how old do you think you were when you started?—

	D:	Well, ‘cause I didn't go to school ‘cause—now, down south in Gainesville, you didn't go to school until you were six years old. So I was six years old before I even started school and I started in the primer grade, so I don't know what they do now, but you couldn't go to school until you were six years old. And I remember when I was six years then I could remember good after I got seven years old, ‘cause when I go seven years old, in sixth grade and then primer grade and whatever then I went to first grade. First grade, then from first grade to second grade on primer or however that thing went. But that's what happened with me and going to school. And I went to Catholic school and I liked that because things that I know now, I didn't learn it in public, like the thing from the Catholic school, I learned that from Catholic school when I was young and I remember that. From the Bible verses, I think that's where I learned that, in the Catholic school and wasn't but ‘bout five years old, five and half years old when I was going to school, but I could remember what she taught us in the Catholic school.

	M:	And that's Ms. Jackson, you said it was? D:	Ms. Jackson, that's what her name was.





	M:	And she was a widow. Do you know where she lived? D:	No, I believe she lived in Gainesville.

	M:	Okay.



	D:	I believe she lived in Gainesville, I'm sure she did. ‘Cause she had this big church there and they had members in for going to the church. But I know she was the owner of the church, ‘cause that's where she taught the school at the end of church.

	M:	I see. Let's see, you did mention—oh, did other kids growing up know that you were from Rosewood? Or did that ever come up or it just didn't get talked about?

	D:	What, all of us?



	M:	Yeah, all the other kids. Like the kids in the neighborhood, at school, that kind of thing.

	D:	Well, they didn't know too much about it. ‘Cause nobody never talked about the Rosewood, you didn't hear it. They made the movie and all, but nobody never talked about Rosewood. Nobody, knew nothing 'bout Rosewood ‘cause you didn't talk about it. They don't even have the town no more. They just have a sign, whatever. I was thinking 'bout it the other night, I woke up, I said the only home I got is in heaven ‘cause I don't have no home. ‘Cause Rosewood is no home no more, nobody stay there. Nothing there. And I thought about it the other day, these things come to me and I don't know why and I was just thinking about it. But I don't know anything, I can't tell you anything about Rosewood, not nothing. At three years old it would seem like I should have could’ve remember something 'bout being in the house by myself or sneaking through the woods or whatever, but I just





don't. I don't remember my momma with me, I don't remember getting on the train, I don't know. All I could remember is I was in Gainesville, that's all I could remember and I was old enough and Momma held me by the hand ‘cause the church that my brothers was older than me and they went to Catholic school and that's the thing I remember. About five years old and I could remember from then on, but other than that I don't remember.

	M:	At that age I wouldn't expect you to. That’s pretty young. Well, I guess we'd better wrap this up pretty soon. Is there anything else you'd like to add about the neighborhood you grew up in or anything like that?

	D:	I don't know anything about Rosewood, really. I can't tell you anything about that, only town I know about is Gainesville, Florida and I was down there when we was living behind the train shed. And I could remember that time, that's when I grow up to start the school. My brother's was going to school, going to the Catholic school ‘cause they was older than me. ‘Cause Wilson was four years older than me and I think he was seven years old when the Rosewood riot was ‘cause he seen and I don't know why he could know so much ‘cause he had couldn't been but seven years old. Because I was three and he was four years older than me, you know.

So I imagine he was about seven years old.



	M:	I see, and your siblings didn't talk about it either to you?



	D:	Nobody talked about it ‘cause there was nobody home. Now, my sister Margery, when we moved to the fairground that's when Margery met a man, name was Buster Barnes. And she had one child from Buster Barnes and that was at the fairground. That was at the camp at fairground. At the fairground ‘cause they had





the stair was out there and we left where we all was living ‘cause she was still home with my momma then when she had him and she married Buster Barnes. She was the first one to marry, Buster Barnes, and she had a son, one child.

	M:	Well, is there anything else you'd like to add before we close out this interview?



	D:	All I can really say is—‘cause I don't know nothing about no computer and I didn't learn that through search, you know, ‘cause I was told that I should search to try to find out more about my dad, but that been years and years ago. See, ‘cause I know my daddy had another family I think, ‘cause my momma must’ve been young when she married my daddy, must have been real young, you know. And I don't know if he had another family, but I know he had a sister and I can't remember his sister's name, but I know my momma said that he had a sister and she was living in Newberry. But I never did get over there to try to find her, I never did and I don't remember my momma either. ‘Cause she must have been sick or whatever and there was a lady was living with her, taking care of her, taking care of my daddy’s sister. And that's all I could know about that, ‘cause momma mentioned that, but she never went over there to see her and I didn't go either ‘cause I was going to school. And we didn't have anything to ride in if nobody cares to really go anywhere, you know, so I didn't never get to Newberry to see her.

	M:	I see.



	D:	I imagine it probably is some more, cause my daddy had a brother, I was told he had a brother there. In Rosewood, but I don't know anything about it ‘cause mother never mentioned it, you know, just talking about a boy who got caught in this lawsuit because his mother told him about it. ‘Cause he didn't live there either, but





his mother lived there so that made him a descent. But he called it ‘cause his mother told him all about what had happened and told him to don't say anything about it ‘cause they all was scared, they didn't talk about it. And after he got grown, he decided he gonna find out about it so he got Harlan and Knight the law man, White folks with him, the attorneys and then he searched it up and that's what ‘cause for me to know as much as I do now about it ‘cause I wouldn't have never know anything about my daddy. I wouldn't have never knew that he was from Africa, Nigeria. Said I should check and I said it might be some kins or people that's Halls, but it's a lot of Halls. I know it's a Hall that live in Brightsville and she's White and, I can be so silly, and I asked her, I said, “You know, my daddy was a Hall,” and I asked her what was her whole name Hall and so she said she married into Hall, so it wasn't her family name. And I thought, well afterward, I said, I shouldn't have been saying that to that White lady. But I don't know and I just asked her and she didn't think nothing of it and she said, “No, I'm married to a Hall,” so that's why her name is Hall. She lives in Brightsville. Now, I attended the Democrat meeting, I go, but if they're having it tonight, I'm not going.

	M:	I see. So one last question, when did you become more comfortable talking about Rosewood? Or have you become more comfortable talking about Rosewood?

	D:	Well, you know what, to be honest with you, I don't know. But with me, I always say, now God knows this is the truth and I guess the Lord just dwells with me, but I always say when I was growing up, I say maybe one time maybe they would give us something from Rosewood, or maybe a piece of something and give us something from Rosewood. I own my daddy land and I don't know nothing about





and I said, “Maybe one day something will happen about that,” and that's the way I always thought about it. And so when that happened then I said, “Well, thank you Lord.” Well, I don't have no grudge or no anything about it, you know, against people or whatever. Because, I said, “Well, at least I'm living better than I would have been if it hadn't been for the Rosewood.” So, I can't feel nothing about it or nothing. I said, “Because at least I always wanted me a home,” ‘cause from reading the Bible it said God bless the child that have his own. And I know what my family had and I know what Dosia, my sister, had and I know what my daddy had, but that was my daddy's and he's gone and Momma's gone, but I still didn't have anything. And so I said, “Well I know what I'll do. I'm gonna buy me a home, I'm gonna buy me a car, and heaven help me to dress up and look good and not worry about it,” and that's the way I felt about it. And when I got the money that's what I did, I spent all of my money, I didn't try to save none. I think I had, seven hundred and five something after I paid, ‘cause I paid my furniture bill, I paid a hundred and eight thousand cash dollars for a home in Jacksonville and I shouldn’t have with this two acres of land out here, I don't know why, but I said, “Well, that would be mine.” And I bought that and I sold it. I bought it and I paid a hundred and eight thousand dollars for it, but I sold and I got twenty one thousand, so I got what I paid for it out of that. And then I bought me a car, brought me a brand new car and I paid cash for that car. If it hadn't have been for Rosewood riot, I don't know what would've been with me. I wouldn't have had nothing, I couldn't have been, ‘cause I was working hard. I was working two jobs and trying to help my sister Dosia here and when time come for income tax, I put my sister Dosia on my





income tax to help me to get some of my money back. And I did and when I got my income tax and I would get some back and so then and for a couple of years, the attorney of revenue asked me why was I carrying Dosia on the income tax? And I still filed, but I didn't say nothing. So then my momma said, “Mary, you tell them people the truth why this you got on your income tax.” So I sat down, and I could write then, so I wrote them a letter and explained to them why I was carrying on my income tax. Because I was living in Jacksonville, she was living here and I had a little girl and she was taking care of my little girl, looking out for me. And that's why I put her on the income tax, because she doesn't have a husband and I said, and she don't have no income and I said, and in that time her husband was sick and with the heart was bad, I said that's why I put her on my income. I said, and I send some money. I said I sent some from twelve to ten and twelve dollars every week and then I sent them and at that time through the post office. I would go to Jacksonville and I would get me a post note for twelve dollars or eleven dollars and mailed to my sister and I kept that stamp, whatever you do, you know, and I kept that. So then I took that and I sent that to the revenue people, why I was paying my sister and sent them that ticket that I was paying her and I never heard nothing heard nothing else from them about it. They never asked me nothing else and I still kept all my income tax and so then after about two years or more after he died, then my mind told me said, “Mary, said take Dosia off there now. You have to pay that money back, take her off there now and be honest about it,” and I just took her off and didn't send in no more and that's how that got to be.

	M:	I see, well, I suppose to this is the time to close, but thank you very much for this





interview. It's been a pleasure.



	D:	And thank you for coming. Thank you for everything. [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Justin Dunnavant, August 15, 2016 Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, February 26, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 22, 2019