AAHP 284; Leath; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 284 Henry Leath and Mattie Leath African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed conducted by Gigi Simmons on September 8, 2012 50 minutes | 24 pages



Abstract: Henry and Mattie Leath were both born in the South—Henry in Gainesville and Mattie in Georgia—in the early 1930s. Mattie came to Gainesville when she was ten years old. Henry and Mattie lived in the Porters community, and they ended up meeting at Lincoln High school. Henry dropped out of school in 11th grade to work, and joined the military for a year, while Mattie went to Fort Valley State College in Georgia after high school to study English. Henry and Mattie then talk about life in Porters, the dearth of Black businesses and shrinkage of the community, and the train station. At the end, Henry and Mattie express pride in and love for Porters Quarters.



Keywords: [Gainesville; Porters community; education; segregation]

















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 284

Interviewee: Henry Leath and Mattie Leath Interviewer: Gigi Simmons

Date: August 28, 2014



	S:	Hi, my name is Gigi Simmons, and I am sitting at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Henry and Mattie Leath. I’m gonna introduce Mr. Henry Leath and Mr. Leath, could you say your name and tell us how old you are?

	HL:	My name is Henry W. Leath and I am eighty-two years old.



	S:	Okay and next to him is his wife Mrs. Mattie Leath. Ms. Mattie Leath can you say your name and tell us how old you are?

	ML:	My name is Mattie P. Leath and I am seventy-nine years old. I will be eighty next Spring.

	S:	Well, first of all let me say thank you for having me here and taking the opportunity to interview you. I want to ask each of you, starting with you Mr. Henry, where were you born?

	HL:	I was born in Gainesville, Florida. S:	What about you Ms. Leath?

	ML:	I was born in Abbeville, Georgia.



	S:	Okay. What year was that Mr. Henry? HL:	In 1930, 10th of February.

	S:	Okay. What about you Mrs. Mattie? ML:	October 17th, 1932.

	S:	Okay. Mr. Henry, did you have brothers and sisters? HL:	Two brothers and four sisters.

	S:	Okay and are you the oldest or the youngest? HL:	I’m the third-oldest.





	S:	Okay. Were you born in a hospital or were you born in a house, at home? HL:	I was born in the house.

	S:	Okay. Did you hear stories about your birth? Did they talk about your birth when you were growing up?

	HL:	Vaguely, yeah.



	S:	What type of stories did you hear? HL:	[Laughter] [Inaudible 2:00]

	S:	Your mother had a hard time bringing you in here?



	HL:	No, I don’t think so. [Inaudible 2:13] don’t remember talking about births or nothing like that.

	S:	Okay. What about you Mrs. Mattie? Do you have any brothers and sisters? ML:	I have three sisters living. I had three brothers.

	S:	Okay. Were you the oldest or the youngest? ML:	I was the second oldest. I am the oldest girl.

	S:	Okay. Were you born at a hospital or were you born at home? ML:	I was born at home.

	S:	Okay. Did you ever hear stories about your birth?



	ML:	Not really. I guess, you know, people have midwives and I never heard anything because then people didn’t really talk about things like that with their children and cause I had, if my mother had a hard time or not, I don’t know. She never talked about it.

	S:	Okay. Mr. Henry. What did your parents do? Was your mother a homemaker?



What was your father’s occupation?





	HL:	My father was a presser and he pressed clothes working in a dry cleaner, [inaudible 3:25] Dry Cleaner and my mother, she was a homemaker.

	S:	Okay. So your father was a presser, he worked at the dry cleaners. And your mother—

	HL:	[Inaudible 3:35] Dry Cleaner. S:	What was it again?

	HL:	[Inaudible 3:37] Stocks S:	Okay.

	HL:	He was a presser. He pressed clothes. S:	Okay and what about your mom?

	HL:	She was a homemaker. She stayed at home. S:	Stayed at home with the kids?

	Hl:	Mmhm.



	S:	Okay. What about you Mrs. Mattie, what about your parents? What did they do?



	ML:	My father, as far as I can remember, was a pulpwood worker and he fell dead on his job. He was 35 years old. My mother raised us by herself. Did a very good job. Worked real hard in the field, doing people clothes. After we moved to Gainesville, she studied, she wanted to stay at home with her children so she washed and ironed for people and worked in their homes, raised her children, sent them to college, high school and college. Did a wonderful job with her children.

	S:	Mmhm. Well what was a pulpwood? What type of work was that? ML:	I really don’t know. I guess they—





	HL:	They would cut trees and small pine trees a certain side and they cut it up a certain length and they load it up on trucks.

	S:	Okay.



	HL:	You see, take it to the paper mill [inaudible 5-11-05:13]



	S:	Okay. What year, Mrs. Mattie, did you come to Gainesville?



	ML:	We came to Gainesville, let me see, next month will be 70 years that we’ve been here.

	S:	How many? 7-0? 70?



	ML:	7-0. [Laughter] So really, I consider Gainesville as my home. I was just 10 years old when we came. I was 10 on October the 17th and we came the next week.

	S:	Okay.



	ML:	So I remember that.



	S:	Do you have family—what brought you to Gainesville?



	ML:	My mother had an aunt that wanted her to be here with her. She thought it would be better for her if she could do better by her children and everything and that was the reason we came.

	S:	Oh, and that was after your father passed? ML:	That was after my father passed.

	S:	Okay. How did you get to Gainesville? Did you ride the train or car? How did you get here?

	ML:	We came on the train.



	S:	Okay. Let me ask both of you this question. As a child, what games do you remember playing? As a child, what fun activities did you do?





	HL:	Shooting marbles and playing hopscotch and hide and go seek and playing ball in the street.

	S:	Mmhm. Baseball? Kickball? Stickball?



	HL:	Stickball. Tennis ball [inaudible 6:54] that’s the only thing we [inaudible 7:15] riding horses on the stick.

	S:	Oh, wow.



	HL:	[inaudible 7:21]



	S:	Yeah. Horses on a stick. HL:	Lone Ranger, all afternoon

	S:	What about you Mrs. Mattie? What do you remember playing as a child?



	ML:	Playing house. That was one of my favorite things that we did. Shooting marbles. Mostly being a girl, we just had our playhouse. We didn’t have dolls as such. We would take pull up grass and had a root to it, a long root that was the doll’s hair. We would take the other part of it and put—wrap it around, make a dress for it and wrap it around. But we took that root part of that grass and that was to have the dolls that we would.

	S:	Okay. Yeah, that was—the kids now certainly don’t do that. They don’t play outside as much and enjoy the outdoors. So did you have a happy childhood?

	ML:	Yes.



	S:	Yes. What about you Mr. Henry?



	HL:	We had a wonderful childhood because we didn’t know nothing but farm not a whole lot of trouble you could get into because you know the consequences.

	S:	Mr. Henry, you were born in Gainesville. Were you born and raised in Porters?





	HL:	No. I was born on Columbus Street. The street going in front of Lincoln High School. That’s A. Quinn Jones now. But 7th avenue [inaudible 9:18].

	S:	In front of A. Quinn Jones?



HL:  [Inaudible 9:20] that’s 7th Avenue. Yeah 7th Avenue. S:   But it was called Columbus Street?

HL: Columbia Street. S: Columbia Street? HL:  Mmhm.

	S:	Okay.



	HL:	I was going right down, just before you get to 13th street. They call it at that particular time 9th street.

	S:	Okay.



	HL:	Yeah. [Inaudible 9:50-] That’s where I was [inaudible 9:53] S:	Okay.

	HL:	It was [inaudible 9:55]



	S:	Okay. When you came to Gainesville, where did you move? Where you come to?



Where did your aunt live at?



	ML:	Believe it or not, the same street here. This was called Arredondo. S:	So when you came to Gainesville, you came to Porters?

	ML:	When we came to Gainesville, we came to Porters. A block or two, got in the street from where I am now.

	S:	Okay and you were ten years old. ML:	I was ten years old.





	S:	So when you came, what school did you attend when you came to Gainesville? ML:	Williams Elementary.

	S:	What about you Mr. Henry, what school did you go to? HL:	Lincoln High School.

	S:	When did you two meet?



	ML:	We met—I was in high school and really I knew Henry from since I was a little girl. His father had a pressing business down the street here, and Henry used to stand out on the corner with his nice pressed pants on because his father did that. And I met Henry at a real, kinda early age. I didn’t care too much about him. He was kinda a snob, like, I thought. And if anybody would’ve told me that that’s who I would’ve spent the rest of my life with, I never would’ve known—I never would’ve believed it. So that’s how I met Henry. Then one—when I went to high school I went to a football game, and Henry was there. I had on a red suit, I’ll never forget. I don’t know, Henry started talking to me, and we went to a dance afterwards and we danced together a lot, and the next day, the next week or whenever, he started coming down to the house. And he was working downtown to a shoe store, and during his lunch hour he would come to the house. I thought nothing of it, you know; I really didn’t care that much about him. Didn’t care whether he came or not. But he started coming down, and from there we just started, I don’t know, I guess we just started dating each other. [Laughter] That’s where it started.

	S:	When you said he used to come and visit you, was he charming? Was he a nice fellow?





	ML:	Of course he was. S:	He was a good guy? ML:	Yes.

	S:	Okay.



	ML:	And he made me a belt. I still have that belt. S:	Really?

	ML:	I still have it. I couldn’t put my hands on it right now but I do know I have it. S:	Was Mr. Henry your first love?

	ML:	Really, yes.



	S:	That’s wonderful.



	ML:	Because there were other guys in high school, you know how you just want a boyfriend, but just really falling in love with [inaudible 13:27].

	S:	Aw. Well Mr. Henry, what did you see in Mrs. Mattie? How did—you just saw a beautiful young lady and you just thought she was something really special?

	HL:	Yup. Mmhm. That’s what I did. I just thought she was a nice person.



	S:	Well, I wanna back up a few—I wanna go back a little bit. Prior to you guys meeting and becoming an item, Mrs. Mattie you were in the Porters community. Mr. Henry at that time, you were on Northwest 7th street.

	HL:	No, no. That’s where I was born.



	S:	That’s where you were born? Okay.



	HL:	I was raised right around there [inaudible 12:26].



	S:	So when did you come into the Porters community?



	HL:	I don’t know. When I was a baby. Right after I was born.





	S:	Okay. Shortly after you was born, you came into the Porters community and Mrs.



Mattie, you came into the community around the age of ten years old to come live with your aunt and be next to other relatives?

	ML:	Yes.



	S:	Okay. What was it like living in the Porters community during those days—during those times? I know it was segregation. I know we were going through a lot as a country, but tell me from your point of view, what was it like living in Porters?

	ML:	Well, just living in Porters was alright. It was like any other place in Gainesville as far as Blacks and Whites were concerned. We stayed in our community and they stayed in theirs. Most of the businesses were owned by Whites, which meant that we had to go to the stores or wherever we had to go, we went in the White community to do it because there were very few, very few Black businesses in our community. I remember one—Al Higgins had a little store here that we would go to. Most all the other places were owned by Whites. So it was like—it was our way of living. We didn’t know any difference. That was just our way of living and we accepted it and being a child we didn’t know any better. And there were few— there have always been people that really reached out and tried to make things better but those people had to have a lot of gall to really do things like that.

Which means you know, there have always been people like that that would do it and that’s what made things the way they are now. Those people that were able to reach out were not afraid to reach out for a better life. But just really growing up in the Porters community, it was like anything else, we knew what were supposed to do and what we were supposed to do. If we went to a place to eat, I





remember Louis Hamburger stand, right next to [inaudible 17:19] Baptist Church in those days and it was over where we called the [inaudible 17:26].

	S:	Right.



	ML:	And Louis Hamburger stand was there. I remember as a child coming from Sunday school, if I wanted a hamburger, I had to go to the back of that place and stick my head through a little hole that they had cut out and order what I wanted. I hated that as a child when I would see other people in the front and we had to go to the back with that little board across there to eat on.

	S:	So at that time, Louis Hamburgers, they served their Black customers in the back like everybody else did during those times and how did that make you feel?

	ML:	I hated that. That was the only thing that I can really remember as a child that I did not like and that was sticking my head through that little hole and order what I wanted. And I don’t know why I kept doing it but I did.

S:  What about you Mr. Henry? What was the—as a child growing up in the Porters community, what was the atmosphere? What was the culture like? How did you feel as a child growing up in the community?

	HL:	I felt okay. I mean, we had a whole lotta [inaudible 19:02] there were a lot of kids, playing with them. We didn’t a whole lotta attitudes or nothing like that. We didn’t have [inaudible 19:16] but we made our [inaudible 19:18] everything we did, we had to make it ourselves. We’d get together and make [inaudible 19:27] and skate mobiles and things like that. We had a good life, not under the conditions.

	S:	And what were the conditions? How did it make you feel as Mrs. Mattie just expressed going to Louis Hamburgers and ordering food—ordering a hamburger





in the back of the building in a little hole and putting her head through a hole to order food? What experience did you have growing up as a young man in Gainesville? What was your experience like?

	HL:	I had quite an experience growing up. We had—we didn’t a want for anything. My mother never had any—they couldn’t [inaudible 20:31] us but we grew up. Now, they practically gave us the best they could and me, I just—my life wasn’t so great cause I got shot [inaudible 20:51] when I was a [inaudible] years old?

And that was due to my fault. [Inaudible 21:00] and after that life changed.



	S:	I’m sure it did, Henry. In those days when you were living, did you have a telephone?

	ML:	No. [Laughter]



	HL:	No. We didn’t have no telephone.



	S:	You didn’t have a telephone? I was speaking to—I was doing an interview and I’ma ask you this question and I wanna see if you guys give me the same answer. Did you have electricity?

	HL:	We did.



	ML:	Henry’s family did. We did too, later on in life. But when we first came here, like I told you, my mother with her six children and you know, she was the only one working. We had lamps. We had lamps until, oh gosh, I think I was in high school when we get electric—and we were so happy and everything. But you know, you never miss what you never had so we had the lamps and that’s what we used.

We had about two or three lamps. We take ‘em from room to room and that’s the way we lived.





	S:	One interview I did, the guy said they had lamps and they had one light bulb in the middle of one room. That was their electricity—was in one like—the living room. But other than that, they had lamps. So, what about running water. You had running water?

	HL:	Yeah we had—no, we didn’t. It was a later date we did. S:	What about you Mrs. Mattie?

	ML:	We got running water—I was in high school [inaudible 23:22]. We had a pump. S:	Okay.

	ML:	And we would make sure during the night we had everything filled with water and time to take a bath. We had re-got the tubs—the wash tubs and filled them with water, reheated water, we took our bath.

	S:	What about a TV set? You had a TV set? That’s what they called it back then, a TV set.

	ML:	We got our first TV set after we were married. [Laughter] S:	Okay.

	ML:	I remember we used to go to Henry’s aunt’s house to watch TV. Paladin, Gunsmoke, those were our two favorite shows, you know. We would go to her house to watch TV.

	S:	Wow. Was anybody—Henry, was you in the military? Was you in the armed services?

	HL:	Yeah, I was in the Service in [19]48. S:	What branch?

	HL:	In the infantry.







S:



HL:

In 1948?



Mmhm.

S:

How long did you serve in the military?

HL:

One year.

S:

One year?

HL:

Mmhm. September 3rd we were discharged. September 3, [19]49.

S:

You was discharged? Do you mind me asking why you was discharged or you



don’t wanna talk about it?

HL:

Oh yeah, well I didn’t sign up for but a year.

S:

Oh okay.

HL:

I signed up for a year and stayed in reserve for 6 years.

S:

Okay.

HL:

And [inaudible 25:15]

S:

Oh. So you never went to a war or anything like that.

HL:

War broke out soon as I got out of discharge. I was discharged in [19]49 and



broke out the same year in Korea.

S:

Wow. I know you was happy about that.

HL:

Mmhm.

S:

Mmhm. So did you graduate from high school Mrs. Mattie?

ML:

Yes, I graduated from high school and then I went to Fort Valley State College in



Fort Valley, GA.

S:

Okay. Wonderful. What about you Mr. Henry?

HL:

I quit school in eleventh grade.





	S:	You quit school?



	HL:	Yeah, I stopped in the eleventh grade.



	S:	Did you go to work? Or that’s when you signed up for the military?



	HL:	No, I was working, I went to work. See I worked a while. That’s when I got shot. S:	Oh Okay.

	HL:	[Inaudible 26:13] service after I got everything at the high school. [Inaudible 26:19] They said I ain’t nothing but a server.

	S:	Okay. What did you study in college Mrs. Mattie? ML:	English.

	S:	Oh okay. Did you like it? Did you like going off to college? ML:	Yes, I did.

	S:	That’s good. Well I wanna talk about the Porters community and how it impacted people lives. I know from being in the community, the time I’ve been in the community that at one point in time it was really big, it went past North Alachua General Hospital and Porters was a big community and as the time goes on, it seems like its shrinking. Like Porters keep getting smaller and smaller and smaller. And I remember Mr. Jean-Mills’ machine shop, his automotive shop.

What other businesses that were Black-owned do you remember and what type of atmosphere did the Porters community provide for young Black people? How did Porters—by being in Porters or coming to Porters, living in Porters and working in Porters, what was the effect of that to different people? Could you explain to me from your point of view how Porters impacted people lives?





	ML:	Well, as far as Black businesses over here, I don’t remember—like you said Mr. Mills had his auto shop that he worked in his backyard. He had a building in the backyard that he worked on cars. Then there was Mr. Al’s store, and of course there were little, what we call little juke joints around, where people had—that was about the only place people go to really have fun, you know, somewhat on weekends mostly and there was Ikes place, which was one of the, kinda center places of Porters that people went to, just really hang out and be together and have fun and all but as far as other businesses, I can’t remember anything else over here that was owned by Blacks. So when we went—when we wanted to go out and really do things, we would go what we call across town in the Northwest section over there, way on 5th Avenue—

Recording Stops



	ML:	And that’s where we would go, dancehalls and stuff like that. But as far as being ‘round here in Porters and other—

[Break in recording]



	ML:	There were no other places to go really.



	S:	How did the railroad affect the life of people in Porters? I know you grew in Porters. Tell me about your experience because I know—first of all, what do you remember about the train coming through Porters, or coming through Gainesville in those days?

	ML:	We lived on the corner of what is now 6th street and Depot Avenue. There was the Seaboard train going one way, and the passenger train going the other way. The Seaboard train, I remember like it were yesterday. I got the worst whipping





almost that I have ever gotten because somebody told my mother that I was swinging on the Seaboard train while it was going, and I was not. I was afraid to get near the train, because I remember the train used to go real slow, but now, all that smoke coming out of it and everything—. But somebody told my mother when this train was going slow I grabbed the—two of them were swinging on it, you know, like you see in Westerns or something like that—

	S:	Right, right.



	ML:	And I remember the train coming up and down the tracks, I remember the smoke; you know, it would always be slow. Always loud with the blower blowing the horn and all. But you know what? We lived through that, because I think we somewhat tuned it out, you know. Because I remember one where the passenger train was going, it was right by our house, and it would sometimes go in the night and we would hear it and not hear it. So the train was just a part of Porters.

	S:	When the train came through, was your house shaking? Was it that close where you could—the vibration?

	ML:	We didn’t pay any attention to that. But it was just that close, I know that.



Because we—the train was on one side of the street and we were on the other side where we lived. So we lived right by the train track.

	S:	What about you Mr. Henry? What do you remember about the train? HL:	I don’t remember nothing about ‘em.

	ML:	Talk louder.



	HL:	I remember when the passenger trains used to go down Main Street, and I remember when they changed it and put it on—reroute the tracks and brought it





up 6th street. And they built a new train station. Now the old station was right there where the Florida National [inaudible 32:50] is now [inaudible 32:53]. The passenger train station, of course that was the freight train and everything used to go down. That’s all in the track [inaudible 33:12] and then the Seaboard used to go down Depot—

S:   Depot?



HL:  Depot Avenue. They used to come back two times a day and Atlanta [inaudible 33:32] move the new stations that they had passenger service two times a day. They were recorded, what were they? 39 in Florida?

S:   That was the numbers of the train?



HL:  Yeah. 39. 31 going North and 1 going South, 40 going North, 39 going South. It would go from Miami to New York.

S:   Okay.



	HL:	There were two times, I think. One going South, one going North. [Inaudible 34:20] the T&J, they were a freight, freighting line, all lenders. The sidetrack was what they call the train, they would deliver their freight from town to town.

	S:	What type of freight—what type of products was on the freight? Was it timber, cotton?

	HL:	No, they’re all [inaudible 34:50] sometimes it became, sometimes it—but mostly it was commercial stuff like in Kobackers? With companies with their orders still from—they put it on the side tracker [inaudible 35:03] it would be delivered. [Inaudible 35:08] our duty was to disperse the freight that—during the freight trains going south and north. They would put it on side track and the T&J





would deliver it from different places like Bell hardware and different, different stores, different [inaudible 35:55] they already had [inaudible 35:57] automobiles, they were getting their own car on the track.

	S:	Did you ever ride the train?



	HL:	Yeah. Yeah I rode it. [Laughter] It was the only time [inaudible 36:11] from here to New York.

	S:	You rode the train Mrs. Mattie?



	ML:	Yes, that’s the way we came here. We came to Gainesville on a train.



	S:	That’s right, that’s right. Did you ever ride to anywhere—any other place? ML:	Going back to Alabama to visit, yes.

	S:	Okay. Do you remember how much a ticket was? Getting on a train. ML:	No, I don’t but I’m sure it wasn’t that much.

	S:	Yeah. You remember Henry, how much? HL:	About $34 dollars, I think it was.

	S:	For a ticket? A train ticket? HL:	Uh-huh.

	S:	Did you pack food to take on the train? ML:	Yes.

	S:	Okay. Were there always passengers on the train? ML:	Yes.

	S:	Okay. Now, at the train depot, that was where the train pulled in. Was there like a ticket booth at the train depot? And you would just go in and well, go up to the counter, get your ticket? Was that what the train depot was for?





	HL:	Yeah, they had a waiting room and— S:	Yeah, all kinds—

	HL:	They had a waiting room and they had a regular train station, they had ticket booths inside, they had toilets and everything in that waiting room. Go in there and get your tickets and sit down and wait until the train.

	S:	Do you know if the train was powered by coal? Was it a coal engine or—?



	HL:	Yeah most of ‘em at that particular time, up to a certain length of year, they would primarily run-on coal.

	S:	Okay.



	HL:	And then the converter stopped, converted over to the diesel engine and then they was coal engines for long time.

	S:	Did a lot of—any of your friends, did they work at the train depot?



	HL:	Yeah, I know Mr. Dixon. He was a fireman. He was a fireman on the Seaboard, for the Seaboard coal line for years up until he retired.

	S:	Okay. What is your fondest memories of the train, Mrs. Mattie?



	HL:	[Inaudible 38:52] on the train. Past the train from Jacksonville to New York. [Inaudible 38:59]

	S:	When you were on the passenger train, did you have a car for Colored and a car for Whites?

	ML:	Yes.



	HL:	On alert times, they had, yeah they had, they were segregated. S:	Train?

	HL:	Yeah.





	S:	So you couldn’t—



	HL:	They had sections for Colored, sections for Whites.



	S:	Well, what was your memorable moment on the train, Mrs. Mattie?



	ML:	Just as a child, just for you know, being on a train, you know. It was enjoyable. S:	Did it go through a lot of little neighborhoods and communities, towns—?

	ML:	Yes.



	S:	Did it make a lot of stops from Gainesville to where you were going to your home—birthplace?

	ML:	Not really. I believe it stopped in Jacksonville and some parts of—and some other part of Georgia. I can’t remember exactly where.

	S:	Okay. When you look back on your life—and I’m going ask you this first, Mrs. Mattie, so Mr. Henry you could think about it—when you look back on your life, what are you most proud of?

	ML:	When I look back on my life, I’m proud of my mother and how she raised us. We were real poor. We didn’t have anything but we were happy. You don’t miss what you never had and we were happy. We never went hungry, we didn’t have the best of clothes and everything but when we went out, we looked decent. We had our Sunday clothes as they called them and then we had our everyday clothes.

We had our clothes we wore to school, when we came home we had to pull ‘em off and put on our play clothes. And when I look back over my life, I don’t think— under the circumstances, I don’t think I would’ve changed anything. If I had to live it over again, on my childhood, during my childhood days, I wouldn’t change anything because we were loved by our mother, we were loved by our relatives





and maybe if I had to, after I grew up, there are some things I probably would have, would have changed if I could, you know, I would change; but growing up as a child, no.

	S:	What lessons would you like to pass on to the younger generation?



	ML:	First thing, obey your parents. Obey your parents and the Lord. And before you do things, think, because I think a lot of our young people today, if they would think of the consequences of things that they do, they wouldn’t do them and so when I see young people today, obey your parents, think before you do anything. Think of the consequences that you have to pay and believe in yourself.

	S:	That’s wonderful. I think that’s a great—I think that’s great Mrs. Mattie. Okay. Mr.



Henry, when you look back on your life, what are you most proud about?



	HL:	I most likely wanted to be what I am now. We was successful in having a roof, good family life, and I appreciate it and we didn’t have no hardship or nothing like that. It was—matter of fact, I remember the people of Porters Quarters didn’t— we got along real good. We didn’t have no problems with Porter Quarters so for us the only thing—people worked for what they got and I think they did wonderful. I ain’t never known nobody to go hungry or [inaudible 44:11] some of ‘em had a little bit more than others but there wasn’t that much difference with what one family had more than the other ‘cause one or two people in Porters Quarters that had automobiles and things like that, they wasn’t poor cause people—they had cows, they had taxi cab [inaudible 44:41] but that wasn’t important, I don’t think to the people in Porters cause they didn’t care too much about automobiles, some of them did, some of them didn’t. Back then we was





very fortunate to be a part of Porters Quarters ‘cause it was a good neighborhood. So far as I’m concerned, we got a bad name for some of the things that happened in Porters Quarters, but the people of Porters Quarters didn’t do all those things, it was something that people come from different neighborhoods that would get in fights and cut up one another. But they wasn’t from Porters Quarters, but all those things happened in Porters Quarters. Now, Porters Quarters got the name for it. They had the little incidences that happened to the established, the jerks, where they called them jerk drivers. It happened to the jerk drivers that was in Porters Quarters, that was [inaudible 45:46] people get around there and you could drink and then start a fight and wasn’t that that didn’t happen real often there. [Inaudible 46:00] somebody who get in a fight or something like that that. But whenever that happened it didn’t—it wasn’t the people of Porters Quarters, but Porters Quarters got the name for it, and they would say Porters Quarters that we had a bad name ever since the beginning when all that started. But when it started, it just stuck, that Porters Quarters had a bad reputation.

	S:	Had a bad rep.



	HL:	Yeah.



	S:	Well, what lessons would you like to pass on to the younger generation?



	HL:	Stay out of trouble. Stay away from drugs. Stay away from drugs and alcohol.



You can make it.



	S:	Well are there any stories that you would like to include that I haven’t asked either one of you about? Anything you wanna say? That I haven’t asked you





about. Anything you want anybody to know about the Porters community or about your life, is there anything that you wanna add?

	ML:	I would just like to say that I’m really proud to be a part of Porters Quarters. I’ve never been ashamed of living over here and this is where we bought this house. We knew where we were buying it. We knew what neighborhood it was in and that’s because I love this neighborhood. There are wonderful people here, there have been wonderful people here that have gone on before and those people— some of those people were people that inspired the neighborhood, did wonderful things for the neighborhood and I’m not ashamed of the neighborhood and I love it and this is where I’m sure I will end up. I started in Porters Quarters, and I’m sure this is where I will end up, in Porters Quarters, and I’m not ashamed of it.

	S:	Okay.



	ML:	I love Porters and I love the people in Porters.



	S:	Well, thank you so much for that, Mrs. Mattie. What about you Mr. Henry, is there any stories that you would like to include that I haven’t asked you about or anything you’d like to say?

	HL:	I would like to say that I’m proud to be a part of Porters Quarters ‘cause my mother, she was a hard worker. She was a hard working lady for the Porters Quarters neighborhood and my father, too. They had—they owned the dry cleaners down here and they were on that for years and she did everything that she could to make us—did everything she could not only for her children but for anybody else’s children that she could help, you know. I’m just proud to be a part of it. [Inaudible 49:12] my heritage and I love it, and I knew it all my life, that’s all.





I don’t know nothing else but Porters Quarters and I love it. I’m proud of it and love it.

	S:	Well, thank you so much. Thank you both for sharing your story with us. It was very, very powerful and I thank you once again for allowing me to come here and do this interview. Thank you, once again.

	ML:	You’re welcome.



	S:	Okay.



	HL:	Think nothing of it. [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Amelia D’costa, October 31, 2014 Audit-edited By:	Sandra Romero, April 3, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 23, 2019