AAHP 467; Lopez; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 467 Roberta Lopez

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Marna Weston on August 7, 2012 33 minutes | 15 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 467

Interviewee: Roberta Lopez Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: August 7, 2012



	W:	All right, this is Marna Weston with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program on August 7, 2012 with Roberta Lopez. Roberta, thank you very much for coming for the interview.

	L:	You’re welcome.



	W:	Could you talk about how long you’ve been a Democrat?



	L:	I’ve been a Democrat for about forty years, maybe even more. It’s been so long I really don’t remember exactly but, you know, I’m not a spring chicken. So, I’ve been a Democrat all my life and of course my parents were. So, it was just traditional that I become a Democrat.

	W:	So, you’ve always been a citizen activist, very involved?



	L:	Yes, I have. I’ve been active in all sorts of campaigns and all political conversations concerning the elections of our presidents down to just local politicians. So, I’ve been active all my life in politics.

	W:	Now you’ve been elected the mayor of a city in Alachua County and you’re currently running for office. What is it that makes you get involved in these types of activities?

	L:	Well, I think I’m driven because I care about people and I also care about the process. I want to see a lot of prosperous—I want to see Alachua County prosper. I just think that my getting into this particular race was something that was very dear to my heart because I served as vice mayor and mayor of Archer and it’s just in my blood. And of course I did see some things that I thought





needed to be changed and I feel that I can bring a different perspective to county government and make some of those changes.

	W:	I’d like to talk to you on a historic level for just a moment. You shared with me once that you and Frank, your husband, were actually with Martin Luther King when he gave the “I Have a Dream” speech. What was that moment, what was that historic occasion like?

	V:	Well, that moment was lasting. Even now I cannot look at or listen to his speech on television because that particular day it was just so memorable, so enlightening to see this person. And I just can’t get his face out of my mind. I remember walking about five blocks to the mall in Washington to see him and we were very, very close. We heard the entire speech and I just can’t describe that moment. But it’s having an effect on us even now because the memory still lingers and it’s like yesterday.

	W:	Uh-huh.



	V:	But I’m glad I was able to share that moment in that time. For some reason, that particular day, I knew that he felt that he would not be living very long. It was just something in his speech that sent that message. And I think about that a lot, but I’m still happy to be a part of it. I remember when he was assisinated I was coming from work on a bus. Everybody was crying and I’m going up the hill in Northwest Washington and all I could see was smoke from 14th Street where people were so angry, and looting, and stealing, and burning because they were so angry. The only thing I hated about that is that they actually destroyed their own neighborhood, which wasn’t good, but I guess sometimes you don’t know





how you’re going to react to certain things and that was the only way they knew how to react.

	W:	Did you hear Petey Greene on the radio asking people to not loot?



	V:	Oh, yeah. We heard all the pleas from all the celebrities and well-known people to stop the violence and stop the burning because it wasn’t really helping a lot. He was already dead and there was not a lot we could do about it and why destroy your own neighborhood? My husband actually went on the scene because he couldn’t believe that it was happening, but he didn’t stay very long [Laughter] he came home to tell me that, “Oh, I was down on 14th Street” and then he says, “It’s terrible what’s going on, a lot of angry people”. But I remember not being able to sleep for, looked like days, because it was so devastating to me.

	W:	I’d like to ask you one more question about Dr. King and since we’re doing this as a video and as an audio in the background, if you wouldn’t mind just going back and making one more memorable comment about Dr. King and actually use his name in the answer because I didn’t get you saying about Martin Luther King. You could have been speaking about anything.

	V:	Oh, use Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.? W:	Yes, in the answer.

	V:	So, I need to start all over on that one?



	W:	No, you can just say any other thing you want to, but just if you use—when you do it—





	V:	Yeah just use that, okay. Well, anyway I guess I pretty much said everything about him so where do I go from here with the—that I wanted to say about him?

	W:	Any comment you’d like to say about Dr. King as long as you say Dr. Martin Luther King in your answer.

	V:	Well, I think Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. set a standard for all Black people. Now whether or not they’re following that standard, that’s another story. In other words, he had a dream and I’ve seen so much that we’ve accomplished since that time. But I still think that we have a long way to go. Whether or not Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. is satisfied with what’s going on, it would be hard to say because so many things have happened since that time. We have more of our young men in prison, we have more unemployment. So, it would be hard to state and to know what Dr. Martin Luther King would do if he were alive.

	W:	Do you think that Barack Obama as a president meets the standard of what Dr.



King would have wanted as a leader?



	V:	I think that Dr. Martin Luther King would have been very, very, proud of President Barack Obama and what he’s been able to accomplish in such a short period of time. But I also think that he would have been very, very, disappointed with the lack of participation from Congress and the Senate and the people that he works with.

	W:	Uh-huh. Can you please describe how you became a Democrat? I know you tell us you’ve been a Democrat for so long, but how did you actually become a Democrat?





	V:	Well, actually my husband when I—I was married at nineteen and my husband was twenty-one at the time. So, [Laughter] he said when it was time to vote, “Okay, do you have your voters registration?” I said, “No”. He said, “Well, we’re going to get it”. So, he really inspired me to getting my voters registration card and voting because he’s very political so I followed suit. And after that we participated in all kinds of campaigns and just stayed active, but that’s how I actually—other than having the background of my parents being Democrat—but that’s how I actually got involved, though my husband, Francisco Lopez.

	W:	What is it that you love about being a Democrat?



	V:	Well, I love being a Democrat because I feel that we’re more of a humanitarian group. I feel that we care. I feel that the Democrats are passionate about political issues and I also feel that they serve better, they serve the country better.

	W:	What is it about Democrats that make them serve the country better as opposed to the other political groups that exist, in your opinion?

	V:	Well first of all, Democrats, I believe, have a broader sense of what the issues are, whether it be healthcare, community service. I just feel that we have a broader sense of those type of things and that makes us unique in itself. But I also feel that we contribute a lot by participation. The Democrats are usually involved in just about every aspect of the political arena and that’s just the way I can describe it.

	W:	What are some issues that you, as a Democrat and as a political figure, advocate for that keep you in line with the values of the Democratic Party as far as your opinion on that?





	V:	What are the views?



W:  Well what are the policies, particular things that you support that you feel make you a Democrat? You know, “I’m strongly a Democrat because I support these things.”

	V:	Well I’m strongly a Democrat because I support healthcare, I support community service, and I certainly support economic development, and just in general I support everything that’s gonna help the quality of life for the people this county.

	W:	Jobs are a huge issues that people are talking about now—



	V:	Jobs is a huge issue. I don’t know how far you want me to get into that, but I feel that we need to create jobs in order to keep our young people here so that they can build a family and build a community.

	W:	Uh-huh.



	V:	And they should be good paying jobs. We don’t want our people to leave. My children won’t come back because they can’t make the money here that they’re making where they are now. So jobs is a huge, huge, issue right now.

Unemployment rate, just recently I believe it was, maybe it came down a little bit, but it was up to about 9.2%. Gainesville is not quite that high, but I think one reason for that is because we have the universities, Santa Fe, and other schools. So, a lot of people are employed, but are they making any money? The university for example, you’ve got to have custodians, security, and different things like that which may not be paying a lot of money, but they’re employing people.

	W:	Uh-huh.





	V:	But what we’re looking at is jobs that are more technical, like Mindtree for example. They’re coming here and they’re gonna pay $80,000 a year and create so many jobs. Those are the kind of companies that I’m interested in talking to and partnering with because the county with all of the shortfalls coming down from the state of Florida, it’s just almost impossible to have enough funds to do everything that you would like. So we’re gonna have to partner with our public and private sectors in order to get a lot of things done.

	W:	And do you feel that your particular philosophy of being a Democrat is helping President Obama as well?

	V:	Of course. In February I met with some people in Cedar Key and that was the first thing I did this year to help him. And we had lunch at one of the restaurants there and I invited people from all around the county and we raised $7,000 already for his campaign because that’s how much we believe that he’s the best for us at this time.

	W:	Let me ask you as we answer the rest of the questions. You’re doing a terrific job answering the questions—

	V:	I don’t feel like I am.



	W:	The way that we are going to cut it though, we need to hear more “Barack Obama” or the “Democratic Party”. If you could put those key words in your answer, it’ll strengthen everything up.

	V:	Right. Okay.



	W:	Because the answers are great, but as a listener we’re going, “Awe, I wish she’d said Barack Obama or Democratic Party or something”.





	V:	Right.



	W:	Okay. Please share what you remember about the first time you voted for a Democratic presidential candidate.

	V:	Well, the most memorable of course would be voting for President Barack Obama. I don’t even remember what happened on the other side [Laughter] I’m gonna be honest with you. But I remember after the election, I live in Archer, and I had several friends at my home and we did something silly. After it was announced, we got into the car and rode all through town with our heads hanging out of the window yelling, “Barack Obama”. We passed about three or four police officers [Laughter] and we just knew that we were gonna get canted for that, but we didn’t. They just looked and let us go and we came and we would pass them one time and came back again. And I tell you, the feeling was just so, so, wonderful. As a matter of fact, that election inspired me that year in 2008 to run for my second term. I had completed one term in Archer on the city commission and I worked two years writing grants for the city of Archer and then I said, “Oh, well maybe it’s time for me to run again”. But I can tell you I don’t think I would have done it had it not been for our President Barack Obama because I was getting ready to pretty much hang the towel up, but he inspired me and I ran and I won by sixty percent of the vote. So, I was fired up that’s all I’ve got to say and I was I proud to have a man of color in our lives. I mean that is history. I just wish a lot of people who’s gone away now could have been there to see that, which was wonderful and I never thought it would happen.





	W:	Were you concerned that maybe there was a mistake since in 2000 it was announced that Gore had won and then they changed it said, “Well, no wait a second we need to look at it again”. Did any thought like that hit you?

	V:	Oh, yeah. I think we are very concerned about voting and the process because some things did happen back then that was pretty discouraging. But it just proved that Barack Obama was able to pull through that in spite of it all. So, it’s not about what happened then, it’s about what happened in 2008 and I was very proud to be here and still living to see it.

	W:	Did you go to the inauguration? V:	No, I did not.

	W:	But you watched the inauguration on television? V:	Of course.

	W:	What was that like? Watching and hearing his voice?



	V:	Well I think we shared a lot of tears. It was a feeling that you can’t even describe.



But of course we were crying and rooting him on, but he’s in! But, what I am disappointed about is how he’s been treated since he’s been in. I think Barack Obama deserved more respect from his colleagues. I think he should have had more participation from Congress, even from the Democrat. It’s just been awful to watch. I do believe that the Republican Party held Obama down to the point where he even may have been thinking about, “I’m gonna fail”. Because I just cannot believe the disrespect that I’ve seen since he’s been there. And of course I can relate to Obama a little bit myself—being a Black Barack Obama myself— because serving in a small town, in a rural town like Archer, I’ve experienced a





lot of the same things he’s experienced. The jealousy, the rejection, not wanting to cooperate with you to get certain things done, and it’s not everybody it’s just that few. But that few can be very damaging. So a lot of times I’ve listened to him and I’ve really sympathized with him because I can feel being a politician and being Black, living in a small community and dealing with prejudices and all the different things we go through. I could feel every pain that he had, but I tell ya I was proud then and I’m still proud. I just think that we as a people have to back him. I support most of his policies, all of them I should say, and we just have to continue what we are doing. I don’t think we are gonna get anything better. And I have to applaud Chief Justice Roberts for standing up on the Supreme Court to get the Obama Care passed. I think it’s gonna help about thirty million or more people with their insurance. And what I’m experiencing right now, and I’m seeing it even in my own community, there are people there who are not getting the proper healthcare. And one reason is because they don’t have the money, they can’t afford it. So people are actually dying because they can’t go get a physical and when they go, it’s too late. I know two or three people in Archer that that has happened too.

	W:	In the richest nation in the world.



	V:	In the richest nation in the world. So, with the Barack Obama healthcare plan I think it’s gonna help a lot of people. It’s probably gonna help more than thirty million people because some people are gonna lose their jobs and they’re still gonna need that care. So I’m very concerned about healthcare because I see all around me what is happening to people because for the lack of it, for the lack of





having good insurance. I’m just one of the lucky ones. My husband retired and we have good insurance and I’ve often wondered, “How these people living if they can’t go to the doctors? How are they making it?” I guess that’s why you see so many people have bad teeth because they don’t have a dental plan; they can’t afford it. I can’t tell you how much dental care costs. I recently had some and it’s very, very, expensive. So what’s gonna happen? We’re not gonna get dental care, we’re not gonna get healthcare, unless something like Obama Care, Barack Obama Care happen.

W:  I’d like to talk to about the president as the commander in chief. What were your thoughts on the night that you heard that the president had ordered the raid that captured and killed Osama Bin Laden?

	V:	That was another proud moment when I heard that Barack Obama had ordered the assassination of Osama Bin Laden. When it happened I think the whole world was thrilled, but I don’t know if you recall, I didn’t see a lot of fan fair compliments and that sort of thing coming from the Republican Party. It was like, “Oh well, you know, somebody else had already started doing this” and always giving the credit to somebody, but I think that was a big, big, step in his life. For him to stick out his neck, take a chance, and order the assassination of Osama Bin Laden. I was thrilled and I’m sure that a lot of other people were thrilled to, especially the people who was involved in 9/11. I’m sure they were. I’m not gonna say that everybody didn’t give him some kudos, but some of the people that I thought should have given him some, it was like it was no big deal. Again, going back to





not respecting and not giving him credit for what he’s doing for the American people.

	W:	What’re you doing right now to ensure President Obama’s 2012 reelection?



	V:	Well, of course I’m encouraging voter registration. And also, like I said, raising funds, telling everybody to go to the polls, make sure your voting cards are correct because in the past so many things have happened with that and they’re turning us away. Just mostly encouraging people to step up to the plate, get him back in, because I don’t think that we gonna get anything better at this time and sometimes when you change, thinking you’re gonna get something better, you get something worse. And he’s on a course, so, you’ve gotta let him play out that course. He’s gotta play it out in order for you to see some real results and that’s the way I feel. I wouldn’t want to be in the middle of a plan and somebody say, “You gotta go”. I would like to be there to complete that plan and carry out that task.

	W:	What are your thoughts on how the Republican majority legislator in Florida has changed laws concerning early voting and voter ID?

	V:	Well of course I’m not happy with that at all because I think it’s a disadvantage for minorities. I really do. I think that it’s putting a hardship on them, I really do, for them to change that. Even now, churches used to bring busloads of people to the polls, the dates that we go to vote, all of that has changed. So, I don’t agree with those laws. I really don’t and I am concerned about upcoming elections because of them.





	W:	Is there a specific policy, or law, or issue that President Obama supports that you really like that and you believe he will deliver if awarded a second term?

	V:	Obama Care. I do believe that he’s gonna push forward to try to accomplish that goal because again, I think it’s needed. And yeah there’s gonna be a lot—I’m sure that it’s not over just because the Supreme Court took that action, but I would like to see everybody work with him on that and that that policy is pushed forward.

	W:	What do you fear most about this election?



	V:	That people will not go to the polls and vote. I fear that. Right here in our county we’ve moved, we’ve changed voting places. We had sixty-nine polls, it’s down to sixty-three. Just yesterday I was talking to some older gentlemen who said, “I used to vote right down the street, but now I have to go way downtown.” People like that may not vote. So I fear—and especially young people, for some reason they’re not taking this thing se—they just, they’re not like older people who are really into voting and registering and all of this stuff. I just feel that some kind of way we’re gonna have to encourage more young people to step up to the plate, take some lead roles in our campaigns to ensure that everyone go to the polls.

And I fear that, and I hate to say it, but I fear it among Black people. We must go to the polls to elect our president, Barack Obama.

	W:	How confident are you that President Obama will win reelection in 2012?



	V:	I think he will. I think President Barack Obama will win the 2012 election. I really do feel that way because after viewing and listening to Mr. Romney, uh-uh. I don’t think so. When I see him on television he looks wishy-washy. Have you





ever heard that saying before? It’s like he’s fired up and I get this feeling that he’s saying things to please me, but it’s not coming from within. So I think President Barack Obama will win again.

	W:	Do you feel differently from the way you feel about Romney when you hear President Barack Obama say something? Is there something about the way he speaks that speaks to you differently?

	V:	Of course. Because I feel that he’s much—I don’t want to say more intelligent, but verbally he speaks well and I think what he says goes over better than what the way Romney projects. So, yes it’s a big difference. In other words, you believe Obama, but I don’t believe Romney what he’s saying. When Obama speak, I believe him. But I cannot believe a thing Mr. Romney is saying to me. Just like the healthcare plan for example, the Obama Care. I was reading an article earlier and I do believe that they said that the Republicans started that, but now they are objecting to it. What’s with this? So, no I truly think that Obama will win, President Obama will win.

	W:	Can you please share a memorable moment, it can even be a small one, in the way that a specific family member or friend reacted when you first shared the news that Obama’s election victory occurred?

	V:	Well, my children when, I think we were sharing the news with each other, but the telephones were ringing and you could hear the screaming in the background from the kids, the grandkids, everybody. I think that was one time in life when everybody was really, really, happy, even the young people, the kids. They finally had someone that they could look up too. So that was one good thing because I





think that he, President Barack Obama, sets a good example for our young people. I also think that now, finally, they have somebody that they can look up to and they know that they could become the president of the United States one day. So, there’s no holding back because they can’t say, “Oh, no I can’t do this because nobody will ever elect me”. They elected President Barack Obama, why not you? So I think that’s a good thing. But I think the sharing among families was really good that night, and friends, because a lot of people actually had parties at their homes waiting for that final vote. And I think that all of America was just rocking.

	W:	Well, on behalf of the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program, we’d like to thank you for participating in this interview and I’ll just give you final privilege, if there’s anything else you’d like to say to conclude the interview we’ll give you that opportunity and when you finish it will be the end of the interview.

	V:	Well, first of all I’d like to thank you and your staff for inviting me. I’ve interviewed with this program, the Oral History Program before, and I always enjoy doing it. So, Marna, I thank you, and I thank you for the work that you’re doing.

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Lisa Mueller, October 9, 2017



	Audio-edited by:	Samantha Crisanti November 14, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 28, 2019