AAHP 639; Hobbs; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 639 Tameka Hobbs 3-22-2019 Interviewed by Annemarie Anderson on March 22, 2019

56 Pages



Abstract:

Keywords: [African American History; African American Studies; Valdosta State University; Education]



AAHP 639

Interviewee: Tameka Hobbs Interviewer: Annemarie Anderson Date: March 22, 2019



	A:	Okay, today is Friday, March 22nd. This is Annemarie Anderson, recording for the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program again, and I am here with Dr. Tameka Bradley Hobbs. Dr. Hobbs, would you start off and tell us a little bit—well first, would you go ahead and state your name and tell us what you do?

	H:	Okay. My name is Tameka Hobbs. I am currently an associate professor of history at Valdosta State University, where I also coordinate the African American Studies program.

	A:	That’s great! What’s your birthdate for the record? H:	I was born on June 27th in the year of 1975.

	A:	Great. So, let’s start off and talk about your earliest years. Where did you grow up?

	H:	Okay. I was actually born in Lake City, but was raised in Live Oak, Florida. That’s where my mother and her family are from. My mother was born Dorothy Alene Grimmage; she was born to Cleo McDaniel Grimmage and Freeman Grimmage Jr. there. She went away to North Florida Community College, where she met my father, and here I came. My father is a native of Madison County, Greenville specifically. his name is Lawrence DeWitt Bradley. Shortly after I was born, he entered the military. We followed him up to Fort Campbell, Kentucky, where he was stationed. My brother, Lawrence Dewayne Bradley was born there, and then around the age of three or four we moved back to Live Oak. So, aside from those three years, pretty much the entirety of my youth was spent in Live Oak, Florida.

	A:	That’s great. What do you remember about it as a child?





	H:	I remember just a really rich family life. We were a pretty close-knit family, lots of distant uncles and cousins. My mother was one of two children, her brother Johnny Grimmage, was— I think during my early childhood he was living in the area of Largo. We have a lot of family that are in Largo, Clearwater, St.

Petersberg, so there was always this kind of this back-and-forth there. Lots of family members, we spent a lot of time with my grandparents, Cleo and Freeman. My mother ended up taking a job at the telephone company as the operator, so that was shift work for her. My father, during those years, was working at Occidental, which was a mineral company mine, that I think was in Hamilton County? And so with both of them working shift work so much, I spent a lot of time with my grandparents. So, a lot of my childhood memories centered around the time that I spent with them. My grandmother was deaf. She lost her hearing in the process of giving birth to my mother. It was kind of interesting growing up with that element. She read lips, she never learned sign language, so we had to learn how to speak so that she could understand us. She would do things—like, she would need to call us and tell us stuff, but she couldn’t hear when someone picked up the phone. So sometimes you would pick up the phone on a late ring, like the fourth or fifth ring, and she’d be mid-sentence telling you what she needed to tell you. So, she had some interesting, I guess what we call today, hacks, around life as a person without hearing. She was a seamstress, so that was a part of my girlhood as I grew older; learning how to cut patterns, make patterns. Really before that, my first orientation, she was in charge of kind of like my domestic instruction, I guess, as it would be called. Learning how to wash





dishes, learning how to clean; she tried to incentivize it. I guess we were kind of newfangled kids, so she would give us a quarter here or a quarter there for cleaning the bathroom, or carrying out chores. At the time we didn’t have electric dryers, so hanging out clothes on the line was still a big part of what we did.

Shelling peas, destemming greens; it was a lot of that kind of work. They had grape vines, they had a peach tree, they had a fig tree. There was always somebody bringing some crop of something around. So it was a very communal way of being raised in that way. Caring for home, preparing food, she taught me how to iron. The other thing about my grandmother is that she was very exacting and detailed-oriented, and I tended to rush. I still do. I ended up having to redo things often; re-clean the bathroom—[Laughter]—iron clothes again. I had to iron everything: my grandfather’s shirts, I had to iron his handkerchiefs and fold them a very specific way. She even had a very specific way of putting pillows and pillowcases. Now, I realize many years later, as an adult, that a lot of what my grandmother was training me in came from her years as a domestic worker. She worked in the homes of White people, and I think her standard of care and clean was informed by kind of this early regimen. Now, I haven’t confirmed, but I heard she used to work for a Jewish family in Live Oak. I think, as I thought about it later—because the story about the pillowcase, the way she taught me to put on pillowcases, seemed really screwy to me, right? As a young kid. Like, just stuff the pillow in one end and shake it into the pillow case. But, she would have us turn the pillowcase inside out, put your hand in the bottom, grasp the end of the pillow, and then kind of pull the pillow down around. Now, that really came in





handy as I got older and I got down pillows for the first time. Okay, class issue. [Laughter] But I had a really hard time getting the pillowcase on down pillows. But I used my grandmother’s method this time. Like, you know, I’m a thirty-year-old woman, two kids. But, my grandmother’s method that she taught me all those years ago worked on down pillows like a charm. But, why was my grandmother aware of putting the cloth on this type of pillow? Well, we never had those types of pillows, like we always got our stuff from Kmart, it was the polyester stuff. So again, it kind of reaffirmed that she received training or technique, a lot of the things she learned came from other people’s homes, with other people’s material. But, it was a part of my training and my upbringing. As I got older, then it became sewing and actually making garments; I think an apron was probably the first thing I made on my own. Then we began to make more complex garments. And again, she was a stickler for detail. Crooked seams had to be torn out and redone. She was a real jokester too, because I can remember being at the sewing machine and feeling something bite me. I’m scratching my thigh, trying to focus on sewing, and it kept happening until I finally turned around in frustration and it was her! She was taking a little pin, just ever so carefully, and pushing it through my denim just to kind of, I mean—and she just was cracking up, she thought it was hilarious. I can remember once, her trying to my new bike, and falling, and just cracking up and laughing. My grandfather was throwing a fit, because of all the things that could’ve happened. She could’ve hurt herself. But she was just having a grand old time. I remember her sense of daring, and adventure, and humor, along with all those other things that she did. We also





went into her sewing room, because she had a dedicated sewing room in the back of their house on 8th Avenue—I believe it was 8th? 7th Avenue—7th Street.

	A:	And this is in Lake City? H:	In Live Oak.

	A:	Live Oak.



	H:	We were in Live Oak. I also spent a lot of time in the kitchen. Baking cakes was, and still is, my thing. So, she passed down a recipe for a pound cake, and still one of my favorite recipes is red velvet cake. She was renowned for baking tea cakes, which was a southern delicacy. I’ve seen many different versions of them. Most of them have molasses in them. But that was something people would always talk about, my grandmother’s tea cakes, as we got older. She would make these seven-layer jelly cakes with either mint jelly or grape jelly. These things were really important, they were social capital. When I think back on it, it was really a measure of your femininity and your womanhood. How you dressed your family, how you kept your home, and your ability to cook and prepare food. She was not that great of a cook! [Laughter] But when it came to baking, she certainly was outstanding. And that’s something that she passed down to me. So that was my grandmother. My grandfather also worked for Occidental. He was a minister. He had several brothers, I forget the headcount. George, my grandfather, Freeman Grimmage, Charlie Grimmage, Sammy Grimmage, uncle Oscar, Uncle Charlie, there’s Aunt Wita Mae, aunt Willie Mae; so it was a group of them. Many of his brothers were deacons or ministers. It was a very religious family, most of them were in the Baptist church. We all worshipped at Sweet





Hope Missionary Baptist Church in Live Oak, that’s where I was raised. Interestingly enough, even though my grandfather was a minister, it was my grandmother’s father—Cleo’s father—Solomon McDaniel, who was one of the founders of Sweet Hope Baptist Church. I think it was recreated or the structure was built in the 1940s; I’m not sure if it had a reiteration before that. But he still to this day is considered to be one of the founders of that church. Religious life was very central. Where my grandmother was really playful and sometimes mischievous, my grandfather was very serious and very stern, most of the time. He also could be very wicked; all of my Grimmage uncles are just notorious jokesters, that’s one of the things I really remember about all of them. But, he could also be very stern. He drove this little green Toyota truck. That was his work truck, because he had a light blue Impala that was like, the Sunday car.

When he would come from work in the green truck, my brother and I would hear it. Because of course, my grandmother couldn’t hear, we’d be tearing up the place, it was very terrible, we played hide-and-go-seek with my grandmother, and she couldn’t hear us. [Laughter] And we had great fun because we didn’t have to work hard to hide from her. Looking back, it’s quite terrible. So we would be doing our thing, but as soon as we heard my grandfather’s truck turn in the yard, we stopped whatever we were doing and made a beeline to sit on the sofa, hands folded, watching TV like little angels because he ruled the roost. He wanted children to be seen and not heard; we couldn’t make too many trips in and out of the screen door, keep the door closed; we always had to address adults by handle, I don’t care if it was Aunt or Uncle, Miss, Mr., Ms.; we always





had to put a handle on adults. I can literally remember—I mean, he was a very dark-skinned man—his finger in our faces, about, “You say ‘Yes, Sir’ and ‘No, Sir,’ ‘Yes, Ma’am,’ and ‘No, Ma’am.’” I think a lot of that has been lost. I think what I’ve seen, even in some of my own interviews with folks who grew up in the period of Jim Crow, because they were so disrespected, because they were not given those honorific titles in their daily walks in life, and that respect, it was really, really important to them when they came home and when they were in the Black community that those titles had to be on. And I think even today, that persists, as a real difference in culture between Black Americans—Black Southern Americans, particularly—and other groups. That was a big deal for him, and it showed up in other ways. I think he was a really proud man. I think he was an ambitious man. He only finished the fourth grade. He went back and got some other training later, but I can remember when I was in graduate school, and he had gotten sick by that time, I believe, ultimately died of pancreatic cancer as did my grandmother, but this would’ve been about 2002. I told him I was going to work on my doctorate. I was finishing up my master’s, but that my plan was to get my doctorate degree. And I was kind of disappointed because he really didn’t express happiness for me. What he said was—and he looked sad—he said that he wanted to be a doctor himself. It gave me a moment of pause, to really understand the ways in which his life had been limited. I think I understood then that the anger that he brought home to us was probably really redirected from the world that he worked at, in a mining industry for many, many years, and had to train White employees to come through and advance and eventually become his





boss. And after doing that for so many years, there’s a sense of frustration that sets in. So I think that a part of that tension—and he was really short-fused at times—was really a result of a lot of that frustration from the outer world. Now, the other thing that I learned from my grandfather, and it was a conversation sparked by something I learned at college, I came home and asked him about the lynching of Willie James Howard. And that was also a really difficult moment. Because this very commanding, domineering man, when I asked him about this lynching, it just got really quiet, and kind of shrank, and you could just tell he was taking a journey through time in his mind. He told me, he was like, “Yeah baby, I remember that. I remember that there would be times when I would be walking into time and I would encounter a White woman, and I would turn around and come home. Because if we were alone, essentially, she could say anything, and it could cost me my life.” That was a new frontier for us, because we talked about a lot of things—or, we got talked at about a lot of things—but racism and the things that they had experienced in their lives was never front and central. And that probably was one of the first explicit conversations about race that I’d had with my grandfather. But he was a family man. He really doted on my mother.

They had a really special relationship. It was more difficult for my uncle. My uncle Johnny, who is a year younger than my mother, was born with mental deficiencies, shall we say. I understand that the labor was really difficult, I think there was some oxygen deprivation, and so he was hard of hearing, he had developed mental issues. And that was also a source of frustration, I think, for my grandfather, because it happens very frequently now, when I go home, and I get





alone with my uncle, and he almost every time we’re alone will tell me how hard my grandfather was on him. Because he didn’t want to accept that he couldn’t hear. He said, “You know, the teachers tried to tell my dad that I couldn’t hear,” but when he didn’t do well on work, or when he got in trouble for being mischievous, he would just get the beating. There was just a lot of tension in that relationship, and I think a lot of it stemmed from my grandfather’s inability to really deal with my uncle’s disability. It’s still a source of pain in my uncle’s life, it’s a really painful thing to hear. But that’s his truth. It’s an interesting position.

Maybe because I talk, I do engage my uncle, and I do think that’s something that I learned in watching my mother and watching my grandmother. When you have people with disabilities in your family, it just gives you a different orientation. Very often, I think the tendency is in the family just to, because they live with my parents, my mother and my father take care of him and his wife, I think we tend to marginalize those types of people. But I go in, I take the time, I joke with him, I laugh with him. But, anytime we get a little time, he is telling me that story and I think he really wants to bear witness to his story and the way that he was victimized, for lack of a better word. It really is a painful thing to realize. And my uncle is very capable in many ways, worked for years and was able to support himself. Now, probably because he was hard of hearing and had this mental disability, when he began working in the Gold Kist Packing Plant—which was one of the larger employers in that tri-county area between Madison, Suwannee, and Hamilton County—he worked in the ice room. And it’s alleged that someone was trying to play a joke on him. Long story short, this huge block of ice in the ice





house ended up falling on him and pinning him. It crushed his hip, broke his leg, and for the last thirty years, he has been living with all of the outcome. His body’s been disabled since that point, has had several surgeries, was confined to a wheelchair for several years, and he’s a tall guy. The McDaniels are a really tall folks, so my uncle’s gotta be like, 6’3”, 6’4”, heavy guy, and to not have your joints to hold all of that weight has been shifted and caused other joints, his knees, his ankles, to have negative outcomes. But year, he’s really kind of suffered because of that. I think one of the last times I was home, he was giving me some more background on what happened, and the fact that he shouldn’t have been working there. There have been other instances where he’s been taken advantage of because he can’t hear, but he’s very proud of, when he could work, how hard he worked. But, I think that must’ve been very difficult for my mother to have to grow up trying to mediate a lot of that. Two people in the family with significant disabilities, a very angry man, who was there, but who also cared for them. But it was an interesting family dynamic, to say the least. Because I spent so much time with my grandparents, we spent quite a lot of time on the west side of Live Oak, which is where the historically Black neighborhood is. It was on that side of town, when we were riding through on the way to church, because my parents eventually built a Jim Walter home, which was kinda a big Southern kind of construction. When I was five years old, they bought the lot, built the house, but that was on 715 Walker Street. When we would go to my grandparents’ house, or go to Sweet Hope, which were on the west side, we would pass the McCollum home, the home that had been built by Sam and Ruby





McCollum. And it always stood out to me. No one really ever talked about it when I was young, but it was unlike many of the other houses that were around there. Everything else was kind of a one-story, shotgun home, trailers, but you could tell it once been a really beautiful. I think it was a white-yellow house with, it seemed like it had wrought iron on the outside; but it was all grown up. You can even see some of the cars from the 1950s, I think there was either one or two still parked in the yard at that point in time. But that was all on that side of town. There were lots of families and friends. My step-grandmother, Annie Lou McDaniel, lived right next door. So, there ended up being lots of cousins in the area who were playmates. But that was the neighborhood. I attended Suwannee Elementary when I was young. When I was in middle school, I attended Suwannee Middle School, which was the converted buildings of what had been Douglass School, which was a segregated school for African Americans. And so that, too, was situated on the west side. So very often, when I couldn’t go home after school, I would end up walking to my grandparents’ house on that side of town.

	A:	Did they ever mention anything about the history of that school, or was that just something that people sort of knew?

	H:	I honestly don’t think I put two and two together until I left. Like I said, so much of the contours of the racialized life of my immediate family I was just oblivious to. It wasn’t until I was in college, really, that I think I put two and two together and understood that my parents were in that first wave to integrate the high schools. My mother in Suwannee County, my father in Madison County. It would’ve been 1971, so part of what I tell my students today is that I’m the first person in my





family to never have attended segregated schools, because my parents went to segregated schools up until the tenth grade. But the history of Douglass, they may have mentioned it, but I was never able to put two and two together to understand, like, “Oh yeah! This is where they would’ve gone to school.” So a lot of that was lost on us. And I think it’s part of the generational exchange. My theory is that folks from that generation, my parents’ generation, because things were perceived to be getting better, that they didn’t want to burden us with what they felt was emotional or psychic luggage of segregation. And so, they didn’t tell us those stories. They thought, I think the bargain was that if they let our kids in to get this better education, what was perceived as a better education, then we don’t need to worry about the rest of it. But it was such a disservice to us, because I tell you, when I finally did learn about the history of Black folks, on a macro level, and was able to read that down to the micro level of my family and what it meant for them, it was groundbreaking. It explained so much about the conditions of my hometown, the casual things that you observe about the way that people live, and the way the streets are designed, and the way the homes are designed on one side versus the other side, in the Black neighborhoods versus the White neighborhoods. It just put so much into context. I’ve always been better able to understand my grandfather’s anger, because of what I began to understand about his life as a Black man growing up during the period of segregation. So, a lot of it was lost. A lot of that was lost.





	A:	Yeah. Could you tell me a little bit about your church family? You’ve been talking about Sweet Hope. Could you talk about maybe some of the church mothers or elders there, or any significant Sunday school teacher you might have had?

	H:	Oh wow, let’s see. I think when I was coming up Reverend Swain was one of the main ministers; he’s the one that I remember the most. My grandfather would preach periodically. I love my grandfather, I loved when my grandfather preached, because he was no-nonsense. Like, you got a good ten-fifteen minutes, and it was over. [Laughter] So, it was really cool. Although, him being in church, he was, you know, similar to the way he was in the outside. He was just a no-nonsense; like, ushers couldn’t chew gum, no one could have candy, you had to sit and be quiet, if you were talking he would come down out of the pulpit to tap you on your shoulder to tell you that you needed to be quiet. It was quite embarrassing. Most people who talk about my grandfather talk about that component of him. I can remember—this is not quite a church story—but riding with him, coming home, and there would be kids on the street, right? Wanting to play basketball at the basketball court. The basketball court was across from my grandparents’ home. But, this one particular day, I must have been in middle school or high school, probably middle school. But my grandfather was pulling up behind the street on a bunch of the cool guys from middle school, walking in the road, dribbling, having fun, and they didn’t move to the side, because there was no sidewalk. My grandfather stopped the truck, got out, and went on one of his rants about, “Blah blah you hamknockers”—that was his favorite word for people who was getting on his nerves, hamknockers. And “I’ll throw all of you out of Live





Oak for a nickel! And duh-duh-duh-duh-duh, you see my truck?” And I’m just cringing in the back seat, because it was like, all of my crushes from middle school happened to be standing around that day and getting chewed out by my grandfather, who was just acting really crazy that day. So, yeah. That was just his reputation. So, grandfather was there. Like I said, my Uncle George and his wife Juanita were there. The Mills, Deacon Mills, Miss T. Mills was one of the deaconesses there. I could always count on seeing my godmother there, Juanita Tillman, and her husband Pat. She was a lovely woman, who was always really good to me. Just a real stickler about how she dressed. Always really beautiful clothes, and she always had some candy or some treat for me, so it was always nice to be able to go and see her. Let’s see, Ms.—we called her Ms. Chank. Ms. Perkins was one of our long-time members. Ms. Corine Dunbar, who was a first cousin of Willie James Howard, was one of our members. And you can imagine going to church with all these people all this time and then, you know, coming to learn that they have this connection to this really terrible event. But, she too, was one of our church divas, she was always fly. Those were some of the main folks that I remember. A lot of my friends went there, my cousin Amarantha, she was like my running buddy, so it was the two of us. My younger brother Dwayne, her younger brother George, so it was like the pair of us always trying to finagle after church to go spend the night, or stay over at each other’s home. Amarantha’s sisters Terry, and Janice, and Joanna, were there. Singing in the choir was a big deal. So we had, like, choir number one, which was like the original old-school choir. Then we had choir number two, which was like, the young, swinging choir.





I couldn’t sing, so I ended up on the usher board. And Ms. LaFrances Hemingway was over us on the usher board, and gave us our training. We had to have the white gloves, our uniforms usually consisted like a white blouse, and a navy-blue skirt, and you had to have the heels. And learning all of those roles in church were really important. I’ve heard some really kind of terrible stories—not terrible, embarrassing is what I want to say—stories about me in the church from my cousin Janice, who I just talked about, who was teasing me a little while ago. Because I guess they always messed with me for speaking proper, quote- unquote. But she told me that when we first moved back from Kentucky, that I was there, my grandfather was in the pulpit, and as people were kind of transitioning out of Sunday school and into church, that I was just sitting there.

And I yelled at my grandfather, like, “Granddaddy I got on pink panties!” [Laughter] And so she was telling me like, that she would always remember how mortified he was that I yelled it at those three. I’m sure my mother had hooked me up, and I was beautiful, and she told me how she’d coordinated my pink panties probably with my pink dress, and so I was just really proud and wanted to let my granddaddy know that Sunday. I can also remember the oratory of church, right? Your speeches for Christmas and Easter were always really, really big deals. So, again, I was really small, and we were having rehearsal. And I think somebody in rehearsal must have said something about making sure that everyone can hear me to try to get me to raise my voice. But in my five-year-old mind, it meant that after I said my speech in church, that I was supposed to go out and knock on people’s doors and recite my speech to them. This must’ve





been a Christmas program, so the Christmas program comes. It’s my turn to say my speech, I say my speech to applause, I immediately marched down out of the pulpit, make a beeline down the main aisle, out of the doors, and I’m standing on the front steps of the church contemplating which door I’m going to knock on first, before someone comes out and gets me and brings me into the church again.

But, aside from that, I think that the training that we had around delivering speeches, I remember as I got older, our Black History Month projects were to research different significant figures in Black history. I remember one year I was assigned Nikki Giovanni, and that was one of the really kind of seminal moments of my life, as I am a huge fan of her poetry. But it opened up an entire new universe for me, in terms of what I was learning about Black history and culture, because I simply wasn’t getting enough in my public-school education. But the confidence of even doing small things, like being a Sunday school secretary, and having to stand up and give the report, or all these other speeches; I really count that as the beginning of our training on public speaking that I think has served me well over the years. But I count that time there as a really important informative part of my youth, something I can see now as a professor. Generationally, there’s a lot that has been lost, because the training that you receive, and what you learn about ceremony and sacred spaces, and the way that you behave in those spaces, comes in handy because they translate to things like public lectures, and the ability to sit and absorb messages, and to observe the protocol of a space.

And the respect for elders, that was really something that was a very, very big part of my upbringing, and when I finally went to college and started to take





classes in anthropology, it really struck me as I learned about African traditions. Because so much of what I was exposed to in this small town still spoke to those social carryovers, of how we value people, the way we value elders, the communal sharing of food, and always making sure that people were taken care of. People were sick, it was always about making sure they had, going to visit; and it’s something that I don’t think many of my peers who may have grown up in larger cities would have an appreciation for. And I definitely see now that, in the classroom, that it’s not a part of the cultural fabric that many of my students have been exposed to. So, I began to reflect on it now as a really unique experience, being from the small town. I couldn’t wait to get away by the time I was graduating high school, but it’s those lessons that I learned with my grandparents, spending so much time with them, and with the elders in my church, I think have served me in some places. But other places, if I’m going to be totally honest, I think that they have hampered me. I think my training in the Baptist church and the way that meekness and humility were valued, preventing disruption, I think some of those things were not as helpful as I began to navigate in the world. And especially the way that as a woman, I was kind of groomed and taught to be quiet. I’ve really found myself having to work against that very often in my adult life. So it was definitely a mixed bag, in some regards. But I would count it all as a pretty unique experience. I remember lining hymns. A lot of the practices of church seemed really mysterious. Like, no one ever explains to you communion, and why are people shouting and acting crazy? Like, it looks really strange as a child to see people convulsing and yelling at the top of their lungs,





or running around the sanctuary. But specifically lining the hymns, I think I was like in middle school or maybe high school, before I figured out that my Uncle George, who did this frequently, was reading the lines of a song, and that people were following behind him and singing the same lines. I had no idea what was going on. Like I understood the rhythm of it a little bit, but it took me years to be able to put those things together. Good food, too. What’s—it’s not Ms. Corine. I forget the other lady’s name, but she used to make this killer bread pudding, man. Whew! From white bread, you’re supposed to make it from older white bread, and she would mash it and she made this sauce to go with it out of the canned fruit cocktail? And boy, that was good eating! When we ate at church and she brought her bread pudding, that was something that was gonna be a really, really special day. But yeah, so that’s kind of what I remember about the church.

	A:	That’s great. I want to talk a little bit to you about just, the community that— especially the west side of town. Could you maybe start from your grandparents’ house, and describe some of the geography of that, and some of the landmarks? You’ve already talked about the McCollum house, and some other places.

	H:	Yeah. I’m really bad with street names. So, my grandparents I know were on 7th Street, I believe. And they were almost at the end of that neighborhood. Because where their house was situated, just a little bit further west was Ms. Annie Lou’s house, my step-grandmother. And that was like the last home before there were just fields. It’s an industrial park there. But that’s where we used to play, we used to go fly kites, we used to pick blackberries. So that was kind of the end of it.

Right across the street from my grandparents was the basketball court, which





was a communal space. I say “communal space,” I think it was actually owned by our neighbor there. His name was Penny, I can’t remember his last name—and Topsy was her name, I should know. And these will all be nicknames, because that’s just what people called them. [Laughter] But I think Penny and Topsy, actually that may have been their basketball court, and they just allowed people to use it. So that was a really interesting spot. Next to them, was I think Albert Smith. He’s into construction, and so he owned, I think there was a lot with a half- built house, his home. And Teresa Smith, I went to school with her daughter. Just flew out of my head, I can see her face as clear as day. Yeah, so Teresa Smith and Albert Smith. Then there was, I believe it was Henry Smith, who was a legend in our community. He was a very well-respected minister, and he lived on that street. Across the street was Willy Clayton. On that same block closer to my grandparents was Bonnie, [clicks tongue] what is Bonnie’s last name? I went to school with all of them, I can’t recall it. But Mr. Bonnie and Ms. Verna, went to high school with a couple of their kids. There was a big cow field next to my grandfather’s house and behind. What else was around there? Sweet Hope, there was a subdivision that was kind of a little bit further that was more modern, it must’ve been more middle-class Black housing. Probably built in, like, the [19]80s. So, that was an entire neighborhood that was over that way. The woman who used to babysit me, her name was Ms. Cherry. Adeline Cherry? It was funny, because I don’t know, she would keep me and they would say, they told me that her name was Ms. Cherry, I’d’ve always called her Ms. Blueberry. And so that’s kind of our running joke, even today. She knows, we joke with each





other about that. But she lives further down on 7th Avenue as well. There was a corner store that was closer to the school that I think Henry Smith ran. Part of the reason why I have so many cavities now is because of that store, sent by Now and Laters, and the quarter waters and chips, and we used to flood through there after school to get our fix. Nerds were out and hot, that was the hot candy back then. So he was probably one of the only Black business owners there. Closer to my house was the Big B, it was the juke joint. Right across the street. Kind of drove my parents crazy, because they would get rowdy over there. When the crack epidemic hit in the [19]80s, I got to see a lot of that front and center, because a lot of it was playing out right there on Walker Street. We were down the street from African Baptist Church, which dates back to the years immediately after Emancipation. Out of that church, Florida Memorial, the Florida Baptist Institute operated, which was founded there. Very ironic that I ended up being a faculty member there, in its most recent incarnation in South Florida. But, that institution had its roots right there in my hometown, 1879. I never could understand it, because I always wanted to get away from that place. But, in the 1870s, 1880s, Live Oak was just this really important crossroads. River transportation, railroad transportation, midway between Jacksonville and Tallahassee, not far from Georgia. And so, it was one of several colleges.

Edward Waters also was founded in that town in the same era. So that landmark was right on the same street with us. I understand that my great grandfather, Shepard McDaniel; my grandmother Cleo, her mother’s father, owned quite a bit of property—I didn’t learn until a couple years ago—on Walker Street. And that





there was another juke joint that he also owned, and another very large home that he and his sisters lived in. Which kind of makes sense too, because my other cousin, her name escapes my mind right now, but she was my grandmother Cora T’s niece. She lived on the same street that we did. So the fact that we all had property right there, I think, was related to the fact of my ancestors owning property. Shepard Washington also was rumored to own four hundred acres of prime pine land, and that he would not sell. There’s a newspaper clipping that circulates in the family of him kind of standing with his arms crossed in front of some of these pine trees, and they’re notating how much property he had. But he was frequently approached to sell. He didn’t want to sell it, he wanted it for his kids. But after he passed away, they sold it for very little.

And it is now the site of one of the first subdivisions on the outskirts of Live Oak. And it’s really kind of crazy, because our family graveyard is in the middle of the subdivision. It is in between two people’s homes, in their backyard. My ancestors are buried there on the land that he used to own. So there’s a real sense of loss around that, and then also, I’ve talked to people frequently; there are still families that own lots and lots of land, but they trace that ownership back to the period of Emancipation and Reconstruction. More so in Jackson County, where you’re from. They still I think have one of the largest proportions of Black landowners in the state, but much of that comes from the same time period. So yeah, that’s really most of what I can recall about the west end. Walker Avenue was kind of the party district. I can’t really think of any other Black-owned businesses. By the time I came along, that wasn’t really a thing. There were Black-owned funeral





homes—Bennie Thomas. I think Bennie Thomas buried my grandmother. Douglas Udell, who’s still there doing well. He ended up serving on the county commission, our city commission for a while. Who was the other? Bennie Thomas, I just called his name the other day. There was another funeral director who was very prominent there. He actually was the one who handled the body of Willie James Howard, I came to learn. But he was very secretive about that, too. But he was very influential in the town. Aside from the west end, there was also the east end, which was another Black community. I didn’t spend a whole lot of time over there. But it was between those two areas, and then just out on the outskirts where most of the Black population existed. It was a part of our consciousness coming up that there were areas where the White folks lived.

White folks lived on Suwannee Street. When we got older, sometimes we would beg, and beg, and beg, and my mother would take us to Suwannee Street to trick-or-treat. And so different. I mean, there were sidewalks, the homes just looked different, and it was one of those things, like I said, when I learned to piece together how things came to be the way they were economically, Suwannee Street makes a lot of sense in that context. Because it just wasn’t a place where Blacks were supposed to be so much. Even Walker, there’s a portion of it that was near the hospital at the time. It’s since been demolished and their homes there. But the part of Walker between Highway 90 and—now it’s a roundabout—that was kind of the Black area, and everything kind of headed toward the elementary school was more of a White area. So, I was cognizant of some racial boundaries that existed on the landscape as I was growing up there





in the [19]80s and [19]90s. Those things were still unspoken, but very much in place. As I got older, there were places I just knew not to venture. I did not go into the Dixie Grill, or the Brown Lantern until I was an adult and had finished college, because those were unspoken but understood to be White spaces still. And I still kind of get creeped out when I go to Dixie Grill. [Laughter] Sometimes I go if my mother just wants to go, but not one of my favorite places to dine, just because of the association that I have with it.

	A:	Could you talk a little bit about that? What do you mean by association?



	H:	It’s the unspoken place, you know, and as I said that I was kind of thinking, like, “Who told you that? Who told you that you couldn’t go to Dixie Grill?” And I don’t think that anyone ever explicitly said, “You can’t go there.” But the fact that it was like never an option. When we did go out to eat, it was never, “Hey, why don’t we go to this place?” You just, over time, over the years, realize that that is something that’s just out of reach for you, that that is not a place that we go, or that we are welcome necessarily. And then, something about the name Dixie.

Like, I never quite put it together; no one explains these things to you, but that also had just a certain connotation to it—even if I didn’t know what it was—that said, “This is not a place for you.” And yeah, so those things were quite real.

Unspoken, it’s amazing, not really spoken, but I definitely got the message.



	A:	Did you ever hear stories from any elders of talk of integration of those spaces?



	H:	No. No. My mother, I can vaguely remember her, years later, talking about an attempt to try to integrate places downtown. It didn’t seem like it resulted in a whole lot of confrontation, and it probably, the way things worked in my book, it





was probably just so late in the period that folks were just like, “Okay this is coming, let’s not even worry about it.” But there were a few rumblings, and I think that would have been after the assassination of King, that there was a little bit of that in that time period. But that was the only time that I can remember hearing my mother talking about some of that. But if I remember correctly, it was probably when I was interviewing her. I think I have an interview of her somewhere, and she was telling me these stories, but it was not a part of what we understood about the evolution of Black life, or our family’s lives, in that town. I should mention that my father’s father, DeWitt, owned a juke joint in Madison County. [Laughter] I was intrigued to learn that. And they did pretty well. My dad talked about this really cool car that he had, and how he cried when he wrecked it because it was just so cool. So that was a different element on his side. So there was an entrepreneurial element in that side of the family. By the time I’d come along, they’d been out of the business for a little while, but that is part of what they did. How they supported themselves, at least at one point.

	A:	Were there any local musicians that you knew of, either that played at the juke joint that was across the street from you on Walker Street, or did your grandfather ever talk about local musicians to Florida or the South who would play?

	H:	No. I mean the big beat was, by the time, it was like, you know, disco, [19]80s music, by the time we came along. I never talked to my grandfather about the juke joint. Those all came secondhand after he passed away, so I never really had a chance to talk about that with him directly. Gospel music was really huge in





the church. There were a couple of quartets that were very popular. I can’t remember, Mr. Lavell’s last name, but I think he and several of his brothers had a quartet, and you would want to be in the church if they were there. Some girls I went to high school, the Fords, their mother was Gloria Ford; she played the piano. But there were three of them, and they were quite renowned for their ability to sing. And so they would kind of make their rounds from church to church. So, a gospel revival, what you had, you know, series of people coming through were, that was kind of high entertainment for us. We would be in church, and I can remember several of those occasions where there’s not enough seating;they’re bringing folding chairs in to come. I also grew up with Watch Night services. Somebody brought that up the other day. On [December] 31st, you go to church, and you’d be there all night to watch the new year come in. Again, no one explained that to us, but this is related to the historic observation of the Emancipation Proclamation in 1863. But it was kind of cool for us, because we were up past our bedtime, we got breakfast at church, like, midnight, 1:00 in the morning. So it was kind of a cool and different thing. But it really tied back to this really long history of religious observations of Emancipation. Similarly, we grew up with May Day. One day in May, for much of my upbringing, there would be this big fair that would take place at Douglass Middle School—again, the site of the old Black school—where it’d be members of the African American community, festivities, barbecues, games, three-legged-races. I can remember I never understood that in the context of a May 20th Emancipation celebration until I was in college and working at the Riley house, and learned about this history.





So there was a lot that we were exposed to that were culturally specific celebrations that just were never explicitly named in a way that we understood what they were.

	A:	Definitely. Well, I’ve taken up some of your time, so let’s get to that. Let’s get to your college experience—I know we’re kind of jumping. Is there anything you want to talk about still related to your early life, and your community?

	H:	There are a couple of things that I will speak about that I think are important that deal with what I began to experience in high school, and I count as part of my racial awakening. There was an incident with the yearbook. I worked on the yearbook team, my good friend Joanna worked on the yearbook team, my good friend Takia worked on the yearbook, and we worked really hard. Like, we’d go out during school days selling ads, working on layout; we were really hands-on with it. And the way that those things worked is that whoever was the assistant editor would rise to be the editor the next year, and that would have been me.

And I remember that the advisor, it was a young White teacher—who attended Melody Christian Church; I don’t know why I remember that, but it has become a part of that memory—she selected a younger student, who may have been a freshman or sophomore—I was like a junior, rising senior—and it came out that he was going to be the next editor, that I had been overlooked for that post. Now I remember being really, really frustrated, and really, really angry, especially given as I commiserated with some of my friends about all the work that we had done to pull that publication together and make it a success. And I didn’t know quite what to do with that. And again, you know it’s wrong, it seems like a





conspiracy, but you really don’t have the language for it. It felt racial to me, and that was weird, because I hadn’t been used to necessarily pinpointing those types of things. I didn’t have much of a understanding of my racial identity, or racism and how it worked at that point. Fast forward to our senior year, and I was a part of these Black nerds that were in school. There were a group of four or five of us who were in honors classes, we were females, and we worked hard. We supported each other, we studied together, and by the time we got to our senior year, there were some expectation that Tameka Fillmore, who worked always really hard, had a very high GPA, would more than likely be the valedictorian.

And it turned out that that was the case because at the time, WC-TV, which was the regional news, they did profiles on all the valedictorians and salutatorians for each area high school. So Joanna Ross, who was named as salutatorian, part of our group; Tameka Fillmore was named as valedictorian. They had gone, they had filmed, and their profiles were prepared to go on. But all of the sudde,n there began to be this whispering, and there were rumors of a change, and the next thing we knew that there was an announcement that there would be two sets of valedictorians and salutatorians. That Lee Drane would be named as co- valedictorian, and Amber—I forget Amber’s last name, but Amber would be added as salutatorian. It was complete bullshit. Because they were good students, but they were not on the level—I mean, Tameka did nothing else but go to church and study. I can remember the one time that she got a B in drama our freshman year, because she cried and we had to talk her down. That was the only B she got in high school. Like, I remember that. So, she worked really hard,





as did Joanna. Joanna had lost her father and mother at a young age, was a very hard worker, very smart. What I knew of these other girls; I mean, there were stories about them getting drunk on the weekends. They just were not really the same caliber of student that our friends were. So, we were really blindsided. And of course, a slight to one of us was a slight to all of us. It seemed really unfair and explicitly, explicitly racial. And I think the other complicating part of that was that Takiya Gross was our class president, African American woman. She was also our homecoming queen. So here you have, out of this class of 1993, these academic and social superstars who were taking the lead, and folks apparently just really had a problem with that. I can remember seeing our teachers kind of huddled in the office; it seemed really suspicious. Lee’s mother, I think, worked as a counselor inside the high school. I remember feeling a real sense of betrayal that these were people that I thought were fair, and that cared about us, and it just seemed like this just really, really dirty trick was being played, and that these White teachers that I had been taught to respect were conspiring against my friends. And once word got out, there was a protest that took place. The Black students, I remember, came together. I don’t know where we were, but I think we ended up being in the gym. We walked out, and the way our school was set up at the time, there was a big kind of—the office was in the middle, and there were corridors that made a square all the way around. And I remember watching our, other members of the school, Black members of the school marching around that square saying, “No justice, no peace.” And I was really proud in that moment. [Laughter] Because these were folks that I didn’t





really think cared about us, right? You’re the nerdy girls, nobody really pays attention to you necessarily. But for them to get upset about this issue, I thought just really spoke to validate how wrong it was. Fast forward from that, there were rumors that the Klan was going to come to our graduation. When there was a meeting about the graduation program for the seniors, I remember that several of us showed up. Several of my Black friends, my cousin Freddy; we came, and we were the only ones that were there. And the class advisor canceled the meeting, and said that they would have another meeting when more people could come.

So it was a complete invalidation of our presence and our willingness to be on program. But again, it was just one thing after the other that was raising the tension. Something that actually was triggered for me today, I had ambitions to attend the University of Florida. I wanted at the time, coming out of high school, I was thinking about a nursing program. I’d come to a campus visit here, had a great party, we stayed in the dorms, had an awesome party! I was like, “Yes, this is the coolest school!” But I remember on the news, I think it might’ve been some of the anti-affirmative action protests that were being broadcast on the news, and I just remember seeing really angry White male college students yelling. And the newscaster talking about the context of why they were so upset, and for the number of things that had been happening to me out of high school, I was just like, “I can’t—that’s not a welcoming place for me, I don’t want to do that, especially after what I’m seeing in my own high school.” So that was a real defining moment for me, as I said, just all of these different racial issues that kept coming up. So when Florida A&M was put on my radar screen, and I had a





chance to go and visit, the rest was kind of just history. My national merit scores were high enough to put me on the radar for several schools, and at that time, Frederick Humphreys was the president of FAM, was just madcat recruiting national merit scholars to come to his school. So I remember going to a communion, they would have all these communions around the state, and I think the one we went to was in Tampa. And I remember being called up on stage and him giving me a card that was a four year scholarship to FAM. Tuition paid, books paid, room and board paid. So, that kind of sealed the deal. Florida A&M was going to be my school choice.

	A:	That’s great. So you were a national merit scholar? H:	Mmhm, mmhm, mmhm.

	A:	That’s great. And so, tell me a little bit about going to FAMU—because it’s in Tallahassee, it’s not that far from Live Oak. What was your impression of it that first year?

	H:	I can remember going on the, what do you call—? The orientation. And my mother came with me, and it was kind of difficult to navigate these large buildings, and figure out the right space, when you don‘t really know where everything is. And it was over the summer, and of course—[Laughter]—as always, in Tallahassee, things could be fine, but in the middle of the day, there’s gonna be this huge rainstorm that breaks out. And that happens to us. And we were on campus near the Quad, and to get out of the rain, we ran to the front steps of Lee Hall. And I can remember standing with my back against the front doors of Lee Hall, and just looking out across the Quad, at Coleman library





across, and I just fell in love with the place. I thought it was most beautiful thing I’d ever seen, and that really vividly stands out in my mind. It really felt like that was the place for me to be. I remember moving into the dorms, that was a really fun experience. I lived in Diamond 210; those dorms are being torn down, probably have been torn down now for new construction. So, those buildings don’t even exist anymore. But it was just a really exciting experience. My roommate, Teresa Crawford, was from Washington, D.C. Meeting her, meeting so many other girls; a lot of them were from Atlanta, Georgia. Gia, Giovanni Washington, was from L.A. There was just all these people from all over the place, and I can remember as a small town girl, kind of used to being the top of my class for where I was, being really, really intimidated by all of these people from these big towns. And they were so sophisticated, and urbane, and they spoke differently, and I was worried that I sounded country when I talk. So, it was a period of transition, I started off in the School of Business and Industry, Sybil Mobley’s famed school. And we knew, before I got to campus, that it was going to be very regimented. Because once you were accepted into the School of Business, they sent you a letter in the mail over the summer to let you know what the dress code was going to be. You can have a blue suit, a grey suit, a black suit; you needed to have pantyhose as a young woman; there were earrings that had to be no more than this diameter; heels no more this high. So they were already signaling that this was going to be a little bit of a bourgeois factory going in. When they used that term at the time, it just sounded like, you know, “Yeah, okay.” So that was kind of thrilling. I had the privilege of having Dr. Herbert





Alexander, who was—I believe—the pastor of Bethel AME. Didn’t know that at the time, but he was a bit of a legend, and was just a real—he paired being caring and demanding. I think I was really, really intimidated, I was just so nervous about so much. So much work that you’re trying to manage. He gave us an assignment known as the “nothing book”: it was an empty journal. And we had several assignments. We had to track every moment of our day for two weeks, every dollar that we spent; but for that same period of time, every day we had to get three signatures in our book. One had to be, I think, from a student—maybe two from students, but one from a faculty member or administrator. And in order to get that signature, you had to walk up to them, extend your hand, say, “Hi, my name is Tameka Bradley from Live Oak. I’m a student in the School of Business and Industry, and would you sign my nothing book?” So as a person who was— you know, I may have been a little outgoing in high school, but definitely had retreated into myself? That was like a huge thing to have to do. But, you understand why, to kind of draw you out of your shell, get you used to giving a real good handshake, making eye contact, and being able to introduce yourself to anyone. So, that was a big part of what we had to do. We had to have a subscription to the Wall Street Journal, because we had to be prepared to come to class every day, and he could talk about anything that was in that paper.

Interestingly enough, that was also something that raised my racial consciousness. Because I remember, probably the fall of [19]93, there was an article by Charles Bell of the Bell Curve, that it had—the title of the article was something about ‘the Coming of the American Underclass,’ and it was the most





racist thing I had ever read. I remember just reading it over and over again, and underlining it, and he was basically issuing a warning to White America that some of the negative behaviors, in terms of babies out of wedlock, having children out of wedlock, and some of these other things that came as a part of that, were becoming more endemic in the White community; and if they weren’t careful, that they would now be the new underclass. Like, I’ve never seen anything like that. It just really stirred me up. I didn’t know that people in the world thought that way, much less that it would be confirmed in print by the Wall Street Journal. So, those were really interesting things, but even though the “nothing book” was trying to draw us out, I really was withdrawing. So much so that by the time I did start speaking and making friends, probably by the spring semester, my classmates said like, “Hey, we didn’t think you could talk at all! Because you just never would say anything.” But I was just really having a bit of crisis of confidence, I think, that first year in trying to navigate it all. My friend Takia had gone to FSU, so she was a little bit away. I did have a car, so that kind of made things a little bit easier. My friend Joanna had come down, she did come to the University of Florida, so she was here. My other friend Monica was at Tallahassee Community College. So, my core group of friends were kind of spread out, and I was starting to make new friends. But, it was also that first year that I took my first African American history class. And I have to say, it coincided with my—[Laughter]—my falling out of love with the School of Business and Industry, and just realizing after reading a book called The Ropes to Skip and the Ropes to Know that was—the essential message, if I were to put it in a nutshell,





was that you can be who you are after 5:00, but from nine to five, you need to abide by these certain rules and dictates. And I knew, even as a young person then, that I would not be able to live by that code. And so, I was looking for another home. But had taken that class, and taken another class with Kyle Eidahl on European history, and I really liked it. I think I also had a class with Barbara Cotton, who was the only African American woman in the history department— full-time. Dr. Dawson taught history, but she was based in the Black archives. So, I think by the spring of that year, I decided to go ahead and change my major.

And I think it may have been sometime—the summer of [19]94, probably—that I had a class with Theodore Hemingway. And it was in that class that we were dealing with issues of Reconstruction, and he was talking about lynching. And I remember he turned to me and said, “Ms. Bradley, I bet you don’t know that they lynched a boy in Live Oak.” And I was incredulous. Incredulous. Surely, if something that terrible would’ve happened, I would’ve known about it. So the next time I went home, I asked my grandfather, and that’s when we had that conversation. And so I was able to come back to Dr. Hemingway and report that. And began, because he was interested in that history, to send me back, when I would go back, and ask me to sit down with some of the elders in the community, and ask them what they remembered about the Willie James Howard story. And little did I know that he was beginning to train me as an oral historian. At the same time as I began to change my major—I don’t know how I ended up, somebody sent me over there—probably Dr. Cotton, if I had to narrow it down.

But she sent me to go see James Eaton. He was the founding director of the





Black Archives Research Center and Museum, which was in the old Carnegie library building on our campus. And next thing I know, I was working as a student worker there. And I just fell in love. I loved everything about the exhibitions. He had just all this really eclectic collection of any and everything to do with the Black experience, from the Black military; Blacks in medicine; all this African sculpture and tapestry; animal skins from the continent of Africa; he had this Klan robe on a mannequin that he kept there; all this racist memorabilia, those caricatures; just stuff that told the story. And I just remember being intrigued. So, my interest in public history and museums specifically—museums and oral history—was born kind of in that universe at FAMU. And so, I remember working on a oral history project that Mr. Eaton assigned me to on Frenchtown, so I interviewed several people from that community. Actually, I was living there by then. I moved in with my—[clicks tongue]—husband. Baby? Yeah? Yeah, I think it was sometime in there because that’s how I met Ms. Robinson, Inez Robinson; Aquilina Howell, who’s a big name there. But I just began working on these interesting projects. I remember when Dr. Dawson was cataloging the collections of Florida Normal and Industrial College out of St. Augustine. Mr. Eaton had gone and done a dumpster dive and saved those papers and brought them back, and so, watching her do her thing. I loved being in that space. It was just really, really fantastic and special, and has driven everything I’ve done since then. Because, specifically going back to the story of Willie James Howard, by the time—fast forward a few years later, that I decide to go to graduate school to study history as I’m thinking what I’m going to write about, I decide that I want to pick up on





that lynching and the others that I had learned about that had taken place in that decade. So, that kind of set a course for me, all because of that education. And it was just a rich environment. I learned how to be a proud Black woman. I learned what it meant to be Black in America. I understood so much more about my ancestors and my immediate family members. I learned so much about life. I can remember some of the keynote speakers we had come through: Angela Davis came to our campus; Sonia Sanchez led a protest march from Tucker Hall all the way down to the President’s House. You know, it was just quite remarkable. I remember Nathan and Julia Hare. Nathan Hare was supposed to be the first director of the first Black studies program that was developed at San Francisco State University. As the case turned out, he didn’t get the appointment, but he was of course renowned as a Black psychologist by that period in time. I remember he and his wife coming in and talking about male-female relationships, and putting things on my radar that I had no idea about. That was really phenomenal. We had an amazing Black psychology faculty on the campus; I came in contact with Dana and Sharon Dennard, who were just wonderful, wonderful folks who help us to understand the way that anti-Blackness can live in your mind if you’re not careful, and about all of the messages that we are sent daily in the media that denigrate us, or make us feel less-than. It turned on a lot of switches for me. I mean, I stopped processing my hair, I went natural during these years; I became a vegetarian; I hung out with people who practiced traditional African religions; we had all these house parties. Very reminiscent of kind of—we were just like, fake Black Arts Movement people. Some of that same





energy from the 1960s and [19]70s that had boiled over. When I met the man who would become my husband, he was running with Larry Tate, who was a very interesting, controversial figure on FAMU’s campus at the time. They ran an underground magazine that I actually had seen for the first time when I was in high school. It was called Thoughts Magazine, and they routinely called out, made fun of, the administration. They were just complete rabble-rousers. And by the time I got there in like, [19]94, [19]95, Larry Tate was running for SGA president, and had run. And so here you have this guy who is anti-establishment, who is gunning for the administration, now the main representative of the student body on the campus. And so, it was just really fraught with friction. The reason why Sonia Sanchez led that march to the president’s house was because Larry was trying to make it to her event, and was apprehended by campus police.

There was some altercation about him parking; they ended up arresting him, and the word got back to us, and to her. And she was outraged about that, because she knew a little bit about him. And she was also outraged that no one from the administration was there to meet her. And you know, she’s a woman of a certain importance. And so she led us all right down, come out of Tucker Hall, walk down, walk down past Lee Hall, walk down past the Foote-Hilyer administration building, and the president’s house was right there at the bottom. And so here, there are hundreds of us standing outside the president’s house, knocking. This little, little, short woman, with all this hair, who was out there. It was a really exciting time to be there, and a period of awakening, a period of consciousness, and there’s so much of the way that I live today that can be traced back to what I





learned during that period in time. So I’m eternally grateful for my decision to go there. All the people that I met, and the way that they poured into me, directly or indirectly; there were a lot of people who just supported me, but there was just something about seeing all these beautiful, brilliant Black folk that was just really exciting. Really exciting for me.

	A:	That sounds like a really wonderful intellectual space.



	H:	Mmhm. It definitely was, it definitely was. And it was a really beautiful cultural space. Weird, I get off on the ceremonies. I love convocation. And the band, and the keynote speakers, and just the dance, and the set on Fridays. There was just so much that was a part of campus life. And being from Live Oak, too, I think. [Laughter] Because now, the kids from Chicago and L.A., and New York, and D.C., were just like, “Y’all a bunch of bammas.” Teresa my roommate used to call me a bamma all the time, and it was my goal not to be a bamma. But they would also criticize us for being slow, this town was so slow, but for me, it was really exciting. I had older cousins who around. We would hop campuses, go to parties, and we discovered house parties. There were fraternity parties, panty raids— when we could do that, that’s probably like a #MeToo claim now, but it was— because we didn’t have co-ed dorms. Many HBCUs still don’t. So every now and then, the guys would come over and just rampage through the girls’ dorms. And so, that was an event! [Laughter] It was a lot of fun. So, but yeah, it was good, it was good years.

	A:	That’s good. And so you graduated with a degree in history from FAMU?





	H:	Yes. I graduated in December 1996 with a major in history and a minor in anthropology. But also, my son was born in March of [19]96, and I’d gotten married in February of 1996. I met my husband, William Ashanti Hobbs, at FAMU. And he was a bit of a mystery. When I arrived, of course he was associated with Larry, he was associated with Thoughts, and he’d taken a year off and written a novel, which was like “Ooh! And self-publishes.” He was a published author, so there was just all this energy around him. And it was funny because I would be hanging out with these folks, kind of these vegetarian, African people, and we’d be having these house parties. But it wasn’t until I cut my hair—you know, I had relaxed hair, but I’d gone to the barber and cut it all off—still kind of getting used to the shape of my head. So I had on a baseball cap when I went to this one party. And somebody pulled the cap off while we were there, and everybody made a big deal that I transitioned my hair, and I think that’s the first time that he and I actually talked. He was growing his hair out because he wanted to start dreadlocks, and he asked me if I would start his locks. Now I did not know the first thing about doing it, but all I know was that this really cute guy wanted to put his head in my lap and let me do his hair for several hours at a time. And so, that’s how our relationship got started. It was really fast and furious, but we were, like I said, kind of running in the same circles. But I think in the same way, he was also a student of Ted Hemingway. Ted Hemingway also had a really big influence on him as well. So we found a lot of kinship in this exploration and discovery period that we were going through. And that became a part of our community, because there were many of us who





became young parents and young married couples that were finishing. We would link up; we had a married people’s club that we started, and it was important for us. I think that was a really valuable thing we did for each other, because our lifestyles were so different from our parents. Like, we really weren’t going to church, we were really questioning the role of organized religion for Black people. Some of my friends during this period began to convert to, or to be—I forget the term I’m looking for, but they began to take on and become devotees of traditional African religions, whether it’s Yoruba, or Ifá. We were wearing African clothing; we were vegetarian—which, you know, that’s a lot to take. Cutting my hair, not wearing relaxed hair anymore; my mother didn’t know what happened to me, frankly. So that bond that we created, we would get together I think every other week at someone’s home. We would prepare a meal. Usually that meant the women in the room cooking, the men kind of having their power of keeping the kids out of the way. We would come together and eat, have a discussion over some topic, and we would try to end with a slow dance. We would slow drag. [Laughter] Together as couples, and it would close out by each couple, each person, taking a moment to say something positive about their partner. It was kind of spectacular for us, as twenty-somethings, trying to figure all this out and make a community that was our own. That had a pretty good run. I’d have to say that Dana and Sharon Dennard were also always there. They had a bookstore.

What was the name of the bookstore? I think it was the Arquette Center, is where they were operating. They had a store that sold African-themed books on history, psychology, literature. They sold oils; pretty much anything that you





needed. And it was a Black business, and so that became kind of a central hub of what we were doing. They eventually opened a restaurant, they eventually opened a school that our son attended for many years, it was an Afro-centered school. I was president of PTA, my ex-husband was president of the PTA. All that was really a center of our existence, and as were going through graduate school. And then I took my first teaching job as I was ABD in 2003 back at FAM, and I really remember liking my life. There were African dance classes that would take place in the bookstore on Saturday. So, that space at 812 Macomb Street, which was Nefetari’s, today they have a new restaurant that they’re running with their children. I have so many memories of that place. It was their counseling office, it was a bookstore, it was a restaurant, it was the school; now it’s the restaurant again. But I really look at the two of them. They were very important role models for so many of us who came through FAM during those several decades. I can only speak to my time, but Dana and Sharon’s time preceded mine, and they were there for many years afterwards. It’s hard to tell the story of kind of that

Afro-centered community in Tallahassee without talking about them, or talking about Na’im Akbar, who was a famous Black psychologist at FSU. Kobi Kambon, who recently passed away; Huberta Lowman Jackson; several of them are presidents of the Association of Black Psychologists. I have found, I mean, at the other campuses that I’ve been to, I always like—. [Laughter] If there’s not a strong Black psychology impulse on that campus, I’m just like, “You’re doing it wrong.” Like, we gotta have this. It was so really, I think, fundamental to our understanding of our condition in this country to be able to really explore the way





that being an African in a majority White culture, the way that that works for you, and the way that does for you. And being able to give voice, then, to an alternate interpretation of your environment. Those two things, history and psychology, are right there together. And so, yeah. It was quite impactful.

	A:	Sounds like it. Well what’s, to clarify, what’s the name of the bookstore that they ran?

	H:	I can’t remember. Because the building was the Arquette Center, and it housed their counseling offices at one point in time. The bookstore was on South Adams, near campus in a strip mall. That’s actually where they started before they bought the property on Macomb Street. But I couldn’t tell you right now the name of it. It really completely blows my mind. But they were there for a number of years.

	A:	That’s great. And so you mentioned how you moved into Frenchtown, and you’ve talked about this really rich cultural and intellectual space, community that you joined, and that you helped form. But could you talk a little but about how Frenchtown, as a historically Black community in the center of Tallahassee, how did you become a part of that?

	H:	Yeah, well, because when I got married, that’s where my boyfriend-turned- husband was living. He was renting a home from Inez Robinson, and that family built that home in the 1890s, and they converted it to a duplex. And so he had been renting a room with several roommates, but then after we got together, we decided just to rent the entire thing. So, I was just going to live with my boyfriend. I’d heard about Frenchtown, but I really didn’t know much about it. But of course,





the true history is that this property has a link to the Marquis de Lafayette, who was given a huge land grant in Florida, in recognition of the role that he played in the American Revolution. He had a vision; he was an abolitionist, and wanted to prove that in America you didn’t need enslaved labor in order to have profitable agricultural operations. And so he brought in, I think it was a group of Frenchmen, or folks from other European countries, and tried some plantation agriculture with grapes, and olives, and all the stuff that would not work in north Florida. Ultimately abandoned the effort, but after Emancipation, that land and that area became a place where these newly-emancipated Black people settled in, and it became known as Frenchtown. So, the French was in reference to the French general. But had existed there, and I think many urban neighborhoods had gone through this transition during the period of segregation. It was where the Black business district had been operating. There was a movie theater run by Ms. Yellowhair that was right there on—I forget the name of the street that runs through the community. But right there on the main strip. There were restaurants, and barber shops, and funeral homes; you know, pretty much everything you needed to be a self-sustained, self-contained community. But like many, again, urban areas after integration, and the Black upper class leaves after the crack crisis comes through, it was really decimated. It was actually more of a decimated Frenchtown that we moved into. I remember that there was a club, a juke joint across the street, and they would be out there fighting. We’d be sit in the windows some nights. My roommate from college would come over, and we’d just sit home and watch the people have drunken fights. [Laughter] There were





hookers; I had a subscription to the local paper, and if I didn’t get outside quick enough to get my paper, one of these streetwalkers would get it coming home. Yeah, I remember going to get my paper one morning, and there was this woman in like, thigh-high leather boots, and her patent leather outfit, strolling home after an evening of work. There were bullets still in the frame of the wood outside of the house. So, it was kind of rough, but we decided that we wanted to buy a house. I decided that I wanted us to buy a house. But I liked the neighborhood.

Again, my pro-Black ethos is that we needed to be a part of the community, so we ended up going though the city of Tallahassee’s INFIL program. They had a program that if you agreed to buy and build a home in one of these empty lots that existed in the community, that they would give you the land for free. And you know, you’d get some special considerations on your home loan. We decided to do that, and it was all kind of packaged around this idea that they were really trying to work with the neighborhoods and clean it up, and so, yeah. I’m thinking that we’re gonna be a part of what’s happening. Now, at the same time, we were on Carolina Street; so right across the main street there—I think it’s Macomb Street, I that was also Macomb Street that ran through there—there was a new development of apartments that was going in. Because of course all of this is adjacent to FSU. So all that was happening near the corner of Macomb and Carolina. The house that we were buying was on the other side of the other main street, on Dunn Street. And so what I began to see is that there was a very heavy police presence: that there would be cops on cars, cops on bikes, cops on foot, for week after week after week, after these new apartments went up. And it was





very clear that, “Hey, the nice White FSU college students are coming here. You can’t be out here drinking and smoking and doing whatever you’re doing anymore.” So my expectation as a new homeowner over on Dunn Street is that that same type of neighborhood cleanup was going to be enforced on our street, and it never was. All the police did was set up a new boundary beyond which they would not tolerate that type of behavior, and unfortunately for us, we moved from the side that was being cleaned up to the side where they would allow it to happen. And so the years that we spent there after the house was finished in 1999, it was not unusual at all for me to try to turn into Dunn Street off of Old Bainbridge, and run into three to four people who were high on crack, who were looking for their dealer to come through. It taught me a real lesson about the realities of whose property matters, and whose doesn’t. It taught me about the fact that we don’t really have a commitment to eradicating drugs, that drugs are tolerated in certain places, I mean all the things that we really know and understand as a result of Michelle Alexander and New Jim Crow, about the choices of police and police enforcement, and the enforcement of drug laws. I learned a real hard lesson. I have to say I was quite naïve, looking back, and expecting that it would be different. But really, seen from another direction, it was quite strategic. Because folks like us became the first wave of gentrification, because that neighborhood bears little to no resemblance of the historic Black neighborhood that it once was. And yeah, that’s the way that the economic cookie crumbles.

	A:	That’s rough.





	H:	Mmhm.



	A:	Could you tell me a little bit about going to school at FSU, and your decision to do that?

	H:	Well, because we had a family, FSU was always there. And my ex-husband received a McKnight doctoral fellowship in, I believe, 1998. And so, it’s a wonderful program that is designed to help to fund African Americans seeking their doctoral degrees in underrepresented areas. And so he received one for English, and decided to go to FSU. And the next year, I applied and received one to study history. And so really, it was more of an issue of geography and convenience for us. And the home that we picked out kind of worked, because the parking was such that it was much easier for me to walk from my home on Dunn Street to Strozier Library to Bellamy for my classes. So, we did it together. My in-laws lived in Tallahassee, my grandmother-in-law Viola Hobbs was just absolutely instrumental in helping us with childcare. Our youngest son, Ashanti, was around three when we started going to graduate school. On the nights that we both had class at the same time, she would be the one to take care of the kid. And we wouldn’t have been able to finish graduate school if it had not have been for the care and support of our family. If she wasn’t available, my ex-husband had extended family, the Crowells and the Hobbs. Some of the other cousins would watch the kid. And they really loved him and took care of him, and we had lots of friends too. So we had a really good network that made it possible for us to be able to pursue our academic goals, along with the funding. Even though we still ended up working a little bit to make ends meet out of all of that. I will say





too, it was nice to have kind of the extended family there. Viola cooked dinner every Sunday after church, and so we would always go to her place—whether we were unchurched or not—and get a plate. And get to sit with, Wilbert Hobbs was there, his wife. I can see her face, her name escapes me—oh! That’s terrible. But uncle Wilbert and his wife, Aunt Barbara, who’s an attorney, she’s now a judge there, she’d be there. Grandpa Bill, who ran a janitorial business; cousins; sometimes extended family. So, that was the family that I married into, and that became kind of a nucleus of what we did. Not to say that I didn’t have a lot of mommy guilt. It was very difficult to think about what I might’ve been depriving my son of, because I was really trying to get through graduate school. But I can remember when he was nine, he got on this tear that he wanted to use my computer every morning before he went to Sakkara. Sakkara Youth Institute was the school that the Dennards opened, and I’d have to take him out to Paul Russell Road every morning. But before we got on the road, he’d want to sit and work on my computer. And it’s so funny, I was just asking him what we was doing, and he was like, “Well, I’m working on my dissertation now, so that by the time I’m your age, I won’t have to be in here like y’all are working.” [Laughter] So, I still have that document somewhere as, Ashanti’s young PhD is what we call it. So yeah, I mean, as bad as I felt about that, I think there was some positive role modeling going on about him watching what were attempting to do with all of the work. But, I had a great time. I felt really supported while I was there. Maxine Jones was my major professor, and still remains a friend and mentor. I had the privilege of studying with Joe Richardson, who is the scholar of Reconstruction in





Florida, and such a graceful man. Wow. He was always just a—I hate using words like that, but a gentleman and a scholar. He was incredibly bright, but was incredibly gentle with us, and always very encouraging. I remember during my dissertation phase, him giving me very guided feedback that I had to learn how to receive. I remember he questioned my interpretation of one document, and I was at first just really certain, certain, certain that I was right. And I don’t know how long it was before I went back and read it again and realized that, oh yeah, what he said was true. He just made everything that I did better when I could receive his input, so much so that when I was working on the final edits of my manuscript as I prepared to take what had been my dissertation to print, he was giving me feedback. And I was so grateful for him, but I didn’t realize that he was suffering with ALS, and that those would be some of his last functioning moments. I think he’d already lost the ability to speak. We’d always communicate by email, and not too long after that book came out, he had passed away. I think by the time I accepted the award from the Florida Historical Society for the book, I was able to dedicate that award to him, because he’d passed away by then. But just an incredible guiding hand for myself and a number of African American students studying history, and he was very supportive of us, as well as Whites who were studying African American history; he was just always really kind and careful with us. So it was rigorous. I remember being so intimidated by Sally Hadden, she’d come to us from Harvard, and we could never know enough for her. [Laughter] She could be so, like, visibly frustrated and disappointed by us, it was really disheartening. I think that was the semester I would’ve quit, if I could have,





because it was just a lot. I was working and trying to live up to her expectations. And, yeah. I remember going to Althemese Barnes, I worked with Mrs. Barnes at the Riley House. I just went in one day, I was like, “Look, if I quit school, would you just hire me?” And she was just like, “No, you’ve got to finish what you’re doing.” And I’m really grateful for her, because I think selfishly it would have perhaps helped her operation to have had me there, but she was looking out for my future and encouraging me to go and finish what I’d started. But it was good, I spent a term as the head of the Black Graduate Student Association there, so there was a bond of folks who were there. I think I was a little nervous about making the switch from a historically Black college to a PWI; I remember being really anxious about if I could really measure up. Because you get those messages, always, about that somehow an HBCU education is inferior to what you would get anywhere else. But I did really well. I was able to compete and write at the level of so many of my other peers, and yeah. I think it was pretty soon that that abated, and I was able to go on. But overall, aside from the classroom anxiety I think, just being on a predominantly White campus, there was some anxiety around that. But I did so little, I mean graduate school is so different than undergraduate; I just remember fighting for parking. [Laughter] Getting to my class was good; as long as I could do that. We had an excellent graduate advisor, Debby. I forget Debby’s last name, but she always took such good care of us. So there was not a whole lot of kerfuffle about getting in my classes. But if I can find a place to park, if I could find a place to study in the





library, I was good. Good place to get coffee. [Laughter] It was a really positive experience overall.

	A:	That’s good. And I don’t want to take up too much more time, but I want to connect your graduate work to your life, and your growing up in Live Oak, and those conversations that you had with your grandfather during undergrad. What was that ultimate decision, why did you decide to go ahead and look at that specific lynching?

	H:	Yeah, I don’t think I ever got over the shock of surprise of something like that could happen in my town, you know? In the place that I grew up. And so much of my awakening and discovery of African American history, on the one side was enlightenment, but that illumination also vivified the silence that I had been exposed to, the silence that my family members had maintained around the truth of their lives and our experiences. So I think I was really just trying to understand that, maybe, a little bit more. It just really intrigued me. And as I started to poke around a little bit more—and maybe a little lazy, because it was there, like I was already exposed to it, I’d started poking around on the NAACP papers and finding more evidence. So it just kind of pulled me along. It kind of pulled me along. And I think the fact that it was in this region was important because two of the four lynchings that I write about were the places where my mother and father, and my ancestors, were from. And so the story was very personal in that way. I think I also, after my experiences of going to FAM and learning more about the broader world, I really wanted to represent rural north Florida. So I think it was important for me to tell in that regard. And as I learned more about oral history, I





felt it was important to give voice to the people who live in those communities. I felt that my genealogical connection helped me in forging relationships. Because somebody brought up earlier today, you know question number one was, “Who are you?” Second question was, “Who are your people?” So, they knew my people, and it made it easier to get into networks and get past gatekeepers, and among elders in the African American community, whether it was in Quincy, in Marianna, or in Madison. So, it was really a labor of love. And I think the more that I research, I’ve always been very compelled and proud of being able to document the voices of people who would otherwise be ignored. Not only because of where they were in these rural towns in north Florida, but because of who they were. That they were Black people, who were considered to be disposable, whose pain was considered to be less than. And the retrieval of their versions of these stories was just really, really important to me. The craft of oral history, the personal nature of it, the ability to help someone validate their own lives; you sit down with someone and they’re just like, “Why do you want to talk to me? My life is not special.” But then walking them through these recollections, and watch this entire unique story bloom and blossom, and where it converges with other facts of history, where it diverges, and it’s its own unique story; it was always a really beautiful process. I learned so much from these folks, the wisdom that they’d garnered over the years. And I think that was something really special, there’s a give and take. I think there is a level of reverence in being willing to take someone’s story. There’s reverence in being able to receive it, I think that there is honor in being asked to deliver it; and so the most special





moments I have have been around that feeling of being a representative of a younger generation, being able to be granted audience, number one, but to have the privilege of collecting these stories. It’s beautiful work, it really is. It’s a privilege, and being here at this conference has illuminated that for me in a way that it hasn’t been in a really long time, and it’s a great shot in the arm. It’s like, I’m in the midst of another project that I’m kind of struggling to make time for, but whenever I can get in the zone, just trying to recapture some of that magic of this work and what it means.

	A:	Yeah. Those are beautiful words. Could you tell me how your work kind of impacted the relationships you had at home?

	H:	Mmm.



	A:	Well we’ve already talked, kind of about that, to a great depth.



	H:	Yeah, you know—. [Laughter] It’s weird, with my family, I think that my family is proud of me; I couldn’t tell you who’s my book in my family. I can remember when the book first came out and the library edition ran, and the books were seventy-five dollars, and I had some program, and people were like really happy. It was like, “But I’m going have to wait and borrow your momma’s copy of the book.” I was like, “I completely understand.” So yeah, like I said, I think my family’s proud, I know they’re proud of me, but it hasn’t really changed a whole lot. We don’t deal with it at that level, necessarily. I will say I do think that I have not made friends with the White community in my hometown. There has never been that invitation of, “Hey! That’s the PhD from our hometown who has won kind of these two awards for her book. She should come and talk.” There’s never





been that. Which is, some days it strikes me as a little strange, but then it’s a tough story. I don’t know, I think if there’s anything, I have sometimes wondered if there might be a little resentment or anger at me, and vicariously towards my family because of this work. I couldn’t pinpoint it, but it has worried me. I do worry about the safety of my family. I have worried about the safety of my family. I have worried about my own personal safety. Especially when I was out in the field in Quincy, when I was actively doing this work in like, [19]98, [19]99. But yeah.

	A:	So you mentioned that when you were a young woman, to—I’ll get to the end of this really soon; two more questions, I promise—I mean, stories like Ruby McCollum, and the sexual violence towards her, and to her, and then also the lynchings that have occurred; I mean are people now aware of those stories?

	H:	Yeah, yeah, there’s been a lot more work around it. I mean there’ve been two separate documentaries that have been done on Ruby McCollum, one of which I narrated. It has had some real longevities, some real legs, and I get emails from people occasionally because it’s still airing. It’s on Netflix, I think, on Amazon Prime. So that one had a really far-reaching impact. There’s a book by Tammy Evans, who’s a White resident of Live Oak, who writes about that. So I think her work definitely had an illuminating effort on this, or an illuminating effect on that story. The lynchings, Marvin Dunn has done like a little documentary on it, it was a featured sequence in the Freedom Never Dies documentary on Harry T. Moore, which did pretty well. It was on public television here in the state of Florida probably a decade or more ago. So these stories are kind of common knowledge, and now with social media, they really have gotten out there. And it





was funny, or interesting to me, with the Ruby McCollum documentary: there were, you know, the mayor, who was my social studies teacher in middle school; there were Whites who were openly talking about it; and I think that was a real, real step forward in kind of the racial history of the city to have those people speak on it publicly, knowing that it was going to go into this documentary. So I think in that front, there’s been more success. I think less so with Willie James Howard. there still seems to be this resistance to acknowledging that he was lynched. I would love to see more acknowledgement of Harry T. Moore, he was a native of Suwannee County. I think there should be a huge statue of him on the courthouse square in downtown. I don’t know that that will ever happen, but he is definitely deserving of it. I can think of few people who have been more impactful in the Civil Rights history of the state, and he’s a hometown person done good.

So I think there are still limits to what people are willing to bring front and center. I think the habit for that community and so many other small communities is silence around these issues. And let me not just put it all on small town America: I think generally in our country, people tend to prefer silence around issues of racial violence, especially against African Americans, and I really think that that’s part of the problem. And part of the work that I hope my book does in the world, and I’ve seen it as I’ve gone around and talked to audiences; there are folks who really had no idea about the scope of lynching, number one, in our nation, but number two, in this state. And once they have that orientation, it then becomes an entirely different conversation around understanding the contemporary issues that we are contending with in, in terms of mass incarceration, and hyper-





policing. If you understand it, we have had a very unique and very different experience with law enforcement historically, documentably. Then I think you have to have a different level of empathy and understanding for Black folks when they say that the police are not always our friends in contemporary America. And so, that for me is really important. That idea of history doing real work in the world has always been something that attracted me to the field. That’s why I think I wanted to work in museums, because I knew that not everybody was going to read a book, but this was really accessible. I don’t care where I go in my career, I always end up doing public programming and public conversation because I think it’s just in me to try to educate people in a way that they can understand, that they can grasp, so that we can get more of this information out there, and make sure that it’s having the influence that it needs to have.

	A:	That’s great. Well, I’ll end it there, but do you have anything else that you want to add that we haven’t talked about over these last two hours? Sorry about that! [Laughter]

H:  Yeah, like it just started coming up. But nothing I’d want to add at this time. Yeah. But thank you for the opportunity to really reflect and kind of weave a lot of things together.

	A:	Thank you for all your beautiful words. H:	Thank you.

	A:	I appreciate it. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Megan Sam, June 14, 2019 Audio-edited by:	Ryan Morini, July 30, 2019 Final edit by:	Sandra Romero, July 1, 2021