AAHP 414; Calhoun; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 414 Carl Calhoun

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Marna Weston on June 25, 2016 56 minutes | 33 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 414

Interviewee: Carl Calhoun Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: June 25, 2016



	W:	This is Marna Weston for the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program at the High Springs Civics Center in High Springs Florida, on June 25, 2016. I am at the Douglass High School Reunion of 2016, which is being hosted here in town. The director is Reverend Byran Williams, he’s the one who invited me to be here. And I’m speaking with Mr. Carl Calhoun, a 1955 graduate of Douglass High School.

Mr. Calhoun, thank you very much for your time today. You can just speak naturally in the air, I’ll come a little bit closer.

	C:	Okay, alright.



	W:	So Mr. Calhoun, could you tell me first your date of birth? C:	I was born December 15, 1937.

	W:	And where were you born? C:	In High Springs, Florida.

	W:	In High Springs, Florida. And who were your parents? C:	My father was Arch Calhoun and Mary Calhoun.

	W:	Uh, could you spell your dad’s first name? I didn’t quite catch that. C:	A-R-C-H.

	W:	Arch.



	C:	Calhoun, Mmhm. My mother was named Mary, Mary Lee Calhoun. W:	Was that her maiden name?

	C:	Her name was Mary Lee Robinson.



	W:	And were they originally from Alachua county or had they come here from somewhere else?





	C:	No, they were originally from here. My father and my mother were originally from High Springs.

	W:	And do you have memories of your mother’s mother and father, what their names were and where they’re from?

	C:	Yes, I do. My mother’s mother’s name Severler Robinson, and my grandfather’s name Archie Robinson.

	W:	And where were they originally from?



	C:	They were from this general area, ‘cause some like—actually outside of High Springs was still within the—it was still considered High Springs, but they lived in the country.

	W:	Was it closer to Bland? Or closer toward Trenton, or Bell, or?



	C:	Uh, I would say more closer probably to Bland, yeah. And my grandmother from my father’s side, she raised me from the age of about five, five or six years old. My brother was six and I was five or four and a half, somewhere in that level.

Because my father had gotten murdered by someone. And after, my mother deserted my brother and I at an early age. So what happened was my father went and got my mother to come live with us. And so she stayed with us until— she stayed with us until we were adults. She sent us through high school and everything. So, we moved to get away from High Springs due to the fact they didn’t have any jobs. There wasn’t any jobs available in High Springs. So, my brother went to the service, and I moved to St. Pete. I moved to St. Pete in about 1957. And I stayed there for about a year, but within the year I had gotten married—in [19]58 I got married. I actually moved to St. Pete to go to junior





college. But I wasn’t able to do that because I soon got involved and got married and had a son. So, after then, I worked at this department store called Webb City. Webb City was a very progressive store—it did well ‘cause at that time, in St. Pete, we didn’t have nothing but a small Montgomery Border’s and a small Sears. So, Webb City was the main store that everybody shopped at. And I worked there in the cafeteria for a period of, maybe oh, nine years. Then I moved—I had a promotion. I moved up to the visual merchandising and display art—which I did fashion coordination, and did window trims, and wood art. And then at that time, I enrolled to go to junior college. I went to junior college when I was thirty years old. And I didn’t finish but I did learn a lot, going to being exposed to it. And then, after then—well in the meanwhile, in between that, I still had a set of twin boys. But my wife and I, well we been married fifty-eight years. All our children are grown now and they uh, they all are doing well, they all finished college. One lives in Texas now and one lives in Riverview, Florida, and another lives in Largo, Florida. But, uh, in between that, I had the wonderful years of going to high school in High Springs. That was the main thing in my life, because my grandmother insist that we went to school—and I really enjoyed school. But I got to the point I was dependent on my brother, but I still graduated with honors. I graduated with honors in school, and uh, some incidents happened before I left High Spring. When I left High Spring, I could remember on occasions I—we were raised on the east end of town, and where I’m talking from now, we’re on the west end of town. And all the recreational things was on the west end of town. And if you was walking home, I had people that throw rocks at me—





throw rocks at me, and call me names, and tell me to get off the sidewalk and whatnot. But we didn’t do that, because we had no choice. But, getting away from High Springs was okay with me. Now, going to school was a perfect thing, but the other things—they still had a little hardship about it. But when I moved to St. Pete, we still had it, because it was still that integration thing. And I’ve seen um, people come down—I worked in the cafeteria—and I’ve seen people come down the food line, and they’d turn them away and tell them they couldn’t serve them. But by the same token, between going through all of that, I actually saw the change. I saw the change. I saw the change in, um—and I remember the first day that they permitted a Black couple to come down the line to eat, and everybody in the kitchen was Black, and everybody was so excited. Because I worked in the front to the back by taking the food out. And everybody at the kitchen came out just to see it, because it was a magnificent thing. But that store at Webb City—gradually, they start to take signs down, they start permitting people to eat. But by the same token, a lot of people didn’t realize, then, what a struggle it was. It was a struggle. And I see people reading about it now. I tell my kids—they’re reading about it and talking about it—but I tell them that I lived it. I lived through all of that. And I think people my age can appreciate the change much better than the young kids today, because they don’t realize the struggle that we went through for them to be in the position that they are now. ‘Cause, like, going to Florida State—you didn’t hear. You had to go to Bethune-Cookman or go to FAMU. And see, my kids—one of my twin boys, he originally went to University of Florida. He didn’t do well there, because he got involved in not





studying. He was a real smart person, but he didn’t do what he should have done. But he ended up going to Florida State, but there was a time when they couldn’t go to Florida State. And I realize that, ‘cause there was people that question me, “You mean your children are going to Florida State? How did they get in there!” But they did well, because they didn’t have to pay no interest. He didn’t have to do anything, ‘cause he had good grades. But I’ve seen some great changes. Some great changes. And some of them have been very good for me. I’m glad that I lived long enough to witness some of them. And I can appreciate it better than my sons can, because they don’t realize the struggle, and the name- calling, and the throwing rocks at, and you know, just go sit in the back. And we’d go to the movies, right here in High Springs—we’d go to the movie. We had to sit in the balcony.

	W:	The Priest Theatre right here in High Springs?



	C:	Yeah, yeah. And sometimes they would throw paper and stuff up over the balcony, you know, over there where we had to sit. We called it the Crow’s Nest, that’s what—we called it the Crow’s Nest, because we had to go up those stairs.

	W:	The Crow’s Nest.



	C:	The Crow’s Nest, because it was above, you know. But the main thing is that we’ve seen the change, like I’m coming here now. But I was told yesterday by someone—I heard them say yesterday, speaking—that there’s only eighteen percent of Afro-Americans in High Springs now. And I don’t know what the cause is. Many left why I left—I left because of the [inaudible 8:50] whatever it is,





whatever, ‘cause there was no work here. I can remember I worked at the grocery story.

	W:	Which grocery store?



	C:	Um, well the Suwanee I think—called the Suwanee Grocery store. It used to be located on the end of the street in High Springs there. And uh, I could remember helping the guy in the store out cause I—I don’t wanna brag, but I’m artistic. And I helped fix—I could make things look good out of nothing. And I would learn how to arrange his vegetables and things, and make it all look good, and learn how to use the cutting machines to cut the meat and whatnot. And I was late to work less than five minutes one day, and there was a guy that lived close by, a White guy—Caucasian. And he called him in, and when I got to work, he told me—well, he didn’t need me today. And the lady that worked as a cashier—she called me, she said, “Carl,” she said, “That’s a shame,” she said, “Because knows that you have helped him with this store so much, and got Afro-American people coming to this store, and they will do you that way.” And I said, “Well it’s okay,” but that’s the type of stuff that I lived with in High Springs.

	W:	How old were you when that happened? C:	I was just seventeen.

	W:	And who was the owner of the store?



	C:	I don’t remember—I can’t remember his name. But he owned a small store in Alachua also. But that was my biggest reason for leaving High Springs, because I couldn’t find any work. I couldn’t find anything to do, ‘cause you might could catch the bean truck, or go work in the tater field or something, but I wanted to do





better. But I moved—I actually moved to St. Pete to go to Gibbs Junior College, but I would have been one of the first graduates from that college but, um, I didn’t—I didn’t make it. I went to work in Webb City, and then I met might wife. And very soon, she got pregnant, and then we got married so that—but I was thirty years old before I went to St. Pete Junior College. But I did some correspondent courses and whatnot to get me a better position, so I became—at Webb City, I became the Assistant Manager. And the years passed, and I became the assistant manager of the department, which was visual merchandise and display art.

	W:	Where was Webb City located? Where was the address, or general area?



	C:	Webb City was located on, uh… 2nd Avenue and 9th Street. 2nd Avenue and 9th Street south.

	W:	And was this a predominantly African-American business?



	C:	No, no—this was a big department store. They sold everything in that place— exception: cars. They sold boats, clothes, shoes, anything. The only thing they didn’t sell was cars.

	W:	And who was the owner of that place?



	C:	The Webb City, we called him Dark Webb. He was a Tennessee Caucasian that came there with nothing, and he developed that store. He developed that store into a huge marketplace. It was before the Walmarts and all that, that store.

Actually, Walmart is like a company of that particular store.



	W:	Really?





	C:	Yeah, it was a actual company, because he was the first—it was the first for a lot of things. But like I said, it was the first store in the state of Florida with an escalator.

	W:	What were the relations like between the man that owned the place and the Black employees that worked there?

	C:	He was very—he was a Southerner, ‘cause he was from Tennessee. But he was very nice, if he knew you well. But most of the employees were Black. But he was very good to me. He was very good to me because I worked there, and at Christmastime I decorated his house. I knew his wife, I could go in his house and stuff. But, everybody didn’t have that privilege. But if he met you, he was always very cordial to you. He wasn’t—he never showed any bad vibes with anybody.

But he was—still, he was a Southerner, but he knew me personally because I worked personally in his house and thing.

	W:	Mmhm. Let’s talk about the lunch counter for a second, because I was really fascinated that you were in a kitchen, in a department store, in the early 1960s, when all these things were happening. February 1960, there was the Greensborough sit-in, February 1st; and then by the middle of the month, there was—in Tallahassee—the sit-ins that took place, there at McCrory’s Restaurant. So, what was it like in Tampa, St. Pete—pardon me—at Webb’s in 1960? Were you all aware of what was taking place?

	C:	Oh yes, we were very aware of it because people would come—it was, like I said, it was kinda—it was mind-boggling, because you could work in the store, like principally in the cafeteria. Now, the young lady that cleaned the bathroom,





but she couldn’t use the bathroom. The same thing with the men, you could clean the men’s bathroom, but you couldn’t use it.

	W:	So, where’d you all use the restroom?



	C:	We had a small little nook that we would go to in a different area. W:	And that was for the men and the women, the same thing?

	C:	No they had a separate one, but they would look just large enough for you to get in.

	W:	Now was that just for the employees, or also anybody Black that came in there was using that same facility?

	C:	They weren’t gonna let you use that facility. If you came in there Black, they had a water fountain on the second floor, and they had a sign to let you know that the Colored—the word, “Colored,” they used—“Colored” fountain downstairs. It was downstairs on the outside of the building, a small little fountain, like something you’ve probably seen on—some of those things you’d see there. But that’s what it would be, and that’s where you had to go. If you wanted to go to the restroom, they also—right adjacent to that, was a small restroom you would have to use.

You just couldn’t use—you couldn’t use that facility at all.



	W:	Why do you think they made it separate like that? I mean it seems like you’re really going out of your way to have a water fountain on the second floor for White people on this side; then the Black people still use a separate, and outside—

	C:	—A separate and outside, exactly. And then because we made a sign, ‘cause in my department we made all the signs, too. We made a sign, a big sign standing





on the stairs that said, “Colored Restrooms Downstairs.” Some young kids, some younger people than me, came in one day and threw the sign downstairs. ‘Cause it was like a little riot thing, they got a—you could hear it go “Boom!” when they threw it downstairs. But gradually, gradually, we saw the change. But at that same time, you had all these other things in bigger cities going on, but that was a personal thing that I witnessed. Because in some of the stores, they didn’t even have a place for you, too. They didn’t even have a facilities for you. But at Webb City, we did have that, but it was like outside. The water fountain was outside, the bathroom was outside.

	W:	Could um, African–Americans try on clothes at Webb City? You know, like Easter outfits or things? Or was it like you could look and purchase, but you couldn’t try it on and purchase? Or how was it?

	C:	Now that, I don’t remember. Well you could—no, I can’t remember exactly how that went. I really can’t. But I do remember when they started to hire Black employees in positions. ‘Cause the first day, my wife started to work on the elevator.

	W:	And what was her name? C:	Alice. Alice.

	W:	Okay.



	C:	Mmhm. But she started work on the elevator. And then they were spot hiring Blacks all over town, so they hired her to work in the children’s department—this is in the same store. And she worked in the children’s department, and gradually as time went by, they made her buyer—which was a good position. But she





actually was the first Black that worked in a position and rang a cash register at Webb City.

	W:	Wow. Like at all, just rang any cash register?



	C:	Uh-huh, yeah. And so she and I were almost the first—there was another one man in the grocery store. We were the first Blacks that were put in positions because I became assistant manager of my department. And, well, the young lady that would manage us, she was a young Caucasian woman. But they hired me. That’s when—she’s the one that impressed me to go to Junior College to get some more study in design. ‘Cause she said, “It’d be better for you,” she said, “You can do all the work but it’d be better if you had a [inaudible 17:12].” So I went on to Junior College, but I didn’t continue, but I worked there until the store closed.

	W:	What were the relations between the Black and the White employees like?



	C:	I will say that that was good, to my department. ‘Cause most of the people, they were pretty cordial with you, you know. But they—it was more like when you got outside. Like we working together and I know you but like you know somebody, I don’t know somebody else. We had problems, ‘cause I’d been working in the windows with a Caucasian young lady, helping her do some windows and stuff. And then some guys, some Black guys come by and they, you know, poke fun at her. So, [inaudible 18:00] but it was a lot of anger, because a lot of it—they knew that they weren’t being treated right. Like, they spending their money there, but you got to go a different place to the bathroom. You can’t sit to the counter, but we had no choice, ‘cause you didn’t have anywhere else to go.





	W:	Mmhm. What about in the city in general? Your neighborhood where you lived in St. Pete, was it predominantly African-American neighborhood, was it mixed?

	C:	Yes, yes, it was predominantly Black neighborhood. Like in the south, of central there was a section like on north central, that—between Ninth Street and Sixteenth, that was predominantly Black. But I seen the change. I lived on Third Avenue near a gas flat, which was between Sixteenth Street and Ninth Street, the Main Street. And it was predominantly Black in there. But they tore that down in the last ten, twelve, fifteen years, and made a big dome there. But then, gradually they permitted Blacks to move in the more ritzy aristocrat areas, which would be like in [inaudible 19:17] we call it. ‘Cause I lived in a very predominant Black area for about seven or eight years, and then they started letting Blacks move, maybe one or two move in and then the rest of us moved out. So then it became almost predominantly Black, but it was nicer houses and things. So I moved out of there after seven years, I lived in an apartment building, a one-bedroom apartment. But then they started letting Blacks move—that was when the change was coming.

	W:	Mmhm. Now, when you say they built the dome, you’re talking about where they played baseball in St. Pete right now?

	C:	Mmhm.



	W:	That was predominantly a Black area around there before? C:	Mmhm. Yes, yes.

	W:	What was it like growing up in that neighborhood? You know, or—





	C:	—Well it was—it was pretty well for me, because in that area we had a drycleaner, a corner store, a drugstore, ‘cause I lived right in down, ‘cause I only had to walk from maybe Fourteen Street to Ninth Street to work. I could walk to work, you know.

	W:	And these are predominantly Black-owned businesses?



	C:	Mmhm. Oh yeah, these were, uh-huh. Now the grocery store was White, but they had a drycleaner in there, they had a hairdresser on in there that was Black- owned. But see, my kids—we lived in that area, ‘cause it was a Black area and it was getting kind of rough, ‘cause there was a bar across the street and my little boy was like that [motions height with hands], and I didn’t wanna raise them there. So we got out of there. We was very fortunate. We were fortunate enough to be able to move out of there. But I gradually see, you know, I saw the change, but it wasn’t always easy [laughter]. It wasn’t always easy ‘cause… Now this is my hometown, but it still was no comparison to St. Pete, you know because it was rough here. ‘Cause I was like seventeen years old, sixteen, seventeen eighteen—seventeen years old, and they used to throw rocks at you and call you names. I remember one night, I had to run from the main highway to the railroad tracks and go home, because I lived on the east end of town. But, um, I’m very blessed that I survived it. Not a lot of people did have those problems but, I definitely had mine. A friend of mine told me—one of the administrators at my church—he told me, he said, “Brother Calhoun, we need to write some memoirs [laughter].” I said “Well,” I said, “Some of them are just too [inaudible 21:51]. You know we’re telling too much, cause a lot of things happened.”





	W:	Mmhm. You mention that your father was murdered. I was very sorry, very sorry, to hear that, I know that’s got to stick with you now.

	C:	It’s very hard because my mother actually deserted my brother and I when we were like four. I was about four and a half, he was six. My daddy later remarried. He had a son with a second wife and she murdered him, you know. So that left my grandmother to raise us by herself.

	W:	Now, you didn’t get a chance to tell me about your dad’s mother and father. You mentioned that she was a primary, but I didn’t get their names.

	C:	Oh her name was Isabel. We called her Babe, and she was the love of my life. W:	And your grandfather?

	C:	My grand, I never met him. He died before I was born.



	W:	Okay. What was it like living in your grandmother’s home? Did you have chores?



You know what were the expectations? You mentioned you graduated with honors so could you talk a little bit about her expectations of you?

	C:	Oh yes, oh yes. She started us out by writing our ABCs on the wall. And uh, she was determined to send us to school because when my daddy was killed, my dad told her—I heard—he said, “Mom, I want [23:07] to go to school.” He said, “Mom, make sure my boys go to school.” And she lived up to that. And I went to school. There were times my brother and I had perfect attendance. And just— nobody but her—just the two of us. The two of us and our grandmother lived in that old house. The house that we were born in—and it’s still there. We still own that property, it’s coming up on High Spring on 441, just inside the city limit. But she was strict on us, but it was out of love. It was out of love and she was there





for us. She made a sacrifice of her life to take care of us, ‘cause she came to take care of us, she was like in her early fifties. And all her children were grown. She could go out and been doing something, but she gave us her life. That’s why I was so attached to her. And uh, she took care of us. We never wanted for food, we never wanted for a place to stay, we never wanted for clothes, nothing. She had—everything we needed, she got it for us. And it was—at that time, they called it a old lady’s check or something, a welfare check. But she got sixty-six dollars a month, that she would get social security from our dad. But she made it work for us. She made it work for us and nobody never came, her sister or nothing, she did it on her own. But um, she was a good momma and a lot people—she was strict. She was strict on us. She told us to do something—and it got embarrassing as we got older—if we went to a fair at the school or anywhere and she told us to be home at a certain time. And if we weren’t there, she’d call our names. She called my brother—his name’s Robert—and she’d call—his name was Robert Benjamin. So we called him R&B, and so you could hear R&B [imitating yells of Grandma] [laughter]. So what we’d do is we’d run and all the other kids was laughing at us [laughter]. “Your grandma be calling!” So we were running to get closer to the house so we’d answer. But uh, she was a good momma. She was a good momma.

	W:	How did you keep your relationship going with your grandmother when you moved to St. Pete? Did you come back and forth, did you all talk on the phone or write letters?

	C:	We moved her there.





	W:	Okay, you moved there with her.



	C:	Yeah, because she was alone. She was very attached to me. As a matter of fact, she had eleven children of her own. But I was—she considered me as her baby. And there was a lot of—I got a little jealousy about it because she loved me so, but I loved her dearly. My daddy told me from the day that I realized that she was my grandmother, how attached I was to her. And it was that way ‘till the day she died, ‘till the day she died. ‘Cause she had three daughters in St. Pete there. But when I walked in that room or when I said, “Momma, how you feeling?” I’d always give her a little kiss and tell her I love her. And we were very close. There was nobody on the face of the Earth that she was closer than she was with me. Her daughters you know, she loved them. They were her children. But she’d tell ‘em quick, “That’s my baby.” She said, “He has loved me all his life.” So we, you know, we had that connection. I’ll be very honest with you, when she passed away—even though she raised us in the church—she raised us in the church, but when I lost her I got, uh, I didn’t do too well. But my wife’s mother came and talked with me. She said, “I’ll be your mother now.” Well, that was good to say, but nobody could fill that spot.

	W:	Mmhm. What does it mean to you to be here at the Douglass High School reunion?

	C:	It means, it’s a joyful occasion to me, to see people that I’ve known all my life. To see people that we were young kids, grew up together, and some of us, now we old. Some of us getting old. And I had—it’s a joyful occasion, but it’s a sad occasion. ‘Cause see, my class was the largest class that graduated from





Douglass. There was only nineteen of us, and all of us are gone now, but seven. And not one is here this—today. So that’s the sad part, none of them are here today. The ones that are living, there’s nobody here.

	W:	You’re the only one representative of your class? C:	I’m the only one today, yeah.

	W:	And that’s the class of [19]55?



	C:	Yes, uh-huh. But we had some—see now one or two out there left, that were classmates, but they never graduated. So they still, they represent. You see, how they’re doing it here is if you went to Douglass any time—if you went for two years, one year, whatever—they still invite you. So, that’s why it’s called “Douglass reunion” instead of “class reunion”. But uh, I feel good. Some of the people, you know—actually the young lady sitting over there, I’ve known them all their life. I’ve known ‘em from little girls, but they’re not as old as me. They lived further down the road from where we lived, and they’re a distant cousin of mine. But see my grandmother’s gone now, so I can’t make all them connections. But my great-grandmother, she mostly was Indian. There’s a lot of Indian blood. And my grandmother said she’d come visit her sometime. She had so much Indian blood that she’d sit on the ground. Her hair was so long that it would fall in the sand and she could shake the dirt off her head in her lap. Yeah but they were— and on my grandfather’s side, they were very highly mixed people. Their complexion and their hair and all this thing but, I don’t know the history of it ‘cause, a lot of—my grandmother told me, but a lot of it she couldn’t tell me, sorry.





	W:	That’s fine. Do you still recall who your best friend in high school was? C:	Yes. Charles Bell. But he passed away some time ago.

	W:	What kinds of things did y’all do together? What activities were you in at school?



What’s something fun you did?



	C:	Well, the fun things I did is, like, we got Mrs. Taylor. Mrs. Taylor used to have what we called [inaudible 28:56]. And Mrs. Taylor demanded me to sing. And I said, “I can’t sing.” And she said, “Everybody in your family can sing!” So she demanded me to just get on stage and sing.

	W:	This is Catherine Taylor? C:	Catherine Taylor.

	W:	I’ve heard many good stories about her.



	C:	[Laughter] And my legs shaking like this and she made me sing. But I gave her credit for starting me to sing. I gave her credit for starting me to speak up and speak out. I give her credit for teaching me to do everything ‘cause if you didn’t— like I said—if you didn’t do it, she’d put that belt on you.

	W:	[Laughter].



C:   And you’re thinking it’s bad, but it was a good thing. As I got older, I used to hug her and tell her, “I love you.” “You better love me!” You know, and that’s the way she was. But she loved all—she loved the kids. And she loved, just the teacher, she loved—she cared about us. So anyway, she and my first grade teacher Mrs. Mills—

W:   —Mrs. Mills?





	C:	Esther Mills, she was my first grade teacher. And she lived just north, just ‘cross the road almost from us. And she used to ride my brother and I to school some mornings, you know? She would ride—if she was out there, then she’d drive us. But she was—all the teachers were, they were like second parents. They were parents, they loved—you know, they took time with you. And they knew every child potential, and they dealt with them according to their learning. ‘Cause they could look at you and tell you, “You can do better than that!” You know? And they were there to support you. When I graduated from high school, every teacher on that faculty gave me a gift.

W:   Wow.



C:  And I went and bought a car—my brother’s car, ‘cause he graduated a year before me. But they was just running over everybody. Every teacher on that faculty gave me gifts.

W:   So they really invested in you?



	C:	Yeah, yeah. They pushed me. They pushed me because after my dad got killed I had a little chip on my shoulder. I never got into any trouble. But Mr. Caffer was a good teacher. He was my English teacher and Liberty teacher. He was a good man, he taught us well. I tell, a lot of children, they said things about him. I said I had nothing to do with their personal life. I can only say what they were to me, and they were good teachers—Mr. Caffer, Mrs. Taylor, and Mrs. McDonald, and Mrs. Ethel Miller—she was Mrs. Mill’s sister. They were good people. They were good people and they taught us well. And they, you know, they disciplined us. If they had not been—and see, I started—Charles Bell, I’ll go back to him. He





played trumpet. He played trumpet in a little band that we had. We would teach—had a little band. He played trumpet and I was the vocalist, -and I sang. So we go right there to Lawtey, Florida. Go up to Lawtey, Florida and start—

	W:	Lawtey, that’s the big city! Peaksville. [Laughter]



	C:	Yeah, it was Lawtey. And we’d go to Bell, you know the city— W:	—I know Bell, yeah.

	C:	And we used to sing. I had to show you how things were then, because I used to sing in nightclubs! White nightclubs! But I can remember going to Green Cove Spring to sing, and there was a young lady that sing, her name was Esther.

Esther Lewis. She and I would sing a duet together. And then, between that singing—you know, like the big space there—and she and I would like, do a little dance, a swing dance. And a man walked up he said, “I’m sorry, you cannot dance in here.”

	W:	Even though you were doing the act? C:	That’s right.

	W:	So, as a part of the act, you could not dance?



	C:	Yes, that’s right. That is Green Cove Spring. And then that was something, ‘cause a lot of sailors were there. They said, “Sorry, you can’t dance in here.” And we’d sit down. I’ve been to places where they—places up in Lawtey, Stark, somewhere in there—I can’t remember now. They had, um, it was a Private Club, ‘cause it was like a log cabin. They had a fireplace, bigger, almost [inaudible 32:46]. They was dancing and having drinks and drinking, ‘cause I





know we weren’t drinking anything. They was drinking, I guess, moonshine; they had it in jugs.

	W:	[Laughter]



	C:	But they kept pouring something, telling the master—the guy in the band—to pour it in the jug, so they had a jug full of it. And I was singing, and this lady came up. She was a beautiful lady, she had blue eyes and had dark hair, which kind of stands out. And she said, “Oh sing!” You know, and she was just so excited, ‘cause I was singing. And that man hit that lady so hard, she fell on the floor. She got up, but she came out…She came out with a knife. He hit her again so hard, the knife went in the fireplace. And I sat down—

	W:	—that was the end of the show right there.



	C:	And I told—I told the guy in the back—I said, “Mr. Carter [inaudible33:39-33:43].” He said, [inaudible 33:43]. I said, “No sir.” I told him, “Mr. Carter, I’m not getting up there to sing anymore. This man jumping on this lady. Next time, he’ll knock me upside my head.” ’Cause he was angry, ‘cause she—

	W:	—‘cause she liked that you were singing. C:	Exactly.

	W:	This a White lady? C:	Yeah!

	W:	And he didn’t like that.



	C:	This was an all-White club. Aingt nobody in there Black, but us. W:	So that was the end of that.





C:  That was the end of that, that was the end of me standing there [Laughter]. So I sat down, and I told him, you know, I said I can’t do it. ‘Cause actually, I had no business there, ‘cause they could do that then, ‘cause I was underage.

Underage. I was only seventeen years old. But you know what? We’d go and they would let us sing in those clubs. We sang in a lot of White clubs. Charles Bell—he and I, we would use to get our little girlfriends together and hang out [Laughter]—he was my buddy. But after high school, most of my—about two…three—one, two…—three of the girls went to school to be school teachers. Another one of my friends went to the marines. Another one went to the navy, I think it was. But mostly, that’s what they did. They went to the service, most of them. But two or three girls, three of the young ladies—they went to school to be schoolteachers. That was the Bright sisters. And my other friend Gran Mosley, she went to be a teacher. But Arlene, Arlene was the…man, she was the smartest young lady. I believe a few point from being a genius. But she passed away five years ago. She and I were very close. I was the President of my class all the way through high school and until eleventh grade.

W: Wow. Freshman, sophomore, junior—the whole thing.



C: Yeah. And in eleventh grade, I think I was too shy. I couldn’t see why—I didn’t wanna do it. But the eleventh graders would have to go out and march the twelfth graders in. And that’s what I did, I refused. So they hired another—they got another guy. And they said if he don’t do it, you still gonna have to do it. And I said “No, I’ll stay home that day.” But anyway, I was President, and they still respected me. As—right now we have a reunion, they still respect me. They don’t





make a voice, they don’t say nothing until they call me and talk to me. And Luscious—the last one of my classmates that passed away—he would go, “No no, well Carl is the president.” And they all gave me that respect. Now Eileen and I—whatever, we did we planned it together. If she got a new idea or something, she didn’t do nothing, or move on it, or said nothing ‘till she called me. She said, “Carl.” I said, “No Eileen, we don’t need to do that.” She said, “You don’t think so?” I said “No, let’s try something else.” She say, “Okay.” You know, I loved them for that, because all my classmates respected me like I was somebody special. [Laughter] Yeah.

W:  When you think back over your formal education—your primary, your middle school, your high school—um, I guess if you were at Douglass, it was all the same school?

C:   Mmhm.



	W:	Okay, who was um—who were probably the two most outstanding teachers you can remember, and why? You mentioned Mrs. Taylor already—

	C:	—Yeah, but Mrs. Mills, my first grade teacher. Cause she—she’s a loving lady. I can remember—one day I made a statement, because they had the PTA. And they had a little stand for the children to buy ice cream during the lunch break.

And I volunteered to do it. And she had them to collect, when they had PTA, they would give me a few dollars. Six or seven little dollars, which was good money to me you know. But she watched me—watched me closely—‘cause I had a mouth. I was making noise in the hall and she said, “Mr. Calhoun!” She said, “I’m surprised at you!” And I would mumble, I said, “Don’t be surprised what’d I do.”





	W:	[Laughter]



	C:	And she said, “What did you say?” She said, “When school’s out, I want you to come to my classroom.” And I went in there and that lady shook her finger in my face, just like my momma, my grandmomma. She said, “Let me tell you one thing. Your grandmother would not appreciate this, and neither do I.”

	[Knock on door] [Woman’s voice]: “They’re running out of food.” C:	They are?

	W:	You wanna grab something?



	C:	Yeah, okay, let me get a little something.



	W:	We’re re-continuing the interview after a brief hiatus.



	W:	Okay we’re re-continuing again. [Laughter] Go ahead sir.



	C:	And she says, “You come in that room.” So I went to that room and she put that finger in my face and told me, “Don’t you ever!” And I mean she’s just like my mom [Laughter]. She goes, “Don’t you ever talk to me like that again.” She said, “Young man, don’t you forget who I am.” “Yes ma’am.” I said, “I’m sorry Mrs.

Mills.” She said, “You be sorry, because you’re important to me.” And I said, “Yes ma’am, I know, I know.” And she said, “You know your grandmother’s working, and your grandmother’s trying too hard to raise you fellas right.” But I had a great respect. She was my first teacher. She took time ‘cause my brother was kinda smart, but I was kinda slow. And I kinda depended on him ‘cause, you know, he was a year and a half older than me. In fact, a year and eleven months! He just sort of carried me. [Inaudible 39:18]. But she and Mrs. Taylor. Now, I had some more in the middle and they were good. Like Mr. Caffety and Mrs. McDonald,





they were good teachers. And Mrs. Roberts. They were good teachers and I loved them because they took time with me. But sometimes I just wanted to run my mouth and play. And I was kinda popular because everybody would come and ask me questions. I mean, we were teenagers. The young ladies would come, “Carl you know why I’m so…” We would go the movies. We’d sit down and have about five or six people round. I got to explain to them what the movie meant. You know they’d come to me and, “Ask Carl. He knows!” So it got to the point that I, I guess I was sorta [inaudible 40:00]. They’d come to Carl for everything but Carl wasn’t getting his homework, you know. So my brother, he’d carry me ‘cause I was the youngest, but my grandmother said, “But he act like he’s your child!” So she told him one day, you can have him, you take him ‘cause he listen to you more [laughter]. But my favorite teachers definitely would be Mrs. Mills and Mrs. Taylor.

	W:	Mmhm. Do you feel that they helped—in doing these things—prepare you for life? Did they give you some type of a leadership training or confidence?

	C:	Yes, they did.



	W:	What is your definition of leadership?



	C:	Leadership is, being to me, is having the ability to help someone. To show them, by example, how things can be if they apply themselves. Having confidence in themselves. Having confidence and believing in yourself. And have a dream and work for that dream until your day of death. Regardless that, what it is, don’t ever give up on a dream. And that’s what I tell everybody, that’s one quote that I like. Like Martin Luther King said, “I have a dream.” That—if you have dream—you





work for that until the day you die. Even if it never happens. If it never happens, you don’t give up on it. That’s what dream mean, a dream is a fantasy of what you want. And I had the dream of becoming a musician. My daddy had obligated himself to buy me a piano from, from a White guy, Caucasian guy that had wanted to sell an old piano. He had also hired a lady, and all I knew about [inaudible 41:51] lady. But she played very well, and had spoke to her about teaching me to play the piano. And my birthday—he got killed in June—and my birthday was all the way in December, so I never got that piano. And I tell ya that—well, I would tell people to follow they dreams because, see, I felt, to this day I feel if my dad had lived, that I would have fulfilled that dream. But see, that destroyed my dream. It destroyed my dream, because he—he called my brother’s lightskin, that’s why he called him rabbit. He called me cougar—that was his little nick-name. But he had already—I was going down the road one day and this lady stopped me, and she goes—she had called my daddy Bubba. And she said, “Hey! Hello there.” I said, “Hi Mrs. [42:36].” She said, “Come here.” I walked up to her and she said, “You’re Bubba’s boy aren’t you?” And I said, “Yes ma’am.” And she said, “Oh.” She said, “Well you’re the one Bubba had spoke to me about teaching you piano.” And I said, “Yes ma’am.” And she said, she goes, “Well I’m sorry about your daddy.” And I said, “Yes ma’am.” But see that’s what did it. He had already got, getting ready to buy the piano and spoke to the man that already spoke to her about teaching me lessons and all. But that was my dream, but see, my dream was destroyed. So that’s why I encourage them, if you have a dream you work for it until, you know, if you see it can’t work, but keep on





believing it! But see a lot of people think, “Well I can’t do this and I’m gonna give up.” My wife would tell me now—I’m trying to fix something—and she said, “Lawrence, leave it alone!” And I said, “No, I’ll get it after a while.” And it’s determination. I was determined. If something was—I’d put it down and you know, I’d say I’ll come back to it. But I still hadn’t forgotten about it and go back to it. Now, that’s my dream, I go back to it. Like I said everybody have their own definition for it, but mine is, if you have a dream, don’t give up on it. Don’t give up on it. That’s what I believe in. And people say now, you’re sick, you’re this, and I say I’m good. Because I believe. Because the main thing, I trust God. I don’t care what I do, or who I said, or what I don’t do, I put all my faith in God. ‘Cause I know God has brought me through, and God answers prayers. Because a lot of people don’t believe that, but—he may not do it exactly like you want him to do it—but he does it for the best. Because, see, like my grandmother, I prayed for my grandmother to live, I asked God to let her live. And I used to hear her praying at night. And I didn’t understand her as a little kid, but I’d hear her praying, and she’d say, “Lord, let me live to get my babies from other under the feet of people.” And that was her prayer, she was praying the best she knew how. I didn’t understand that until later on. I understood it because we were grown, and I had my children, and then that’s when she left. Exactly what she prayed for, it happened. ‘Cause when she prayed enough, she said, “let me live.” And she lived to see my grandbaby, my baby, which would have been to her grandchildren. And she left, and she was pleased with me ‘till the day she died.

She was pleased with me. And she told me, one day she said, “If my daughters





had been nice to me as you, I would have no problems.” And she said, “Have both faith in you and your God.” And I did all three of them put together. [Inaudible 45:33] and I would have never told them that. But I was praying and she said, “Are you praying for me, son?” I said, “Yeah, momma.” She said, “I don’t hear you.” And I would never pray out loud, like some people get up from church and pray [laughter]. I prayed for my momma, and the next day, she left. I told the lady at work, I said, “I’m sorry, Mrs. McCall. I can’t come to work, I got to see if my momma gone live or die.” And so I took that one day, and she left.

Now, see it works, it works—that is, if you’re sincere. And life works if you’re sincere. But you’ve got to be sincere. And you can’t wait for handouts, you have to reach out and try to find something. Some people want everything given to them. But if you want something, you have to get out and work for it. Have confidence in yourself.

	W:	You described yourself earlier as a cancer survivor? C:	Yes.

	W:	Is that something that you feel comfortable talking about for a little bit? You know, uh, your battle with cancer.

	C:	Oh yes, yes. That’s alright. Well that’s what I said about things happening the right way if you trust and believe. Um, I had several exams for cancer. I had the prostate, I had bloodwork—I had bloodwork done, and had the rectal exam. And the doctor told me it was okay. But I said, “Something’s wrong, because I have to get up every night too often to the bathroom.” Never had no pain, but it’s uncomfortable. I can’t sleep, every fifteen minutes or half an hour





[inaudible47:10]. I can’t rest at night. So, he did a biopsy. And the biopsy showed—well, the biopsy didn’t show nothing. I said, “Something’s wrong, Doc.” I said, “I would like you to do another biopsy.” He said, “Well, Mr. Calhoun, I did.” I told him the exact date, and he did it. And he said, “Oh, you were right.” He did another biopsy. And the next time I went to see him, I go into his office with my little shorts on and cap. And he said okay. He said, “Mr. Calhoun, I got your report back from your biopsy, but unfortunately, you have cancer.” And I said, “Oh, wow.” My wife was at work and it was devastating. I left the office and I got home, and she called me from work. She said, “How did it go?” And I said well, “Your husband has cancer.” And you know, she got quiet. And I said, “I’ll be okay.” So then I met back with the doctor. It was the doctor, my wife, one of my sons, and my sister. And he told me, well at my age there’s nothing we could do. He gave me some alternatives. And I said “Well, as old as I am, why don’t we just, um—I said what do you think?” He said, “Well, Mr. Calhoun I’m a surgeon.” And I said, “Well, you’re still my doctor. What would you suggest?” He said, “Well, maybe it would be best if you just had radical surgery.” I said, “I was thinking that, ‘cause then I’d know it was supposed to be gone.” But brother, it did not go. I don’t know what happened, there’s no man perfect. I don’t know what happened, but it didn’t work. And I still was having the problem with peeing and getting up, and so he did my PSA, and he said he did the work and he said, “Mr. Calhoun, well, your prostate’s gone.” He said, “But it’s in your bloodstream. What happened?” I said, “Well, you’re my doctor and if you can’t tell me, I surely don’t know.” So then he said, “Oh we’ll just watch it.” By the grace of God, there was





this paper called the Weekly Challenge and it was for predominantly Black people. I’m reading the paper—it said Afro-American man, come to Martha Cancer center [inaudible 49:21]. It was the first time I ever made an appointment, ‘cause, you know, my appointments to the doctor—my wife would make them. I got that phone and I made an appointment to go to Martha Cancer Center. When I went there, those guys told me, “You’re Mr. Calhoun. I see you have cancer going on here.” He said, “We’re gonna start you on treatment right away.” He started me on treatment right away. I said, “Will I be taking radiation?” And he came and he said, “No, no, no, you’ll be taking a treatment called Elegard.” He said, “It’s a female hormone, but it will keep your testosterone down.” And he said, “I can assure you, now, it will last two years, no more than three—maybe three—but that’s all I can promise you.” I said, “Wow, okay.” I said, “Okay, that’s all you can do.” I said, “Let’s trust God.” He gave it to me, and I’ve been going on that treatment, now, for twelve years. But see my wife put it up on the computer just last week. I find out it was a new drug. It’s been exactly twelve years, so I was a Guinea pig, but it’s helped me. In the meanwhile—in between that, as I’m getting older—they wanted to put me in a research program, asking about it. And I said to my doctor, “Well, why would I go into a research program, if what you’re giving me is helping me?” So he said, “Well Mr. Calhoun, there’s some people.” And I said, “Well, I understand that, but I don’t like researchers.” [Laughter] And he made a very profound statement. He said, “I tell you what, Mr. Calhoun, you must be a liar then. That treatment that you’re getting, it was a research one time.” And I said, “You’re absolutely right.” I said, “But I just feel that this is doing





me well.” It doesn’t make sense—‘cause see, I’m an observant person. My wife would tell [inaudible 51:24] there must be something wrong. But, I noticed that one or two older guys, I heard them questioning. And they were putting older guys in it. And I would think, “Well, if it doesn’t work, she’s just gonna live about four more years anyway.” See, you have to use your head too. And so that’s why—but so far, I’m very blessed now, because I’ve had about six major surgeries. The last surgery I had was for diverticulitis, and they took out all my colon but two feet. That’s all I got. And that—that was worse for me than the cancer. I stayed in the hospital thirty-two days. I had what they call Cida while I was in there—it turns your bowels black as your pants. And the doctor, Dr.

Sickleman told my wife, “I don’t think he’ll make it.” But you’re looking at me, so I made it. But I tell people, “I don’t care what you doing and I don’t care how much education you got. Where you went or who you know. You must pray, you must put God first.” I feel—like I tell my wife—just every day, every day, one day at a time. I said, “But I’m looking at it this way. Whatever God has in store for me, nothing will change it.” And I know God has been on my side, because I’ve got friends and associates that I know have my condition, and they’re gone. And I’m still here. God kept me for a reason. And all my family on both sides, all of them look to me when everything was happening. They’d call me—and I’d get so depressed sometimes. And I would just say, “Jesus, Jesus, Jesus!” ‘Cause everybody expect me to fix it. My niece’s daughter died and went to sleep, and her husband came home from Knoxville, Tennessee. My sister’s daughter. And my sister’s granddaughter—she’s forty-three years old and just got married—and





the daughter called me, she goes, “Uncle Carl. Marcy’s—I lost Marcy.” “What!” So my sons—my twin boys—and my wife and my daughter, we drove to Knoxville. And they were so happy just to see Uncle Carl. You know, I tell my wife, I say, “You know something?” I say, “God picked—I’m one of those—God picked them special people.” [Laughter] ‘Cause that’s the way it was with my daddy, everybody in my family depended on him. Everybody in the family called, “Bubba, where’s Bubba, where’s my brother, where’s my uncle?” And then my daddy was thirty-eight years old when that woman killed him. And you know, he didn’t get to see us grow up and he didn’t get to see my grandchildren. But…

	W:	You described yourself as a vocalist earlier and you talked about singing in those clubs. Do you know the class song at Douglass High?

	C:	No, not by heart. I’m getting a little dense in the head, too, I can’t. ‘Cause I was saying—I used to still say the Gettysburg Address. And today I could not remember how it started. And then, now, see, like I think it’s coming to me. It was, “Four-score and seven years ago.” See, now, it came to me now, but earlier today, I tried and I just boggled my brain to think of it. And some days, I can remember things, but I told my wife I’m getting dementia or senile [laughter]. But anyway, you know, I’m thankful.

	W:	Mr. Carl Calhoun, I cannot thank you enough for the opportunity to sit down and speak with you about Douglass High School and about your life, your many great victories, and the obstacles you faced as well. Thank you for sharing that. I’d like to give you the last word in the interview. You can just talk a little bit about the





interview, or about your life, or anything you want. But when you finish whatever you’re going to talk about, that’ll conclude the interview with our thanks.

	C:	Okay, well, I’ll say it has been a pleasure to be able to talk with someone. ‘Cause you don’t get to often, unless it’s an interview, to express yourself to people and feel confident and feel comfortable with it. And this has been a comfortable interview, and I appreciate you doing this with me. And I hope everything goes well with you, okay? [Laughter]

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Margaret Clarke



	Audit-edited by:	Bianka Ramirez; October 17, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 26, 2019