Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 189 Henry Louis Wade African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Maria Muñoz on September 2, 2011 3 minutes | 2 pages



Abstract: This interview was conducted at an event celebrating the legacy of Robert Jenkins Ellerson (RJE) High School in Starke, Florida. Mr. Wade is an RJE alum from 1965. He describes playing on the basketball team as perhaps his fondest memory among many, and he relates that he also served in the US 82nd Airborne in the Vietnam War. He talks about the impact that segregation had on the Black community in Starke.





Keywords: [African American History; Bradford County, Florida; RJE High School; US Military Veterans]

























































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 189

Interviewee: Henry Louis Wade Interviewer: Maria Muñoz Date: September 2, 2011



	M:	So what’s your name?



	W:	My name is Henry Louis Wade.



	M:	All right, Henry, and what high school did you graduate from? W:	I graduated RJE High School. 1965.

	M:	Awesome. And what is your fondest memory of RJE?



W:  Well that was a quick question that I can’t answer quickly. [Laughter] I think it was playing basketball. Playing basketball for RJE was probably—I have the fondest memories of the camaraderie of our basketball team.

	M:	And what did that mean to you as you were a student in RJE to be a basketball player?

	W:	Well, being a basketball player, we didn’t have a football team, and so I have to happen to be gifted at playing the game of basketball, and I learned early on that if you could play basketball well you became a pretty popular student. You were up there with the smart guys. And even though I thought I was pretty smart, basketball elevated my presence on campus.

	M:	And, after high school, what did you do after high school?



	W:	After high school, I could not go to college right away because my family couldn’t afford it. I learned that if you went in the military you could get to go to college on the GI bill. So I went into the military in 1965 and I joined the air troopers of the 82nd Airborne. Went to Vietnam with the 173rd Airborne Brigade and got out of the service in 1968.

	M:	What does today’s event mean to you?



AAHP 189; Wade; Page 2



	W:	Well, you know, the whole issue of segregation elevated what our life was all about to a level that nobody can ever explain because what it did, it stopped our history. In 1969, during desegregation, RJE came to a standstill, so all of our history was compressed into that year and the preceding time up to that. So we’ve been living in that capsule for the past forty-five or more years— whatever—forty six years.

	M:	And what do you hope comes from today’s event?



	W:	I hope that we can instill in the entire community that RJE will never die. The legacy of those who started this school and those who attended and participated in any way in the history of RJE will always—their presence will always be known.

	M:	Great. Is there anything else you’d like to add?



	W:	No, that’s it for now. I’m kinda exhausted from trying to play basketball with these young fellows. You know once you get Medicare age, you can’t run around and do—. [Laughter]

[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Anna Jimenez, May 16, 2013



	Audit-edited by:	Jeffrey Hartmann, December 5, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 20, 2019