AAHP 314; Glover; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 314 Arthur Glover

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Marna Weston on July 19, 2013 1 hour, 54 minutes | 55 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 314

Interviewee: Arthur Glover Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: July 19, 2013



	W:	This is Marna Weston for the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program at the Hannibal Square Heritage Center in Winter Park, Florida, on July 19th, 2013. I’m having the honor to speak to Mr. Glover today. Mr. Glover, thank you very much for consenting to this interview. We are very appreciative.

	G:	You’re very welcome. No, I was just going to say, I feel good that I was even considered for this. I really do.

	W:	Well, we’re honored. We here you’ve been here a long time, and this interview will help to document your relevance and significance in this community. So, thank you for the interview again. Would you please state your full name, and spell it please?

	G:	My name is Arthur Lorenzo Glover, and it’s spelled A-R-T-H-U-R, Arthur, L-O-R- E-N-Z-O, Lorenzo, G-L-O-V-E-R, Glover.

	W:	Thank you. And when and where were you born? G:	I was born in Winter Park in 1947. April 25th, 1947. W:	And were you born in a hospital or born at home? G:	I was born at home.

	W:	Okay, and where was that home located?



	G:	Right where I live now. 526 Coughlin Avenue, Winter Park, Florida. There was an older house there; I tore down the old house, and I built a new house there for my wife and my kids.





	W:	Do you have any knowledge of the time, maybe your parents told you: when you were born, was there a midwife present, or was there a doctor present? What were the circumstances?

	G:	There was a doctor.



	W:	And do you know the doctor’s name?



	G:	I don’t remember the doctor’s name. My mother did tell me, but I could go find that out from my aunt. My aunt is eighty years old and she remembers everything, she has a fantastic memory.

	W:	What is her name?



	G:	Her name is Lilly B. Shanks. W:	And where does she live?

	G:	She lives in Eatonville, on Washington Street.



	W:	For those who might not be familiar with Eatonville, could you describe where in relation to Winter Park Eatonville is?

	G:	Eatonville is adjacent to Winter Park, actually, because—I will say approximately two miles’ distance from this part of Winter Park, anyways. Winter Park has a section that goes west from 1792, and it actually connects to Eatonville. It’s called Margaret Square.

	W:	Who are your mother and father?



	G:	My father was Arthur Leland Glover, and my mother was Thelma Shanks. She didn’t have a middle name.

	W:	My mother’s also called Thelma. Her name’s Margaret, but all of our family in North Carolina calls her Thelma. Do you recall your parents’ dates of birth?





	G:	No, I don’t. My mother is eighty-three years old, she’s sixteen years older than I am. My father was killed in Eatonville when I was fourteen years old.

	W:	I’m very sorry to hear that.



	G:	And I was the oldest child. There were eight of us, I have seven siblings. There were four boys and four girls.

	W:	Could you tell the names of your brothers and sisters from oldest to youngest, please?

	G:	Yes, I have a brother that’s a year younger than I am, his name is Howard Leland Glover. I have a brother that’s three years younger than I am. His name is Walter Lewis Glover. And then I have a sister; now, should I be using my sister’s married name now?

	W:	If you choose to, however you’d like to relate your story. You can just give their first names if you’d like.

	G:	Okay. I have a sister, Janelle, and her last name now is Bronson. She’s an attorney and lives over in Windermere, and she’s married to a judge. Actually he recently retired, a recently retired judge, Orange County judge, Theotis Bronson. And I have another sister a year younger than Janelle, her name is Rosemary Webb, she has a daycare in Orlando. Then I have another sister after her, who is Juanita. She also is an attorney. And after her, I had another sister, she was named after my mother. Her name is Thelma. And the last sibling is Jerome Warren Glover. He is the baby of the family, and I’d say he’s had the most difficult time. He got addicted to crack cocaine when he was probably nineteen years old, and he’s been in one recovery program after another.





	W:	Are you the eldest? G:	I’m the eldest.

	W:	So you feel a great deal of responsibility for your brothers and sisters.



	G:	I used to, extremely, when we were in school, yes. Especially the loss of my father at age fourteen, my youngest brother was only six months old at the time, and he doesn’t even have a memory of my father.

	W:	I know it’s probably extremely painful to go back, but as you’ve mentioned it, I would like to explore about your father’s death a little bit. You didn’t say he died, you said he was killed. So, there’s a specific incident involved. Would it be all right to share that incident?

	G:	Sure. Sure. My father was killed, he got into an argument in a bar in Eatonville on a Friday night. I remember that, it was on a Friday night. My father and I were very, very close. He always told me to understand that he had to be tough on me because I had all these sisters and brothers and, you know, he had to keep me in line so that they could see a pattern, so that they would have a role model. He told me that. And he told me that he wanted all his children to be sure to finish high school. And I was in eighth grade when he was killed, but I remembered that, and I did everything I could to make sure that everybody, all of my siblings did finish high school. And we all graduated.

	W:	It must have been difficult financially for your family after your dad passed away. Did you end up not going to school for a while and taking on a job, or were you able to continue with your studies and still help guide the family?





	G:	Well, what happened was—and at the time I didn’t realize it—I had an uncle who worked in the orange groves. That was one of the main sources of employment for a lot of African American people back in those days.

	W:	What was his name?



	G:	His name was Wilfred Wells. And he got me a job. My father was killed, I don’t remember the exact month, but it was late winter, because I had gone to a football game, and it was on a Friday night. And it happened later that Friday night, because I awoke that Saturday morning to sheriff’s officers in my living room interviewing my mother. But anyways, my uncle got a job for me. And I started working that summer, and they paid me pretty much the same wages that they paid all the adult males. And I think that was because they knew my family situation, so I had the same check that an adult male would have, and I brought it home every week to my mom. And after that, I worked after school at a restaurant, it was called the Villanova, over on 1792. I worked in the evenings parking cars. So, we did all right. And then, my mother always had a job, she was always employed anyways. She worked at a graduation supply business, called Bob’s Cap and Gowns, and when I got to be seventeen, I had an operator’s driver’s license and they let me be the delivery person. So you know, people I guess used to find ways to help needy families, because during those times there was no food stamps, no welfare. And my mother had eight children to raise on her income, you know. It was, I’m sure, pretty difficult.

	W:	But with the oldest son willing to work, it helped.



	G:	Yes. And it also I think provided an inspiration for my siblings to work as well.





	W:	Now, you and your mom were working to provide for the family. What types of chores did your brothers and sisters take on to help around the house?

	G:	Well, my sisters learned to cook, they’re all excellent cooks now. My brothers, my one brother started cutting hair. He had a pair of clippers, I don’t know where he got them, but on Saturdays, he would be cutting men’s hair and boys’ from the community. He did well. Because back in those days, if you didn’t really get out and find a way to earn some money, you wouldn’t have any. Today, it’s different. People get allowances and stuff like that. I never got an allowance. Well, not after my father; everything I ever got after that I had to work for.

	W:	So from fourteen until you retired, you were always working. G:	I’m still working.

	W:	Still working? What’s your current career?



	G:	Well, I work for a roofing company, Neth and Son Roofing Company in Orlando. W:	And what do you do there?

	G:	I’m a roofer.



	W:	Could you describe, for those that might not know about carpentry or woodwork, what is it that a roofer does?

	G:	Well, it’s a commercial roofing company. So, roofs only last in Florida, I would say on the average of fifteen years, and you got to rip them off and put on new roofs. A lot of work is at Disney World. Right now, I’m working at Disney World at night for Neth and Son Roofing Company.

	W:	Can we go back to your earliest memory of education? What is the earliest memory you have, either informally or formally in a school?





	G:		My earliest memory is, I started school, there was a school right next door to this facility, right across the street. And it was Hannibal Square Elementary School. I started first grade, I don’t remember the year; I had to wait. You know, a lot kids start school at six, depending on when your birthday comes. But I had to wait until the next year. But I started first grade right over here in this elementary school, Hannibal Square, and it was from first to sixth grades. And from six to twelfth, you would go to Hungerford High School over in Eatonville, had a bus that would transport us.

	W:	Now, this was back when the schools were segregated. So all the teachers and all the students looked like you.

	G:	Yes, everybody was Black. W:	Who was the principal?

	G:	Mrs. Reed was the principal when I was at Hannibal.



	W:	Okay, now you answered that really quickly. So, what was it about Mrs. Reed that makes her so memorable?

	G:	Well, Mrs. Reed was like a fixture in the community. She had been—I don’t know when she started there, but when I started my first grade, she was there, and when I went on to high school she was there. I’m not really sure at what point she retired, but Mrs. Reed was there until—almost until they tore it down. Now, they did build a new school; it was called Webster, and it’s now a trade school of some sort. It’s still here, still in existence. And what they did, they kept this school and they divided the population. Everybody from Canton Street back to





Fairbanks would go to Hannibal. And everybody on the other side, on the north side of Canton, would go to Webster, which was the new school.

	W:	Who was your favorite teacher in elementary school?



	G:	In elementary school, my favorite teacher Mrs. Wright. She lives in Orlando. W:	And what grade and what subject did she teach?

	G:	She taught art. And she would take me home with her on the weekends, I guess because I came from such a large family. But she took me home with her on the weekends, and she had a much nicer house than I was accustomed to. And I don’t know what it was about her that, you know, she was just a really special person. She cared so much about all of the kids, and it was just like she was a mom that everybody wanted to have.

	W:	Did she teach a particular grade, or she taught art for the whole school? G:	She taught art for the whole school.

	W:	And when Mrs. Wright—when you left elementary school, did you maintain contact with her as well?

	G:	No I didn’t. I did not. I guess if I had an opportunity, if I could go back and do it over again, I definitely would. I didn’t.

	W:	So, you graduated in sixth grade. Were you involved in any particular clubs or organizations that you remember, plays, or student government, or safety patrol or anything like that in elementary school?

	G:	I was safety patrol. I used to have a white hard hat, and it had a belt that went across here. And at first I was just a safety patrol, it was give you a corner to stand on, to monitor, as the kids came to school in the mornings. And when the





first bell would ring, we would leave and come to class like all the other students. And also, as a safety patrol officer, they would have a contest and they would send two representatives to Washington DC every year, annually. And we would go by train. So I was fortunate enough to make that trip twice. I became the captain by the time I graduated elementary school.

W:  That type of a trip must have really built up your opportunity for leadership, and for seeing the nation’s capital. What do you recall the most about those trips to Washington DC?

G:  Well, what I recall the most is, what’s most memorable for me is going inside the White House. It was just an amazement to me that it was so large, and it was so elegant. I wasn’t used to anything like that.

W:   Do you recall who the president was when you went?



	G:	I don’t recall. Of course, we never got a chance to actually meet with the president, but we had tours, and we went to the Washington Monument, the Lincoln Memorial, went to the Pentagon. We went to the zoo in Washington. And it was amazing, because the zoo that I had ever seen was in Sanford, and it was—it paled in comparison to the zoo in Washington, DC. I understand that they have a zoo in, I think it’s, what, San Diego? That’s supposed to be better than that. But as a child, I was just tremendously impressed. Oh yeah, and the Smithsonian. We got to tour the Smithsonian Institute.

	W:	And what do you recall about that?



	G	I remember the Declaration of Independence. You know, because we had studied it and everything. And it was just, it made me feel very privileged and





special to be able to stand there and be actually inches away from the Declaration of Independence.

	W:	Do you still today remain in contact with any of your any of your safety patrol or elementary school buddies?

	G:	Some of my elementary school buddies, yes. You know, for whatever reason, that’s not something that’s come up in conversation much, is the safety patrol. I don’t even think they even do that anymore. Doesn’t seem it. Maybe they do.

	W:	Oh, I was safety patrol. And I went to Washington.



	G:	Is that right? Oh, they still did that. They have that program in place. W:	Yes sir, they still have it now.

	G:	Wow, that’s amazing. At my children’s school, I never heard mention of it.



	W:	That’s unfortunate. It was a really good leadership opportunity, I was so glad to get to go, like you, to go to Washington, DC.

	G:	Did you still do it by train?



W:  Yes, sir. From West Palm Beach, we took the train, went to Washington, DC, and came back.

G:  Wow. You know, the train ride was very interesting as well. And actually, the farthest I had gone from Winter Park, Florida, before that trip, was to Tampa. That’s as far as I ever traveled.

W:  So that’s the longest trip you’d taken as well. As you think back on your life from just that one wee little experience, how did it help define your leadership? What is your definition of leadership?





	G:	My definition of leadership would be an individual who has a mindset that they would be making administrative decisions for a group of people. That’s my definition of leadership.

	W:	Who are the leaders that you know and admire?



	G:	Right now? Well, first of all, it would be President Obama. And secondly, I would think that my pastor is a good example of a leader.

	W:	What is his or her name? G:	His name is Dawkins.

	W:	Pastor Dawkins. What is it about President Obama and Pastor Dawkins that have you mention them in the same breath in defining leadership?

	G:	Well, a person who leads an organization or a group of people is the person who, is in my mind, in charge of the direction that the organization or the group will take. And they make decisions that would guide the program. And so I think that President Obama is first of all the commander-in-chief, and then the next thing is, I think that he sets an example of a person who really tries to make decisions that are in the best interest of all the people, as opposed to a fraction of the people. That’s my personal opinion.

	W:	And your pastor?



	G:	And my pastor is, he is someone who tries to find ways that the church will feed the people of the community who are poor, the elderly people, and lend guidance to people who have stressful situations going on in their household. And he’s just consistent and even-handed in selecting anybody for any kind of benefits that the church might provide.





	W:	Without embarrassing you, but just to get a candid answer if you feel like giving it, do you consider yourself a leader? And if so, why?

	G:	Sometimes, I try to be somewhat of a leader. When I was in high school, in my senior class I was president of the student council—we had something called the student council. I don’t if they still have student government, but I was president, so. And it was, you were selected through a campaign that we would put on, and on student government day, which we had every year, I was appointed to be the principal of Hungerford High School, which I thought was the ultimate position of leadership in a high school senior class. And also, I was the president of the band association, I was in the marching band. I was, at one time, the president of the yearbook committee. Our yearbooks only came out periodically; I want to say it was every two years school yearbooks came out. But anyways, in my senior year I was president of the yearbook committee.

	W:	What instrument did you play in the band? G:	I played slide trombone.

	W:	And what was it about the trombone that caught your attention, and got you to put in the study and the time to do that well enough to be in the marching band?

	G:	Well, I actually had a music teacher who was the band director. And he somewhat solicited me to join the marching band, and he suggested the trombone.

	W:	What was his name?



	G:	His name was William Boyd. And, you know, for me, music was not my real passion, but I really enjoyed the camaraderie and the opportunity to perform in





parades here in Winter Park. We use do have an annual Christmas parade— well, we still have the annual Christmas parade—and our band was always participating. So. And the trombone, when we lined our band up, we were on the front line of the band. We were behind the majorettes. The majorettes of course, preceded the band, but we were in the front line after that.

	W:	I’m glad you mentioned high school. High school in your era of going to school was from seventh to twelfth grade, so you went for all that time in between. First, could you please say again and spell the name of your high school?

	G:	My high school was Hungerford, H-U-N-G-E-R-F-O-R-D, Hungerford High School. It later became, and is currently—well, actually it’s not a school anymore, it’s not a functioning school, but it later became Wymore Tech. And I was fortunate enough to come back and teach a year at Wymore Tech. And I had my brother, my youngest brother, in my class. I taught masonry.

	W:	That must have been tough to have your brother in your class.



	G:	No, he was pretty congenial. And my class, my whole class—you know, I had a group of guys that would come in in different sessions. And everybody—it was small classes, first of all, because I was teaching masonry and there weren’t a lot of people that that aspired to be hard-working men. But I would have I think on an average of ten. Ten students. But that was back in 1974.

	W:	What are some of the principles that you had to teach for teaching masonry?



What should a student have to understand in order to be able to learn the basic idea and to excel?





	G:	Well, it would start out with understanding that, you know, the tools of the trade. And it did take some training to acquire the skill of taking the mortar and being able to spread it on the blocks. Because the average time a person, not being of that trade, when you scoop the mud up on the trowel to turn it over, it falls off. So you had to really practice to do that. Had some really good students. I remember one student in particular, Frank Grant, he still resides in Eatonville and has his own business.

	W:	Mason?



	G:	No, he wasn’t in masonry. That’s a tough business anymore. It’s getting difficult, you know? We have an influx of people that come in, and they’ve kind of taken over that field.

	W:	Tend to do it for less, or just more skill, more people willing to do it?



	G:	They work for less. When I had my business, my masonry business in operation when the construction industry was booming, residential and commercial, I had about—approximately I kept a crew of like ten men. I paid masons two hundred dollars a day, and I paid the laborers a hundred and fifty dollars a day. And it was set up on a daily basis, more or less. Now, they had masons will they built the arena—the new arena in Orlando—they had masons I’m told that were paid ten dollars and fifty cents an hour. That’s a big decrease in pay. So, that business kind of went away for us.

	W:	Being involved in roofing, you’re still in construction, so do you miss it? Or do you still feel that because you’re involved in the industry, that everything is working out?





	G:	I do miss it, because I operated my own business here in Winter Park for eighteen years, and it’s a lot different when you work in another business on an hourly basis. It’s really a step back to be the proprietor, and then go to an hourly employee. But I started with this roofing company three years ago, and it’s a result, actually, of some mismanagement of my finances. I have a grandchild that got into trouble, and it kind of drained my wife’s and our savings. And one of my sons got in trouble with the law, so each time something happened like that, it drained our resources, to the point that I put a mortgage on my house. And my mortgage is like twelve hundred dollars a month. And so, you know, I still need to work, needless to say.

	W:	Back to high school for a moment: when you ended up being the president of the student council, and being in charge of the band, and principal for a day, that must have been really exciting. Who was your high school principal?

	G:	Our principal was Mr. Franklin M. Otey. I’m sure there’s probably pictures in here someplace of Mr. Otey. I’d be surprised if there aren’t.

	W:	What do you remember on Mr. Otey?



	G:	Well, I remember that Mr. Otey was the principal, but his wife worked there, too.



She was a guidance counselor. And she actually ran the school. He had the position, but she was the real administrator.

	W:	So he was the vice principal? [Laughter]



	G:	No, he held the position of principal, but she called the shots. I remember that.



But they were very big on discipline. All of the students, you had to have a clean- shaven face, you had to have a neat haircut, you had to have your shoes shined.





I’m serious, this was a requirement. Your shoes had to be shined on a daily basis. You had to have a crease in your pants, you had to have your shirt inside your pants, and if you were at school and your shirt was not inside your belt, you were in trouble. They were very disciplined.

	W:	And I guess equal requirements for the girls? Skirts a certain length?



	G:	Yes, you couldn’t wear a skirt that was above your knee. And you couldn’t wear pants, and you couldn’t wear shorts. They had a dress code in place.

	W:	Did you have dances and socials?



	G:	Yes, we did. And everybody had a curfew back in those days. W:	What time was the curfew?

	G:	Twelve o’clock, on weekend nights on Friday and Saturday. In the house, not on the way. And you had to be in by the time the streetlights came on during the week, weekdays. You always had to be in the house when the streetlights came on.

	W:	What were your favorite subjects when you were in high school? G:	In high school, my favorite subject was math.

	W:	Why math?



G:  I don’t know, especially, probably, I always thought I was pretty good at math. That was one of my better subjects. But it’s been a long time. I graduated high school in 1965.

W:  Was there a particular teacher that inspired you or gave you good direction in mathematics that you recall today?





	G:	I had, yeah, there was Mr. Majors. He’s since passed away. Yes, he was very articulate and very forceful. He was very short in stature, but I guess he felt the need to be assertive because of his small stature. Now that I look back on it, that’s what I think. But the most impressive figure from high school as a teacher was the basketball coach, Mr. Charles Miller. And I still see him on occasion. He was inspirational like a father for me, since I lost my father, you know. But he was very disciplined and strict as well. But I attribute any successes that I may have had to him, I really do. When I reflect, Mr. Miller was very inspirational.

	W:	Did you play basketball?



	G:	No, my mother didn’t let me play basketball. She confined me to the band. I wanted to play basketball. I had height and athleticism as well. I played basketball you know, after school hours and such, but I never played organized sports in high school. I had her come to a basketball game, which was a big rival game between Jones High School from Orlando and Hungerford. And the game got very physical, and one of the players got injured. He fell, and he had a broken place on someplace on his head, as I remember. And that was the night my mom was there to see the sport. And she was like—.

	W:	You didn’t get to play basketball. [Laughter] G:	No, I didn’t get to play basketball.

	W:	Did you all win the game?



	G:	Yeah, we won the game. We always had a really—our school was only, if I remember right, it was like a C school, and Jones High at that time was a AA or AAA school. They were much, population-wise, they were a much larger school





than we were. But we always had a basketball team that was just as good or better.

	W:	How about football? Not so much?



	G:	Yes, football, too. We always had a really good football team. We were a much smaller school. And we were in a different conference. In other words, it wasn’t a conference game for them, nor us, but it was always a big rivalry, an annual rivalry.

	W:	Were you in the Big Nine, out of one of those, or there was a Big Nine North, Big Nine South. Or a different conference? Do you recall the name of your conference?

	G:	No, I don’t recall the name of the conference.



	W:	Do you recall the schools that associated with your conference?



	G:	Yes, there was Phyllis Wheatley over in Apopka, there was Crooms Academy in Sanford, there was Cocoa High School in Brevard County, and Jones High School from Orlando, and Wildwood. I don’t remember—oh, yeah, and there was Howard High School from Ocala.

	W:	Okay, excellent. Do you recall your football coach’s name? G:	Mr. Knoblauch. Yeah, he’s since passed away.

	W:	Is there any other teacher from your high school who you recall as having a significant impact, or even just an instant that you remember, or an example of something that happened in high school that was memorable because of that teacher?





	G:	Well, I remember, for me again, the most outstanding teacher was Mr. Miller.



Every time I see him, you know, because he was a guy who was very soft- spoken, and he was the basketball coach. He was very soft-spoken. But he was very disciplined, and he was very strict. And he just had a way about him. If any of the guys got out of line, the teachers would always say, “I’m going to have Mr. Miller come and get you.” And people would settle right down. There was a teacher, Mrs. Baldwin, she again was an English teacher. She was very soft- spoken as well. But I guess the school was orientated toward discipline. And I think that’s what we needed.

	W:	Do you feel that’s different than what exists now, and was that an advantage in some way that you had that?

	G:	Very different. They didn’t expel you from school. You got in trouble—well, I won’t say they didn’t, I mean you would have to do something that was unlawful, pretty much. You know, they had punishments that they would give you at school. And one of the punishments was to go out and dig up a tree stump. They cut down trees—we built our own football field while I was at Hungerford. And the stadium is still there, it’s at Wymore, and it’s still used today. I drive down Wymore Road in the evening sometimes and look out there, and we had the fund raisers that we put on and stuff. Because it was funded, the construction originally of the field was funded a hundred percent by the people of the community.

	W:	And that has lasted.



	G:	And still there. And people still use the facility, even at night. You drive along there sometimes and you see—it’s not a stadium, but, well, I mean it’s not like





the Citrus Bowl or something like what you have at UCF. But it does serve a lot of, I guess, Pop Warner football teams, and soccer teams, even today. But we, for many years or so, we worked to build it. We had to cut down the trees—we had the land, but it had pine trees growing on it. And that would be one of the punishments that would be given to people who got out of line. You had to work on digging out one of these tree stumps by hand, with a shovel and an axe. So over a three-year period, you know, a lot of tree stumps got taken out. And you had to do it, and you still had to do your work.

	W:	What do you remember about your graduation year? Twelfth grade, and the anticipation of leaving the school. What was that like?

	G:	For me, my senior year was very good. I enjoyed it a lot. First of all, I was able to be elected president of student council. I was still in the band, I was a senior in the band, and the senior members of the band, we had the best seats on the bus when we traveled. And my senior year, as I was president of the student council, I always wore a dress shirt and a tie. And lots of times, I would wear a suit. So, I felt I was a leader and I had to conduct myself—grade-wise, I was on the honor roll and in the honor society, and I had to carry myself in the manner that would be exemplary, because of the position that I held.

	W:	Did you date in high school?



	G:	I did. I’m married to my girlfriend of high school.



	W:	I was going to ask you that! What is her name, and where and how did you meet?





	W:	Her maiden name was Sally Jones, she’s Sally Glover now. She was a grade behind me; she was a junior and I was a senior. We’ve been married now forty- five years, and she lived about, I want to say maybe—she lived on Swope, which was maybe two blocks from my house, from where we live now. And she, too, was from a large family.

	W:	So how did you notice each other in school? Did you go to school from first grade to twelfth grade with each other, or did you meet in high school?

	G:	No I never knew her until, I want to say, eleventh grade. We just became friends at school. And we rode the bus together, because there was a bus that went from Winter Park to Hungerford. So we rode the bus together, and we started dating, and we’re still together.

	W:	Nature took its course. So, you graduated. What did you do after you graduated? G:	After I graduated high school I went away to Central Florida Community College.

It was a two-year program there in technical construction. And I chose masonry as a major. I was inspired to—they had a renovation project going on in my senior year, and I was sitting in class one day and I was watching brick masons. I was watching the way they handled their tools, and I was just impressed by the amount of progress that they were able to make. And I just decided when I was a senior in high school that was what I wanted to do.

	W:	So what took you to CFCC?



	G:	I was given an academic scholarship, and I went there. It was a community college, it was a two-year program, and after I got my AA there, I came back and





went into the apprenticeship program, masonry apprenticeship program. So since I had my foundation already, they started me as a third-year apprentice.

	W:	Were you associated with a union? G:	Yes, I was in a union.

	W:	And which union was that? G:	Local 1765.

	W:	Mason work?



	G:	Originally, I went into carpentry. And I became a journeyman carpenter, but I still had my heart set on being a mason. So after work got a bit slow, I went from carpentry and I did a masonry apprenticeship. The masonry union wasn’t strong here. But you know, I worked at Disney World, when they were constructing Disney World, for maybe two years. When it opened, I went to work for myself.

	W:	Are involved or have you ever been involved in any fraternal or other organizations, social organizations?

	G:	No, I haven’t that I can think of right now. I played in basketball in a men’s league that, we used to play right across the street here.

	W:	Where did your teammates come from, were they guys you just picked up with, or found some guys and said “We going have a squad?”

	G:	Right, just guys from my community. I used to have a lot of trophies, too, a lot of basketball trophies. That would be your prize at the end of the season. There was a guy from my high school, he was captain, I think, of the basketball team when we were in high school. He was a year behind me, but he was on my team, and then—his name is Willie Richardson. He teaches—I think he still teaches, I





don’t know if he’s retired yet—over in Seminole County, high school. Lake Brantley, I think that’s where he teaches. And I think he was the basketball coach at Oviedo High School at one time. He was a year behind me, but we were good friends in high school.

	W:	So you started your career, you’re working as an apprentice in carpentry. How and when did you facilitate getting married and starting a family?

	G:	My wife and I were dating, and I was working in Miami, and I don’t remember the—it was in the carpenters’ union, but I don’t remember the number of the union, because I’d been away from the union a long time. They don’t have a lot of work. But my wife got pregnant when I was working there, so we got married.

	W:	And how many children? G:	Three.

	W:	Could you mention them from oldest to youngest, please?



	G:	My daughter, LaShaun Yvette, is the oldest child, she’s forty-three. My son, Arthur Lorenzo Glover, he’s the fourth, is the second-oldest. And I have a son, Eric Wesley, who is our third child.

	W:	And you have grandchildren, from your three children. G:	Yes. Yes, I have grandchildren.

	W:	Excellent, excellent. So you got married, you were working in Miami. How did you—was this a traditional courtship, did you have to go and ask your wife’s father for permission? How did all of that work, get up the courage to ask her to marry you, what was that process like?





	G:	Well, actually, to—if I’m being honest, like I said, I was away working in Miami.



And my wife—well, she wasn’t my wife at the time; she got pregnant, to be honest. And so it was, the honorable—you know, I felt, we felt that, “Hey, it’s time to get married.” So, we got married.

	W:	And you love each other.



	G:	Yes, we’ve been together approximately forty-five years. W:	Where were you married?

	G:	We went to Georgia, so we could get married in one day. And I don’t remember, it was at a justice of the peace in Georgia, someplace in Valdosta, Georgia.

Because you could get married the same day. And I don’t think that was the case here in Florida at the time.

	W:	You mentioned it was the honorable thing to do, and of course times have changed, and there are more single-parent families. And those are great families and everything as well, but I’m just curious: how do you feel about the difference in society from the time when you and your wife felt it’s the honorable thing to go ahead and get married because of the child, whereas today that doesn’t happen as much? How do you interpret that change in how this society is?

	G:	Well I don’t think it’s had a positive impact on African American people. The single family household, it seems, is more common than the husband, wife, and children. That’s the way it seems. And I think it’s had a negative impact on the way that the children of single family households function in life, I really do.

Overall, I think it’s had a negative impact.





	W:	As a community person who takes a leadership—and I think it’s fair to define you as a community leader, with you being here today and speaking with us in this project, and we thank you. What is your opinion on the state of Black America, when you sit in your own community and you know that just a few blocks from here across the street the school was once African American, there were businesses, all those things have changed? What do you see as going on in Black America today with these changes?

	G:	Well, the city of Winter Park has definitely come a long ways. When I was a child—and as I stated earlier, my house is in the same place that I was born, and when I built my new house. I situated my bedroom, that I lay down and go to sleep in every night; that’s where I came into the world. Right in the same spot.

But when I was a child, Virginia Avenue—which is two blocks from where we are sitting now—was the divide between White Winter Park and the African American community. I remember that the pavement on the streets ended at Virginia, and then we had all dirt streets on the Black side of town. As a child coming up, we used to get all the old books, the books that were obsolete. When they got the new books at the White school, which was Winter Park High School, they gave us all the old books. And, you know, it didn’t seem odd—now maybe, probably, now I’m sure the principal and the teachers saw the disparity. But you know, as a child, that was just the way it was. It was acceptable. I never had a book when I was going to school that I can remember that was not already—in the part where you write your name, when it’s issued to you? It was always already filled out.

Other people’s names. And when I went on the truck to bring the books to our





school, I had a chance to look into the gym at Winter Park High School. And they had a lot of equipment that I had only seen and heard about. I mean, I had only seen in pictures. And I heard about in the gym, you know, you would have ropes to climb on and such? We had just the basics, we had softballs, volleyballs, basketballs; just the basics. They had a pool; we didn’t have a swim team or anything like that, we didn’t have a pool. So I did feel a bit underprivileged from having seen that, if you follow what I’m saying. And as I reflect on it now, I felt like—but at the time, I didn’t know anything else. But it’s come full circle more or less, because my children went to the same school that I’m making reference to, Winter Park High School. That’s where they went to school. So they stayed in the same classrooms as everybody else. We here in Winter Park, our first Black officer, police officer was walking the beat. He was the only member of the Winter Park police department that didn’t have a police car. He was on foot. And his authority only extended to African American people. He could not, he didn’t have any authority over the White citizenry of Winter Park. But this same officer, as time passed, became—his name was Fields—he became Sergeant and then Lieutenant Fields. So like I said, things changed a lot. He became an officer with the Winter Park Police Department.

	W:	Do you think that educationally, that things have gotten better? You mentioned that your kids went to the same high school. But with the way the system works today, are you confident that all kids are being treated basically the same and given the opportunities to advance?





	G:	I would say yes, pretty much. Because you sit in the same classrooms. You have to apply yourself. Now I don’t know how the instructors deal with the individual students, you know? But I mean, at least they don’t get the old books. They get the same books that everybody else gets now. We use to get all of the obsolete books. When they got new books, they would get rid of the books, that edition, and then we would get those books at our school. So when I went away to college, it was difficult; that’s when I realized the disparity. Because I was in the classrooms with White students. And before that, I’d never been in classrooms with White students. So I realized that the educational background that they had was superior to what I had received in high school, so I had to work twice as hard to keep up.

	W:	I’d like to take you back to maybe some observations of some other things you may have noticed disparity-wise; in particular mentioning, because what happened to your father being lost early on—were you aware of, because of the segregation and the way the laws were when you were younger, of differences between people or things that may have happened to people, because you know, they were in the wrong place at the wrong time? Maybe in a White area being Black, or not being given equal treatment at a store, or at a bank with a bank loan, or anything like that that might relate to the difference between how we have integration now and how prior we did not have integration? Were there things that stick out in your mind?

	G:	Well, right off the top, I would say I remember when you would go into a store, they would have a drinking fountain that would say “White” and “Colored.” And





the water in the Colored drinking fountain was just regular tap water, and the water that came from the fountain that said “White only,” you know, it had cold water in it. So if nobody was looking, when I went to the drinking fountain, I’d look around like this, and I’d get some cold water to drink. That’s the one thing off the top that I remember. Now like I said, the police officer that we had in our community did not have any authority over White people. So when a White person was intoxicated, they would, you know, if they were raising sand or something, they’d tell him right in front of everybody, “You don’t have no authority over me.” You know, stuff like that, and I thought that was kind of shameful. I remember as a child here in Winter Park, I went to work. And on the way home, because I was working for a White lady off of—what’s that street called?— Fletcher Place, that runs off of Aloma, and it’s probably three or four blocks from Lakemont. I don’t if you know where Lakemont is, but the hospital, Winter Park Hospital, is on Lakemont Avenue. So it’s a pretty good piece. But anyways, I went over there to pull weeds from her yard. And on the way home, I stopped downtown at Park Avenue. There was a drugstore there that had a lunch counter, and it was in the summer months, and I must’ve been ten years old or so. I stopped and I went to the counter, and I ordered a Coke. So, there was a young lady working there, and she brought me a Coke. And she was probably just in a summer job, too, I would think, because she was very young. So as I was drinking my Coke, the manager or the owner, proprietor, he came from someplace in the back and he saw me at the lunch counter with a Coke. And he came around the—he was irate! And he picked me up—put his thumbs in my





ears, and picked me up by my ears—and carried me to the front door and threw me out on the sidewalk. He brought my glass, and he broke it, because I drank from it. And I didn’t even know what I had done. So I went home and I told my mother, and she begged me, pleaded with me not to tell my father—which I never did. So, you know. That’s one of the things that I remember that I thought was a disparity. Well, I’m sure was it was a disparity. Because like I said, I was maybe nine or ten years old, and I didn’t even know what I had done. And I guess the girl didn’t know any better than to serve me; I’m sure it must’ve been policy that it was for White only. And I had inadvertently, unknowingly, stepped over that boundary. And also, I remember that they had a restaurant, it was called the Golden Point. It was the first fast food restaurant that I’m aware of in this area. And we used to go there, and we had to go to the back door. And we would knock to the kitchen if we wanted to order something. We couldn’t go inside. I remember that. And we would place our order, and they would prepare it, and bring it to the back door, and we would take it, and—they had a counter inside. And you could see in the glass, people would be sitting there. But anyways, that’s the way we would get our, whatever we would purchase from the fast food restaurants. You had to go to the back door and knock.

	W:	As you got older, certainly probably in the early [19]60s, you must have been aware of the Freedom Riders, and some of the things that were changing and taking place. What type of thoughts did you and your family have about those changes as they were taking place, when you saw those early shots on television?





	G:	Right, well, you know what? Here in Winter Park, I don’t remember there ever being any demonstrations or anything like that. I saw it on TV at night, you know; it would come on the news, they would put dogs on people, and they would put firehoses on people. I watched all of that from the television, I don’t remember there ever being any demonstrations here at all. I never was aware of any.

	W:	Were there any acts of violence against anyone because of color that the community knew about and maybe would respond to?

	G:	No, not really. From time to time, the Ku Klux Klan would burn a cross, like, across from my school. Like, I remember they had a cross burning once.

	W:	Across from the school, across the street, right here? G:	Yes, right over here.

	W:	So, you saw a cross burning?



	G:	Yes, but I didn’t see who made the fire or anything like that. You know, I heard about it, they say, “There’s a cross burning.” I went down, I took a look at it. I mean, you know. That’s been a long time ago. And I don’t even know what it was about, because I never saw a Klan member, like in white sheets and all that kind of stuff. I never seen that.

	W:	How did you hear about that incident of the cross burning? Did that come through the grapevine?

	G:	Yes, people, you know, just talking.



	W:	Do you remember feeling any particular way when you saw it or heard about it? G:	No, I haven’t ever really experienced much in the way of like fear of the Ku Klux Klan or anything like that. Police department used to be very prejudiced, I would





think, you know, because at a point—I don’t remember what my age was, but I was an adult, a young adult—I had a big afro. And this was during the time when the athletes, I think in Germany, in the Olympics, they—

	W:	1968, Mexico City.



G:  Oh, was it Mexico City? They raised their fists, the Black power fists. Yeah. And so, I had a big afro. I used to wear a big afro. And really it was not in relations to that, it was just the style, it was the trend.

W:   It’s a “natural.” [Laughter]



	G:	Yeah, that’s what we used to call it, yeah. We’d get it all plaited up, and I’d take my hand—I had big hair, big hairdo. Like, this big, no joke. And, but anyways, I’d be driving my car, and the police would stop me all the time! And they put the blue lights on, pull me over the side of the road, and come up to the car, and they wanted to look inside my car. And I’d say, “Why you stopping me?” “Because you fit the description of somebody that just did this, and somebody that just did that.” And this would happen, like, twice a week for a long time. So I finally just cut my hair; I figured out—because even when I was just driving down the road, if I passed a police car, they would always look real hard at me. They would peer in. So I finally figured out it had to do with my big afro. You know, that’s when the Black Panthers were vibrant and in the news, so I eventually cut my hair, so that I didn’t look like somebody who would be associated with that particular element.

	W:	How did that make you feel to have to make those changes to not be harassed by the police?





	G:	How did it make me feel? I really used to take all that kind of stuff in stride, it was just the way it was, you know? It seemed to me growing up here in Winter Park, it’s like everybody knew their place. So like I said, we never had any demonstrations that I can recall in Winter Park. Everybody just kind of knew their place. And everybody was, we all got along. Very rarely did we have any conflicts. It was just the way it was. You kind of accepted that. I remember one time, I was out walking when I was young kid—I have three brothers that I was telling you about earlier. And police, a Winter Park police officer came up, and he wanted to know what we—it was about dark, we were going home. And we must have been, as I recall, in the area of Virginia. That was the dividing line. And he wanted to know why we were out and what we were doing. And I know, I remember he called in on his radio, and he said, “I got three niggers over here.” You know, and he asked us our name, and we told him our name, and such.

	W:	Did you know his name? G:	No.

	W:	Did you know the name of the chief of police? G:	Yes, his name was Buchanan.

	W:	This knowing of one’s place, how did that get transferred or communicated? I can understand Virginia ended, and it wasn’t paved, so you know not to go past this spot, but did you have conversations with family, or friends, or ministers? How did people know the way to act to avoid an unpleasant situation? How was that communicated to you?





G:   Well, through my mother. You know, she didn’t want any troubles. And we, when I was twelve years old, my father, we moved out of Winter Park and moved over to Eatonville. And we stayed there until I went away to college and everything.

But my great-grandmother, my father’s mother, still had the property where my house is now. And she always wanted me to have my house there. So there was an old house there. Actually, she used to have a store where my house is. So, in trying to meet her wishes, I went into the construction industry, and I was able to build my own house. So I tore down the old house, because it was falling down anyways, and I built my house that I live in now.

	W:	Could we go back for a second to your family since you mentioned your father’s mother. Your dad’s people, who were his mom and dad?

	G:	I knew my dad’s mother, her name was Emma. And she and my grandfather, my dad’s dad, they were divorced before I was born. And my dad had two brothers that were half-brothers, they were twins: Warren and Daniel Lamont. Now I never knew my dad’s dad, he had passed away long before I was ever born. But his name was Arthur Leland Glover. And there was a lumber company, called Kumber Lumber Company, and this man must have been about close to eighty years old.

	W:	Kumber Lumber. C-U-M—



	G:	No, Kumber with a K. Kumber Lumber. And they were on Pennsylvania, right across the railroad tracks. And I used to go in there—because I did construction pretty much all my life—and I would go in there to buy materials. And once he





knew what my name was, he said, “Your grandfather used to work here.” And he would tell me different little stories about my grandfather; I never knew him.

	W:	This a Black man or White man? G:	He was a White man.

	W:	And he was cordial with you, he was friendly.



	G:	Yes, very much so. Because my grandfather used to work for him. But I don’t know a lot about my dad’s dad. I never met him, of course, because he was deceased before I was born. And when I was a child, before my father was killed, he was I thought the greatest person I ever knew, my father was. And my father had—I have his discharge papers, his honorable discharge from World War II, when he was in the United States Army. And it says, “Arthur L. Glover, 526 Garfield Avenue,” which is my address today. 1945. So, that’s heartwarming for me, you know? Sometimes I just take it out just to look at it. I used to have—but as a child I didn’t have enough maturity to retain it—but I had his helmet that he wore when he was in World War II. And I used to have his rifle. He brought that home from World War II. But there again, my maturity level was not developed enough that I kept them. But I used to have them, I remember having them, because they were in the house.

	W:	Do you know where your dad served, what parts of Europe or the Pacific that he was in, that he saw when he fought?

	G:	He was in Germany. He told me that he went to Normandy. He told me a story once, he said that they were—my father was in the artillery. But anyways, the place where he was, they were being shelled. And they had a little shovel—I





used to have his shovel, too. A little shovel that they used to dig what they call a foxhole. And he said that he had dug his foxhole, something happened, and the soldiers up front had to retreat. And this guy got into the foxhole with him. He said they were shelled for, like, two and a half hours. And you know, he and this White guy were in the same little confined space for those two and a half hours. But the military at that time was segregated, I remember him telling me that story. So after the guy, after they didn’t get hit, the guy acted as though he didn’t know him. After that, they didn’t speak. Which I thought was strange.

	W:	It puts the test to that old thing, they say there are no strangers in a foxhole. [Laughter] But then your dad in that situation, he was a stranger in a foxhole.

	G:	Yeah, I guess. I never personally was in the military. When I graduated high school in 1965, the Vietnam War was raging. And I was off to college. And after college I taught school at Wymore—yeah, they had changed Hungerford to Wymore. You know, that’s something that the citizenry fought about: people, the alumni, and all of that kind of stuff. They fought to try and keep the school. I see that happens still. People have alma maters, and they—. But you know, people I guess have a tendency to resist change, but schools are something that have to be periodically updated in order to be in tune with technology and everything. So if people could really think about it, it’s just a course of nature. You know, there was a big—we had, they had meetings. I didn’t really go to them, but I remember they had meetings, and articles were written and such to try to keep the Orange County School Board from changing our alma mater from Hungerford High School to Wymore Technical School. But in the end, it became Wymore Tech.





And they closed the school. But there are certain overheads and everything that have to be met. And so we have to make changes. And if you really can look at the big picture, I’m sure it’s in the best interest of the students.

	W:	Your father’s mother, are you aware of who her parents were? G:	My father’s mother? No. I don’t have no clue.

	W:	How about your mom’s parents, who are they?



	G:	My mother’s father was Walter Shanks, my grandfather. I knew him very well. He was in my life, he was ninety-three years old when he passed away. And he and I were very close. He lived in Eatonville; that’s what brought us to Eatonville. I knew his sisters, my great uncles and aunts. You know, I have a memory, being the oldest child, but they were older people and passed away. But my grandfather he lived to be ninety-three years old, so he was an old man. First truck I ever had, he sold me.

	W:	What’d he sell it to you for?



	G:	I don’t remember the dollar amount, I just remember that it was a green Chevy with a three speed on the column, and he wanted me to have it. And he told me, he said, “Well, I went to Maitland today, and I couldn’t remember why I went there.” And he said he was puzzled as to why he was in Maitland. So he said it was time for him to stop driving. And he said, “I want you to have the truck.” And that was the first truck I ever had.

	W:	Still have it?



	G:	No, I don’t. There again I didn’t have the maturity, the wisdom, to retain items like that, you know? But I got pictures of him. And I have a lot of memories. But I had





a sweater I kept for a long time that used to be his. But I don’t even have that anymore.

	W:	You said that you remembered his brothers and sisters, your great aunts and uncles. What were their names?

	G:	I had an uncle who was a cripple, he was Uncle Rufus. Rufus Shanks. W:	Polio?

	G:	I don’t really know what caused him to be crippled. I just remember he had crutches. But they were from Waycross, Georgia. And I remember my Uncle Rufus and he had a sister, her name was Fannie Lou. And he had another sister, her name was Daisy. And I remember that my Aunt Fannie Lou was married to a guy named Early Taylor. And they used to live in this next block here. I remember that as a child. Now I have an aunt, her name is Lillie Shanks. She’s really up on all of the family history from my mother’s side.

	W:	Do you still have family reunions? Do you have tie-in with those cousins and everybody?

	G:	Yes, we have an annual one that’s held in the cafeteria at Wymore Tech School every year at Christmastime.

	W:	Your mother’s father’s people, do you know anything about them? Your great- grandparents?

	G:	My grandfather was biracial. We do have, my sister has a family tree, and that information is in it. I guess I’m not as historic as I should be, you know, because I don’t even have a copy of it. I have seen it at family reunions, I’ve seen distant





cousins and such, but I haven’t really kept a real good line of communications with them.

	W:	We talked about President Obama earlier a little bit, and we talked about leadership, and you identified leadership qualities you saw in him. What do you think about Barack Obama being president of the United States? I guess two parts: did you expect it to happen, and what do you think about it?

	G:	I never thought that there would be an African American president in my lifetime.



I didn’t think that. I thought for sure that Hillary Clinton would become the first woman president, and sometimes after that we would have an African American president. I think my feeling is that it really shows how as a nation we’ve changed a lot. Because there’s no way given that African American people make up like

12.8 percent of the population in the United States, you know, there’s no way he could’ve become president with just the Black vote. So there must be a lot of White people that saw leadership qualities and had confidence in him in order for him to become president. I really kind of think that he became president at a time when it was really Hillary Clinton’s time, that’s what I thought. I was very surprised, he seemed to come from in a distance. I thought that maybe next term would have been his—that was my thinking—would’ve been his chance, after Hillary. That’s what I thought. I was all set to vote for Hillary.

	W:	Do you think that his family background—there was a lot of information about his grandparents who raised him, and his mother, that was a big part of his story— do you think that made him more accessible to a wider public instead of just African American voters? Might that have played a role?





	G:	I think that’s difficult to—for me, anyways. I mean, I think somewhat, a little bit, but I think this was more that the basic establishment of the population here felt that we’ve always had older White men in the office of president, and so this was an opportunity to be a breath of fresh air, more or less. Let’s give a younger, different ethnicity an opportunity to see which direction we can go in.

	W:	Change. So, has the experiment been successful? He’s been elected to two terms; we don’t know who is going to come afterwards, but what do you think about this period of time where a Black man was elected president? Has he done enough to where it can happen again, or what are your thoughts?

	G:	I think he’s done a good job, from my perspective, but I think it’s been extremely difficult. And I think that there could’ve been a lot more accomplished during his administrations, except that I think the resistance, I was just astounded at the amount of disrespect that was thrown at the office of president of the United States. I mean, I was watching TV and I saw a man in chambers call him a liar while he was at the podium.

	W:	At the state of the union, that’s never happened before. When that happened, what were your thoughts?

G:  Well, I was really surprised. And I just felt that it was extremely disrespectful. And then, I was even more surprised at the amount of support, that, I don’t remember the gentleman’s name now, but—

W:   It was a Republican from South Carolina, I don’t remember his name.



	G:	Right, I remember he was a Republican from South Carolina, but I mean, he received a lot of—





	W:	Money. [Laughter]



	G:	—support, you know what I’m saying? People like Sean Hannity, and O’Reilley, and Rush Limbaugh, they acted like he was a hero. I mean, I just think that if nothing else, people should respect the office of president to the extent that they wouldn’t do something like that.

	W:	What are your hopes for Winter Park in the future? You were kind enough to consider this interview for the oral history archives in a way to add to the body of knowledge to help students in the future, help people in communities listen and hear your story. So there had to be a reason that you were willing to do that. And I’m thinking that it must center around your love for your own community, and how you want people to know more about it and think about it. So what are your hopes for Winter Park as you reflect on your time here?

	G:	Well, my hopes would be that the—you know, Winter Park is a very beautiful, and it’s a very congenial, community. And for the most part, the White and Black community, they get along very well. I don’t know of any tragic incidents that have ever really occurred. But it’s a very, very, very pleasant environment, I think. And there again, I think everybody kind of goes their own way, if you know what I’m saying. It’s like, to me there’s always been a sense of, people know their place. I mean, African American people on this side, I’ve always felt that I’ve been well respected. And whenever I go to Miller’s Hardware store, which is a White establishment that’s, probably the patronage is ninety-nine percent White people, everybody in there always is very pleasant. And I feel very in place.

There’s no place in Winter Park where I can go that I feel out of place. So the





only criticism I have of the way this community functions as a whole, is that there seems to be, to me, disparities in the way that the police department interacts with the African American people. And that’s not all the time. But to give you an example, I had a problem with a guy coming to my house. He got into a big verbal fight with my son, my youngest son. And I made the guy leave from my yard—and the guy came to my house with a gun. It was over a girl. And these type of things happen. And so he went just on the sidewalk, big crowd of people, drew a big crowd of people, and I guess it was more to show off than anything else. But I called the Winter Park Police Department ,and they’re located less than a block from my house. Well, when the police came, they came with three police cars, but they told me they couldn’t make this guy—and he went to the sidewalk. He took the gun, I saw him hand the gun to one of his friends who went around the corner to hide the gun someplace, and he came back, the friend did. So the police were there, and I told them that, but anyways I’m sure that’s just hearsay. But you know, he was standing out there, he was ranting, and raving, and cursing, in front of my house. And of course, my son, to be fair, my son was in the yard, and he was doing the same thing from in my yard. But the problem I have with this situation is that when the police left, they told me there was nothing they could do about that. It’s public property, he was standing on the sidewalk. So I felt that if somebody came to your house and made a big fight, and then you were able to get them out of your yard, and you call the police, because you don’t want this to escalate any further, that they would not—if the same guy went across the railroad tracks, and he was in front of a White





person’s house, and they called the police, when the police came, they would’ve got right out of the car and got right on him. And so, they would not have left him standing there. They left the guy standing in front of my house. And he was a big person. So that’s what I’m saying, I felt that that was a disparity, because I just know in my heart of hearts that there’s no way, if I had been a White man on the other side of town, and there was a guy making a disturbance in front of my house, that they would’ve reacted the same way. They just drove off and they left him standing right out there with a crowd of people and everything. So you know, this guy could have had the other guy bring the gun back, and my son could’ve, or I could’ve been injured, or my son could have; whatever could have transpired. So I just wish—that would be my hope, that we would have a group of law enforcement officers that would have a different attitude when they deal with African American people. That’s just one example. There are numerous ones that I could cite. You know, I got into a fight once, been a number of years; my wife was coming from church, and there was a guy that was drunk. She had to walk by their house. And the guy came out, and for whatever reason, he grabbed ahold of my wife by the arm. And she had to—you know. And so, she came home, she told me about it. Well, it’s only in the next block. So I walked around there, and I was standing there talking to the guy, and he was very congenial, pretty much. But his house was like four doors down. His brother came out of the house, it was a big guy. And his brother came up and he saw his brother, and he just changed his whole attitude. He went to cursing, and he swung to hit me. And I grabbed him by the arm, and we started fighting, and his brother came up





behind me and hit me in the head with something. And they wind up breaking my hand, and breaking my glasses. Called the police, they said, “Well, there’s nothing we can do, we didn’t see it.” To me, that’s unimaginable. They said we didn’t see it nothing we can do. They didn’t do nothing, either. They didn’t go and ask the people on the street or nothing. I had a big black eye, you know, my eye was all swollen, my lips were busted. And they said there was nothing they can do about it, they didn’t see it. To me, you know, that don’t make no sense.

	W:	I would like to mention just a couple of quick points of reference or individuals, and just get your quick response on whatever that would be. Michelle Obama.

	G:	I think that she’s very charismatic. I think that she’s—in my mind, anyways, she’s one of the better first ladies that we’ve ever had in office. She’s very intellectual, she’s fashionable, and I just think that she conducts herself as well as any first lady that we’ve ever had.

	W:	Martin Luther King.



	G:	I think that Martin Luther King was, to civil rights, the most important part of integration. I think without Martin Luther King, we would’ve been in a much different place today, and it would not have been favorable, the place we would’ve been, to African American people.

	W:	Mary McLeod Bethune.



	G:	Ms. McLeod was an inspirational leader and she was a person who had a vision, and Bethune-Cookman College, when I was coming up, was always a desired place for people to further their education. So she put that in place, so I think that





she was one of the Black people in Florida—she was one of the most outstanding Black people here in Florida.

	W:	Jake Gaither.



	G:	I’m not familiar with him.



	W:	Coach at FAMU. Football coach.



	G:	I don’t remember a lot about him. I just know that that FAMU has always been, for students in Florida, one of the premier African American schools.

	W:	The FAMU band situation.



	G:	I think it’s very unfortunate. I don’t know how it could really benefit the general public, population, for them not to be able to perform. I don’t understand how you penalize people, everybody, for misconduct of a certain faction. I don’t see how you penalize everybody that way. I think that’s not fair, like it wasn’t fair to Penn State to be as, to punish all the football players, athletes, for the actions of a few people. It just don’t seem right to me to punish everybody, because many people who were part of that knew nothing of the problems that existed. Even like the hazing. I’m sure—it just don’t make sense to me that you would punish such a renowned school as FAMU marching band is for some—now, it was wrong, the hazing; but I think that the punishment did not fit the crime. I think when they go after people who were—after the investigation, when they go after the people who actually were the perpetrators, I think that’s the way that should’ve been handled. I don’t think they should punish the whole entire school for a number of years.

	W:	Rick Scott.





	G:	Rick Scott, to me, is the worst governor that the state has ever had. He has set back a lot of social programs. And I don’t understand how a person who came from a poor upbringing could take the position—just because they have money now—could take the position to try and curtail programs that are put in place to help people who are less fortunate financially. I just don’t understand how that happens. Someone who could spend seventy-seven million dollars of their own money in a campaign, and then go right on to the insurance program provided by the state, I’m not able to relate to people who have that mindset.

	W:	Hillary and Bill Clinton.



	G:	Under Bill Clinton’s administration, the industry that I worked in, which was the construction industry, flourished. If it were possible, I would’ve voted for a change in the law to let Bill Clinton do a third term. I think that Hillary Clinton would make a good president for the United States, that’s what I think. I think that—and you know, politics in the United States to me is divided. You got Republicans and you have Democrats. From my perspective, the Republican Party is in place to try and institute policies that benefit the wealthy people in the United States. Now, I saw something in the news the other day that said that people who earn an income of, I think it was fifty or eighty thousand dollars down, their wages in the last ten years have only risen by twenty percent. People who earn in excess of two hundred fifty thousand dollars, their wages in the last ten years have risen by two hundred and seventy-five percent. That’s a great disparity, that’s what’s destroying the middle class. So, Rick Scott is a person that went from lower middle class maybe, or a lower income bracket, to the top income-earning





bracket. And now that he went there, he wants to impact the government in ways that marginalize people of lower incomes.

	W:	This may take longer to answer, because this is the question of the moment right now in our country, but—so, it doesn’t have to be a short answer, just however you want to articulate it: George Zimmerman, Trayvon Martin.

	G:	Well, I think it’s very sad that Trayvon Martin lost his life, but at the same time, I think that it really gave emphasis to the disparity in the way that the criminal justice system handles African American people and White people. That’s what it seems to me. For me, I was not surprised at the verdict. When I saw that they had five White women and one Hispanic woman, my first statements were to my wife, “There is no way that this jury will find George Zimmerman guilty of anything.” Because first of all, the Hispanic people really stick together, more than any other race of people that I’m aware of. Which is not a bad thing, I don’t that’s a bad thing, that they stick together. But I didn’t think that, first before that lady would have voted him guilty of anything, it would’ve been—if it took a unanimous decision, it was never going to happen. They would have had a hung jury. That’s what my thinking was. Now, I think that for whatever reason, there is a fear in White people of the average African American male, that’s what I think. Now having said that, if I sit here and contemplate who my best friends are, I would actually pick probably three White men that I know on a personal basis.

But that happens once people get to know people. But also, in my experiences in life here, it seems to me that for whatever reason, and I think it’s to do with when you have sports, or when you have interactions—African American males are





just kind of more naturally athletic and more physical people in general. And so, people associate athleticism and, I guess, with some of the—like, some things happen. For example, the basketball player Ron Artest, he got a new name now, but he went off the court into the stands and assaulted a man in a basketball game. Now I don’t that’s ever, ever happened before, but those are the types of things that really stay in people’s mind. So the way—you know I mean, I’m a very thin man, I’ve always been this way. I only weigh—I’m six, well I don’t know what my height is actually right now, because as you get older you shrink. My doctor told me I had shrinked an inch and a half since I started coming to him. But anyway, at a point, I was six two and a half, a hundred and sixty-five pounds, which is about as heavy as I’ve ever been. But, my upbringing has been such that, I don’t see people, men that I fear. And I cannot for the life of me understand how this seventeen-year-old unarmed kid could be beating up on a man that was armed, and I have seen it said in the news, that he was in a some sort of a kick boxing class for eighteen months, Zimmerman. So you know I think I’ve always—this is what my dad told me when I was a kid. He said, “Understand this,” he said to me, “when you have a conflict with a guy, you make your mind up as to whether or not you’re going fight. And if you’re going fight, you make sure that you don’t let him hit you first, if you’re going fight.” He said, “But if you surmise that you aren’t going to be able to hold your own, you get out of there.

You leave.” So it’s difficult for me to comprehend that a man who outweighs a seventeen-year-old kid by sixty-plus pounds would be beat up. I mean, I just can’t accept that, it doesn’t compute. Especially if this man is the initial





aggressor, if he chose to follow somebody. But having said all of that, I think that what we really need is to find a way to have more interaction between the races. I think that’s the real cure. Because, like I said, if want to sit here and try to think of who my best friends are, it probably would be three White men. And so, that says a lot in and of itself. But once White people from—this is my perspective only—once they get to know you, they don’t really see color in you. It’s like Michael Jackson, you know, I don’t think White people really saw him as a Black man. So. And I think in conversations, I’ve talked to a lot of men, and I perceive, they look at—I’ve seen them. I mean, I’ve had conversations, they look at guy and said, “Whoa! I wouldn’t want to have any trouble with him!” You know what I’m saying? I’ve never seen men that way. I’m a little guy, but I’ve never seen any man that really causes me to be in fear, or—I don’t know. So I think that’s where the real problem lies, and I think it needs to be a dialogue where people could really be honest. Because I just don’t see how people can say that if Trayvon Martin had been White, it would’ve been the same thing. That, it just does not compute to me. It’s like, even in his 911 calls, he was saying, he was calling him a punk, and “they always get away with it.” Basically, in his mind, he already has decided that this person that he was watching was some sort of a crook. And I just don’t know how he came to that conclusion, you know? So it’s a big mess.

But like I said, it’s already happened, and nothing can change that. But there are people who are very outspoken on both sides that are saying things that will cause separation in the races, and I think that’s bad. You know, I think that people should really take a hard look—like for example, O.J. Simpson, I always





thought that O.J. was guilty. Had I been a juror, that would’ve been my decision. I thought O.J. was guilty, I really did. He had a Black jury—well, predominantly Black, anyways—and they came back with a not guilty verdict. So it’s pretty much the same thing. But I just think that it’s very divisive, and I think that even though we’ve made a lot of progress in integration, and we have a Black president now, I think that people read into any given situation what their life experiences dictate to them. And I don’t think that’s good. For example, I heard a lot of people say that the president was really wrong for saying that if he had a son, he would look like Trayvon Martin. I just don’t see that that was a bad thing. And I understand, I didn’t hear this myself, but my daughter told me that Sean Hannity said that Zimmerman, George Zimmerman is a hero. That is crazy to me, a twenty-eight-year-old man, armed, and outweighs a seventeen-year old-child, shoots him to death, and he’s a hero? I mean, if Trayvon Martin had been breaking into somebody’s house and this whole thing evolved, I could relate. But somebody coming from the store and going home? And another thing that struck me was they took this seventeen-year-old dead person and drug tested him, and the man that shot him didn’t get drug tested. Where’s the logic in that? I mean, for the first time, I saw police officers take the side of the defendant in testimony. That never happens. I think that the only people I’ve ever known that would shoot somebody to death and not have to go before a judge the next day or so for an arraignment would be police officers. I never knew any self-appointed neighborhood watchperson that could shoot somebody and kill him, especially a minor, and go home that night and get in his own bed. It’s absurd. Now also, I





think that there was no way really to convince, I mean to really prove second degree murder with the evidence that they had. I don’t see how that could’ve happened either, in all fairness. But for people to say that race didn’t play a part, I don’t see how you could—that seems disingenuous to me. My question would be, what made him go against the instructions of the 911 office? And I don’t think that a man with a gun would go into a dark space like that—being armed, I don’t think he went in there with his gun in his holster. I don’t. It may have happened, but I don’t think that’s the way it went down. I wasn’t there, but it just doesn’t make sense, given the fact that he was as—what’s the word I want to use—soft. I think taking the position that he took, I just don’t see that I would have any fear of a man of any race that he—if he was smaller than me, what I’m saying, it just doesn’t make sense. I think that physically, he outweighed Trayvon Martin by sixty-plus pounds. So, I don’t see that it was fair.

	W:	Mr. Glover, on behalf of the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program, and our series of interviews here at the Hannibal Heritage Center, I want to thank you very much for your time and telling your story. It will be invaluable for listeners for quite a long time, and you have our appreciation. I’d like to at this time give you the opportunity for final privilege. My thanks will end my comments to you, and whatever you would care to say, or an observation on the interview, or final thoughts; when you finish those, as much time as it would take, will conclude our interview—again, with our thanks.

	G:	All right. Well, first of all, I’d like to thank you for these gifts. I’m going to take them home and put them on my Blu-ray player, my wife and I can watch them.





And I’m going to hope that if this interview becomes a part of one these maybe one day in the future, I could get a copy. I’m thankful for having the opportunity to come and meet all of you. I’m a person who talks a lot anyways, which is pointed out to me by my wife, so it’s an opportunity for me to do what I like to do. [Laughter] So, I thank you for this opportunity.

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Richard Brust, November 10, 2015 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, April 16, 2018

	Final edited by:	Ryan Morini, February 24, 2019