AAHP 392; Jones; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 392 Carrie Bell Jones African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Annemarie Nichols on September 18, 2015 54 minutes | 23 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 392

Interviewee: Carrie Bell Jones Interviewer: Annemarie Nichols Date: September 18, 2015



	J:	I was born September the 30th, 1921. 5 A.M. N:	Yes, ma’am.

	J:	But my mother told me that—she died before she could tell me anything. So I remember playing in the little sandbox when I was a baby, and when she died, my aunt came and picked me up. And her name was Rebecca Branson. So I went to stay with my aunt then, ‘til I was seventeen. And when I turned seventeen, I married a man by the name of Kinsey—

	N:	How do you spell that?



	J:	K-I-N-S-E-Y. And after I married him, I had four children, four girls. And then we separate. And after we separate, my kids lookeded so good, so I went back to the same man and I married him again, and I had four boys.

	N:	Oh, wow!



	J:	Yeah. So, after I had that. And then after that, we separate again. Because he was a preacher, and he was going off and then he didn’t ever come home, and I had to raise the children by myself. So I got a divorce from him. And then after I got the divorce from him, I remarried him again, then I had the rest of my children. And I didn’t want no two sets of children. I wanted them all from one man, so that’s why I went back and remarried him again. So I had all my children from one man. You know what, having children from this man, and that man, and that, it doesn’t work out. So I took him then after that. I was running in Sanford—I workeded for a White fellow, and his name was Mr. Proctor. He was so nice to me. I would count the money up. That’s why it’s good to be honest. I would count





the money up, and he would tell me how much to leave to run the store, and take the others to the bank. I would do that. And then when I’d take the money to the bank I’d bring the receipts back and give to him, and he would keep the receipts. And so I workeded there for him for a long time until he died.

	N:	What kind of a store did he run? J:	A grocery store.

	N:	In Sanford?



	J:	In Sanford. And when he died, his relatives came from Georgia. Jackson. Came from Georgia to get his body. And that was the saddest day I ever saw in my life, when they were rolling that man out of that store. And so the boys told me to go ahead and keep the store open, until they could come back and sell it. And then I run the store after they left. Then I left there, I stayed there and I runned a juke in Sanford for many, many years.

	N:	What was its name?



	J:	I couldn’t tell yeah that. I mean, I don’t know. I done forgotten now. N:	Yes ma’am.

	J:	Well it was a beer tavern. That’s what it was. Yeah, a beer tavern. And I run that tavern for a long time. Made good money.

	N:	Can you tell me about some of the people in it that would come? You remember some regulars?

	J:	Yeah. Some of them, they, hold on. Well mostly, when my family was living around there. But they was Martha Jones, Ernest Blocker, and Leanna Blocker, and that was his children. And they had a house down from the store, and we





called her “Coot.” And the next one we called “Pig,” but her name was Elmira, and I can’t think of the other girl’ name. But anyway, I ran that for a long time. And then after running that, I bought me a house in Sanford. And I stayed there for a long time. THen after I stayed there, I got tired of staying by myself, so I moved to Ocklawaha. And when I got there, I bought me a house. And it was sitting right where a church was in the center of it. And I bought this land right there in the back of the house, and you could go to [inaudible 4:58]. Or either you can go out, you know, from the store. And I stayed there for a long time. And then after that, I moved away to get a better living. I moved away to Sanford, again. And that’s where I stayed for many, many, many years, until I had my children all married off. And then after they got married, I said, “Well, ain’t no need to keep in the house and everybody gone,” so I moved away, and came to Gainesville. And after I came to Gainesville, me and my husband went back together. And then I stayed with him until he died. But I had a beautiful life. But I had to work hard. And I worked every day of my life. And I stayed there and worked for many, many years. Then, I remarried again, and I adopted my boys; three boys. And they name was Jones. And what happened after I married again, he adopted the three boys, and they were Jones, so they took his name, Joe Jones. Lyndon Jones, Jerome Jones, and Junior Jones, those were the three boys that he adopted. And then he was a veteran, and he would make more money. So after I remarried him, then the children got a check until they were grown. And my baby boy, when he got out of college—I thought he was going to college, I thought when he got out of college he would be a teacher or





something. When he finished college, he said, “I don’t want to be bothered with those children.” [Laughter] And so, he went in the Navy, and spent twenty-nine years in the Navy.

	N:	Wow.



	J:	A long time. And then after he got out of the Navy, then he came and bought a house in Jacksonville. And then he moved to Jacksonville, and I bought two acres of land there. I was going to build me a house, a little cabin, like. And so he said to me one day, he said, “Momma you know what?” He said, “If I had the money I would buy them two acres.” They had two acres. I said, “You haven’t saved nothing. Just to ask how much they want for it, and I’ll give you the money.” Well, after that, I moved back to Gainesville, and that’s where I was working to the packing shed. And I got my arm cut off.

	N:	Oh, wow!



	J:	That was in [19]79. N:	[19]79?

	J:	Yeah.



	N:	Where was that at?



	J:	This was in Alachua, when I got my arm cut off. I was working to a packing shed, and the man told the girl working for him, “Don’t cut that machine,” and they had beans piling up on it. And told her, “Don’t cut that machine on.” And when he said that, she must have misunderstood him, say, “Cut it on.” And she cut it on, and that’s when my arm—. So, I got to here and I took care of myself, and I’ve staying there for the rest of my life. And then after, I married my husband, and he





adopted the three boys. Then he had a home out there. And so, we moved in the home and stayed there, and that’s where I stayed there and worked myself to death gardening. First we had cows. Then the next thing, we had hogs, and them devilish hogs would get out and go over to the next person’ field, and root up under there, and they wouldn’t eat right on the edge of the land. They would go up in the middle of the field and eat the corn at night. Rooting, breaking the corns down like that. And so then, my husband had some land out there, so he sold half of it, and I still have that. But we had garden: greens, okra, tomatoes, everything you want to eat, we had it. And then we had cows and hogs. Then after that, my son bought goats, and we had goats until he sold them. And then after he sold them, that was that. The end of that.

	N:	That was in Alachua? J:	Yeah.

	N:	What was your second husband’s name? J:	Joe Jones.

	N:	Joe Jones, okay. And your first one was? J:	Henry Kinsey.

	N:	Okay.



	J:	Yeah. His name was Henry Kinsey. And all my children were Kinseys, until I married this last man, and after I married him, then he adopted the boys, that changed their name to Jones. So he adopted the boys. And that’s where we lived, in Alachua. Up until I left from out there. Yeah.

	N:	When did you move to Alachua?





	J:	I moved to Alachua when I married Joe Jones. N:	What year was that? Do you remember?

	J:	I don’t remember, I can’t remember, I’m too old. I guess I’m too old to remember, because I could remember each child that was born, but I can’t remember that now. My memory’s kind of short or something.

	N:	I think it’s great.



	J:	You think so?



	N:	I think you’re doing a great job.



	J:	And then I lived there in Alachua all those many years, until I moved away from there out here. But as a girl growing up, I had a beautiful life.

	N:	Can you tell me a little bit about some of the experiences of your girlhood? J:	Oh, when I growed up?

	N:	Yes, ma’am. Where did you grow up?



	J:	I was born in [inaudible 11:48], Florida, until my mother died. And after she died, my aunt moved me from there in [inaudible 11:58] to Gainesville. Yeah. And that’s when I married at seventeen. [Laughter] Yeah, I married real young.

	N:	Where in Gainesville did you live? J:	Northwest 14th, Gainesville.

	N:	What was the neighborhood like when you were small?



	J:	It was beautiful. Beautiful. Ms. Taylor, she was a teacher, and her husband lived right there by Mt. Carmel Church. I don’t know whether you know where that’s at, Mt. Carmel Church. And after they moved, we stayed there. Northwest 4th Street in Gainesville, right in front of Mt. Carmel Church.





	N:	Is that where you went to church?



	J:	Yeah. And after that I went to a Baptist Church. And after that, I went to the Baptist church, my husband was a minister there. And then we stayed there until I moved to Alachua. Had a good life, a beautiful life. But I had to work hard for it, and I stayed right there by myself and raised my children. And I had four girls, and four boys. And every time I had one, that one would look better than the other one, so I thought I’d get all the children from one man. And so, I just stayed there and had all the boys and the girls. And then my oldest daughter, she’s a nurse. Yeah.

	N:	That’s awesome.



	J:	I have a daughter dead. She was in New York. And then my baby daughter, she lives in Gainesville, so she’s still here. And my oldest daughter—now I think she about seventy-nine years old now. But she start nursing at Shands, and she left Shands and went to the VA hospital. And that’s where she stayed, she’s retired now. But I took a lot of time with her, because she was the oldest, and she was beautiful. I took a lot of time with her. Well, I took a lot of time with all of them, but by she being the oldest and a nurse, you know, I took more time with her when she was a baby. Because the others came along and that kind of push her out the way, yeah. But other than that, it was beautiful.

	N:	Can you talk a little about raising your family?



	J:	I was a strict mother. I didn’t allow my children to go out with boys, and I told them, “If y’all have any babies, don’t call me Momma,” because I wasn’t going take care of no children, no grandchildren. But now, I’m in the fifth generation—





	N:	Wow!



	J:	I don’t have nothing but some children; nothing but boys and girls. I don’t know how many grandchildren, great-grand. One little boy came up to me, they had a huge party for me. And one of my grandchildren came: “Hi, great-grand-grand—” I said, “Don’t come here with that ‘great-great-grand,’ just say ‘Grandmomma.” [Laughter] And I told the children about two months ago, I said, “Get all my grandchildren and great-grandchildren, where I know how many children I have when I die, because I’m in the fifth generation.”

	N:	That’s amazing.



	J:	And my oldest daughter, she have a daughter named Erica. And she’s a sweetheart. She used to do all my washing and everything, and care for my clothes now. I have lint on it, see?

	N:	Yes ma’am.



	J:	And when she was doing them, I didn’t have this. They were new clothes, like.



But you know when they come here to this laundry, they don’t have time to wash one or two pieces, so that causing the lint, you know. And so rather than that, everything else went nice and calm. When my children was growing up, I was a strict mother. I didn’t let them go out in the street. They went to church, and after they left church, I would take them to Pick and Save, and we would have dinner at Pick and Save. And then we’d come home.

	N:	Is this in Gainesville?



	J:	Yeah. The Pick and Save in Gainesville. Pick and Save used to be a nice place to eat. And after church, we’d go to church, and then come by there and eat





dinner, and then we’d come home. And then after that, when they come home, they would invite their friend-boys. And by me having three boys, that mean we had about twelve more. [Laughter] And then I would cook and feed them, and they would all stay around with the kids, and then after that, they’d play ball and run over the field and everywhere. Yeah. And I was a strict mother, and I sat down there, I told my children, I said, “I don’t want y’all going out there getting babies. Because I’m not going be no grandmomma.” And so I can knock on wood, I can beat on my knee. My girls didn’t never go out and have no babies. When they had a baby, they were married. Yeah.

	N:	It sounds like you did a good job raising them.



	J:	I tried my best to raise them. And I would do everything. I’d work hard. I worked for Mr. Chevy; he was a policeman. And I had these boys. And he had a son by the name of Chris, and I would take my children, and I would go to Mr. Chevy and the children would play in the yard all day. And when Chris—that was Mr. Chevy’ son—he say, “Carrie, don’t worry about cleaning that house. Just take care of Chris.” And when I take care of Chris, he say, “Carrie, I want to go to the store!” And I say, “What you want to go to the store for, Chris?” “I want to buy something.” And I say, “Chris, you have everything here.” He say, “But I want to go to the store.” And so I would take him to the store and ride him around, and when he’d go to sleep, I’d take him back. And then that’s when I would clean house. And then when I would visit with them, I would bring all my boys over, and they played together. And Mr. Chevy and Ms. Chevy, then they would cook and feed them. Then we’d go home, and everything was fine.





N:   When was this?



J:  Well I guess I was about—oh, this been many years ago. Probably around fifty years ago. You see, I’m ninety-five now. I have a long way to go back. And I try to get it all, but you know something? When you get old, you forget things.

Because right now, I can give you the name of all my children, but I can’t give you the birthdate.

N:   Will you give me all their names?



	J:	Yeah. Lucinda, Gretchen, Essie Mae Hudson, and Carrie B. Howard, Jerome Jones, Junior Jones, Alfred Jones, and Lyndon Baines. Lyndon Baines Jones, that’s my baby boy! He was born when Lyndon Baines Johnson, so I didn’t know what to name him, so I named him after Lyndon Baines Johnson. [Laughter] That’s why his name Lyndon Baines. Yeah. And, oh, I had a beautiful life. And I worked hard, but I had a beautiful life. And I raised all my children, but I would sit down and tell them, “I don’t want y’all going out with boys, because boys don’t mean you no good. All they want to do is feel all over you and have babies.” I said, “When you know anything, you coming up with a baby, and you’ll ruin your life. So go and try and make something out yourself.” And I was pretty lucky. My girls didn’t have no children until they was grown and got married. And I had my daughter, Essie Mae, she moved to New York. She had a sorry husband, moved to New York, and that where she died in New York. But the Lord blessed me after she died. I went up there and got her body, and brought her back here to Sanford, and buried her. But then, let me tell you this: before she died, I went ‘round looking for a house. I was going move in with her because I thought I had





to take care. So I finally found a house—this man, I don’t know his name—found the house, and he say I could get the house. So, I went back, and I was going buy this house, but then my daughter passed, and I had to go back to the man and tell him I couldn’t buy the house, because my daughter had died, and I had to bring her back to Gainesville. Yeah. So all of them did pretty good. I didn’t want my children to be no slum, and I did everything in the world I could do to teach them to stand up and be somebody. Now, that was the main problem there. But I never had no trouble with them, never.

	N:	That’s good.



	J:	And I didn’t have no babies running around either. [Laughter] And I have, let me see: Erica, Lisa, Bebe. Oh I can’t name them all. I’m just naming the oldest one. And then, I called Jerome, Jerome. And then Lyndon, Junior, Lucinda, Essie Mae; I think I’m going back. Well, anyway, I had eight head. And I had three miscarriage. And that was rough, after I had the miscarriages. My husband was sort of a—well, he wasn’t a good husband. I stayed there with him, but he wasn’t a good husband. He was out running revival meeting, he said, but when he get home he didn’t have no money. So I went out there in the woods, and got me some lighting, and I had it in a sack. Instead up me putting it over the fence, I had a hard time getting it up. And I didn’t put it down, I couldn’t get over the fence, and then all the lighting went around like that. And that’s how I had my first miscarriage. So I brought that on myself. But rather than that, everything else was okay. Now have I given you all of the history? I haven’t given you all of it, have I? And so I lived, after I married my second husband, I adopted the three





boys to him, and then I liveded with him all those many years. We got along real fine, we went to church every Sunday, and we would go home and cook dinner and all like that. So finally he died. Then that left me alone; there was just the children. And I stayed there and raised them up. And we got along good. Now all of them is married, but I named my baby boy Lyndon. [Laughter] Because he was the last one, and I had run out of names, so during that time, Lyndon Baines Jones—let me see, what that president’ name, Lyndon Baines? Johnson, I believe! Lyndon Baines Johnson. Yeah. So I stayed there and took care of my children. I was a funny mother. I wanted my children to stand up and be respected, and respect other people. Always told them what the Bible say: “Honor thy father and thy mother, that your days may be long upon the land which the Lord God giveth thee.” And I said, would tell them, “Thou shall not kill, though shall not steal, nor bear false witness; stand up and be somebody.” I always wanted my children to stand up and be somebody. Because you know, I didn’t want them getting around doing any kind of thing. But I wanted them to stand up. So that’s why I’ve growed old in age, and when my birthday come up and I enter ninety-five, I was born September the 30th, 1921.

	N:	Did you have brothers and sisters?



	J:	I didn’t have no brothers. I didn’t have no sisters. I was the onliest child. N:	Do you remember your father? No?

	J:	No.



	N:	Can you tell me a little about your aunt? J:	Yeah. What raised me?





	N:	Yes ma’am.



	J:	Yeah, she was a nice lady. She was real nice, but I couldn’t go out. Like, other girls would go out. I could go play in the yard and around like that, but I couldn’t go out. And then she would go out, and we’d go to town. And she’d buy groceries, but we was in a wagon and a horse. [Laughter] But we’d go to town and stay all day. But she was a beautiful person, but she just wanted me to stand up, she didn’t want me to get out there and be a slave—to have a bunch of children and no father. So, I was kept pretty close. Yeah, she didn’t allow that. I went to church on Sundays. I had a beautiful life, but I had to do it right there. I couldn’t go out, you know like girls go out now. I couldn’t do that. I had to stay there, but she was a nice aunt. I was a child when my mother died, and I don’t know my father. I don’t. And that was pretty rough; to grow up without a father. I had a father, but I didn’t know him. And he didn’t ever come find me, for me to know him. I don’t have no sisters, no brothers. Nobody, I’m here by myself.

	N:	Were your grandparents a part of your life? J:	My?

	N:	Your grandmother or granddad?



	J:	No, I didn’t have none. They was dead when I came along. They all had died.



Yeah.



	N:	Can you tell me a little about maybe how you remember Gainesville growing up? J:	Gainesville was a beautiful place. And it was a nice place, and I used to work in

Fred’ Grill there, and I would go home and work, and get off, and just like I say, I stayed in church all the time. But everybody seemed to be very nice then. It’s a





bunch round there I used to know. But it was a very nice place to live. Because I didn’t bother nobody and didn’t nobody bother me. And I’m still that way today. I don’t bother nobody. I don’t take nothing from nobody. I don’t want nobody’ stuff but mine. And that’s how I was brought up. Be nice, but don’t bother, don’t touch, don’t let your hand be sticky! Because that could get you in trouble; stealing and stuff like that. But Gainesville was a beautiful place to live in. Ms. Taylor, she was a teacher, and Deacon Taylor was her husband. And Willie George and Sam.

Willie George died, but Sam’s still living. And they was beautiful people.



	N:	Can you tell me about Willie George and Sam?



	J:	Sam, no, they moved away. But Willie George died. But Sam, I think he live in Tennessee, up there.

	N:	Were they your age?



	J:	No. No, I was married. Yeah. I don’t know anything too much about them.



	N:	Can you tell me a little about your congregation growing up? About your church? J:	Yeah, I was belonged to Mount Olive Primitive Baptist Church, in Gainesville.

And I stayed in that church for many, many years. And then after I got married, we still, me and the boys went to church there. Yeah, and what I would do, I would cook on Saturday nights, and I had pans of food, biscuit and all that kind of stuff. So when church turned out, they didn’t have to worry about going over eating, you know, they feed you at church. I would always have food in the car to feed them, then some of the church members would come over there and eat with us. And I kept my car. I would drive in a—oh, Lord help me. A Chevrolet. I would drive in a Chevrolet. I kept me a good car. And me and the boys would





take off, I’d fill the car with them, and we’ll take off, and we would go to Miami and Fort Lauderdale, and everywhere. And the children were nice, and they still nice to me today, because I was nice to them. And they still treat me the same way. They’re nice to me.

	N:	Can you tell me about those trips?



	J:	Oh yeah, I’d go to Fort Lauderdale. Lyndon had a godmother down there, and I would go to Fort Lauderdale and I would take him down, let her see her. Her name was Idella. I can’t think her last name, but her name was Idella. And she was nice. And we’d take trips down there to Fort Lauderdale. I had that Chevrolet. I’d take it to the shop and have it gassed up and everything, and we would take off. Go down and stay for the weekend, and come back and go to work. And they likeded that. I didn’t have a family, a close family. Because see, my aunt kept me so close when I was growing up, so that didn’t give me a chance to interact on the streets and around. And by me being her dead sister’ child, you know, she was real careful when I was growing up. I can go out and play, but I had to go to somebody’ house that I knew. I couldn’t just go anywhere. Yeah. I couldn’t just go anywhere.

	N:	What’s some of your favorite memories?



	J:	My favorite memory was—growing up, when I was a child I growed up without brothers and sister. Or nobody. I had uncles, but they was living off somewhere else, I don’t know where. They were living I don’t even know. I don’t know about it. I was just brought up by myself.

	N:	How did that affect your life when you were an adult?





	J:	Well, to end it all, I ended up here. And I loved the places. It’s nice. And the folks are nice to me, and they treat me real nice. They give me a bath. Nick takes care of me. Only thing, I don’t have no hair. I used to have hair. But I don’t have nothing now but fuzz! [Laughter] But I used to have a head full of hair. It would hang way down my back, and I’d go along shaking it like that. Now I don’t have nothing to shake. And a lady came by the other day—they keep me in hats. She came by here the other day, and she give me this hat. [Laughter] But as a child growing up, I didn’t have, I couldn’t get out like other children and ramble. I had to be close, and my aunt had to know where I was at. She didn’t let me go out and come in like the children do now. I couldn’t do that.

	N:	Did you have any really good friends that you always played with?



	J:	Yeah, I—the teachers. I did more playing with the teachers. I remember that they had a large log right in front of the schoolhouse. This was in [inaudible 37:56].

Had a log in front of the schoolhouse, and I would go and play on that log. When school take in, I would go in. And I was a good scholar in school. Good. And I would get in the front of the class. And when they would get—every time they would call somebody, I’d move up, I’d move up. And that would move them down. And when I end up, I would end up in front of my class. [Laughter] You know, I went to school and was more careful with what I would do. I was interested in my school. And I would get out on this—the children, well, the children wouldn’t play with me. And I’m going tell you just what they said: “Don’t play with that old half-White girl.” And the teachers would come out and sit with me. I spent more time with the teachers. I didn’t have too many friends when I





went to school. I guess they were jealous or something. I had long hair, I had pretty hair. And they would say—I don’t guess I should tell you this.

	N:	You can tell me if you want.



	J:	Start talking about it, it bring back memory. And then what they would say, “Don’t play with that old half-White girl.” And I didn’t have too many friends, because they wouldn’t play with me.

	N:	Who was your favorite teacher?



	J:	Richard Cole was my principal, and Belle Clark was my teacher. I didn’t mean to cry, but when I go to talking about memory and thinking about over my life, it makes me feel real sad. But I didn’t mean to cry.

	N:	Aw, you’re fine.



	J:	But I cry, you know, going back over my life. Because I look back over my life and say, “Lord, how did I make it?” But I made it. I made it. And I’m here today. But then after I got sick, my son took me to the doctor and everywhere. And it wasn’t nothing I could do, so I ended up out here. And he still come and see about me, because he’s more able to come than the other children. He the one went in the Navy and stayed so long. He went to college, and then after he got out of college—I believe in children in going to school. So he went in the Navy, and he spent twenty-nine years in there. And after he spent twenty-nine years, he have three children, and they both boys. And they comes up to see me, and he have his wife. And they real nice. And then, I have a lot of friends go to church, I go to New Hope Primitive Baptist Church. They supposed to come get





me the first Sunday. When is that? About two weeks from now. Two or three weeks from now, they supposed to come and get me and take me to church.

N:   That’s good.



J:  And my pastor, Reverend Pelham—but I have a lot of pastors: so I have Starling, Reverend Starling; Reverend Pelham; but, anyway, they all come up here to see me. I haven’t been lonesome since I’ve been up here.

N:   That’s good.



	J:	They all come to see me. On Sunday night, the four of them was in: Jesse, and Verdell was in, and Reverend Starling and his wife was in. I have plenty company all the time. And that what keep me going. Then I get my Bible and read it. Yeah.

	N:	That’s good. So when you were growing up, what were some of your favorite things to do?

	J:	Remembering things to do?



	N:	Yes ma’am. What were some of your favorite things to do when you were a child?

	J:	[Laughter] I can’t say I watched T.V. because I didn’t have none, but I had a record player. I would play the record player and sleep, and stay in the bed. I’d go to sleep. [Laughter] Sleep in the bed. And then, I’d get up and go to church. We had prayer meeting, then we had church, and then we had YPVW—which was a choir, YPVW—before we’d get to church. Young People Volunteer Work, I think that’s what it was. And that’s all I can give you about that, because I stayed in church all the time. I had to.

	N:	How’d that affect your life?





	J:	I had a beautiful life. Because I didn’t have no children until I got married. [Laughter] I didn’t have no children till I got married, and I had a beautiful life. And I still have it, I still have my children, expecting I have a daughter dead. But I still have my children, and they bring me food all the time. They ask me what I want, and I say, “I want some barbeque and lima beans, and ham hock.” [Laughter] Yeah.

	N:	What do your children mean to you?



	J:	Oh, the whole world! Because they’re good to me. The whole world, they mean a lot. I wouldn’t take nothing in the world for my children. That’s why I can talk about it. They’re real nice to me. And my oldest daughter bake me cakes, and pies, and bring them out here me. Good to me. I don’t have nothing to worry about. They’re so good to me. I keep my cup. I spit in it when a cold come up in my—keep from spitting around, I spit in my cup. And my children mean the whole world to me. They nice to me, they respect me and everything. They love they momma. Sometime I lay down and wonder at night, if something should happen, how would they take it. I imagine it would be hard for them to take it. But I teach them. I say, “I don’t want y’all to cry.” I say, “Give me my mother care whilst I’m leaving, so when I’m gone you don’t have nothing bad to worry about, to think about. Just think about the goodness you’ve been to me, and I think of the goodness that y’all have treated me. How y’all have treated me.” And I tell them that. I say, “I don’t want you to cry.” But you know, they’ll be crying. [Laughter] Yeah. And the Bible say, “Honor thy father and thy mother, that the days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee.” Honor your father and





your mother. And I teach them that all the time. Yeah, sometime Lyndon come in and say, “Momma what you doing? I ain’t coming back to see you no more.” I say, “You know what the Bible say?” [Laughter] “Honor thy father and mother, that the day be long upon the land that the lord by giveth thee.” And I think that what carries me through. See, I lay down at night and I pray. And I ask the Lord that my last day be my best. Don’t let me suffer, just let me lay down and breathe my life. Sweet and easy. And I told the lady, I talked to the lady down, I say, “If I should go to sleep and you can’t wake me, don’t try to wake me. Just let me go on. If I [inaudible 47:07] you know, to try to survive.” And I say, “Just let me go, die in peace.” And I say, “Lord don’t let me fall in the hands of other people that won’t do right.” Because you know, you could fall into mean hands sometimes.

And you know, in a place like this, some people are good and some not. They don’t treat you the same way. But so far, I’ve been doing pretty good. Yeah.

Because I stand up for myself when I get to going. I stand up for myself. And I say, “Keep living!” I say, “Some of y’all won’t get to the day where I’m at now. Y’all won’t make it that way.” I say, “You’ll be cut short, but think about it when you get old. Old and feeble.” And that’s what the Bible say: Do unto others as you’d have them to do unto you. And so I tell them, I say, “Some of y’all won’t never get to reach my age. You’ll be cut short.” But the Lord kept, yeah.

	N:	You’re going to turn ninety-five really soon. How do you feel about that?



	J:	Good, I feel good. And you know what? I have song to sing, I’ll always sing it: [sings] “Lord I’m running, I’m trying to make a hundred. Lord I’m running, trying to make a hundred. Lord, I’m running, trying to make a hundred, ninety-nine and a





half won’t do.” I’m trying to make that hundred. And you know what? I might not get there, but I’m getting there. I might not reach it, but it’s some people out there a hundred and one years old.

	N:	Yes, ma’am!



J:  Yeah, and you know? I might be the one to be here. But, I don’t want to suffer. When I get where I can’t do for myself, like feed myself and all like that; I don’t want to suffer. I want the Lord just come and take me away.

	N:	When you look back over your life, what’s been your proudest accomplishment? J:	Well, I think about how good God’ been good to me and kept me. Through many storms and rain, he have kept me. And I could’ve been sick, and not able to take

care of myself. You know what I mean? I can’t walk, but I can still get around in this wheelchair. Here I get in this wheelchair and I go all the way around. And I go out the door. It just beautiful. And I had a beautiful life. I had a beautiful life. Beautiful. I don’t know how I made it, but I made it! [Laughter] Beautiful life, yeah. And the one thing I’ve wanted—and this helped me to make it, when I look back over my life and see all the ups and downs I have had. I had one man, and had all my children. My children couldn’t say—you know some children’ll say, “You ain’t none of my daddy. Get off my daddy.” But my children can’t say that. I had them all from one man. One daddy, that’s what I wanted to have, and that’s what I got. He wasn’t a very good father, but at least I made him a good father because I didn’t mess around. I lived with that one man, the same man that had all my children, that’s what I wanted, yeah. And they were Kinsey. Kinsey until I





remarried the second time. And if he wasn’t a good man, I wouldn’t’ve married him. But he was a good man. He was a veteran.

	N:	What war was he a veteran of? J:	Of the Army.

	N:	What war was he in?



	J:	He was way back when. Huh. I don’t know what, but he was way back then. N:	That’s good.

	J:	I can’t think of what year he was in there, but way back. And he had never been married until after he met me and married me. He was single all his life. And after he met me, and he told me, he said, “I want to marry you.” I said, “Me?” He say, “Yeah.” I said, “Okay, you going take care of me?” And he said, “Yeah, I’m going take care of you.” So I went on and married him, and he been the nicest husband to me. I ain’t had to worry about nothing. Nothing. He kept me a good car. I would take my children out, and he would go with us, and we’d go out to eat. Have a nice time; a beautiful life.

	N:	That’s good.



	J:	Yeah. And now, one time before I married this man, I thought I met somebody real nice, and I found that he wasn’t nice. Get away. You know how when you single you be looking for someone? That what I was doing, I was looking for somebody. I didn’t find nobody. And I married my husband and I stayed with him all those many years, until he died. Yep.

	N:	You have any final thoughts, Ms. Jones? J:	Final thoughts?





	N:	Yes ma’am. We’re wrapping up.



	J:	Yeah well onliest thing, I just thank God for keeping me and helping me to get ‘round. I can visit out here. I can go to church out here. And I can go to programs, I can go to Bingo. [Laughter] I can go everywhere out here. I get in this wheelchair, and I get round, all the way around here. Yeah.

	N:	That’s good. I’m glad. Thank you so much for letting me interview you. J:	Yeah did I suit you?

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Jennifer Romero, October 8, 2015 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, June 28, 2018

	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 26, 2019