AAHP 043; Mickle; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 043 Andrew Mickle African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Ronald LaFrance on June 7, 2010 1 hour, 23 minutes | 33 pages



Abstract: Andrew Mickle grew up in Camden, South Carolina, and after serving in the US military he attended Bethune-Cookman College. Upon graduating, he began teaching at Lincoln High School in Gainesville, Florida, where he was particularly remembered for teaching tailoring and swimming to students. Today, there is a public swimming pool named after him in Gainesville for that reason. Mr. Mickle reflects on the qualities that made Lincoln meaningful to its faculty and alumni, and discusses how integration was implemented in Alachua County.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Education; Swimming; Lincoln High School; Integration]















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 043

Interviewee: Andrew Mickle Interviewer: Ronald LaFrance Date: June 7, 2010



	L:	I'm Ronald LaFrance from the University of Florida Oral History department. I'm here interviewing Mr. Andrew Mickle. Let's start off simple: can you tell me about your childhood or your parents.

	M:	Hello, I'm Andrew Mickle I'm a teacher from Lincoln High School and of course Santa Fe Community College and I did some work for the city of Gainesville. I was not born in Florida; I was born in South Carolina. Camden, South Carolina. That's a small town north east of Columbia, Columbia is the capital and big town because of the University of South Carolina is there. I was born in Camden, went to school at Mather Academy which is a private long boarding institution. It's been done away with now, nothing’s there but a sign but it was boarding school, seventh through twelfth; and of course right after graduation I went into the military. I had a year to wait because when you get in: number one, you don't move because you know you’re gonna be called and so I had to wait about eight months before I actually went to the service. I was in the service four years; I went into the European theater of operation. That's France, German, and Holland. I got a couple of battle stars. Went over to V-Day 6; that's about 6.

Came back, had a little problem so I had to wait about a year to be sure my health was right; had a problem with depression. Finally after a year under the GI Bill of Rights I was advised to try to enter college, but at that time all the Black college was full of veterans. A&T, North Carolina State, Howard University they'd put you off for two or three years before they could accept you. Then I had a brother who had done some military duty down at Tampa, Florida and he told me





there was a school in Daytona Beach by the name of Bethune-Cookman. He said, “I bet they might accept you.” So I sent my application there and I was accepted. I was told to come and bring a blue suit, that's all it said: come and bring you a blue suit. And of course, I finished Bethune-Cookman with a degree in math and associated art degree in a vocational course which is tailoring. So I got six years of work for four years; I think I'm the last one they let do that at the university. They don't let you do that now. And of course I went into business in Daytona Beach for about six or seven years and had a little health problem and the doctor told me because of my heart maybe I should change careers cause I was worrying too much about my business, about the business I was doing. And that was in about 1955; I graduated in [19]50 from Bethune University. I submitted a application to Lincoln high school, which is the old Lincoln High School. Professor A Quinn Jones was principal and he told me yes he needed a teacher in my vocation which is also certified in tailoring. He said, “I need a teacher, and you're in good time to actually design your laboratory. Say it won't be until next year when we move into the new school, but we're glad to have you if come aboard.” And I was hired. They gave me six years of experience so I started out at the top of the teachers pay at that time. Of course, after that I took some classes at the university and got my masters degree. My original degree was in mathematics, but my graduate degree is in Supervision and Administration of Vocational Technical Education. I worked about seven or eight years for the Santa Fe Community College, the Community Education Program, under Dr. Chester Leathers. I was relieved from the school board on contract to





do that. So when this Community Ed Program was dissolved at Santa Fe Community College, I was able to come back to the school board with out any problems; because I have submitted a letter asking for leave of absence, and each year I had to renew that request. I thought that was fortunate, of course at that time Lincoln had been closed in what, [19]69? We went through a lot of problems with that too, but basically that's what it was and that's it had been. I put in 37 years, and 7 years credit in the system and retired. I’ve been retired now about 18 years.

	L:	That's good. So you said you went to World War 2?



	M:	Yes, this was World War II . I went to the European Theater of Operations, that's in Europe. I was in chemical warfare service. The outfit was really one that dealt with smoke generators; that means that covering a target and the airplane couldn't see it. We could cover a city the size of Gainesville in five minutes because we had machines stationed all around, like a loop around the city, and we move everyday according to which way the wind was going and we stayed up wind and if a plane would come to destroy lets say Gainesville, we'd be given orders to poop, by the time they got here they couldn't see nothing but a big cloud of...

	L:	Smoke?



	M:	Smoke that has been covering the city. That was General Patton's idea. He said, “If you can see it, you can't hit it.” We smoked out crossing the Rhine River too; that's how we got across, we smoked it out. They didn't know where we were going, and when they looked we were over there. The smoke generator, that was





in Camp Sibert in Alabama. Camp Sibert was used by the United States Army as a training center Chemical Service during WWII]. That's where I took my training for a year at that time. Now this was before integration, so we were all-Black battalion; twelve companies, each company had about 250 men in it. This is a battalion of men, so it was a big outfit. We shipped off from Camp Shanks over to ETO and had some rough experiences, but I made it back.

	L:	So did that shape you in what you wanted to do when you came back to stateside or—?

	M:	Remember I said when I came back I had problems with depression. And at that time doctors didn't know how to handle it.

	L:	Post traumatic stress disorder?



	M:	That's right, something like that; but I was so anxious to get out of the military. See, when you being put out of the military, you want to go home. When they say, “Anything wrong with you?” the answer was, “Oh no, nothing wrong with me.” But you was sick, some people lie. Anyway, I had a problem and it took me about a year to get over it. An old doctor didn't know how to treat it, but he told my mother to let me go back to the very same job that I was doing before I went to the military. That got me over it, I think I worked there a year and then I my head got kinda clear. That's when I was advised to go to college, and of course I told you about Bethune University, how I got there.

	L:	What was that job before the war?



	M:	I was a tailor. I was a tailor and I do it now. I tailored for Santa Fe Community College, in the clothing design department there. I tailored at Lincoln High





School; it was a tailoring class. I taught at Eastside High School the very same thing, and I got some students who are in business doing alterations right now. Some of them —you know vocational education at that time was basically what we called students who were not going to college but had to get a job somewhere—and that was one of the vocations that prepared them. Tailoring, auto mechanics, building construction, masonry, beauticians, clerical typing, all those were vocational courses. Two years, a student that was in the class for three hours, not one hour, three hours, so 1,080 hours in two years, that can prepare you to be employable. That's what we had at that time.





	L:	Sounds good. So, growing up, did you have a family background? Can we get into that?

	M:	My family background? Remember, I'm 90 years old. L:	Is it hard to remember?

	M:	Yeah I guess, I remember. I came up in a—remember I told you I went to Mather, which was Mather Academy which is a boarding school; top of the line for private schools. A wealthy White lady, who my mother was working for, told my mother take her children take her children out of public school and put them in private school. And she paid her additional salary to pay my tuition to Mather and, of course um I participated in sports. I played football, basketball, I ran track, and I was an avid tennis player. In fact, I coached tennis at Old Lincoln, and had a championship tennis team at Old Lincoln; state championship before integration. I have trophies all around. [Laughter] And, of course, I also could swim.





	L:	I heard about the swimming legend. M:	Ah, yes, that happened in 1966.

	L:	Can we get into that a little bit M:	Swimming?

	L:	Yeah



	M:	Well, when T.B. McPherson, who is the head of the athletic department at Lincoln, found out that I could play tennis, he just asked me to, you know, to be a tennis coach. I did, and they give you a subside to be a tennis coach. Then, he asked me could I swim, I told him yes; and he said, “Well, next year, the city is going to build a swimming pool in Southeast Gainesville. Do you think you can qualify to manage that pool?” I told him yes, probably in the summer I could. He said, “You better try!” So the summer of 1966, I went to Jacksonville and stayed a month. I qualified water saving instructor, qualified in life guard, I qualified in first aid, and I qualified in pool management swimming pool management. In six weeks in Jacksonville. I came back to Gainesville and laid it all on T.B.'s desk.

He says,“ Next summer the pool will be built.” So in [19]67 they built Lincoln pool, which is the first public pool for Gainesville. Technically, I was the aquatics director for Gainesville ‘cause there was the only pool, Lincoln pool was the only pool. And we had crowds of people coming, oh boy, the crowds was so large we had to divide the section. It was open from 1 to 2; and turn them out and then get another group from 2 to 4 and then adult maybe from 4 to 6. Swimming went over so well they integrated it into the summer program. Summer program was different from what it is now. Summer program was operated by public schools





and teachers operated centers at they school during the summer; students came to that school for the activities during the summer just like they did during the winter but when things were active; that’s at Newberry, Alachua, High Springs, Archer, Hawthorne. So, they put swimming in their summer program. So they told the school board to have a bus to take my people to Gainesville.

	L:	So do you think the pool helped bridged the racial divide in Gainesville? M:	Do I think what? Repeat that question.

	L:	Do you think the pool helped bridged the racial divide in Gainesville? M:	Poor?

	L:	No the pool.



	M:	Oh the swimming pool! Yes, yes; swimming pool and tennis because right now some of my swimmers are at leading positions. One of two of my swimmers got a scholarship to college on a swimming scholarship. Remember, the city didn't give me anything for coaching the swim team, they just allowed me to do it at the pool. At that time the Whites had the AAU. You heard about it haven't you? The Amateur Athletic Union, and we had Florida Recreation Association; that's what the Blacks had. And we did softball, baseball, swimming, not football. Florida Athletic Association, that's the association we swam under. Right now high school and what not, swim under Florida High School Association. What we swam under Florida Recreation Association during the summer and we played tennis during it. And we'd have tennis meets in Jacksonville. Swimming meets in Jacksonville. I don't know where almost every pool in Florida, that was because we went there to swim. Swam in Tallahassee, swam in Jacksonville, two pools in





Jacksonville, we swam in Ocala, we swam in West Palm Beach, in Orlando, we swam in oh some places north of – I don’t know, like, seven or eight places right around here that we swam. Now the city didn't give us any money to travel, so I had to qualify as a bus driver and requisition a bus during the summer to drive the bus to take the swimmers to Tampa to the swim meets. And I did it. But the way I did it, I was qualified in first aid. The state required that bus drivers had first aid training. So, I joined the bus drivers training class and I taught them first aid. [Laughter] And I learned bus driving; I got a bus driving certificate so I could use it to drive, so it was an exchange. Swimming has been a beautiful thing, I still do swimming.

	L:	Yeah because I saw that on Google Maps that you have a swimming pool named after you.

	M:	Yeah that's right, oh that's T.B. McPherson Center, but I have one right there in the backyard. We teach young people how to swim, that's all. Really, I taught thousands of people because for several years, each one of these cities that I mentioned would bring busloads of people. They weren't interested in recreations swimming, they said, “We want lessons.” So I had to train my life guards how to teach swimming to a busload of people, but look what we did to the county!

	L:	That's amazing! So, they would send White kids too? M:	No! This is before integration.

	L:	Oh that's why I was thinking that was amazing.



	M:	This was in [19]65 and integration was [19]69; but pools weren't integrated necessary then.





	L:	So Gainesville built a pool for the Black community? M:	Yes, for the Black community.

	L:	That's shocking!



	M:	First pool in Gainesville was for Blacks. I mean no, no. At that time there was segregation, so when they put something in the Black community it was understood. Now we had a very liberal recreation director. So he would let me do what ever I was trained to do. He didn't bother me long as I kept things safe. You know where Northeast pool is?

	L:	No



	M:	Up there where the ballpark? L:	Oh yeah.

	M:	Do you know the name of it? L:	Yes, it was named after you.

	M:	No, that's Dwight Hunter's pool; Dwight Hunter was the recreational director at the time.

	L:	Oh okay.



	M:	Now GRU did me a favor, because there's always technical stuff like operating pool equipment, keeping the water clean. GRU allowed one of their chemical engineers, his named was Dick Volt. He's passed on now and retired, I think he passed on. But he would come out to Lincoln Pool for one hour each evening and we would sit and he would tell me how to use the chlorine, the soda ash, how to operate the equipment, and all that chemistry about pools. And when three pools the city built, it built Northwest pool, then next that's Spurgeon





Cherry, that's out on 34th that's the big pool, that's our honey bun. Then, they built Northeast pool. Alright, being a public pool it had to be inspected by the state. Through, I think every quarter some people came, and Lincoln pool always got top rating as far as its chemicals, its surroundings, and its cleanliness is concerned. Lincoln pool was kept clean. I don't know exactly why they decided to close Lincoln pool. But the city decided to close Lincoln pool and build another pool at least about five blocks from down here at T.B. McPherson Center. And of course, I think the recreation board lobbied the city at that time to name the pool Andrew Mickle Pool, that's why we have Andrew Mickle Pool down there. But I did, I have never worked a day at Andrew Mickle Pool. I've coached swimming team there; an AAU swimming team after integration, we'd have swim meets at Northwest. But I've never ran that pool, I did volunteer work there. And I help them out anyway, in fact, I'm passing out brochures right now all over Southeast Gainesville saying to come to Andrew Mickle Pool because, well it's kinda hard for some people to pay the fee over a dollar, or a dollar and thirty something cent, for a kid to swim and they got two or three kids. So we trying to do something to get scholarships for these students who cannot pay and want to go swimming; and of course the money will go to the recreational department as a scholarship for free swim for kids, that's our plan. That's what we'd like to see, because the city feels that it can not continue to operate a facility unless there is a lot of responding to it. But that's basically the problem; Southeast Gainesville just don't have that kind of money, but they want to swim. They want to learn to swim. They bring their little children here now and I teach to swim. But you never





hear of a Black person getting drowned in Alachua County! We said we were gonna water proof Alachua County and that's what we been trying to do. So far, so good.

	L:	So can you tell me about Lincoln since you taught there, you didn't actually get educated there.

	M:	Lincoln High School? L:	Yeah

	M:	Remember I came up in [19]55, we were at the old school. We moved to the new school in [19]56 ,[19]57. That's when Prof Jones told me. “You're just in time!

They’re building the new school. You got a chance to design your classroom.” So we moved in new Lincoln High in, I believe in 1957. And the new Lincoln High School was a top facility for schools in Florida. We had a rotunda shaped auditorium; we had the biggest gym in Gainesville. Right now, Lincoln's got a big gym; it's a middle school if you ever go there, that's a big gym. We had a chorus suite with, what they called? Elevated steps. We had a band room with individual practice rooms; still got it Lincoln Middle still got that, the individual practice rooms .The two tennis courts right out behind Lincoln, of course they dissolved that now, I think they building houses there, but there were two tennis courts right behind Lincoln. There was a track field, there was a football practice field, there's a baseball diamond down in the corner, and there's a softball field like a softball field. Do you know any other school that has all those facilities right there?

Alright, that's what we're talking about. The new Lincoln High School was top of the line as far as high schools concerned in Florida because we had everything





right there and the administration and the teachers and all are very dedicated and it was a beautiful program. Of course, integration came and changed that.

	L:	So I take it you didn't really like integration? M:	Beg your pardon.

	L:	Did you like integration?



	M:	Did I like it? [Laughter] Well, integration was not what Blacks asked for. We asked for separate but equal, for ten years. Just give us separate but equal! Just give Lincoln the same books and band and what not that you give other schools. That did not happen, that did not happen. So the leading Black said, “We'll get you, we'll make you integrated.” So we went to the federal government and you know the problems we had with integration. Now as far as I'm concerned, whether I like it or not, I'm about 50/50; it has some good values and it has some bad values.

	L:	So do you feel like integration was good but they just went about it the wrong way?

	M:	I don't know. They went about integration probably I'm not gonna say the best way, but the best way they knew. Which meant that we was we were absolved.

	L:	So do you feel that-



	M:	Yeah we were absolved. We weren't integrated we, was absolved. And we doing right now, I mean it's getting better, but right now it's segregation within the class in some classrooms. We separate ourselves. They separate themselves right in the classrooms. So integration has a 50/50; it's in the balance.





	L:	Did you participate in any of the protesting and the walk outs of the closing of Lincoln High School?

	M:	No that was mostly led by students. That was led by the students; they marched, protested, fought.

	L:	How did that make you feel? Good?



	M:	Well we felt good by seeing the students that we have been teaching came up against the establishment. You see because we are paid by the school board, I can't as a teacher go there and you know me telling the superintended—the students can and they cursed them out and all types of things. We had student leaders who actually led the protest for the Lincoln. And they still protesting, they are still protesting!

	L:	So after Lincoln closed were you still able to easily find work or did you have too-



?



	M:	After Lincoln closed, it stayed closed for I think two years. L:	Then they turned it into Lincoln Middle?

	M:	No, Santa Fe opened it as vocational technical center. L:	Oh okay.

	M:	And integrated it 45-55. But remember, two years earlier, the reason why they closed Lincoln they said because they couldn't integrate it. A year later Santa Fe opened as a vocational technical center, a ratio of 45-55: 45 Black, 55 White. It's a beautiful situation, but there were only vocational technical courses there like drafting, tailoring, masonry, carpentry, nursing, cosmetology, things like that. We had a lot a lot of vocational courses. And of course, Santa Fe [Laughter] so how





good it was and they had a new building way out there they said, “Goodness let’s take this over and move it out on our campus.”

	L:	So do you feel like umm, let me think how to word this, do you think the vocational programs that Santa Fe opened benefited the community more or did Lincoln High School benefit the community more? The old Lincoln High School.

	M:	A lot of these old fellas you see walking around here 65 and 70 years old was tradesmen, they was trained at Lincoln.

	L:	So you think Lincoln was...



	M:	That's right, they were trained at Lincoln. Now Santa Fe cut out some of the vocational. I think they kept cosmetology, they kept nurse training, and I think they kept—I don't know all of them, but Santa Fe only kept some of the vocational classes. The other teachers went back to the classroom at that time. I went back to Eastside High School not Lincoln, Lincoln became a middle school. The money factor in vocational technical education changed at that time, you got much more money for a vocational technical course than you did for an English course from the state; and it's still that way. It's still that way. But that's what happened and I'm not sure that it's not needed. That's why we got some much unemployment now and some many students don't know what to do or nothing and to engage themselves in. Wherein, if they were trained in some kind of occupation, even though this a technical age, it's still a lot of things that we can carry as a vocational course. When I say as a vocational course, that means giving a student enough training in it, in two years to make them employable.

	L:	So you feel as if you should have an old style Lincoln High School curriculum?





	M:	Not necessary, we should have a school that involves the technicalities that we got going now, but there should be a two year program cut off where a student could become qualified in some kind of computer science or computer design or something like that or drafting or electrical. I'm high on all of the electric training for students; yes, because the collection quarters is changing every year. How many Black and certified electricians do you know in Alachua County?

	L:	Not many.



	M:	Not many. Now we have some gentlemen who send somebody who worked on the. In order words, the man who put the roof on this house, he was not a certified roofer. There's only one certified roofer in Gainesville, Alachua County; and he told me, “Mr. Mickle, he'll do you a good job and I'll sign for him.” [Laughter] He said, “Yeah, he's not certified and he told me his name is Carter I'm the only Black certified roofer in Alachua County.” But there's plenty room for work isn't it. You see what I’m saying?

	L:	Yeah



	M:	Now this guy working, got a nice home, supporting a family, driving nice car, roofing, but he's not certified. He can do the business. He learned it probably on the job training. That don't only say on the job training for certain occupations or trades, but it's done by the contractors, you see? It's done by the contractors and they accept who they want too.

	L:	So can we go back to your family life, you said your mother was working for a rich White woman?





	M:	Yes, Camden is a small, clean town but a private school, a big private school, make a lot of difference in the kind of see I'm high on private schools, I am. I'm high on private schools; everybody's not. But Camden is a town that Mather Academy had made; they called it a little college. They called it, “That little college out there, Mather,” but it was a high school. I moved several times. I was born way out in the country. Then I moved a little closer to town; but I lost a year in school. Then I moved in town and I lost a year in school. You know what I mean? It say, “You come from a country school, this is a great joint.” Then I transferred I went one year to the public school, which is Jackson, and transferred into Mather and they said, “Well, you're still in the second grade.” So by moving I lost four years of my education. [Laughter]

	L:	So did you—?



	M:	Let me finish tell you about my mother and my father. My father was a wonderful man. I've never seen him angry, I never heard him use a curse word, I never seen him abuse my mother, he is well liked by everyone I know. His name is Willis Mickle. But he was -do you know what a mulatto is? He was a mulatto. I can show you his picture now; he looked like a White person, but he wasn't. And he came out of slavery. Of course when a White son went into slave quarters and produced children the White family would take those children to the big house where they were and raised them. Yeah, they wouldn't let them stay down in the—my father's people were Quakers; if you look up Quakers you find it's a strong sect. And they are they are very strict on how they live, but they are some wayward women and some wayward ones; that's why we have a mixed race in





Camden. My daddy had five or six; four boys and two girls that this White man fathered with my grandmother who was a slave.

	L:	So growing up did you really experience a lot of racism? M:	Remember I went to Mather.

	L:	And that was integrated?



	M:	Yes, yes we had White instructors. [Laughter] Now we had one or two Blacks that coached, you know what I mean? But yeah, I just couldn't see it.

	L:	When did you first experience like Jim Crow?



M:  Military [Laughter] The military because the only work I've ever done is tailoring and alterations; and my first job was right downtown in the middle of the town in the barber shop doing alterations. The only people—at that time a Black barber shop was either Black or White; and this barber shop only Whites came to it.

They couldn't cut Black people hair in it and I had a tailor shop in there, a little alteration shop in there and I did alterations for five or six stores. I made more money when I was in tenth grade than a school teacher, so I didn't I didn't feel any of that you know racism. I knew it existed, I was told about it, but just to experience, never did, never did and I feel that way today. I feel that way today. You know some people say, it's nowhere in the world for you to feel that way when you deal with them because I don't see that. Andrew Mickle doesn't see that. I see another person when I look at one of them.

	L:	That's good, so do you



M:   Now all of us not like that. [Laughter] But remember, I had a good daddy; he was a minister. I went to church. I was teaching Sunday school when I was twelve





years old, and I was president of BTU at age thirteen. So I’ve been in church all of my life.

	L:	So would you say that your father's upbringing made a huge impact on your life?



	M:	Not only my father, I had a strong mother. My mother was a Belton, my father was a Mickle. The Mickle's all over Camden are really strong, the mayor's Mickle, you know what I mean? But you know there's a mixing somewhere and when you say, “Mickle,” they look at you and say, “Yeah, I know you, I know your parent.” Alright, I don't want to get too far off from your question; now what were you asking?

	L:	Oh, did your father's upbringing make a huge positive impact?



	M:	Not only my father, but I had a good mother. My mother was a Belton. And, get this now because it's very unique: The Mickles, who were Quakers, owned the Belton's as slaves. [Laughter] And when the Beltons—when the slaves were free—at that time, if the master had been good to his slave, they would take his name. And the slave master that owned my mother's father was named Belton Mickle. His son impregnated my grandmother, Belton was his name. So the Belton's very strong in Camden because my grandfather's tombstone was in the Belton Cementary and the writing on it will show that he was born in slavery, but he died a freeman. Because the slave owners were Quakers, remember I told you Belton Mickle, I got a whole book on Belton Mickles [gets up to get the book]. All of them Quakers, what does that say Kershaw county? Kershaw county, okay. The Belton's, the Quakers, did not believe in outright slavery, because of their





religion. They believe in, what you call it giving a person a little money for what they were doing? Indentured servants, you ever heard of that?

	L:	Yes sir.



	M:	They didn't treat them as outright slaves, they want to say you're an indentured servant. So my grandfather saved his money as an indentured servant, as Belton Mickle's slave. [Laughter] And when he was freed he bought a thousands acres of land at one dollar an acre. You know how much of it I got now? Two hundred acres, my grandfather's share. He was my great grandfather, that's who we talking about, that's not my grandfather. My great grandfather came out of slavery and bought a thousand acres at one dollar an acre and divided it up among all of his children. And he gave each one 80-90 acres and most of them had a little house, a little three bedroom house on it. My grandfather was one of them, one of my great grandfather's son; his named was John Belton.

	L:	So you said you still have the land in South Carolina? M:	Yes! Still have it.

	L:	Is there any, did you keep or are you gonna keep any historical significance of the land? Are you gonna change anything or leave it the same?

	M:	Well there was a house on it. The house has been torn down. Now there was a Caucasian family, who a relative had done a favor for my relative. I was told that if this White family needed some land to give them, sell them a homestead, so I sold them. They said we gotta move and I said okay I gotta direction what to do for you I'll sell you this much land. They’re are like brothers and sisters to us right now. We go up there go to their house, they live on my property, but they only





have a little share in it. The other is all around it. I have not developed it; we are planning to do some kind of development right now. I have a grand daughter, Stephanie, Stephanie Mickle. She works in Washington with Senator Nelson, in Senator Nelson's office.

	L:	I saw your son is a judge actually.



	M:	Yeah that's —his name is Stephan. That's Stephanie's father. L:	Oh wow

	M:	And he's a federal judge for life. He's district judge, he has four or five states. L:	So your son

	M:	He's a graduate of the University of Florida L:	Oh really? Do you know when he graduated?

	M:	Oh! I can go show you his picture. I'm not sure about the year, but he and George Allen were together. You heard of George Allen?

	L:	No I haven't.



	M:	George Allen is the first Black there. L:	Oh okay.

	M:	And Stephan Mickle was the first undergraduate.



	L:	Okay so he was one of the—basically a milestone at UF.



	M:	Who? They're writing a book about him. Dr. McCarthy at the University of Florida is writing a book on our family. I don't know if this is connected to you or not?

	L:	Maybe in the future. [Laughter]



	M:	Yeah but, Dr. McCarthy is doing a book and he, everything we tell him or say to him everything I say to him, he go and verify. He's been to Camden, he's been to





Belton Cemetery, he's been to Mather Academy that I went to, he said nothing there but the sign. I told him I grew up with Larry Doby. You know who Larry Doby was?

	L:	No Sir.



	M:	Do you know who Jackie Robinson was? L:	Yes sir.

	M:	Okay they never said anything about Larry Doby, but he was the first integrated ball player in the American League. Jackie Robinson was the first in the National League. Larry Doby was the first in the American League, and he was my teammate. In Camden right now the big sign says, “You are entering the hometown of Larry Doby.” Larry Doby passed not long ago, but we were we were baseball teammates. Alright so Dr. McCarty, everything I tell him you go and certify because he's writing a book on Stephan.

	L:	So did you give him any aspirations to be in politics? M:	No, his major was history

	L:	Oh just like me.



	M:	Alright, he had one year of teaching and of course he took the test and went down to good old Daytona Beach and teaching one year and he came up and said, “Daddy I gotta score high enough to get me in the University of Florida Law School, I better go in there now before they raise it, raise it too high and I can't get in.” He sold his car moved in this house and attended the University. I think there's a classroom out there named after him, named for judge. He teaches, taught law at the University of Florida, taught law at FSU; but he teaches every





Thursday night at the University of Florida. Right now, he's on his way to Destin. You know where Destin, Florida is? You know where Pensacola is? Destin is down towards there, very exquisite town. The judges are meeting this weekend and I shouldn't assume this, but I am assuming that they're meeting to get ideas of how to handle the persecutions that coming in from the oil spill. All of them gonna be doing basically the same thing so all of the judges are meeting at Destin weekend. I haven't talked to Stephan, but I know he's going there.

	L:	Interesting. So, I’m going a little off topic there, do you think any of your upbringing, you or your wife, do you think it would influence him to want to go to school?

	M:	Yeah I have four sons. The judge, Andrew graduated from the University of Florida with a degree in—what's this water science? Geology. And he was working for the St. John's River Authority, you ever heard of that? He was a geologist for St. John River Authority, but he passed about six years ago, his name was Andrew. And Jeffrey, we just talked to Jeffrey, he's a guidance counselor down in Ocala. And Darrell he's a veterinarian in Atlanta.

	L:	Oh so all of your kids went and got an education?



	M:	All of them, but it was only four boys. Now, I didn't necessary influence either one to go to either discipline; as you can see ones in law, one's in geology, ones in education, ones in veterinary science. That's a course of action they took on their own. They all went to the university. That's the veterinary, and while there he worked at the animal clinic on 6th street, that's how it struck him. And he said, “I like veterinary.” So, when he graduated from the university, he wanted to go to





the veterinarian school. University of Florida opened the veterinarian school the year he graduated and they told him it's crowded. What me to say that again? He graduated and wanted to enter the veterinary school the year they opened the school at the University of Florida, and they told him it was crowded.

	L:	So what did he have to do to finish the veterinarian school?



	M:	I got a frat brother who had finished Tuskegee. You ever heard of Tuskegee? The best vet school in the country, that's right Tuskegee. So I said to my frat brother, “What can you do man, my son wanna go over there.” “Oh I'll see what I can do for you.” Cause the frat brother is the head of the department up there.

	L:	Oh so you—?



	M:	He went to Tuskegee.



	L:	So you were in a fraternity?



	M:	Don't you see that magazine I have? Where's that magazine? [looks for magazine]

	L:	Alpha Phi Alpha



	M:	You a Greek?



	L:	Aw no. Did you join the fraternity for—?



	M:	I was chartered at Bethune University when I was a junior, my second year there.



Going into the third year, I was chartered in Delta Beta. We celebrated the 50th year; I got a lot of stuff from them, but I was sick I couldn't go. Remember I'm 90 years old. I had a triple bypass, I got five stents, but I still teach swimming.

	L:	I didn't know you were that old, I thought you were in your 60's. You look very young.





	M:	No, I was born in [19]21.



	L:	So I'm trying to think. Okay this is a good question. How did you feel about the past election of Barack Obama?

	M:	I think they elected the best man. I think they elected a good man. Obama's a good man, he's well trained and he has some good people working with him.

	L:	Did you see it as a historical move or you just saw it as just another man being elected as president?

	M:	I saw it as being time. It's time for it. It was time for it. Yeah, you know back in Martin Luther King days that would've happened, you know what I mean. A few years ago that never would've have happened. But here comes a man with that kind of knowledge, and that kind of fluent speech and knows what he's talking about, and with some programs; we voted for the best man. Which mean America has come a long way. We still got a long way to go, and I'm proud to be an American. I would've died for America in the war even back then, but we've come a long way. We've come you don't have too much trouble out there you know? [Laughter] Hardly any, right?

	L:	Yeah.



	M:	Well when Stephan went to the university, my son, one person spoke to him on that campus. Teachers didn't call on him to recite. But the janitor spoke to him; only one while he was there. Now compare that to what is happening to you now.

	L:	So, did you participate in any Civil Rights Movements?





	M:	Only membership and contribution. I never marched, very seldom you find educators, you know a school teacher and what not, going into things like that. I did support it. No, I never marched.

	L:	So were you in any other societies or fraternities?



	M:	Oh yeah, I'm a Gideon, that's the Bible people. I was on the board of NHD, the Neighborhood Housing Development. I'm in the Black-on-Black Crime Task Force. I am on chairman board of Gardenia Garden. You ever heard of Gardenia Garden?

	L:	Excuse me?



	M:	It's out on 8th Avenue, Why don't you come to my church one Sunday? L:	I can try to do that.

	M:	Good, on 8th Avenue and go to 25th; you can't miss it, big church right there. L:	Okay

	M:	Church service start at ten o’clock not eleven, ten o’clock. Go straight down east 8th avenue to 25th on that small corner right there, okay. We own Gardenia Garden Apartments which is on 8th avenue; that's a hundred units public housing. I am chairman board and I've been on that board for forty-seven years. I'm a member of Bethune-Cookman University Alumni Association. I'm on the board of directors of the charter school down there at Dr. Sherman Johnson, who was a professor at the University of Florida, opened several years ago. I had about fifteen different things I go to. But it keep you busy. But It has to be done, somebody's gotta do. As a young man getting educated, I hope you see it that way; that even though you getting a education you have a responsibility to





those—remember I told you who spoke to Stephan—one person. Teachers didn't call on him to recite in class or nothing like that; you think that he let that stop him? Okay, you don't have it that way now, but you have some doors to open.

	L:	So are you doing all the community organization work you do, do you do it because you feel like you need to—?

	M:	It's volunteer, none of it is paid. I feel that there's a need for it and, that's why I going to do it. There's a need for it, it has a purpose. I'm a Deacon in the church too, a Baptist church. Been one for, it's about fifty-two years.

	L:	So do you feel as if everything that you do right now, you'd still do it even if your life was different?

	M:	Yes everything I do now I feel that it has some value, to not necessary Blacks, to our country. Despite everything, Black-on-Black Crime Taskforce, that led me to GPD, that's about 50/50. See—most of them policemen, I go there because I think it's a need for the dialogue between the two of us you see that, that kind of thing. Same thing down here with the charter school, there's a need for it.

	L:	So is there anything big in your life that you haven't told me about that you want to tell me?

	M:	I think that I am blessed. Because I don't let things bother me and I don't take a high on something or a low on something, right down the line. So nothing worried me, and I see fun in everything, and I see God in everything.

	L:	So do you think that growing up in the Jim Crow age really didn't have any big effects on you or?





	M:	I think going to Mather Academy where there were White teachers, not White students, White teachers, White principals, White superintendent, White music teacher, White everything, White English teacher. I think that did something to my mind. [Laughter] Because the more association you have with the different races, the better or the different kind of thinking you have. You see what I mean? See since Obama been president there’s a lotta person thinking a little different now. He is a good man, we voted for a good man. The same thing as you go now, the more the more relationship you have with the University of Florida, you tell people, “Man I'm a Gator!” There was a time we wouldn't even mention that of some people. Yeah, yes.

	L:	So the academy that you went to was, it wasn't integrated it was just White teachers, but all Black students?

	M:	It was owned by the Women’s Home Missionary Society, and they were White people who came down to educate minority students at a sacrifice salary. That’s what the school was built on.

	L:	Were they from up North?



	M:	Yes a lot of them was from up North; some of them come from South, but they were church people. In other words at Mather I took Bible from 2nd till 12th. And you wouldn't think about taking a Bible class from—I was in Bible from 2nd till 12th. That was one of my classes, that was a required class at Mather; of course it was Bible stories and Bible study, but it was a class. Yes, I think that, my experiences at Mather gave me my foundation. In other words, if I knew that wealthy White woman today—her name was Misses Dues—and you know how





she had to do it? She says—my name mother's name Grace. She says, “Grace, I will raise your salary to pay your children's tuition to Mather, but I have to give it to you in cash, because I can't let these southern White people know that I am a rich northern lady paying my help more than they able to pay.” So my mother had to get paid in cash.

	L:	What did your mother do while she was help?



	M:	She was a chambermaid. Let me tell you what a chambermaid is: see, around Camden, a wealthy White person has a chauffeur, they have a yardman, they have a butler, they have a cook, they have a maid, they have a secretary, and they have a chambermaid. All in that one big house, and they don't work one penny. I said, “Mother how they live?” “They live off their interest. “[Laughter] Okay so you had those many people working in one house. And most of them was Black, the secretary is usually White. A chambermaid, meaning just what it says, my mother's responsibly was to stay in that ladies room, see that room is clean, see that her dress is all right, see that she has proper clothing to wear, see that she get her food brought up to her room or back down. But work in the house? No, just her chamber, a chambermaid. And she dressed in a black dress with little white apron and a white cap on; some, I haven't seen any of them like that.

	L:	Do you know what your father did?



	M:	My father, he was a little hard of hearing. But he worked for the railroad company which was a good job; freight agent for Southern Railroad Company. My chambermaid in what was considered a high salary for maid at that time, so I





didn't have any problems. I didn't have any problems. I made some mistakes as a young, but as far as—I've never been arrested. Yes I have, but it was a ticket. A ticket is some kind of arrest, you know what I mean? If you don't do what it says, they'll arrest you. You know like catch you speed or something, they give you a ticket you got so long, if don't do that you gonna get arrested. Now I have got a speeding ticket but I never got arrested. I never heard my daddy use a curse word, he was a beautiful man. So I feel the same way my father. Now my mother wasn't that way, my mother would scratch your eyes out, she wasn't raised in the big house. [Laughter]

	L:	So do you think would say you kinda lived, in today's terms, a middle class life?



	M:	Yes, but everything I got I worked for it. The property in South Carolina, it is no value for me as far as income is concerned. You see what I'm saying? I the only thing I do is pay the taxes on it, but this house and everything here I worked for it.

	L:	And you lived in this house for how long?



	M:	For sixty-something years, yeah, we were some of the first ones out here. But I did four jobs. I taught school during the day, I taught a class at night, I ran the pool during the summer and after school, and I got a little tailor shop in my house.

	L:	So when you were teaching did you also teach values or just-?



	M:	Oh yeah, and it was very noticeable, because remember I told you vocational course were designed for students who college wasn't expected of you. I was teaching tailoring and they had a TNI club, and I was teaching parliamentary procedure, and club activities and what not. To find out that most of my students





went to college, and the guidance counselor said, “Wait a minute this is backwards, and why are your students—?” I said I inspire them and tell them what they have to do and show them how they can do it. I give experience. Now this is right after integration, I had a student graduate from my class had straight A's. She had straight A's in the other subjects she had took at Lincoln. But when they gave 'em that student assessment test, she made the lowest score in the school. The guidance counselor said I can't understand that we gonna test her again. They test her again, she made a lower score. The guidance counselor I'm gonna help her, I'm gonna get her in that university some way. That girl have a PhD today. [Laughter] She has a PhD today, she's down in South Florida.

	L:	So do any of your-?



	M:	So yes, I inspired my students because of the way I felt about different things. L:	Do they still communicate with you?

	M:	Oh yes, I can't go to Lowes, I can't go nowhere-“Hi Mr. Mickle!”-If it isn't the swimming, it's somewhere someone I've touched in some way. I mean, I don't mind; it makes me feel good to know that I must have touched you in someway. I don't know them now, they old people 50 60 years old. Some of them have done pretty well, and some of them have not. You know Albert White?

	L:	No, I haven't met him?



	M:	You know Sherwin Henry? Sherwin Henry is commissioner. [Laughter] They were my swimmers. Albert White works at GRU and now he has some job at the city for public relations; he went to ENT on a swimming scholarship. And I can just go on and on.





	L:	Is there any experience that stuck to you the most while working at Lincoln?



	M:	The one thing I would say is the kind of corporation that I got as a teacher. They respected the things that I things that I did. They respected the tennis, they respected the swimming, they respected the first aid, and they respected me because I was president of the teachers association. I was the first “Teacher of the Year” for Alachua County, this was the year after integration.

	L:	Is there anything else that you want to tell me?



M:  So I'm very proud of that. That's about it I'm an old man but I'm happy, yeah I'm happy. I see my sons, I see my family. I know some of the things that I've done, people I've helped, so I'm happy. Just waiting on the date, that day, it's all up-

	L:	So can you give me a ballpark estimate of how many people you touched in your lifetime?

	M:	Oh my goodness, thousands. You know how many swimmers I had in that pool last year? 150. You know how many have already registered? 50. I'm gonna have 100—125 kids teaching swimming. They just add up; some of them came in yesterday and say, “I came to get an application for my cousin. Mr. Mickle you know me, you taught me to swim. I'm a junior in high school.” It's all over that way. I see some fellas look as old as I am. ”Mr. you don't remember teaching me swimming, do you?” And I'm thinking, “God, how am I supposed to remember you, what your name? Oh yeah, I remember that name.”

	L:	Another quick question, how do you feel about Lincoln High eventually turning into Lincoln Middle? Do you think it passes the legacy of Lincoln High?





	M:	I'll tell you what, it's the best-equipped middle school in the county, that means as facilities are concerned. I still think there's a need for Lincoln High School.

There's a need for it because Gainesville is East and West. East Gainesville is where most people who need help and the poor people live, you got some moved northwest, but the most of us are here. We don't like to be bused across town to balance things. So if they would open Lincoln as a high school you can integrate it just like Santa Fe did. Santa Fe did 55/45. There’s a lot of Lincoln students who feel the same way and they out fighting for it.

	L:	Do you think that it was unfair that they closed Lincoln instead of one of the White schools?

	M:	Yes



	L:	Do you think it was racial based or did they just close it because they honestly thought it was the best school to close?

	M:	They closed it because they didn't feel like they could integrate it. They closed it because the superintendent didn't feel like they could integrate. That mean's that they couldn't get White kids to come out here to it. Now I didn't approve of it, but it wasn't in my hands. No, I think the school board should have made an attempt, you see what I'm saying? Nothing makes a failure but what? A try. Nothing makes a failure but a try. They didn't try! And I could tell you a whole lot of other things that I'm not gonna put on that tape. [Laughter] Have somebody looking up my record at the University of Florida.

	L:	Well, is there anything else that you want to add?





	M:	No, but I think that the thing that you're doing is very good, because we don't have it in the history. The only thing you got for me is for verbal history.

	L:	Yeah Oral history basically you want to take not the official history.



	M:	So you have to keep that going because that's all you got. Oral history. All the things I told you about my grandparents; boy, we went to Camden went through the archives and said we the Mickles anything you want give me the history of this and it ain't there. It's not in history, it's not written. You know that was on of the treatments that was designated first: wipe out their history, make them has disrespect for each other, make them think the White man is God and so on. So, no.

	L:	Okay so you want to end it on that note?



	M:	Well I enjoyed talking with you and I look forward to getting my CD so I can tell you what I should erase or what you think I should erase and that kind of thing. But I think you're doing a good job and it's a special service that I think will really help the University and the city.

[End of interview]





	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019