AAHP 554; Brown, Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 554 Teresa Brown Interviewed by Julian Valdivia on March 6, 2018

45 minutes | 22 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Councilwoman Teresa Watkins Brown speaks about her early life with her family and the entrepreneurial skills they all possessed. She speaks about her education experiences during integration in the late 1960s to early 1970s. Ms. Brown then later delves into the the racial divide between the Black and White communities where she lived and they’re decline over the years as prominent areas.

Later on, Ms. Brown mentions the names of prominent leaders in her community and their contributions to the city.







Keywords: [African American History; Lee County; Alachua County; Segregation; Integration; Dunbar High; Civil Rights Movement]



AAHP 554

Interviewer: Julian Valdivia Interviewee: Teresa Brown Date: March 6, 2018





V:  This is Julian Valdivia with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. Today is Tuesday, March 6th, 2018. I’m here with Councilwoman Teresa Watkins Brown for the Lee County African American History Project. Mrs. Brown, thank you for doing this interview with us.

B:   You’re welcome. Thank you.



	V:	I want to start off with questions about your early life. My first question for you is when and where you born?

	B:	Fort Meyers, Florida. V:	Okay and the year? B:	January 10, 1957.

V:   Were you born in a hospital or at home?



	B:	I was born by midwife and her name was Mrs. Mayola Wells. V:	If you don’t mind me asking, what were your parents’ names? B:	Samuel B. Watkins sr. and Iola Curtis Watkins.

	V:	Okay. Were they from the area as well? B:	Yes.

V:   They were both born in Fort Meyers?





	B:	Actually, my dad was born in Ft. Meyers. My mom was born in what they used to call Iona, Florida, which is out where the beach area is now. That was called Iona, Florida, Harlem Height, that area out there.

	V:	Oh wow. Okay. Do you remember what they did for a living?



	B:	My mom, she worked as a maid off of McGregor Boulevard for the Clarksons, which he was an attorney. Then later on for the Shernans. I’m not really sure what Mr. and Mrs. Shernan’s job was. My father, he worked at the grocery store with his brother, and he also was cab driver during my early years of growing up.

	V:	Did your uncle, then, own the grocery store where you father worked? B:	Yes.

	V:	Okay. Do you remember what the name of the grocery store was? B:	It was called Watkins Grocery.

	V:	Watkins Grocery. Okay. Is that where your family got their produce from and stuff like that when you were growing up?

	B:	No, actually my grandfather Mack Curtis owned a farm in Harlem Heights so he was a farmer. He grew everything from carrots, peas, greens, watermelons, and all that kind of stuff. He had hogs. He had pigs. Most of everything that we had was grown there in Harlem Heights, so he provided that for us.

	V:	Do you remember at the time were there any big grocery chains in the area?



	B:	B&B Grocery store was one of the big chains when I was growing up as a child.





V:  Now, I’m going to start asking more about house life and stuff like that. Do you remember any specific chores or responsibilities you had in the house growing up?

	B:	Oh yes. It was eleven of us and we always had to make sure that when we got home from school that we cleaned up the house. My mom would wash the clothes, but we would have to make sure all the clothes was cleaned up. We had to make sure the dishes and all the kitchen was cleaned up and those kinds of things.

	V:	Okay, so you had eleven siblings. B:	Right.

	V:	Wow! [Laughter] If you don’t mind me asking too, did you know your grandparents when you were growing up?

	B:	Yes. I would visit them all the time.



	V:	Did they also grow up in the area too in Iona as well?



	B:	Yes. My grandparents actually moved down from Tallahassee, Florida. My grandmother actually came from Thomasville, Georgia. She met my grandfather and he was from Tallahassee. They ended up migrating here to Fort Meyers. It was a place that used to be where Dairy Queen long years ago, but Harvey England Funeral Home. It was a Dairy Queen like right there on the corner of Cleveland Avenue like going toward Victoria right in that area there. Over in that





area used to be called “Pinetucket.” That was a place where most of the African Americans and Blacks lived. Later on, they moved further east.

	V:	Were the grandparents I asked about, are they on your mom’s side or your dad’s side?

	B:	Okay. The grandparents from Tallahassee and Thomasville, Georgia was on my mom’s side.

	V:	What were their names?



	B:	Mac Curtis, Sr. and Iantha Curtis.



	V:	Did you know your grandparents on your father’s side? B:	Yes.

	V:	Where were they from?



	B:	The grandparents on my father’s side they also migrated from Tallahassee, Florida and Hawthorne Springs. My grandfather’s name on my dad’s side was Oscar Watkins.

	V:	Alright and your grandmother?



	B:	I’m sorry. My grandmother on my mother’s side name was Louisa. L-O-U-I-S-A. My grandmother’s name on my dad’s side was Iantha. I-A-N-T-H-A. Iantha Watkins.

	V:	Alright. Do you know why they moved from the Tallahassee area down to Fort Meyers?





	B:	I never really asked that question. V:	Too far back? [Laughter]

	B:	Yeah, so I’m not really sure what brought them further south from Tallahassee.



	V:	Now, I want to ask more about you when you were growing up and where you went school. I read on your bio before coming to this interview that you graduated from Cypress Lake High. Where did you go to elementary school?

	B:	First grade I started out at Franklin Park Eleementary. Later, I moved. Second through fifth grade I was at Dunbar Eleementary School. Sixth grade I went to Edison Park. Schools hadn’t integrated then, but they were allowing African Americans to migrate into White schools. My parents thought that for a better education for me they sent me to Edison Park.

	V:	Obviously, all the integration was happening after Brown v. Board of Education.



B:  Right. In 1969, that was the last graduating high school class of Dunbar High School here in Fort Meyers. Then in 1970, we all integrated into mixed, White schools.

V:  Do you remember any teachers that had an impact on you while you were in school?

	B:	Really, I had so many. My first grade teacher Mrs. Weaver. She’s still living. She was a great impact on me. Mrs. Kennedy who started the Easter Parade Program here, was my third grade teacher. Mrs. Ozzie Ruth was my fourth grade teacher, Mrs. Marian Grant was my fifth grade teacher. I can’t really





remember for some reason all of sixth grade teachers as much. Most of my early teachers had a great impact on me.

	V:	Since you were going to school during the, I guess you could say, “heyday” of the Civil Rights Movement, do you remember was there any activity from the students around you or yourself while the Civil Rights Movement was going on?

	B:	Yeah, it was a tough time for all of us as kids because For Meyers, as you know, was very segregated. You had Blacks on this side of the railroad track and you had Whites on the other of the railroad tracks. We would come downtown and you would see Whites. It was a time of Colored bathrooms and White bathrooms. Colored water fountains and White water fountains. We were not allowed in restaurants in the front door. We had to enter through the back doors. It was a tough time. When the schools integrated, of course there was tension. My oldest siblings that were a lot older than I was at that time, I can remember my mom having to leave work to go to Fort Meyers High School because there was riot and dogs were brought out. That kind of thing.

	V:	This was at the school this happened? B:	This was at the school.

	V:	Oh wow.



	B:	If you go back to the archives of the news press, it should have some information about the different things of that time that was taken place.

	V:	That was in around [19]69 when they started integrating.





	B:	Actually, my sister actually graduated high school in [19]72 from Fort Meyers. It would’ve been like in [19]71. That timeframe.

	V:	Did you know anyone in your family or any of your friends that were actively involved in the movement?

	B:	I can’t say actively involved in the movement. Not really. I mean we all were just thrown into a situation where we, you know, just had to learn to get along with each other. It was tough. I mean I was talking to a classmate of mine that’s White, Lin Beauchet, and we talked about that time. I think because we were younger, we kinda was thrown together prior to all this other stuff starting to take place. Even now, we all have more of a bond together with one another than some of the other kids did.

	V:	Okay. I want to know too. Were there any prominent churches in the area that helped keep the community together?

	B:	Yes. St. John First Baptists Church. We had Friendship Baptist Church. The churches played a big, strong, vital role in our Black communities in keeping us strong in prayer, strong in hope. One of the pastors at Friendship Baptist Church, Reverend Izador Edwards, I looked up to him as being almost like a Martin Luther King of that time because he always spoke out about the injustices of how Blacks were being treated during that time.

	V:	What was his name again?





B:  Reverend Izador Edwards. He’s still alive. He moved away from here years ago, and he lives in Texas. He’s the pastor of Morning Star Church. I’m trying to think if it’s in Dallas, Texas.

	V:	Okay. Now, I wanted to ask about the dividing line that you were talking about the railroad. The railroad divided the White and Black community in Fort Meyers then.

	B:	Mh-hm. During that time, the Black community had a vibrant downtown I would say. We had our own grocery store. We had our own movie theaters. We had our own stores that we were able to walk up and down MLK and go to. We had shoe stores. We had all kinds of Mom and Pop grocery stores on corners. We had a lot of activity and a lot of economic development was downtown. The McCollum Hall that they’re trying to recreate here was called Styland and my brother’s worked there. It was like a men’s clothing store. You would go in. Mr. Buck McCollum ran that particular store. That was one of the main shopping places for men to get their clothing.

	V:	It sounds like the area was very prominent. Do you know what it was like to see it decline over the years?

	B:	It was really heart breaking because like I said you had gas stations and everything all along the MLK out there on the corners. It was really kind of depressing that after a while when the mall came along and even our own downtown here died because we had McCoreys downtown and all kinds of little





shops downtown. Diana Shop which was a ladies’ apparel store. All of the places down here died as well when the mall came along.

	V:	Sorry I didn’t mean to cut you off. Did the mall just kind of push out the business then?

	B:	Yeah. It pretty much took over at that time, a lot of the businesses. After a while, the mom and pop stores couldn’t compete with what people could get. They couldn’t compete with what you could get somewhere else. When a lot of the stores came along, a lot of the things along the corner died.

	V:	I also wanted to ask because I dropped down a note. Reverend Edwards, who you talked about had moved to Texas, before that you said he was like a Martin Luther King figure. What would did you mean in that way?

	B:	He was the pastor of Friendship Baptist Church that sits on the corner of Palm and MLK. He was more or less like a voice for the Black community of speaking out about some of the injustices that were done here.

	V:	Speaking of the injustices, do you remember any specific acts?



	B:	I mean just trying to just trying to get the schools integrated. The problem that we had it wasn’t so much that we didn’t like our schools, we were just not given the books. You know, I would get a textbook. They would maybe be leftover books from Fort Meyer High School that wasn’t used. They would send it over to our school at Dunbar. I might open my textbook and I’ll have pages 1-55, but then pages 56-70 are missing. The Black teachers during that time had to really put a lot within learning of what they had learned themselves in order to try to make up





for what we lacked in having the right materials we needed in order to compete and be in school. I just think that even though we didn’t have all the right tools that we needed to have; they instilled in us so many other things that we still was able to manage and become very productive adults and very successful adults.

	V:	Even though you didn’t have all the materials and things like that, a lot of you still expected to do well in the community. Did a lot of you end up going to college?

	B:	A lot of us did. My oldest brother, Walter Watkins, he taught for thirty something years at Cypress Lake House School. He was a Math teacher there. My brother- in-law, John Allen, he was a counselor and a teacher at Fort Meyers High. My brother and Mrs. Toliver were two of the first Black teachers to go to a White school here in Lee County. At that time, it was only four highs schools: Riverdale, Fort Meyers, Cypress Lake, and North Fort Meyers.

	V:	I don’t know if you have any friends from the Santa Belle area and stuff like that, but I heard as well that they had to be ferried in because the bridge wasn’t built yet and they had the White students go on the ferries first then the Black students would be last.

	B:	Most of the kids from Santa Belle went Cypress Lake High School We went to school with a lot of kids Santa Belle. Even at Dunbar High School when it was operable, you had kids that were bussed from Clewiston and other places that had to go to Dunbar high school because they were not allowed to go to the schools in Naples or the schools in Punta Gorda. All those kids had to come over to Fort Meyers to go to school.





	V:	When integration eventually did come along, did it happen more as a community effort, or was it through the state and the government?

	B:	I kind of remember this. Mr.Blalock who was also prominent spokesperson for the community like Reverend Izador Edwards was, along with Mr. Willie Green and Mr. Melve Morgan and a lot of people. The school board ended up being sued. They filled a lawsuit against the school board. That was how Dunbar High School came back into existence. A lot of things did happen because of different law suits and things that had taken place in order to make them comply to what was needed.

	V:	When they decided to integrate the schools, they decided to completely shut down Dunbar High?

	B:	Yes.



	V:	Oh wow.



	B:	They closed Dunbar High completely. My brother, Thomas Watkins, he was a part of the last graduating class in 1969 from Dunbar. During that time, we were a community. When growing up, everybody looked out for everybody kids. Now, we don’t have that kind of closeness and looking out. People don’t want you to chastise your kids or say anything to their kids. During the time I was growing up, the whole community looked out for one another. They knew you. You couldn’t get far out of hand without somebody saying, “Oh that’s Ola’s daughter,” or “That’s Sammy’s daughter. We’re going to talk to your mom and dad.” It’s not the





same anymore. The church was our sanctuary of coming together on Sundays, and everything coming full circle of what we had gone through during the week.

	V:	On that point, you talk about how things changed in terms of the mood between the people in the Black community in Fort Meyers. In what ways do you think things haven’t changed since then?

	B:	Really. I mean everything really is different. Everything we had as far as what we knew as kids growing up is not there anymore. It’s all gone. I mean we don’t have the leisure of leaving our house and going to the store like a CVS or McDonald’s or something like that. All of that stuff was taken away and never brought back.

We lost a lot. A lot of the people, as they began to do better in their life they left and moved away, or moved out of the community. I can’t really think of anything that’s the same except the church buildings that were there years ago are still there.

	V:	I imagine then that the community’s very happy about efforts to try to preserve what’s left like McCollum Hall as you stated.

	B:	Yes.



	V:	Okay. I also wanted to ask about some of the other leaders that mentioned when you were talking about the lawsuit against the Lee County school board. Who was Mr. Blalock who you mentioned?

	B:	Mr. Blalock was just an ordinary guy that worked every day hard, and he had kids that were a part of the school system. He really cared about the community. He cared about his children, and he wanted them to have a better, equal education.





He fought for some things for his child and it didn’t work in the way he thought it should have worked. He took things further in order to try to get— it started out about her, but it ended up being a big benefit for everybody in the community.

	V:	Who was Willie Green?



	B:	Mr. Green is a person who has been in our community for years and years. That fought for civil rights for the community. He’s still alive. Deacon Blalock has passed on. Mr. Willie Green has been here also fighting for integration of schools. He also mentioned that he marched with Martin Luther King. He still is very much a big part of our community in fighting for the rights for the citizens in our community.

	V:	When you say he marched with MLK, is that when MLK visited St. Augustine or do you not know in particular?

	B:	I really don’t know all of the details as to when he did that. I just overheard him saying that that’s what he did.

	V:	Okay. Now I want to take things away from the Civil Rights Movement and more back to your family and your life history. When did you start being involved and, I guess you can say, being a worker for the public and for the Fort Meyer’s community?

	B:		I thought about that the other day. I can remember as child all of my mom’s elderly friends would need things from the grocery store. I was like their little “Do- girl.” I would go by Mrs. Fanny’s house and Mrs. Page and all of them. I would get their little grocery list, and I would run to the store for them and do those





kinds of things. I always had a heart for people. If there was somebody that needed something, I would always take them home to my mom for one thing, and I always thought she could fix everything. I think because of the heart and love of my family; I always had the heart of wanting to give back to my community and to others.

	V:	Okay. When were you given that opportunity? When were you first selected into public office?

	B:		I was elected back in 2009. I worked for the telephone company at the time. It was Embark Corporation. I worked for thirty-five years after retiring. Fifteen of those years I was in public relations. Have always loved working with people. I did all of the community volunteer efforts for the Embark Corporations for the South region. I was always involved in the community: volunteering, serving on different boards, and things. That’s how I got engaged in working there and finally running for a public office. I had no idea how different working for a private sector than being in government. It’s like apples and oranges.

	V:	Did you ever imagine when you were growing up as a kid that you were going to be in such a highly esteemed office?

	B:	No. Never. The only thing I hate is that my parents never did get to see this day of me serving the community like this. I think about I know they would be very proud.

	V:	Especially before since how we were talking about how things have changed. I can only imagine for people back in the day to see— because they were even





fighting the integration of schools to see people in the Black community able to serve in public office now. I mean that’s incredible.

	B:	Right.



	V:	If I could ask too about your time in office, are there any specific initiatives that you’ve been proud of while working in your office?

	B:	One of the things I have been trying really hard to work at is making the communities in which I live better. When I say better, it’s equally giving them the opportunity to turning on the water and it not looking brown and having the opportunity to go to a nice park. Being able to have some of the amenities in that community that they don’t have to always leave to come over to enjoy different things. I think with Ward 1, which is the ward that I represent, even though I know there is a lot more that needs to be done. I think that I have made strides in making the communities better than what they were before in the way of infrastructure, sidewalks, streetlights, parks, and that type of thing for the community.

	V:	Okay. Are there specific people that you’ve been working a lot with in order to achieve those goals?

	B:	Basically, those things have been orchestrated through the city managers that we’ve had. Mr. Mitchell and Mr.Cazimi who’s president now. It’s looking and getting projects that you know your community may need, and then hoping that your counterparts will support you in making sure those things move along. Even though I’m proud of all of this, it can’t be done by one person. It’s the entire





council along with the city managers that have been able to assist me in making those things happen.

	V:	You were able to get all of this done, obviously, through things like the vote and everything. Actually, that brings me to the next topic that I want to ask about which was: do you remember the first time that you’re able to vote in your life?

	B:	I started voting at age eighteen. Soon as I turned eighteen. My dad was a history buff and a stickler about us respecting and being proud of being an American, and being a part of something. He always would tell us, “Nothing in life is free, and you can’t sit and complain if you’re not going to try to be a part of the solution.”

	V:	When you voted when you were eighteen, was that for a local election, state election, or federal?

	B:	It was for all of it. Whatever was taking place at that time. It was on my birthday January 10th, 1975 is when I started to vote.

	V:	When you were eighteen then, what was the year? B:	[19]75.

	V:	[19]75. Okay. If you could tell me then, were there a lot of voting booths? Were they open? Was there an organized effort within the Black community to get elected officials in the office?

	B:	I know Mrs. Shoemaker ran sixteen times before she was elected. At that time, being as young as I was, I would listen to my dad and all and how they would





know the importance of trying to make sure the right person was in office. Basically, I voted based on some of their ideas in all are. As I begin to get older… because a lot times it was like you’re a Democrat. Vote Democrat. Now that I’m older, even though I am a Democrat, I look at what is going to support and benefit the world or community as a whole regardless of what your party affiliation is.

	V:	If I could ask too, Shoemaker who you said ran sixteen time. Who was she? B:	Mrs. Veronica Shoemaker.

	V:	After the street, that’s what I was thinking. [Laughter] Who was she? What office did she run for?

	B:	She ran for city council. Actually, Mrs. Shoemaker was the one that broke the barrier and opened the door for me to be sitting in this seat right now. Dr. Knight was another one that came behind her that held the council for Ward 3. What happened was Mrs. Shoemaker was trying to run city-wide, and it was on the efforts of Mrs. Shoemaker that single member came into play. She was elected during a city-wide election, but the rest of us only had to be concerned about a single district. She brought that into play of the single member districts in order to make sure that what she had a hard time in accomplishing wouldn’t be that hard for any other African American or person of color that was coming behind her.

	V:	Was she then the first person of color to hold the office?



	B:	She was the first person to hold office, and the longest running councilperson for the city.





	V:	If I may ask too, was she also the first woman to hold office? B:	Yes.

	V:	Oh wow. Okay. [Laughter] Did her time in office inspire you at all?



	B:	Yes. I always would talk to Mrs. Shoemaker and she would always say, “I want you to run for office.” You know how a person may say some of those things like that. You’re not really— That wasn’t my aspiration to be in politics. I never really thought of it during that time. Mrs. Shoemaker was also a pioneer of the community, and also very strong in making sure that somethings happened for our community of Dunbar.

	V:	You were talking a lot of the local businesses that were in the community before a lot of them got pushed out. Were there any establishments that you frequented a lot when you were a kid or when you were growing up?

	B:	Unlike kids able to run and do all of what they’re doing now, we couldn’t basically do a lot of that. Mr. Pete’s store was my favorite store. At Mr. Pete’s store, you could get all your paper doll cutouts, and he had the different toys and clothing and stuff in that particular store. Mr. McCarter, he ran the local record store.

Those were most of the places that I would go to other than B&B grocery store.



	V:	Besides businesses in the community, I know because I was reading up on the history of the community and I saw that Bunch Beach was the first colored beach that African-Americans had in Lee County, did you and your family ever frequent Bunch Beach?





	B:	Yes. My aunt and uncle ran Bunch Beach. V:	Oh really?

	B:	Yeah. Mac Curtis, Jr. and Rosalie Curtis. They used to run Bunch Beach, and all of my summer was spent at Bunch Beach.

	V:	Were there any business near Bunch Beach that operated there, or was it just the land?

B:  Actually it was just the land. I remember a store being on the corner. It wasn’t much around during that town. A lot of things only came into fruition way after Bunch Beach closed down or whatever.

V:   Yeah. How did the members of your family end up coming to run Bunch Beach?



	B:	I really, really don’t know. All I know is every summer we would go down there, and spend time with my aunt and uncle. That was their job.

	V:	Okay. Besides that, were there any other places in the community that you went for entertainment or things like that?

	B:	We went to what we called the Stars Complex now. Actually it’s Dr. Carrie Robertson Center. That was the old recreation center. We called it the “Rec.” Every Saturday night, they would have dances there for the young kids. If I got to be real good, my parents would let me go. Then, we would go to the dance on Saturday nights and we would go to a place called Tasty freeze. Actually right there where Roberta Clemente Park is sitting now. That’s where Tasty Freeze





was. We would go after, and Mrs. Seawood ran that. We would go there and get food and stuff.

	V:	Also, when you went to these places and stuff like that, I know that a lot of Black entertainers would come to Fort Meyers to do shows and things like that. Ones that I read about were people like Duke Ellington which was way before –

	B:	Yeah, way before my time. [Laughter] But I remember places like it was a club called “The Name of the Game.” I can’t think of her name. It was a lot of entertainers that would come down. I can’t think of any of them names right now. Betty Wright. She was a singer and would come and perform and stuff like that. Our local fraternities and sororities was always big in our community, and they still are. The Kappas fraternity would always hold what they called a “Black and White Ball,” every year. That would be held down at the Exhibition Hall or somewhere. It was a time for us to dress up and go out. It was doing those kinds of things.

	V:	I didn’t know about them. What were the fraternities in the area?



	B:	The fraternities were like the pillar of the organizations that did a lot of volunteerism, raised money for scholarships and stuff to try to help some of the kids that was in school. Capable of helping them going off to school. Paying for their books and giving them money for tuition.

	V:	They also organized the events that you were talking about like the Black and White Ball and things like that. Now, I also wanted to ask about general life





growing up when you were in the 1950s and 1960s. Do you remember what the typical jobs were for people in the African American community?

	B:	Like I said, my mom did domestic work, so she was a maid. Grocery store. A lot of farming because you had we called them shelling bulbs. It was Gladiola bulbs. You could go on a lot of farms for picking tomatoes. You know that type of jobs. In 1968, my sister Sarah was one of the first Black supervisors for being a telephone operator at the telephone company. You had those type jobs. Book keeping and a lot of teachers and that kind of thing.

	V:	One of the last things I wanted to ask about was back to Reverend Edwards. Did he do any big speeches in the area that you remember when you were growing up?

	B:	The only thing I can remember him is preaching from the pulpit.



V:  I was just asking because that’s on the people we are trying to learn a lot more about as well.

B:  I think if you look up in the news press, you probably would be able to find some information on Reverend Izador Edwards, and some of the things that took place here during that time with him.

V:   Alright well perfect. That wraps up about all the questions I wanted to ask you.



Thank you so much for speaking with us today.



B:   Oh no problem.



V:   We really appreciate it.













[End of Recording]



Transcribed by:

Kelly Richardson

August 15, 2019

Audit-edited by:

Sandra Romero

August 20, 2019

Final-edited by:

Sandra Romero

May 19, 2020