AAHP 688; Hixon; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 688 Mamie Webb Hixon African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Ryan Morini on July 7, 2019

93 minutes | 42 pages





Abstract: In this interview, Mamie Webb Hixon reminisces on her time at Ms. Lily James’ school and her lessons there. She recalls that Ms. Lily was a prominent figure in her life that set her on a path towards education. She lists her other teachers, all the way through twelfth grade, and what it was like to be a student in segregated schools in Pensacola, Florida. She describes her years at Talladega College, an HBCU in Alabama and how she felt insulated from but inspired by the Civil Rights Movement. She recalls how immediately after college, she began teaching and how she became director of the writing lab at a predominantly White institution, University of West Florida. She compares the benefits of HBCUs against other universities and how her passion for Black literature was ignited, not in college, but afterwards in her quest to understand her history. She details her family history, and how she had White family members and how this experience was for her.



Keywords: [African American Studies, HBCU, Pensacola, Talladega College, Mississippi, education, integration, segregation, UWF, teacher, Civil Rights Movement, Florida history]



AAHP 688

Interviewee: Mamie Webb Hixon Interviewer: Ryan Morini

Date: July 7, 2019





M:  This is Ryan Morini with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. Today is July 7, 2019 and I’m here in the Chappie James Museum with Ms. Mamie Hixon.

Thanks for joining us today.



	H:	You’re quite welcome.



	M:	Can I ask your full name? H:	Mamie Webb Hixon.

	M:	So, Webb is the maiden name?



H:   Yes, Webb is the maiden name and it’s not hyphenated. IT’s just my connection to my history.

	M:	Understandable. Can I ask where and when were you born?



H:  Yes, I was born March 30, 1946 in Indianola, Mississippi, the hometown of B.B. King. My parents moved down here to Pensacola I was three or four years old. As soon as we moved to Pensacola, they enrolled me in the L.A. James School for colored children, where we sit. Actually, we’re sitting in her house.

M:  Indeed. If I can ask, do you have any memories of Indianola at all or was that too early?

	H:	Yes, I do. I was born on a plantation, Phillip’s Plantation. Fortunately for my own history, many years later – it’s probably been twenty years ago – a person read one of the stories that I had written, and it’s published in the African American Heritage Society’s volume of books called When Black Folks Was Colored, with the “was” being intentional because we when were colored, we might have talked that way. What was her name? It was on the tip of my tongue. At any rate, she







read the story and mentioned to someone she read one of the narratives I had written called Bull’s Store and I described the plantation, Heathman, Mississippi, Billup’s Plantation. The person to whom she was giving this information told her to contact me and we began talking and met and talked about my aunt Maggie who worked at the plantation at the big house. We just connected historically with her family history and my family history. I remember all of that family history because though my family moved to Pensacola when I was four, we went back. My mother and my sisters Haddie and Louis, my brother Sam Webb Jr., we would go back. My dad often would go back to Heathman to visit every summer, so I got a chance during those summers to ride the back of my aunt Mamie’s sack, I was named for her, her cotton sack in the cotton fields. I watched my uncle plow the fields with his big red tractor, watch my aunt Mamie in the summer primarily go back and forth to work at the home of White people. I say that, not disparagingly, it was just a fact. As I became older, because we went back and forth every summer to Indianola to visit up until I was in college, and when I was in high school, I remember being taken to – well first I remember being taken to Aunt Mamie’s house and seeing that – because I think they saw me as the hope of the family so she would always say things like, “I get twenty-five cents an hour.” I’m in high school now, in the [19]60s. We’re in the Black Arts movement, the Black Power Movement, and I’m becoming a little bit militant, as it would’ve been called and I’m saying things to her like, “You should be making more than that. You should be getting minimum wage.” She said, “No, don’t tell on my White lady because you see these appliances, freezer, refrigerator – my White lady –







that’s what she called her – gave these things to me so don’t go making trouble.” The same thing happened with my great-aunt, with my mother’s sister, Aunt Maggie. I would go to the clinic with her and we sat, again this is in the [19]60s when things supposedly had changed, and we’re sitting in a colored waiting room and she said, “Just sit here quietly. Don’t say anything. Don’t do anything.” When she was called to the back, I remember this vividly, I went out and sat in the White area. The receptionist came over and said I would need to leave and go to the other room. I said, “Why?” She said, “You need to go to the colored waiting room.” I was a little smart aleck and I said, “This is colored. It’s painted blue.” So, she went and got a nurse, I guess the head nurse. They both came over. By the time we finished all this back and forth and they’re trying to cajole me into going back and my arguing vehemently with them that I shouldn’t have that Aunt Maggie was finished, thank goodness. We could’ve been arrested. So, I have those kinds of memories but still good memories of that same kind of insulation and protection that I had from the sit-ins and demonstrations. I never got a chance to participate in any of those things, anywhere, anytime, any place because I felt that in Heathman and Pensacola as well, I was in an insulated environment where White people did not intrude on my colored world with the exception of the insurance man and the Watkin’s man who came by and sold vanilla flavor. The insurance people came by to sell these insurance policies that I found out much later, in the last ten or fifteen years when my parents died, that they were not great policies. They were probably worth two hundred fifty dollars, that my parents were paying about twenty-five dollars a week on them. Things







like that. I have those memories especially of what I call peaceful kind of coexistence. Henry Louis Gates Jr. wrote that it’s a separate peace, P-E-A-C-E. We have our peace in our colored, Negro neighborhood and you have your peace there and never the two shall meet, the two pieces. P-I-E-C-E-S and P-E- A-C-E-S if we can make that work. Yes, I still remember Indianola, I haven’t been back in a while. I still have a piece of cotton in my living room that I cherish because it’s cotton from the fields that I remember riding a sack on. Because I teach an African American lit class and read novels like The Third Life of Granger Copeland by Alice Walker, which is about the sharecropping system, I know the sharecropping system. That’s the same system that paid my aunt Mamie the twenty-five cents a week, and my uncle maybe fifty cents a week to drive the tractor. Those things we see in documentaries about the promised land and all the negroes leaving Mississippi and the South to go north, I know all that, so I’m able to connect. As I read this history that I partly lived, and I say partly because I wasn’t intellectually connected enough to know what was really happening to them and to know what was really happening to me. It was enough to have a voice and give voice to the ills of racism.

	M:	Your aunt Mamie, was there anything particular in terms of why they named you after her and also, is there anything you remember about her as a person overall?

	H:	She was a seamstress, a dresser. She was sassy, smart, outspoken. I can remember her telling my uncle what she would and would not do. Although she did serve that role of wife, doing the cooking and cleaning and the washing and







all those things. But she and my aunt Maggie especially, because now we use Aunt Maggie as a verb, “Okay I’m going to Aunt Maggie you.” It means we’re gonna use a little bit of profanity, we’re gonna tell you off. Aunt Maggie would’ve been a Barbara Jordan had she not been born too late. I think there was a baseball player who said, “I wasn’t born too soon. Opportunities just came too late.” The opportunities came too late for these people. I guess I was just named Aunt Maggie because my aunt raised my mother. My maternal grandmother was still living but being a single mom, parenting wasn’t easy because I never knew who my grandfather was. My aunt Mamie helped to raise my mother so I’m sure it was some kind of honorary tribute to her to name me after her since Mom probably birthed me there at her house. I’ve never asked, I have to ask. I’m not sure, I have to check my birth certificate to see if I was born at that house by a midwife. I think I was. Probably not a hospital.

	M:	It sounds like you grew up knowing a lot of strong women in your family.



	H:	Oh, yeah, definitely. To that point that only in the last twenty years have I questioned where were these men. Where was my grandfather? I have a poem that I wrote about that. There were no men, no grandfathers around. My father was around. I’ve always known my father; he was in the home and the first Mr.Mom I knew. I knew him as Mr. Mom but didn’t have the words to call him that but that’s what he was. He took us shopping, he bought us clothes for the three daughters including me, for my mother. My brother died when he was six. My dad did the cooking. Every now and then I’ll have a dad’s meal, I’ll cook something he always cooked. He did the cleaning up until I was an adult. In fact,







I often like to say I was a privileged negro and did not even know it until recently when one of my colleagues, I said to him, “I can never get these lids on these little cups. There’s a certain way you press them” He said, “So you’ve never worked in a fast-food restaurant.” “No.” “Well, what was the first place you worked before you started teaching?” I said, “Worked? I never worked.” Teaching was my first job, literally. He said, “You never worked! I worked when I was eleven.” “No way. Thank you for asking the question. I’m discovering I’m privileged.” Even after I became a fully grown adult – there’s a play that I teach, there’s a line that says, “We was grown. We was grown!” – so I was grown, and my dad was still giving me and my sisters an allowance. I am employed as a teacher, not making much but still employed, my dad would mow the lawn, come over and clean up my house so yes, I’m privileged. I’ve lived a privileged life. It might not be the life of celebrity children, not that kind of privileged life, but I had a lot of amenities that I now realize that many of my peers didn’t have. Having a dad in the home, for one, because I grew up with some kids who didn’t have a dad in the home. Backing up, there weren’t these men around. My maternal grandmother, my mother’s sister, one of her older sisters – now her baby sister did have a husband who was in their home but there on the plantation, my grandmother and my aunt – those were the women that I saw going to work, doing things, and taking care of us so well that I did not miss – I say this in my poem – I didn’t miss the presence of a male figure, when I was there in the summers. I had that full presence every day in Pensacola with my dad at home. Still, there you would think I would question, “Where are the men here? Where is







your husband, Aunt Maggie?” Aunt Maggie could not read or write. My grandmother could not read or write. My mother could not either actually, but she had me to teach her. But Aunt Maggie got a divorce, and she found the divorce papers, and she said, “Read what this says.” I read the word “infidelity.” “What does that mean?” And I told her, and she used some [Laughter] interesting words. “What! That so-and-so! He did what?” “I’m sorry, Aunt Maggie, that’s what it says. You signed this too.” “I couldn’t read. What’d you expect? I just wanted you to read it to me now.” “This is what it says.” It’s something that I laugh endearingly about but it did not matter. The lessons that they were able to teach through just their basic common sense and knowing that I was the hope, I ended up being the first-generation college student – I think that’s what that’s called now – they prepared me well. My parents, no one had been any further than fourth- grade scholars. My aunt Maggie may have been a second-grade scholar. But it’s amazing the things they knew, about raising children especially. Just amazing.

My dad could do more with nine than I could do with a hundred dollars. Some of that he didn’t pass on [Laughter]. I still can’t work with a hundred dollars except buying something for me and not saving it.

	M:	Can I ask your parents’ names?



	H:	My dad was Sam Webb, S-A-M. Mom was Rosa Lee, R-O-S-A, and another word, L-E-E. For a long time, I can’t remember whether Dad had a birth certificate. Mom didn’t and for a long time we tried getting her a birth certificate. It seems that in Mississippi, either some place like a courthouse burned down or something. We tried several times; I wrote all over Mississippi trying to get her







birth records. I don’t think we were ever successful. While we’re on that subject. I think I owe my independence to them because my parents put me in charge of things early. They didn’t tell me I was in charge, but that reflection through that prism, I know I was in charge. Writing out the bills, putting them in the envelope, spelling things that they needed to spell, writing things for them, so they gave me some sense of independence and I am grateful for that too.

	M:	Why did they move to Pensacola? What was the –?



	H:	The motivation? My dad came from a family of thirteen children. His mom died when I was only two or three. His dad I think had been dead before that. They all grew up under two parents. Turns out my paternal grandmother was White or half-White, I’m not sure. His dad was Indian. Of the thirteen children, a couple of them ended up passing for White and moving somewhere else. The rest of them, light, bright, and damn near White like my dad, stayed close. My dad’s sister, Aunt Bessie and her husband – his name was Sam too – moved to Pensacola instead of going to the promised land, to the north, they came to Florida. My uncle Sam was a chef, a cook, so he got a job in Pace, not Pace actually - Floridatown - which is just before you get to Pace. The [Inaudible16:53] is still there, that’s where he was working. Did well, bought a house, and then my aunt Bessie told my dad about it and he moved his family, which was just my mother and me, to Pensacola. We lived on the corner of Davis Street and Blount Street in this big house, partly Uncle Sam’s and Aunt Bessie’s and the other part my mom and dad’s part until they built a house right around the corner on Moreno Street and Sixth Avenue. That was around the time I started coming to Ms. Lily’s.







When I started Ms. Lily’s I believe we may have still been at the house on the corner which is right around this corner actually, this is Marino right here.

	M:	Yeah.



	H:	You go over here to Moreno and turn right and go down to the next corner, that’s Blount. That’s where when I started school here, we were at that house. Then Mom and Dad had a house built just go east on Moreno over to Sixth Avenue which is right across Davis. This is Alcaniz and this is now MLK, and then Davis is up here.

	M:	So, it would’ve been about two blocks down.



	H:	Right, we just moved there. I started school here, but I think, my understanding is, the reasoning was there were some good opportunities. My dad was military, he wasn’t retired but he had served in the army four years. He was able to get a job at NAS as a civil service employee. That was part of it too, that he could come here and get a job because still living there on that plantation was not going to yield any opportunities for anybody. My mother ended up being domestic, she was a maid. I remember conducting a gathering of senior ladies. I’m in a coalition of one hundred Black women with this big program and I was the emcee and I said, “Tell us your name, your age.” There’s always women over seventy, well over seventy at the time. What you did before you retired but a couple of them did not want to say that they were maids. I said, “You know, that’s an honorable profession. That’s how my mother helped my dad to send me to school.” But they just did not want to say that they actually worked as maids and probably still would not today. That’s unfortunate because it’s an honorable







profession. When I teach about the crossing of cultures, I talk about how that’s how cultures crossed, through the maids and the relationships the maids formed with the people for whom they worked. In fact, my sister and I were talking about this the other day because she and her husband had moved into the family home over here on Sixth Avenue and the kitchen has wall to wall cabinets. I mean literally there’s cabinets everywhere in that kitchen. I think Dad called them [Inaudible 20:10]. Anyway, they’re very expensive cabinets. He got those because Mom came home, “[Inaudible] It seems like we have some news cabinets.” Dad asked, “How do they look?” Then he’d go and find some. She’d come and say, “You have the floor on their patio that looks really good.” She’d would describe it and he’d go and find that. Now that same floor is at the patio at the house, which is actually the front porch. That was the mimicking that inside the colored world you would not have been exposed to that because you’re lower to middle income and so where would you see anything like that anyway, other than at a house where a maid family member worked? Like my mom, we would come home and say, “This is what the White people have.” Dad would just get it. That’s what I said it was a rather privileged life.

	M:	You had it sounds like a strong family presence because you had both parents and right down the street you had other relatives.

	H:	Well not relatives. You mean his sister, right around the corner. Then next door, Mr. Travis, a male in the home and his wife and one son. Across the street, the Clarks, the same thing, the dad and mom in the home, three children. The whole neighborhood actually had full families. I don’t remember any single parents in







my immediate neighborhood, but I had a couple of classmates who grew up at home with just a mother. Actually, I think they were the anomaly because everybody else I knew had the parents and the children in the homes.

	M:	How would you describe the neighborhood at the time when you were growing up? What was the neighborhood like?

	H:	It was fully colored. A neighborhood that was clean. There was no neighborhood association, but you better believe there were some unwritten rules about keeping the neighborhood clean and pretty and it stayed that way. I don’t remember a house with junk on the lawn and a house that made the neighborhood look bad. Everyone looked out for each other. I hardly know my neighbors, it’s not that I don’t know them, I wave at them but that’s about it. But we’re talking about visiting neighbors. At Christmas, neighbors exchanging gifts and the visits were a crucial part of neighboring. You went to visit at Christmas, you sat around. You might’ve had dinner at your own house, there wasn’t much of that. Each family had their own dinner cooked at the home, but just visiting and exchanging gifts and the kids playing with each other. I don’t know that that happens a lot now. It’s actually getting to know each other beyond the school walls. Mr. Travis actually, my dad didn’t drive, so when it was time for me to go to college, drove the car my dad bought for Mom. Since she learned to drive, she was one of those independent thinking women like that. He hired Mr. Travis to be the driver, put the trunk in the back of the car, we drove three hundred sixty miles to Talladega College in Talladega, Alabama. That was the kind of neighbor he was. I don’t know if you can find that now but that’s what he did.







	M:	Wow. Strong communities.



	H:	Definitely, and the school was about three blocks away. Spencer Bibbs is where I went. The school was three miles north of the house and the church, Sixth Avenue Baptist Church, where I’m still a member, was three blocks south of the house. You had the community right there. Everybody knew everybody.

	M:	It also sounds like you could walk pretty much anywhere you needed to go.



	H:	That’s what we did. My dad walked a lot since he didn’t drive. He would walk to the bus stop. I’m trying to remember. For a while I think some of his coworkers picked him up to take him to NAS. When he did shopping for us, he would just walk to the bus stop or walk downtown and do shopping.

	M:	How far was that? H:	The bus stop?

	M:	No, the walk. If you went to downtown.



	H:	From here to downtown, that’s like three or four miles because I’m sure you would take this route here. Take this street, which would’ve been Alcaniz Street straight down all the way down to Garden Street, then Palafox. That’s quite a distance. Three, four, or five miles but that’s what he did. If he had packages, he would likely take the bus back, but he did a lot of walking. To pay bills, to go downtown and pay the Gulf Power bill. Telephone bills. For a long my parents still kept that same phone number, that 433-5879 or [Inaudible 26:10] 5879 that’s what we called it back then. To shop. That’s what we did.

	M:	Since we are in the school here, what can you tell me about Ms. Lily?







	H:	Ms. Lily was strict, rigid, stern, but I got to know her past the schoolhouse because we walked together across that ramp and came here because my parents didn’t get off from work till four or five o’clock, but I think school would’ve ended around two. Therefore, we would come here. I think this might have been the room we are in, where her chair was there, and I would sit on a stool. She would ask me to read to her. I was reading novels and books fit for a four or five – because at the time I was four or five, six years old all up till fifth grade – so I would read to her. Because again she was an obese woman who walked with a cane so once she arrived here and took a seat, pretty much that’s where she stayed and sat. The same way she sat in the school. She walked in and sat. I don’t know when she went to relieve herself now that I think about it, but she sat in both places. She sat, I read to her, fixed us a sandwich or something, bring it to her, and she would talk to me just about – I wrote about this in the narrative in When Black Folks Was Colored, I called it Ms. Lily’s School. School for me was in the schoolhouse but also in her house where she just talked to me about everything, giving me words to live by philosophical gems. Her motto was, “Don’t quit.” Those same words she would utter to her seventeen children because that’s how the school got started, with her teaching her own seventeen children in the schoolhouse. That’s why she could sit at the one desk and manage. Think about this, four-year-olds, five- and six-year-olds – now you’re in first-grade, second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth, all in this one room shotgun schoolhouse. I think we were divided into sections from what I can remember in the schoolhouse but many of our lessons were the same and conducted at the same time in a kind







of assembly format. Some of the lessons, however, were conducted separately depending on your grade level. I remember the spelling bees because I would win them. She would show me off as the prized speller to the sixth grader whom I out spelled. Look at what that does for self-esteem. Of course, I don’t know about the self-esteem of those. We were made as an example, “Look, a four-year-old can out spell you!” Punishment was done in a public setting, atop her desk. You had to lie face down, pull your britches down, pull your dress up, whatever the case. Of course, girls all had on dresses, no pants back then. Pull the boys’ britches down and they got a little paddling. You didn’t do it anymore, whatever you did. I couldn’t remember, once I think we got a paddling and that was it.

She had assistants and Ms. Christine was one of them, I do not know her last name. I think one day, some forty years ago, someone mentioned Ms. Lily and they called this name and I said, “Well who’s that?” And the person said, “That’s Ms. Christine!” I said, “If she had a last name, I never knew.” That’s all we called her. Ms. Cannoli who happened to be a neighbor and to this day I could not tell you whether she was Black or White. I think she might’ve been a White lady but I’m not sure. With a last name like Cannoli, maybe so, I’m not sure. She and her husband both. But that’s part of that neighborhood cohesiveness. I failed to mention when you asked about the neighborhood I grew up in, there really were White people in that neighborhood down the street, a block away. A block to the east and a block to the south.

	M:	And they were part of the neighborhood that way?







	H:	They were part of the neighborhood but that was it. Whether they were White or not was kind of inconsequential because in regard to diversity, the [Inaudible] Grocery Market which was little mom and pop store right on the corner of Blount and Davis, it was run by Greek people. They were identifiable to us as Greek.

Those are Greek people who own that store. But the White people we never actually labeled them. Now, I segued from something. What was I talking about?

	M:	The assistants.



	H:	Oh right, the assistants. Ms. Cannoli and Ms. Betts. I used to remember her first name, but I can’t remember it. [Inaudible] That way they could take even fourth and fifth graders together. Ms. Lily would keep the little ones. Often, we would come together. Recess was the big part of seeing Chappie James, not really seeing him. I cannot recall that he ever came, I’m thinking he did, but I don’t remember it. I just remember recess, going outside at a certain time because that was the time, he announced to her that he would be flying over and she would us, “Look up. Planes are gonna fly over, that’ll be my son. He’s a pilot.” We were exposed to pilots. Means if he could be a pilot, of course I could do just about anything, with limitations but I didn’t know there were limitations. I just thought those were the things that were available to me, you could be a pilot, you could be a teacher, a nurse, a doctor. That’s good enough. Those are some open fields, and I was enchanted, enthralled by the idea of being the one who has the knowledge and the one to disseminate the knowledge among all the students and be the one to listen and to teach. I think I was just born to teach and I’m sure I picked it up right here from Ms. Lily. This is what teachers do. I ended up having







a whole [Inaudible 33:00] colored teachers who modeled Ms. Lily. Some of them, I’m not sure whether they came under her tutelage or not, but they did the kinds of things she did, and they lived in nice neighborhoods and drove nice cars, dressed well. That’s what teaching was to me. Oh yeah, this is what I want to be and do. I want to know a lot, I want to teach, tell other students a lot, I want to dress well, I want to live in a nice house. That was the thing to be and it’s unfortunate, in my opinion, now students don’t tend to see teachers that way in that reverence through those revered lenses. I’m not sure what they see teachers as, someone to disrespect it seems. I just revered all those people and wanted to be them.

	M:	What kind of value was placed in education in your house? How did your parents view education?

	H:	In the front of a textbook, I wrote I said, “My mom and dad did not have a formal education, but they had the wisdom to know the difference.” They knew that within education, despite the fact that they didn’t have one – a better line is from Alice Walker’s poem “Women”: “How they knew what we needed to know without knowing a page of it themselves.” They never set foot in a college until they took me to college. What did they know about college? Nothing. What do they know about books? They knew enough that they needed encyclopedias or when the encyclopedia man came by to send them a bill of goods, it sounded good. “Oh, she can read this and learn something from it? Yes sir.” They bought the book.

They knew they didn’t want me coming off the back of Aunt Mamie’s sack and pulling the sack. They wanted better for me and I think that’s all it was. The







reason they moved from the plantation, they wanted for themselves, and naturally, they had to be visionaries in some kind of way although they never sat me down to say that. They just said, “You’re going to college.” In their dialect, “Get yourself an education. That’s what you need in order to make it.” They had the wisdom to know. Mom knew she didn’t want me in the kitchen because I never knew what she went through. I saw that movie The Help and read the book and I’m thinking, “Oh goodness. If Mom went through that, and she probably did, she never said anything, never complained. She just did her work.” My dad surely, he went through some racism on the base, never came home and – excuse my French – bitched about it. Just dealt with it and worked hard and that’s what I learned about work ethic. You do your job, then you have some kind of resistance, some kind of screen, just doing your job. You’re gonna get the racism anyway. But if you do your job, you’re less likely to be confronted with both. The complaining about the work that you do and that being attached to your Blackness or your colored state, and then the resistance you get anyway, the racism you experience anyway just from being Black. My parents just stressed, “This is what you need to go. Go to school. Learn.” And again, they didn’t know a page of it themselves. They couldn’t help me with my homework. In that respect, here we’re talking about locking their doors. “Doors?”, like my friend said, “We didn’t have doors.” [Laughter]. Your parents just walked into your room if you were lucky and you had a room. I had a room and I think there was a door, but door closed and locked? Privacy? Mom and Dad asking me, “Do you want to go to church?” What do you mean? That was not a question. It was Monday,







Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday school. Saturday they might let me sleep late because Dad was doing the chores for us. Sunday you just got up and went to Sunday school and went to church, that’s the bottom line. Three o’clock, five o’clock, you went back to church, BTU. You didn’t ask. We were just kids.

We didn’t have opinions. Of course, that removed our ability to do critical thinking skills but at the same time, it was all good. That’s missing I think today that lack of respect for parents and adults, period. There were some things were just didn’t say or do in the presence of adults.

	M:	Was there a point at which you became aware of racism? You’re growing up in a segregated Pensacola. Was this something your parents ever talked to you about in terms of how to navigate that world, or is this something you just kind of picked up on as you went along?

	H:	I think my mom and dad were able to navigate that world really well [Inaudible] The de-assimilation as opposed to assimilation and never complaining about the man. Just getting me prepared and so easing into racism was a seamless activity for me. I didn’t have to deal with it. I was never put into a situation where I had to deal with it straight on. I didn’t participate in sit-ins and that was partly because my parents weren’t passive, but yet they weren’t activists with regard to racism.

They were just keeping me protected from all those kinds of things that are the reason I am where I am today. I’m appreciative of all that but I wasn’t involved in it. Mom and Dad never sat me down to say things about racism. Aunt Maggie always said, “Now, White folks they’ll respect you if you do what you’re supposed to do.” I remember those words a lot, “Just do what you’re supposed to do.” I







guess all of my life, I always did what I was supposed to do, never trying to blame anybody and I have what I call healthy paranoia. I have to wonder sometimes, “Hmm. Is this person mistreating me or are they a racist?” since with my being one color and he’s of the other color so I wonder about it but I don’t act it because that’s not a battle I choose to deal with. If what he’s doing isn’t impeding my progress – I’m using he – then I don’t think it’s anything to worry about. Mom and Dad just never talked about racism per se but surely, they lived it every day. Mom going into a situation where she’s subservient, she is the servant, having to say, “Yes, ma’am” and my resisting that. I think that was the beauty of my growing up because they never sat me down and gave me a dim view of life or my expectations. They just taught me quietly how to negotiate without saying, “This is how you negotiate the situation.” Because remember, I went to a historically Black school in Alabama and then two summers in a row I was on the exchange program, both in Vermont, which at that time may have one percent Black people if they had any in the state of Vermont, in those cities I lived in. I didn’t have any trouble integrating or assimilating, because I think I had sense enough just to ask questions. I remember having a roommate, Emily. She came from a privileged White middle class in Massachusetts, so we learned from each other: hair, values. I say hair because that became an issue, a topic. “Let me feel your hair.” “Your straightening comb?” Things like that. We learned from each other. We had cross cultural exchange and the next year we were in [Inaudible] and the kids, I was teaching in Head Start hadn’t been exposed to racism either. They thought I was this person with a tan and told their parents







that. When we had an open house, the parents were stunned and one finally said, “I know you must be wondering why we’re looking at you the way we are. Our kids all came home and told us their teacher had this beautiful tan. She’s from Florida. Naturally we envisioned you as a White person.” I lived with that particular family in [Inaudible] Linda was her name. Linda Martin, the little girl. She would say, “Can I get in the bath with you? Because I want to see what color you are all over?” You know, those kinds of experiences, cross-cultural experiences. Just living in that household, having a roommate who’s from a privileged White upper class family and just dealing with each other as people even back then in the [19]60s and then teaching, being part of the integrated school system, being one of the first Black teachers to teach at Tate High School when Pensacola became fully integrated because in [19]63, the year I graduated, or it might’ve been [19]62, the year before because the Escambia County School District had something called school-by-choice. We students could choose to go to Pensacola High, the all-White school, or stay where we were. I wrote a piece called, “My Choice,” it’s not in When Black Folks Was Colored. It’s Images in Black, a pictorial of Black Pensacola, I wrote a short piece. I said I preferred staying where I was, where I felt comfortable and my teachers knew me and respected me for who I was and not for the color of my skin. I preferred a whole litany of things about Washington High School, the sanctity and safety of it.

Whereas going to Pensacola High, I felt that I was going to be dealing with so much racism and backlash from this kind of forced school-by-choice system that I wasn’t going to be able to learn and surely enough, years later, I didn’t talk to my







classmates but now that we’ve become adults, they have confirmed my fears. This is what happened to them while they were there. They weren’t mature to sit down and talk to each other then, about what’s really happening in Pensacola High. I stayed at Washington High School, that was my choice and I’m glad I did. Interestingly though, the people who went were the people whose parents were activists. The parents were putting them in that kind of position. My parent were not activists, didn’t know enough about what was going on. In fact, I don’t know that they knew I had a choice because they had given me that kind of independence and freedom of thought in decision making, so when we were asked, I just decided to stay. I don’t think I even confirmed with my parents, I just did it. I might’ve gotten off topic [Laughter].

	M:	Not at all. Do you have any moments of Washington you’d want to share? Were there any teachers who really stood out and helped prepare you for college or for teaching?

	H:	Definitely. Yesterday, someone sent me a Facebook post that said, “[Inaudible] The best teacher I ever had was …” The person who sent it to me was a former student of mine at UWF. I responded with, “You know, I can’t pick one.” I sat there and typed from Ms. Lily, Ms. Bess, Ms. Cannoli, Ms. Christine, all the way up to twelfth grade. I can name every single one of my teachers. I find that phenomenal because I remember being driven by the escort service for my car dealership, they were keeping my car, so I told the driver, “Where’d you go to school?” “Oh, I went to Escambia High.” I said, “Who are some of your teachers? I might know them.” He said, “Hmm. I don’t know if I remember any







names.” [Laughter]. I said, “Really?” He said, “You remember names of your teachers?” “I can name every one of them from kindergarten on.” He said, “Oh my god. I guess I need to go back and look. That’s amazing!” That’s what I did in that post, so clearly there was something each of them did for me to know, not only their name but I could put Mr. J.V. Ellis, Mr. William Marshall. I could put first and last names for everybody. Mrs. Augusta Martin. Mrs. JoAnn W. Baldwin. See I remember that middle initial that she used. Mrs. Sylvia E. Todd. All these names, I know them, first and last name. I’m glad I can still remember them at age seventy-three. But I can also go back if I had to and name something that they did or said that has helped to shape me into the teacher I am, starting with Ms. Lily. She always told her daughter, “Mamie’s going to be a great teacher,” so I feel as if I have to walk that path. I’ve gotta go that journey to greatness. What is it -- some people are born great; some have greatness thrust upon? She thrusted that upon me, I gotta live it, I gotta do it. Ms. Dean Perlean, I think she was Lamar when she passed. She taught a course called comparative government, so exposing me to Russia and communism. Here are these things that gave me knowledge that I didn’t even know was out there. Mr.

Marshall, I can just see an image of him just stopping algebra class and talking to us about growing up. “You’re going to be the future. Young people are going to rule the world, so you need to act better.” Just lecture us. They would take that kind of time. Ms. Momen, typing teacher, on the bus, I think this little boy was trying to fondle me and maybe I let him, I don’t know, but her pulling me aside and not calling my parents and saying, “You just don’t let boys do that to you.”







Making me feel really bad about myself but look what that did. I was just a kid, but I can remember that. These teachers taught subject matter, but they taught life lessons and values. They incorporated those lessons into what they were teaching. It wasn’t just for me one-on-one because I did something wrong or he did something wrong or she did; these were the lessons taught in the classroom because they could and they didn’t have to worry about Mrs. Webb calling, saying, “Who told you to teach my child about global warming? You’re dooming the world.” No interference from the parents because that same respect that we were expected to have for our teachers, the parents had. Things have changed, there have been times I wanted to stop a child and say, “You shouldn’t do that,” but then you have to deal with the parent. They didn’t have to deal with those kinds of parents. I cannot narrow down my teaching. Dr. Ruby Gainer, that manuscript of hers, if I wanted to, I could just imitate hers. I’ve kind of modified my writing to fit me, I’ve personalized it, but those basics, I just learned from her. Just etiquette, telling us how to sit, wasn’t part of an English class but it became part of an English class. Now you have a parental grievance, “Who told this teacher to teach my child etiquette? I do that at home.” Just crazy stuff. I remember Edward McCorvey when he was principal at Washington High, he was trying to get all the students, young boys at graduation to wear black pants and black shoes or navy blue, and the girl’s white dresses. I don’t know why he did it, that’s the way we came up. He was a couple years ahead of me in school. Now when I look at some kids performing and they’re up there with pieces of paper instead of a folder, I think, “Boy, they should’ve had Ms. Gelk. She







wouldn’t let us do that.” That’s all for what I’ll say in my church. Somebody needs to teach them. When you’re in the choir you don’t stand up like this looking as if you’re not singing. Ms. Grace Jackson, the choral director, would just not have allowed it. We learned all of those things and now I hear the [Inaudible] saying those things through me. I think I answered that question.

	M:	Most certainly. So, then you went to college in Alabama?



	H:	Right, Talladega College. My parents didn’t know anything about college, so I didn’t have any heritage or family history to send me one place or another. I received a scholarship.

	M:	Specifically, to that?



	H:	Right, nowadays parents, “Well, she has a full ride to Harvard, but she wants to go to FAMU.” “You gonna let her?” “Well, that’s where she wants to go.” There was just no question. Okay, you got the scholarship, that’s where you’re going. We don’t need a list. We don’t need to choose. You have a scholarship, you’re going. They saved, of course, for me but that’s why I didn’t have to work while I was in college, too. I went to that school and it was a historically Black college, an old school. When I graduated it was a hundred years old in 1967. I went back two years ago for my fiftieth-class reunion and that was when we actually put-on robes and marched in with the graduates.

	M:	That’s great.



	H:	I came back to UWF where I teach, called the President, emailed her actually, told her about my experience. I said, “This is UWF’s fiftieth year. Wouldn’t it be







nice if you could find as many of the first graduates as you could and let them lead the line the way we did?” She loved the idea and UWF did that.

	M:	You graduate high school and go to college at height of the Civil Rights Movement and transitioning into the Black Power Movement. How did that impact your college experience at all?

	H:	Again, I think I must’ve had that insulation. It was following me everywhere because we’re right there in the midst and in the mix, in Talladega near Montgomery, but yet unaffected by it, except reaping the benefits of the water hoses and the dogs, all those things that happened to this people. We were watching it from afar, but not fully engaged in it. I’m trying to remember if there was any walk or sit-in in Talladega. There could’ve been but again, I didn’t participate so I was protected again. I call it protection and some people may say, “You’re not courageous. You should’ve been in the middle it.” I don’t know if I was ready for that. My level of maturity – I don’t think I had it in me. My parents hadn’t given me that kind of readiness. I was not an activist. Even today when I see injustices, you’re probably not going to find me out marching. I can write something and send that in, but you’re not going to find me out marching.

	M:	Did it impact your consciousness at all? Was it part of the conversation at all at the college?

	H:	Oh yeah, definitely. While we weren’t there in Montgomery, we had those weekly meetings where these kinds of things were discussed. I guess not having the mind of an activist, I listened and appreciated the information, processed it, but I guess I never acted on it in any kind of way. Even today, I’ll write something or







say something. In my class that I’m teaching I’ve come full circle so I’m able to introduce these kinds of things to my students who are there anyway. My White students are there to have this cross-cultural experience, to learn about Black history through the literature. I say the White students primarily because it’s a class peopled by White students. I have to recruit the Black students. It’s unfortunate that whereas I was insulated from the things, sometimes I find that some of the Black students at UWF for instance are not insulated, it’s just that, “Who wants to hear that old history stuff? Everything is fine.” A lot of the White students think that too, that everything is fine. Everything is still not fine.

Everything is better; yes, it is. I don’t know whether everything is fine. I’ve taught across cultures and decades and I do see the change in the writing lab, around the director, students getting along, and race and sexuality – those things don’t mean anything. A student came to me for an interview some thirty-seven years ago when I first became lab director and he said, “I need to tell you something: I’m gay.” I said, “What’s your point? Can you diagram a sentence?” He said, “Yes, ma’am.” I said, “That’s all I’m interested in. I’m not interested in your sexuality. If you want to keep that to yourself, that’s fine. I just need you to do your job.” I guess it’s the same thing. I was told, “Do your job.” You’re visibly White, I’m visibly Black, but even nowadays there’s enough ambiguity in races. I have some White in me because I don’t know if I mentioned this, I said my dad’s mother – Aunt Maggie -- I must’ve been around eighteen or so, she said, “I’m going to take you to meet your dad’s mother’s sister.” We pull up in this driveway outside Indianola, Mississippi, and like an eighty-five or ninety-year-old woman







was in the yard. I wasn’t sure what that was about. We pulled in and parked, and she said, “That’s your aunt. That’s your dad’s mother’s sister.” I said, “Isn’t she White?” She said, “Yeah. Didn’t you know your grandmother was White?” “Well, I don’t know. I kept hearing but I’m not sure what’s going on.” So, there you go! I remember when my niece, my sister’s daughter, married a White guy. My aunt Bessie, not the aunt Bessie dad’s sister but a maternal aunt, she’s married to my mother’s brother, and she said, “I was just waiting to see which one of you was going to bring White blood back in the family.” I said, “Oh, so now you all are talking about it” [Laughter]. So, we just never know.

	M:	Do you think there’s a particular value to an HBCU? What role do you think they play?

	H:	Good question. I work at a – there’s some initials now for predominantly – M:	Oh, the PWI?

	H:	Right! I work at a PWI. If I were a student now, and opportunities came to me, I would probably try to go to an Ivy League school if that had been available to me, I think. I guess if I thought enough, my knowledge to do that. The value I see in an HBCU is just the opportunity, especially now. Black students are alienated often from what’s considered Black culture because they’re in an integrated system all the way from age four, unlike me; I was ensconced in Black culture all my life and all the way through college. These kids don’t get much of what’s called Black culture. Going to an HBCU does expose them a little bit more. It’s almost like, “Why do we need the BET Awards? Why do we need whatever else is all Black?” That’s the only thing I can think of right now, the Black







Entertainment Awards and the Essence Awards, and the NAACP Awards because when I watch those, I see people I wouldn’t have seen on the Tony’s. The talented U, that’s what I see. Going to a historically Black school, I get to see all Black and I probably would do it again just so I could get that exposure. Look at me, I went through an all-Black culture, I integrated very well into mainstream America and I didn’t come out being so Black that I can’t be an integrated person. Those kinds of things that Michael Eric Dyson called the three kinds of Blackness. I wish I had that book but let me see if I can remember the name of the book. Actually, he’s quoted by Touré, in a book called Post-Blackness. If you ever get a chance to grab that book, look for that there in the section about Michael Eric Dyson where he talks the three types of Blackness. He talks about Condoleezza Rice being in a certain category, Barack Obama being in another category. I like to think I’m in that category where I have a lot of Black pride, but my door is open to learning and assimilating all kinds of other cultures. I’m not so Black, it’s like the novel I teach, Song of Solomon. I tell my students, “We have this narrative but underneath that narrative, peel under it and you’ll find that Toni Morrison is asking, ‘What is the root to success for the average African American?’ This protagonist is giving us these choices. Is it mainstream assimilation. Do you assimilate? Be like his dad who’s off on call, the White-Black man? And Michael Eric Dyson talks about that. Do you embrace Afrocentrism, your African culture as well as your Black culture and your American culture, or are you going to be a radical segregationist where you just alienate yourself from all things White? And how can you do that successfully?” I like to think of myself







as somewhere between Afrocentrism and mainstream assimilation because I think I’ve assimilated well enough and when I talk to young Black people, I tell them, “You need to be able to switch gears. You need to be able to switch from ‘We the best’ to ‘We are the best.’ ‘We the best’ is texting. It’s considered Ebonics. It’s verbalist. U. But ‘We are the best’ that’s going to be you’re A language, your academic language, and the language that’s going to get you an A in college courses, and as an authority in your field. I don’t want my doctor or lawyer saying, ‘We the best.’ No. I don’t want that.” I think if I’m a product of an HBCU and I learned a lot of strictly Black culture, and it was quite a bit, it was Black culture heavy, not necessarily Black language heavy, because we were learning academic language. I learned from Dr. Carolyn Reade Wallace, the one Black English professor I can recall, same things I learned from those Negro teachers that I named, I learned academic language. I learned world history. I benefitted from going to an HBCU at the time that I did and if those HBCUs are still offering that same kind of education, yeah, I would probably go back if I had to re-do it, just to be around what I call my people. Not that you’re not but that connectivity is there. There’s something about that kind of connectivity. Every now and then, I remember, we are all alike. I see that all the time every day.

Then sometimes, it’s like the question one of my friends asked, “You go into an empty room. There’s a table full of White males, a table full of Black females, a table full of White females. There’s one seat at each. Where are you going?” Well, knowing me I’m probably going to the table with all the White males and ask, “What are y’all talking about? What’s going on over here?” Just out of







curiosity, I said. But the connection is gonna be one of the women’s tables and probably because I’ve been around all White women at one time before and I’ve been around all Black women at one time and there does seem to be a better connection between me and all Black women because there’s some relatability to our past, to our growing up, whereas it’s not as much with all the White women, so we’d probably end up asking each other a lot of questions. I don’t like to avoid those things. I like to be right in the mix, right in the middle of it. Let me learn something here. I already know basically what might be happening among the White women, so I probably need to go to the White women and find out what’s going on with them. “What are you guys thinking?” We’re thinking what they’re thinking.

	M:	You mentioned a lot of Black authors and a lot of the historical value of literature.



When did you start encountering that? Was that part of high school or was it in college and thereafter?

	H:	Good question, too, because in high school, it was a lot of Shakespeare. Mr. March had us not only reading Shakespeare but diagraming Shakespearean sentences too. Didn’t get exposed to any Black writers then. At Talladega, lots of plays were done locally on campus and repertoire groups would come in and present Black plays. I’m thinking the novels we read were parts of the canon, so- called classics, and we didn’t even read The Invisible Man. Actually, it was afterwards. After I began to explore on my own and was given classes to teach and I thought, maybe I should expose them to some Black literature. Forget the dead White men and let’s see we can read a little bit of poetry. Back to







Talladega, exposure to some Black poetry and I remember being exposed to James Baldwin but other than that, pretty limited. I think it’s the era I grew up in because around the early [19]70s, there was flourish of Black women writers because Black male writers, like Baldwin and Ralph Ellison, were at the forefront. I began to read a lot, but I like to read a little bit of everything. I have people calling me all the time, asking me, “I want to write a book. What do you suggest?” I say, “What authors do you read?” “I don’t read anything.” I said, “Don’t even think about writing a book.” How are you gonna write a book if you have never read James Baldwin or William Faulkner? [Laughter] You need to read Ernest Hemingway and Jane Austen. You need to read all of these people, Black, White. You need to just read them. I just don’t know. Although everybody writes a book. I’m listening to a book on tape that my book club member chose for July, it’s a [Inaudible] book. Since I listened to the first three minutes, I thought you know I like [Inaudible] as a stand-up comedian. He needs to stay in his life. Get out of writing a book because what he’s doing is, he’s writing this book that really should be the script for one of his stand-up comedy shows. I’m trying to keep listening because I don’t have time to read it anyway and it’s just not a book. We now live in an era where everyone wants to write a book and I don’t think everybody is equipped to write a book. I don’t even consider myself personally equipped to write a book. If I’m able to admit that, definitely non-writers. I’m actually a teacher who knows how to write a little bit. Non-writers need to admit that to themselves. Again, to answer the question, I really was not exposed to the Black writers in high school or in college. It was just afterwards that, as a teacher,







I wanted to enlighten my students. I actually created the course at UWF. The students were asking, “Why don’t we have an African American lit class?” In that class, I used to teach African American lit and then they were made, it U barely made fifteen students. Black women writers I have been teaching that now for about ten years and it makes every time but still only about twenty-five to thirty students take it. Again, the majority who are White. Black students don’t sign up for that class much. I’m not sure what that’s about. I would think they would want to learn about the culture through the writing because that’s what the writing does; it exposes us to the culture. I went to see the Drifters, Platters, of course none of the originals, and the Coasters, and that audience was primarily White. I could count the Black people, so I thought, “Hmm. That’s a little odd.” Those are doo-wop people from the [19]50s and the [19]60s. I would think there would be a lot of Black people there but no, there’s not. That was here in Pensacola at the Saengar Theatre just about a month ago.

	M:	I don’t know. What kind of trajectory does your teaching career take after you graduate from Talladega?

	H:	I started immediately. I graduated in June and got a job in August at my alma mater. My former speech teacher was on maternity leave, so I took her place and then the next year, I think she came back so I went to Ransom Middle School, that’s what it’s called now. Then it was Ransom School, grades one through twelve. That’s about [19]68 and that’s when Escambia County was moving into full integration. Remember when I mentioned by-choice, so [19]68 we’re going for full integration. The principal of Tate High School came to observe me while I







was at Ransom School and I think he was just trying to pick teachers so that he could integrate. I don’t know what their ratio was supposed to be, but he came and selected me and some others. I taught at Tate from [19]68 or [19]69 until [19]80. While I was at Tate, Lily Frasier, Ms. Lily’s daughter was among the first Black teachers at then Pensacola Junior College. She was getting ready to retire and PJC wanted to recruit some more Black instructors in the English department. She told Dr. Edna Hobbs, the chair of the English department, about me. Dr. Hobbs called and said, “I want to meet you. I’ve heard about you.” I went to talk to her, and she offered me a job. I said, “You know, I’ve been teaching high school kids all my life. I don’t know if I’m ready to teach college.” She said, “Oh, you’ll be fine.” I was really nervous about that. I’ll never forget, after the first class I had met with, a student came to me afterwards and said, “You’re using too many big words.” I probably was trying to sound scholarly since I was teaching college students. He said, “I didn’t understand half of those words.” That’s when I realized they’re all just students, it doesn’t matter. While I was at PJC, Dr. Stanton Millet at UWF, chair of English department, said, “We’ve opened up this writing lab and I’d like for you to do a couple hours a night when the lab is open. Come in from six to eight, or seven to nine.” I had nothing but grad students in there, two or three at a time, helping the students to write papers, preparing them for a standardized test, a test in standard written English. They need training. They write well, they’re masters students, but they need training. I did that while working full-time. Students kept saying, “All these neat little tricks you’re telling us about – have you ever written a book?” I started







making all these handouts. Dr. Millet said, “We have funds for a position.” He said, “It’s really you. The job description says ‘Short, Black female with red hair. The job is yours.’” So, I became an instructor, and my primary job was writing lab director and that’s where I’ve been since. That was after two years of being at PJC, I went on to UWF and I’ve been there since.

	M:	That’s quite a career.



	H:	And I’m still teaching. I’m seventy-three. I haven’t gone to the wrong classroom yet. Notice I said yet. But when that happens, it’s time. I think I’ll know, but I am so passionate about teaching. You heard me say out there, I was noticing something on TV, [Inaudible] said in class. I don’t care what I do, I find something I can use in class. I’m in the bank taking pictures of signs because I want my students to – I call it taking grammar out of the textbook and placing it in the classroom but at the same time I need them to understand let’s take it out of the classroom too. If you leave it in the classroom, you think it’s your subskill. We study in this room for about twenty minutes to an hour and you don’t use it anymore. Let’s take it out of the classroom too and put it into the board room and put some of it into the living room so we can look at the difference. That’s what keeps me going. I just love managing the way I’m going to teach something. I love teaching. I love the students. I love what I learn from them: their questions, their answers, their information, things that they are learning in other classes. “By the way, in psychology, we’re studying this kind of behavior and this character seems to have that kind of behavior.” So, there I am, I’m a student. Teaching allows me to be creative to be the organizer that I am, to be the student-learner,







to be the curious person, if necessary, to be the know-it-all. I try not to be the know-it-all because I like for my students to know, especially my lab assistants, it’s okay to say to your students when they ask you a question, “I don’t know.” Say it quickly, you know when you don’t know. Just say, “I have no idea.” But let’s look that up and let’s see what it’s supposed to be. I think they’re surprised when they find that I’m quick to concede and say, “I don’t know. I have no idea.” We do need to know that, and now that you asked, those of us who read students’ papers because that’s what writing lab assistants do, they read their peers’ papers and tutor them. I could probably teach forever. I just love it. It’s the actress or entertainer in me that wants to be up there in front and I just think there’s a way especially with grammar to make it more interesting than it has been made. It always has and it still is for many teachers, “Turn to page twenty- six. Let’s do exercise two.” Can you imagine? What is it – Bryan?

	M:	Ryan.



	H:	“Ryan, you read number one. Mamie, you read number two.” God, that’s work. In fact, I just talked to a young lady we were interviewing Wednesday, she called, she said, “I have sentence errors.” To apply to work in the lab, they have to do a tutoring simulation and a paper reading segment to see where they’d fit best. I said, “Come up with some sort of ice breaker, something usable and practical.” She said, “Like what?” I said, “I got a text the other day and I parked at Sacred Heart and I was impressed.” I said, “Didn’t that run on? It could have, these two sentences.” I still have the text. I think I put it for my online students to talk about: what do you think of this? It was funny. They all thought something was wrong







with me. It was actually well written, to me for a text, for a valet service. Somebody at Sacred Heart or somewhere cares enough that this text goes to all the drivers who park there. Somebody cares enough to make it right. So, I told her about that. Next time your grocery shopping, you see sentences everywhere. Just pick out one that looks as if it’s something people might call a run on but really isn’t and start off by saying, “Is this a run off?” We’re gonna be pretending to be your students during the interview, the summer staff. One of us, probably me, I’ll be pretending to be Mamie, a student. I’ll say, “That’s a run on because it goes on and on and you get to say, ‘Not really.’ Then you tell me why.” She said, “Oh okay.” I said, “When you’re working here, you’re going to get the job, we’re just going to see where we’re going to place you. Just remember when you’re teaching a skill, get out of that textbook. We don’t have to go to page six. You can just teach them what I call everyday grammar, grammar from the streets, grammar from the bank, from Publix, wherever.” That’s what I want to start. I want to start a revolution. I can get all of my labbies – I call them labbies, the people who work in the lab – to do that when they go into the classroom. We might just have a revolution. Have you ever been taught grammar in a boring way? You know what I’m talking about.

	M:	Oh yeah. It’s not easy to be taught grammar but it’s helpful when it’s done. I hope your revolution comes together. You’ve also mentioned books that you’ve written or put together. Can I ask when that started and where the inspiration came and how that came back?







	H:	The students who came to the writing lab who said, “I’d like these handouts that you prepared.” My career wasn’t lined up to be an academic scholar at a university. I just loved teaching and wanted to teach and be happy at Tate High School, but I’m still happy where I am. These students said, “Can you put this in some kind of book format?” So, I did. Everything was all typed back before computers were popular. I just put it together, took it to the print shop on campus and they did the spiral binding and put it in the UWF bookstore. Then a publisher came and said, “This is good stuff. We can publish it.” So, they did. Then I got another offer that was Kendall Hunt, then R.E.A. Research Education Association asked me to put together a book on just the basics of grammar, parts of speech. I think I found a way successfully to get around the terminology and make language accessible so I could teach students to say, “Each of one you has,” instead of, “Each one of you have,” without mentioning indefinite pronouns, prepositional phrases, verbs, nouns, because some of them doesn’t know what all of that is. “Verb? What’s that?” So, I put that book together and then after that, the African American Heritage Society wanted to do this kind of project, similar to this, but it was written history. I was a member and was asked by the person who came up with the idea, she’s a colleague, “Hey, would you help edit some of the pieces and would you write a piece?” By then, I had only written a grammar book. I said, “Write a piece? About what?” She said, “I’m sure you can think of something. You’re always creating things.” So, Ms. Lily’s school was the first thing that came to my mind, then the story I told you about Bull’s Store, living on Heathman, the plantation. In the first volume, I have Ms. Lily’s







School and Bull’s Store, and then after that we made six volumes and each one – I think I was forced, but it was a good forcing to write something for those two editions. Then the Images in Black, I wrote for that. I think that’s about all I’ve produced in the way of writing. Actually now, I’m doing some classroom posters to go in each classroom at UWF. That’s a big project because – what did one of my labbies call it? She said, “You and the marketing person need to do some grammar marketing.” I said, “You’re right.” Because she’s the marketing person and see I’m the person who won’t write that much. She wants this one skill on comma splices to be that much, so here I am, trying to think from here and go to there. It’s not easy, but that’s my project. I’ve been putting stuff on Facebook here lately. I’m past due. I call it the Write Advice. While I’m creative with the written word as far as explaining grammar, I don’t know how to do memes and all those things. I have a lab assistant, so I just give it to her, and she puts Write Advice. I think I’ve done about eight. I try to do them once a week, I’m behind a week. It’s not that I don’t have them, I just haven’t had time to post it. Some of the posts, people have been saying, “Hey this is good stuff! This is helpful.” I’m one of those people who believe that I should’ve been the grammar girl. I’m just not enough of a visionary to have done that but the kinds of stuff she’s doing, those things I’ve been doing anyway just at a local level because I’ve been on Channel 3 to talk about a grammar issue. I actually have a radio program every Monday morning on WRNE called Choice Radio AM/FM. I think some twenty years ago, the owner of the station said, “Can we think of something you can do on the radio?” I said, “I don’t know. Do you want to try something like ‘It’s







GrammarTime?’” That’s what we called it. I use camel case, capital T in the middle of GrammarTime. It’s primarily for students, but since professionals were calling in, now it’s for students and professionals. What did I do this past week? I gave them a sentence: “It’s seldom you see.” The apostrophe we seldom see its proper. You spell the U the two its, It’s proper use. The lady who called in was having a hard time. She kept trying to spell “seldom.” I said, “We’re talking about the word ‘its.’ I just need you to spell both of these. Anyone who gets it right, then I’ll ask for the person’s name, “Who are you? You got it right and here’s why. Then the radio station gives her tickets to something or whatever prizes he has available.” I do that because I haven’t done it in a long time, but when I first came onboard at UWF, I did something on the local NPR network, the UWF station called The Write Stuff. It’s kind of a springboard from that.

	M:	Where did this love of grammar in particular come from?



	H:	Probably diagraming Shakespearean sentences [Laughter]. I ended up being the only person who got it right. Actually, the class I teach called Modern Grammar, we don’t diagram but we parse. We tear those sentences apart and this class is a class for prospective teachers and what I want them to learn is you don’t have to teach your students diagraming or parsing. That’s not necessary. You want to teach them to write and write better but look at how much you know. I just need you to know grammar well enough to explain it to them simply enough is the whole student learning goal and outcome. I’m sure that’s where it came from. I’m here from Ms. Lily too. I think she originally taught me the whole concept of diagraming. At ages five and six we were diagramming sentences on the board. I







think that’s why among other things, I was able to be the one in Mrs. Barges’ class to get that diagramming right because I had that background. I just love analyzing sentences. It’s hard for me to listen to something or read something and I don’t diagram it in my head. I see this tree. I can diagram that sentence and then I know it’s right, or if I can’t diagram it, I try to figure it what is the subject here.

	M:	Fair enough.



	H:	I have a t-shirt that says, “I’m silently correcting your grammar.” I’m forever doing that.

	M:	[Laughter].



	H:	Silently correcting at lunch and breakfast. I saw a couple and the guy was trying to be impressive, and he said, “B’nai Temple,” it’s the name of a Jewish temple, and he said, “B’nai means ‘childrens.’” I thought, “He just killed [Inaudible] right there. These ‘childrens.’” I thought, “I’ll be able to use that,” because I talk to my students about credibility. I said, “You need to have credibility as a writer so when you do write an intentional fragment, you’ve established credibility and the reader knows this is wrong, but the writer knew that.” I’m gonna be using that as an example. Anything that guy says or writes from his [Inaudible] is going to be wrong. He thinks that childrens is a word. Go figure. But he was impressing the lady he was with! [Laughter]. It just didn’t impress me.

	M:	He knew his audience, I guess. H:	You’re right.







	M:	We’ve been sitting here for a minute. I don’t want to take too much of your evening. Is there anything we haven’t talked about yet that you would’ve wanted to cover?

	H:	I think at the end of that narrative, that vignette that I wrote about Ms. Lily, I said she ignited my soul and I think she did. Just by her saying—I don’t know that she knew what she said until her daughter told me later – "Mom said you’re going to be great. You can do anything.” I still don’t think I’ve done everything; I don’t have a terminal degree. I always tell my students when they call me Dr. Hixon, “All rights deserved.” Just U, but I think I all rights are deserved and I take that back to Ms. Lily. The first word I ever learned to spell was “Frigidaire,” the name brand on my parents’ refrigerator. They brought me to Ms. Lily’s, thank goodness. I don’t know why they chose that school. I guess because there was a neighborhood private school. They paid a dollar a week for me to attend, $1.50, the same thing my Aunt Mamie was making. A little bit more. I knew better for that, to have had that experience. I never knew that here I am, seventy-three and I was four then, that I’d be talking about her in this way, but I am glad I had the experience. Glad to have shared it too. This oral history, as I was saying to the guy from Channel 3, that’s the history that I know, because not much of my own family history is written down. It’s still oral history. Some of it I have compiled, and I’ve written it down and I have given it to my great-niece. Do you think she cares? Not a bit [Laughter]. I’m hoping one day she will appreciate that information.

	M:	People come around. It takes a while.







	H:	It does. When I was her age, I might’ve been asking a lot of questions or didn’t matter. Aunt Mamie was our griot, the family historian. She was telling us whether we wanted to know it or not. It was in that cultural context, almost in the form of porch-sitting gossip that she told it, and that made it even better.

	M:	She sounds like an extraordinary person.



	H:	Oh yeah. She could’ve been Barbara Jordan if she had had that education. She didn’t.

	M:	Thank you very much. H:	Nice talking to you.

	M:	Nice talking to you too. [End of interview]

	Transcribed by:	Heather Halak



	Audit-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, February 24, 2021 Final-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, February 26, 2021