AAHP 231; Rawls; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 231 Claudia Rawls

African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Danika Baptiste on December 1, 2011 37 minutes | 21 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Ms. Claudia Rawls expands upon her experience living in an all-black community in Gainesville which instilled a sense of Black pride within her from a young age. She also delves into the impact that integration had on this sense of community, in regards to both the educational system and other community-based matters. Additionally, Ms. Rawls contrasts the intergenerational differences that exist within black communities now and in her past. Further, she describes her sentiments concerning the election of Barack Obama as President of the United States and expresses her belief in the importance of voting.



Keywords: [African American History; Gainesville; Integration; Black Pride]























































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 231

Interviewee: Claudia Rawls Interviewer: Danika Baptiste Date: December 1, 2011



	B:	This is Danika Baptiste with Miss Claudia Rawls, R-A-W-L-S. And we’re beginning—this is December 1st, 2011. Ms. Rawls, when and where were you born?

	R:	Gainesville, Florida, April 11th, 1960.



	B:	How long have you lived in Gainesville or in the Alachua County. R:	All my life.

	B:	Ok. Please tell me about your childhood.



	R:	Childhood, I had a very good childhood, even though I was raised in a Black community, all-black community. Back then, we had all-Black businesses, and we—it was a good neighborhood to raise up in. Even though, on the next street that I actually lived on, it was not a street that was accessible for kids to play in. Back then kids played instead of had video games and all the other stuff. So we would always go to the back street, which was out neighbor’s street in order for us to play.

	B:	What schools did you attend?



	R:	Kindergarten to third grade was an all-Black school called A. Quinn Jones Elementary School. Fourth grade, it was integration. I went to Sidney Lanier Elementary School. Fifth and sixth grade was at J.J. Finley Elementary School.

	B:	Which schools integrated? R:	Sidney Lanier.

	B:	And how was it? Like, you know, attending classes? Was it right after integration?





	R:	Yes. It had to be ‘cause I was in—I was eight years old by then. So that would had been 1968, which means it was a big change for me ‘cause I thought that as growing up with my brothers, who were older, they all—and family members all attended a Black school. I thought that okay I would be headed to a Black school, but that was round the time that they said no. We were sent to J.J.Fin—I mean excuse me, we were sent to Sidney Lanier in 1968. It was a litlle different because now, I didn’t really have a problem with integration. I mean, we knew that the classes were now mixed, but I really didn’t have a problem with it. It was a little different for us because they did not provide a bus for us. We had to— actually—either if our parents didn’t take us, we would have to walk. Mind you, we were living on Fifth Avenue and J.J. Finley—I mean excuse me—Sidney Lanier was off Northwest Sixteenth Avenue. So a lot of has to either walk, like I say, or out parents had to take us to school.

	B:	Okay. That’s a pretty far walk.



	R:	Yeah. But it wasn’t a bad walk because if you walked in a group, it’s like almost a straight shot. A few corners and you’re there so.

	B:	Was it safer to walk in a group or better or was it just, you guys—



	R:	No, we were fine as a group. No one really bothered us. We really didn’t experience that. No one really bothered us.

	B:	And how—Before going to integrated school, how was the education experience from, you know?

	R:	Remind me, you have to remember, I’m still very young at that time— B:	Of course.





	R:	But it was fine because J.J—where A. Quinn Jones is located, it was only a few blocks from where I grew up as a child, as in being in a predominantly Black neighborhood, so it wasn’t a big challenge for us to go to school ‘cause it was right up the street. And besides, I always got a ride to school anyways. My aunt took me to school, so I never really had to walk. But, as far as being in that environment, it was a lot different because very seldom were Whites allowed to come in our neighborhood. It wasn’t a factor of reverse discrimination; It’s just that they did not come into the neighborhood ‘cause, like I say, it was predominantly White—I mean predominantly Black! So you rarely a saw a White person, even though there were, if I remember correctly, at least two or three stores that were owned by Whites. But—

	B:	In that neighborhood?



	R:	In our neighborhood, but our neighborhood was predominantly Black. We owned every—there were all types of Black businesses. We had barbershops, shoe shops. There were restaurants. There was… I don’t know what you call ‘em.

They kinda like clubs, but something else we called them back then. I can’t remember. [Laughter] The juke? [Laughter] We called it the juke!

	B:	The juke?



	R:	The juke! They were like juke houses. They were like the juke joints. They had like alcohol and a place for you to go to dance. But it was predominant—It was Blacks! Everything back then was Black-owned for Blacks. So back then you grew up with a sense of Black pride because back then, you didn’t see—you didn’t see young men walking round here with the pants hanging down there





behind. Back then, men wore, wore suits. They wore shirt and ties. It was like they were dressed—Sunday was almost like every day. They would work, get off work, go home, shower, change, come back. And you would see ‘em now in their suits.

	B:	So they still like remains Black pride even in those times?



	R:	There was Black pride back then, even in that time, like I said, everything you needed was in that five, six blocks radius. Everywhere you need to go it was there, even the stores that you needed—the little country stores—was there in the neighborhood. Everything you needed was in that neighborhood. So there really wasn’t a reason to go outside of it.

	B:	Well, what did you do for medical care then or something?



	R:	Oh no, we still went to the hospital! It was still discrimination, but we still went to the hospital. At the time, it was a community hospital, which was Alachua General, and we also had like Dr. Banks, who did a lot of family practice as well OB. So most, majority of the people went to Dr. Banks.

	B:	And he was African American?



	R:	Yes, and they had Dr. Cosby, who was the dentist. So, we basically had a lot of our own services, but you still had to attend—if you needed to be seen in a hospital, you would still had to go to—Alachua General. Even though they, from what I understand, that they did have a unit that was designed just for African American patients. So there were segregation, even in the hospitals.

	B:	What changes have you seen in your community throughout the years [Laughter] according to race relations then? Anything that sticks out the most to you.





	R:	Communities have changed. There’s, to me, there’s no longer the pride that used to be in the Black community. We’ve sort of gotten away from that part because now, even when I still go back on the street that our race and the neighborhood that I was raised on, like, it has been fully integrated. And back then, you would’ve never saw Whites likely actually living in that area. But now they’re there, and it’s still a difference because the pride is not there that used to be.

Somehow we’ve gotten so far off track that we’ve lost sight of who we are and what we came through, and even though you see a lot of younger generation look at and say that “it doesn’t take all that.” Yes it does. It takes that and more. Back then when you said it takes a village, that’s what it really meant because back then you had everybody raising and inputting into your child’s life, whether they related to you or not. Everybody back then helped raise your child. You didn’t have the issues that you have now. Back then, if you did something, mother knew about it before you got home. You got a beating before you got home. Then you got another when you got home. So, everybody looked out for everybody. Now if you say something to somebody, they ready to call the police and put you behind bars instead of allowing discipline to be taking place.

Somewhere along the way we have forgotten from where we come from. We have forgotten all about it. And we’re focusing on the here and now, but we’ve forgotten what people had to go through to get to where we are. We take for granted that we’ve always had the freedom and the rights that we have, and we haven’t. And as the younger generation look at it, they have forgotten, or they don’t want to acknowledge that what people had to go through get to where they





are now. They take it that it has always been there when hasn’t. Somebody had to pave the road for them to get there. People lost their lives. People marched to get to where they are now and they don’t take full advantage of it, or they just abuse it.

B:  And you mentioned something about like them having pride. Where would you say that they learned this pride from, or having this, you know, self-awareness and self-pride?

	R:	It’s something that was instilled from generation to generation, because with each generation there was something that instilled in them that, “okay, we’re gonna be better, and we’re gonna take it to another level.” But now, the problem is you’ve gotten off track because there’s nobody to really lead you to say, “Okay, this is how you act. This is how you dress.” They’ve gotten so far off the mark that no one cares how they look! No one cares how they dress or what they say. They just out there doing their own thing. And society says, “we don’t care. If that’s you wanna be and look like a fool, then you go right ahead on. It’s no skin off our backs.” You know, they’ve made a way for us. Education is out there if you want an education. There’s no excuse for it. And if you gotta work little harder to get there, then you work a little harder. Back then, you worked for what you got. It wasn’t easy, It wasn’t handed to you, but you took pride in I because you know what, you earned it! Its mine! I earned it. I worked for it. I have what I have because I made the sacrifices. And now, this generation don’t want to sacrifice. They want the here and the now. But once it’s gone, what do you have





to fall back on? So if you never have to work hard for something, then how can you appreciate it?

	B:	Yeah. So you’d say like the Black community then worked harder than the ones that do now?

	R:	Yes, because now everything—I mean even though everything is there for you, you had to work harder because you know what, you never got a break. There was no affirmative action. Even though we don’t have affirmative action now because it has been outlawed, but there was no affirmative action. You just took what you had, and you worked with what you had. It didn’t matter that you didn’t always have the best, but you had something and you made something out of nothing. So now you have all—you have everything handed to you, and you don’t take advantage of it, so you don’t appreciate it. It doesn’t matter now.

	B:	Take it for granted.



	R:	Take it for granted and the fact that the here and now and that’s how they want to survive. That quick money, that fast lifestyle, but if it’s gone, what do you have to fall back on? Education is squandered now because so many people don’t take advantage of it. They choose to take the fast life and then what? You have nothing because if it’s taken from you, what do you have? Nothing, there’s nothing to fall back on. And see, and also, they took prayer out of school. I remember a time when we would go to school as kids, we would have to recite the pledge of allegiance. We would pray before class start. Prayer was taken out of school. Spanking was taken away. They don’t allow you to spank your kids anymore. Growing up, hey! Spanking was nothing! You got em; you survived;





you went to school with whelps or whatever, but you got up; you survived and you kept going and you learned to respect—parents. Kids don’t respect their parents now. They don’t even fear ‘em. Growing up, I feared. [Laughter] Because if they said something, it wasn’t a barter; it wasn’t a question of why. You just did it. There wasn’t—regardless of what it was, if I said that’s what you do, that’s what you do. If I say jump, you jump! You don’t question how high; you just jump. Now they want to sit there and argue with you. So I think because we’re starting so young now—no, that’s not really an excuse. Because we lack the education and the knowledge to take on the role of parents—they’re having them so young that they’re not fully developed to understand what it’s like to take pride or to be something. If you never were taught, then how you know to be that way?

	B:	And how would you say like your family—being raised in your family—influenced everything that you’ve worked hard for and the way you believe, and everything like that?

	R:	Because it’s—growing up in the family the way I did, we were always taught to take pride. Take pride in yourself. Take pride in the way you look. Take pride in the way that you act. That, whether you realize it or not, somebody is watching you. So, you just don’t go out and act and be a certain way because like I say, that goes back to the way you’re raised. We didn’t go out there acting any kind of way in public because it was frowned upon. And when you got home, you got a lesson for, you got—you learned the hard way about acting a fool in public. That was not frowned upon. You go out, you carry yourself the way you’re supposed to carry—you take pride in yourself! And that probably is part of what—and to





help others. I was always taught—If you can help somebody, then you help them. Don’t ever think you’re better than anyone else because you’re not. Regardless to what you have, you’re no better than anyone else. Because, you know, if you lose that, then you’re in the same boat that person in, regardless to what it is. So if you can help somebody, you help them. Growing up, we were always taught to be in church. We had to be in the church. It didn’t matter, if you were under the roof, you were in church, regardless of the age. You were in church, and you were involved in the church. You didn’t—It wasn’t a question of whether you were getting up and going. You went to church. And growing up in church it also taught me how I’m supposed to treat people. It also taught me that to be involved, to actually care about someone else, you know, those that are always in need. Like I say, if you can help somebody, you help them, regardless, because you never know how it’s gonna come back on you. What you do for somebody today, somebody else will do for you tomorrow. So growing up, I was always taught to try and help people. To do whatever I can for somebody—if it’s in my power to do. To treat people right and to live right. And that’s how I try to live my life. To always be able to help somebody if I can help them.

	B:	Growing up, were you ever made to feel like you shouldn’t have this self- confidence, that you shouldn’t have this pride?

	R:	Oh no! [Laughter]. One thing about me—no because I was always taught that you can be whatever you want to be. Don’t ever let anybody tell you that you cannot be something you wanna be. It’s up to you to be whatever you desire to be, not what they dictate or try to say. If you wanna do this, then you do it to the





best of your ability. Don’t ever let anybody tell you not to do something. And that’s how I’ve always tried to live my life. You don’t—you don’t define me by what you think I should be. If you wanna be this, then you be that! But don’t let somebody else define who you are because you’re who God designed you to be, so nobody can take anything from you. The only person who can stop you is you. So if you decide to be a senator, then you shoot for that goal. Don’t let anybody and everybody tell you no. And I have always preached that to my daughter when she was younger; that no, don’t let nobody decide what you wanna be. You decide what you wanna be. And if they have a problem with it, then that’s their problem. That’s not your problem. So, that’s why I always told, “hey, if you wanna do that, then you do it,” regardless to what they say. Because, you know what?

They’re where they are because they chose to be at that spot, but that don’t mean you have to be there, or that don’t mean you have to settle for less. So, you shouldn’t have to. That’s your choice. If you settle for less, and you try not to change it, then that’s your fault.

B:  And do you think that these strong values that your parents instilled in you is a response to growing up in those times, or, to living in just Black community as opposed to the white community; how you’d be viewed by them or something?

	R:	Yes! [Laughter] Yes because that’s how we’re—that’s how you had to think. That’s how you had to be because they weren’t going to give you anything. Everything you got, you got you had to earn it. So you had to make up your mind that, “if his what I want to do, then I have to do it.” And yes, Imma face obstacles.





I mean, there have been plenty of times—when growing up—that I was in positions where, or involved in stuff, and I would be the only Black child.

	B:	Can you elaborate on one of those?



	R:	Well, it’s like—years ago, when I was younger, I was in a play. I was the only Black girl in the play. Everybody else was white. So, even as I got older, it seems like I always ended up in situations where I was the only Black person there.

Even at my job, when I started working in [19]80-something, I would be the only Black person there.

	B:	And where do you work?



	R:	At the time it was Alachua General. Even outside, when they would have like activities outside, like they would have parties and whatever, I would be the only one invited. And I was expected to show up and still be the only Black there. So you know I got into that token mentality, the token. But it also helped me because I learned how to relate, and how to be in different situations and be able to communicate, and be able to relate to the topic that was taking place. So it doesn’t bother me if I end up in a situation where I am the only Black there. It doesn’t bother me. I just deal with it and go on, because it’s like you’re prepared to be in a situation and you never know. Some people can handle it; some people can’t. You just have to learn to deal with and go on. But, it also gives you insight as to where you are because if you can relate, on any level, you’re fine.

But you have to learn to adapt and relate. Sometimes you have to roll with the flow. It’s not gone always be in a situation, but you have to be able to relate and





deal with it. And I always found that, “okay, if this is where I’m at and this is what I have to deal with for a certain period of time, Imma have to deal with it.”

	B:	So, you would say it was easy for you?



	R:	Didn’t bother me. It may have bothered them, but it didn’t bother me [Laughter].



Sometimes God design certain situations in your life where you end up in situations and its preparing you for down the road. You never understand why, until years down the road when you actually see it and you become a part of it. You think back, “okay, now I remember why I had to adjust to this situation. Now I understand why.” Because, when you out and you relate, then it’s okay.

	B:	Prepare you for next—



	R:	Prepare for whatever the next step will be in life.



	B:	And were you ever made to feel different from the other employees?



	R:	No. One thing about me I do not lack confidence! [Laughter] I make no excuses.



No, never bothered me because they knew where I stood, and I knew where I stood. I never was the type to run away from a situation. That’s just… That’s just the way I am. That’s just the way I was raised, because I can—if I have to roll with the best, I have to roll with the best. It doesn’t bother me. You know? But I will never apologize for who I am, but if you ask me a question, I’m gonna respond to it. I’m not the type to just say, “okay, your feelings and I should curve my answer because?”

	B:	[Laughter]



	R:	If you ask the question, you’re gonna get a direct answer back. And you may not like it, but you gonna ask it because you know what, you may not like me but





you’re gonna respect me. If I respect you, you’re gonna respect me. Now if you don’t want the answer, don’t ask! [Laughter] Because you know respect goes both ways. It’s mutual. It should be a mutual thing. If I respect you, you should respect me. Don’t look at me differently because I’m a different shade color than you, because we’re still the same. Take away…Take away the outer shell, we’re all the same color underneath. We’re all blood and guts. [Laughter] So if you take that away, we’re all the same. The problem is people get hung up on color. And they always assume that because you’re Black at times, you’re inferior. But no!

	B:	Do you think that’s still— R:	Yes!

	B:	An idea that still holds true today?



	R:	It holds true today. It is evident in every area of our lives. We still see it today. B:	One of my questions is how did Obama winning the election make you feel?

	R:	That is probably one of the proudest moments I ever felt in my life, and I think it applies to a lot of people. If you look at people that are sixty, seventy, eighty, ninety years old, because all their lives they have been told, “a Black man will never be president of these United States.” So for him to become president, it shows that our time had arrived. That we can no longer say we can’t be president because you’re taught, again, as youth, you’re taught that a Black man will never be president in the United States. Coming all the way up, you were never taught that a Black man can be president. Simply because Blacks have always been taught that they’re inferior to whites. So when Obama became president, one thing about me, I believe everybody go vote. Everybody that’s Black on the face





of the planet should vote, because you know what? You never forget those people that died and never got a chance to vote. If you take away sixty years, if it was sixty years back, we wouldn’t be voting. We wouldn’t be living where we’re living. We wouldn’t be going to schools where we’re going to schools. We couldn’t walk certain neighborhoods. So you can’t forget from whence you came because it’s only been sixty years. If you look at it, sixty years or more, you wouldn’t be doing what you’re doing today. So you can never forget from whence you came, because that’s a short period of time in history to realize if you look back sixty years, you couldn’t do some of the stuff you’re doing now and get away with it. So, to me, when he became president, it let us know, “hey, we can empower; we can do whatever we want to do.” It’s up to us. And ever since he been there, he been catching pure dee hell because they [clap] don’t like the fact that he Black and he in as the president. Republicans have been fighting him, and all that man is trying to do is turn this raggedy country around. [Laughter] I am so sorry; y’all wanna delete that but hey, that is how it is! I make no apologies for the things I say [laughter] because it’s true. It is true! They have fought him the minute they got in. We have not overcome. According to them, we have not overcome. They will never see—in their eyes, we have not overcome. He doesn’t deserve to be in there, and I applaud him because you know he walking a thin line, but that’s okay. He doing better than most of us; some of us better just cross that line and remind him from the other side of the family. Society, yes, we saw an outpouring on Blacks and Whites that actually voted for him. But we see the price that he’s paying now trying to do something to help this country, and so





many aren’t ready for it. I don’t know if some Americans will ever be ready for it, which is sad to say because they fail to realize once this planet cease to exist, you’re either going to heaven or you’re going to hell. It’s not based on color, so they need to get through the head, it’s not based on color when you go to heaven or you go to hell. God don’t judge you on color; he judge you on your character and the things that you do in society. Sorry! [Laughter]

	B:	No problem, I love this! [laughter] But since you’re like a strong proponent for voting, and like you know the rights that based on people who died for us in the previous years, were you active in trying to get people to vote during the 2008 election?

	R:	No! But you know what? Everybody I knew—well you know I didn’t go; I didn’t work the things, work the booths and stuff, I wasn’t doing that. But you know everybody I knew, I made sure they went to vote. People at work—Did you go vote? We going to vote! I would leave work and go take people to vote. You got that right! They needed to vote. My daughter, I saw her register to—she registered to vote. My niece, I know she registered to vote. I was calling everybody. Everybody! Are you registered to vote? Did you vote? [Laughter] Because even after that election, it’s still important that you still vote, and I do. I still vote because I think it’s important. I think we need to always remember what we went through to get to that. We take it for granted. And for those people who sit there and say they don’t vote, that it don’t make a difference, I don’t wanna ever see ‘em open their mouth. Whether it makes a difference or not, people died for that. No other race, other than the Jews, what they went through, can they





say they were never allowed to vote. No other race can say a simple right was taken from them or never allowed for them to have but us. And we quickly forget all the time that we have to fight. Even the Voter’s Right Act. They still have to renew that every so many year to allow us to vote. Black people don’t know that; some of ‘em don’t. If they don’t, we don’t vote. They forget stuff. They need to remember that. I’m passionate about it. I’m sorry; I shouldn’t—

	B:	No, it’s perfectly fine! I love passion.



R:  Oh yeah, I shouldn’t have it at this age, but that’s one of my pet peeves. Anytime somebody tell me they didn’t vote, I forget, and I just go left field on ‘em because I think we should always vote. Whether you like who running or not, vote! So you know, I’m very passionate about that.

B:  So I can predict you’re going to be voting— R:  Yes ma’am!

B:   2012.



	R:	Yes ma’am! Barack Hussein Obama, again. Him and Joe Biden, again, [Laughter] cause them fools over there on the other side, pray, you gotta pray. Yes [Laughter]. I’m sorry—delete that child. Delete all that. [Laughter] Yes, I will be voting. I will be voting.

	B:	So I take you’ve been watching the, you know, the debates, couples those— R:	No, I don’t watch the Republican debates because they’re dealing, right now—

their debates are designed for the party. They’re only reaching out to the Republican party right now. When it gets to the general election, I’ll like to see just how many of them are actually gonna cross the—cross that main street.





Everybody has a main street or the railroad track and go ‘cross them, and tell them people over there who don’t have food to eat, whose barely holding on to the roof over their head, what they’re gonna do to fix it. I wanna know where they gonna go—if they cross those street and go right over there into those neighborhoods where Black people are starving; where all the other minorities are starving right now—and tell me what they’re gonna do to change this situation. That I’m waiting to see, because they can’t win without it.

	B:	Yeah, you need everyone’s votes to win.



	R:	They can’t win without it. This is America. They cannot win without it. So, yeah I try, but it just bothers with me and bothers with me. It bothers with me when they’re not trying to help those who in need. There are more people—for America to be the richest country, it’s one of the poorest country in so many other ways.

You got babies without food. You got elderly without medicine. You got people without roofs, or a place to lay their head at night. And yet they’re up there talking about we don’t have a problem. They on a planet that we don’t know of because for them to act like these problems aren’t going on in the world: they have a problem! I have a problem with them. Just because you behind your big wall, the neighbor ‘cross the street or on the other side, whose bout to lose their house and don’t have anything to eat, do you not care about them? So how can you care about some people and not care about all the people? We’re all Americans.

	B:	It was as if he’s like, as you said before, you’d have to start seeing people as an equal, you know, before that happens.





	R:	And they’re not ready to do that. They’re not ready to embrace. If they did, I would probably be one of the first to say I’ll switch and—I would be ready to vote for ‘em. But, I can’t see it happening. I can’t see it. America is still divided, whether they want to recognize it or not, or even acknowledge that it exist, America is still divided.

	B:	And do you think race is like one of those big divisions or other factors—



	R:	Race will always be a division because they choose not to deal with it. They think they have embraced it by allowing a Black president, but that’s not dealing with the underlying issue. There’s always gonna be a divide until people realize that there’s no such thing as the haves and the have not, the rich or the poor; we’re all in the same boat together because one can’t make it without the other one.

Whether they realize it or not, one cannot make it without the other one because if you take all those who are poor and put them on a separate island, what you have left? You have the rich, but what do they know? Not a darn thing. [Laughter] Not a darn thing. They don’t know how to do anything. They don’t know how to cook. They don’t know how to clean. They don’t know how to do nothing because you know what? The ones that don’t have are the ones that’s supplying all their needs.

	B:	I read a quote that said that, you know, “if the rich had to do their own food, they would starve.”

	R:	Yes. And it’s the same thing. The poor who’ve never had, if they got the money, they wouldn’t know what to do with it. Because, they’ve never had it and they would get it and make dumb decisions because they never had it. And all the





things they haven’t had, they’ll try to get it, and they’ll lose it all. So it has to be a balance. And America has not learned to be balance. Whenever they take race out the factor, and just look at each as the same, then we’ll be one. Hopefully before it ends.

	B:	[Laughter]. And, what would you suggest for race not to be a problem? What would some changes have to be for race not to be a problem? Because you mentioned it being swept underneath the rug, as if people—they don’t make it an issue anymore as if—

	R:	I think they have to deal with it head on. I think that we have to look at race differently, not just say, “that Blacks have come a long way; that they have everything that we’ve given them—allowed them to have everything that they need to make it.” But I think you have to go back and really look at history. I think people look at a certain part of history and say “Okay, that’s how it really is.” No, look back and give credit to where credit is due. Look at all the inventions that Black people have contributed to this society. Recognize the fact that Washington—the capital—was built by slaves. Acknowledge the fact that not only George Washington or Thomas Jefferson produced Black kids off of slavery, but there’s a lot more. Look at the Constitution and realize that even though Thomas Jefferson said “We hold these truths to be self-evident that all men are created equal,” at the time he was owning slaves. [Coughing] Excuse me. Look at that!

Look at the fact the founding fathers some of them were hypocrites. Just acknowledge it and go on and find a way to build a commonality. Find a commonality among all of us because as long as you’re downing one race, you’ll





never be equal. We have to look past all that. You know MLK said look at the character.

	B:	I think that’s true.



	R:	And we need look at the character not the color. B:	I think it’s a good message to live by.

	R:	Because we have Blacks and Whites that are sorry, and we have some that are good.

	B:	Well thank you Miss Rawls for this interview. R:	You’re welcome!

	B:	It was wonderful.



	R:	I hope answered some of your questions and help you. And I apologize B:	It was perfect. It was perfect.

[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Randi Gill-Sadler June 23, 2015 Audit-edited by:	Juanita Duque, January 17, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 21, 2019