AAHP 444; Taylor; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 444 Robert Taylor

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Vickie Oldham on August 18, 2015 45 minutes | 26 pages



Abstract: Mr. Robert Taylor reflects on his time growing up in Zellwood, Florida and Overtown, Florida. He was raised by his grandmother in the country in Zellwood where they grew all their food and were very independent. With his grandfather’s passing, him and his sisters moved to Overtown, Florida in Sarasota to live with his mom. He reflects on life in Overtown and the transition from living in the country to living in the city. He received an academic scholarship to attend Morehouse College, but was drafted into the army in 1943. He discusses the places he traveled with the military and going back to Morehouse on the GI bill. He came back to Sarasota and reflects on getting a pool for his community and providing swimming lessons and recreation for the Black Youth.

Now the center is named after him.



Keywords: [Overtown, Florida; Newtown, Florida; Morehouse College; Robert L. Taylor Center; African American History]



Standards:

	SS.912.A.2.5 Jim Crow laws

	SS.912.C.2.8 Analyze the impact of citizen participation as a means of achieving political and social change.































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 444 (Newtown Oral History Project) Interviewee: Robert Taylor

Interviewer: Vickie Oldham Date: August 18, 2015



	T:	Robert Taylor



	O:	And where were you born? T:	Winter Garden, Florida.

	O:	What year?



	T:	1924.



	O:	1924. Tell me about your life Mr. Taylor growing up in Orlando or it was called Zellwood.

	T:	We was in Zellwood up in a little community. It was a country place. We had our own food. I can’t ever say I found people went hungry because we raised everything we needed right there. We had seven acres citrus grove. We had two and a half acres for farming. We grew our own food. We grew everything. We had a big pine we got our own lumber from so we were almost independent. And the whole community was like one big community where if one had, everybody had—with your hogs for example. So they shared with the whole neighborhood. Nobody went hungry and my granddaddy, he theory, his thing was any kid—he didn’t care how young—had to be full before he left the table. He make sure he was full. We didn’t have steaks and all this but we had good food.

	O:	What kind of food did you have?



	T:	Just regular food. We ate breakfast food. Well he always had ham because we cured our own ham. Ham and bacon and beans, greens. We had a vegetable garden, with a huge vegetable garden. And we fed our family and the families in





need. We had cane fields, made our own syrup and all that stuff. We did everything.

	O:	And you told me when you were born right? T:	Yeah.

	O:	Okay so now you were brought up in Zellwood and now at age thirteen you had to move. Why?

	T:	Yeah, because my granddaddy passed and my grandmother could no longer take care of us by ourselves. So we had a big house, my family. A lot of orphans and nephews and nieces all in that one. I had three brothers and a sister. It was a big two-story house and it had a lot of people in it. So we was no lack for company. [Laughter]

	O:	So why did you come to Sarasota? Did you come to Sarasota alone or with uncles?

	T:	No just my sister and I came to live with my mother. That’s all. In fact, I really didn’t know my mother until I came here because my grandmother was momma all this time. And I knew that’s who raised me, that’s who took care of me, that’s who taught me everything. But then I had to get used to my mother. After that came in it was good but it was different. It was a different thing between momma and mother.

	O:	Absolutely and so you moved to the Overtown area with your mom? T:	Yeah.

	O:	Tell me about life in Overtown and how different it was than Zellwood.





	T:	Well Zellwood was all country and this was supposed to be city. It was an upgrade that way but I think I had just as much fun in Zellwood as I did here, of course you still had to make your own fun there wasn’t no organized recreation. So it wasn’t that much different. In Zellwood I went to this one-room school and it was a benefit to me. See the one-room school, people talk about it but if you in a one-room school while [you’re] playing, the teacher’s teaching the other class and you were there but you can’t help but overheard what they’re being taught.

So you learn a lot of stuff just by being in there. When I came to Sarasota, I was ahead of the class here. I moved up one grade. Even in a one-room school I was ahead of the rest of them here.

	O:	Okay so tell me about then the Booker School that you went to. I guess you were in about what grade? Third grade?

	T:	No I was in about what, seventh grade—sixth or seventh grade when I came here.

	O:	Oh at thirteenth, okay seventh grade.



	T:	Yeah seventh grade and so it was just a normal school. I lived about maybe two blocks from the school at the time.

	O:	Where did you live?



	T:	On Twelfth Street, Twelfth and Central. It was a drug store on Central Avenue; we lived right behind the drug store.

	O:	How big was that house?



	T:	We had a three-bedroom house.



	O:	That’s nice. That’s a nice spacious house.





	T:	It was a nice spacious—we had a lot of space. Then later my sister moved back to Zellwood because she didn’t like it there.

	O:	Why didn’t she like it?



	T:	Well she’s a country girl at heart, she really couldn’t adjust. O:	She couldn’t adjust to the city.

	T:	And so she went back. [Laughter] So anyway—and she had been getting on with my mother when they was together—she was pastry cook at a little café on Main, lower Main, Johnny’s Cafeteria. And she was a pastry cook there and so she went to split shift. I had my chores to do and if I didn’t do them, she woke me up and made me do them. So I knew I had my list in the morning what I’m supposed to do, and I had my list in the afternoon what I was supposed to do. And that’s how just the two of us did that.

	O:	Oh just the two. You were pretty independent then.



	T:	Well not really but see I was groomed from the time I was six or seven, I was gonna be the first one that went to college in the family. So I didn’t do anything really. Well a lot of time while the kids out doing chores I would be in there with my grandmother, she would be teaching me different things. And so I really lived the enchanted, I was really special to them. So all I had to do was make sure I got good grade from school.

	O:	Wow and did you get good grades at Booker?



	T:	Yes. I was a salutatorian when I graduated from Booker High.





	O:	Salutatorian from the Booker High Complex. All right we’ll talk more about that. Tell me some of your friends you grew up around there in Overtown. I know you said that they passed on since.

	T:	Yeah well you know I had some friends but I wasn’t allowed to hang on the corner where most of the kids did. I would go sometimes but for my momma, that was no-no for me because there wasn’t nothing to do happening up there.

	O:	You had a corner then in Overtown too?



	T:	Well they call it the corner but it was a café on the corner. There as a little joint where all the kids would hang out right there. So that was an area something like the corner right him. It wasn’t a corner maybe that bad the rough kids would hang out there and I wasn’t allowed to go up there of course. That wasn’t the type my mother want me to be with. And she was the type of mother, not only for me, but she came up there and they saw her coming, they got quiet because they know she would know all the parents and chastise them like she would me.

	O:	Did you ever had any relationships or dealings with Whites in Sarasota? T:	No.

	O:	Never?



	T:	Well there was one family, her mother was a seamstress and she lived I guess about Twelfth Street but she lived about six or seven blocks from where I was and they had this daughter and she always associated with Blacks even when they didn’t want her to. So she played with us but it wasn’t no problem in that family. But once she got grown, that was the end of that relationship.

	O:	Really? Why?





	T:	I don’t know but it just wasn’t the custom then. If she saw you downtown, she would stop and speak to you, don’t care where she was and who was there, but there was no relationship with her anymore.

	O:	Wow. Were you able to shop downtown in the businesses?



	T:	You could shop but there wasn’t no restrooms there for you and you couldn’t try on anything. You could buy and then you had to go to the restroom you had to come back up.

	O:	To home? You had to come all the way home? T:	Yes.

	O:	So that discouraged you from shopping I suppose.



	T:	Well you had some things you had to have but other than that you didn’t go there unless you had to go there.

	O:	So was Overtown self-sustaining with all the shops and businesses. They had everything you needed?

	T:	Well they had a couple of restaurants and one barber shop. There was a hotel there back by where we live and Bethlehem Church was over there at that time, right on Central. And what else they had? There was a Jewish guy had a department store maybe a couple blocks over that people did a lot of shopping at.

	O:	Blacks were allowed to go in there? T:	Yeah.

	O:	Could you use the restroom in there?



	T:	Well I don’t know I never shopped in there. So I don’t know. [Laughter]





	O:	Why because it was expensive? T:	No not expensive, I just never—

	O:	Never wanted to. Well where did you get most of your clothes?



	T:	My mother bought most of them. She would shop downtown a lot because she was downtown all the time.

	O:	Okay did you go to work with her? T:	No.

	O:	Never. Okay. Let’s talk about medical care and health care. Let’s talk about your family. Were you able to go get treated say for…you know today you have to have a physical, children have to go to the doctor to get a physical before they can get into school and you have ailments. Tell me about medical care for the Black community and you.

	T:	There was no medical care. Not only here I remember up in Zellwood, you had no doctor. I remember when I was out in the yard playing and I ran into a shovel and my big toe was almost cut off. And they took it and with cobwebs and all this stuff and wrapped it up and it healed and never saw a doctor.

	O:	Wow. So there were home remedies that your parents and your grandparents used.

	T:	Yeah. That’s what they had. And even here, like I said, there was no doctor that would treat Black people mostly so you learned to do your own treatments.

Bandages was a standard thing or tapes and cotton balls and all that kind. Turpentine was a—Not only that I remember playing football, the coach the only





he had possible was some tape and some turpentine. Everything was treated with turpentine. And so that was a big joke, get the turpentine. [Laughter]

	O:	Wow I know that there was a turpentine camp but gee, treating everything with turpentine?

	T:	Turpentine was the main thing. O:	That was the medicine.

	T:	Everything could be treated with turpentine, sprains whatever.



	O:	Wow but you did share a story about being at the hospital. There were separate waiting rooms.

	T:	Oh this was later, much later ‘cause I was already—I think I was in college back that time—

	O:	And came home.



	T:	I was back home and had— O:	Okay.

	T:	And the treatment then it was different. They had to just put you lay on your back and wait stretch the muscle because there wasn’t no way to treat it, get the heat through it. So for nine days I laid on my back with a weight to get the stretch and that was in a separate wing. It wasn’t attached to the hospital but a separate building for Blacks. That’s all they could go to.

	O:	Do you remember your doctor? T:	Oh no I don’t.

	O:	Okay and then you mentioned dentistry. You never went to a dentist so much. T:	No.





	O:	Tell me about that story you shared the time you did go to the dentist and shared the instrument.

	T:	Well the instruments they had, you had to go at night after they close the office. O:	How old were you?

	T:	I must have been nine, fifteen or sixteen or something like that. I went there and there was these utensils. This was disgusting; you know they wasn’t sanitary.

The silver tarnished and that kind of stuff. And so I didn’t go back to the dentist until I was twenty-five.

	O:	Wow do you remember what kind of care you needed?



	T:	Oh I don’t know. I know I needed just general care ‘cause I hadn’t had anything done so this dentist I knew, he came, he played baseball at one of the teams. I knew him and he just recently retired. But he took me in. That was the first dentist I had. It was at his office I found that I had high blood pressure because they were required to take your blood pressure. The guy he told me, said, “You have high blood pressure.” And that’s when I started getting treatment for that before that, no dentist at all.

	O:	I see, now let’s go back to the fact that you were the salutatorian of Booker High School. Yeah so you’ve been and erudite for many, many years, into the books and into your studies.

	T:	Well that wasn’t really hard because you had about thirteen or fourteen graduates. So it wasn’t a high bar. [Laughter]

	O:	I see, how did you find out about Morehouse? You graduated from Morehouse.



You went on to college and graduated from there.





	T:	Yeah but the dean came through recruiting and I got an academic scholarship to Morehouse and so that’s how I went to Morehouse first in the beginning. But I was only at Morehouse that time for the first semester. I didn’t finish the first semester because once I was drafted and was 1A, I knew it wouldn’t be long before I go in the service so I didn’t go back. After the first service, I didn’t go back and I went to service in March of 1943, I was in the army.

	O:	In the army. What did you learn? What did you do in the army?



	T:	Well I began over at Fort Sill in the radio department. Fort Sill is a field artillery camp. All the people and all the groups came and all that. But I was in the radio.

	O:	The media part? What city was Fort Sill?



	T:	No, no not the media. I mean like the tell attack you order. I learned your Morse Code. You have to learn how to send messages by Morse Code and I didn’t think I needed to be there because it took me about three weeks before I even learned the letter A. [Laughter] But eventually I could do about fifteen words-a-minute which was pretty good because my instructor was part of the group Thirty-five.

But in anyway we went to Fort Sill. That’s that down in Texas, Fort Clark, Texas. And that traumatic for me because it was a cavalry unit, horse, and I was afraid of horses for one thing. But fortunately I was put in the headquarters where it was mechanized. But we were there for about a year before we went overseas.

	O:	And where did you go overseas?



	T:	Went to North Africa first. We spotted Oran, North Africa. We were there for a year and I got to see all of North Africa, the north part. We were made into a trekking outfit when we got overseas. And so I got a chance to drive from Oran





all the way to Casablanca. It was probably a six-truck convoy. So I got to see Casablanca. I saw everything in between. And we stayed there and went to Italy and we staying in Italy a year and we stationed right outside Naples. And we traveled from Naples all north as far as Pisa, hauling supplies and whatever. So we’d make that trip about every two weeks, we would make that trip to north. We would go to Rome overnight, stay at Rome overnight when we were going north. So we did that until the war was over.

	O:	Was it ever dangerous? Did you fear for your life?



	T:	No we were nowhere near a combat zone. I think the closest we got combat, we went to Genoa once but they was about twenty-five miles north of us there. But no I had fun. I saw places I would never see. After the war was over, we spent time—because we was a touring outfit we wasn’t doing anything else. We carried troops on sightseeing tours and I got a chance to go to Pompeii and see the Pompeii and Mt. Vesuvius and all these things. And I never would have seen it otherwise. The colosseum in Rome and all this stuff. I never would have got to see it otherwise.

	O:	Right do you remember any other men from Sarasota or women in the military, in the army from Sarasota that were in the army too?

	T:	Well one of my classmates, he was in the Air Force in Naples there but we were about less than ten miles from each other but we never each other in a year.

	O:	Who was that?





	T:	Because I would be going on the trip north and he would come looking for me and I’d come back and he’d be somewhere gone. So we never saw each other. We were that close together.

	O:	Okay do you remember his name? T:	Joey Walker.

	O:	Okay so when you returned from the military, did you come back from Sarasota? T:	Yes.

	O:	Had it changed any? Overtown or Newtown?



	T:	By that time most of the people had moved to Newtown once the school moved.



See the school and the movies were over in Overtown. So when the schools moved to Newtown, there was no transportation for kids to go back and forth. We walked to school from Twelfth Street on over Overtown, up Orange Avenue to the school. You walk down and you walk back. If you played football you walked to school, practice and went back home. You walked. It wasn’t no bus for White because the White we would meet sometimes, they would be coming from Sarasota High coming down ‘cause they would live down around that area where Ringling School is. They were walking from school and we were coming the other way so it wasn’t no buses, everybody walking.

	O:	Everybody was walking. How far distance was that, about? Ten miles?



	T:	I don’t know. [Laughter] Well you know where Orange Avenue is and where the school is. Well do you know where at Power Building, Power got that unit out on Orange Avenue close to Tenth Street? Well we actually lived about a few blocks west of that over on Central.





	O:	I would say about ten.



T:  It was about ten miles but we walked everywhere. It wasn’t nothing to get out and walk, we walked the railroad track to Tallevast. So wherever we wanted to go you walked.

O:  You walked. I understand there were cabs and cabbies and taxis. T:   Yeah but that cost money. [Laughter]

	O:	So that raises a question. How did you make money in the early years, after you came back from the army?

	T:	Well at first I didn’t do any work at all because I was on the G.I. Bill and I went to college when I came back. I went back to college.

	O:	Did you go back to Morehouse?



	T:	Yeah. I went back to Morehouse but I wasn’t on scholarship, I was on G.I. Bill and I think the government was paying my bills then.

	O:	And then after graduating from Morehouse, did you come back to Sarasota? T:	Yes.

	O:	What was that like?



	T:	And by the time I had a young daughter and I came back and you had to work. So I did whatever kind of work was available because I didn’t start at the center and when I did start, it was part-time. It was supposed to be part-time but it never was part-time because you had to do a lot of running around to get to the community, making contacts with the school and all them things.

	O:	You mean this Robert L. Taylor Center that’s now named after you. T:	Yeah but it was a little, what these call direct.





	O:	A little barracks?



	T:	No it was built for the USO for the troops who were stationed in Sarasota. You see where the airport is now, it was an airbase and they had a lot of Black soldiers there for their entertainment so they would have a place to come for entertainment. So it was the USO building for them.

	O:	But tell me some more of those jobs that you had. So this working at the rec center with kids in the neighborhood, that was a part-time job. How can you say make a living?

	T:	Anything that came along you did it. O:	Like what?

	T:	Well I had friends who worked at this Allied Furniture thing and they knew in the morning I didn’t have anything to do. So if they had a job I can do in the morning, they would come get me and I would help them that way. Anything that would—

	O:	Did you mow lawns?



	T:	No I didn’t do much mowing lawns but I’d done construction roofing, work with roofers, I had a job working cleaning sewers. Anything that you could come along make money, you had to do it ‘cause you had to feed your family. But even before that, my senior year I only needed one course to graduate and they didn’t offer that until the second semester so I stayed home in the first semester and I worked. The Florida Power Light was building—I don’t know you probably don’t remember they had a unit right there where the boat ramp is now. It was the Florida Power Light built a unit there, station there. And I worked there for that semester. And of course you would go down this ladder because they had to





build the story underground. When you build a building not just up, you got to build the foundation. So that’s what I was doing. So I spent the whole semester there and I remember that job a lot because I laugh looking back how much they paid me. By the time they took out my social security and all that stuff, I had

$34.90 left for that week’s work. [Laughter] But that $34.95 is maybe ten times as much as it is now. You could go to the store with ten dollars buy a whole big bag of groceries. Well now ten dollars just will get you in the door.

	O:	Right. Exactly.



	T:	So it was by today’s standard, it was terrible. But by those standards there you could—

	O:	You could manage.



	T:	And so I worked there that summer and through that first semester and then I went back to Morehouse and finished and I graduate in 1950.

	O:	With a degree in what?



	T:	Well a degree in Business Administration and Economics which I never used. It was my desire when I first went to school to be a CPA. I don’t know why I chose that because I really wasn’t in to going to college when I graduated. I didn’t know what I wanted to do. And I always wanted to be either a plumber or an electrician. That’s what I wanted but my parents had decided already what I was gonna do. And so anyway there wasn’t nowhere to get a internship there anyway. Wasn’t nowhere for me to learn to do it, that’s how they go on someplace else. But then when I got my senior year and I ran into business math, I know right then a CPA wasn’t for me. [Laughter] That was the end of that.





And so I was considering going back to school when the city manager called me asked me would I try start the recreation program here.

	O:	Were you here when the community was pushing to integrate the beaches but the leaders were saying, “No, we’ll build you a community pool because there’s too many sting rays and jelly fish out there. You don’t really need to be at the beach”?

	T:	That’s why we got the pools and the other facilities. That was in 1960. That’s when the pool was built.

	O:	Tell me about that time and what you remember about this group trying to integrate the beaches.

	T:	Well see I tell people, kids now say, “I wouldn’t stand for this.” You would have stood for it because you had no other choice and what you see now is not racism. That’s just a token of what used to be. There really—and let me stop now, I don’t want to talk about this.

	O:	Yes, you should.



	T:	No because it’s only been recently that I could talk about some incidents and think about some incidents that I was in without crying. Where people did things to you just because they could.

	O:	To you personally Mr. Taylor? T:	Mmhm.

	O:	To you?



	T:	Well in some incidents, yes. O:	Like what?





	T:	I remember when I came from service and I went to go down and get my driver’s license. And this big room was there, people sitting around. And I was sitting on this bench and a White woman came and sat on the other end of the bench and the patrolman came out and told me, “You got to move ‘cause that White woman.” She said, “No I [Mr. Taylor] was here first.” He said, “You still got to move.” So I just got up and left. I didn’t get my license that day. In fact, I got my license in Manatee county because it was better. I didn’t go back there at all. So people don’t know how that hurts. And see now you can go anywhere you wanna and if you got the money you can go and there was no White fountains and Black fountains and all that stuff. It’s so much different now and people complain and they don’t know what racism is. They really don’t know.

O:  So Ms. Barber was telling me, she was in the first car that went to the beach to put their foot in the water to say we’re gonna be here. We have a right to be on these beaches. Do you remember that?

	T:	Well yeah I remember that but see before the Siesta Key was even developed, it was nothing but ocean, gulf, and it wasn’t no buildings, it wasn’t nothing. And that’s where we swam. We went picnicked and a swam at that area before they redeveloped it. That’s where we swam.

	O:	At Siesta Key.



T:  Yeah on Siesta Key out there. And there wasn’t no building. We took all those people out there and we swam.

	O:	Oh okay so nobody gave you any trouble with that.





	T:	Nobody was using it. It wasn’t considered that valuable at the time. Prior to that it wasn’t like it is now where everything developed. Wasn’t no development.

	O:	Well did anyone ever bother you once they found out that you were going down there to enjoy the beach and picnicking?

	T:	Not until they started developing. Once they developing you couldn’t go anymore because actually it was bought up by private companies. So it was private land. You couldn’t go there anymore. Well you know nobody was building anything, nobody cared. But that changed as soon as they started developing.

O:  Did you go to Lido too? T:  No I never went to Lido. O:  Okay.

	T:	Because the funny thing there wasn’t anywhere to go sit in the shade at Lido. [Laughter]

	O:	There wasn’t any shade. [Laughter] Hey tell me about these kids who were jumping into the swimming holes and drowning.

	T:	There was an area on Osprey where those concrete places, if you go across Osprey at Myrtle, there was a—I don’t know what, it used to be a pasture—you know how they have the water hole for cattle and what not. But it was still there and a lot of kids swam in that. And one boy drowned and I remember. Then there was when they were building the swimming pool, they had to dig all that out because it was contaminated. It used to be a dump. All this here was a dump. I mean from Osprey back down to 301. That was the city dump. And so when they get ready to build the pool, they had to dig all that contaminated mess out and





they got it from on the other side over there and that left this big hole and a boy drowned over in there because it filled with water and they were swimming anywhere they could swim. And the pool wasn’t built at the time. And even after the pool was built, we had a couple drown because they went in there after hours when they shouldn’t have been in there.

	O:	And did you start the swimming program here so that Black kids could learn to swim?

	T:	Yes.



	O:	Because it was important. Why was that important to you?



	T:	Well we had the pool and we didn’t have anybody qualified to even teach swimming or do anything and we couldn’t open the pool until you had qualified people. And so we tried to hired people to do it. Well the Red Cross said, “We will send three people to Nashville to learn to get certified in aquatic swim instructor.” And William Haggs, which was a good friend of mine, we grew up together, I got him to do with me. The two of us went to Nashville for a week and we got certified as swimming instructors. But then we come back, they couldn’t open the pool ‘cause the state said you had to have a certified swimming pool operator, which we didn’t have. So I became certified in Jacksonville. I was certified as a swimming pool operator. And so that had to be on post and without that, they couldn’t open the pool. So after we got those two in place, then we start opening the pools to start swimming.

	O:	I remember when I was a kid. Seeing the little children walk from the little Booker Elementary and they walked down, I guess it was Thirty-fifth, to the swimming





program. You’re very proud of this center. Talk to us about how it’s grown through the years, when you were here.

	T:	Well we had the little building, the USO building. We had two employees, me and the janitor. There was nothing outside at all, no facilities. And so the first thing we did. Well I want to talk about the superintendent we had at the time. He was a wonderful person. Because the thing was, the program is new and you and the program would go together and he was there for three years and then he died.

After he died, things went and changed because when he came he told me when it come to about building the pool he said, “You know anything about chemistry?” I said, “No.” He said, “Well you got to learn because they gonna building a pool, a swimming pool.” He said, “I don’t know nothing about it.” He said, “But I’m gonna take you somewhere where you can learn.” So we went to Tampa, wherever they had a pool and we learned.

	O:	What was his name?



	T:	His name was Ted Wilson. He passed. He went to Miami to a park convention.



He died, he had a heart attack and died out there.



	O:	Was he a White person? T:	He was White.

	O:	But a good guy.



	T:	Oh he was the kind of person when you walked into City Hall if he didn’t speak to you, you didn’t say anything to him until he start speaking. And so everybody, you know they were sort of afraid of him but you know he would come out, sit





and talk with me for hours about whatever we needed and he was really good to me. He was a good guy.

	O:	Okay so tell us more about how it grew. So you had to learn how to mix the chemicals to keep the pool sanitary.

	T:	Well you had to learn everything. As a swimming pool operator, they taught everything because there’s a lot of chlorine and everything to keep the water in balance. The pH had to be a certain—They had a guy who came from Brooksville in charge from swimming pools from Brooksville down to Fort Myers. But he came in at an unexpected time, the water had to be completely balanced. He would check. I remember he came to Sarasota once and somebody gave him a speeding ticket or a parking ticket or something and he went out to Lido and closed the pool up [Laughter], at the time they were supposed to have a meet.

And so they couldn’t have the swim meet. They had to go somewhere else before they called the county up. And so they was really afraid of him. So anytime I needed something, I knew he was coming, I got it. Because they were afraid not to give it to him. He told me, he said when he first met me, he said, “I know I got bad reputation down here.” He said, “But you do what I tell you to do.” He said, “I’m the only one in that whole state who can close that pool when I get ready.” He said, “But you do like I say do it.” So he came one morning and it wasn’t ready and he said, “How long will it take to get ready?” I said, “Maybe about forty minutes.” And we sat there and talked until it got ready and he accepted it. But he wasn’t so bad. So he was really understanding.





O:  Very good so then you got the pool. What other changes did you see in the building over the years? That pool was a big change.

T:   Well soon after the pool we built, that’s when they tore those first buildings down, in 19[69]. In [19]60 the pool was built, in 19[69] they built the next building before they had this one. So that was the first time we had a full staff to work when they got the new building.

O:   And how many?



	T:	Whatever required. I think we had maybe about—I know we had two outside janitors and one inside and then we had maybe we had about eight or ten assistants within different fields, arts and crafts and different stuff.

	O:	And the kids and programs. What kind of programs did you see that were so beneficial to the neighborhood kids?

	T:	Well this was the only game in town. So we had a captive audience really because there’s nowhere for them to go. Which proved good for discipline because kids don’t never want to be sent home when all their friends are down here. So they always behaved. You could always use that over them but once we got that new building, I was the only one maintaining the water in the pool and everything. But most of the time I was programming, especially in the summer we would have three different age groups and they have to have a separate program, separate staff for each age group. So I spent the whole time planning what the programming would be. So if a parent came and I know how he was, I knew what group he was with and I knew exactly where he was ‘cause it was all a set program. And so once the summer was over we go to the winter and all





during the winter I’m programming for the summer again. So it was continuing programming.

	O:	Very busy. Only game in town. Yes, I remember this is where the teens would hang out and have a lot of dances.

	T:	And all the schools would have their after-game dances here. O:	This was a hopping place. How did you keep it all together?

	T:	Well spending eighteen, twenty hours a day sometimes. [Laughter] If the pool went bad at night and I knew it had to be ready in the morning, I couldn’t go to bed until that pool was up where I knew it was ready for inspecting. So sometimes I have slept in my car at the pool waiting on the water to get back up so it can be caught up to be ready and all of that. So a lot of long hours and it’s not good for a family when you got to spend so much time away from the family.

	O:	Did you spend your own money too sometimes? T:	No I didn’t spend any money. It’s just time.

	O:	Oh okay.



	T:	It was rough sometimes.



	O:	When you look at this building now and you remember what it was when you first started, and you see your name on that plaque and all, what does that feel like? How do you feel?

T:  Well you can’t really describe the feeling. You know I was talking to one of the guys outside, he said, “What would have happened if we’d a had this when we were coming along?” I said, “Y’all probably would have tore it up”. [Laughter]

O:   Why’d you say that?





	T:	We had a rough program. We had a rough crew.



	O:	I see but yes you were describing the feeling of pride, I suppose, in seeing what it has become now.

	T:	You know it means a lot to me but I think it means even more to my family ‘cause they really pushed for it more than I did because they were the ones who really— I wouldn’t say suffered—but when you can’t be home with the family and they got to go without and they complain sometimes, “Well you spend more time with other people kids than you do with us.” Well that was my job and it’s not good for a family situation really. I wouldn’t advise anyone in full-time recreation to even get married. [Laughter]

	O:	Wow I see but you’re happily retired now. What kind of things do you do in your retirement?

	T:	Well I didn’t really retire. I think after I retired here, I said I was tired of kids but then I spent three years with Helen Payne Day Care. I had a group of about three and a half to five year olds for three years. Then when I rode to Bradenton, I was with the PAL Program, after-school program.

	O:	So you just can’t not work with kids? T:	Now I can. [Laughter]

	O:	Do you remember any of those kids names through the years?



	T:	I wish I could. You know, one little girl—I don’t know maybe I could check with her. You remember Fred Jackson? He had a little girl. She was the youngest thing in my class and she was always the feisty one. I think she would bully kids, not bully them but almost dare them to mess with her ‘cause she was supposed





to be—“I just dare you too—”. [Laughter] But she was about three and a half and that’s the only one I could remember. I can’t remember another name but—

	O:	She was unforgettable huh?



	T:	But I don’t know if Fred’s wife is still living and where she is. I would like to know where she is and what she’s doing.

	O:	[Laughter] I see. Well just one other questions, this Newtown community and all.



What is it going to take to change this community as we move into the next century? What you think needs to happen?

	T:	I think teaching kids gonna have to change. We are bringing up kids to be victims because it’s everybody’s fault that you are like you are. But we not doing anything on the other end of the spectrum to make these people be responsible for themselves. And if you don’t respect yourself, how can you expect others to respect you? Our leaders are making people victims. You don’t have to be a victim. You can get out of that rut if you want to but you got to want to do it. And you got to have the family to encourage you to do it. So you never hear our leaders talk about the conduct of other Black youth. So everything happens, it’s somebody else’s fault. Nobody make you stop drop out of school in the eighth grade. Nobody make you wear your pants down around your behind. And nobody make you do these things you know will be harmful. But you have no parents now that’s willing to make them do it. Right now the kids are in charge of the family. They say, “I’m gonna do this.” If I got ready to go somewhere, I didn’t tell my mother I’m going here, “May I go there?” You didn’t have permission, you didn’t go. But now kids roam the street. I wasn’t allowed to roam the street, I





didn’t allow mine to roam the streets. ‘Cause my oldest son, my daughter told me, “He just want to get up on that corner so bad.” [I said,] “Tell him if he do, I’m gonna beat his behind all the way back home.” Because there’s nothing on the corner and why would you let your kids hang up on the corner? Ain’t nothing but trouble, ain’t nothing to do but trouble. So that’s the problem. It’s gonna have to change where we as Blacks gonna have to let these kids know, you don’t have to be a victim. Suppose Martin Luther King would have been a victim. Where would we be?

	O:	Did you meet him at all in Atlanta?



	T:	Yeah, he was in the school same time I was. He stayed at Morehouse because was in the Divinity Program. In fact, I had the opportunity but I knew I wasn’t gonna be no preacher so there wasn’t no use me starting that. But he was in the divinity program, I went in the service, he stayed there. But when I came back, he moved on to Boston. I think it was Boston or Harvard somewhere where he finished Divinity. But I never was at the school time he was. I never got to meet him.

	O:	Well thank you so much Mr. Taylor. This was such a delightful conversation. [End of Interview]





	Final edit by:	Sandra Romero, November 5, 2020