AAHP 084; Williams-Shaw; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 084 Jeraldine Williams-Shaw African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on February 7, 2009 8 minutes | 5 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Jeraldine Williams-Shaw recounts his time attending Middletown High School in Tampa, Fl. Owing his success to his community of friends and family, Mr. Williams became a strong leader in his journalistic career. He talks of his trip to South Africa as part of a non-governmental organization to observe for the election of Nelson Mandela and how it allowed him to capture history by writing for Ebony, South Africa. Mr. Williams states his wish for more cohesiveness in the university for its future students as he remembers his college career during the 1960s.





Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida]



















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 084

Interviewee: Jeraldine Williams-Shaw Interviewer: Marna Weston

Date: February 7, 2009



	W:	We’ll talk to Jeraldine Williams-Shaw, 1967 graduate of the University of Florida of the College of Journalism.

	WS:	And Communications.



	W:	Journalism and Communications. WS:	Yes.

	W:	Pardon me, thank you very much. And welcome to Celebrating the Firsts Weekend Gala.

	WS:	I’m excited.



	W:	What are your perspectives of being back here at the University of Florida for an evening like this where the firsts are being celebrated?

	WS:	It’s hard to really encapsulize in the short period of time that we must have. What it means, it means an awful lot in that when I came, what I think it must have been forty-six years ago, I certainly didn’t look forward to this point. But now I’m fast forwarding, and I’m looking back, and retrospectively, I must say that the groundwork that was laid is meaningful. And I’m glad that I could be a part of that.

W:  That foundation prepared you for everything that happened after you left here, your successes, your family, your life. Looking back on that foundation, do you believe that the University of Florida served you well, and prepared you well for life?

WS:  Let me say, that it was part of the foundation. I came from a community where we were in an all-Black school, that all-Black school prepared me to come to the





University of Florida. That was Middletown High School in Tampa. And I give all of the applause to those teachers and that community of people that prepared me to be able to come here and enter, and then survive. Many came, but all didn’t leave. Then also, my community of family and my community of church, all of those were part of what has made me. And so then when I came here, it was like putting the icing on the cake that prepared me for a whole new arena, for which I had no concept. And actually, the world didn’t have a concept back then because we didn’t know what things were going to be like, and how they were going to evolve. So a combination of those elements have gone forth to prepare me to give service throughout the world. And I carry that wherever I go especially in my journalistic experiences and my preparation.

	W:	Do you feel that services made you a stronger leader?



	WS:	It has not only made me a stronger leader, it has made the people whom I have served better people. Let me just give you an example; I went to South Africa as a part of a non-governmental organization to observe for the election of Nelson Mandela. I went back that year to live, and I stayed there for five years. And, I am a practicing attorney, I did not practice law while I was there, but I did write. And so I actually helped to capture that history, I wrote for Ebony, South Africa, and now that I look back at it, I realize what was happening, but when I was doing it, it was just part of a consultancy that I put together, but see, that was journalism that was carrying me through. And one of the things I know is, and that’s why I made sure you add communications, is that many people don’t know how to communicate effectively, and that’s what I was taught to do here.





	W:	What are your wishes for the students of the University of Florida toward the next fifty years?

	WS:	My wishes for the students here at the University of Florida for the next fifty years would be that there would be a cohesiveness that we did not find. Our society wasn’t ready to present that. I think that what has happened politically, and a lot that has happened socially will contribute to that cohesiveness that I wish for them. I did find support here at the University and I must say that I called him my major professor in print journalism, he was Hugh Cunningham, was outstanding. And I needed that because when I was here, there were fourteen African American students, and there were fourteen thousand students. So you see, we had no professors, we had no clerical persons, no one on football or basketball, we were it. So we needed to be embraced, and we were embraced by somebody who didn’t look like us. And for me, it was Hugh Cunningham. So I wish that kind of cohesiveness would be spread throughout the Gator Nation. And I feel it, and I’m here to do what I can to help it. Each year I return for the Association of Black Alumni Affairs. That weekend, we have a weekend of football, and I am a lifetime member of the Gator Alumni Association. And wherever I can go and whatever I can do to represent, I certainly continue to try and do that.

	W:	Well thank you. You mentioned the Gator Nation so that gives us a great opportunity to talk about this year’s theme. When did you first know you were a gator?

	WS:	You know I had to fight through that because I was coming from a segregated society and I really felt that. And I was coming in to help make a difference and





change the complexion of society. And I think maybe midway though that maybe, I started out in [19]63, maybe in [19]64 or [19]65 I started feeling like I was a part of, and when I won the William Randolph Hearst National Writing Award, I won second place overall Nationally, and I garnered more points than had been accredited to any student at the University of Florida. And my College of Journalism and Communications was so proud of that I felt like, “Okay, I’m there.” And I continue to feel that way.

W:  Jeraldine Williams-Shaw, Florida Gator, honorary of Celebrate the Firsts, and 1967 Graduate of the College of Journalism and Communications: thank you very much for this interview.

	WS:	Okay!



	W:	Is there anything we did not touch on that you would like to put in a sentence or two, just to make sure your thoughts are encapsulated in that really succinct way?

	WS:	Yes. I would like to say that there is a poem that I think is very appropriate for this evening. And I think I can recall it and it’s something like, “Isn’t it strange that princes and kings and clowns who caper in sawdust rings, and simple people like you and me are builders of eternity? And each are given a bag of tools, a faceless mask and a book of rules. And for all to which life is thrown, it becomes a stumbling block, or a stepping stone.” For me here at the University, the experiences during that time and after that time have all served to be stepping stones, they have not been stumbling blocks. I went on to earn a master’s degree in Business Administration and then a law degree. And I’m practicing law now





and I’m enjoying it. And when I meet others who are part of the Gator Nation, I reflect on the fact that I made a contribution. And I am just so pleased that others preserved it as that way. And so that’s why I’m here tonight. And I’m thinking, “Oh! We couldn’t imagine in 1963!”

	W:	Well, thank you for honoring us tonight. WS:	Thank you!

	W:	Thank you so much! WS:	All right!

[End of interview]





	Audit-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, August 22, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 18, 2019