AAHP 722; Jackson; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 722 Demetric Jackson 8-5-2019 Interviewed by Rykia Jackson on August 5, 2019 15 Pages

Abstract:

Keywords: [African American History; Gainesville, Florida]



AAHP 722

Interviewee: Demetric Jackson Interviewer: Rykia Jackson Date: August 5, 2019



	RJ:	This is Rykia Jackson with the Samuel Procter Oral History program. It’s August 5th, 2019 and I’m sitting here Demetric Jackson in Fort White, Florida at his home at 11:02. Thank you for joining me today.

	DJ:	Thanks for coming back.



	RJ:	Ok, so we’re just gonna start with little background information. If that’s okay with you. So when and where were you born?

	DJ:	I was born May 25th, 1974, at University of Florida Shands Hospital in Gainesville.

	RJ:	Was it common for people in your area to be born at a hospital or at home?



	DJ:	It was kind of beginning of the transition to children in my neighborhood to actually start be born in the hospital. There are many before me that maybe couple of years older than me that were born in homes. Especially my parents, my uncles, and aunts, some of them were born in home. But my age group, my generation was the start of a lot of kids being born in the hospital.

	RJ:	So you mentioned your parents, so what are their names and your grandparents names, if you don’t mind?

	DJ:	My dad name is Earl Jackson, his parents, he was raised by his mother. Mildred Jackson, his dad died when he was only six months old. His dad name was Jack Kemp, his dad died of an accident. My name is Gloria Jackson, married to my dad in 1981. Her mother name was Elouise Jackson, and her father name was Lawrence Grier.

	RJ:	And so growing up-where did you grow up again?





	DJ:	I grew up in Fort White, small town. Grew up in same town that I reside in now. RJ:	What kind of jobs were available for Black people here, in Fort White?

	DJ:	When I was growing up, not many jobs in the local town. My own mom, she started out as a stream stress, working various jobs, as a cook, few nursing homes. Later on when I got into middle school, she went back to school and got her nursing degree, and she became a nurse at one of the nursing home she actually was a cook and cleaner at. My dad, he ended up-he started out at cleaning at this store-old store in Gainesville by the name of Pick and Save. He eventually moved to a factory job called Bear Arching Wood that make bow and arrows. So he’s been there almost forty years now.

	RJ:	In Fort White, you mentioned that there weren’t many jobs, but were there any – do you know if there were any Black owned businesses here in the area at the time.

	DJ:	No, when I grew up there were no Black owned business here in Fort White. Mostly, we had labors working in the field, a lot of field work or called share croppers. You had people that were living, cleaning houses, working in tobacco, watermelon hay. Few of the small local restaurants as cooks, we had a couple restaurants in local town where people would work at.

	RJ:	Do you remember of any Black farmers or land owners there in that time?



	DJ:	There’s actually [inaudible 4:08] family, they were called the Watsons. They lived half way between Fort White and Columbia city, which is –look small, small residential town, north of Fort White on highway 47. But as a group of brothers, their dad- they each had over one hundred acres. They grew tobacco,





watermelon, pines, pine trees, corn, you name it, they grew it. I think it was, there were older guys even when I was young, but I recall five brothers. They were all- their last name was Watsons, and they owned their property, and for many years they would work their own property, and I think maybe the early [19]90s to early 2000s when the government kind of took over and bought a lot of the tobacco farmers-from some of the farmers and I know they sold some of their tobacco farms to the government. They continued to do watermelon, plant a lot of peanuts, even soy beans, as recently as last couple of years, and corn on their farms.

	RJ:	So did you say that this was in Fort White or in between?



	DJ:	Their children went to school in Fort White. Fort White is an incorporated town, it’s a small town, but it is incorporated. Where as in Columbia City, it’s not an incorporated. It’s just a area that they’ve giving that name of Columbia City. It’s the smallest little part of Columbia County. Doesn’t have a post office, doesn’t have a town ship or any of that. It’s just the area. So they’re considered the Columbia city area, but many of their family is really tied to Fort White. It’s not considered Fort White because it’s outside of the city limits. So it’s within the County of Columbia County, but it’s not technically Fort White but Fort White is the closest town they’re a part of.

	RJ:	Going back to your family, you mentioned your parents, did they have any other children? [Inaudible 6:44] any siblings?

	DJ:	Yes I’m the oldest of three children. My mom and dad- I was born when they were still in high school. My dad was a senior in high school, my mom was a





junior in high school. And so I have a younger brother, has seven years younger than me, and I have a sister that’s ten years younger. But my parents also raised seven other children, within, you know, the last twenty to thirty years. So it’s not just the three children that she birthed, but my parents also raised seven other children within the household.

	RJ:	And did you see that a lot growing up- like other families taking care of other people that not necessarily were their children, or just other family members that they were taking care of?

	DJ:	Yeah you see that a lot, particularly in this area. If there’s a family that kinda, for whatever reason the parents weren’t together, they couldn’t take care of them because of financial situations, or whatever the case may be. One of the grandparents would generally take over, and raise the children, and our case, my grandmother, she was raising two of my cousins. And when she got old and sick, she couldn’t take on- she couldn’t take of them anymore. So my mom and dad brought them into our home, and she raised them. There I had some other relatives that you see, not just in my family but in this community, that if something happens, some type of tragedy where the family got sick, unable to take care of them because of financial situation, or some other unforeseen things; like drugs, when some family members get on drugs. Instead of DCF, or Partner and Family Children Services, take them or the state take them. A lot of times, family members in our community, would take on that responsibility and raise those children.

	RJ:	So you would consider your family, very close knit?





	DJ:	Definitely, definitely, very close nit, we look out for each other.



	RJ:	I’m curious to know how, growing up with tour siblings, and other cousins and family members in your house. How were like, the chores and the responsibilities dived up in the household?

	DJ:	Well in my household it was not really, you know you just do one thing or you know my mom and dad was kinda of pretty strict on- you had to do, be able to do

, insider chores, as well as outside chores. I said I had a younger brother, younger sister, but there was three other cousins. So for a large part of my high school years, there was three boys and three girls; and so it was kinda split up, you know. We can divide up, the yard work, the three boys did and the three girls were kinda divided up what they were going to do in the house. But before they moved in, you know- there were times I had to wash the dishes and the next day I had to go outside and do yard work. So it was shared responsibility.

	RJ:	For things like shopping and offs, was it easy to access food or where did you get your food and other supplies.

	DJ:	Well we were not the well to do family. Growing up, my grandparent parents, were own subsidies, and so they would get commodity. But then my parents, as long as I remember, have always worked. So they would, you know, they would go to grocery store and buy food, like traditionally normal families do. But they were also times that we, because you’re in a small community, you have so many farmers. You’ll find a particular farmer that may have peas, and if you would go out as a family and what we call “pick peas”, you can divided them up. So one family may pick peas, and you share those peas with other family. The





other may pick corn, and so a lot of our vegetables was picked up that way. My dad was an avid fish man so it kind of, routine, that we would eat fish and grits on every Friday. Those were the things we were just accustomed to. My mom wasn’t a big eater of what we consider wild life, but most of my family was. My mom know how to cook it all, but she just – that’s not something that she like to eat. But we would eat deer, rabbit, raccoon, different types of wild life. Not because we had to, but we enjoyed, we liked it, so that’s what we did. But we’ll eat the traditional chicken, steam whenever we could, pork chops, all those things. But some of the food was shared, particular the vegetables from tomato, corn, okra, collard greens, mustard greens, all those things.

	RJ:	I kinda want to shift to your experience with segregation. Did you have any experience with segregation as a child?

	DJ:	No, that was before my time, my parents time [inaudible 12:45]. One of the big issue, you know I grew up in the late [19]70s, early [19]80s, when I was in middle and high school. So that wasn’t, [inaudible 12:54] big deal.

	RJ:	So you would say you often interacted with Whites, and what were those interactions like if you did?

	DJ:	Well you know, growing up in Fort White, we only had an elementary school, and you know, most of my teacher who were White. This predominately White neighborhood that we lived in, you know but we interact with the Black and Whites interacted on a daily basis. I was a guy that played sports, so sports is kind one of those areas where it really doesn’t see color. So I had the opportunity to intertwine with all different types of races, by playing in sports.





	RJ:	What- where did most of the kids play in like your neighborhood, is there like a certain location or what sorts of games did you guys play?

	DJ:	Well we-most in my neighborhood we played pick-up basketball, pick up football, we used to play game, called fumble. You hit the ball, and just kind of-got to pick it up on the bounce, dodge ball, all those things we played in our local neighborhood. Now we got in high school or actually in middle school, we start playing organize sports. I remember when I was in fourth or fifth grade, is tart playing baseball and so that was organized, so we would play that at the communi8ty center or the rec fields. Then when I got into seventh grade, we started playing organize football and basketball, on the school team sports, so you know that’s kind of what we did.

	RJ:	I wanna kind of shift to education, where there any – or what opportunities for education existed like in Fort White? Middle school, elementary, high school, [inaudible 14:57]

	DJ:	-In Fort White we didn’t have a high school, so most of the kids at our school wows Fort White public. So it went from kindergarten through eighth grade, and once you got in eighth grade, once you graduate form eighth grade, you either had to go to Lake City Middle School, which is Lake City Junior High which was actually seventh, eighth and ninth.so when we finished eighth grade in Fort White, we went to ninth grade junior high school in Lake City, or some students went across the county line to Santa Fe High School, which is about the same distance between Fort White and Columbia. You have um… it’s about twenty- three miles to both schools, just like Lake City Middle School or Columbia High





School was in the same county as in Santa Fe was outside, it was in Alachua County. But it’s about twenty miles to either school, I ended up going to Lake City Middle School or Lake City Junior High as a ninth grader, went there for a year and then I went on to Columbia High school, for my tenth, eleventh and twelfth grade year.

	RJ:	How did you get to Columbia?



	DJ:	Well my first year, ninth grade, I rode the bus, we travelled by bus, and traveled home by bus, and then in tenth grade, my parents got me a car, and so I drove to school, tenth, eleventh and twelfth grade year.

	RJ:	I’m going to shift to kinda the churches, where there any churches in your community and did you go to one of them?

	DJ:	Yeah, as I mentioned before our family were really close. We were a big family, our close nit family, but we was also a family of faith, and our entire family, all of us, we all went to church. They had a rule that – when that Sunday school bell ring , you better have your bible verse, and better be in there and say it, if you don’t say it in Sunday school, you were late.so we kind of had a deal, it went off from my dad , down to all his children. We were in church every Sunday morning, and pretty much all day.

	RJ:	Did your church have like a lot of activities for youth or any of the members there at the time?

	DJ:	Our youth department, which was my mom- my mom was the youth director for all of my years growing up, until I got grown, she finally stepped down and let somebody else do it. Our youth department was very active, there was activities





from vacation bible school to bible study every Wednesday night. To youth and action programs, to district and state congress, that we would travel across the state. We would also have, our traditional Sunday school and bible study on Wednesdays. In Sunday mornings we used have what we called, NBC afternoon service for our youth. We learned plays, we used to play in the Christmas plays each time of the year. We were very active, and we did that every year for [chuckles]…twenty years.

	RJ:	After high school, were there a lot of opportunities for people in your area in Fort White to attend college?

	DJ:	Its always been a opportunity. You had Santa Fe Community College, twenty to thirty min from Fort White, and you had Lake City Community College, then you had the University of Florida. For me, I was fortunate enough to receive a scholar ship to play football at the University of Florida, and so I moved on and played college ball. My mom attend Santa Fe Community College, and got her nursing degree. My dad didn’t go to college, he just choose to go to work. But there were opportunities for people to go off to college. My sister, she followed in footsteps and went to University of Florida. My brother, he decided to go a different route, he went down to Orlando for community college for a couple of years, and then he just decided he wanted to become an insurance agent, and so he did that.

There was opportunities for whatever you wanted to do.



	RJ:	You mentioned you attended University of Florida and was also- you played football there. What was your experience like being a student athlete?





	DJ:	It was tremendous, had a great time, great experience for me. Came into University of Florida at the right time, I would say for the athlete department, particular football team. We-my first year there [inaudible 20:13] we played for the SCC title but we dint win. But then my four years that I actually got a chance to play, which was my freshman year in [19]93, we won the SCC Title all for years. So [19]93, [19]94, [19]95, and [19]96, and then [19]96 our last year, we won the SCC Title and Florida’s first National Title in football. So we were –great time for me and graduated my academic-my alethic eligibility, my junior year, so I had another year athletic ability.

RJ:  So you talked about your great times that you experienced in college, did you ever experience any hardships as a student athlete, like whether its racism or any other milestones?

	DJ:	Just wanna say no racism or hardships, while I attended university. I wouldn’t say directly toward me. There were times that I was a little upset , particularly early on when I wasn’t playing, I was a pretty good athlete I high school. And I’ve been used to playing and starting, and first year I get to Florida, redshirts, so I’m not paying. I just attended school, and then my redshirt freshman year was just my second year at Florida, you know I played a little bit, and still wasn’t starting. So it was getting frustrated doing that time of the year, but you know I stayed focused. Continued to work on my academic part of school and check my grades up and eventually the end of my sophomore season, I started starting and junior year I started quite bit of games so it really started going well for me and I really enjoyed it.





	RJ:	After college, you’ve been a former mayor of Fort White and I just wanted to know like how you got involved with being the mayor of Fort White?

	DJ:	Well that kind of goes back to when I was in high school, first I was introduced to how the government works back in seventh and eighth grade. I had a teacher by the name Lanore Stedman, taught almost forty to forty-eight years, she was our civics teacher in middle school and she was really into, you know, city government, local government, and really kinda pushed that. But I also had a grandmother that was very instrumental in me following into local politics-

	RJ:	What was her name?



	DJ:	Mildred Jackson, my dad’s mother. When I was in middle school and high school, she would make me take her to the local town hall meetings, and so I would be the only kid sitting up in these town hall meetings with all these old people talking about, you know. It was funny, “imagine like man why am I here?” But it really struck an interest with me, and I was still into sports, so I really didn’t have that much time. Well when I finished playing college football, I moved back home to Fort White, and 1999. And then in 2000, I joined the city council and I kind of like I joined as a council member, and did that for a number of years. The mayor at the time name was Truet George, Truet was also my rec lead baseball coach. Truet made me the system mayor, I was the youngest guy in the council, but he’s like, “Well I like your enthusiasm, I like what you stand for so we’re going name you system mayor.” [Inaudible 24:22] the system mayor, and then three years later he had a brain aneurysm, he had just won the election but when he had a brain aneurysm he couldn’t serve. So I would serve as the mayor for the





next two years, and then he eventually passed. And after those two years that I served as the vice mayor in his absence, the election came up and I ran or office, and no one ran against me for the first two terms. So I actually was considered the mayor of the town Fort White, for ten years.

	RJ:	So how is your experienced with mayor?



	DJ:	It was challenging, at the time, I was thirty-three to thirty-four years old, or maybe thirty-two when I became the mayor, and the next closest guy in age on the council was in his late [19]50s, early [19]60s. So there’s a huge age gap, here I’m the mayor and the next youngest guy is old enough to be my dad on the council. A lot of growing pains I had to learn to understand how things work with city government. Eye opening, there were times that I would –one of the guys who actually lost one of the council seats, he came to the next meeting when he was upset that the former mayor announced me as the mayor pro tem/assistant mayor. He was upset about it and so he would come to the next meeting, just tryna throw me off or make little judgement calls like you know, “why we got a Black guy here running this town.” That was one of some of the first things that I notice as a mayor. By experience I was working with the guy side by side, but then when I became the mayor, he didn’t think I should be qualified and he tried to give me a hard time, but he eventually realized I know what I was doing, and I had the best interest of the town. So he would come back and he apologized, for his actions.

	RJ:	Was there - being the mayor, was there anything that you’d go back and look on and reflect on, and anything you would change?





	DJ:	I also did some things that I could’ve done better. Again, it was a learning curve. There were opportunities that I think for us to maybe bring in some more money that we kind of let slip under my regime because we just didn’t know how to go get certain resources. Other things I think I could’ve reached out to the community a little more, to try to get them involved. As far as members in our community, they just didn’t understand what it take to run a city government and I was always fighting for our town, is a small town, lot of low income families. So I was trying to make sure that we take care of those families that couldn’t afford wanted quality service, wanna make sure we had quality water. Want to make sure we ha quality garbage and utilities. But also didn’t put the talent in the red, so I had to manage that and I wish we gotten more people into the town hall meetings, to understand what all is take to do that. It could’ve made the city a better town.

	RJ:	With the town meetings, how many people roughly would you say would attend the meetings?

	DJ:	Only average with the 4 count members and the mayor, you would also have the town clerk, the tow attorney, the town engineer, and also town manager, they would all attend the meeting. Besides those individuals you would probably have on the average about five or six people, other people would attend the meeting. There are some meetings when were talking about bringing [inaudible 29:07] there was an incense where they thought the town was bringing in all these ticket plants, or the town was borrowing water from some of our local rivers. People





upset, so they would come in and [inaudible 29:23] tried to come in the room and attend those meetings. One of general meeting we would have five or six people.

	RJ:	One last question I want to leave you with, as the first Black mayor of Fort White, do you think that you kind of opened the door for other people of color in Fort White to grow and prosper and just give that sense of encouragement for other people?

	DJ:	I think I did. I think I paved the way, one thing that I always tried to, in whatever I do is be that –be a bridge builder. Be that go between, something that hadn’t happen before, or something that easily happened, and tried to make it better. So I think I paved the way for some young men, Black men, minorities.to realize “Hey, Demetric Jackson can do it, I can do it.” I wasn’t considered no big shot, just kinda I worked my way, I didn’t just in one day become a mayor. Like I said, I joined the council in the end of 1999, early 2000. So for ten years or so I kind of groomed myself, or I was groomed to take over and actually be the mayor. I kind of wanted to show people how to do it, I think I’ve done a good job, I think broke some barriers, and allowed some other people to realize that hey I can do it to.

You can kind of see that some of the others that are stepping up and taking on some leadership roles within our community.

	RJ:	Well, is there anything else that you would like to add? DJ:	No just [pause]… no

	RJ:	Well thank you so much for your time and for allowing me to interview you. I really appreciate it, you didn’t have to do it, but I’m glad you did. Thank you so much.





[End of interview]



Transcribed by: Jerlda Fleurima October 22, 2019 Audit-Edited by: Sandra Romero, February 23, 2021 Final-Edited by: Sandra Romero, March 4, 2021