AAHP 544; Anderson; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 544 Walter Anderson

Interviewed by Ryan Thompson on November 16, 2016 1 hour 16 minutes | 29 pages



Abstract: In this interview Walter Anderson discusses his life growing up in Alachua, Florida. When he graduated high school, he went to go play basketball for a Hampton Junior College in Ocala Florida. After Hampton Junior College dissolved and became Central Florida College, Anderson went to play basketball for North Carolina A&T State. It was at this time that he was drafted into the United States Army for the Vietnam War. He started out as a Guidon Bearer and eventually went to paratrooper school. After leaving the military, Anderson went back to playing Basketball in college. Due to his PTSD from the war Anderson left college and went back to Alachua, Florida. He also describes his experiences as a veteran in the United States and living with PTSD. He eventually became a counselor within Alachua, County.



Keywords: [African American History; Hampton Junior College; Ocala, Florida; Alachua, Florida; United States Army; Vietnam War; An Khe, Vietnam; PTSD;]



AAHP 544

Interviewee: Walter Anderson Interviewer: Ryan Thompson

Date of Interview: November 16, 2017



T:  My name is Ryan Thompson. I’m with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. Today’s date is November 16, 2017. I am in Alachua, Florida at the home of Mr. Walter Anderson. Mr. Anderson, if I could just ask you to introduce yourself? Say your name and spell your name.

	A:	Yes, I’m Walter Anderson. W-A-L-T-E-R S-O-N. Anderson. A-N-D-E-R-S-O-N. But anyways, I’m a junior named after my father. Born in 1947. Went through seventeen years living in Alachua, and some interesting stories I have to tell today. I’m being interviewed, I guess, for my story. So I’ll start right in. Of course, I’ve said I was born in [19]47. The first memories of life that I remember was wanting Christmas gift from my Dad. And finally, I guess my grandmother bought this horse. And it was a push down horse. You know- probably have to describe it to you- but anyway, you stand up on it and you push it down, and so forth and so on. I guess she was so paranoid of me getting hurt until by the time I got ready to ride the thing I was standing over it. By the way, I’m six foot eight.

Approximately two hundred pounds, one hundred and ninety-eight pounds, somewhere in there soaking wet. All my life I grew up kind of skinny. Little brown- eyed boy with alotta dreams. One of them was having a nice home and family and wife and all of that good stuff. I grew up in an era of cowboys and Indians.

Didn’t have a TV for a long time so we kinda mimic that; that’s kinda all we knew. Like everybody else, we had stick horses and that kind of thing. But my grandfather was a man. His name was Byrd Salit. That was my mother’s father. And consequently, they called me Bobby Salit, unbeknowing that wasn’t really







my name for I was separated from my father, so I didn’t use his surname a lot growing up. But that was just tradition. Normally, that’s how things went and I guess that’s at the center of family separation due to certain other sociological mishaps. So as I grew, I just became longer and longer and longer. Never could get any clothes that fit me. That wasn’t an important thing at that time. What was important thing was getting you an education for that’s the one thing that my grandfather pushed. He was a third grade person. I grew up in a house that was located on about fifteen acres. He farmed and walked behind a mule all of his life that I know of. So, I didn’t have that type of lifestyle that produced a car, nothing like that. Only thing I knew is he drove a two mule wagon all his life. He had nice horses and stuff like that. He did a little gardening work for people around Alachua and stuff like that. We were very close knit community anyways.

Everybody knew everybody. As I grew up, I remember this one time, besides that horse, one Christmas I got a Western Flower [pistol]. And I would always get cap pistols. The cap pistols probably didn’t last for but half a day. [Laughs]. I would try to take them a part and couldn’t figure out how to put them back together. I never could figure why that was until I got out of college start to work around with stuff. I guess that was because I didn’t see things the same way everybody did anyways. But anyway, I have pictures of those things and as I grew, got older, I got involved in the band. Head, shoulder, and everybody else. Couldn’t deal with that. Always felt kinda strange. Looking forward to something but then didn’t know what. All my dreams said, “You want to be a cowboy cause he’s free.” And then when I grew up, ninth grade or something, we got a television or something







and never seen a black cowboy on TV at all. Didn’t know I was growing up around them. Guy by the name of Pratt Perry, George and Butch Fraiser, these are cracker cowboys. They use whips and horses and they work for this big rancher. And my grandmother would never let me go out there because she was afraid I was gonna get on one of the horses and get hurt. Well anyways, my granddaddy had a ‘ole plow horse and two mules. And every year he would plow the field up, and we’d harvest the corn, and I’d have to put it in the barn. Had to feed the mules and horses. So, I guess I don’t know what made me start thinking I could ride. So little plow horse, we got along just fine. He’d let me ride him, and I’d give him exercise every other day. So I thought that I was a cowboy. The first sign that I had of I don’t know, feeling funny about things: my grandmother and my aunt. My grandmother, she died in the church of [19]84. I think she was born in 1910. Think her sister was born around 1900s. Now I don’t know why they had such a feud going on, but my aunt had a big acreage in Alachua. She had about 50 acres or something, and she was part of the Demps family that comes out of Perry, Florida. They’re a pretty upstanding family. But anyways, they never did get along like that. They feuded and fought a lot. So I guess I never did know why, I was never passed on a lot of history, secrets or anything like that. But the one constant thing that remained was get an education. So while in high school, something I remember very vividly, and that was a picture of a little Black guy hanging from the tree. I think I was in tenth grade, and that was in the history book. I didn’t understand the significance of that at that time. Kind of solemn, but this problem’s in 1963. And we’re looking at stuff like that in history books. Black







kids are being taught this. [19]63 now. [19]65 I graduate high school, and I get a chance to go to college. A couple of offers: Tuskegee, Hampton. Schools in Florida didn’t ask me to play. At that time, I was probably six-six, one hundred and seventy to eighty pounds, but I could jump high, I could listen, and I could play pretty good according to the people of Alachua. I was bad. [Laughs]. But anyway, I went away to Ocala, Florida. And we use to play them in high school, and they had a junior college there. I started there. Me and one of the guys off of the team, we call him “Trash” but his was Nathaniel Jenkins, and he's a Vietnam vet also. And to think about that, most of the class of [19]65, [19]63, and probably down to [19]70, around here—maybe 19[73]—of Vietnam vets. A whole ten year span of young men with bright minds and a lot of energy went to Vietnam.

Somehow, some way. Myself, didn’t have any aspirations of being a political figure because being poor, you always figured that you had to have a bunch of money to be a politician or a city official or something like that. You needed a bunch of education for that. Never knew that politically that was an appointed position. Never knew that. I strive to be involved in that. I was never really pushed politically. So I went on off to college, and that next year, that was [19]65- [19]66 school year. By [19]66, they had dissolved the Hampton Junior College, and they had turned it into Central Florida. It was predominantly gonna be White administration. They didn’t offer any scholarships. The war had just started, and we didn’t even watch it on television. We weren’t concerned with that because by [19]63- [19]62, we had some other issues going on. They were concerning boarding, and they were concerning transportation rights to work and all these







other issues. [19]63 we had a president assassinated, probably the hope of the people. And by the way, 1863, we received the Emancipation Proclamation. I never got to that, didn’t even know about it. I just thought it was something you had to learn. “Oh you were emancipated.” “Oh what does that mean?” No idea mean. They didn’t teach us that in history. Nothing, none of that. So by [19]66, I get a scholarship to North Carolina A&T State University. By the way, in 1963, this is one of the schools we had talked about, sitting in the school demonstrations at Woolworth’s cafeteria in Greensboro, North Carolina. No, I went there to play basketball. I didn’t go there to be involved in politics, to be a person that goes against the establishment. None of that. My goal was to be educated so I could have a good life. Well, [19]66-[19]67, I earned a scholarship and the right for them to be on scholarship. They paid my books and tuition.

Gave me a job around campus and stuff like that cause I was a poor kid. I had nothing. Nothing with physical and little bit of mental ability, which was, then at that time, I was dyslexic. I didn’t know. I always tried to put stuff down on paper, but it came out backwards. And how I managed to maintain my two point, one point grade point average, I have no idea. You know, just guessing things I guess. But anyway, I did and got through that year, and the next year I played. I was what you called a six man. And by now, after playing with kids from New York and Philadelphia and stuff like that, I had a . . . Meeting people like Bob McAdoo, which was in high school. When I got there, his friend befriended me, fed me on Sundays with the church with him and stuff like that. Bob McAdoo, imagine that. Train him how to play. Anyways, so let’s see, that was [19]67-







[19]68 school year. I was involved in a triple over-time tournament, in which I file out Bobby Dandridge. He play with the Milwaukee Bucks the first year I was in Vietnam. [19]68-[19]69, he was like a superstar in the NBA. After being told that year I was a second team All Americans because I had played him and filed him in that triple over-time game, I was in this little magazine that I wasn’t able to afford to buy it or nothing, but I saw this group of guys. I said, “Oh this is the second team All Americans of the United States?” And I didn’t know what it meant at the time, but anyway, before I could actually absorb all that, and go through the next year, in April of that same year Martin Luther King was killed.

And by April 28th, by May 1st—somewhere along in there—out of the blue these FBI guys started coming to campus looking for me. Me? What did I do? I’m a basketball player. I’m a student. You know, I haven’t flunked out. I’m six foot eight. They say that once you get there, they’re not gonna put you in no war. But they did. At that point, it just wasn’t fair. You told me that I can’t be there so I can’t be there. Now that I become somebody, you want to put me somewhere else that I know nobody else. But anyway, they told me if I don’t be downtown and join the army by the 31st, they was gonna come back and put me in jail. Well, I couldn’t go to Canada. Hell, I didn’t know what way it was. Fuck. So, there I go. So reluctantly, I go to Fort Bragg. I become this guy that the drill sergeant can’t scold. The only thing you can do with him is give him a guidon bearer. But I was physically in shape so I outran everybody in the company, in the platoon.

Everything. And I was assigned a job as a guidon bearer. And, ah man. The Colonel loved me, everybody loved me. I never did guard duty or kitchen duty or







none of that. Never. Huh, kind of strange. But anyway, I ended up going to infantry training school and then general welfare school, or whatever it was, and then parachute school, and that’s how I spent the first six months. And by the end of six months, I was ready to be killed or kill somebody. So now, I go to Vietnam. And I’m assigned to the one-seventy third, the only company that ever did air assault and almost got wiped out. I’m assigned to that unit. So the rumor has it that you’re on a front line guy, you kinda go out there by yourself and you kinda hangout for six or seven days. Ten days, eleven days, twelve days, thirteen, fifteen, twenty, thirty days and you come back home. Everything is being dropped to ya except one thing. You know, by the time you go to the village you get yourself a bunch of that and you just hang on. The villagers were people like us. Farmers living on dirt floors, straw huts. And they told us they were gonna liberate them from freedom. Well at home, I remember that they showed us pictures of dogs being sicked on us and water hoses and people getting beat up by the police that were all White. I know I had us saying all, “Black boy, go home. Whatcha you doing over here? We got nothing against you.” You know what I’m saying? They got nothing against us nigger. But they keep beating us up. So, one night around a village, I was invited to come over to this family hut I had befriended. We was camped outside the village, I guess in an area about this size, and there was about thirty of us, thirty-five, somewhere like that. Including the captain, and we was kind of hanging out with this village. And this guy that didn’t live too far from the edge of where we was camped came over one day.

Little girls came over first. A family. Little children. And that was a certain kind of







meat that I really didn’t like and nobody else liked. We would give them the meats and stuff, that kind of thing, because to us, they had nothing but grass and stuff that looked like grass and rice all the time. And I was thinking about, “Wow, when I was growing up, my momma had nothing but grits and poking beans to feed me.” You know? It wasn’t no difference. And here we are. What on the other side, you got some people that want to push them to hurt us. But on this side, we want to push them to tell us where they at. So, in the middle of the yard, I felt like I was in the middle too. So what am I doing here? But anyway, you know, a sense of trying to get away from that never left. But one more important thing: Frederick Fisher. Tell you about that story. Frederick and I, we graduated high school together. He was in a different homeroom—

	T:	This was in Mebane, right?



	A:	Yeah, this is at Mebane. We were all kinda scattered out cause when I went to college, he went to college to. We had thirty-five boys in that graduating class of [19]65, which by the way, marks one hundred years after the Civil War ended, which also marked the beginning of the Buffalo soldiers in 1866, the next year August. So, not putting all those things together and not knowing nothing about that. But anyway, going with Frederick, when I first got to Vietnam, I was getting off the chopper after being taken to An Khe and across the helipad, we’re all rushing off, rucksacks and new uniforms on and crap. Jungle fatigues and stuff and helmet, you know. Didn’t have a bully hat yet cause they didn’t allow that.

You know, we were all recruits. So as we’re coming off the plane, this guy with a full beard and looking straggly and ugly and looked like he’s about to bust out of







his pants because he’s just so torn and raggedy. He goes, “Hey, Byrd! Byrd! Is that you?” By the way, they call Byrd Salit after my granddaddy. That was my high school’s name and it still is. People that know me personally now call me the Byrd or Bobby because those are my growing up years’ names. And so, as I always say, I’m person of many characters because I got many names. [Laughter] But anyway, me and Frederick, we go down. In An Khe, they’ve got this hole. It’s like a big cannon, looks like a bomb, blew it up or whatever. But anyways, we’re there, and yeah, we’re doing stuff and talking about old days and stuff like that. Unaware, he says, “Well, Byrd, I gotta catch that last chopper out of here, I’m going home today.” [Sound of camera snapping photos]. And he left. And I came in. [Technical sound] This was in 1968, November. So I don’t think I saw Frederick again for the next five, six years. So we didn’t get a chance to talk about our Vietnam experiences then until much, much later. And when I found out, Frederick told me he had a bronze star. He had got wounded like I had got wounded and everything. The fortunate about that all is in [19]66, I played football. I played football with this guy by the name of Joshua Welch. He’s now the only person, that we know of, that died as a result from Vietnam fighting. He was a paratrooper. I had no idea that I was gonna be a paratrooper. I thought it was stupid jumping out of a freaking plane. But I think I got to the point that anything another man could do after those experiences I could do too. Although I was six foot seven or eight or whatever you want to call me, I had a hard time just kinda coming out of natural things. Beds were always too short. Uniforms were always too short. Stuff like that. Yet, I was asked to be a sergeant. I







could’ve but an officer but that meant another year. I only did two years in the service. So after my twelve months in Vietnam- which I got hit a couple of times-, I collected six ears. [Deep breath in]

	T:	That’s from the enemy soldier?



	A:	Yeah. We use to keep ‘em and salt it. Salt the thing. You couldn’t brag on stuff like that, it’s kinda like illegal to do it, but then, when you make kills like that, you would do that. Sometimes, some other uscrimedies [extremities]. We were one hundred and seventy-third, known as the herd. And we were some nasty boys. Just like the NBA with some nasty boys. Just like the VA with some nasty boys. Did some terrible things. Not me personally, but VA and some other people I’m with listed things that were not so nice. But always I couldn’t participate because I felt like it was my people. We weren’t being treated no different. So what was freedom about anyways? What is it about? I don’t know. I still don’t know today, I don’t think. I don’t know what that is. Ideal century, right where I’m at, and I can’t get a house out here. So, anyways, I survived Vietnam after being wounded twice. The first wound, they kept me in the rear fifteen days. It almost went through my arm and killed me, I guess. My arm was in the right place, say I have God’s divine blessings. And when people talk about that part of it, and being saved because of God interference, I don’t think they know. No, they say, “Well I believe in a God,” or whatever. I believe in a power greater than myself. I can’t identify it because I was told from growing up that it was a blue-eyed man with dark brown hair and da-da-da. Then when I read the Bible it tells me something else so I don’t know. I’m confused. Just like I’m confused about freedom. But yet,







I survived that. And I survived a piece of scrap metal taken out in the field and being attended to by my squad, the guys that were with me. That was kind of like a cowboy being shot in the West, and his partner kinda nursing him back to health kind of deal. I couldn’t be picked up right away. We had to kinda hide and run for ourselves a little bit there, but that’s something else. I guess, I almost kinda forgotten a little bit. It just comes back when I get depressed a little bit sometimes. Just trying to figure out where to go next. I don’t know. For me, growing up in America has been crazy. I never have felt the freedom to do a lot of things, as they suggest. Even now, there’s always something else that holds you up from achievements. And it has nothing to do with fairness or anything.

This is something. But I guess I’m eternally blessed. I went back to college after Vietnam. Went back to the basketball team. And this was my junior year. This was school year of [19]70-[19]71. And this was a trip, they advertised I was coming back. When I got back, I don’t think the coach not one time recognize and say, “Oh, you know, thanks for having you back da-da-da. . . How was your experience?” None of that. Just, “Carry on just like you never went nowhere and experience that. Just be a good student and a good basketball player, and I’ll get a championship and you’ll be all right.” Well, we exceeded that moment. Matter of fact, that year, my junior year, my first year after Vietnam, I had a very good season. So good that we won the right to go to NCAA tournaments in Kansas City, Kansas. We won the two games and we lost the third at the same place.

The person that won that tournament was a player with Virginia State, and his name was Michael Gale. He ended up playing with the New York Knicks. I think







somewhere around [19]71-[19]72, somewhere like that, he appears a god for the New York Knicks. Had beat that ball up too many times. Another player, Marvin Webster. Beat him up pretty good. He made the pros. Ah man, I could name a dozen people like that. And you wonder why, “God why you send me down this road? I don’t need to go down this one. I fought hard to go down the other road.” I was the most valuable player for our team. The first team that I played had a seven-foot-six center. A head taller than I am. And I’ve got a picture in the newspaper, in Kansas City something or another, of me dunkin’ on him. Hold up, the scouts and everything wanted to beat the door down. That’s what the guys tell, but of course, you know, I’m not it. I’m not knowing what is going on. I’m oblivious. At that point, I was like still not into people. I didn’t know I suffered from PTSD. I didn’t know what I was going, always had this thing about, “Oh, right there, I can’t trust you no more. You’re not gonna do me right. I can’t trust you no more.” So I went on back, and the next year, which was my senior year, we won most of our games. I think we might’ve lost one or something, I don’t know. But anyway, we ended up winning the MEAC, which still stands right now. After that, I went back, I don’t know, disillusioned about what was supposed to happen.

Well, damn. I mean weren’t we supposed to go back to the NCAA tournament? Don’t we have the same team we had last year? It’s like, “Wow, what? What did you do, coach?” So a bunch of them got together, and they want to change leagues. So they take us out of the NCAA and they start the MEAC. “How do I end up not going back to the NCAA tournaments? I can’t trust you. You’re not looking out for me. You’re looking out for you. So now, I’ve got all these trust







issues going on about people and authority over me. So you don’t know why they mistrust or why they regret doing things. You don’t know the why of it, no. Why did you have to paint me a picture of that, and give me something else? You could’ve told me about the something else. You didn’t have to lie about it.” I guess, okay. Well, I come out of that, and I go into isolation. I come back here. I get a job at Tacachale. Well, I got letters for Chicago Bulls, Globe Trotters, and the Buffalo Bills, who Bob McAdoo played for.

	T:	That was an ABA team, right? A:	No, NBA.

	T:	Oh, okay.



	A:	They had just merged. T:	Oh, okay.

	A:	That’s why they form more teams because Chicago Bulls were just now- I think that was in [19]72- that year Chicago Bulls came up with a team. And I was part of that. Two hundred and fifty guys sitting in the bleachers. Everybody going out there and running down the court dribbling and speed and all of that. If this is what they do to judge how good you can play, shit, all right. Man, it takes me a little while to get warmed up because by then now, I come home and there’s nobody for me to play. There’s no, “Hey, this is whatcha need to do, man. You need to keep on the ball.” Wasn’t nobody around here for me to keep on the ball. So I end up working at Tacachale out there. But I goes to Chicago, and I try out for these, but my legs weren’t as good anymore. Just ‘cause after the season in college and stuff, there was nothing to do, but I think I had an internship coming







up for the summer. And I don’t know why that thing bothered me so, but that’s why I didn’t graduate because I couldn’t deal with the people anymore. I was always isolating myself. Always somewhere around the corner smoking a joint by myself.

	T:	And you weren’t really like that before the war?



	A:	No, I mean, before Vietnam, marijuana really didn’t, marijuana or any other drug, didn’t really interest me like that.

	T:	And just the isolation- A:	Yeah

	T:	Signs of isolation too, that wasn’t really how you were?



	A:	Uh-uh. No. But after I came back, one incident I remember real well was I was so disruptive about why should I have to learn humanities. Well, you know, the French architecture has a lot to do with the buildings that’s in Vietnam. And see, I had seen all this stuff real. And here it is on a black school, we’re still in Vietnam, [19]70, guys are still being drafted, we got school wars going on, we got people in Boston telling Black folk, “We don’t want to hang out with you.” When all of Boston tea party everything started right there. [Clinking noises] What is wrong with these people? [Camera sounds] It’s kinda crazy. So I come home, I get a job at Tacachale, and it’s got a Black side and a White side to people that’s retarded, or whatever, need help. Black side and a White side. You mean to tell me they don’t suffer from the same emotions? So I fumble through that and I end up with Tacachale as going through each stage with my little college education, and finally, I end up transferring from there and going to California and rolling around







a little while with my postal service thing. I get out there, and the weather is so bad, the fog and the snog [smog] and stuff. And you know, you hear so much about California. Oh the beaches, Los Angeles- man, I could walk around there. I think I lasted maybe six weeks. Crying, not from emotional stuff, but from the fog and the smog and all of that, you know. So I ended up, I drove for adventure; I drove [19]53 Cadillac out there. Those were the days of the shoulder bags and the pouches and the rings and the stuff like that. The super fly. All of that.

Cocaine being sent by way of dead folk. America burned poppy fields so it could destroy the heroin that was coming here. Fifty years later, they’re still feeding the heroin to our population by way of pharmaceutical drugs and all of that other stuff. Hold on, we got rid of the drug dealers and everything else because we don’t put all the Black folks in jail. Now, I was in a treatment facility and this guy one day, he says, “Man, thank you for you service.” He said, “Me, I didn’t go, man. I went to Canada, man.” Cause he had gave a testimony that he was able to give one of his relative’s, to help him take care of himself, a thousand dollars a week.

	T:	Wow.



	A:	You run away and come back, and you’re just living fine, American Dream. Yeah, I fight for it, god damn, I don’t see it yet! So I don’t know what makes it crazy. I don’t know what makes a Black man’s experience in Vietnam differently. I know that that was a certain amount of camaraderie that existed. One of those experiences- what? What are you doing?

	U1:	Sniffing around.







	A:	Sniffing around? U1:	Yeah.

	A:	One of the things that I notice, though, about Vietnam. I met this kid from around Macon, Georgia. I really hadn’t never really been to Georgia. And never really been around a lot of people. You know, you meet people from Georgia, and they’re all nasty and snobby and stuff. They don’t like White folk. They don’t like Black folk. You know what I mean. So you meet people like that. Well, I think he come from a big farming family kinda like that. And he just had finished high school, and in that farming district, I suppose most of the Black folks that he came in contact with was kinda from environments like this. You know that really might not have read that well. They might not have went to school like that. Him being white, he was able to follow what the rest of them did. “Hey, boy, get over here and do this and that.” They’d go and they’d do it. Well, when he got to Vietnam it was a whole different story. Cause see, some of us, you know, we got college education, and we’re coming from New York and Philadelphia and New Jersey. We know nothing about no damn white boy talking about this and that.

So there were a lot of temper flarings. So as a squad leader, you had to understand both sides of that. As a human being, you had to understand both sides of that. So that was part of my Vietnam experience too. Those prejudices versus the ones that I continued to receive after I came back from Vietnam.

Those prejudices that even White guys had to receive after they came back from Vietnam. So, it was just a different type of taboo. Most of the guys that were drafted into Vietnam that were White was coming from the Midwestern, Southern







isolated cities and country sides. So they saw stuff on television that they couldn’t probably believe, or they might’ve cheered, people like Governor Maddox, Mississippi burnings, all of this stuff is going on that’s making some people feel like they’re entitled to treat other people that way. And now you send me to Vietnam, and you expect me to come back differently? When everybody else around me is still doing that same stuff? So then I begin to imagine the stories about the Buffalo soldiers when I was told that. Because see, I never knew nothing about the Buffalo soldiers.

	T:	Can I ask, do you remember when you first heard about the Buffalo soldiers like where you were?

	A:	Well, I had got so engrossed into doing nothing until I was trying to figure out something to do that would take me back into socialization.

	T:	You said you’ve done treatment. Had you completed that at this point? A:	Huh?

	T:	Had you completed the treatment?



	A:	Oh, no, this has been a continuing thing. Oh I didn’t end a treatment until for PTSD. All these things transpired twenty years. I’ve got children. I done disappear with two women that drove me crazy, all of that stuff, before I get the treatment. I was probably among some of the first veterans around here that started getting PTSD treatment.

	T:	Okay. I’m sorry to jump ahead before the Buffalo Soldiers.



	A:	It’s okay. And that was in [19]89. This is after going through Tacachale and North Florida Treatment and Evaluation Center, and all of that stuff. And during that







time of working, what I found out is that I was a great leader. But I wasn’t responsible to responding to establishment, cause they were doing stuff wrong. They were trying to falsify or get you to do something that was wrong to make their build up look okay so they could get money from over here that were being pushed this way. Politics, again.

	T:	That must be a lonely place to be in— A:	Oh yeah

	T:	Because I imagine that there’s a lot of people that are in similar kinda socioeconomic positions that have had similar difficult life experiences. It just kinda learn to cope with it-

	A:	Yeah



	T:	And to just kind of accept it, but you haven’t, and I imagine that causes—



	A:	Well, I’ve accepted it to a point. It’s just that the other thing that I had to use to cope with it, sometimes you get out of control. It’s like, man, I know a lot of successful people that came down the same path, but somewhere God kept switching things up on me. And I’ve tried to figure out over the years, is it really me? Is it really how I think about things? What it is and why it is. But then, how did I stumble upon the Buffalo soldiers is isolation again. Being a Buffalo soldier, especially when you’re trying to tell a story of them, is an isolated place. Being a soldier in the midst of civilians is an isolating place. So it fitted me perfectly because then, people are always asking me who I am. I’m always being exposed to questions, “Oh you play basketball?” Blah, blah, blah. Okay, well, what am I doing to expose to young black men what they need to do to still float? How can I







be an example? How can I use my life? Cause see, if I was completely alone and didn’t think about other people, hell. You know, that thing right there, that’s thirty- five hundred, thirty-seven hundred dollar worth of appraisement shit. You know, I mean all this junk, right? It all means something. I don’t have to have it. I could be over it, be at the beach some damn where laying up in pen. I could do that. I could manage that because I’m totally impermanent. There’s a lot things that I should be able to do. That’s going on now, that Vietnam veterans has missed is things have really changed. “Oh, welcome home, veteran!” Huh. When I came home, it wasn’t, “Welcome home, veteran!” “Welcome home, you fucking baby killer.” Hurry up as soon as you can get to the BX. Buy you some civilian clothes. Hell, everybody else walking around with fucking long hair, you come with a little short jagged. Didn’t know you from the damn service. Can’t be nothing but. And they fuck with you. Can you imagine that? Then you got Vietnam veterans then that’s going in and blowing up McDonalds. Suiting it up, shit, you know. Them killing themselves, some guys were still killing themselves. What? What is it that changes that little boy into that person there? Something. It’s something. So, then you get rejected, like you’ve been rejected all your life in some ways. Oh see, they pull kids that have hope of coming out of a situation, then they put them in a situation, and they tell them, “If you survive, everything will be all right.” But then when you survive, everything is not all right, and they tell you it’s your fault it’s not. “Huh, how could it be my fault? Society promised me certain stuff. No, society said if I do this, this, and that, then everything would be all right. You done did this, that, and the other, and everything still ain’t all right. Not up here. It







might appear to be okay. And some of us over react, and I think it’s just like when the drug epidemic hit, the United States, it’s like because it was in certain communities, they didn’t pay it no attention. Now, college campuses are full of it. Everybody popping pills, sho’ nuff, you know, on a regular basis and they’re just going, “Wow, what’s this going on? Our society is really out of control.”

	T:	You’re talking about compared to the earlier epidemics of heroin in Harlem, and things like that?

	A:	Yeah. I mean, you know, a lot of people suffer during the years when they were arresting people just because they had needle tracks. Ray Charles, Billy Holiday, people like that. And now when you turn around and you look at the music of the day and the things those people had to suffer through to get their music out there, it’s like, “Wow, what? Do you really understand? And you’re still being of subservient people. You’re still being used, and you don’t get it? Oh, just because you live in a house in Beverly Hills, or wherever that was, your brother is living and came home to find a nigger all up against the wall and shit like that?” These people still crazy. No matter how far you get there’s still some crazy people out there. You might as well just not look for no change because it ain’t happening cause most people when you tell them, “Wow, I have this, that, and the other coming, and I still got a two hundred phone bill when I don’t need it.” All these stuff, and you try to downsize, and they shoot you another line. “Do you realize”- as a young person, this is what I said- “Do you realize that as a young person, you’re not gonna survive to see seventy?” Most of them don’t care cause







they can’t visualize being seventy. [Clinking noises] Maybe at one point I couldn’t visualize being seventy neither.

	T:	And you had your birthday last week, right?



	A:	Yeah, what a blessing, you know. But the Vietnam experience there, what I felt when I was there, I felt like part of those same people because at that particular time, I couldn’t see our government being no different there than they was here. They still was doing the same thing. I didn’t really see all these pictures before I begin to look at our history as Black folds in America or on this planet. The computer age and all of that has really opened up a lot of stuff. Now you are able to read journals and books, and things like that, that give accounts of situations from the past. Some might have often heard it said, if we don’t pay attention to our past, we are doomed to repeat it. By matter of fact, Bob Marley mentioned something about that in the Buffalo soldier song. What vision. And a lot of kids think that the Buffalo soldiers is just some Bob Marley song. They think it was originated by Bob Marley, but no, Bob Marley is paying tribute to the only army we are representers. That came out of the chaos called the Civil War. Now that’s when I begin to look at the Buffalo soldiers and look at Black history and further realize how manipulating and controlling, and everything else that we still are. And the Vietnam War was just something they allow to happen so they could maintain control. When you look at the story that’s being told by political machines and our government today, when you look at those things and you realize that people lied or people didn’t tell the truth or whatever just to further their own gain in life [Plane Noises], and you say we’re a Christian country, and







then you turn around and you say to some people, “You are wanted,” and then some people, “You are not wanted,” I guess it’d be a little confusing. Our kids are still growing up in the ghettos. There hasn’t been any change, that hasn’t changed. Our kids are still growing up not even knowing their parents name [Camera noises]. If you asked them and say, “What’s your daddy name,” some of them don’t know. I have a girl, a friend, that works at one of the elementary schools and she was telling me how shameful it is. And we give kids all these crazy names that they can’t spell. I don’t know. So it keeps you… Some veterans are doing great because they are helping other veterans. You know, I would be doing great. This is a veterans’ project. I felt like by becoming a Buffalo soldier I could elevate who we are as veterans, who we are as Black men, and what our goal has always been, and that’s fighting for freedom. We’re the freedom fighters, and I guess we’ll continue to be that. Buffalo soldiers, having being established in the 1866 and not being eliminated. No, they’ve never been eliminated because the twenty-fourth and twenty-fifth infantry are still part of the original groups that they assigned. Out of those six regiments, forty from the

forty-first and thirty-eighth and the thirty-ninth infantry, they grouped them down to the twenty-fourth and the twenty-fifth. So the ninth and tenth Cal became mechanized and melted down into the other units. So up until 1954, a lot of the still the same units were going overseas as Buffalo soldiers. They just never wrote about it that way. Spanish American War, 1812- not 1812 but 1918 something like that—

	T:	1898, around there?







	A:	Yeah somewhere like that. Buffalo soldiers were there. So there’s a lot of things to discuss and portray or to bring back in history. Some of the Buffalo soldiers were the first men to organize and build a road in Yosemite National Park, and stuff like that. A lot different parks. They were our first park rangers. Buffalo soldiers guarded railroads and towns and trains and all kinds of stuff they don’t talk about. They’ve got medal of honor winners than any other group or military people out there. They don’t talk about that. We start getting into that era of freedom. It was a freedom, and then during that time, of exposing yourself as a human being and a man. You could talk about people like Henry Flipper. 1877 when the first persons graduate from West Point. And people talkin’ about what they don’t want to do or what they can’t do. Or what they told us we couldn’t do. But we’d ignore all those things, you see. I never pinned down, until I begin to be a Buffalo soldier, who Frederick Douglas was. Oh no, you didn’t pay no attention to Frederick Douglas because they only spend a little bit of time on Frederick Douglas in the history book. My grandson says, “We’re studying World History.” And I say, “Well, why are you studying World History? Why are we studying World History?” The only way you can go and be part of the world is that you rich. You know, got a lot of money to travel. And that way, maybe an athlete, maybe a great educator, or a lawyer or something like that, but a normal person? Why would I want to know world history? I see enough of the world, usually on television. I know about Uganda. I know about Libya. I know a lot about world history that is going on and the same thing’s going on here. So why do I need to know about world history? It’s confusion time. So, for me, a Buffalo soldier







person is a person that talks about history and who we were, but yet, how we still must perform change because we’re constantly changing. Evolution is a constant change, and if we don’t change with the times, we’re gonna be lost. During that time, education was a thing that we couldn’t put our hands on. Today, we can put our hands on that, but that still hasn’t changed how we view freedom. I feel like I have a right to view freedom differently than someone that never been in the military or never had anything to do with fighting for. But yet, they feel like they’re free. When you read the Emancipation Proclamation, that doesn’t tell you that you’re free. It only says, “Those people that are being held as slaves in the rebellious states of America, you are hence now free and you’re going to seek employment.” With who? The very banks that fired you in the beginning, or what? So we haven’t gotten freedom yet because we don’t have financial freedom. We don’t understand none of that, no. We don’t understand political freedom. We have some people put in positions of authority and that light, but it’s very few.

Hell, we had that happen in the 1870s, 1860s, you know. No, in the Reconstruction days, we had that happen. Why are we fussing about that still? “Oh, we don’t have no Black legislators.” Oh yes you did. You had Black people signing the Declaration of Independence. Oh yes you did. You had people of color that owned slaves. Oh yes you did. So, the whole picture, if it’s told, instead of being, “Oh, that didn’t happen,” or denying it. See, when one denied a truth and the truth is found out, it makes one bitter. It doesn’t give them enlightenment. The same thing’s going on now, I think, with genealogy tests. Oh it got these big movie stars coming up, “I didn’t know I was Black. I didn’t know I was from







Africa.” Whatcha mean you didn’t know? You can’t figure it out? You definitely didn’t come from here. You might’ve been born here, but you’re not from here. The only people that are originally from here are Native Americans, as you call them. The indigenous people, like the people from Australia. I’ve seen them too. Blow it away. What has really blown me away about what we say about other people is when you get the chance to go someplace else, and that’s the best thing that could’ve happened to me, is to be exposed to other places, to be exposed to other people. And then to come back and look at your own environment and says, “This hasn’t changed. This same squirrel right here, use to feed hog right up there in the corner.” Our grandparents had lived right across the road. That was a railroad track went down through here. This road has never been paved.

	T:	This is 235?



	A:	No, this is 91st Street. This is called a haysand road. Why haysand? I guess sandy road, I reckon. This “sugar sand” we used to call it. Wagon gets stuck real easily if you mess around. But my grandfather on my daddy’s side. His daddy was a whole different thing. His daddy, he definitely looked White. His sisters and his brothers, everybody look White, but him, he was White enough, looking at him, but he had nappy hair. That’s what I remember about my granddaddy. And that was the man that put a whip in my hand. Now this was a hundred and sixty acres in him. Still is. Cousin live over there. Grow greens. Next door, they lived out here. This was a vacant field. The homestead house is across the street.

That’s my aunt’s property. Her name is Mary Butler. My cousin Alvin Butler Jr.







went to Florida. He played running back—not running back, master back—for Florida, and he was on the team that tried out for Jaguars when they formed it. He’s now probably a millionaire. He’s got a criminal insane program, or something, going on.

T:  A halfway house or something? A:  No, no no. He does counseling. T:  Okay.

	A:	Yeah, he does counseling. He’s a psychologist or something like that so he does counseling. Him and a guy by the name Rock Brashaw, they got together from North Florida, and they developed this thing together. I worked at North Florida Treatment Evaluation Center too, but I worked with sex offenders, and they worked with the criminally insane. More in depth kind of people.

	T:	Tell me how you got into counseling, and when that was. A:	How I got into counseling?

	T:	Yeah.



	A:	Oh, in 1983—[19]83 to [19]84, somewhere like that—I lost the job at Tacachale. I had to learn a new trade. PTSD started being talked about, and I started wondering all my life, everyone so crazy. About [19]89, my baby boy, that I took care of for twenty-five years, was then about three years old, and the momma had run off. And I had three other babies in school, and I needed custody. I’d been in jail a couple of times for child support stuff where children momma was getting food stamps all you had to do is go up there and tell a lie and you ain’t nowhere around and next thing you know they’re getting food stamps. That was







another thing. You see, that’s another thing that angers us too. Men, Black men, is that they’ve always pushed our women forwards. It’s just like giving away our babies still. It’s one thing to tell a person that you’ve got to take care of your child, but it’s another thing when they tell a person you are forced to take care of your child. Rebellion is definitely going to be there. If you raise a community that you siffle off, that’s just like cows. I got ten heifers out there. Them heifers have a baby every year. They not gonna miss that child cause that’s what they grown for. But a human being is gonna miss that child. If I’m a bull, then I’m gonna miss my calf, you know? If I’m human being, imma miss my child, but if I’m forced to give up that child, that’s a whole different story. So, now they just follow genealogy and stuff like that. Now you wanna try to pinpoint who we are and how we came about. You know, you got broken links because you pushed that one off over there or you pushed that one off over there, and the only thing you got to go with because you broke that link on purpose is that some baby girl child was sold to Mr. Rey for ten dollars or what. But I bred it so now we still have the same problem still going on. Now, Mr. Rey just go ahead and send the girl ten dollars. “I don’t want no man hanging around cause that child didn’t come out like I wanted. I want another type of child so go fuck him.” You almost see the same reverse thing going on, and they say, “Well, that’s just the attitude of the ghetto.” Naw, it’s something deeper than that. It’s like it’s a trend that can’t be stopped.

	T:	And you think it’s a pattern that probably started back in the days of slavery?



	A:	Yeah. Well, you know, when I was growing up, my mamma has buried my daddy, my sisters and brothers’ daddy. What one, two, three, four men. Five actually







with my daddy. She’s buried that many guys so I’ve got seventeen brothers and sisters between two people. I’m the oldest, then the rest of them fall behind me. So I’m attached to nobody because we just have the same momma or the same daddy. That doesn’t form attachments. So, did that continue? Right now, my daughter, she’s got three babies by one guy, one baby by another one, and one by another one. Now she got one in her belly. All them boys in jail or have been in jail. Well, she hadn’t finished high school herself, and here I am, been through college and all that stuff for she even get into the world. Something is wrong with that. I can’t say it’s me cause I tried to stay there with them. I tried my best, remarried and everything. Bought a house. I don’t live in the house because I can’t live with people, you know. Stopped talking to my wife, just sorted it out. I ain’t talk to her in three months. This is of late. Had a guy staying here. He came here and got sick, wouldn’t help me do nothing. I had rescued him for Georgia so I’m still looking out for people other than myself. I’m still—what’s it called—I guess a squad leader, you might want to say. Cause see, some of those people, you never see again so you’re constantly wondering, “What happened to them? How’s their life now?”

	T:	You don’t get to kind of savor the fruits of your labor?



	A:	Yeah, it’s not like high school. We have a high school reunion and everyone get a chance. I can call some of my high school guys up right now, “Aye, man.

What’s going on? What’s up?” Just talked to Frederick the other day.



	T:	Okay.



	A:	Yesterday.







	T:	Wow.



	A:	You see? You can still do stuff like that. But I mean, it still leaves a bitter taste in all of our mouths, that Vietnam experience. It still is a bitter taste. I have some of the guys, like me. You asked me when I started my treatment, and I said [19]89. At that time, I had four kids to raise, no house, got child support, no way of getting credit, no way of building a house. Then they give me a hundred and eighty-eight dollars. And I’ve got to raise kids. Can’t get food stamps because I owe child support. So. . . [Intake of breath]

	T:	Would it be okay if we paused it? A:	Yeah.

	T:	If I came back?



	A:	Uh-huh. Yeah. [End of Interview]

	Transcribed by:	Meg Cannan



	Audio Edited By:	Charity Kelly, September 13, 2019