AAHP 559, Reynolds, Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 559B Akil Reynolds

Interviewed by Adreanne Martinez on March 27, 2018 37 minutes | 20 pages



Abstract: At the time of this interview, Akil Reynolds was the vice president of the University of Florida Black Student Union. He emphasizes a need for UF to recognize and own up to past injustices, and to actively support social justice moving forward. In addition to sharing memories on how and why he decided to attend UF, he discusses his experiences as a student and details his involvement in student organizations and other extracurricular activities.





Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida; Black Student Union]



AAHP 559B

Interviewee: Akil Reynolds Interviewer: Adreanne Martinez Date: March 27, 2018



	M:	Hi, this is Adreanne Martinez with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. Today is Tuesday, March 27th 2018, and right now I am in the Black Student Union of the Reitz. I’m here again with Akil Reynolds. Thank you so much for meeting with me again, Akil.

	R:	Of course.



	M:	Following up on our last interview, you mentioned there’s a difference between diversity and inclusion. What steps do you think UF could take to be more inclusive or to get to that point of more inclusivity?

	R:	Acknowledging the social injustices that UF has done in the past. I think that’s step one. When we talk about diversity and inclusion but “Where’s the social justice?” I think acknowledging that social justice is really what should be at the priority of moving forward for the university.

	M:	Last summer on July 18, 2017, the Black Student Union wrote a letter to the Black community at UF, and it was in regards to the IBC and La Casita. Were you involved in writing that letter?

	R:	The president is the main spokesperson of the Black Student Union, so they’re the ones who type up the letters and put them out and all that stuff. I believe I read it over. I remember the president at the moment sent it to me, and asked me what I thought about it. I believe I offered a few critiques, but I don’t think they made it into the actual letter.

	M:	I’m going to read you an excerpt for the letter, and I just want to hear your thoughts on it, and if it’s still relevant to right now. It says, “We face similar





challenges in 2017 that students faced in 1971: from nooses created and left in classrooms, the vandalization of artwork dedicated to highlighting Black history, and even racially charged hate speech written on classrooms white boards. It is clear that the University of Florida is still not a safe space for students of color.” What are your thoughts on that?

	R:	“It is clear that the University of Florida is still not a safe space for student of color.” Yeah I mean, this is a space that wasn’t created for students of color, so I would agree. Then, I guess the reason why I was really quiet, at least trying to think about what to say next is— ‘cause really, what is a safe space for students of color these days? Because even in spaces of students of color, I guess that’s where we see newer issues rise. In regards to students of color being at the University of Florida, definitely no, not somewhere that was built for us, but I think it’s something that has a lot of progress left.

	M:	Okay. Outside of the Black Student Union, the Black Enrichment Center, and the Institute of Black Culture, do you feel welcomed as a student?

	R:	Outside of the Black Enrichment Center?



	M:	Yes, basically outside of BSU, IBC, and the Black Enrichment Center.



	R:	Do I feel welcomed? Yeah. I feel welcomed as a student. I think a lot of that comes from one: because of how I may be seen as less threatening. I think that goes into the idea of the intersection of my identities with my gender expression. I mean predominately masculine, but as compared to other Black men are seen on society I am not seen as hyper masculine. I think that could also be contributed with my body size. I’m kind of a smaller guy and I wear glasses, by





the way I dress and all that type of stuff. People usually give that argument when they say, “It’s not the color of their skin. It’s the way that they conduct and compose themselves.” Then you think of “Alright so where is that originating from?” and you think about the assimilation into White culture and all those types of things and how Black culture has been very much— when you think about how Black culture is viewed, it’s very much not falling in line of what is considered professionalism, and how professionalism is a product of White supremacy. Not even just White supremacy, I mean White supremacy mainly, but you know heteronormativity and classism. Very much within White supremacy.

	M:	Have you had any personal experiences with racial tension as a student on UF’s campus anytime you were here?

	R:	Yes.



	M:	Could you elaborate on that? It’s okay if not.



	R:	No. No. When I was a first year, I experienced a lot of racial tension. I think it was coming from—not giving anyone an excuse but I think it’s coming from…one: people just don’t even realize things that they say are very oppressive. Especially first years coming from their communities of being only around people that look like them. Then they come here and see people that look like them and then they say things that are like really ignorant. I remember I was talking to someone once and they were telling me about how the NPHC, the National Pan-Hellenic Council, the circle of Black fraternities and sororities, contribute to segregation on this campus because there are Black organizations that choose not to assimilate themselves into the historically White fraternities and sororities, IFC and PC.





Hearing things like that, it’s like you’re telling me that NPHC lead to segregation, but you’re not acknowledging the historical context of the reason it was created is because they were not allowed to join those types of organizations. I don’t blame that. Honestly, I wouldn’t even want to. [Laughter]

	M:	That’s such a good point too. Now, we are going to get more into you and your life. When will you graduate from UF?

	R:	Hopefully May 2019.



	M:	Okay, so you have just one more year. Why did you choose UF and was it always your first choice as a college?

	R:	UF was not always my first choice. I chose UF because at the time I wanted to go into medicine. At the time, UF was known as like the number one pubic university in the state in general. I know that their medical school is really highly ranked and at the time I didn’t understand how college worked or anything like that. I was like number one medical school. This is a place I need to go because “Why not?” I don’t really have people in my family that went to college, so no one could really explain especially my father. He didn’t understand, you know, that either. I was like why not. Did I answer all the questions?

	M:	Yeah, so you’re glad you’re here now?



	R:	Yeah, I’m glad I’m here now. My first choice originally was University of Miami, but I got rejected. I don’t know why I wanted to go to the University of Miami. I think I liked their campus better. I actually had a tour of the University of Miami, but I just did the singular walking tour at the University of Florida. Also, my father got a ticket that day, and we missed our tour. I think it was just a lot going on,





and I was like I don’t even want to be bothered, [Laughter] as to why I think it was my number one. Then I think University of Georgia was also like tied, UGA and University of Florida, but I got accepted into UF first. I think I also didn’t think I was going to get accepted into UF. That’s why I was kind of like psychologically suppressing the idea of wanting to actually go.

	M:	You mentioned medical school. What made you change your major?



	R:	It’s actually funny. After preview, I was really interested in getting involved with research and I was trying to find research opportunities prior to coming to campus. I was doing research on different professors and different things that they research, and I read one article that a professor like their research he wrote about. It was the evolution of the mitotic spindles. It was the most boring thing I’ve ever read. At the time, I was a biology major, and I was like I’m going to do heavy science and that type of stuff. I was like this is boring as hell, so I changed my major. Then I changed to public health. Why did I pick public health? I don’t know. I’m still public health now. I know the reason why I continue to pursue public health is not the same reason why I chose in the beginning. I still wanted to do healthcare type of stuff. I think at the moment I realized my interpersonal skills is where my strength is and public health is a very interdisciplinary field where I can pursue it as well focus on where my strengths lie.

	M:	Okay. Both academically and just outside of academics, what are your plans for after college and after you graduate?

	R:	After college? Well after undergrad, I plan on going to graduate school. After graduate school at least pursue my masters –





	M:	In public health also?



	R:	Public Health. I’m in-between a program that’s focused in management policy or social and behavioral science. Honestly, if there’s one that’s both, I’ll do them both. [Laughter] In between which public health program I’ll pick for that. I guess after undergrad I’m still considering if I want to get a PhD, but I don’t really know what the benefits for me would be being that in don’t really want to go into research., but might as well do it now.

	M:	What would you say your dream job is if you were to finish all of this?



	R:	My dream job I don’t know if I could give a name, but I could give an idea of what I would like to be doing. Something that is working in health disparities. You know making health care more accessibility some type of way. Whatever that looks like. Engaging with the community. I think whatever company I work at there needs to be more than just that company engagement. I’m very big on bettering the area around us, especially areas that have been historically ignored and have led to certain issues. I would want to be very hands on in that, but not so much as a savior complex. More so as an integration and working to integrate the community into the city or county. Whatever that looks like. As well as, working in teams. I love working in teams. [12:13] in regards to just like brainstorming and having goals and working to accomplish those goals and having fun while doing it. I like that so kinda those three pieces.

	M:	That’s a really great goal like, I love that.



	R:	Thank you, I don’t know what it’s called yet, I’ll let you know when I figure it out. M:	Okay, maybe you can be the first one.





	R:	Yeah maybe I’ll just create my own career.



	M:	So how involved would you say are you with the university? R:	Over-involved [laughter]

	M:	Over-involved? What organizations are you a part of?



	R:	So, I’m a part of the Black Student Union. It’s funny cause I was just talking about this the other day on how in regards to Student Affairs, I feel like I’ve had experience in every Student Affairs department, so housing and residence education I work as an RA, student activities and involvement through the Black Student Union, Dean of students office I work as a Preview Staffer, there’s more…

	M:	You were in Gatorship weren’t you?



	R:	Yes, Gatorship! I was a Gatorship director, that’s through the Multicultural and Diversity Affairs office. I applied for a job through Gatorwell, so if I get that, I haven’t gotten it yet, I haven’t even sent in an application but I’m pretty confident about it. If I don’t get it then don’t ask me about it. I think that’s it, stuff always slips my mind.

	M:	That’s a lot, so out of all those extracurriculars which ones would you say influenced your college experience the most, and why?

	R:	Gatorship definitely. Gatorship because it was the realest for me , it gave me the space to talk about things that have affected me my entire life and have made me who I am but I just never knew and being able to have those conversations for three years now really helped make me I guess as quote unquote “mature” as people may see me as because I have the language to be able to talk about just





various issues and how society has affected us and it really has taught me to be a very critical thinker so not so much just living to live but living and asking, “Why this is happening and how this is affecting me?” “How is this affecting the people around me?” “Why do we think the way that we do” “Why does the normal wall color have to be White?” Which is actually a good question now that I think about it. [Laughter]

	M:	That’s so good. So could you tell me more about Gatorship ‘cause personally I don’t really know a lot of it?

	R:	Well you just apply to it and I recommend it, I think you would enjoy it. So Gatorship is a social justice and diversity retreat programmed through the Multicultural and Diversity Affairs office and it very much revolves around inter- group dialogue with that being having a group that is having dialogue with each other so very much speaking from peoples own personal experiences and there are student facilitators who educate who give sort of very brief, I won’t say they go very much in depth into the circle context but giving people, like educating them on this circle context that may have led to why they may think certain ways that they do about their identities or how the identities have been just a social construction that exists in all of them in general and all of them and just like give people the space to talk about things.

	M:	Nice. I’ll definitely look into that for sure. R:	I recommend it.

	M:	So, you’ve been here for three years now so out of everything, it could be people, places, classes, what is your favorite thing about UF?





	R:	My favorite thing about UF is the people, I feel like that is probably a generic answer, but I’ve been thinking about it more and I remember I saw on like Twitter someone was talking about, I feel like this is contradicting what I was saying, but someone was saying how when you think about all the issues that exist in UF people wanna get upset at the administrators and like that stuff and it’s not something that all of them are perfect well some of them are problematic as well, but when you think about where most of the issues exist or have sprouted from it’s really the students and it’s the students who bring like those problematic behaviors that they learned from their problematic parents and they can tell their parents that I called them problematic I don’t got a problem with it they can catch me outside if they want to [laughter] I’m kidding. But, yeah it’s the students who bring in the problematic behaviors but then I’ve realized, what I’ve seen UF has done is being kinda that incubation space where I’ve seen students like myself very much become supercharged from the issues that’s other students being in and find very creative and innovative ways to combat those issues that exist and one of my favorite things is I see the way that they develop here as a result to that and bringing it into the communities that they travel to when they do go off and pursue post college pursuits.

	M:	So UF has many traditions, what are some of your favorite UF traditions?



	R:	What are some of my favorite UF traditions? Honestly, I don’t keep up with UF traditions. I feel that there are I don’t know, I feel like I’ve always been on a mission since I’ve been here at the University of Florida that I don’t know the whole… I hear people talk about frat houses and F Book but I got the F Book, I





think I threw it in my backpack and I haven’t seen it since, but yeah I just think there’s so much more that needs to be done than focusing, at least for me I don’t see myself, it was just the way I think I haven’t had the privilege to just focus on UF traditions I’m more focused on UF’s social injustices and how you know, certain Identities are being oppressed by the institutional structures that exist and how do we change that for the future? So maybe in the near future there will be more students of marginalized identities that can focus on living up to UF traditions, I just can’t do it at the moment.

	M:	Nice, so do you go to football games often would you say?



	R:	I went to like two football games throughout my entire UF career, I mostly sell my season tickets [laughter]

	M:	It’s okay



	R:	I’ll probably get arrested for that



	M:	I’m in band so like, I have to go to the games, but no I get it R:	Oh, so you get in for free?

	M:	Yeah, I get in for free, it’s nice. But like, I understand if you wanna spend your Saturdays doing other things cause like, I totally would too

	R:	Yeah I mean no, I think it’s a great thing I’m just not that big into football and one time, like the last game I went to, I sat at the top and it was hot and I thought I was having a heat stroke I felt so dizzy and it was a bad experience, and then it rains and then when I watch it too I’m always just asking questions like “what does that mean?” ”What does that mean?” I just, I’m not much of a football person.







M:



R:



M:

I get it, I only know like, the kicker, and that’s about it. So is that Pineiro? Yeah

I’m in a class with him last semester

R:

Oh wow

M:

It was called Black Lives Matter.

R:

Really?

M:

It was one of my favorite classes cause like, they really opened my eyes to like,



social injustices, so I really liked it.

R:

Who taught that?

M:

Dr. Lauren Pearlman.

R:

Interesting, I wonder if they still do that.

M:

Oh yeah. Okay so, you’ve gone to football games and I’m sure you’re familiar



with the We Are the Boys tradition within the third quarter, can I just ask all your



thoughts on that?

R:

Of We Are the Boys?

M:

Mh-hm.

R:

[singing] We are the boys from old Florida where the…

M:

F-L-O-R-I-D-A.

R:

Oh yeah see I don’t even know the words [Inaudible 21:08]

M:

It’s all good.

R:

So if you want my critical opinion which I will give you.

M:

Go for it.





	R:	We are the old boys well one, it just goes to show who this university was made for, boys, so very a patriarchal maintaining song we are the boys. Why not we are the people? Why not we are the family of old Florida? [Inaudible singing 21:41] Go Gators.

	M:	Go Gators.



	R:	[singing] in all kinds of weather we all stick together but it all comes to whether we really do all stick together

	M:	Yeah I agree.



	R:	So that’s funny, I think it shows very much where the priorities of the university is and I think it’s just a product of you know Capitalism, capitalistic societies and how much money the athletics department brings into the university and how much recognition it gets in general. But really nah, in all kinds of weather we don’t stick together. For example, I guess Richard Spencer it’s very much of like a brainwashing like together UF but I just don’t feel like there’s actual acknowledgement as to who is really being affected who really needs the support and what does you as an ally who may not have to face like ethnic cleansing or homophobia or you know those types of things how are you using your place of privilege to like if you wanna show me that you’re together with me I wanna see you being very proactive about advocating.

	M:	And not just being like hashtag Together UF. R:	Not just hashtag Together UF.

	M:	Slacktivism.



	R:	Yeah. Slacktivism?





	M:	Yeah.



	R:	That’s funny, I like that.



	M:	So I was doing more research on We Are the Boys and there’s a line that’s like “Where the girls are the fairest the boys are the squarest” so then I looked into what does it mean to be fair? I thought about fair skinned, fair being beautiful and back then being fair skinned was synonymous to being beautiful so I just think that’s interesting ‘cause we sing it all the time and there’s a lot of history there so.

	R:	That’s a really good point I’m gonna have to add that to my book. No I mean I wouldn’t even say back then still now lighter skin is associated with beauty and all that stuff so wow “girls are the fairest and boys are the squarest” What does that mean? Square?

	M:	I don’t know you know cause like R:	Strong?

M:  Probably cause like— R:  Could be masculinity. M:  That’s a good one too. R:  Yeah.

M:  I’m gonna assume like the whole “Be there or be square” I don’t know. R:   True, I don’t know what square is.

M:   But I like your hyper-masculinity thing better.



	R:	That could be it, I wouldn’t be surprised I mean the University of Florida has very problematic roots, I mean just like America in general too.





	M:	Which is also true.



	R:	But they don’t acknowledge it that’s what kills me, I mean like I know last time we talked about the O’Connell Center like how many Black athletes or athletes of color work, the O’Connell has a very racist history or Reitz Union very much a homophobe.

	M:	Yeah, Reitz is probably which once O’Connell was he like rejected the BSU ideas for… so it’s interesting.

	R:	Yeah and also like when he was a Supreme Court judge and he denied Virgil Hawkins I believe or it was someone else.

	M:	Admittance to UF Law.



	R:	Yeah admittance to UF Law and I had a friend who told me like she read through the entire like transcripts of the case and it was specifically because he was Black like there was no other reason he even said like “He has the intellectual capability yada, yada, yada” but like you know.

	M:	That’s crazy.



	R:	Yeah.



	M:	Okay so this question basically— it doesn’t necessarily have to be from recently, it could be when you were younger when did you first feel like a Florida Gator? And it could also be like last year or something.

	R:	When did I first feel like a Florida Gator? So this is an interesting, interesting question cause at UF I don’t feel like a Florida Gator but when I leave UF I feel like a Florida Gator and I was just thinking about sometimes whenever I travel like for break and stuff I wear my Florida Gator gear and all that type of stuff and





sometimes I wonder like with me being very critical of the institution and all that stuff like yes I have my critiques but at the end of the day having a degree from here is probably gonna open some doors for me that probably would not have been opened if I went to another institution and I think that also comes from just the developmental aspect I’ve been able to gain from it with specific friends that I’ve had or even Student Affairs professionals I’ve learned a lot from, which do exist. Which do exist. And, it’s interesting I haven’t even thought about it too much as to why when I leave I’m more “I have school pride” than when I’m here I don’t have school pride and I think it’s probably because maybe just not everyone knows as much as I do and it’s more so the image of UF and when I’m not here I’m more comfortable with portraying that but then here I guess I expect people to know better cause they’re involved with what’s going on as compared to people who don’t and they just stand there like “Go Gators” I’m like “Go gators”

	M:	Amazing. Yeah I was going back into an interview and there was an Alumni, Andrew McLeod, he graduated in [19]74 and he got asked the same question and he said he didn’t feel like a Gator until 2005 which was like thirty-ish years after he graduated which is crazy to me so I don’t know. Were there any other thoughts you’d like to tell me about yourself that could be useful for my vignette?

	R:	Any thoughts?



	M:	Yeah, could be anything or what do you like to do in your free time?



	R:	What do I like to do with my free time? Well when I can get sleep I do very much enjoy that, but who doesn’t? But I guess for fun like that’s always a hard question





for me like “What are your hobbies?” and that type of stuff cause I don’t know what my hobbies are I feel like my life is so much dedicated to this university where if I’m not doing things for involvement opportunities that I have, then I have to do things for school if I’m not doing anything and now if I’m not doing anything then I still have to do things for my internship. And really the only time where I’m not doing the stuff I’m supposed to be doing is because I’m distracting myself on social media or I’m sleeping cause I don’t sleep when I’m supposed to so it’s just like random times. But also I guess something that I like, I like just talking to people, that’s one thing I enjoy. Like sometimes I’ll just purposely wander around campus and just like catch up with people who I probably haven’t seen in a while. I’m notorious for just stopping people and asking them how they’re doing and they’re like “Oh I gotta go” and then I feel awkward cause I’m just like “Alright bye, sorry, nice talking to you” but I like just connecting with people. I feel like everyone has a story to offer and I just wanna know a little bit more about their story. Whether that’s I mean it doesn’t have to be like their whole dramatic life story but just their story of how their day has been, why are they feeling the way they feel in that moment?

	M:	That’s amazing you should just, everyone should do that. Talk and connect to people. So you mentioned that BSU is getting ready for a new E-board what are your hopes for the future of the Black Student Union?

	R:	Oh, great question [Inaudible 29:23] hopes for the future of the Black Student Union? I hope for, cause I guess right now I don’t know if you know but I’m transitioning as new president of the Black Student Union so I guess hopes that I





hope to see and this more of like a logistical lens cause that’s what I have more experience in is, I hope to see just more cohesion among leadership I feel it’s a lot of people focusing on their single tasks for their single position but I want to see more so us uplifting one another and that could probably even be a metaphor as to maybe just other issues that I’ve experienced in the Black community it’s very much focusing on these single issues or even just talking about identities and presiveness but single issues of being Black but then also like we’re oppressing other identities within our community so when you think about Black people who may not identify as Christian, or Black people who don’t identify as straight, or Black people that you know just those types of things, those are not I feel it’s a lot of them focusing on the task of or maybe the oppression of being Black, but not how we are oppressing other people in our community, and that’s not us moving forward, so that’s something I’d like to also see under my leadership. But on a logistical aspect, people supporting one another more, being more connected I guess and I want our networks to build, that’s also a priority of mine so our alumni network, I’d like that to be stronger in tuned to our undergraduate community I’d like to see more Black alumni giving back to BSU so we can have more freedom with the way that we use those funds and not depending on SG all the time because SG gives me a lot of headaches they give me more migraines than I really should get so… yeah and also too I guess, sorry this was another thing that I just remembered

	M:	Go for it.





	R:	When thinking about Student Affairs and the history of the university or history of college students I’d like to see student activism be great again and I say that cause I feel and this could probably be just me being paranoid but I feel like colleges or like the institutions have and I think this is international or US-wide that they’ve become smarter in finding ways to control students from being so active like advocacy and activism in power [inaudible 32:30] so that’s a critique that I do have with Student Affairs in general I’d just like to see a strive in advocating for things that we strongly believe in for the right things not advocating for like “bring Donald Trump to University of Florida” cause I don’t want him here and that would just make the activist in me go super sane. So yeah, student activism great again

	M:	So you mentioned you want increased relations I guess with Black alumni so basically I’ve heard that a lot of Black alumni they don’t come back cause they didn’t have a good experience at UF would you agree with that statement? Or disagree.

	R:	So I am not a Black alumni I will say my experiences I’ve had at UF have like if I was so like back would say I’ve had good experiences because of what I decided to focus on is just things that I care about and I’ve surrounded myself with people who also care about the same things and that people who I’ve learned a lot from so I wouldn’t say it was a bad experience. I would say I’ve realized bad things but that’s the world.

	M:	That’s valid.





	R:	Yeah that’s about it that’s the way the world works and it just once again empowers me even more to be ready for the way the world works and do my best to change the way those structures look like UF is very much just a playground for me when it comes to like US government and all those types of things that’s where it’s really gonna get you know, stressful. But I think when I become an alumni I see myself being involved with the Black Alumni Association cause I want to be a part of giving back and I wanna be a part of empowering my fellow alumni to give back to undergrads here and I want every Black undergrad to feel that way I want them all to lead and reach back to help Black students who are coming here to elevate them to higher levels so…

	M:	Okay, so I read somewhere, I’m not necessarily sure if it’s credible so that’s why I’m asking you, but I read that with the whole IBC issue and like the La Casita thing that some students withdrew from UF. Do you know if that’s true? Or no?

	R:	IBC for this year like for the renovation? M:	Yeah.

	R:		Oh I don’t know, it could be but I haven’t heard, like if it was, it wasn’t a lot of people ‘cause I would definitely know if it was like five, ten, fifteen, twenty I think I would know. But is it possible? Yeah.

	M:	Any other thoughts you’d like to share about yourself?



	R:		No, I’m growing every day there’s a lot that I don’t know and I very much acknowledge that and I love learning, I love learning hands on cause just like sitting through lectures is not my cup of tea, I have a short attention span so university classrooms are not built for the way I learn. With that being said you





know, I’m always looking forward to learning something new [inaudible 36:06] the good cause but then it seems like every day I’m learning what the better cause is so yeah, that’s my story and I’m sticking to it.

M:   Thank you so much.



R:   I got that from the SZA Ctrl album, I’m a fan of SZA.



	M:	Amazing, okay so thank you so much Akil for meeting with me again and I really appreciate it.

R:   No problem.













[End of interview]



Transcribed by:

Svetlanna Feddersen,

August 28, 2019

Audit-Edited by:

Sandra Romero

May 4, 2020

Final-Edited by:

Sandra Romero

May 20, 2020