AAHP 234; Harris; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 234 Lois M. Harris

African American History Program (AAHP) Interviewed by Kalyn Wyckoff on December 5, 2011 1 hour, 34 minutes | 42 pages

















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 234

Interviewee: Lois M Harris Interviewer: Kalyn Wyckoff Date: December 5, 2011





	W:	This is Kalyn Wyckoff doing an interview with Ms. Lois M Harris on December 5.



Ms. Harris, can you tell me about your life growing up?



	H:	Okay, I was born in a family of fifteen. I was the seventh girl. It was eight girls and seven boys. So I was born the seventh month, the twenty-seventh day, of the thirty-seventh year. And so on. And growing up with a big family we, everywhere you see houses around here, this was farmland. We grew up on a big farm. My dad, he had a big farm. He farmed all this land. He had corn, peas, whatever.

Cows, horses. We just had a big farm so I basically worked as a girl on the farm all my life ‘til I got, you know, big enough to go ‘round right and start at school.

Well, we had a little school right ‘round the corner here. And now this young man in the community, he’s already making a historical building out the old school we had, ‘cause this was just a little one room school, wasn’t bigger than here, and I went to school there ‘til I got in the ninth grade. And then from ninth grade, I went to Hampton, and from Hampton I went to RJE High School in Starke. Graduated from there and then I had my oldest daughter so I got married, had her when I was nineteen, had my oldest daughter. I have four children. That's the baby just went out. So the oldest daughter, Patsy, she worked at Shand’s. I worked real hard all my life ‘cause when I was having my children, well you know sometimes you kind of get in bad marriages. So my husband, my first husband, he loved to drink so that marriage didn’t last but ten years because I really couldn’t deal with that and raising children. So ten years I divorced him. And for ten years I was single. And after those ten years I married that guy right up there and stayed





married to him thirty years and he passed away six years ago. So I basically, you know, I had a good life I wouldn’t say I had a bad life, but I basically was a hard working person. I didn’t want to ask anybody for anything. I worked to get what I got. When I got out of high school, then I start working at a restaurant which was real hard work. And then I worked at a restaurant for fifteen years, cooking at a restaurant. I got tired of that, so I went back to school, got my CNA license so I could do in-home health care. And I met a family and I started working for them. The Jones’s over at Starke. And I retired with them from thirty-five years of taking care of their dad, then the mom, ‘til both of them passed away. And I worked just doing in-home health care, you know, being there for them and doing whatever I needed to do because I had to go get certified and they helped me a lot, you know, to get my degree and my license and everything. So basically, I haven’t had a bad life, ‘cause my four children, the oldest two went to college. The baby girl, when she graduated high school she said, “Mom, I’m through with school, I won’t go any further.” So she didn’t want to go but now the baby boy, that one, he was in the Army. And then Larry, he was in the Army and then he come out and then he finished up his education and he worked it up to the prison. He just retired couple of years ago at thirty-five years at the prison. But Pat, she's still working at Shand’s. She's a radiology supervisor over at Shand's. And so, all my children did good. I never had none to get in no trouble ‘cause I tried to teach them right from the beginning to—certain things you just don't do. Cause that’s what my dad and my mom taught me. That you don’t get into trouble, you know things. You stay home. I raised my children, I really wasn’t that hard on them, but





I didn’t allow them to run over the community ‘round here. I said, “Y’all got a big enough yard, stay in your yard while I’m working.” And I would check on ‘em when they’d come in from school. They didn’t go anywhere ‘cause I basically raised them by myself ‘cause I didn’t have any children for Randolph. I had already had my children when I met him so, I didn’t have any for him. But he was a good man, I had no problems with him. But Joe, the children’s daddy, he was just, you know, he was one that just liked to party and do stuff like that and I wasn’t brought up that way. My dad and my mom brought me up to go to church, trust God for whatever you want, and work for what you get. So I taught my children you don’t steal nothing, you don’t take nothing. If I'm not able to provide you with what you want then you don’t get it ‘cause if I can’t afford it, I can’t afford it. So I really had no problems with none of them growing up, they all grew up, never been in prison, never been in jail or anything. And I think I did good with ‘em and by ’em ‘cause I basically taught them the rules that I had when I was growing up ‘cause when I was growing up as a girl my rules was to work on that farm, go to school and do what I had to do and whatever they couldn’t provide for me my dad used to say you don’t need it no way. “If we can’t give it to you, you don’t need it no way.” So, but I basically had a good life. I had a good life and I’m now seventy-four and I still travel, I love to travel. And so now, I am able to go and do some of the things that I like to go do. I like to travel and all doing coming up my life, you know, I always had good opportunities to go travel. I don’t know nowhere that I really would want to go again ‘cause I’ve been to Hawaii, I’ve been over to Tahiti, I’ve been over to all those islands over there and I just had—I





worked for good people and when I said I wanted to go somewhere, they provided it for me and I was able to go and do what I wanted to do and I just enjoy life. I just trust the Lord and I enjoy life and they tell me all the time, my baby daughter, “Mama you don’t get tired you need to sit down some.” I say “Hey, long as I got life in the body and long as the Lord bless me to stay going I’m going go,” I say, “I’m going go.” Cause He, the Lord really has blessed me. And, I go to church every Sunday, I pray and I seek God’s guidance and His counsel, and you know I just basically live a life like that. And, you know, I don’t try to harm nobody. I love everybody, that’s me, I’m a loveable person. I just love everybody. If you mistreat me I still love you. [Her son walks in]. He's just been back in with me now but a couple of months ‘cause he had been gone for a long time.

	W:	You talked about your parents a lot, can you tell me a little bit about them? They sounded like very good parents.

	H:	My dad, he was a very strict parent. He, if he told you to do something and you act like you didn’t want to do it, well, you had to account to him. Because he was, he was strict. We had a great big ole house over there and you know back in the days on the farm, they build houses with porches all the way around ‘em. And my dad would sit on the front part of the house, on the front porch he had his whip, he would put it across his shoulder. And if you get out there and didn’t do what you was supposed to do he would wrap you with that whip he had and it was made out of cow hide. So when it hit, it would bring a bruise on you. But my mom was a soft person. She was really soft. She was, you know, she was just a sweet





person. She wasn’t like my dad, my dad meant business. Now, when he said do something you better be on your way going doing it. And like children I see today, you know some of them will talk to their parents. Now that wasn’t allowed with us. Not to even talk back. If we didn’t like something my dad said, well we didn’t say a word ‘cause if we said something he would just slap you right in the mouth. So, but now you see the children they disobedient, they hard headed, they don’t listen to their parents. That’s why so many of them in prison. But we grew up not having everything, but then we had a plenty. We had a plenty. ‘Cause we basically raised our own food. We had hogs and cows and horses and all that on this land and we grew everything. So we basically grew up, you know, back in those days, not really wanting for anything. We was able to have what we really wanted. But we just was, you know, brought up under Him, and Dad didn’t play nothing. I got a picture of my mom, she was much younger than my dad. She died, she got killed in a car wreck and she wasn’t but forty-nine when she died.

But my dad, when he married her she was just a girl. But, you know, back in the day they married early, back in the years back then ‘cause when a girl was fourteen, fifteen the man asked the parents well they let them marry. So, she married real early, but she was a good mother. She just basically didn’t work out nowhere, just worked in the house. And I always was the one that loved to cook so I hung around her. And I still love to cook. I cook every day, nobody here but me and Him and when I was here by myself after my husband died, I still cooked big meals and tell ‘em come on and eat. ‘Cause I’m used to cooking big meals and I just like to cook big meals and I just enjoy life. That's basically what I do. So





right now, since I retired, I do go back to the Jones's like every other week and stay with Jerry's husband. I go at four o’clock in the afternoon and stay all night while she go to the beach and get her some rest. Now he's not sick, but he's eighty-one. He go to the bank to work every day, but you know sometimes you just need to get up and get away. So she told me, asked me would I come every other week and stay two nights and let her go get her some rest. Now, I don’t know why she tired, but anyway, she likes to go and be by herself, so I do that. So that’s all I do now, I just go every other week out there. And I spend the night and he's very, very good man. He don’t aggravate you, he do everything for his self. I only fix his supper and fix his breakfast when he get up he get ready and he go to work and I get ready and I come home. So, it’s just good little something to do.

	W:	Something to get away from. Can you tell me what your father did? You said your mother worked in the household. What were your father’s occupations over the years?

	H:	Farmer. He was a farmer.



	W:	You said he came over during slavery? Who did he work for? How was his experience?

	H:	He came over from slavery and like I told you—now my dad, he said that he wasn’t really a Donnelly. That he was a baby when he come from slavery and he came to South Carolina. And then this slave owner bought the slaves so they bought his mom, and you know he was a baby so he grew up under the slave man. And he gave him his name of Donnelly. So that’s how he got the name





Donnelly ‘cause as he could remember. He said he was born in a family that name was Alexandra up there in North Carolina, but then after, you know, slavery how they did, back in slavery. I guess you don’t know ‘cause you’re young. But back in slavery, they sold the people and this man, he had that raised my dad. I didn't know him, but from what my daddy said about him, he was a good man.

When he got, you know, ready to let them go he gave them fifty acres of land, and so basically that’s all he did was farm. He never worked outside. The only time that I know him to do some work, he would go from here to Starke on his buggy. He drove a ox. He didn’t plow a horse or a cow. I mean a mule ‘cause he said mules don’t supposed to work. He had a mule on the farm but he didn’t work him, he didn’t let him plow nothing. But he had a big ole ox we called Buck. So, he would hitch him up to the wagon and we was children. And he would go from here to Starke and pick up their garbage. He was the first garbage man in Bradford County. So I think some of this tells about what he did back in there in that time in Bradford County but, as far as him to have a outside job anywhere, I never known him to work nowhere but his farm. And my mom, she didn’t work anywhere either, she just stayed and we’d harvest the food. And we’d can it up, put it up, and you know, we always had plenty to eat. And like I said, we had a good life. A good living.

	W:	Were you close to your brothers and sisters or did you have any other friends near here in the community?

	H:	Yeah, I was close. Well, we was a close family. But I had other friends. Like I had friends in Starke where I went to school at and I still got friends up there. But we





was just one big happy family. And out of eight girls I'm the only one left. So they all gone now except me. And I got three brothers that's gone and the others are still living. But they all come in, they just like I'm their mom. ‘Cause one of them will call me every day to check on me. Now, my baby brother he called me Mama Mott. I don't why he call me that, but that's what he called me. Mama Mott. I said, “Boy why are you calling me that?” “’Cause well you's my mama.” But anyway when my mom died, she had Ernest, Rufus and Roger, they was young children. I was married at the time and had my kids but my daddy had died and my mom, you know, they were young. They were all still in high school. So out of all the girls, all were living in Gainesville at the time. And all of the girls had they families. They couldn't come back and take care of my mom's boys. So I told my husband I said, “Well, I got to go home.” That was the one that you know, loved to drink, that was Joe. He look just like his daddy [points to her son]. And I told him I said, “I got to go home.” I said, “‘Cause my mama's gone, she got three boys and the boys need somebody to take care of them.” So he said, “If you leave, then go home then you stay.” I said, “It's no problem,” ‘cause I was glad to kind of get rid of him, so I come on home and got the three boys and I raised them ‘til they got big enough, you know, take care of theirself. Send all of them to school and at that time, you know the welfare didn't give you nothing. Gave me forty dollars a month for my mom’s three children. Yeah, she had three boys.

That's all they gave me to help raise them boys, but I was working. I worked, I had that job at the restaurant then. And I worked there ‘til they got out of high school. And I said, well, they all on they own. They went in the service. Rufus and





Roger, Ernest didn't go because he had a problem with his heart so they didn't take him. But the other two went in the Army and they stayed their time in there so they're all doing good. Now, my brother Rufus, he in the VA in Lake City. He's got some problems, but he doing okay. And so, that's basically how I grew up.

And after they got out of school and got out like on they own, then I got tired of restaurant work cause that was hard work and I went back to school and got my CNA license and that's when I met the Jones's. When I met Mr. Jerome, he had got his leg cut off when I was working at a hospital in Gainesville and he needed somebody to come home with him to take care of him because at that time he wasn't able to get around. So, one of the nurses there recommended me to him. And so we talked and I came from the hospital and started working with him and his family. So, I was like after he got better and got his prosthetic leg and all, he went back to his job. But his mom and dad, they was old so I started working for them and then I worked for the whole family all the way through. And so, that's basically what I've done with my life. And it's been good.

	W:	Where did you go to school at?



H:  I went to school at RJE in Starke. That was the Black school up there. It wasn't segregated at that time and so when they segregated us I put all my children in the other school ‘cause they closed down RJE anyway. So, my oldest two Larry and Pat, they went to Bradford High and Harold and him went to Bradford High. So they all graduated from Bradford High in Starke. So, basically, that's it.

W:  How did you see that Black schools were different than White schools? Did you see any big differences?





	H:	Big difference, big difference. ‘Cause at the Black schools you had leftover books, they weren't new, they didn't give us new books. And when, but I graduated from the Black school because that was the only one there that wasn't segregated then. So RJE was the only Black high school in Bradford County so that's where I went to school. I went to the ninth grade in Hampton and then I went on to Bradford in Starke. But when they segregated the schools I put my kids, ‘cause, I mean they had teachers there, but they had like leftover stuff. And I wanted my children to have better than I had, so I put my two oldest they went to Bradford High School and the two youngest ones, they went to Bradford Elementary School. But I put ‘em all in there when they got to go to high school, so all of my four graduated from Bradford High School in Starke. Now my daughter Patsy, she graduated at sixteen and Larry, he graduated at sixteen. ‘Cause I used to sit ‘em down at night and teach ‘em what I knew. And, you know we just had a big family reading, teaching, and everything. And they graduated real early. And Pat, I had her all set up to go to college to Tallahassee but she had never left home so, and she were young so she really didn't want to go. She had a beautiful teacher up there, Ms. Rosenburg. Now she really helped me out with Pat in high school ‘cause she would give her everything she needed for college. And she was just, I think Ms. Rosenberg, she still living but she's about a hundred. She's still living but she was a beautiful teacher. I mean she just, like, took over my kids for me and help them get the grades they needed, the material they needed and I wasn't driving at that time but she told me, she said “Now listen, now you need to let Patsy learn how to drive and you need to get her a car





and then she can carry you where you need to go and you don't have to depend on nobody else.” So she put Patsy in, you know, driving class and she learned how to drive and we bought her—I bought her a car and then I had transportation where I want to go ‘cause she drove me but, they had good teachers, all the way. But I knew the difference when they got to Bradford cause it was more there that they could get. So you know, all for them like volleyball and all this kind of stuff.

Sports that they could get into because at the Black school they really didn't have it. And so that's why I put mine—I was the first one to put mine in there. The rest of them down here say no they wasn't gonna put, and I say, “Well, my kids going cause I want them to go.” And they all graduated. Patsy, she went to Santa Fe in Gainesville and she went on and took more classes and she worked herself up and she's doing good. She's a radiology supervisor. Larry, he went to Lake City College. And then he got his degree and he went on and he worked at the prison. He worked his self up, too. He was Major Larry, he worked his self on up so, they all have been, did good and they all have been good children. And Joey, he was in the Army. He was living down in Melrose but his friend got real sick so she still in the hospital, so her son came and put her down in Kissimmee so he come on back here with me. I told him, I said, “Well, you know you was staying down there in the lady's boathouse but the son didn't want you down there so come on here.” So he came on back but, Harriet, she live across the road up there. So, Larry he lives behind me back there. So we just all stayed on the land basically ‘cause my oldest brother, he lived across the street, that road over there and ain't nobody did nothing to his house since he died. It's just like he died and left it, ‘cause we





ain't go in there and bother with nothing. And my other brother, he live down there, so we basically all live on the land ‘round here. All my brothers except for the baby boy, he lives in Hawthorne. And Ernest, he lived, he got a house right down there, too. But after he remarried again he's living over there in Interlochen ‘cause he married a laby from over there, so he live over there but all of the children built their homes and all of the grandchildren built their homes on the property. So we all just kind of live here together.

	W:	Did you or any of your children encounter racism in their schools or in the Army, or their jobs or anything?

	H:	They did when Larry and them first started going. They had a big riot up there in Bradford County. And Larry was in it. ‘Cause they called me on the job and said that he was in it. But now Pat never had no trouble. But, you know boys. And you know when somebody hit you, you going retaliate back. So, they had a big riot up there at the school. They had one and then after that they didn't have any more so they got along good. ‘Cause Larry say the boy hit him first and said, “Mama when he hit me I hit him back,” and that's how it started. I say, “Well you was taught to fight for your rights,” I say, “So hey.” But didn't nothing, you know, come of it. And it got better but, you know how it is, they didn't want the Blacks over there. But they passed the law for them to go there. So, now it's all different, it's good now. And all my grandchildren, they graduated from up there to Bradford High. Pat's two girls and Jen, Sheri, they both graduated from up there.

	W:	How did you get to school or how did your kids get to school before she had her car?





	H:	They had a school bus that would come down here and pick them up, but when I went to school, we had to go in a truck. A man lived ‘round here had a truck so he drove us to Hampton in the truck ‘cause they didn't let school buses come down here at that time. And, anyway, but when they was all going they had school buses. So they was bussed back and forth out at the school.

	W:	What were your favorite subjects in school and how did you get along you’re your friends? Did you have any nicknames or games or anything?

	H:	You know what my nickname was, and they still call me that today? Tar Baby. My brother, oldest brother started calling me Tar Baby, so that's my nickname, Tar Baby. And they call me that right on right now. But I got along good in school, you know, ‘cause I did like my Daddy say do. “Go do what you supposed to do and don't bother nobody and nobody going to bother you.” But, sometimes things kind of got out of hand but, you know, ‘cause sometimes they would pick at you because you wasn't dressed like people thought you should dress. And I told my children, I say, “Y'all don't have nothing to be ashamed about. You look just as good as anybody on this campus look,” because I bought my children clothes. I might not have had everything I wanted, but I provided everything they needed.

And so, anyway, they got all right. Patsy had the best friends up there after they got in, you know, going to school and she just had her fortieth class reunion with her friends about a month ago. So, she had good friends. Larry had good friends after that first riot they had but they all got along good in school. And I did, too, when I was going ‘cause I went to the Black school. And I had a lot of friends at the Black school, so I got along good at the Black school. ‘Cause everybody was





on the same beat, you know. So nobody couldn't say nothing ‘bout nobody and my subject was math. I loved math and English. And I love to write. And hopefully I'll get my novel together. I'm working on it, I've been writing it for a good while, my life story. And I'm still working on it. I told a friend of mine yesterday, I said, “I'm gonna get it published somehow and somewhere, somehow.”

	W:	I’ll read it. [Laughter]



	H:	But I haven't finished it yet. I do a little along. When I was here, you know, after my husband died I was here by myself a lot, had a lot of time to just sit and write but now I just stopped doing it for a while but I'll get back to it.

	W:	Why did they call you Tar Baby?



	H:	My brother [laughter], he said when I was a little girl he was darker than me. And he said I called him Tar Baby. He say I came out the house and I say, “Look at ole Black Tar Baby,” and he started calling me Tar Baby from that. And so that's how I got the name Tar Baby.

	W:	How was your life in the community? How were race relations within the community?

	H:	You mean here in the community? W:	Yes.

	H:	Well, we didn't have many ‘cause everybody, back in the olden days like when my mom and my dad and all of the older people like Ms. Mary, Mr. Jimmy.

Everybody was kind of like on one accord. But now after all of the older head had died out, now these young people ‘round here I don't deal with them ‘cause they into other stuff. And they not doing the lifestyle that I like, so I really don't have





too much to do with them. I basically stay in my little circle with my family and my children and, you know. But back in the day when we was coming up everybody was just one big happy family, but after the older head died out and the young people came along it's a different story. So I don't deal with them that much. I just my family, my children, my grandchildren, my great grandchildren. We just get together, one big happy family and we eat all the time, we cook out all the time.

Just my family, my children, my grandchildren, and great grandchildren. And basically that's how I do it. Like I was going to say, I don't mistreat anybody. When they sick or need some help like some of the older people still live here, I go check on ‘em and see if there's anything I can do for them. But you know, the younger people I don't fool around with them too much ‘cause they got another— they do different things that I wouldn't be able to do, so.

	W:	How has the community changed from when you were growing up to now?



	H:	Oh, it has changed a lot because when I was growing up we didn't have all these things these young children got. We played ball out there in the field and we had our own field and we played ball and we, you know, did other things right in our own yard. But now, the children from little bitty tots, now, they got other things.

They want to get on the street corner and do things like that. And I didn't allow my boys to, you know, when my children was coming up they stayed in their yard. I'd go to work and I'd say, “Y'all stay here because I'm going to call you and check on you. Don't have nobody in the yard but y'all.” ‘Cause then I know who to get on when I come home. I say, “So, when I come home y'all can have your friends come over I don't mind.” But that's how I brought mine up and I never had really





no trouble out of ‘em. But, now the neighborhood has really changed because they growing up now—the grandchildren and the great grandchildren of the older heads—you know, they get out there and they do things that they don't have no business. I never seen so many polices down in here than I do now because there's so much going on. And every time you look there's—and when we was coming up there wasn't a police, none of them had been out here because everybody took care of their own families and their own families stayed, you know, in how they was raised. And that's how I raised and that's how I raised my children, like I was raised. But they always tell me, “Mama you wasn't ever rough on us,” and I say “No, but I wanted y'all to grow up and make something out of yourselves. I didn't have y'all to be gangsters, in jail and drug dealers and all that kind of stuff.” I said, “Y'all ain't ever had to want nothing, get out there and make your own living. And have what you want, and you don't have to do that kind of stuff.” So that's how I taught my four and they all grew up and they children the same way, they teaches them the same way, so you know. But basically, me and my family, my grandchildren, my great grandchildren, we sticks together. So that's how we do it, we sticks together.

	W:	Did you see a Civil Rights Movement in Melrose at all, or no?



	H:	No, not particularly down here, but it was in Starke. ‘Cause we went up there and when Martin Luther King came down in Gainesville that time, I went over there. I wanted to see what it was all about. So I went over there and I saw how they was doing and the march and I never been in a march before, but I saw how it was going on. So I really never got involved in that kind of stuff. But it was rough, it





was bad. ‘Cause basically I don't know why one set of people thought they was better than the other set of people due to skin color. And that's what it was all about. But now, I think they learned a lot. I know everybody don't love, don't care about you and all of that kind of stuff, but I have a lot of White friends and it's a whole lot different now because Jerry, and Jerome and all of them, they just like my family and you know, and I got a lot of White friends. And I think anything I'd ask them for, I think they would give it to me if I needed it. But it wasn't like that one time. But it's different, it's different.

	W:	How did White people treat you when you were growing up and when you went to work and things like that?

	H:	They, well like I say, I always got with good White people. I say it that way, because my first job I had was cooking at a restaurant there in Keystone. And it was for the Alderman’s. And they were good people. They treated me good and I never had a fall out with them. I was cook, the only thing, one day there in the restaurant the waitress walked out and that was in Keystone at a big restaurant right down the corner and she walked out. I don't know what she left for but she told me she'd be right back. S, a customer came in and he wanted a cup of coffee and well, I told him I said, “The waitress is not here right now but I can pour you up a cup of coffee,” and he looked at me, he said “You can’t put your Black hands on no coffee that I'm going drink.” I said, “Oh, okay.” I said, “But remember, when you drink it, I made it.” I said, “When you eat, I cooked it.” I said, “So think about that now. But I'm not good enough to pour you up a cup of coffee but I'm good enough to cook it and you sit there and eat it?” He looked at me and





he said, I ain't going say what he said cause he said a cuss word. He said, “You got a point, young lady.” He said, “I am very sorry.” He said, “Pour me up the cup of coffee.” So he got be my friend because my color didn't want him to take a cup of coffee from me but I made the coffee. I cooked his eggs and bacon and whatever he was eating that morn but he didn't want me to give him another cup of coffee. So I said, “Now look, I could have played in your food, but I don't do that kind of stuff.” I said, “Now you look at my skin color and you think it’s so bad, but then you eat my cook.” And he said, “I am so sorry.” And he got to be one of my good friends. He come in there all the time and tell the lady, “No, let Ms. Lois fix my breakfast this morn.” And I said, “Mmhm.” [Laughter]. But, it was tension going on back in them days, back in the old days cause you know if you was White, you was more valuable, I say than the Black person. That's the way they saw it. But time has changed, time really has changed because they are better. ‘Cause when I was going to school one of my best friends was a White lady. She taught me basically everything I knew because when I start going back to get my nursing degree, well I, you know I worked in the fields and stuff all that time and I really didn't have nothing but a little high school education, and a lot of that stuff I didn't know. But she said, “If you want to learn, I'll teach you.” So she taught me and when I went to Jacksonville to get my CNA license and went there to pass the test, boy, I didn't miss a question. ‘Cause she had gave it all to me. And I took it in my head and I studied it and when I went there it was just like nothing. But now that I don't work, but I don't let ‘em go out. Every year I pay my twenty-five dollars and reinstate them because I never know when I might have to get a job





again. And if I got my license, well I can work in nursing home or work back in a home with people, you know, that have to take medication. ‘Cause, if you going to give them medication you have to be licensed, you can't give it to them without being licensed. So, you know I don't think I'll have to go to work no more but if I do I can go, long as I got some health its fine. And I'm doing good, though, for my age and all because I don't sit down. I walk every morning. I walk from here to the Harvey's and back. Every morning, six o'clock in the morning. I get up and I make my walk and come back. And then I'll lay around the rest of the day and don't do nothing ‘cause I don't have nothing really to do that much but I'm going get my walk in, I'm going eat my food right and I'm going take my medication cause I am a diabetic and I got little problems, but I work with ‘em. I'm doing pretty good.

	W:	It sounds like religion is very important to you. H:	It is.

	W:	Can you tell me a little about your church growing up and now if you're very involved in it?

	H:	Yeah, I'm very involved in the church. When I grew up, I grew up in the Baptist church round the corner there. Well, we had—it was just everybody went to that one church, to the Baptist church. But later on in life that I belong to a holiness church now. I went to this meeting in South Carolina. And I don't know, just like the spirit of the Lord just spoke to me and I start speaking in tongue, which is in the Bible and then I wanted to get more and more deeper in the Word of God so I started reading the Word and so now I still belong to the little church right there





coming on the road. Divine Deliverance Church of God by Faith and I belong there and I'm the mother there. I'm the oldest one in the building. [Laughter]. Yeah, so anyway I believe in the Word of God. I read my Bible every day, I teach my little children, my little great grandchildren, them three year old twins. They never been—the two little twins and the other little boy—they mom and dad always put them in Christian schools. So now they go to Gainesville over there to the Rock, that's where they going now. They was going to the other one up there, but, since they grew up, they wanted to change schools so they at the Rock now. But all of them, all of them basically come up religious, you know. And Sheri keeps her family going. She keep ‘em in church, she goes to church and the Lord has really been bless her. Sheri, she worked at Shand's before she left here and now she work at Emory Hospital in Atlanta. That's the biggest hospital up there.

She work and then just couple a weeks ago she did a sketch of a movie with Denzel Washington so she kind of getting out there, she's really doing good, she kind a getting out there. And so they got a good life up there. Her husband, he, she married a boy from Georgia so that's why they moved up there. So anyway, but they all doing good. The oldest girl she played volleyball. And she doing good. Her mama got her in that like the traveling volleyball team so she travels with the team all over and the more she learn and basically they told her when she—she in the ninth grade now—when she graduate she'd have a scholarship to any college that do basketball. So she look at the University of Florida.

	W:	Very cool, that's very exciting. So she'll be here close to you and that would be very nice.





	H:	And she knew I love them Gators. I am a Gator fan. I didn't go to as much this year but last year I didn't miss a game but this year my granddaughter, she wanted to go, so I let her and her friend have my tickets a couple of times. But I love them Gators, I love Tebow. I watch him last night. I told him, “Now that's the difference in a person that know the Lord and one don't.” ‘Cause when Tebow was out over there to Gainesville, he was just the opposite. He was just Tebow. I mean you could like see him, the good spirit in him. He was just awesome. And I thought I was so upset when Jacksonville didn't get him cause I go over there to Jaguars game. I'm a football fanatic, I love football. My grandson, he played up there with Arkansas for a couple of years. But he got tired of football and so he come on back. I said, “Well Casey, if you gonna, you got your scholarship what you going do?” And he said, “Well, Granny, I'm going finish my education. He said I'm coming back to Tallahassee.” So he came back, he graduated from Florida State. I had a friend up there in Starke, so we tried to get him in A&M but A&M was so expensive ‘cause he lost his scholarship cause he didn't want to play football anymore. And so I was talking with my friend up there and he graduated from Florida State and he said, “Casey want to go to Florida State?” ‘Cause they used to follow him, you know, play football. And I say, “He sure do.” And he said, “Don’t worry about it, say I'll get him in.” So I don't know what he did and who he talked to but we went up there and he went on in and he graduated from Florida State. And now he's a probation officer. He work out at Gainesville now. He worked in Orlando for about three years and they sent him up to Gainesville, so he's over there now. So basically all my grandchildren, they doing





good for theirself. Now, Angie, that's Pat's baby girl. Sheri is the oldest girl, that's the one that live in Atlanta. But Angie, she married that guy right there. Football player for the 49ers. So, he played with the 49ers when he first got drafted. He played with Miami, that's where he went to school at. He got drafted with the 49ers. And he was up there with them for about six years and he met Angie when he came to the Super bowl and then they got together and they got married. And so, I got a chance to go to California three times. He was up there and they sent for me and I went up there ‘cause I told ‘em I say, “I done travel everywhere and never been to California.” So when he got drafted he told me, “Well you'll get to go to California now ‘cause I'm gonna send for you to come to California.” And when he left California he played for Tampa down there—Tampa, no what's the other team down there? Ain't Miami, wasn't Miami Dolphins, it's Tampa Bay Buccaneers. He played for them ‘til he got his leg hurt and so but he was in there long enough to get bonded so he doing good and Angie she graduated from UNF, from Florida over there with her Master's. And she's working at Shands.

She's work on the tenth floor up there in communication. And she doing good. So they all doing good.

	W:	Can you tell me a little bit about your husband? I see you have pictures.



	H:	I met him in South Carolina, but he was originally from Orlando and we dated for about two years. Well, I had been divorced from Joe, my first husband, for ten years and then ten years later I met him. I went up there to a meeting in South Carolina and he was there. And I met him there. But he lived then in Orlando and so, I think we dated for about two or three years. And then I had said I wasn't





going to remarry, but you know. So we got married and he had a good life, you know. He worked at the DOT in Orlando, so when he moved up here he worked for DOT up here. So we was together for thirty years and he had high blood pressure and his kidneys and he just wouldn't get on dialysis. He got upset with me the last year of his life because I kept trying to make him go to the doctor and make him do the right things. And he said he didn't want to go. So he moved out. We were still married but he got an apartment down there in Melrose. And I would go and check on him and see about him every day. And I called him that Thursday and I talked to him and I said, “You know, we got you set up to go Monday morning for dialysis ‘cause you know your kidneys’ bad.” He said, “I'm not going.” So that Saturday morning, police called me and I knew what it was.

And so I told them I'd be right on down there, so when I went down there he had got up and fell and died through the night. He must have died that Friday night because I talked to him that Thursday. And that Saturday, you know they found him in the apartment. He didn't like going to the doctors and he didn't want to go.

	W:	Was there a reason that he didn't like going?



	H:	I don't know, we never discussed it. I tried to get him to go and he did start going after he went in the heart failure, he started going to Dr. Hubert at Shand's. But she wanted him to go on dialysis and he just wouldn't do it. And so you know when they found him dead they was want to know if it was someth and I said no. So I said, “Let me call Dr. Hubert for y'all. She'll tell you.” So we called Dr. Hubert that morning and she told him, said, “No, Randy just died because he wouldn't take care of his self. Say there wasn't nobody did nothing to him.” So then they





let us move the body out of the apartment ‘cause they was waiting for the coroner or somebody to come to check it, you know, to see if there was any foul play but I said, “No, he was just sick”. So anyway, but we had a good life. You know, me and him.

	W:	And you being a nurse, you were probably trying to get him—



	H:	Try to get him to go and do the right things and, he didn't want to go and he just got upset with me and he said, “Well, you just keep nagging me about going to the doctor, I'm going to get me an apartment.” I said, “Well whatever you want to do.” So he lived in apartment about three months before he died but I would call him and the lady next door to him. I would pay her to go over there and check on him and see was he eating and everything. I would go down there and see about him and check on him but for the last, you know, three years he didn't stay with me. He wanted to get out on his own. I guess he just didn't want to be with me when it happened and he just got out on his own. But anyway, we had a good life together. He was good. Now I won't marry. I'm doing too good by myself.

	W:	Can you tell me a little bit more about when you were a nurse in the home of the Joneses, right?

	H:	The Jones? Yeah, well when I met Mr. Jerome, he was, had his leg—I knew them before cause I used to go out there and clean up some for Jerry cause I did any kind of work that I could do. Somebody wanted me to do it, I did it because I wanted to give my children what I could give them and I didn't want to have to ask nobody for nothing. So I met Jerry and she ask me will I clean up her house. I said, “Well, that's no problem, I clean up my own house.” So I would go clean





up for her. And I found Mr. Jerome out there when I was going out there that afternoon and clean up her house. He was up there on the tennis court. The tractor had turned over on him and he couldn't get up and nobody had come home. And I the one found him up there. And the tractor was on his leg so I called 911 and got them out there. The emergency got him up and they flew him to Jacksonville. And but gangrene had set up in it ‘cause it was in the summertime. And they had to take it off up to here so he was pretty sick there for a while. And so, but I was work at a nursing home then but I, like I say, I go to my job then I leave and go on another one. ‘Cause I didn't want my children to have to ask nobody for nothing because they were my responsibility. And I wanted to do what I could do for them and so I just worked, basically worked all the time.

And so anyway, he was in the hospital ‘cause they sent him back to Shand's ‘cause they had to put him in—what's the name of the chamber, some kind of chamber to go in with his leg and they didn't have one at Shand's. So his daddy used to be the governor of Florida, Mr. Jerome daddy. So they bought a hyperbaric chamber and put it in Shand's. They got both of their names on it and now sometimes when I'm over at Shand's I go up on that floor and just look at it. And then when he come home he needed somebody to, you know, be there with him. Ms. Jerry never worked but she liked to travel, like to go places, and I needed the job and so I went to work for them. I would go—Mr. Jerome, though, he really never got down after he got outta the hospital. He still works at the bank ‘cause he own that Community State Bank in Starke. And he still went to the bank every day. But I would go by there to check on him and then his dad got





sick so I just start work full time for his dad and his mom. They lived in a big old house up in Starke so I would just go there all the time. Then that's when I had to get my license ‘cause I had to give them medication so, I really couldn't give it until I get my CNA license. I could do it with that, but I went on got my nurse assistant’s, you know. And so anyway, they were good people. Real good people. And all of them, that whole family they were just really good. And one year, he gave me Christmas—for my Christmas present he gave me season tickets to all the home Gator games. So that's why I get my tickets to the home Gator games ‘cause that's what he gave me for a Christmas present so I gets to go to all the home Gator games and sometimes, like when the Gators go play over here in the Gator Bowl, he already done got me tickets to going over there. ‘Cause they know that I love them Gators and I love football, period. That sport, I just like. And anyway, I worked really hard to get my license. I had to study but it just come natural ‘cause that's what I wanted and when you want something, you'll do your best to get it. And I always was a person that, I didn't want to have to ask nobody for nothing. I always wanted to have my own, so I wouldn't have to ask nobody for anything. I don't bother my children for nothing. At Christmastime I tell them, “Y'all don't have to get mama nothing.” And they say, “Don't you say that ‘cause we going do what we want to do.” And so I let them do what they want to do but I never have to, you know, ask nobody for nothing because I've always been the person that I was independent and I wanted my own thing and so, the Lord really has blessed me and I'm just doing good. I met a preacher in Carolina and he was trying and I said, “Unh-uh, I don't want another husband I've had two.” I say, “So





I'm done with husbands,” I say, “I'm just working for the Lord now that's all I want to do and I want to be free to travel and do what I want to do.” So he looked at me and he said, “You sure?” And I said, “I'm sure.” But he calls me sometimes just to talk, but I couldn't get involved no more. I've been married twice and that's enough for one person.

	W:	When you were growing up, were you not able to, like accomplish something you wanted to because Blacks and Whites had to be separate?

	H:	Well, not really ‘cause I always would get in jobs that was good people. Like the Marie's and the Jones's and they was people that had plenty money and the Lord always blessed me to get jobs with those kind of people and I don’t know how I got them but when I met them they was just like, “Oh, yeah, we'll hire you. And we'll pay you what you want,” so I always worked for people who had plenty and they didn’t look at me all, you know, like being Black. They recognized me as a person and they was just like family, the ones that I worked with, they was just like family. All of them, and so I just got along good with everybody and ‘cause the Bible say treat people like you wish to be treated. So if you treat people good and someth good going happen to you so that was my motto I just was good to everybody and like I said, the Lord always blessed me to work for people that had a plenty so they took care of me. Took care of my children. The Marie's was the first ones that I had to start work for and I worked for them ‘til he died. I worked for her ‘til she died and then I met the Jones's, and I worked for Mrs.

Jones and Mr. Jones ‘til they both passed away and I'm still around in the family with Mr. Jerome and Ms. Jerry, and Phillip. Phillip graduated with my baby girl so





we just like, you know I ain't had too many problems with Black and White ‘cause I treated people like humans, which is what they are. They are human. And you do the right thing and you'll get along fine so that's what I do. That's what I told my kids I say, “Y'all do the right thing.” I say, “The segregation and all that’s going on, but y’all just do the right thing and the Lord’ll bless you all to get things, to do things that y’all want to do.” So we just kind of been like a happy family.

	W:	What do you think about the election of Obama?



	H:	Oh, I hope he get back in there. I hope he get back in there but you know, I pray about it, I pray about it every day. ‘Cause I mean I don't see where his color should affect nothing, but it’s people that hate him because of his color. And Michelle, she just Michelle. You know, she dress like she want to and she—I saw on the TV where when she went to Target to the store and had on a cap and they put that all out there and talked about the lady how she went. Hey, I don't see nothing wrong with it. She doesn't have to wear a suit because she was the president's wife but you know all of the president's wives will wear little suits and all that kind of stuff, but she's a different person. So, they shouldn’t hold that against her and they shouldn't hate her for that, but I guess there's a lot of haters out there but like I say, you know, you just have to go with the flow ‘cause I think they did a good job, I mean we had presidents before them and hey, they didn't do all that good of a job. But, you know, everybody is everybody.

	W:	That's very true, very true. Do you think that many people kind of discriminated against him because he's Black and what do you think it means for the Black community?





	H:	Oh, I think they really discriminated against him because he was Black. If he'd have been White it wouldn't have been a problem. Look at Bush. Bush the one got us in the trouble that we was in, but you don't hear nothing about Bush. And all this that Obama going through with this money deal and all that kind of thing. The rich man didn't have to pay no tax like the poor Black people. And you know, that's what he try to do, he try to get it equal and so that's why they talk about him and because he Black, yes he Black and you know I love him and I hope he get back in there but they, they don't like him. I heard oh, what his name, man got all, Donald Trump. He was on there this morning just talk about him, just saying things that he shouldn't say. How, we know how Donald Trump got all his money. Certainly he didn't work for all of it, he beat it out of somebody. So you know, I shouldn't be say this on the [points to the recorder] but that's how I feel about stuff like that, ‘cause they got more opportunity than Black people. And they can get more than Black people. And hey, half of this stuff they got they took it from the Black man. ‘Cause I know a man right up there in Starke. He was a old man, and he owned all that land from Brooker back there. And this White man went there and the man was old, he didn't have nobody but his self, and he took all that man land and gave him two hundred and fifty dollars for it. He was sick, he didn't know no better. So that's how they get what they got ‘cause they always beat people. But then in the long run it's going to come back on them. That's why so many of them have problems, because they done beat they way up the ladder ‘cause they always kept the Black man down. And they just can't stand to see Obama where he is. But Obama got some God in him. And he's going to





succeed. I just really believe he's going to get back in there. I don't care how they dislike him, they can't hurt him, ‘cause, you know. I just feel like that.

	W:	Did you see anything in Melrose besides the land example, where they were trying to keep the Black people down instead of helping them rise up?

	H:	Yeah, they did that for a long time, they did that for a long time. Especially during the cane days. You know, you weren't allowed to go in a restaurant in the front door. You had to go to the back door. You weren't allowed to go in there and sit down. You go to the window and get what you want and leave with it. But your money, is the same color the White man's money and it buy the same thing the White man buy but just because of your skin color you was down on the low pole. And I went through that but like I say, all my com up and with my children and my family life and com up, I always was taught treat people like you wish to be treated and when they didn't treat me right I prayed about it. And, you know, like I said that incident in that restaurant where I was work, I was good enough to cook the food back there, but I wasn't good enough to bring it out front to the White man because of my skin color. But I gave him that lesson when I told him, “Hey I cooked that food, I made that coffee, so what's the difference in me pour you up a cup? My hand's not touch the coffee, but I done cook the food back there and you don't know what I did with it.” But you know it's just because of being Black, they don't want the Black to succeed but I thank God cause a lot of the Blacks folks done come up. And they on top. And Obama, he's up there and he's going make it I hope. ‘Cause who they got runn out there now, what, they don't show nothing. Anything you read about them, look at this new candidate. He don't





know half of the time what he talk bout. That other man when he talk, he get all mixed up. He don't know the day or the month of the year. So now, what's you got there? But that man's an educated man, he and his wife. Both of them was from the big prestigious colleges. Cause they worked they way there. They didn't sit down because of they color. And you know, back in the day you couldn't go to universities and things like that. Black people just had to get the kind of learn that they could get, but when they gots where they could go, a lot of them went and I told my children I said, “Hey, if y'all can go to that White school, y'all going.” I said, “You go there and be yourself,” I said, “And get your lesson, you're graduating the top of the class.” ‘Cause, well I ain't going to say it, but a lot of them because of their skin color, they think they're on top of everything and some of them as dumb as a box of rocks. They don't know nothing. But now, the color of their skin what got them to think they more than me, or they can do more than me. But you have to prove yourself, and that's what I told my children, just prove who you are. Prove who you are. Angie graduated with, from high school with all kinds of certificates. When she went to Florida, she didn't have to pay for nothing. She got all the grants, ‘cause she studied. She put her—I said, “Angie, you're smart, you can do it, so do it.” I said, “I don't care what they say, you do it.” Angie graduated with honors, all my grandchildren graduated with honors, ‘cause they was taught to work for what they get ‘cause ain't nobody going give you nothing. And I say you got a strike against you because of your color. Cause you’re Black you got a strike against you. I say, “But you go in that classroom, you do what you supposed to do, you get your lesson, you prove to them that you know just





as much as they know.” I say, “And you'll make it.” And so, that's how I taught them ‘cause that's how my mama and dad taught me. They say, you know, in slavery days and all this kind of stuff but you's just as good as the White man. Say, if you do what you're supposed to do you'll make it, you'll make it. So I always had that in my mind that I could do anything I want to do. And I worked hard but now I'm reaping the labor. I don't have to work hard now. I don't have the biggest house than this ‘cause I don't really care for a bigger house. I'm comfortable, that's all that matters to me, I'm comfortable. What I got is mine, nobody can take it away from me, it's mine. So I don't worry about what nobody else have, but what I want to do, I'm able to do it. I'm able to eat what I want, buy what I want, go where I want. So I don't have to worry about nothing and I just, you know, I'm just a happy person. I might have a skin color, but I'm a happy person. And everybody I meet now, you know since it's got, it's got better but we still got a lot of racist people out there. But it’s better than it used to be when I was growing up. So now the children got a opportunity to do things and make themselves better, but they got to want to do it. They got to work hard for it.

That's what I told all my children and my grandchildren. I said, “Whatever y'all want you got to work hard for it, ‘cause you know they gonna have the White person there. They going look at the White person, Pat.” That's what I told my daughter, I say, “They gonna look at the White supervisors first,” I said, “But you do what you supposed to do. You know that job,” I say, “You work it and see where you go.” So the last time—well she's been the supervisor now for about six years so they gave her the supervisor job over in radiology. So I say, “See that,





Pat,” I say, “You can do it,” I say, “But you gotta let them know that you are just as good as them ‘cause a lot of them like,” I say, “They in those positions but hey, they don't know a apple from a pear.” I mean, ‘cause they put ‘em there cause of their color. ‘Cause they don't have to work as hard as we had to work. ‘Cause you Whites, you could go right on up the ladder. Because I'm Black, I had to get down and dirty. I had to work for what I got, I had to show that I was capable enough to do the job. Whatever I put my hands supposed to do I had to work hard to get where I got because of my color but see, when the Master come back he don't have no color. God don't have no color. Everybody's gonna be the same, so that's what I look at. I dedicate my life to the Lord and I do that and I do the things that I know is right and I just work that way and just, I thank God for my family, my dad and my mom back in the day ‘cause they taught me what I know now and what they taught me I was able to teach my children and the Lord has blessed me to teach my grandchildren, my great grandchildren, and I'm still working on my great great gran. She's a little sweetheart, but I'm still here and I just love to talk with people and tell them, you know, it’s hard but then like I say, you be yourself, you do what you supposed to do. Regardless of how somebody treat you, the Bible said you have to show love and kindness, and if you show love and kindness, somebody else going pick up on it. And so, you know, that's what I always did. I did jobs that I didn't want to do, but I had to raise my family, I had to give them what I couldn’t get, so I took the job, I worked the job to get my kids in better schools, better education where they could support theyselves and I’m proud of every last one them. All four of them, I'm proud of ‘em. Because they





got what they want. They don't have to depend on Mom now for nothing and they raising their families the same way. Angie and her husband, they rais them three boys, Sheri rais her three. Kasey got that one little girl. She just two years old now, but she's still a baby. But he's a good daddy. He didn't marry the mom cause she didn't want to, but he takes care of his baby. We have her more than his mom have her. And so he was brought up if you get a baby out there, that's your baby, you take care of that baby, you supposed to take care of that baby. So she don't have a problem with it, and he don't have a problem with it ‘cause it's his baby, so we love her. And we just take care of her and that's how I raised them. That's how I was taught to do and I brought it up in my children and then they passed it onto they children and we still work with the great grands and the grands.

	W:	Did you or your friends or children have any bad encounters with White people other than the coffee incidents you were speaking about?

	H:	Yeah, they all, you know, when Pat first went to Bradford she said they would never ask her anything, you know, they would just—she was in the class but they would just look over her. Never say nothing to her. So she told me one day about it so I say, “Okay,” I say, “I'm going to the school.” And she said, “Mama, don't come out there and start nothing.” And I say, “I'm not going start nothing but I just going let them now that you are human, that you can study as well as the little White girl sitt by you and nothing going rub off of you on her and nothing you got going take anything away from her.” So I went to the school, I called the principal and told him I needed to come out there and could I come out there and he said





yeah, which he was a nice man. And I told him I said, “Now I put my children in this school so they could get better education ‘cause where they was going they had everything used books, some of the books didn’t even have pages in ‘em,” I said, “So I want my children to have a better education and do better than I did cause I come up in a time where none of this wasn't going on. If you Black, you Black. If you got this, you got it. If nobody, you know, well you don’t really know how it was back in the day but I do.” I said, “But I put my children over here. I don't what y'all to mistreat ‘em ‘cause if you give them the work,” I said, “They will do it.” I said, “You give Pat what she supposed to do and,” I say, “And she'll do it. She'll make A's.” ‘Cause that's the way I brought them up and I said, “I can help her, I can teach her.” And so anyway, she got to where that first year was the rough year for both of ‘em cause that was the first year that Blacks and Whites mixed so the Whites would shun the Blacks like someth was going rub off on ‘em. And it was one of them things but as the years went on down, like I say, she graduated with honors. She was the top of the class. ‘Cause when she would come home with that lesson and her books and things, I'd get right there and we would study together. I said, “’Cause you can make it,” I say, “You put in your mind what you want to do and anything you want to do, with the help of God, you can make it.” So she graduated with honors, she graduated early. Larry graduated early. Larry wasn't nothing but fifteen, she was sixteen when she graduated. He wanted to go in the Army so I said, “Well, if that's what you want to do.” I signed for him to go. He went in there and he stayed for four years and came back out and went back to college. So that gave him a opportunity that he





could go to the college he wanted cause you know, they paid for it. And so, I told Harriet, Harriet didn't want to go to college. She was through with school when she got out of high school, and her daughter was the same way but the Lord blessed them to get good jobs. Harriet got a good job, but she's not work now ‘cause she has some medical problem. And she married a good guy that takes care of her so she don't really have to work. Her daughter, Nakia, she work at the prison. She been there eight years. When she got out of high school she went to Santa Fe ‘cause I wanted her to go to Santa Fe. She come back and told me, “Granny, I just don’t like school I guess I’m like my mama. I don't want to go to school.” I said, “Well, what about the prison system? Gt you a job there, they got good opportunities, they pay good money. You go there and do your job, you can make it.” So she went and took the tests and everything. She got in. So she been there eight years and she don't have no children, she ain't married. She doing her own thing but she's taking care of herself, so that's the good part about it. So I told her, I say, “You can take care of yourself ‘cause you make good money.” So that's Harriet's daughter and her son—he's the one, you know the probation officer—so he has a good job, he can take care of his self and so all the grandchildren is doing good. They doing good and I'm proud of all of them, I tell them that every day, that I'm proud of them. I say, “Angie, I'm so proud of you.” ‘Cause Angie she got all those scholarships over there to UF and soon as she got with Drew she got pregnant [laughter], and had them twins. So she couldn't go to school with the twins, you know, when she had them she had to sit out a little while. I say, “Hey,” I say, “Let's go back over there and see if your





scholarships still stand.” I said, “I can take care of them boys.” I said, “We can put them in the daycare and you go back to school. ‘Cause Angie,” I say, “You’re too smart not to get your degrees.” So anyway we went back over there and they told her, “You can come back to school anytime you want to because all your grants, all your scholarships are still here.” So when the boys got a year old she went back to school. She got her PhD, and she got her other one, and now she got her Master's and she still go over there sometimes to take classes. I say, “What you work for now, Angie, you high as you could go?” She say, “I just like”—‘cause Angie was smart, smart. She's really smart. Now, Sheri would get her lessons but she couldn't compare with Angie ‘cause Angie is just a smart person. Anyway, but Angie she told me one day, “If I can get my foot in the door at Shand's,” she said, “I'm going to the tenth floor.” So she started out work in the ER but she was yet going to school. So she went to the ER and then she went over there to the cancer center. She worked in there and next thing I know she say, “Granny, guess where I got my job at now,” and I say, “Where?” “I'm on the tenth floor, I'm up there with Mr. Goldfather.” And I said, “You go ahead, girl.” But she's in communication ‘cause that's what she took up in school and so she doing communications and stuff up there and one of the guys was working with her, he left so they immediately put her in his job. And she would call me and tell me, “Oh Granny, they gave me the job that,” I can’t think its name, “that he has and I don't know if I can do it.” I say, “You can do anything you want to do.” I said, “Put your mind on what you're doing and you can do it. You go out there,” I say, “You can stay there.” So she's comfortable with it now, but she wasn't too comfortable at





first. But she comfortable with it now, so she doing good, they all doing good. So, I don't have to worry about them. Now, that baby boy of mine, he's liv here he got hurt so, in the Army, so he got his problems but he doing alright. He don't work nowhere but he don't have to work. They takes care of him so he got his problem but he's okay. But, you know it’s just like I say through the struggle it taught me to be myself and be a better person and to love everybody but you didn't— back in the day, it's better now, it's better, ‘cause you know people, they'll come up to you and they'll hug you now and like dad and but back in the day man, you couldn't walk to close to a White person cause they thought someth was going rub off you on them. But now it's not like that and I thank God for it and it's gonna get better. My great grandchildren will reap some of the harvest and you know it'll get better. But through the struggle, it was a struggle but I learned from my parents to be the best that you can be, do what you supposed to do, don't hate nobody for how they hate you. If they hate you, love them. And my daddy used to always tell me, “Girl, you can catch more flies with honey than you can with vinegar. You lay that honey out there and them flies gone come. You be nice to people and they'll treat you right.” So, I learned that and then I guess it just stayed with me and then my children came I taught them the same thing, my grandchildren I was always, you know, teach them and be with them and like I said, we just a big happy family.

And Clayton, down there in Melrose I guess that's how you got in touch with me. He know my family and he know we always been a big happy family. He took that picture of me at the Homecoming at the park and I was the Homecoming Queen three years ago, and he took that picture of me and I had a friend of mine to paint





it, he painted it for me. So, but like I said I had a good life and I'm doing good.



	W:	What was the hardest part of the struggle that you were speaking about?



	H:	The hardest part of the struggle was that the White person thought you wasn't good enough to fit in nowhere. I mean, we had to struggle to get everything we got. When I started going to school, I had to do more than the White person. I had to show myself that I could do it when the other man, the other girl, whoever they just did someth turn it in and you know but if I didn't make a straight A or B then I had to go over it again. So I really had to struggle to get whatever I got.

You know, my education, my learn, whatever, I had to struggle because of my color I wasn't up there with the White person and that was the hard part about it but I learned how to love them and even if they didn't love me I would speak, “How you doing, have a nice day,” and just speak anyway. And down there at the Harvey's store every time I go in there everybody holla, “Good morn,” and I say, “Good morn to all of you,” and you just, they just you know, you show yourself friendly and then you can gain friends but, because of how they treat you, if you, you know, if you kind of get in a shell and like you, you scared to express yourself then they going keep you there. But you let them know that, hey I'm free. I'm Black, but I'm free. I got the same thing you got. I eat the same way you eat. I talk, might not talk as good as you, but I can talk. I can do the same thing you can do. Try me and see won't I do the same thing you can do. So that's how I got through life ‘cause I would tell them, you know I, when I was applying for that job over there, the lady was saying, “Well, we don't know because we got somebody else gonna come.” I said, “Well, take her application, take mine, let us both try for





it. If I come up to your standards you hire me. If I don't, you don't.” So the first job, I didn't get it. They hired a White girl. How long did she work? She didn't even work six months because she wouldn't come to work on time. She wouldn't be there then they called me for the same job. So I went, I told my supervisor there, I say, “Oh, I made it through the door.” I said, “Thank the Lord,” and I just, you know she looked at me, she said, “You always praising the Lord.” I say, “Hey, you start praising the Lord, too, and it will get better for you.” I say, “Because you see, y'all looked over me and hired her, but I got the job, she couldn't handle it.” Too much stress for her she said. ‘Cause she didn't want to wash the people, she didn't want to, you know, when you in that kind of stuff you got to bathe people, you got to take care of their needs because they're sick. Her hands was too good to clean somebody's bottom. I put my gloves on I clean the bottoms it doesn't bother me. But the other girl, she couldn't do it, she couldn't stand, you know, to clean nobody. So she didn't work so I got the job. I worked there ‘til I left and went in private home work. So, like I say, it's just, you know it was a struggle but the struggle got better. You have to do what you have to do and it'll get better but, you know. Oh, I got to go to that.

	W:	Is there anything else that you want to say or any examples you want to give before we conclude the interview?

	H:	Well, no, not really I just, I learned from my parents and I went through everything from my parents how I was taught. I taught my children, I taught my grandchildren and I'm still working with my great grandchildren. I teaches them, I when the little boys they come up here, “Granny, what we going do today?” I say





well, “We gonna spell, we gonna write, we gonna get some lesson done.” And they say, “You always want to have school with us.” And I say, “Well, because when you get to school the other little fella might not know this and you know it, you can do it.” So them little twins we went to Lakeland with ‘em on the spelling bee. Jacobi, that's my favorite. And so he was in the spelling bee ‘cause I had done went through the words with him and I told him, I said, “Don’t get nervous when you get up there,” I say, “When they call a word you just spell it. ‘Cause it'll come natural.” And so he won the spelling bee. And he said, “You know, that was good for you to teach me granny ‘cause see all them other children was getting up there couldn’t spell and I could spell.” I said, “That's right, you can do whatever you want to do. Put your mind to it.” I said, “You can do whatever you want to do.” And so I just love children and I just, you know, that's just me. And like I say, my life came up but, you know, I appreciate where I came from ‘cause it made me a better person. ‘Cause I know I can be as good as I want to be and ain't nobody no better. I love myself and so I ain't going put myself down because you know, the White person don't want to talk to me or don't want to speak to me, hey I'll hold my head up and I walk high and I tell them all of that. I said, “That’s what you have to do.” I say, “You show yourself, show what you can do and when you show what you can do there's going be someone out there gonna latch onto it and they going help you and they gonna help you get where you want to go.” I told Angie that I said, “Get your feet in the door, girl,” I say, “and show ‘em what you can do, and I say, “there’ll be somebody there that'll get you on the top.” And so she on the top right now. And, you know, she doing good and she a young





lady. I think Angie ‘bout thirty. She just turned thirty I think, so she got it made. Her husband, well, he working at the prison. He say he didn't want to sit down but he gets all his benefits from football but he went on up there and he working at the prison. He go to work at four o'clock in the morn, he get off at eleven and he home the rest of the day. So Sheri and all of them doing good so, what can I say. You have to want to do someth. That's what I learned from everything, you got to want it for yourself cause ain't nobody going give you nothing, you got to work for it. And like I say I'm glad that my parents brought me up the way they did. My dad, my mama they didn't let us beg for nothing. If they couldn't give it to us, they said we didn't need it. But they learnt me to work for my children, do my children the same way that they did me and everything going work out find and I can say that I don't have a child that I'm not proud of, I don't have a grandchild that I'm not proud of, I don't have a great grandchild. They young, they com up, but I'm proud of ‘em cause they try. And that's all you can do, you try and do your best and you'll make it. And that's what happened with me.

	W:	[Laughter] Very good. Thank you, so much. [End of Interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, January 26, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 21, 2019