AAHP 134, Lewis; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 134 Henry Lewis

Interviewed by Marna Weston on September 3, 2010 16 minutes | 10 pages





Abstract: In this interview, Henry Lewis talks about his experience growing up in Gainesville and attending the University of Florida in the 1960s. He was a member of the band The Blenders, which first integrated the Gator Growl.



Keywords: University of Florida; Gator Growl; The Blenders; Integration

































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 134

Interviewer: Marna Weston Interviewee: Henry Lewis

Date of Interview: September 3, 2010



	W:	This is Marna Weston with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program at Emerson Alumni Hall during Black Alumni Weekend September 3rd, 2010. I’m speaking to Mr. Henry L. Lewis, an original member of The Blenders, the band that integrated Gator Growl in September 1960. Mr. Lewis, thank you for speaking with me today.

	L:	My pleasure.



	W:	First, what does the “L” stand for?



	L:	Larry or Lawrence, That’s the original name of my family roots from Andrew Jackson Era, the President of the United States of America.

	W:	When and where were you born?



	L:	I was born in Gainesville, Florida in 1941. My mother Mabel, father Tommy Lewis. She was from the Manns family and he was from the Lewis family. And here I am.

	W:	What was your birth date sir? L:	My birth date was 10, 1941.

	W:	Let’s talk about your mom’s family for a second. Who were her mother and father?

	L:	John Charles Manns and Louise Manns. W:	Where were they from?

	L:	They were from Tennessee.



	W:	On your dad’s side, who were his mother and father? L:	It was Laudie Lewis and Tommy Lewis.





	W:	Where were they from?



	L:	They were from the Gainesville area.



	W:	Do you have any memories of your grandparents’ parents? Or know their names?

	L:	Yes, my grandfather was John Charles Manns and then Louise Manns, his wife, my grandma.

	W:	Who was his father?



	L:	His father? I can’t go back that far, but I know how they originated with her family, but not with his.

	W:	Now you mentioned something about Andrew Jackson. What is the connection with your family and with Andrew Jackson?

	L:	My grandmother’s, grandmother’s mother used to work in the house of Andrew Jackson. She got impregnated by him and they had a little baby boy. The boy was turned over to the daughter to raise. She married a gentleman by the name of Lawrence, which was a doctor. They became the Lawrence family. That’s how my family came to be on my mom’s side. The Lawrences.

	W:	When you say turned over to, you’re describing that there was a slave situation.



	L:	Exactly. Yes, this was back in the slavery time. She was a maid in the house at that time. She was just like the lady of the house. In Washington D.C. at the memorial there, that’s her voice speaking telling about the situation of Andrew Jackson and his life. We’d stop in Tennessee and visit quite often at the reunion over there and there’s a lot of history that we found out too about the family.





	W:	Now I’d like to ask you if you could please describe your earliest memories of education. Where did you first go to school?

	L:	I can remember that day. My aunt was here from New York visiting. I was getting ready to go to my first day of school at Williams Elementary on the southeast side of town. I guess it’s near Spring Hill they call it. That’s my first time I went to school. It was very interesting and I learned a lot of good things.

	W:	What was your favorite subject and who was your favorite teacher?



	L:	My favorite teacher was Mrs. Cook. Mrs. Cook was the wife of the principal and at that time I guess that was all okay because she was there. And that was my favorite teacher. My favorite subject at that time is kinda hard to say because all I did was learn everything I could at the time. For me everything was great.

Everything they tried to teach me I thought that was real cool.



	W:	When you left Williams Elementary, where did your next education take place?



Where did you next go to school?



	L:	After that I went to Lincoln High School. I had to walk four miles, past three White schools to get to my school. But we did it. We had a lot of people that used to bug us on the way, especially if you were alone. People of a different race start bugging you about different things, especially when integration came on. They wanted to know what you thought about it. At that time I just really hadn’t heard about it yet. I just said, “Oh I think it’s cool.” Then they started throwing rocks at me and calling me names. I didn’t hold my head down. I just got back at them and they took off running. Then some gentleman came by and got on them about it. I went to Kirby Smith School at the time.





	W:	What year did you graduate from Lincoln High School? L:	1960.

	W:	So the year that the Blenders played Gator Growl, that was the year that you graduated as well?

	L:	Yes.



	W:	What do you remember most about 1960? What pops in your mind about that year?

	L:	That year was an amazing year for me and the group. Because during that time we went places where other people didn’t go or thought they couldn’t go. But we did. We didn’t think that we were doing anything wrong or that—we thought that we could do what we wanted to do as long as it was within the law. For instance, I used to work at the hotel called the University Inn and I used to live there. I used to have a lot of people come to visit the place and see what it was like. It was really integrated. There was no problems there. We had people come from every place to visit there and to stay at the hotel. We had Bobby Griffin and Bobby McKnight, all those guys. They played in the lounge there and it was very interesting.

	W:	Are you talking about the University Inn right here in Gainesville right down 13th Street?

	L:	Right. Right there on 13th Street.



	W:	So in 1960 that place rocked is what you’re trying to tell me?





	L:	It was rocking. It was rocking. And the other place that was a lot fun was the pub downtown Gainesville. Only a few Blacks went there. Me and a few of my friends. We never had problems. It was great.

	W:	Being a musician, you mentioned that opened certain doors for you as far as socialization. Did you ever feel any responsibility in the community having some of these doors open, to advocate on issues like the lunch counter sit-ins or things of that nature?

	L:	We did what we could to help out, but we were so busy at that time just trying to be good citizens ourselves. And hoping that people would look at us and hoped that we were making a good example for them. Because we never got into trouble. We always tried to build up the neighborhoods and we got a lot of respect for that. We were hoping that the young people and the older people would see that there’s more to life than just hanging out.

	W:	Now in the band, were you a vocalist or an instrumentalist? L:	A vocalist.

	W:	Are the pipes still working today? L:	I think so; they’re still working.

	W:	Do you think you could give us just a little taste of something? Anything you want to throw out there?

	L:	[Singing].



	W:	I appreciate that. That’s a good taste. Now who is the artist? Is that an original song from you? Or is there another artist?





	L:	Bobby Blue Bland. Everybody got a hold to that song and just never let it go. Even Little Jake right now, he uses that song. It’s a good song. It says a lot.

	W:	What was so unique or so lasting about Bobby Blue Bland that you and Jake and others were influenced by that music?

	L:	Because he always told a story. He tells a story about life, what you can expect from life and what you can get of life, and what you can actually add to life to make it better for you and everyone. He says it in his song. I’m pretty sure it’s the blues. The blues has been there before I was born and probably here after and it tells a story. It tells a story.

	W:	Would you describe yourself as a blues man?



	L:	A blues man? Yeah, I love it. I love all music really to tell you the truth. I do.



	W:	Who are some of the artists that have influenced you and that you’ve enjoyed throughout your career in music?

	L:		Bobby was first and Ray Charles. Then we had Jackie Wilson. All those guys, they were great.

	W:	Tonight Jake is being honored as our featured entertainment here for the 2010 Black Alumni Weekend. What are your reflections on something like that coming back to the UF campus fifty years after that first show at Gator Growl in 1960?

	L:	I always think it’s better late than never. It’s happening and I think it’s a wonderful thing. Jake had a lot to offer and still has a lot to offer. By doing this, it’s going to bring the city together more. Once it gets out there that he’s back again doing his thing and he’s got a nice band that’s working with him, you can see something





happening out here with that. I see it already and I just got here a few days ago. I can see the people and it’s like it just happened yesterday.

	W:	What makes Jake such a dynamic entertainer in your opinion? L:	First of all, he can scream like a woman.

	W:	[Laughter]



	L:	And people seem to love that. His voice is dynamic and he’s a good entertainer.



He brings people together and I think that’s wonderful.



	W:	Your life in California must have opened up in a wide variety of ways. What are some of things you’ve done since being on the West Coast?

	L:	In [19]67, I took off from here. I moved to Hawaii and we stayed there for many years. In [19]84, I moved to California and I had become an executive chef. In Hawaii I worked for big hotel chains like Island Holidays and Amtrak Resorts as an executive chef. Then I came to California still working with a company out of Hawaii. Then I got a chance to work at the University of Southern California as a chef on campus. I did that for six years. Then I joined the Marriott Corporation as an executive chef in healthcare and then Sodexo took over. I worked with them until I retired two years ago. And before that too I worked at the University of Florida before I worked at the University Inn. I was a crew leader for environmental services before I moved off to Hawaii.

	W:	What is your strongest memory of Gainesville and this area?



	L:	My strongest memory I think is being with Jake and The Blenders. Because we met gentlemen from the University of Florida who became our band. All the band was White and all the singers were Black. But we were like brothers. We traveled





all over the country. We traveled all over and we had a really good time. Nobody ever got into trouble and nobody got into fights. I remember those days very well and that was real good times.

W:  What are some of the things you remember about it that still stick with you today? L:   First of all, the Gator Growl. That was a really big moment. A really big moment.

Just seeing the changes from that time when I was a young man and got to the age in my teens. I saw a great big change in Gainesville. Those were times that I really enjoyed seeing the good things happen that should have been happening a long time ago.

	W:	What are some of those things that should have been happening a long time ago?

	L:	People getting along; different races getting along. People seemed to be really happy when that was starting to happen. I remember coming to the university and knowing that opportunities were there for people after us--because we had got to the age that we were going our way—but kids after us, we saw them coming in and really enjoying it. We were just hoping that they would take the opportunities to make it good for themselves, and their family, and society as a whole.

W:  What are your hopes for the current students of the University of Florida as they move out into the world and they graduate? What sort of things do you hope for them?

L:   First of all, I hope the best. I hope they will take their education very seriously. Do it now. Don’t wait later. Cause when you wait later, sometimes it doesn’t happen.





Do it for yourself, do it for your family, do it for your neighbor, do it for society. Education is very important. It changes the world.

	W:	Mr. Henry Lewis, on behalf of the Sam Proctor Oral History Program here during Black Alumni Weekend at Emerson Hall at the University of Florida I want to thank you so much for taking the time to speak with me and offer this contribution to our oral history archives. We thank you so much and I’d like to close the interview by just giving you an opportunity to make any comment you would like to about the interview or about your hopes for the future or whatever they might be. When you’ve concluded those comments, that will end the interview.

	L:	It’s wonderful to come back to Gainesville and actually see you doing what you’re doing here. Because during the day, you wouldn’t think it would ever happen. But it’s happened and I hope you will keep it up. I hope the young people that see you doing this, I hope it will influence them to do the right thing and use their education to help other people just like you’re doing. I think it’s wonderful. Thank you again.

[End of Interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Anupa Kotipoyina, October 25, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 19, 2019