AAHP 027; Butler; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 027 Linda Butler

African American History Project (AAHP) Interview conducted by Lateasha Johnson on June 3, 2010

1 hour, 13 minutes | 40 pages



Abstract: Linda Butler describes her experiences growing up in Gainesville, Florida, during the era of the Civil Rights Movement. She shares her memories of attending Lincoln High School, and offers reflections on the continued significance of its legacy as a community institution.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County; Education; Lincoln High School; Integration]























































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 027

Interviewee: Linda Butler Interviewer: Lateasha Johnson Date: June 3, 2010



	J:	All right, my name is Lateasha Johnson. I’m interviewing—Ms. or Mrs.? B:	Ms.

	J:	Ms. Linda Butler. My friend in my class, he has an Alvin Butler, do you know of him?

	B:	I have a brother named Alvin, but my nephew name Alvin Butler too. J:	Alvin? Like, is he also doing it, or no?

	B:	He graduated from Florida; my nephew graduated from Florida in—I think [200]9, or [200]8.

	J:	Oh! So it’s definitely not him. Because my friend, he asked me to ask you that, like if you knew—

	B:	His name is Alvin B. Butler. He used to play football for the Gators. Fifty-two, that’s my nephew.

	J:	Oh, okay!



	B:	And my brother, his dad played for the Gators, but he got hurt in the late [19]70s. J:	So you had a lot of family members who went to UF?

	B:	I went there, too. I went to school there, my sister went to school there, and my younger brother went to school at Florida.

	J:	So the whole family—



	B:	Except my older brother, he didn’t go. J:	Oh, what school did he go to?

	B:	Well he didn’t graduate. He went as far as twelfth grade at A.L. Mebane, and then he dropped out. Never went back.





	J:	Oh! I mean, it’s, like, so close! B:	[Laughter] Yeah

	J:	Oh, okay. In my class, we’ve been hearing a lot about Lincoln High, and how it was one of best Black schools as far as academics and sports, and how you guys had etiquette classes. And the thing was, we were hearing about everything secondhand, so through this project I’m able to hear first-hand experience. Like, what was going on, and how the school changed your life, and how the community revolved around the school, and such. So, I guess I wanted to start off the interview with a basic rundown of what kind of values your parents instilled you with, and how was life growing up?

	B:	It was always do your best; to also respect your elders, and all adults, and yourself. And as far as school, it was like your family. Because at that time, the schools was not integrated. And so, a lot of the teachers lived in your neighborhood. So if you got into trouble at school, you got into trouble at home and in school. Because when I was in elementary school, my principal lived in the house almost right in front of me, and most of my teachers lived either a couple of blocks over from me. And then I got to high school. I had one teacher, who was my home room teacher, lived two blocks from me. And then, the principal of the school lived not quite a block from me, because it was more like family. And your principal and your teachers knew your family—your immediate family, and also your extended family. So, it was more of a family-type thing. And you were expected to do your best at all times, and it was a no-nonsense school at Lincoln, because our principle John Dukes, Jr. always said it was a place





where children who wanted to learn could learn, and teachers who could teach taught at Lincoln High School at that time.

	J:	Oh, so it was like—there was no such thing as getting in trouble, because it’s like you would find out—your parents would find out, like, what—?

	B:	Only thing that I remember my—now they have, like, they call it that “Senior Skip Day?” We didn’t have that when I was in school.

	J:	Oh! [Laughter]



	B:	Because I remember, my senior year we decided we was going skip school. We had this meeting—you want to meet on the hill, at the time where the pool was, and now they have houses there—meet on the hill, and on the hill you had a car. You drove to Magnolia Park; that was the beach. And then everybody’s going go. Well, what happened was, a lot of the seniors had girlfriends in tenth grade, eleventh grade, or ninth grade. So when the met on the hill, they came to school, got off the school bus, went on the hill to go. And I decided to not do that, so I didn’t go. So I went on to band rehearsal—I was in marching band—went to band rehearsal, and the person at that time was Jerry C. Miller; he was our band director. And he said, “Where are all your friends?” And I acted like I didn’t know what he was talking about. “Where your friends?” I said, “What are you talking about?” He said, “There are too many absent today; where are the children who should be in the band?” That’s when he started calling names. And I didn’t say nothing, I just shrugged my shoulders. So the very next day, Mr. Dukes got on the intercom—he was the principal—and he said: “The following students are not admitted into class until they get a note from me.” He called every senior who





was absent that day. And, they can’t do it now, but at that time what he did was he took all of the girls who had cut class? They had to spend the next couple of days helping the custodians clean inside. You know, clean the walls and sweep. And all the young men, or the boys, they had to go outside and help pull the weeds, and mow the yard for a couple of days. And then they called the parents and told the parents what had happened. So I was glad I didn’t go, because he didn’t play. So if you did anything wrong, your parents knew immediately.

	J:	So it was more stricter. Because I feel like maybe that’s why, with today’s age, you have a lot of disruption as far as—

	B:	Lot of leeway, yeah.



	J:	—the kids are concerned. And I feel like maybe that’s why back then that wasn’t the case, because you had a strong family-oriented environment. So, that’s pretty cool.

B:  Mmhm. And your parents didn’t bear a lot of nonsense. And like, now, students have too many—I figure, yeah, too many privileges. We was told, you would do this, and that was it. It wasn’t no, “I don’t want to do that.” But you was told you had to do it, and that’s the way it went.

J:  Yeah, because I know, growing up, I heard a lot of teachers—students backtalk teachers, so I’m guessing, like, in that type of environment—

B:   That didn’t happen during our time, mm-mm.



J:  Yeah, because it’s like, your teachers are your parents’ friends, and everyone’s just so—.

B:   And lot of time, some of your teachers would attend the same church you





attended, too, so—. [Laughter] So you went to church and any other places you went, and you saw these same people, so they would make sure your parents knew.

	J:	When did you graduate from Lincoln? B:	[19]68.

	J:	Oh, so—



	B:	I was next to the last class to graduate from there. J:	Yeah, because the last class was [19]69!

	B:	[19]69, uh-huh.



	J:	So wait—so this is something that I was wondering personally: how did—I know you didn’t have to go through it firsthand since you graduated in [19]68, but, you said you were in the band, so most likely you knew people who did have to; so, how was that transaction, going to a previously all-White school?

	B:	A lot of them didn’t like it, because they had to move them out. Like in my thought, for example, I went to Lincoln when they started integrating the schools; my sister went to GHS.

	J:	Which was previously a White school? B:	Mmhm.

	J:	Okay.



	B:	She was in—well she a year younger than I am. She went to GHS. And my brother Alvin went to Howard Bishop; he never went to Lincoln. My sister went to Lincoln one year. So, she left when they integrated Gainesville High School. At that time, when I was at Lincoln, we only had one White child that was in our





school. And that’s because, I guess, the family moved over by what is called A. Quinn Jones now? Moved on that street, and she attended Lincoln. And we had about the one, two—we had two White teachers at that time. And then I will never forget, I was in eleventh grade: we had this English class—lit class—and we were shocked: we had a White intern. And we were studying—I don’t know if you study it now—we had to read this story called The Scarlet Letter. You’ve heard about that. Now, we had to read that. But I guess he—well, he blended in with everybody because we had to read that. And then we had this teacher, she was very, very strict. He was—no, he blended in with everybody, and we got along really well with him.

	J:	So, when your sister went over to— B:	GHS.

	J:	GF—?



	B:	GHS, Gainesville High School.



J:  GHS—Gainesville, oh okay. Because I don’t know none of the, like, high schools here! [Laughter]

	B:	I’m sorry! [Laughter]



J:   But when she went over there, was it hostility? Did she—was it hard for her to— did she just stick with the Black crowds?

B:  Well, it wasn’t that many Blacks over there, so she had some White friends. And then, when they had—she had some kind of, they had different clubs over there. She was the only Black in quite a few clubs for a while. And the same with my— well, it was a little better when my brother went over there, because he came





from Howard Bishop Middle School to the high school. Because he played football; he got to meet more people than she did. Because it was like, I was in the band at Lincoln; she was in the chorus at Gainesville High School; my brother played football at Gainesville High School.

	J:	So everybody had activities. Was that a common thing for a lot of the kids to have extracurricular activities?

	B:	Right. Mmhm.



	J:	So,what impact did the band have at Lincoln High when you were going there? B:	At that time, that was the band to be in around the state of Florida. It’s kind of like

FAMU is now. Whenever we had the Homecoming parade—we had a Homecoming parade, and with the Homecoming wa had the queen, like the Ms. Lincoln, Ms.Terrier; and Ms. Junior High and [inaudible 9:36]. They had a parade. And then, the community came out to see the band. And, like, the band festivals; we always have superior ratings and all in the band. Because the band director, Mr. Miller, he was another no-nonsense kind of person, also. And before he got married—he was my neighbor too. Lived down the street. And then after he moved, the lady he ended up marrying, she lived right down the street from me.

And then—so I knew both of them real well. So then, before he married her, when I was a little girl he had dated my aunt, so it was like—I kind of like knew him.

	J:	God! Like you really, really knew him.



	B:	Yeah, I knew him. And we always called him “Slick.” But like I say, he was a no- nonsense kind of person.





	J:	Did you—it was just band? Were you involved in any other activities?



	B:	I was in the band, I was in the—I took business courses; I was a member of FBLA, Future Business Leaders of America.

	J:	I was too. [Laughter]



	B:	And so I took typing, and shorthand, and bookkeeping; and we had a club called FBLA Club where we met and had club days.

	J:	Oh, okay. What was your favorite subject at Lincoln? B:	English. I liked reading literature.

	J:	Oh, okay. I didn’t like Shakespeare. It was too confusing for me.



	B:	I didn’t like Shakespeare, but I always liked to read; I can still enjoy reading.



	J:	I always liked to analyze it. I remember we were supposed to read The Scarlet Letter—

	B:	That’s an excellent book! I still remember that. J:	But I didn’t get around to it. [Laughter]

	B:	It’s a story about during—well, a long time ago. Where, lady’ name’s Hester Prynne; because she committed adultery, she had to wear this “A” with her all the time. And it’s one of the details I remember. And again, then we had this intern.

And he made it really interesting. We had to read a chapter a night, and we would come back to school and we had to discuss it in the whole class. And he has interacting the story. So that’s why I really remember that.

	J:	So it was interesting. Oh, okay, because I wish I would have read it, I didn’t know it was—

	B:	Yeah, you need to read it if you get a chance; it’s interesting.





	J:	Yeah I should; matter of fact, I should just read it after I finish my summer school, because I’m going have a little break there. What does Lincoln mean to you?

Like, how did it impact your life?



B:  It made me more understanding of other ethnic groups. Because, like I said, it was a close family. And then when I left Lincoln and went—I went to D.C. for a while; worked for the FBI for a while.

J:   Well, what did you with the FBI? That’s—



	B:	Well again, that was crazy how I got involved. We had what’s called career day, and then, it was like six of us. We just went in there, you’d go into different rooms to different careers. And that’s when the—we was just back there being silly.

Went in there and asked questions, and everything. Then next thing we knew, they came to the school and took a spelling test; I passed the spelling test. The six of us passed. And then they did a background test, which we didn’t know, on us. They came to your neighborhood and all with the little suits on, the FBI people, and check on your character, and teachers, and everything. And then, right before we got ready to leave for our senior trip going to Bahamas—our class was going—I got this letter saying I had been accepted to FBI. So when I got—we went to D.C.; I worked Justice Department for a while but, I didn’t like

D.C. It was, I guess I had this picture in my mind that the capital was going be real, real white, and it’s going be real clean.To me, D.C. was dirty and I just didn’t like it! But I mean, I liked the work. But one thing I hated about it was, well, six of us, and three of us split the rent, other three paid for the food. But then, we had this one girl who had a boyfriend that was staying there, and we had to rotate





beds, they would put you on the floor; I couldn’t see that and, paying my money, stay there.

	J:	Oh! [Laughter]



	B:	But the work was fine. But then I decided to come back home and go to school when—we moved out to another apartment; so we had three in each apartment, instead of having six of us in an apartment, around the corner from a mental hospital. And that was kind of scary, too. The mental hospital was called St.

Mary’s. But the worst was I came from work one day, and this lady said, just this calm, “They broke into that apartment right down from you all.” And our eyes got big as the moon. And I say, “They did?” She say, “Yes. I held the door open; I didn't know they was breaking in.” She held the door open for the people to take all the people’ furniture out. So, I decided to come back home and go to school, because I was used to—I was sheltered; I’d never been away from home, my mom and like that. So, I came back home and went to school, and one of the other five went to New York for a while; the rest came back home and went to school. And so, then that's when I decided I was going to go to school; I wasn’t going to leave home until I was actually ready to go, then leave to go on from there.

	J:	So how was, like—what year was it when you went to UF? B:	19—I went, 1969? 1970.

	J:	1970?



	B:	Uh-huh. I was there during a time when they didn’t have many Blacks. In fact, the blacks walked out from the University of Florida when I was there, but I didn’t. I





stayed in class. Maybe about two hundred and fifty Blacks on the whole campus when I was there. You may have heard about Vince Kendrick from Miami?

	J:	Oh, no.



	B:	Okay, he played football for the Gators, but he was there when I was there. And Nat Moore, who’s now with Sun Channel; he’s from Miami. Nat—you ever heard of Nat Moore? Okay, he's on when you turn the TV on for the sports. He’s this newscaster for Sunshine Station; he was a—he played football for the Gators at that time. And Willie Jackson's father played—they were old now—but they played at that time, too, for the Gators.

	J:	So because you were really, really the minority at UF, how did that affect you?



Was it good, bad—?



	B:	It was horrid. Because you didn’t see hardly any Blacks in the class. I had one Black in my class the whole time I was out there. And he thought I was flirting with him; I was happy to see a Black face! [Laughter] I remember I said hi to him and he thought I was flirting. You know, I didn’t say anything else to him. It was— so I stayed at home, I didn’t stay on campus. I stayed at my mom's house. And I went to class, and a part-time job, and that was it.

	J:	Did it affect you in any way academically, only being able to see White faces all around you?

	B:	No, because I just tuned them out. I didn’t even—I just ignored them. J:	I need to be more like you!

	B:	I met a few Whites that I kind of bonded with. In fact, one White girl and I, we bonded in the class, and one day I brought her home lunchtime and we ate lunch





at my house, and stuff like that. But it was hard, you know? You didn’t have any Black role models or any Blacks in your class.

	J:	Because I know, for me, out of my three years being at UF, I’ve only had one Black professor. And I remember the first day he walked in the classroom; I was looking, and he just slams his briefcase on the desk, and I'm looking at him like who is this? And then he just starts talking, everyone gets really quiet; I'm like, “I have a Black professor?” [Laughter]

	B:	Well see, I never had one while I was at Florida. Who was your Black professor? J:	Um—Oh my God, Samuel—he’s a judge now. But he didn’t go to—he’s from

South Carolina.



	B:	Uh-huh. Oh.



	J:	So, Professor Stafford. Samuel Stafford. But he’s a judge over here now. So.



	B:	Oh, I’ve heard about him a little. But, what’s weird now, a lot of people at work now think I’m weird. They say, “How you know everybody?” I say, “Well I grew up in Gainesville,” but now, Stephan Mickle, who’s a judge? We had career service day here. I got him to come and speak to the students. Well his stepmom was my business teacher and my homeroom teacher. So, you know, I had a lot of connections, and I got him to come when we had that; and then the chief of police, who’s now in Alachua, we’re cousins.

	J:	So, you just know everybody. B:	Yeah.

	J:	That’s very cool. Oh okay. How did you view segregation when you were growing up? Was it something negative, or was it a norm?





	B:	It was a norm; I didn’t really think about it when I was growing up, because that’s all we knew. Except for when—time to go in the store. I'll never forget my youngest brother, we went—at that time, they used to call it Woolworth’s downtown—and he couldn’t understand why—he wanted a sandwich. My mom was trying to explain to him he couldn’t have a sandwich. I’ll never forget it, he couldn’t have the sandwich, and he didn’t understand because this little White boy was sitting on the stool and he was eating. He said, “But mommy!” And my momma say, “You can't have it.” And then she had to call him aside and explain to him that no, that was a no-no. Up until then, I had never even really thought about it.

	J:	So was it a racist vibe going on?



	B:	Mmhm. Well we knew—actually the students, the children really didn’t know about it, but the parents knew there were certain things you couldn’t, places you could and could not go and say things. But see, we didn’t—I didn’t know nothing about it, because I had never experienced that until we went in the store one day and he wanted the sandwich.

	J:	And he couldn't have it. B:	Mm-mm.

	J:	So, how old were you when that happened?



	B:	I must’ve been, let’s see—because Alvin is, I think, five years younger than me?



Must’ve been about in the fifth grade, or fourth grade.



	J:	So, your parents tried to shelter you from segregation and racism and stuff?



	B:	Yes, I guess, too, because see, in my family, it’s like—even before the integration





stuff? I guess my family, my momma’s dad, their ancestors came from Indians. And on my dad’s side, before it was acceptable to intermarry, I have a second cousin who’s married to an Asian. My uncle was so funny; they lived in Palmetto, and he was bringing his wife—because he had been in the Service—bringing his wife home, and his dad say, “She can't stay here, because if she come here they'll—" because he was a big farmer in Palmetto—he saying, "they'll burn my house down. Now, you can stay here. She have to get a hotel somewhere, she cannot stay here". And that's when I realized—because I’d never even thought about it.

	J:	You didn’t think about it because it was like, you lived in a Black community, so it wasn’t any Whites coming in, so you didn't realize their treatment?

	B:	Only Whites you saw, they was coming to collect insurance money or something like that. Other than that, you didn't see them; they didn't come in your community.

	J:	So you were really segregated from the White population. B:	Mmhm.

	J:	So you didn’t start interacting with Whites until you went to D.C., or when you went to UF? Because I heard D.C. has a large Black population.

	B:	But see, when I worked in D.C., most of them were White that I worked with. And when I came to UF, like I say, there were hardly any Blacks on campus to connect with.

	J:	With your parents, did they ever tell you or did you ever see of any—like, besides the incident with the sandwich, and the intermarriage thing? Did they ever tell





you, or did you ever witness any racism that was towards them, or segregation?



	B:	Mm-mm, no.



	J:	So they really, really—. B:	Kept us sheltered.

	J:	Yeah, because that’s one of the things that I was reading about, was like how a lot of the Black parents were really good at sheltering their kids from segregation. So, when you was at school at Lincoln, did you realize that, did it ever cross your mind that the school materials, or you guys probably weren’t as well-funded as White schools?

	B:	No, because the teachers went that—and I’m thinking about it now—that extra mile. Even though the books were not brand new books, they were always doing things for learning. I had this one teacher, I'll never forget him. His name was Robert McCall. I called him a walking encyclopedia. He would walk in the classroom; he never had any papers or books in front of him. He would come in, and he’d do the roll from memory. The first year I taught kindergarten, I got on that too, but from him. He would come in, and he was, he’d do attendance. He would call the names without even looking on the paper, and he would have one student to write down who’s absent. He would say, for example, “Adams. Allen.” Blah blah. You know, going by last name? And the person wasn't there, write their name down. And that’s how he would do attendance. And say someone came in the room while he was doing attendance, and speak to him, he'll, “Excuse me, class. Continue whatever you’re doing.” The time they would leave, he say, “What’d I say last?” If he was giving a lecture or whatever he was doing,





pick it right back up.



	J:	So he had a snap memory!



	B:	The only thing about it was, found out later that he became a alcoholic. And that kind of hurt him, and he end up dying. He had a memory—you never saw him with a book in front of him. But he was my history teacher, and I started liking history because of him.

J:  So as far as the books go, because the teachers were hands-on, it wasn’t—you went to the books, but it was more so like you were gaining knowledge from the teachers.

B:  Yeah, then you experienced stuff, like for example, we was talking about math. You might look at the book and see something, like, your homework was out of the book; but as far as doing the problems, you went to the blackboard and did that. They had things they showed you in the classroom how to do it.

	J:	Okay, so everything was hands-on. So if someone didn't understand, was it like a afterschool tutoring?

	B:	We didn't have a tutor. What happened was if you didn't finish your work, there wasn't any if and and about it; you stayed after school and you get your work finished.

	J:	So, teachers dedicated time to staying after school and working with the kids. B:	Yes, and they didn't get paid for that, either.

	J:	So it was a sense of a community, like, “We’re going to help our children go on.” [Loudspeaker interrupts]

	B:	They going bowling, the A/B students going bowling today.





	J:	Oh, okay. Wait, who’s going bowling? B:	The A/B students, who had A's and B's.

	J:	Oh, As and Bs. Well, my teacher, we used to have a rib thing. Like, he used to cook ribs and rice, and give it to all the A and B students. So.

	B:	Mmhm. That’s how, the head resource teacher was talking on the mic. But it was different then; they didn't get paid that much, I understand. My aunt is a retired

P.E. teacher from Bradford County. They didn't pay that much. But, they really cared, and you could feel that caring in them. I'll never forget, I had this one teacher: at the time I didn't like her, nobody really liked her, because we taught she was really mean. In third grade, we had every day what was called “inspection.” I hated that! You had to stand up in a straight line, the girls in line, the boys in line; and she would check. If you didn't have a bow in your head, take the tissue paper and she would make a bow and put it in your hair. And then, like your fingernails? You could not wear fingernail polish. If your fingernails were not cut, she would clip them and make sure they were clean. I thought that was so silly, but that was actually good hygiene, make sure everything was nice and clean and everything. They would take real care, they really cared about you.

	J:	Yeah, it was just like a sense of teaching you or disciplining you. When did you realize the things she was doing was because she cared and necessarily because she was trying to be mean?

	B:	Not until I was much older. You know, I just thought she was being mean. That’s like my English teacher, eleventh grade; I'll never forget her. Ruby Washington. We all thought she was mean. But, when I got to college I appreciated her,





because when she gave you a test, it wasn't like—even with The Scarlet Letter, she wouldn't say, “Who was the author?” She would ask you stuff that you could not take the book the night before and just scan. Because she may say, for example, you read something, “Why was So-and-so sitting in the brown rocking chair?” So I mean, you had to read the whole book to find out why. But like, details and stuff. It made me a better person; when I went to college, I was able to do that.

	J:	Yeah, because a lot of situations now, the schools don't prepare students to go to college. So by her doing that, you were able to gain some type of knowledge as far as how to study and go about remembering details.

	B:	Yeah. Because she never gave multiple choice questions, either. All hers was essay. That was the only class that I had that was like that. When you went to her class to take a test? And then, I’ll never forget the first word I had to learn during her class, you had to go on Mondays, and you had to come to school with a word that you did not know. You had to write it down, write the part of the speech, and a definition, and a sentence. Get before the class on Monday, and everybody had to sit, and—“elucidate,” I’ll never forget that word, elucidate. To explain; that was the first word I did in the class. And on Fridays, your spelling test: you never knew what the word was going be, because everybody's word on Tuesday was list on the board, and those were the words—she would select words from that word list for your spelling.

	J:	So, you had to know everything, and you had to know how to spell every single word.





	B:	Yeah. And the part of speech, because you had to be able to not only spell it, be able to make a sentence. And so, I appreciate her now, but then I would say, “That’s a mean old lady!” You had to really study in her class. You couldn’t go in there and, you know, just go through.

	J:	I know you were saying everybody in the community basically knew each other. But, in what other ways did the community come together? For instance, football, or like you said, the band or something.

	B:	We did football, we did band. And on May Day, then we’d do the flagpole—plait the maypole. The parents come out to that, and they had carnivals.

	J:	They had what?



	B:	Carnivals.



	J:	Oh, carnivals. Oh, okay, cool. So, for the football games, was it like a big turnout? Because I heard you guys’ football team was really good.

	B:	Yes, we had a good football team, yes.



	J:	And like, for the band, what Mr. Weston was telling us, and what you was telling me, that it was one of the best bands. And it had a lot of good music. He compared it to FAMU.

	B:	FAMU, uh-huh.



	J:	He told us that people would come from different parts of Florida to see you guys play.

	B:	Mmhm. And one of our coaches—he’s retired now, Jesse Heard—he used to play for FAMU, the Rattlers. And then he had gone on, played professional football ‘til he got hurt. And he came back and became the coach at Lincoln. He





was honored at FAMU about two weeks ago.



	J:	So you guys had a lot of football players that either went on to professionals or college level.

	B:	Mmhm. Because we had Michael Patrick, who played professional football also.



He passed about two months ago now. He’s inducted into, we have a Lincoln High School Alumni Association with Albert White, he's the president. He was inducted in—anyway, he was recognized with that. We’ve had several Lincolnians to go on to professional football.

	J:	Do you know Albert White?



	B:	Yes, I know him real well. In fact, his wife come here and volunteer here on Wednesdays in the kindergarten classroom.

	J:	Oh, okay.



	B:	But I knew Ora from my sister. When she first got out of high school, she decided she wanted to work instead of go to college. And she worked at the food stamp office. And so, she meet Ora there.

	J:	So everybody knows everybody, basically. B:	Yeah, just about.

	J:	So, when Lincoln closed down—or, when you first heard Lincoln was closing down, how did you feel?

	B:	Really upset. But my younger brother, at that time had gone, he was at Gainesville High School; he left school and was picketing and stuff, and they little signs and everything and picket. I didn't do that, but I really upset, too. Even though I had graduated by that time, I didn't like it either, because I was





wondering what was going to happen to all my friends, siblings, and all. I just didn't like it. And because we didn’t know what was going to happen; not knowing was the part that bothered me, too.

	J:	So when you said, “not knowing,” was it like not knowing as far as what was going to happen when they went over to the other schools?

	B:	Other school, didn’t know what to expect or anything. Because at Lincoln, you knew the teachers; where you go into a situation where you don't know anybody. You'll have different children, you don't even know; you don't know any of the teachers, you don't know any of the administrators, anything.

	J:	So it’s like you being snatched from your family, basically, and thrown into a strange—.

	B:	Yes, it’s not like a little bit, the whole thing was going be new to you. Your friends, got to make new friends. And then like before, most of the children at Lincoln who lived in town, they walked to school or rode a bus. Maybe it was like five minutes to ride the bus. Wherein, when you went to Gainesville High School, GHS, you had to go way on the other side of town.

	J:	Oh. So, that must have been inconvenient, then.



	B:	Yes, and see, you got a lot of parents at that time who lived at Lincoln; the majority of them didn't have cars, so they could just walk to the school.

	J:	Yeah. So it’s like, now have to catch this long bus ride. What were some of the— you say your sister went to GHS. So—

	B:	My mom transported her. Because see, what she had to do was, I went to Lincoln. I had to go to A. Quinn Jones for the bus stop. I had to be there at a





certain time. She had to take my sister to GHS a certain time, and my brother went to Howard. So, she had to make three stops. So finally, it got so congested, me and her decided that we would walk from to her house to my bus stop, and my sister when she got her license, let her drive the car and drop my brother off and she kept the car.

	J:	Oh, okay.



	B:	It was just too much to go to three different places. And like I say, I had to be there by seven-thirty, one had to be to school at seven-fifteen, and one by seven o’clock.

	J:	Yeah, so it was just like—.



	B:	Yeah, inconvenient. Yeah, and with traffic, it would cause us to be late.



	J:	Now that desegregation has happened or whatnot, do you feel as if—like, a lot of people say that, as far as programs, like Affirmative Action and stuff, they say that Black kids today shouldn’t have Affirmative Action-type programs—or not even just Black kids, but minorities, period, shouldn’t be given an edge. So, do you feel like students today, being that we didn't go through segregation or slavery, anything like that, that's just way after our time or whatnot. So, do you feels as if—how can I say this? Do you feel as though Jim Crow has left a scar that still affects Black children today?

	B:	In some aspects I do, in that a lot of people younger than I am’ generation take things for granted. Wherein, we know different. For example, riding the bus to school: well, we had, unless your parents had a car, you had to walk to school. Wasn't no riding the bus. Not only that, in different classes; today, a lot of





students, where they get special programs? When we were coming along, even with reading, it wasn't like because you can't read you was in this group. And the same classroom with reading. The teachers found a way to help everybody, wherein now they’re saying that you have to provide the 504. Know what that is, 504?

	J:	No.



	B:	Well, okay. That's a program for children who think they need more time—for example, testing: they need more time to take a test now. When we were coming along, everyone had the same amount. And you were expected to do that. I think now, in some aspect, the children are not expected. In the sense, “You can't do this, so you have this provision made for you.” When we was coming along, everybody had the same expectations. It didn't matter if you couldn't read; you was still expected to sit there and listen, and follow directions, and do the best you could. Now, they have all kind of excuses why “I couldn't finish the test because I needed more time,” “I couldn't do so-and-so because I need medication.” And my pet peeve now is too many children being medicated. On Ritalin and stuff. I mean because I know some children do need it, because I've been in cases with some children who, if they don't have that medication, they in trouble. But then, when we were coming along, there was no medication. The parents did their job at home with the children, told them what they expected of them and what’s going happen if they did not follow through. Where now, even the little kindergarteners, they'll tell you, “I can't do good today, I haven’t had my medicine today.” And the first thing I want to say to them is, “What you mean you





haven’t had your medicine?” “I haven’t had my good pill to make me be good today.” And see, they are instilling it in the children that they have to have this medication in order to—but that's not life.

	J:	So you feel like the way it is now is kind of hurting Black children, or minorities, period.

	B:	They’re dependent on a pill to—. And I think that, I’m going to say that there are some children who really do need it, but then you also have parents who will ask you to fill out forms so that their child can get medication so they can get extra money. I found out that at SSI, and I started refusing to fill it out because I said, “That doesn't make sense. Why would you want to medicate your child if the child actually don’t really need it?” But if you fill the form out, they get extra money.

	J:	So, like a welfare program and stuff like that?



	B:	Well, it was called SSI. Yes, they get extra money and what was happening was sometimes the parents would come—and they won't come to the parent meetings, but they'll come and want you to fill out the form saying their child, say, “Susan needs to be medicated because Susie can't sit still, can't do this,” whatever. That way, they can get extra money. I had one parent telling me that, and I said, “Your child don’t need that.” She said, “But she can't speak well.” I saiy, "”But that's got nothing to do with that.” But she kept coming, she came to me, but I would not fill it out. Another teacher wouldn’t do it. She wanted that extra money.

	J:	So you feel like parents today, they’re making their kids become dependent instead of independent.





	B:	On the medication, mmhm. Not all of them, but a lot of them. Not all of them. Like I say, there some children who actually need it, and some do not. I had a friend, a teacher—she's White—used to work with me here. Her son was on Ritalin. He got huge, gained a lot of weight and all, and after a while she just took him off of it. She got it for him because he could not sit still, but some children just don't sit still.

	J:	Yeah. Well I have yet to meet a kid who is always going to be sitting down and quiet. So as far as parent involvement—because from what you tell me, it seems like your parents, as well as the majority if not all the parents in your community during that point in time, were extremely involved in their kids’ lives.

	B:	And the ones that had to work and could not come to the PTA meetings, somebody else in their family came. Because I know even when going home from school, my mom—she didn’t work until I got in the fifth grade, my sister was in fourth grade, and my brother was second. My aunt lived next door. So when we came home from school, it was my aunt there when she wasn’t there, so it was either my mom or aunt there all the time. So when we came home from school, you got a snack and you did homework. If you didn’t have homework, she gave something to do. She gave you some math problems to do, or something to read. In the summer time, it was no outside playing. At that time we had the all- Black library, it was called Carvers library. Every day, you had to go to the library and check out three or four books. And you read that book, and the next day you went and got more books. And you read. It wasn’t like you got in front of the TV and watched TV, went outside to play all the time. I look at children now: a lot of





them, they on the computer, and parents are not even paying attention to what they doing on the computer. Or they outside playing. They’re not studying. When they go home, a lot of time you see them going home—backpack? No backpack, no books, no nothing.

	J:	So it’s like parents today, some parents today, aren’t really involved in their kids’ lives.

	B:	They’re not.



J:  At all. Like, because you’re an elementary school teacher, besides the fact that some kids may not even come to school prepared, what other examples do you have of how parents today aren’t really involved?

	B:	Okay. Well for example, right now I'm doing the home-school liaison. If the child is absent, I send a letter home. I go on the computer, and if the child has been absent for three consecutive days, I have letters that I send out with their names. Like this for example: I have the school, the date, teacher’s name, and the child’s name; how many days they been absent, and then days been tardy. And it’ll say detention, like if it’s in-school suspension, I put how many days they been there. If they have excused absences, like the child was out sick and the parents send a letter in; how many of those I have of the parent saying the child went to the doctor; how many doctor’s notes I have. And then if it was an unexcused tardy, how many of that I have. Sometimes, if they be tardy, and they had a doctor’s appointment, I can go in there and change that it was because of the doctor’s appointment. And I put this in there so that the parent cannot say, “Well, I didn’t know.” Also, they are told that they can write up to six letters per semester for





being excused, but as far as doctor letters, doesn’t matter how many. But parent notes, I keep a documentation of all of them. And then, when the children are not here, they are not only missing out on what is happening at the school; but if the parents don't call the teachers to find out what’s going on—like, sometimes we have parent meetings—if the parents don’t come, they can’t say, “But I don’t know.” Because like my job, I also go—if the parent don’t have a car, student have a doctor’s appointment, they let me know ahead of time, I take them to the appointment. I’ve had one parent who had a child—it was a grandmother who had custody of her grandchildren: she had one in Head Start, and one in kindergarten I think, and one in second. But she didn’t have a car, so she had to take the child to get a shot in kindergarten. So I took the child out. She made the appointment, and she called me, and I carried her to the doctor’s appointment and waited for her at the health department. Brought her back. So, I can do stuff like that: take them to appointments like that. And then, if a parent—say if a child is ill, and the parents don't have a car, I can take the child home. Any of the parents need food, I say we have some emergency food here, plus I have a book that I can share with parents: different agencies that also provide food, and also for their light bill and gas and all that kind of stuff.

	J:	You seem like you’re really, really committed to your job. So, do you feel like that is a result of the impact your community had on you when you were growing up?

	B:	It helped me to be able to truly to help others. It just those misfortunes I know, not only with food; even when I was in the classroom, if I had a parent, I knew a parent who was working and couldn’t come to parent meetings? Because I was





always saying, like, every week I would send a folder saying, “Ms. Brown, Joe is having problems in whatever,” or “Joe’s doing really well.” The parent couldn’t come because of their job schedule, I would give them my home number, which is unlisted. And they could call me, and we could talk about it on the phone. So that way, they can’t say, “Well, I didn’t know.” Because I had one parent one year when I taught kindergarten, I never meet her the whole year. That’s only time I had one parent I never met. And so, the next year—well, back it up: she would always sign his folder, send it back. And then, I was telling her he’s working below grade level, what she needed to do with him. She would just sign and send it back. So, a little before school was out, she called me at school, want to know if he was going to be promoted to first grade. And I said to her, “Well he needs, Bruce needs to attend summer school, and depending on whether he pass the test in summer school, he go to first grade.” So she said okay. She sent him to summer school, and the next year—he went on to first grade; and I had still not met Ms. Alberta. So, another child had missed the school bus. So, the White teacher was scared to go into this neighborhood. I say, “I go with you.” So I got in my car, and we drove this other little girl home. She say, “But Ms. Alberta’s my babysitter.” So I went and knocked on the door; she came out. And so, she showed me she was in charge of the child. The child' mother was at work. So I had her to sign—well, she signed, and I said “Ms. Alberta! I’m Ms. Butler, I taught your son Bruce last year. I'm so happy to meet you.” She look at me real funny.

You see, all last year, the year before, I had never meet her. I’d gotten notes from her when she had signed the folder, but as far as meeting, she had never





met.



	J:	And her kid was in, like—that's really weird, because usually when it’s your child’s first year in school, the parents are really involved because—

	B:	Well, we found that more—used to be that with Head Start, we used to require the parents be involved. But they’ve gotten lax now; lot of the Head Start parents are not even as supportive as they used to be. Because when I used to work in the Head Start during the summer, and the parents, if they did not attend meetings, then the child was dismissed from the program. Well, now they’re not, and a lot of times now—I know last school term, they had a parent meeting; I think they had like three parents. And we had like five centers here, to show up. Now, they having like food or something, they'll show up. And that’s really bad when it’s your child, and in order for me to come, you have to feed me. I mean, that's just how some parents are.

	J:	As far as the Civil Rights Movement, were you or any of your siblings, or your friends involved? Because I know Mr. Weston was telling us about, it was a boycott to keep Lincoln open.

	B:	Well, I kept going to school. By the time they went on that, I was in college. But my brother—the one who went to Gainesville High School and played football for Gainesville High School, and went to University of Florida—he had a little sign because he had some friends who had attended Lincoln. But he had never attended Lincoln. But so, he carried little signs and all. I went to the meetings and all, but I didn’t actually boycott it, but I went to the meetings they had.

	J:	So, with the boycotts, were like big boycotts, or like a medium size?





	B:	It was kind of, about medium size. But then, you had a lot of parents involved, but then it was a few that we thought were really into trying to help. In time, they them a job; a little sad, they stopped being really concerned. What happened was, say—it was this one man in particular: he was up to the front about he didn’t want it closed, and how they was being unfair to the Blacks and all. So, someone called him downtown, gave him a high-paying job? Didn’t hear from him anymore.

	J:	So, it was like they were bribing?



	B:	You grease my hand so I can hush. Kind of like that.



	J:	So, that’s how it was with a lot of people? Like, they just started passing out jobs to satisfy the community? And it was like, “Okay, well”—.

	B:	To select people.



	J:	Oh, okay. That’s a smart tactic. B:	Yeah.

	L:	What is your feelings towards why? Because on what Mr. Weston was telling us, all of the Black high schools were closed down or downgraded to middle school.s And what was your feeling about why all of the sudden—not you, but like, your siblings and your friends had to go to all-White schools? Did you ever think, what was the reason why White schools, coming there?

	B:	Yeah, at that point, I was upset because they closed Lincoln, they made that into Santa Fe Community College southside campus. Southeast campus; Lincoln High School became Santa Fe southeast campus. And where the parking lot now of—used to be AGH, over on University Avenue? That building was Santa Fe





downtown. It was the north campus. And I think it was, you close the school down, and then Santa Fe Community College, they change everything around. Then they went back around, and now it’s a middle school. But, I was upset because the Whites did not want to come over, so they closed it. The same with here; when I first came to this school, it was like half and half. They opened up an elementary on the west side of town, and carried all the White population who was zoned here over there. So, this school is predominantly Black; we have maybe six Whites in the whole school, maybe. I know there’s two in first grade.

We have mixed students here, and a few Asian, but overall White, maybe six total.

	J:	So like, with zoning—I don’t really understand zoning too much, but like, with zoning, is that a way—?

	B:	They claim the neighborhood was not really a neighborhood. What has happened is, like in this area for example: the children who come attend this school are the children who live across the street in apartments or projects. And they’ll go on—the ones go on 9th Street, they walk to school here. And up from 15th to 28th, about 28th Avenue, they walk to school. And then, they cross 39th Avenue to Eden Park—you’ve probably seen that over there. They walk over here. And then further ahead, in what’s called Louis Place, they walk. And we have no school buses to come here bringing in children here anymore. And when I first came here, five school buses—when I first came to this school, they had children from Copeland; they had children from the northwest side, it was Springtree, Eden Park—these children who were Whites down off 39th Avenue.





So now, we have no school buses coming here.



	J:	So, with zoning, do you feel like—?



	B:	It’s not done fairly. To me, it’s a way of putting all the poor together, and all the upper class together.

	J:	For me, the way I view zoning, I feel like it’s another segregation tactic. B:	It is.

	J:	Because at my high school, we only had one White boy in our school. But it was like, we accepted him because he had been with us since elementary. So, it wasn’t really a big deal. And then, all of the sudden, my tenth grade year another White boy came, and he had red hair and freckles, and everybody was just—like the Spanish kids, we had a couple of Spanish and it was Blacks—and we were just staring at him, and he transferred out like two days later.

	B:	Mmhm. He felt uncomfortable.



	J:	Yeah. I think a lot of people felt uncomfortable, because it was like, yeah, we had James who was White, but we was with him since elementary, so it wasn’t that big of a deal. Then all of the sudden, there is this new White person. And everybody is just staring, and you didn’t really know what to think. So.

	B:	Because, you know, if you just got used to—and something new, you do kind of wonder. “Well, what”—you kind of wonder.

	J:	Because that's why I was asking you how did your sister feel, or other people may have felt, when she had to attend the White schools.

	B:	With her, she outgoing, so with her it probably didn’t make a difference. My brother, he’s more stand back, he don’t say very much. Up until I got into





eleventh grade, I didn’t talk very much either. My mom say now I talk and don’t stop. But no, I was real laid back, and so was my youngest brother; my sister was not. So it probably didn’t bother her as much as it bothered the two of us. She was real outspoken, real outgoing. And I was more laid back.

	J:	I would just think it would have an emotional impact on people. So because you were laid back, it was just like, “Unh.” Like, either way, it was just—

	B:	Well I was real quiet, and up until I got in eleventh grade, if things bothered me, I kept it within; I didn’t let it out. And then, my younger brother now, he’s really— but now he’s got older, he’s abrupt. To me sometime he is. He’s out in the business world now, because he’s like a counselor. And they have a firm, and have different offices. He is real successful now, but I guess that come from—he always, he was real into academics, too. Like his son, that’s probably the one you was talking about; they call him “1600”; he had a perfect SAT score, my nephew. But, he went to a private school. My brother and his first wife got a divorce when Alvin was little. So, he always went to a private school. So, he went to school in South Carolina. When her mom was living to Miami, a hurricane came through there and destroyed everything at that time. They moved to Carolina, her mom and them did, and she did. So he always went to private schools; he never went to public schools. He had offers from everywhere to go to college. But because I had gone to college at Florida, and his dad had gone, and my sister, he decided to come here and walk on here. He played for a little while and then he hurt his leg. His knee? His knee. But, he’s into academics, so he was trying to decide whether to go into engineering, or to go into accounting, or





what. But he graduated from his B.S., and then he continued and got his masters in, I'm not sure what it is in now. But anyway, what he does now, he’s with this firm, you know how you would go and do a loan? They only deal in big business people. And he’s the only Black in that firm. And he’s gotten a promotion, he’s done that for little over a year and a half, but now he’s taking—he took one test about in February, and another test he’ll take this week. He is trying to get his license in something else now, I'm not sure what it—but he want to be in the stoke brokerage now, with all the money.

	J:	Trying to get paid, yeah. B:	Yeah.

	J:	It just seems like your nephew’s really, really driven. I know he went to private schools and whatnot, but do you feel like the life, the environment your brother grew up in was somehow transferred over to him? Like he installed values in his son.

	B:	Yeah, but his mom is also into, she’s very bright in academics. She in fact taught at University of Florida for a couple of semesters, in Accounting. And now she’s in South Carolina, and she work in a university, teaches—I’m not too sure what she teach now.

	J:	Oh, okay. What did the election of President Obama mean to you?



	B:	It was—how am I going say this? I was happy. And to me, it wasn’t about a Black/White kind of thing. To me, it was more who I thought was more, who was better for the country. It wasn’t like, again, I say, a Black/White. And my thinking was that he could bring more into the United States, as far as values and outlook,





because he came up in poverty, so he knows about poverty and what it takes to succeed.

	J:	So, it was never about the color? B:	Not to me.

	J:	It was always about his values, what he could bring to the table, and the fact that from your opinion he was just a better candidate.

	B:	Best-qualified candidate, mmhm.



	J:	Because I know some people, they simply voted for him because he was Black, and other people saw it as a mark of change where they felt as if, through him, he gave Black children hope. Because you know before him, you always hear stories about, “Well, my mom would always tell us that we would be a president, but I would never actually—.”

	B:	You didn’t believe it, but you thought more like—well so that’s what, where you heard about the athletes always succeeding, and people who are movie stars, like that. And then we got a judge, you got a judge, you have lawyers, you have doctors; but then, another level now, you’ve moved up another level.

	J:	Yeah. Because it’s so weird. Like, you know the comedian Chris Rock? B:	Mmhm.

J:   It’s this thing that he said in one of his comedies that has always stuck with me. He said, “What a White man can leap to, a Black man has to fly to.” So, do you believe that statement?

B:   Mmhm.



J:   [Laughter] Because I'm not a journalist, but one of things I hear from a lot of





journalists, Black journalist students, or Black journalists period, is that it’s really hard for them to get work even though they feel as if they’re better than Whites.

	B:	I always was having to be not one, not two; five times better. Because they look at your skin color.

	J:	Yeah. Yeah, definitely. Because they recently did this thing on, I think it was CNN, where they had a whole bunch of small children in the room, and they asked them to point to who they thought was the dumbest child. And everybody winded up pointing to the darkest-skinned child.

	B:	It’s stereotype again. Because I know, adults do it, too. Because I had this professor at university, Dr. Ober, and I’ll never forget him, for science, and I always hated science. But anyway, had him, and so my first year of teaching, I taught seventh grade history, and his son when I interned; I did a four-five combination. I had his son when I interned. So, when I got to teach my first year, I had his son again. So, his mom came—and I say, “Boy, that’s really dumb that she was an educator!” She came in, having an open house and having a parent meeting and everything, she came in, and she said, “I understand they have Black teachers here.” Talking to me, now; I’m right there. And, “I need to know how many Blacks are on the team”—then they called it LC, because it was middle school. And I say, “I'm Black last I checked.” Her definition of Black was you have to be real dark. I said, “Here you go with this stereotype again. As far as I know, I'm Black. Last I looked in the mirror.” But her stereotype, of course, you’d have to be real dark, that’s how you’re Black. And Black, we have people can be from the light-light all the way to the dark-dark. In my family for example,





my grandfather, my mom's dad, was real, real fair. Most his siblings were real, real fair. And her mom was real dark. On my daddy's side, his mom was light, but his dad was real dark. But his mom’ dad—I never met him, but they say, he was dead before I was born—he could pass for White. So though you can’t—the stereotype. I have a niece, my brother's daughter, her mom is White, but the girl—and I look at her sometimes and I tease her, because sometimes, Destiny, when you look at her, she look Black; her skin look darker. And other times, she real, real White, her skin. I don’t—

	J:	[Laughter] I don't know, maybe—.



	B:	But like I say, some days, you can tell she’s mixed; other days, you can’t tell. I don't know, maybe it’s something in her skin. Maybe because of her mom is White. And on both sides our family, we have Indian, and have White, on both side. Maybe that’s why it’s like that. One day, my uncle came up and he said— he’s dead now—he said, “Who’s that White girl sitting over there?” I said, “That’s your niece!” He looked around. Because like I said, some days her skin look lighter than others.

	J:	I don't know, it could be the sun. Maybe she’s tanning by mistake, or— B:	I don't know.

	J:	So, was there anything else that you wanted to add that you probably didn’t get to say?

	B:	Just that, in the alumni association, we meet once a month. And we have one Lincolnian who’s pushing for them to have Lincoln as a high school again, but I don't think it’ll ever happen.





	J:	So you guys have reunions constantly?



	B:	No, we have a meeting. When we have, it’s called Lincoln High Alumni Association, and it’s former Lincoln High School—we call it “Lincolnians.” Lincoln, Lincolnians. We meet and do projects to raise money, more for scholarships, really; and we meet, raise money for scholarships, we give away scholarships.

We give out either fifty or a hundred; it depend. I have the names now, submitted tonight at the meeting, of our students which I was really proud. This is the first year we had as many submitted; their grade point average was really high. But this time, we had one young lady from Newberry with an unweighted 3.2450; we have another young lady from Newberry, unweighted 3.0; then we have a young lady from GHS, unweighted 3.7720. Then we have a young man with a GPA of

3.53 from Gainesville High School. We have a young lady—this is one of the lowest ones—a 2.9 from Buchholz. Then we have one young lady from Newberry with a 4.595.

	J:	She must have got a lot of Honor and AP classes.



	B:	And then, we have a 3.88 from Newberry; we have a 3.4420 from Buchholz; they have a weighted 3.3 from Eastside; we have a 3.2 from Gainesville High; a 3.7390 from Eastside; we have a 3.970 from Gainesville High School; and a 3.8 from Gainesville High School. We never had them that high before. So, we recommending the first four for scholarships. We do this every two years; so, year before last, what we decided to do, since we had the year to raise money for scholarship, we decided to get together and have members of the sorority to donate money. And we donate two hundred fifty dollars each. And we did eight





scholarships.



	J:	So, through Lincoln, you’re still helping your community, helping the kids further their education.

	B:	Mmhm.



	J:	Were you involved in any of the sororities while you were at UF? B:	They didn’t have any Black sororities when I was on campus.

	J:	Oh! Oh, I guess because it was only 250, so.



	B:	Mmhm, my sister—I’m a Delta. Before I was, what she did was, her and four other girls went to national and they brought Delta on campus; with Lambda Psi, they were the original ones to bring that on University of Florida campus. My sister and four other girls. And then, when I pledged, I pledged grad chapter. But when I pledged, it was Ocala alumni. But now, we have a chapter here. So I was in the chartering line for the chapter here in Gainesville.

	J:	Oh, okay. I don't even know what to ask about you being a Delta. I don’t know what to ask about sorority life, because I just haven’t got involved in it.

	B:	Even if I didn’t have—when I went to college, I didn’t have time for a sorority. [Laughter]

	J:	Yeah, it’s just like—.



	B:	Plus, it’s expensive now, even more than it was when I pledged, and I pledged Grad chapter.

	J:	I have a friend who goes to FAU, and she pledged Delta. And she told me it was more than a thousand, so.

	B:	I’m not sure how much it is now, because it was like—I pledged in [19]79, and it





was hard back when I pledged, because I was working, and I had my cousin’ little boy, I was keeping him because she had some issues. So, I was keeping him and trying to work. And in that time, we didn’t have a chapter here, so we had to drive to Ocala every night. So I would take him to my mom, and they would keep him, and I come back at twelve o’clock every night, pick him up from my mom' house, go home, put him back to bed, get up the next morning, did that like for two weeks.

	J:	So it was really stressful, no sleep. B:	Yep.

	J:	Okay. So, there was nothing else that you wanted to, like— B:	I don't think so.

	J:	—add or anything like that. B:	Don’t think so.

	J:	All right, so I guess I’m just going to stop—. [End of interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, July 18, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019