AAHP 465; Moore; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 465 Horace Moore

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Marna Weston on August 23, 2012 60 minutes | 23 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 465

Interviewee: Horace Moore Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: August 23, 2012



	W:	This is Marna Weston for the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program and our joint virtual with the Alachua County democratic executive committee in Pugh Hall on August 22, 2017, is it the 22nd Deborah or is it the 23rd? August 23rd we’ll fix that later on and we’re speaking with a local attorney a member of the Democratic Party Mr. Horace Moore. Thank you Mr. Moore for being interviewed today.

	M:	Thank you for inviting me.



	W:	Would you please state and spell your full name?



	M:	My name is Horace, H-O-R-A-C-E Nathaniel, N-A-T-H-A-N-I-E-L Moore, M-O-O- R-E Senior.

	W:	And when and where were you born? I was born here in Gainesville, Florida September 18, 1948.

	W:	And who are your parents?



	M:	Earnest Kato and Victoria Jones.



	W:	And do you recall their dates of birth?



	W:	I don’t recall my father’s date of birth and he’s deceased, but my mother was born March 1, 1922.

	W:	That’s right our moms are both born on the same day [Laughter]. She told me that when I interviewed her.

	M:	Yep, she’s ninety years old.



	W:	And it brought a smile to your face to mention your mother. What is it exciting about your mother that brings a smile to your face?





	M:	Well, a lot of people think that I’m trouble, but they don’t know my mother. I’m really like my mother, I didn’t create this personality. My personality is a direct reflection of my mother and I love it because like I said, she’s ninety years old, and she’s still feisty. She’s so feisty because my sister who’s younger than I am doesn’t wanna have conversations with her because she can’t keep with her.

	W:	Has your mother left a mark on you in terms of your activism and the profession have you chose in some way?

	M:	Well, I can say that my entire family had something to do with that. My mother is a big influence on me and always has been, but so was my father who was a cab driver. And as a cab driver, he used to pick me up and he would put me in the front seat and he would tell me about people and their personality and what to look out for when he would pick them up from the grocery store and take them home and what they were gonna be talking about because it seemed as though whatever they talked about week was about the same. So he taught me how to listen to conversations and how to get along with people.

	W:	You mentioned a sister, do you have other brothers and sisters? And could you list them from oldest to youngest.

	M:	I’m the oldest living. I have a deceased brother, Eddy Moore, who has two children and one of them is Dr. Eddy Moore. Hopefully he will be coming to Gainesville for the race and race relation seminar next year 2013. He has a daughter, Felicia, who works for the department of children family services over in Polk County. And I’m the oldest living child, I have a sister, Dorothy Foestin, who’s married to Reverend Earnest Foestin who’s a retired pharmacist. And





then my brother who lives in Atlanta he’s a preacher, so is his wife. And then I have a deceased sister, so there were five of us.

	W:	I’m sorry you didn’t mention the name of your deceased sister or brother who’s in Atlanta.

	M:	My brother is Ellrow Moore and he’s married to Gloria Jean and my sister was Sandra Washington.

	W:	I’m very sorry for your loss. What was is like growing up with your brothers and sisters? How would you describe your childhood?

	M:	Mischievous. My oldest brother was twelve years older than I so he left the house when I was maybe in late elementary school. So, I was the oldest and I was the boss [Laughter] and they did not like it.

	W:	Did you have chores when you were growing up and what kind of chores did you and your brothers and sisters have?

	M:	My brother and I primarily cut the yard, racked the yard if it needed it, those kind of things. My mothers, mother, Trestyna Washington, lived with us so she did all of the household chores, even cooking when my mother was working. My sisters they got away with doing hardly anything because of my grandmother and they were out of the house before my grandmother died. We didn’t have to many chores my parents more concerned with us going to school, getting good grades, and growing up knowing how to behave ourselves.

	W:	My I ask a little bit more about your family a little further, you mentioned your grandmother Trestyna Washington normally I ask about grandparents I forgot to do that. Could you tell me about your mothers parents please?





	M:	I did not know her father, but I’m told I’m a lot like him in that I am very confrontational and from what I understand that confrontational attitude is what got him killed. I think he was born in 1852 or [18]59 and right after the Civil War I’m sure it was very difficult for Black males and Black people to be confrontational and have that independent mind. My grandmother Trestyna, she was born in 1892 and she was sweet women. She was small stature, but she had five boys and one girl. My mother was the only girl and she in the middle of the children, but I’m told and I saw it as I grew up, she really controlled her brothers and they confided in her. So, it kind of impressed me that my mother who gave me a lot of instructions in life also gave her brothers instructions in life. And I know three of her brothers went to the military and even though they went to the military one of them, Uncle William, served in World War II—two of them served in World War II. Although they were military veterans they still relied on her for her wisdom and for her guidance. So with them being sort of like being led by my mother there was no reason for us to buck the system.

	W:	Do you have any further details about the circumstances of your mother’s father’s death? Where it took place? Where he was from?

	M:	It would be out in the Monteocha area. I don’t have any more details. I do know that there was an elderly gentlemen his last name is Banks, I don’t know if you know Reverend John Banks, but it was his father and he’s the one who related to me to tell Vicky, they called my mother Vicky for Victoria, “Tell Vicky don’t forget that the reason Tom is not living today or didn’t live as long he lived was because he did not take anything off anybody.” And those White folks killed him.





	W:	How about your dads mother and father what can you relay about who they were or where they were from?

	M:	I did not know his father, but his mother was Berth Kato. My father had one brother who’s Reverend James Kato and two sisters, Aunt Jenny and Aunt Daisy. Aunt Daisy is deceased, they lived in New Jersey. Aunt Jenny still lives, she’s the same age as my mother. As matter of fact I think that my mother may be two months older than she and that might have been how my mother met my father, through his sister. I haven’t questioned them about that, but if you think about it that’s probably how it happened. Because we have a picture of my mother and my Uncle James, my father’s brother, standing together when it looked like they might have been in their early twenties. So, she was close to my father’s family as well as her brother in laws wife.

	W:	And what was her name? M:	Christine Kato.

	W:	Do you have any knowledge of descent ancestors older than your grandmothers that you’ve mentioned. Do you have any knowledge about anyone else?

	M:	No, and I my oldest son is a lawyer and he practices in Plant City Florida. He went back as far as he could go and that’s why I’m thinking that my grandfather Tom was born in 1859. So, because that was as far back as he went or could go because the records stop really identifying people by names along with their birthdays so it got to where he was unable to decide for who’s Tom’s parents were.

	W:	What is your earliest memory of education?





	M:	Pre-school. Back in the fifties we did have pre-school. I went to a pre-school I can’t think of it now, but it’s still in existence. It’s over on Northwest Fourth Street and in between fifth and Third Avenue.

	W:	Do you remember any of the teachers of the principal of the school? M:	At the moment, I don’t. But if I think about it I’ll let you know.

	W:	Okay, how about grammar school? First through eighth grade where did you go to school?

	M:	A. Quinn Jones.



	W:	A. Quinn Jones?



	M:	Yeah, A. Quinn Jones elementary school now was A. Quinn Jones High School.



It went K-12 in 1956 they built was now Lincoln middle school, but that was Lincoln High School. They built it before I went to sixth grade or seventh grade. So, I went to A .Quinn Jones from Kindergarten to Fourth grade. Then my parents moved to the Southeast side of Gainesville. When they moved to the Southeast side of Gainesville I went to Williams’s elementary school in fifth or sixth grade. Then in seventh grade I was able to go to the big High School and that was a big thing in the early sixties. Everybody wanted to go to Lincoln High School and so I went to Lincoln High School from seventh through twelfth.

	W:	Did you personally know A Quinn Jones?



	M:	Well, yes I did. As a matter of fact, my senior year in High School—I was president of senior class and we the boys my graduating class wanted to wear pastal colored shirts during graduation and they wanted us to wear white shirts, but we didn’t want to wear white shirts. And I was the president and Mr. O Nealy





was the principal. Mr. A. Quinn Jones wife, Elizabeth Jones, was my English teacher and I remember her coming to me and saying, “Horace you’ve got all the influence over the class. Why don’t you tell the young men to wear white shirts?” I said “I don’t want to wear white shirts.” I wanted to wear I think yellow. Some of the boys wanted to wear blue, some even wanted to wear green. Now, you have to take in consideration we were wearing navy blue suits that we bought from Bell Blancy. Now all the boys we all had the same suit, from Bell Blancy, they were tailored suits, but we wanted to wear something other than white shirts. And Mrs. Jones came to me and said, “Look I’ll go get one of Prof. Jones shirts and I will alter it for you to make it fit if you will just wear a white shirt”. I said Mrs.

Jones I don’t wanna wear a white shirt, and then I got a mandate from the principal saying “If you don’t wear a white shirt you will not be able to participate in graduation.” So, we had class that night and all of us boys got together and I said “I don’t wanna wear black shoes either I wanna wear brown shoes.” So there was an argument in between the principal and I. And we had our run ins and so I got with my classmates and I told them what the situation was and they said well “What are we gonna do?” I said “We gonna do what we wanna do this is our graduation this is not his graduation.” So, we all decided to go to Belks and buy whatever color shirt we wanted to wear and we were wearing powder blue—I mean white ties. The ties were white regardless of the color of the shirt so we all bought whatever color shirt we wanted to wear and we all showed up at class night and I was sitting on the stage as president with the principal and I remember him sending me a note down to the end of the stage and saying “What





did I tell you about wearing colored shirts?” [Laughter] And I reached into my jacket and I pulled out a pen and I wrote back, “What did I tell you? This is our graduation, not yours.” And I send it back to him. He said he was gonna stop graduation, but what we had already done was if he tried to stop graduation the entire class boys and girls, there was 154 of us, we were gonna stand up and walk out. He didn’t do anything. “He also send me a note saying “What’re you doing with those brown shoes on?” And I told him, “Wearing them.” So, people can say what they wanna say about me, but it didn’t just start. It’s not personal I have always believed in what was right and I believe that everyone has an independent mind, they should use it and not be overburdened with the influence of others.

	W:	Taking that as lead into the purpose of our further discussion, President Barack Obama has been faced with many difficult choices as well. Do you feel that he has the same spirt that you’ve described? Or how would you describe the way the president deals with conflicts?

	M:	I think that he has that same type of attitude about him, but he’s a lot cooler than I am. I couldn’t put up with some of the stuff that he’s had to put up with that has come down the pipe from the republicans. He’s done his best I think that anyone could do under the circumstances and to show you what I mean by he has that independence of thought and action about him. There are issues in which the democratic base is very vocal about, he did not go lock step with the democratic base. He has given everyone a little bit of something and there are democrats who are mad with Barack Obama because “Well he didn’t do what I thought he





would do in the environmental area like he promised during the campaign.” Well, look at all what he did do and we still have republicans who are saying there’s no such thing as global warming. Even though fires are burning up the Midwest and the western states right now. Even though the Antarctica and the artic caps are melting every year sooner than they are supposed to. Even though the scientists have documented that he have an average of one two maybe three degrees higher temperatures every year. There’s no global warming there’s no trapped green gases. Those types of things bother me about the democratic base because I don’t understand how a lot of poor people are voting for the republicans and it’s like how can you feel the way that you feel about your president when logic tells you he’s doing the best that he can. Everything that he proposes the republicans say “No.” Everything that the democrats try to do for the benefit of the country the Republican Party says “No.” They don’t even want to bring it to the floor for a vote, but yet and still they want to say they are patriotic. They are the most un-patriotic group I have ever witnessed and so I commend President Barack Obama for being steadfast in the things that he attempts to do. And the way that he does it so professionally because I don’t have the patience to put up with the kind of mess the republicans have in Washington D.C. and even up there in Tallahassee. I couldn’t put up with it.

	W:	How long have you been a democrat Mr. Moore? M:	Been a democrat since December 1969.

	W:	You seem to remember it very specifically, is there a reason that it comes to mind in that way?





	M:	Well, when I was growing up you had to be twenty-one to vote. I turned twenty- one September 18, 1969. I registered to vote in December two months later and I voted if I can remember, every election that was open to me since then.

	W:	Have you always been a democrat?



	M:	Always been a democrat always will be.



	W:	What do you love about being a democrat?



	M:	Helping others. I see the Democratic Party as a party that searches for solutions to out of problems that effects everyone. It’s just like this tax situation. There’s a lot of rich democrats, but they’re not jumping up and down saying “No we shouldn’t pay more taxes.” They know what’s fair and the democrats have always fought for what is fair whether or not it’s for education, the environment, taxation, voting. Whatever the issues are the democrat’s usually try to fall in the middle and do what’s fair. And that’s difficult to do on a consistent basis and I can truly say that the democratic party in these united states has done as good as anybody, or any group of people can do to fight for the fairness for everyone.

	W:	Do you remember the first time you voted for a democratic presidential candidate and what that was like and who the candidate was?

	M:	It would have had to been John F. Kennedy in 1960. No, it would be I guess



Humphrey in [19]72. Whoever was the presidential candidate in [19]72.



	W:	Was it McCarthy in [19]72?



	M:	Whoever it was, I don’t know who it was.





	W:	We gonna fix it and make you look good so don’t worry about that part [Laughter] but if you could talk a little bit about what that first time voting for a president in [19]72 was like.

	M:	Back during the day everyone didn’t have televisions and we had a lot of presidential elections I can remember back in the fifties if I’m not mistaken even when I was like four or eighth and Eisenhower was running the first time or it must have been when he was running for reelection it might have been in [19]56. We had to sit by the radio and listen to the elections return on the radio. And that was always something exciting it was like electrical whatever the presidential election came around everybody was talking about it and it was almost like for a kid, the circus is coming to town. Everybody was giddy and so we would sit around the radio and we would listen to the returns and one of the first time I ever got an opportunity I was glad to be able to go down and go down and vote.

	W:	Did you have any problems voting at that time? I’m trying to understand the mood of the country at that time, was there discrimination or was there difficulty or was it just you went down and voted because it was your right and it was like that?

	M:	I call Gainesville Shangri-La. I don’t think Gainesville ever had the racial problems that most areas have. And that’s why sometimes I’ll be at a DEC meeting and I be so vocal it’s because people I think in Alachua County do not understand what it’s like to live in an area where the republicans are the majority. We never had that problem here. When they built Lincoln High School in 1956, that school was bigger and better than Gainesville High School. We had the best





gym, that gym—we just got through looking at the Olympics, that gym had all the gymnastic things that you saw in the Olympics. The bars, the horse, everything! And so, Blacks as lack of a better phrase were well taken care of in Alachua County and I never say anything to stop us from voting.

	W:	Is that distinguished from reports or personal knowledge that you have from other areas?

	M:	Yes, and that’s the thing about being a democrat and especially being a lawyer and traveling I talked to a lot of people. I had to go to Youngstown Ohio last year and I stopped in I don’t even know the name of the community, but the hotel was carved into the side of the mountains and I wanted to say either Virginia or even Kentucky. And when I went to the bar I was the only Black person—my family was the only Black person in the hotel at the time and when I went into the bar they made sure it was known. We started talking and they were republicans and I was the only democrat so I had to defend the democratic side and they were advocating the republican’s side. But, it was a good debate, but you could see the against in some of the peoples face and they got up and they left, they didn’t want to participate in some of the conversations. And so when you travel and you speak to people and they look at you like you don’t even exist like their looking through you, you know what it’s about. And when we were in Youngstown Ohio we met a lot of people who you don’t ask people are you a republican or a democrat but you could tell they had that warmth about them that led you to believe that they were a democrat and that’s something that you can pick up on. It’s almost like Black folks being able to pick up on racism without its really





raising its head. It’s being able to be around people, listen to them talk and know that is not a republican talking. I think we even talk differently, we even act differently. So, that’s why I call Gainesville and Alachua County Shangri-La because we’ve been blessed to have so many democrats here that we don’t have the real racial or prejudicial environments that some people have because even if it’s not racism discrimination it can be discrimination based on something else.

	W:	Do you remember what it meant to you when you first heard that Barack Obama had been elected president of the United States?

	M:	Yes, I was at the local Elks Lodge and when the electoral votes started climbing and inching toward I think its 270, I left because I knew was not going to be able to take it publicly. And when I got home and he got above 270, I just cried. I cried for three days. I don’t think I left my house for three days.

	W:	Why did it effect you that way?



	M:	Because I never thought I would see this country grow in my lifetime to that point. I knew it would happen one day because I had seen this country grow from when I was a little boy until the present. So it’s inevitable with it will grow and continue to grow. There are forces out there that are trying to stunt the growth, but they can’t stop the growth and there’s a difference. They can’t stunt it, but they’ll never stop it as long as there’s a democratic party in existence.

	W:	You talk about the electoral count and of course each state has different numbers of electoral votes to contribute toward the election to equal the 270 for the president to win. Were you surprised more that Barack Obama was elected





President of the United States or were you more surprised that he was elected President of the United States and won carrying the state of Florida?

	M:	There are more democrats in the state of Florida than there are republicans.



What had surprised me is that our state house and our govern is full of republicans. That is more surprising to me than Barack Obama winning Florida.

	W:	Do you remember talking about Barack Obama’s election with anyone in your family for the first time and what that was like?

	M:	Well, my mother said I’m gonna have to do an extra prayer tonight and ask the lord to protect that boy because we know there are a lot of haters out there.

	W:	Did you talk to her about how she felt about him winning and do you recall anything special that she might have said?

	M:	She was surprised. She’s a very Christian lady so she believed that the lord would deliver him, but her biggest concern after he won was whether or not the lord was going to be able to protect him.

	W:	What does she think about his reelection chances?



	M:	Oh, she said “That boy is gonna win.” [Laughter] She calls me boy too I said “You the only person that can call me a boy and don’t get something from me back.

She said, “Well when your ninety years old, you all are boys to me”. Yes ma’am’.



	W:	How confident are you that President Obama is going to win reelection?



	M:	I’m really confident. Now let me tell you why. I was in Houston, Texas three weeks ago at a national improved benevolent protective order elks of the world’s international convention. We stayed at the Hilton and we were at a civil liberties banquet. I don’t remember the speaker, but he was an officer with the NAACP.





And he talked about the NAACP being the big dog. From its inception through the lawsuits, the demonstrations, the marches, he talked about how the big dog has brought down different barriers that people faced. They’ve done it for Blacks, they’ve done it for women, and they’ve done it for the disabled. They’ve done it for everybody. None of these organizations are political, but all of their members participate in the political process. When you listen to people who are in the Elks, when you listen to people who are in the NAACP, when you listen to the Alphas, the Kappas, the Omegas, the sororities, the Links, the shamans, Black America will show up. I remember when this state elected Barb Martinez a republican governor, Bob Graham went to Washington D.C as a United States Senator. He and I were talking at a United States JC meeting over in Pensacola. And we were talking about how did this state elect a republican governor? And I told him because White folks stayed home Black folks voted. In 2010 look at your statistics we have a republican governor today because White folks stayed home. Look at the percentage of the Blacks that voted democratic Blacks voted in 2010 and you will see, we came out to vote. Go back to 2008 when Barack Obama first ran, we came out to vote. White folks stayed home in 2010 that’s why we have a republican governor. That ain’t gonna happen in November. All we have to do is get out and vote in all fifty states and the territories. If the White folks don’t stay home, we win.

	W:	I’d like to go off script for just a second I’ll come back to it, but I’m curious with your response from you about something that’s happened in the news recently. There’s been controversy concerning a republican senate candidate in Missouri





and comments that he made about legitimate rape in a way that people phrase it as being derogatory towards women. President Obama’s response generally him paraphrasing was that this is the reason why on healthcare matters that we should not have men primarily making decisions effecting women’s health. Do you think that stance will help President Obama with women in the next election?

	M:	I don’t think President Obama had to say anything. Once Atkin said what he had to say I think the nail was in the coffin. If women want men who have no feelings for their rights controlling their lives, then they need to go ahead on and keep electing people like Rick Scott, Atkins, and all these other republican men who do not believe in equal rights under the law. What President Obama said was just a side comment. Atkins revealed the true republican party when it comes down to the rights of women and what they think about women. He said that publically what do you think they say when their by themselves drinking and there are no women around? Be real. Call it what it is. They do not care about the general population’s welfare in this country. They will put an issue before the welfare of this country. They have been doing it for the last fifty-two years. And if we don’t go out and get to vote, and get out to vote, it’s our own fault.

	W:	Is there a specific policy or law or issue that President Obama supports that you really like and you believe he will be able to deliver if he’s elected to a second term?

	M:	I don’t know how long you’ve been associated with the democratic committee, but ever since I’ve been a member I’ve been saying the democrats need to put a saddle on education and ride that horse until it drops. That’s the issue because





an uneducated society is a dumb society. A dumb society cannot make good decisions. And there is no sense in us paying taxes to the school board for our children to have second grade education.

	W:	If you were the education tsar, the main advisor for President Obama or whoever the president is or will be on education, what would your plan be? What would your advice be on education?

	M:	My plan would be to go and I would go and talk to retired teachers or retired educators who are over sixty years old and develop a plan based on what this country was built upon. There was a time when our education system wasn’t as broken as it is today. There was a time when teachers cared more about the child than they did about the paycheck. Yes, they must be unfairly and unjustly paid, but I’ve got fourteen grandkids. I got five living children, I have two degrees from the University of Florida. My first degree from the University of Florida is back in 1977. I know what education is and I know that you have to instill something in children that makes them want to come home, do their homework, and free up their evening for themselves. Not be dictated to by parents. You got to want it. You want to get up in the morning, I can’t wait to get with my friends, I can’t wait to take that test to see which one of us made the highest score. See when I was in High School there were about four or five of us, we competed against each other in a friendly way, and all of us ended up being honest with us because of it.

	W:	What do you fear most about the upcoming election?





	M:	My biggest fear is that the tricks that the Republican Party will be carried out. They are trying to suppress the voter turnout. When it comes down to the ID, identification laws, the only problem that I have with it is where do they identifications come from? I have never voted and not had to show an ID. Even the poll watcher who could have taught me in High School knew who I was, but they still make me go in my wallet and pull out of my driver’s license. That’s nothing new, what’s new is saying that you can’t use this kind of identification and you can’t use that kind of identification. And it’s ironic I heard something on the radio Tuesday when I was driving back home from West Palm Beach in which a radio commentator was saying it makes no sense whatsoever that you can use a hunting license identification, but you can’t use a military ID card or you can’t use a college identification card. Now you think about that. That’s where this country has gone to in terms of trying to stop people from voting.

People say “Well why is it important the president makes appointment to the federal court system?” Because, you need judges who are fair. It doesn’t matter if they are republican or democratic. When you get to the federal bench that’s a lifetime job, but if they believe in the law, in the constitution of the United States, and the constitution of the various states, and they make the people who implement those laws do them fairly and do them just, we wouldn’t have these problems. It’s a no brainer, it is a no brainer that those types of tactics are not done to weed out fraud. They’re done to suppress voting and that’s flat-out wrong.





	W:	Do you have a particular sense of urgency about any issue relating to the election?

	M:	My only sense of urgency has to do with the education. I’ve always been a believer that education is the key to everything. I try to read the Gainesville Sun every morning before I go to work at 5:30 I begin reading the Gainesville Sun. They talk about the economy, Obama’s not doing this for the economy. If you picked up the Gainesville Sun this morning, you’d see that housing increased 15% in Alachua County in July. You’ll see that the housing industry is the catalyst for all jobs in the United States. They’re beginning to rebound. After the republican and the banking industry allowed people to buy speculative housing, to buy housing that they could not afford, we had an abundance of housing that needed to be occupied. Every year the twenty year olds become twenty-one.

Every year we will naturally have people that are going to need housing. When you look at the number of houses that were out there when the housing boom burst, all of those houses had to be occupied before the housing industry could start building again. I am confident that with Barack Obama our economy will grow steady, but it will never be on fire like it was before he came in office and before the housing bust. But, if you can’t read a blue print, how can you build a house? If you can’t read anything how can you follow those instructions? How can you hold down a good job if you can’t read? So, basic education is the foundation of this nation.

	W:	I’d like to go off script again and get your opinion on something so if it’s something we can use we will and if not we’ll leave it up to you on how it comes





out. But I’m curious to know your opinion about another social institution very significant in the African American community and that’s the Black church.

There’s been a lot of disagreement in the news about the positions that President Obama has taken and how they’ve effected people from religious points of views. Some Black ministers have disagreed with some of his positions very vocally, others have supported, and some have been quite. With the elections a lot of times right before the elections at the Black churches there’s a lot of activity to get people to vote, but there have been changes in the law to change the number of days and the amount of time that helps people get ready that even the federal system is saying might be civil rights violations. At least five Florida counties have changed made to change those days because of how Black people organize around churches before elections. The question is, what is the role of the Black church in this next election or otherwise, what role does it play in these types of activities?

	M:	I will answer that question by going back to education. If ministers are not educated and do not understand the complex issues that face our nation they should not be pool pit voicing their opinions. And I’m trying to keep that as nice as I can because just before coming here I spoke to a client of mine who’s going to Charlotte for the national democratic convention. And I said, well how in the world do you get to go? She lives in Vero Beach. She talked about how Vero Beach is the seventh wealthiest community in the country, highly republican, but she’s a member of the DEC there. And her comment to me was “We got to do something about these dog on Black preachers.” So, to get back onto your





question the only way we can do something with these preachers is educate them. They may not need to go back to school, but they need to be educated on issues how they affect everyone. And I’ll give you a good example a lot of Black preachers or ministers are advocating from the pool pit against the gay community. But like my client has said to me and many other people, and who is over those ministers choirs? Who sits at their organ and their pianos most of the time? Gay people. So how can they talk against gay people when all of the good music in the church is coming from a gay director, choir director, or pianist or organist? It doesn’t make any sense.

	W:	Do you think that the religious left has lost some of its influence because of how the religious right has become more vocal and maybe some of the passion from the sixties has been lost and we had priests, and nuns, and pastors, that went out to march for social justice and that’s not taking place anymore?

	M:	The religious left lost their standing a long time ago. I’ve even asked at a DEC meeting “Why is it that the religious people in the Democratic Party don’t stand up for Jesus? Why do you hide your head in the sand and let the religious right say that they are the champions of the lord?” The crap that they talk about, the lord Jesus Christ would not put up with that. And I am a firm believer that for what you do on earth only you alone is gonna have to answer to the master. You can have all these people on the right cheerleading and saying, oh we shouldn’t have this, and oh we shouldn’t have that. And I’m like, that’s not gonna get you in heaven if you believe in it. Christianity or being a Christian is an individual thing. And for the religious right to say, the bible says gay people are gonna go to hell.





Where in the world is that at? I’ve never run across that in the bible. I read it almost as much as I do the newspaper every day. There used to be a time when they said it was blast for me for Blacks and Whites to have a relationship, to marry, to have children. So, I don’t know what happened to the democrats they went solid and they allowed the republicans to steal the religious platform because freedom to worship was a right that the Democratic Party advocated.

	W:	Attorney Horace Moore we appreciate your time today on behalf of the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program and the Alachua County Democratic executive committee working with this project. Want to thank you for your time, I’d like to give you a final privilege with that thanks and give you the opportunity to say whatever it is that’s on your mind to close our interview these will be my last comments and when you conclude with your remarks again with our thanks that will conclude the interview.

	M:	Thank you for having me and I’d just like to say, if every democrat would go and get five elderly people or disabled people, get them absentee ballots, don’t let them sit on the sidelines and sit home, we will win this election in November. Not only the presidential election, but we can turn around some of these congressional races as well as senatorial races, and we need to start working on what’s going on in Tallahassee. Let’s start at home, we turn it around here, we can turn it around everywhere. Thank you.

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Lisa Mueller, December 4, 2017.





	Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, November 28, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 28, 2019