AAHP 348; Johnson and Lee; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 348 Johnson Lee and Gussie Lee African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed on February 26, 2008

20 minutes | 11 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 348

Interviewee: Johnson Lee and Gussie Lee Interviewer:

Date: February 26, 2008



	I:	—ACT and then come over to A.L. Mebane, or—?



	L:	I never attended A.L. Mebane. [Break in recording] So when I left there, no transportation was provided for us to go anywhere. So my parents arranged for me to go to High Springs and live, because I had an aunt living close to High Springs. And the bus was coming past her house. So I went to live with her to go to Douglass for my seventh grade year.

	I:	So that’s how we claimed you. From the reunion, they were claiming Ms. Lee, I was like, “What?” [Laughter]

	L:	So, I did go to Douglass. That was my first year, leaving Ogden Elementary. And I went to Douglass for seventh grade. And for some reason, I want to think that was [19]48, [19]49. After that, then you got a bus coming from Alachua, which is ACT, to the Bland community, the Sugarhill area, on to where our school was. I then caught the bus coming into ACT. I graduated then, the next four years, 1954, from ACT. So I never attended school here at any time.

	I:	Look at the connections, and you look at where—that’s the whole purpose of this—and your story, your legacy of bringing that; it intertwines all of the three schools.

	L:	It definitely intertwines with—I’m Ogden, Douglass, and ACT. Definitely does, and all my children went to this school. We talking about ACT. And according to what I have read, ACT started to being built in 1920, which was before my—I wasn’t even born! [Laughter]





	I:	Yes ma’am, September 23rd, 1922. As Mr. Armour told us, they opened the school.

	L:	In 1922. Opened the school in 1922. And our school at that time, we had wood. How would we heat it? We heated with wood. There was no coals, and kerosene heaters when they had the money. Our room was a one-room school as I can recall. When I say one room, if I was a twelfth grader, all us twelfth graders, all the tenth graders was in one room, and then our periods were like forty, forty-five minutes. Then the bell would ring. [Laughter]

	J:	The hand bell?



	L:	Ring, ring, ring! You would hear it ringing. Man, we would move from that to the next one. The classes that were taught—I know we had math, there was reading, writing, arithmetic as they say—reading and writing, that’s English. We had Math, English, Science, P.E., and definitely had athletes. My class, there was forty people in my class at one time. When we graduated, it was seventeen.

	I:	That’s amazing, because that came out in one of the other interviews where, I want to say it was Ms. Jackson, she had her picture of her class when she started in the ninth grade. And then once she got to graduation, the senior class picture? Less than half.

	L:	Yeah. It was seventeen in our class. And the reason, I think, for that: the young boys stopped and had to work to help raise the families. The young girls got married, some of them, early on. But the reason we were doing that was economics. We had to survive. Had to survive.

	I:	So, Ms. Gussie Lee.





	L:	Yes.



	I:	Thank you.



	L:	If it were not for the dedication that school provided, those teachers were so dedicated, they were so real; it was as if we were home. And we knew that we had to get our education.

	I:	The value of it.



L:  The value, the moral standards were great. The discipline was great. It was just something that we knew we had to do if we wanted to better ourselves. And the teachers wanted to see us better ourselves.

J:   Yes. My own experience was from ACT. I:   Tell us who you are.

	J:	Who I am? Lee Edward Johnson. My formal education began at old ACT, I believe in 1939. In order to get there I had to walk. Walk from—well, you know where the Calvary Baptist Church out on 441? Well, from back in the woods where the highway ended, we’d walk to school. Sometimes we got to school, it was so cold, the teachers were so nice to us they let us warm up before we had to get in class. Our school was heated by wood, wood heat. Once per month, we got load out, a load, about a cord, I remember. But we got one of those a month. In the event that all that burned before the month was up, someone had to get together, some of us, and carry some wood. Air conditioning was unknown. Then I think they converted to, I guess oil heat. Which was much better. But still, oil didn’t have the same flexibility. If you ran out your oil allotment before the due time, then you had to think of something some way or another. I started all the





way from one through twelfth. We started in a large class, like she did. Think around about seventh, we had about forty-five. Ninth grade, we probably had about thirty. When we graduated 1951, our class had gone down to twenty-two. One of those things I remember when I look back on it was, my favorite teacher, Mrs. Mebane. I was very poor in math.

	I:	She’s been very popular! [Laughter]



	J:	Yes. I was very poor in math, but she went the extra mile to try to help me. At least went a few steps to help me understand, especially fractions; they was death to me. But she went that extra mile to try and help. There were few extracurricular activities—football, basketball—where we played other schools. But at school we played a little volleyball, softball, football, and basketball. Of course, at the end of the year, we had prom. Every year, we had what they called a school clothing [inaudible 7:25]. [Laughter]

	I:	Tell us about that, this is the first time we’ve heard about this!



	J:	Yes, well, each class had school clothing [inaudible 7:33]. This way—we had some good actors. Every class put on its play. When the girls moved to homemaking, they had what they call a fashion show, where they’d show off.

	I:	Oh I know about that! [Laughter]



	J:	Yes. But overall, for the education, I’m so grateful that the teachers was there for us. Just like she said, they were very, very giving teachers. They worked hard for us to grasp what we could. They saw that we got what was there. And supplies and so on, they would—





	I:	I was going to ask about books and things like that. Can you comment about the conditions?

	J:	There were some times I had to carry a lot. Well, for every subject, walking. But then all the books became scarce. We had a big book of geography, which was my favorite, geography books. And we had math, spelling, and writing. You learned how to write then. I think it was Mebane taught writing to me. She gave you one sentence, and I think I’ll never forget it: “We are going to write better this year.” [Laughter] That’s all we had to write. One page. [Laughter]

	L:	Stay on the line, stay on the line—



	J:	I know, I know, they would start with the lined paper, and later on you might try unlined, but you had to keep straight. That’s what—“We going write better this year.” And spelling like five words per day. On Friday, we’d get to twenty-five. But that was a good experience.

	I:	Wow. Well, let’s talk a little bit about your personal journeys. Because Ms. Lee shared with us that she has been a part of, and intertwined with, more than one of the two schools, and how it affects Mebane. Because Mr. Mebane was the principal at ACT for thirty years, I understand. And just his demeanor, we’ve learned that just his presence alone was quite enough.

	L:	It was.



	I:	But how was it that the education that you had then, and where you are now, how did you take that? Where did you take that in your journey to where you are now?





	J:	Well, truthfully, I really wasn’t interested in writing classes. I didn’t want to know. But there was that drive from Mrs. Mebane and few other teachers, so I went on one. And I took it, had to go to Service, and I used it. Helped me in Service, got out of Service, and for some reason I decided I’d try college. And then we got time to go to college, graduated in [19]51 and got to college in [19]56. It was a gap that I saw, I might have forgotten. [Laughter] I had problems—everything that they tried to teach me back during high school. So that was my fear, I had a fear factor then about going to school five or six years after graduation. However, with a few prayers, I wanted to go to Bethune-Cookman. But it seemed like they were thinking Bethune-Cookman, and I tried Edward Waters College. I enrolled in Edward Waters. And basically the teachers was similar to the ones back in the old ACT. They took their time with you because we had small classes.

	L:	Which is good.



	J:	Yes, very good. And I guess I hung in there, but I still had a problem with that math! [Laughter]. And I still do. [Laughter] I guess I knew enough to get a passing grade. But I’m not so good with these things, because for some reason, I—I did it. In undergraduate in [19]56, they were, “Well, you going try to get a job?” I wasn’t thinking about getting a job; this what I want to do. Seem like I’m going to finish college. This was a surprise to me. [Laughter] I’m going finish college, I hate it! You know? But I was thinking about working. [Laughter] Of course, I’ve accomplished something. I want to be. When your granddaddy comes and jumps, you have you in your robe and your everything—that’s, oh my goodness, I thought about that! [Laughter] You know? So. Okay now I’ve got to get some





money together, pay for the gown and whatever. And some of them other guys was saying we going send out applications for employment. That’s the way I’m gonna go. I’m not going go back, I was with acceptance. I’m going back home. Teaching, that’s all they can do if they live here. Teaching is the way, that’s about it. So, somewhere down the line, a young lady told me, said, “Mr. Johnson, I need you to come out here.” Because applications went out. And I said, “Okay.” And I think I sent out three. One here, one in Florida A&M and there; Procter and Gamble used to live here. And I think I sent one to Sanford. But the last one I sent was here.

	I:	To Mebane.



	J:	To Mebane. I said I didn’t know anything about Mebane. [Laughter] I sent it all the way from Bethune. Because, I don’t know if with me being at—I wasn’t aware. Because when I left, I didn’t come back too often. So I sent a letter to Mr. Whitfield, because I think he was the principal when I graduated—I don’t know what they, just run in the office, little office. And everybody sitting at the desk. [Inaudible 13:25] job or whatever. I didn’t have none, I wasn’t worried. That was my attitude. And about, I guess three days before time to go to work, I got a call and he said, “Are you ready to go to work?” I say, “Who’s this?” He said, “It’s Whitfield.” I said, “Yes, sir!” [Laughter] And so I packed up, and I used a little expense and I came back, and he gave me a job. And I fell in trying to use it, and I guess that’s where I ended at Mebane.

	I:	So, what’d you teach?



	J:	Oh here? I taught Geography.





	L:	Not math!



	J:	No! [Laughter]



	L:	That was your favorite subject, geography. I:	So, how long did you teach here?

	J:	I stayed here six years. I:	Really?

	J:	Uh-huh. The deal is, I started, but I transferred away. Geography, American History, I can’t recall the rest.

	I:	And for six years, taught here and then you left. And now you’re back. J:	And now I’m back, yes. [Laughter]

	I:	So, Ms. Lee.



	L:	Okay. Education was very important to me and my family. My daddy had a fourth-grade education. And my mom maybe had fifth. Daddy often said to us, “Without education, you are not going to make it in this world.” When I graduated from high school—he always said, “I want you to graduate from high school”—

never saw us going to college because we didn’t have any money. [Laughter] We didn’t have any money! And there was no grants and things like we have available now. And I went to Edward Waters, too.

	I:	You did?



	L:	I did.



	I:	Okay.



	J:	[Inaudible 15:15]



	L:	I didn’t know you were there! [Laughter]





	J:	Yeah.



	I:	See what happens years later?



	J:	I went to Edward Waters—and I graduated in [19]54, I went to Edward Waters. And I didn’t have money, and I went to the president of that school, Dr. Peters. Dan Peters. And I said to him, “I want to go to school. But my family won’t have money until we sell tobacco.” [Laughter] Because we were farming. I said, “But I really want to go to school.” He said, “Okay.” Can you believe that? That that happened. So I graduated in cosmetology over there. And later on, I went to doing other subjects and courses. I went into Early Childhood. And that’s where I’ve stayed. My idea was always to help somebody. I’ve always wanted to do something that I can help. The money was not that important. And it was important, but not to say, “Well, I’m going here because I can make a hundred thousand dollars.” That was not the reason I was doing anything. I wanted to have a job. Nursing was my first choice but I know I’ve never had enough.

Because it takes that much longer. And when I got around to social work, I went into Early Childhood. That’s my education. And without that, and without the dedication of the teachers who was teaching us—. And the one teacher that I—I don’t think I can say one had more influence on me than the other. My elementary teacher was very, very influential. There was three or four of those. And in that class, if we were in third, fourth, and fifth grade, you may have had a third, fourth, and fifth grade student in the same room. But they were able to teach all children. That’s one thing I like, one thing I think I’ve picked up, is being able to work with a child wherever they are. Everybody not college material. They





won’t go to college. But they are able to succeed in something, and that’s what I like about working with the preschools, and see were they are, and working with them.

	I:	I mean, from where you’ve started—and you’ve come full circle. Who doesn’t know about Lee’s preschool? And Ms. Lee, I think you’ve raised more children—! [Laughter] Honestly. And even with your teaching here, you know, and coming back and coming full circle when you look at the value of education, it’s so important. It is the key, still, to opening so many opportunities for any young person, any person, because education never stops.

	L:	Never.



	I:	So, we want to say thank you for coming back. Thank you Ms. Lee for being a part of this legacy and continuing on with what we’re doing here, and thank you.

	L:	I appreciate it. This has been great to be a part of. To look at education and see where we’ve come from, and what it’s going to take us to get even further. And we going to have to put ourselves into our books. And doing the best we can— that’s one of the things I say to my children in raising them: if you’re not an A student, I don’t expect an A. I always expect your best. Do the very best you can with what you have, that’s all I ask. When they come home with Cs, I say, is that your best? Just go, “Okay!” [Laughter]

	I:	Because it’s the expectation.



	L:	Yeah. So I expect the best, that’s all.



	I:	Well you know where Mebane is; you don’t have to be such a stranger. Because all I do is go across the street and get Ms. Lee! [Laughter]





	J:	Okay.



	I:	Thank you all so much! [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Juanita Duque, October 18, 2017 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, June 19, 2018

	Final edited by:	Ryan Morini, February 25, 2019