AAHP 539; Roberts; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 539 Stephen Roberts

Interviewed by Juliette Barbera on November 17, 2017 59 minutes | 26 pages



Abstract: In this interview Mr. Roberts talks about his time as the Director of the Institute of Black Culture (IBC). He goes into detail regarding his experiences that helped prepare him to become the Director of the IBC. Mr. Roberts also delves into his visions for the IBC and its future during his time as President along with some of his first memories of the IBC itself. He talks about how the space of the IBC was utilized amongst students and the challenges presented running and maintaining the institute.



Keywords: [Gainesville, Florida; University of Florida; African American History Program; African American History; Institute of Black Culture; IBC]



AAHP 539

Interviewee: Stephen Roberts Interviewer: Juliette Barbera Date: November 17, 2017





	B:	So hello.



	R:	I am sorry I got the fans running.



	B:	It will be fine, yeah. So hello my name is Juliette Barbera with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program on November 17th, 2017. I am with… want to state your name?

	R:	Stephen Roberts.



	B:	Thank you for agreeing to do this interview Stephen Roberts. Can I ask you to state and spell your full name?

	R:	S-T-E-P-H-E-N, R-O-B-E-R-T-S. Stephen Roberts.



	B:	And when were you born? It is just a little background information that we do. R:	I was born in [19]66.

	B:	Okay and do you know where you were born? R:	Where?

	B:	Yeah, where?



	R:	Miami, Florida.



	B:	Okay and do you have any siblings growing up? R:	Well, from my mother I am an only child.

	B:	Okay.



	R:	But I do have half brothers and sisters. B:	Okay, and where were you parents from? R:	Georgia.

	B:	Okay, so when did you become the Director of the IBC?





	R:	Was in 2000.



	B:	Okay and how long was that?



	R:	I was there for five years so from 2000 to 2005.



	B:	And what were your first experiences or impressions of UF?



	R:	I’ll say I had a historical knowledge of UF before coming here. Because I attended the other school in the other city and when I was there, we always got word of several incidents dealing with race, students that we knew here and some of their experiences attending UF which were every alarming to us and the most memorable one that I can recall was sometime during the late [19]80s. The University of Florida was spearheading the movement to start a White Student Union in protest against there being a Black Student Union and there were several PWI’s across the country that were actually watching this movement and potentially prepared to follow in UFs path. So fortunately it died out but there was a lot of challenges and flack that came from that and in particular that came towards Black Student Unions because at that point in time while disproving the need for a White student Union came the same challenge of proving the need for a Black Student Union.

	B:	And were there any training or experiences that lead you to become a director at the IBC?

	R:	I would say, my areas of study were counseling education psychology with a focus and minor in Black studies, Minority studies and some of my involvements in student organizations as an undergrad student and I’ll say my experience in dealing with underrepresented populations in my positons of employment leading





up to here as well as, we experienced we had an institute of Black culture at Florida State and we lost it.

	B:	Do you want to tell me a little bit more about that? R:	We lost it from inactivity.

	B:	Okay.



	R:	So we had Black Student Union house. And then we also had an Institute of Black Culture. I believe it was called “African,” it might have been called an “African Student Center” or something of that nature. And the intent of that was to really give more attention to some of the historical experiences of Africans, African Americans, people across the Diaspora and almost two houses down there was a Black Student Union. And we had a Black Student Union office in the union and so, there came a point in time when the university and particular looking for spaces and how those spaces are being utilized that both of our places came under fire of sorts as it relates justifying the use of those facilities, and of course students rallied around keeping the BSU house. But looking back, I do not think there was as much support through attendance to the African Culture Center. I believe the African Culture Center or something like that is what it was called.

	B:	Okay. Did you have a vision for the IBC when you came and its future? And did well over time?

	R:	I guess I did. I remember my assistant Dean at that time and we were talking about my vision for the IBC and I remember him saying— I almost remember his words verbatim, and he said “Stephen your ideas for the IBC are excellent,” and





he said “I am not telling you to discourage you but I am telling you this because I just want just to be very frank,” he said “Your ideas are very excellent.” He said “I am just not sure UF is ready for them.”

B:   So what were they?



	R:	Well my first thing was, in learning about the history of the IBC and well one of the things that I, in learning about the history in talking with different faculty and personnel here who will remain nameless, but it became evident that the perspective was that the IBC resulted out of a form of a appeasement for the Black Student Movement that was going on at that time. So when you had the mad exodus that was going on and the university was catching all types of negative publicity. There was the President. The university came back into negotiations with students and there was some things that were done. I was even told at one point in time this was actually by a White faculty member that asked me when I started off as the Director and said “Stephen do you know why it is called the IBC, the Institute of the Black Culture and not the Black Student Center?” And I said “No I do not”. And she said it was because the administration at the time did not want to earmark a place where the students who were a part of that movement would have to go and to meet. Which I thought was very interesting and this was not from a Black faculty member this was from a White faculty member. So I take everything with a grain of salt but my charge was in spite of all of that, the place said “Institute of Black Culture” and in my opinion an Institute of Black Culture is different from a Black Student center and a Black Student Center is a place kinda like at UCF. I think at UCF there is a center so it





was like you have a place where it houses the Director but then you have a space for all of the Student Organizations and they fit in there. But you say Institute of Black Culture, in my opinion that meant a place of learning. That was a place of passing on knowledge and then from that point that became my vision to, first of all to promote the rich history of the IBC because out of all the things we did know about when we were at Florida State, I didn’t know about the history of the IBC and I thought it was a tragedy that that story wasn’t shared. So that short story not having been shared with students who attended all them, I spoke to students who attended before I took the job, they did not know the full history of the IBC they never visited the IBC and they told me that they didn’t have time. They didn’t spend a lot of the time there and then also how to begin to promote that history to students that are coming in? Because otherwise the meaning the purpose and significance and having that building on campus will be lost from generation to generation as we continue to move and that was a concern. If anything set my vision it was when I learned about the Perdue Institute of Black Culture and that they have institute. They were taking students on week long study abroad trips to parts of Africa and learning trips and all of those things and I was amazed at what they were doing; virtual tours of the institute, so that when “You want to see what out institute looks like and you’re not here?” “That’s fine go online you can actually tour the institute,” it is virtual reality, they were doing this back in 2000. The Director was amazing. She spent time talking to me, and also the budget they received to be able to those programs, not only abroad but





also what she did on campus which made us a significant factor in teaching the history of people of African descent was amazing to me. So that set my vison.

	B:	What was your first memory of the IBC itself?



	R:	First memory of the IBC was, a place of turmoil and I say that because I had some knowledge of it, but what I walked into was a period of unrest between the Dean of Student’s Office and what appeared to be Black students and their dissatisfaction with the Dean of Student’s Office. They had just lost a director who they adored dearly and there was the IBC emissary in particular and from the information I was provided, which I have to take because I never spoke with the Director, but there was a huge concern related to the pay for the directors and there was a concern related to the inability of the director or of the Dean of Student’s Office at the time I guess to give any pay increase towards the director. And so, as a result with that and other areas that were points of contention, that director left. When that director left, the students that were more closely involved with the IBC really became disgruntled and they began to target their feelings towards the Dean of Students office so as a point of appeasement again and I got this from speaking with one of the associate Deans at the time. As a form of appeasement, what they did was they took one of the students that was a part of the emissaries and they created a Student Director position and they took one of the students and made them a Student Director over the IBC. I am just going to let that marinate for a moment. And I guess they thought that would bring these students in, but what it did was actually not only did it further separate the students from the Dean of Students Office but then it also gave the impression





that this institute now is being run, the budget, the expenditures, all of that was being controlled and determined by students for the most part. So when they brought me in and when they decided to go towards bringing in a new Director, then those students viewed me as a direct affront to student empowerment, student leadership. And I, my first year, almost year in a half, was dealing with these students writing letters of complaints to the Dean, to the Provost, to the President that that I was taking their budget. When I had my charge which was “this is an administrative staff person that is a part of UF that is governing the IBC,” and it appeared to be a large number of students, at one point in time I seen there was all students but I would give it to the leadership of— I’ll say he was the assistant Dean at that time Corey King, who was able to flesh through all of that and find out that it was really a small portion of students that were leading this charge and potentially having support from professional administrators, from just in the and just from the quality of letters that were written and all of those things. So it was a challenge. It was a challenge because having me there and then having me there potentially at a level that was higher than the previous Director was an insult and I had to understand that because in their eyes, had that been made available to the previous Director, then that Director would have probably still have been in that position. So the first year of experience my job in essence, coming to the University of Florida was to take the IBC back of sorts and to Administration which, based on some decisions that I personally believe that were made through the Dean of Student’s office that was later regretted.





	B:	Very interesting. And during your time did you meet any of the previous directors? And if so, what kind of things did they share with you about the IBC or the position itself?

	R:	I met one previous director. Like I said I met one previous director and that was a person who served as an interim so we really never— we had a small conversation, not an in depth conversation. Actually at that point in time I had the— I think it still stands. I think I still have the second longest tenure as Director at the Institute of Black Culture. But I reached out to a couple of directors and never got word back and then I found out just from conversations that they said “Stephen you gave to understand that according to their account all of the directors that had left that position, left that position disgruntled. In some cases with the University and definitely with the administration that they were dealing with at that time. Budget issues, when I came in, the IBC budget was about five thousand dollars annually. I think my heyday year I had eight thousand. What were we gonna do with all of that? [Laughter] And so coming in and being able to quickly realize what some of the challenges were and why they were leaving disgruntled and then also as I understood after I left the IBC according to some sources, as far they knew, that I am and was the only IBC Director who after leaving the IBC, remained with the University of Florida.

	B:	Yes I picked up on that, I was like, “He is here.” R:	Yeah.

	B:	Yeah.





	R:	So that just tells you, it kind of— I don’t know whether what’s true or not true but I will say that it almost seems to validate those statements.

	B:	One thing I wanted to ask that you kind of touched upon, you mentioned administration and so from what I had heard before that the IBC has been with different departments, different administrative agencies—

	R:	Well I don’t know about different departments. The department as I’ve known it now, to my knowledge the IBC had always been a part of the Dean of Student’s Office. Now it could have different much further back, but to my knowledge and when I came in I would say the other thing that was encouraging is that the support for the IBC in the form of Dean Sina, Corey King our Vice President of Student affairs Jim Scott you know and up to the president was the one thing that convinced me that I had made the right decision to come here, but so it was always up under Student Affairs to my knowledge. At least to my experience but if that I think I don’t know whether some things changed under recent years,

multi-cultural. I know they got different multi-cultural offices and how that changes and whether that still up under the Dean of Students office. I am not sure.

	B:	I guess what I was asking was— cause I heard MCDA came later, so I was wondering what the Division was when you were in the position?

	R:	It was the Division of Student Affairs. B:	Okay.

	R:	DSA and DSA was the umbrella for preview, what we now know as the disability Student resources fell up under there. All of Greek life fell up under there and





also what is it? Judicial… student judiciary conduct and all of these things fell up under there. And then there was the other unit which was multi-cultural affairs, I guess would have been the category under which the Institute of Hispanic and Latino Culture would have fallen, IBC, the when I came in they were doing campus climate assessment to assess the need for a Director of Asian Student Affairs and then I think that got delayed because what came from that assessment was a glaring need for services for the LGBTQ populations. So then the Asian students were a little disgruntled because they felt they were being bumped back again, so everything fell up under multicultural affairs.

	B:	Okay. And can you tell us about the IBC itself, basically how it was like?



	R:	It was a house. You walk in and well the way that and there was some disagreement from the way that it laid out as administration within the Dean of Student’s Office changed. But I pretty much left the IBC structure-wise the way that I found it. So you would walk into the IBC and then there was a desk there. There were two desks. There was a desk to the left which was for my executive secretary Ms. Alma Johnson. And then there was a desk in the front which was the student reception desk. And there used to be a TV and everything and all—I mean and so the only primary changes that I made were—First of all we were dealing with the image of the IBC. And so the image of the IBC that I wanted to address was that it was you know wanted to make sure that it was understood that this is a place for students but it is also a place of business. And so one of the things I noticed is our students are talking on their telephone when their telephone comes in and they can’t hear the call because the TV is playing, the





TV is too loud. We want students to come in and to definitely take part in the institute but then what was happening, I noticed that when you walk in, there would be like left over food, or crumbs, or there was spills on the floor right in the front. So in my mind this is the first image you see of the IBC. When you walk in you see this. So then what I did do I changed it to the point where my intent was… the down stairs was more heavily utilized, the upstairs was not. I wanted to move the traffic upstairs where we had more space. The layout of the IBC was different than La Casita. La Casita had less space upstairs, more space downstairs. We had less space downstairs more space upstairs. So I wanted my students to be focused on their jobs and to create a professional environment.

My perspective was what if the President walked in here at any moment what would be his or her impression of the IBC? And that’s why I began to change it. There were several changes that needed to be made. First of all it was like the appearance of the IBC when you walk in and then also how we utilized our funds? Before I began making any real changes in the IBC, I went back to look at our previous budgets because of course you cannot run an institute on five thousand dollars or even eight thousand dollars but at the same time when you begin to look back over your budgets and fifty percent or more of your budget is going towards food, well you don’t have a leg to stand on to say “We need more money.” And that is one of the things. But structure-wise you would walk in and then there’s the hall way that you would see before it is torn down, and then you go back in and the Directors office was right there to the left. There was space in the back which used to hold computers. I guess it was supposed to be our little





computer room. But the computers, I think Fred Flintstone had actually made all of those computers. They weren’t useful the students wouldn’t use them because they were too slow. So then I also went about getting the DSA that once we upgraded computers can we have some of those computers brought over to the IBC, it is not gonna be new age but it will be better. So those are some of the changes and I think also there was some African art, but not enough in my opinion. So the walls were too bare in my opinion and so one of the other things I added was, I went down to— actually the post office, they had a major printer in there. I found articles in these books that was pretty much got a lot of stuff from Dr. Betty Stuart-Dowdell and these big photo albums documenting the history of the IBC and they were locking these huge books. So I took copies and I took them down there and I blew them up and put them in frames and put them on the walls. So at the very least hopefully people will walk by them and begin to say “Wow this is what this came from.” And also I tried to create a perpetual plaque to give attention to the Directors that were before me. So I took their picture of the directors and their tenure, I don’t know what happened with that.

	B:	I didn’t see it.



	R:	Yeah. We’re trying to create a new one so… [Laughter]



Yeah. So but it was created. Who knows? I can say you would have to talk with Vee to see if it was there when…I don’t know. Actually it was in the Directors office so it would have been in if—I think she kept the same office. It would have been in the Director’s office.

	B:	And how was the space used by either students or other groups who came in?





	R:	So definitely it was a social space. We would definitely have students that would use the space upstairs for meetings. We had a library upstairs with what I considered really good books. But then as I began to go up there and understand these books and many of those books are potentially out of print we had no system. So it was all on the honors system you know? You check it out and hopefully you bring it down stairs and we sign it out to you. And so then I attempted to begin working with the library to actually adopt a portion of their system and have a scanning system that will be in use over at the IBC and also detectors on the doors so that if a book did happen to grow legs that, you know, we could. But because the other challenge was we had so many books. I would go and look for books that supposedly would be at the IBC and they weren’t there. And so that made it very difficult to get new resources when we couldn’t show that we were actually taking care of and being responsible for the resources that we had. And then there was a lounge area up there which had a big screen TV. And then in the back it was a pretty much supposed to be the conference room and then a little… what used to be the balcony for the IBC, like La Casita had but at some point in time the administration of La Casita closed that in and then and then it was back there they had African drums, but they weren’t taken care of so you afraid to touch them. But it’s like African artifacts and things like that which I felt should have been throughout the whole institute. So if that gives you a general—

	B:	Picture.



	R:	Yeah.





	B:	And do you consider IBC to a historically Black cultural space on campus?



	R:	Yes and no. For those alumni who made that sacrifice, which is a part of bringing about the University to where it is today. For them yes. And for the administration, students, faculty that understands the symbolism of what the institute stood for, yes. I don’t know for the general student population. There were students at where we were you know, getting to the point where they wanted to evaluate the use of the IBC and we were trying to get more students to come in and sign in, because we had a log book. You know sometimes students say “Well that’s just too far to walk,” but you’re right over there in Turlington. So I have to say I don’t know. But at the same time, I think that there was a lot there was a lot wanting in my opinion between, definitely an efforts of the IBC to get us our self-known. We began trying to partner with the Admission’s Office and we began asking questions. We noticed “When you do your tours, your tours are on the other side of the street but there is no attention that is given to the historic buildings that are over here”. But again you know when you are begging to promote the history of the IBC particular when we came up to the one hundred fifty year celebration, how was the IBC reflected in that? Even though it represented a bad time at UF but it still a part of UF history. So as well as the law school and the first Black student and all those things. So and that’s why Dr.

Betty Stuart-Dowdell created her book to try to acknowledge African American first at UF, because it wasn’t necessarily an opinion that a good enough job was being done in the larger scope of things.





	B:	And do you think the IBC offered something unique to the University of Florida when it was—

	R:	Oh yes.



	B:	And what would you mention about that?



	R:	Everybody knows, when you talk about segregation and integration and all of those things but it kind of gets dummied down. These students have an actual building, and actual space that represents the fight and it’s a result of the fight. And also I’ll say the sacra- how many students today, that there will be something that they believed in so much that in large mass, they would de-enroll from the University of Florida? And then to the point where that represented student sit-ins. Peaceful sit-ins, students being arrested as if they were criminals. So I think the history in of itself and as it relates to the sacrifices that were made to be able to give students the opportunity to get their education they are getting from one of the best institutions in the country, you can’t say enough about it.

Because as I understand from some of the articles, there were Black students on the football team and none of them participated in the protest. They felt like they had too much to lose and so the irony is that as the University made it’s attempts to appease the groups, those students from what I understand, the vast majority of those students who de-enrolled never came back. We had a couple that did so that the benefits from their efforts they never experienced. But for students who did not participate in the protest actually did. As far as University climate, moving towards a more inclusive climate, towards students of African descent, trying to





pushing the envelope as far as getting more Black faculty that reflect the identity of students, stuff like that.

	B:	And what was the campus climate when you were here? Were there anything that the students mentioned specifically that they were experiencing or the faculty and staff particularly?

	R:	I think the definitely one of the things that I knew was that walking on the— there is no perfect climate known to campus. I walked in saying that definitely tell that UF had made tremendous strides from the UF that I knew in the [19]80s. I don’t know that all students… you know in particular I think one of the things about that all of the students of color didn’t feel the need to pick up the banner of justice and equality and they were able to make their decision and maybe that is a sign well, you know, students people of color, or differences. Diverse people, depending on their experiences, have an option to pick up the banner of pushing for inclusiveness and diversity and equity. But it’s an option because you don’t have to, because you can basically still get an education. You may go through your own experiences, but you may not attribute them to race. So the only thing that I will say was one of the more significant things that did happen was really interesting. So it was September 10th 2001. I believe it was a Wednesday. The Black students were concerned and upset because some time that night that Tuesday night or whatever someone went around and posting these fliers and allegedly they were fliers from the KKK and these fliers went around and basically it was saying “Thank you to the Black community.” And the thank you to the Black community, what it did was it began to list all of the atrocities that go on





within the Black community, whether related to drugs whether it relate to Black on Black crime, education rates, all of those things and in essence the flier said “Thank you for doing our job for us.” But so as far as on an administrative level when it was it was brought to my attention and they said “Stephen what should we do?” I said “Well first of all I have to say this: That same letter was passed from when I was at FSU back in 1988.”

	B:	Wow.



	R:	And I said so we were up in arms as well and then we got to the point of saying “Hey, well you know would the KKK really post this? Because if all of this is going on they probably gonna be celebrating in quiet, or is it a potential coming from within the Black community trying to promote action?” Involvement, engagement, you know all of those things so we were putting together a plan to begin dealing with the level of growing unrest among Black students because they didn’t know where was this? And they are looking at what are we gonna do as an administration? And you know what the next day was?

	B:	Yes, I was gonna ask.



	R:	So when you begin to look at it from a perspective of Black students, and understandably so this major issue that happened within this campus at UF never was addressed because what came after it was a national issue. And at that point in time to be able to show your patriotism to this country all of the things went aside. That’s understandable, but again, that was an issue that for the most part that went unresolved from an administrative standpoint and I think the students worked through it or they suppressed it in whatever way because of





the larger concerns about the country. So that was one of the bigger things that I remember.

	B:	I don’t know if you might have heard about this but in the [19]90s there were an incident where IBC was vandalized and I heard the N-word was written on there.

	R:	I did hear about that. I think La Casita was too. Or actually years after that I think during my first or so the IBC was vandalized and then I think sometime during the 2000s La Casita was vandalized. I think with racial slurs and so forth and so on.

I heard about the incident at IBC I don’t know how it was dealt with. One thing I do know that with the incident with La casita it was dealt with immediately as it relates to sending maintenance, physical plant workers out there, well I’ll say this: as far as erasing you know the slurs, but then you still have this unrest that goes on within students and having to deal with that.

	B:	Were there any incidents in addition to this that you remember that happened during your time? Or is that the only one that stood out to you with the fliers?

	R:	The only other thing I remember we got to a point in time, I want to say it was between maybe 2002 to 2004 that there became a concern about the— so this was really was not a Black issue this was a woman issue, about the number of rapes and recorded date rapes that was happening on this campus. And it was to the point where the Dean of the Dean of Student’s office, the Vice President of Student Affairs began going around and having presentations and discussions with different classes, talking about this and talking about and trying to get to the point of… in particular talking to young men about the whole issue of date rape. The IBC partnered with, which was the counseling center at that time and we put





together a work shop if you will, that was dealing with— we had certain vignettes that we were going to have these young men walk though. Q and A discussions and we held that at the IBC to begin talking about those issues and we got push back initially from some female student organizations initially. Because of the fact that the workshop was being done by men. And I guess they had an issue, or they didn’t have faith in fact that men, even though we had count certified phycologists and so forth and so on that men could talk to men about date rape and so we had to have meetings with them, so forth and so on. I mean understandably when I was an undergrad we had White faculty that was teaching Black studies. And so for whatever reason like “Can you teach?” Well it’s a knowledge base, it’s a heart base this, and it doesn’t, didn’t make sense to say “You can’t teach Black studies because you’re White.” If it’s being done for the right reasons and its being done truthfully and based off of facts and its being done for impact so we had to go through that as well.

	B:	How did you learn about the history of the IBC? You kind of mentioned that in the beginning and yeah how did you learn about the Black history of UF in general?

	R:	Definitely it was through my interview so when I interviewed, I interviewed with it seemed like every department at UF. So it was it was a good experience though. I had an interview and breakfast with the Dean then I went and met with the DSA staff. Then I had interviews with students and I had interviews with ABFS Association of Black Faculty and Staff and it was through making some of those contacts that the history began. First it was shared orally and then I began reading it on myself and in particular when I found the actual literature and trying





to go out and find what’s left depicting of these articles. What’s left so it was more so from some of the articles that I found and a lot of the books and anything that I could find online and I realized it was becoming more and more difficult to find these things which is why I’ve tried to reproduce them.

	B:	Okay. And you mentioned Alma Johnson was the secretary at the time? R:	The Executive Secretary.

	B:	Okay Executive Secretary, can you tell me a little bit more about her? And her legacy?

	R:	In my opinion, and I had to come to this realization, I actually met with her about this, I would say she represents to me the body of knowledge about the Institute. She’s a very soft spoken woman. Ms. Johnson, she saw everything, but for the most part, unless it was really egregious, you go to Ms. Johnson but as far as the students loved her. So what she represented as throughout times or regardless of how the students felt about the Dean of Student’s Office or whoever the Director was at one point in time there was one there was one force of source—I would call her a “force” that was there that always drew students back to the institute and that was Ms. Alma Johnson. And so I remember after having been in the institute for about…I was going on two years and I met with her and I said “Ms. Johnson I just realized something,” she said “What’s that?” I said “I got one the greatest resources available to me that I am not utilizing and that’s you.” I said because she was there from the first Director. I said “So Ms. Johnson,” I said “You have seen every Director, you’ve seen what they’ve done that was successful what was not, you are the history of this place.” She was the walking





history of the IBC. And we tried actually to get her to Vee’s event. But she wasn’t able to make it out but she said she would definitely be willing if there was another event to come out. I would say that in particular looking back now, and I tried to begin to utilize that by talking with her about are there certain areas of the program that you would like to run? And I think that was the first time that shows how you know, if we don’t understand people it doesn’t matter the position. If your strategy is wrong and you’re not best utilizing all of your resources then your impact is going to be limited. And I went to her and I said “is there a program that you would like to run? I would like to turn it over and then use portions of the budget to run what you would like to run.” And I remember she looked at me and I said “Ms. Johnson, if I didn’t know better I would say that none of the Directors before me had ever come to you and said that before,” and she said “They haven’t.” And that’s ridiculous to me because it’s we had this force that’s here that was advocating in many instances on our behalf in circles that we could not. And to not empower her was ridiculous. Then she retired. Did she retire before or after I left? I can’t remember. You know but I spoke with her like I said when we had the event for Vee, and I tend to typically send her a “Happy Mother’s Day” text and stuff like that. But that’s your history, that’s your history. If you could get an interview with her

	B:	Yes. I was under the impression she had passed. But I am not sure. R:	No, no, not to my knowledge.

	B:	Okay, I’ll look into it.



	R:	She is enjoying retirement.





	B:	Okay.



	R:	And she’s put in her years here. But yeah that’s your that your history.



	B:	I’ll follow you up with some contact info. How are we doing with time? I am not sure if we are running out of time.

	R:	You’re fine.



	B:	Okay and so the IBC has like certain rooms, I know one of the room is named rooms are named after Alma Johnson. Like the areas, I wasn’t sure if that was—

	R:	That was probably done after me. B:	After? Okay.

	B:	So at this time I guess what we do is usually leave the questions open to you if there is anything that I did not touch upon that you would like to talk about? We could talk about that. Because I feel like you touched upon some of these questions listed here, I had skipped some. But if you think that we should.

		R:		No I mean if we run a little over you’re fine because I had a cancelation so... B:	Okay. Oh I see one here that I didn’t cover.

	R:	Oh?



	B:	Yeah so what prompted you to transition to this position, or I don’t know if you had a position before this one?

	R:	In my opinion, at that time was potentially a difference in vision of the IBC and for my vision for the IBC and the vision potentially of the Dean of Student’s Office at that time. I remember having a meeting. There was a new Dean that had came on and the Dean that came on, this was following Dean Sanah and I remember that the Dean met with all of the different areas and then so we had a lunch





meeting and we were talking about the institute and I remember after just getting an overview of what the IBC—hearing it from me, and then what I felt were the challenges and first thing that I went to I said was, I said “Budget.” I said “When you look at the needs and what this place should represent in my opinion to Black students on this campus,” I was able to do a conference. Two most impactful things I think I accomplished as far as being the Director. One, you know bringing the IBC back into the fold with the Dean of Student’s Office after they turned it over to students. Two, was bringing back what was a defunct Black Student Leadership Conference and that started under my tenure and that was going on even up under Vee’s administration she was making it bigger and better. And then my first year I was able to get some donations for that and from corporate. But I remember, going back to that conversation with the Dean at the time when I mentioned budget. Certain conversations I remember like they were yesterday. And so the response was “Stephen well as it relates to budget when I go and review, our records La Casita and the Institute of Black Culture are actually two of the most funded units within the Dean of Students Office.” So I don’t understand your saying as far as funding. And I said “In all due respect Dean,” I said “that is only case because as a standalone unit we have our own light bills, we have our own phone bills, we have all those things that come with being an entity standalone entity that is a part of the Dean of Students office but separate from it. So if you only want this to be a building that has lights and telephones and administrators in it then yes. I’ll be fine with that, saying we are the most we are one of the most heavily funded areas in the Dean of Students





office. But if you want programs to come out of this, and if you want student support programs to come out of this, five thousand dollars,” because that is what we get. Matter of fact I am sorry five thousand five hundred dollars I want to be fair. So fifty-five hundred dollars, that’s what we get annually to be able to do programs. And then the discussion came up about making a multi-cultural center and then that could have involved dissolving the institutes into the multicultural center. And there was an issue because the Directors, neither myself nor the Director of La Casita had been initially brought into that conversation. So we didn’t know anything about it. And, the students are coming to us saying “Hey, what’s going, we hearing this” and we are looking at them like “You’re telling us something.” So now the students have to be in a position of “Should we trust you? Do you know something that we don’t know and you’re not telling us?” And there were a lot of things that just it seemed like they weren’t thought about moving us over into the Union. My argument was “Okay, well you move us over into the Union, into the hub what that does it requires us to use Classic Fare” for all of our events, do you know the expenses if Classic fare?

	B:	Yes.



	R:	At least being right now of campus we have the option of supporting community vendors. Once we come on campus officially we cannot. So there were a lot of things. And event to, like I say the structure, the, you know it was almost to the point where the structure, the layout of the IBC being more like La Casita and again my thing was institute, I said “It says this is an institute of Black Culture. It is not a Black Student Center.” And to me there’s some things that should come





across that. I think there could have been some concerns. You know I was really about promoting the history, but then of course there are people who have the concern that promoting the history then that could get some students, maybe people you know, upset, angry because they find out what was done or what was. I don’t know, but I felt that my goal was that with the University of Florida one of the— I call it “the Ivy League of the Public Institution.” Everything that what we do should be top notch, including our institutes. And we should be able to rave about them as well as we rave about everything else on this campus. And at that point in my opinion the institutes were subpar. Again places like Purdue, University of Tennessee had just got a new, brand new spanking new, shiny institute. Then as we are talking about dissolving the institutes I started pulling articles of— there was a places out west where they had actually did it and then the students were coming back and complaining because it wasn’t working and them begging to say just because you people together don’t mean they are gonna get along. There has to be a higher intent and purpose behind that. So, I don’t necessarily believe that what I would have like to see the institute grow into after all those years… I know where I come from. I’m from Miami and the perspectives of UF were not favorable but at the same time my thought is, “If we can get this history out— these students fought, and it is the same thing. In Florida students of color had to fight for their place in a institution of higher education but that was such just a little known precious history and how do we build on that to the point where you can say “This is where it was but look at where we, the University of Florida have positioned our institutes at now.” And I





think that would have said a lot about not only just the history of UF but also where the university is itself.

	B:	Is there anything else you would like to talk about that we didn’t cover? R:	If you have any other questions I’ll answer any other questions you have.

	B:	Okay, none at this time, but I think maybe as I listen back I might have some more additional questions if you can

	R:	Okay



	B:	If you can do, so thank you again for this interview, it was very insightful R:	No problem.

[End of interview]









Transcribed by:

Wayne Selogy

February 19, 2018

Audit-Edited by:

Sandra Romero

August 15, 2019