AAHP 042; MacKey; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 042 Bernard MacKey African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on February 7, 2009 15 minutes | 8 pages



Abstract: Dr. Bernard Allen Mackey, from Jacksonville, was the first Fine Arts graduate of the University of Florida. He talks about the transition between segregated grade schools to integrated universities. At the time, there were no Black faculty, financial aid, or counseling for Black students. He also talks about Steve Spurrier and sports at UF. He discusses the band program, in which he played trombone and euphonium, and everything else that helped him succeed. Finally, considers the future of the institution in diversity and overall prominence.





Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida; Celebrate the Firsts; Integration]















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



Project Code: AAHP 042 Interviewee: Bernard MacKey Interviewer: Marna Weston

Date of Interview: February 7, 2009



	W:	This is the Celebrate the Firsts Weekend Gala at the University of Florida in Emerson Hall. I’m having the honor of speaking with Dr. Bernard Allen MacKey, the first Fine Arts graduate of the University of Florida.

	M:	Pleased to be with you.



	W:	Well, go Gators. And thank you for being here. You must have some really important reflections upon your time at the University of Florida, and your time now—what are you feeling right now about being here?

	M:	Well, I really want to thank the University of Florida for its foresight in bringing together the first graduates in all of the colleges. I’m really very honored to be here; I’m quite pleased that the University has an understanding of the importance of recognizing some of its past deficiencies in a way that will allow it to move forward and help society bring forth the students who can help cure some of the discriminatory ills that are still there. So, I’m very pleased to be here, I’m honored to be here, and I’m sure it’ll be a grand occasion.

	W:	What are your hopes for today’s students at the University of Florida—whether they be African American, Latino, White, or, we have people from all over the world here?

	M:	Sure. Well, I think that the University’s mission, part of it, is to help those students learn how to be citizens of the world. Their global responsibilities—and they will be global—I think are going to be well-learned here at the university, and my hope for them is twofold, really. I would hope that they would study very hard, be successful academically, but also enjoy their time at the university socially.





This is a time when you can do things that you won’t be able to do again for as long as you live! [Laughter] And so, my wish for them is that they enjoy that time, but while they’re doing it, prepare to become leaders in a global sense. Global literally and global figuratively: my hope would be that they would learn how to be worldly citizens, so they can help—through the institution, and through their own actions, locally and globally—help us to move forward and have a better life.

	W:	Do you have a personal reflection of your time here at the University of Florida that you would think also resonate with today’s student?

	M:	Personal reflection. Well, I think some of my reflections are very, very different in terms of what life was like for a University of Florida student in the early to mid- [19]60s, compared with the life that students have now. It may be useful to recall the fact that in those early days, there really was a huge transition to be made for students who were coming from essentially segregated grade school situations, as I did from Jacksonville. There was a rather enormous culture shock, both economically and socially. I think we were a lot less prepared then perhaps we thought we were to enter into a society that had been very foreign to us. And so, many of us struggled quite a bit just to be able to understand how to work through the environment of the institution. There were many differences of course: there were no African American faculty or professional staff. The African Americans that we saw on the campus were custodial staff in the residence halls. Beyond that, there were few services that actually recognized that there were some special needs that students might have had at that point in time— counseling, financial aid, those kinds of things were just not present. They are





now, and that’s a great thing. So where there was quite a different life in the early [19]60s, there was one nonetheless, and I would hope that the students today would understand how important it is to be successful, to persevere, and move through their own struggles in the way that those of us did who were here earlier on.

	W:	The University of Florida is facing unparalleled in success in name recognition, not only in the United States but around the world, as a top-quality institution of learning, and the things that you did here helped pave the way for that. What do you think a University of Florida student right now, looking at all the success with football and basketball and all these things, what do think they should be thinking about in terms of choosing a college, a place to go to?

	M:	Well, I think several things. I think those high school students who are looking at a place to go to college, really are going to be attracted to the University of Florida for all of the reasons that you just mentioned. Certainly, its prominence in the top fifty academically across the nation is a great thing. And it’s very difficult to be unaware of its prominence in basketball and football, and I resonate with that as well. I happened to be here during the time when Steve Spurrier won the Heisman Trophy. I remember him a little bit differently than the old ball coach; I was actually enrolled in a class with good Coach Spurrier. We understood that he was having special tutoring, so we didn’t see him a lot in the classroom. [Laughter] But that didn’t seem to hold him back very much. He was an outstanding football player, and student of the game, and supporter of the institution. I think that my pride in the University of Florida runs very, very deep. I





probably would bleed orange and blue if I had a cut right now, having graduated from the university twice; it’s really, I think, the premier institution in the state, and one of the premier institutions nationally. So, students who might be looking at a place to go ought to come to Florida, and those who are here, ought to graduate from here, and simply go forth and prosper internationally.

	W:	Celebrate the Firsts recognizes the first fifty-year anniversary of integration at the University of Florida. What do you see happening in the next fifty years?

	M:	Oh, gosh! I—that’s a wonderful question, and I wish I had a wonderful answer for you! [Laughter] I’m not sure that I can foresee quite that far out. But what I would suggest is that the University of Florida’s current prominence, nationally and internationally, is probably going to grow. Being in the top fifty in the nation is fine, and being one of the institutions in the American Association for Universities is great, but that prominence will just continue to grow, and it’ll continue to develop as an institution that is world-renowned. I think it will find that it has a limit to the number of students it wants to bring in. I don’t know what that number is, but I’m guessing that, given particularly the state of the economy as we see it right now, Florida and a number of other states are going to continue to have to work on doing more with less. A lot of times, what that means is it’s an opportunity for honing the excellence that you have already. Growth, I think, in the next fifty years won’t be quiet the momentous leap that we have seen in the past. I think that growth will trail off; I would guess sixty to sixty-five thousand students really ought to be enough for my alma mater. But, we’ll see how that





goes. I don’t think I’ll be around fifty years from now, to have to live with this prediction, so I’m feeling a little bit better about giving it to you now. [Laughter]

	W:	Thank you very much for your perspectives. Dr. Bernard Allen MacKey, 1968 Fine Arts Graduate of the University of Florida with his first degree, and then went ahead to achieve his doctorate at the University of Florida as well. Thank you very much for speaking with us.

	M:	Thank you very much for having me, pleasure. [Break in recording]

	W:	Dr. MacKey, you talked about foundations, and your ability to succeed here at the University of Florida. And I’m guessing from part of your questions that you feel that you’re standing on the shoulders of others. Could you reflect on some of those contributions that helped establish your foundation here?

	M:	Sure. I think you’re absolutely right about that. I am most impressed with the foundation I received at home from my mother and father. My father passed away about five years ago. And he was proud then, and he’s still proud now, I’m sure. My mother is with me tonight. And she is a great spirit of the Universe, and I think laid a foundation for me in terms of helping me understand the value of hard work and tenacity. Tenacity and perseverance, more than anything else, that helped me get through many of the tough times. I think more than that, she was a beacon of support when some of the times were more tough than I thought I was going to be able to handle. So, my mom, Mary MacKey, I think is going to have a wonderful time tonight. She will continue to enjoy the fruits of her labors. And I think it’s important to recognize too, the grade school teachers that I had all





throughout elementary school, and junior high, and high school, who were there for those of us who needed to go out into a world and make a way for ourselves, where that world was at times not very inviting. And in fact, instilled to—those people, those teachers instilled in us the foundation on which we could move forward to get though life and all of its ups and downs. And I think those people were very important. And I think, as well, at the University, especially during my undergraduate years, there’re several faculty who were here, who were instrumental in my ability to succeed. Richard W. Bowles, was director of bands, and professor of music, and was my music instructor on trombone and Euphonium. And he was just a wonderful mentor for me, both inside the classroom and out, as was his wife. Had it not been for Professor and Mrs.

Bowles, I’m not quite sure I would’ve made it through that program. There were a number of other faculty: Reid Poole, and Dr. Kitts, who were also very helpful to me in helping understand the opportunities that I had in front of me. And then, I don’t want to forget as well, quite a number of the students. I think I was bolstered rather substantially because I was in the music and fine arts community at the university. Many of those students were extraordinarily supportive in a way the general student body was not. And so, for the Mike Stambaughs, and the Barbara Ebersoles of the world, wherever you are, thank you very much. I remember you, and I very much appreciated their support in helping me understand that I could be successful in what previously had been a rather foreign kind of culture. So, it was a great experience at Florida. I wouldn’t have traded it for anything.





	W:	Many of the—well, who we define as foot soldier/veterans of your era, talk about your struggle, and how the struggle continues today.

	M:	Yes.



	W:	Do you feel that that struggle is in some way—well, tonight. How does tonight help you feel about that struggle?

	M:	Well, I think we have come a long way in terms of dealing with the struggle. I think the struggle now has a different definition. We now have a person of color who is President of the United States. Well, I never thought that I would see that in my lifetime, or even in my son’s lifetime. But, here we are. And that is an indication that there is much progress being made against that struggle. But the struggles are still there, they’re just different kinds of struggles. We have continuing discrimination—nationally, we have it locally, we have it internationally—and we need to continue to help ourselves fight against any discriminatory behavior. Whether it’s on the basis of race, or sex, or national origin, or any of those kinds of discriminatory behaviors. That struggle continues. And my hope would be that students of the university will understand that, embrace the challenges and the opportunities, and just help us do it better.

	W:	Dr. MacKey, when where you born?



	M:	Oh my gosh, can I remember back that far? 1947. W:	And the day and date, please?

	M:	February 25th.



	W:	And where were you born? M:	In Augusta, Georgia.





	W:	Well, thank you so very much for the interview. This has been marvelous to share the reflections as they’ve just poured from you. It’s been really great for me to be here with this as well.

	M:	Well, thank you so much for having me. Pleasure to meet you. [End of interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, April 18, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019