AAHP 524;; Leonard Spearman Jr, Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 524 Leonard Spearman Jr African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Ebony Love on October 7, 2017 14 minutes | 11 pages



Abstract: Leonard Spearman Jr attended the University of Florida from 1971 to 1975 where he finished with a Liberal Arts degree in Psychology. Mr. Spearman talks about his decision process to attend UF along with the warnings given to him by the Black Student Union Association located in Gainesville. He also goes into detail about his involvement with the founding of the Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity.



Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Black Alumni; Gainesville; University of Florida]























































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 524

Interviewer: Ebony Love Interviewee: Leonard Spearman Jr Date: October 7th, 2017



	L:	Hello I’m Ebony Love with Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. Today is Saturday October 6, and we at the Association of Black Alumni brunch. I am with mister…

	S:	Leonard Spearman, Jr.



	L:	And he was an attendee of UF during the years of… S:	1971 to 1975.

	L:	Okay. So Mr. Leonard can I get your birthdate and where you were born?



	S:	Well it’s October 7th and my birthday is February 22nd, 1954. I was born in Tallahassee, Florida on campus of Florida A & M when they had a hospital.

	L:	Oh wow that’s great! [Laughter] S:	Nobody knows that.

	L:	I actually did not know that. So you were born at FAMU. Do you know your parent’s education like where they went?

	S:	Yeah, my parents, both my parents went to Florida A & M. My father got a masters and a PhD from the University of Florida. One of my grandmothers got her degree from Bethune-­Cookman. The other one got her degree from Talladega College.

	L:	Okay what was your father’s name? S:	Leonard Spearman.





	L:	Oh so you’re the junior and your son... okay I got it. It makes sense now. And your mother’s name?

	S:	Valeria. V-­A-­L-­E-­R-­I-­A Spearman



	L:	Okay and what did your dad get his PhD in? S:	Clinical Psychology.

	L:	Clinical Psychology okay, so that’s your dad. That’s your mom, so you… What did you come to the University of Florida to study?

	S:	I came to actually study architecture. However, the school of architecture didn’t think I was good enough to be an architect, so I ended up majoring in psychology. I finished with a degree a liberal arts degree in psychology.

	L:	What made you choose UF instead of FAMU?



	S:	Well, my sister told me never to tell anyone the real reason. I’m a football fanatic, a sports fanatic, and one bowl game I saw the University of Florida playing a game. I saw a wide receiver who I thought was one of the best wide receivers in the country, Carlos Alvarez. I said “I want to go to the University of Florida.” I was in Baton Rouge at the time, so I wanted to go back to Florida. I always loved Florida, and that made me want to become a Gator.

	L:	Okay so prior to you coming to UF, what had you heard about the school?



	S:	Well, I’m glad you asked that because after I got accepted and the day I graduated, I got a letter from the University of Florida Black Student Union Association. He became one of my fraternity brothers, but he sent and said “Do





not come to the University of Florida. It’s one of the most racist schools in the country.” They had just took over Steven C. O’Connell’s office, you probably have read that, and a lot of them got put out on suspensions and I was going down there that summer. My dad and I had our own conversation and he said “Are you sure you want to go?” I said, “I’ll see what it’s like this summer if I don’t like it I’ll come back to Washington.” I was then in Washington, D.C., and maybe comeback, but I wanted to try it out this summer. I came down with a truck that summer and I ran into the best group of Black students that I could ever think of. We had a great summer together. We’re still as tight as ever. Moved into the fall, and spent four good years together. I had no problems. I don’t think I had ever encountered any racial problems to be honest. Our Black group, as you heard in there, we met in Little Hall. We had a lot of comradery. In fact, I was on the original Kappa line. I think you might had interviewed Bernard Cohen.

	L:	I was about to ask. Just to clarify, you are a member of Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity Incorporated.

	S:	I’m member of Kappa Alpha Psi, charter member. L:	Charter member okay.

	S:	We formed it.



	L:	Yes, first at UF.



	S:	Yes, first at UF, and I was Bernard’s best man. He was our first president. They asked us if we wanted other fraternities on campus, we said “Of course.” This is… yeah, so the Alphas and the Omegas came out probably the following





spring. We went to football games together in block seating. I ran for Chief Justice of the traffic court, and I lost. I was involved in Student Government Savant at the time. Bernard and I, I don’t know if he said it, but we both got black balled out of Blue Key. They weren’t really accepting Black members at the time, but eventually we both got in. When my daughter was here, she got me in as, I guess, an honorary Blue Key member as an alumnus so I still have fond memories of the University of Florida.

	L:	Okay so, just going back a little if that’s okay. S:	That’s fine.

	L:	Okay so, you came in the summer of… S:	[19]71.

	L:	Okay so you came in the summer of [19]71 and this was after the events in February with the Black Thursday protests and everything like that. So you came in the summer of [19]71 and that’s after you got the letter from, do you remember the name?

	S:	Clarence Martin.



	L:	Clarence Martin that said that the University of Florida had a racist environment and everything like that. You came in summer of [19]71 and you met Bernard Cohen. Is that when you met him?

	S:	Yeah, I met him that summer. I met him and his Maxine. We were in the class. Bernard was in the class before me. It was the largest incoming Black freshman





class that came into the program. So yes, I met Bernard and so many others. My roommate, my eventual roommate, we weren’t roommates that summer but Fred Ganes, who is an attorney in Pensacola, Sam Wright, just retired from South Florida, James Miller, who is in Atlanta. We still to this day talk to each other almost every other week, and hang out together when we get the chance.

	L:	That’s great.



	S:	And we all are Kappas too. L:	Yeah.

	S:	Of course, we lived on campus. We lived off-­campus. Very few people had cars, but I’ll stop if you had another question. We can hear from you because I can just ramble. [Laughter]

	L:	No it’s okay. We want hear your story. So you came you in summer of [19]71. When you came in, you keep saying a program. Was it a specific program that targeted…?

	S:	It was.



	L:	What’s the name of it?



	S:	That’s a good question. I can’t think of the name it. I really can’t think of the name of it, but Clorine Brown was our councilor at the time. Reverend Randolph Gracy out of Orlando, some people may know him, was at the University, but yes there was a program.

	L:	Do you know if it may have been AIM? Does that ring a bell?





	S:	Wasn’t AIM



	L:	Okay so it wasn’t AIM okay. There were programs specifically targeted towards Black Students and getting them enrolled and feeling comfortable at UF. In that program, were there anything that helped you – you that you were an architect major but you switched over to psychology but that was more of a school thing-­ were there things in that program that helped you or would have help you stay in the architecture program, or was that something else entirely.

	S:	It was tough in architecture because there was no mentor for me in architecture. I had taken a lot of architecture courses in high school, but I didn’t have that mentorship that I saw the other kids in my class have. When they were given a project and how they’d came back, and I looked at their project compared to mine. So outside of the testing that we did in the program, you know we did constant testing and retesting, in key areas like history and all that, nothing specifically in architecture.

	L:	Because you couldn’t find a mentor in architecture, were you able to find a mentor on campus in any other sector?

	S:	Not really. We weren’t mentors. We were just partners to lean on. Bernard and I took Spanish together. Fred and I took Political Science together and these kind of courses. But there was no one who… Clarence became a mentor in physics when I was trying to get in architecture. That didn’t help me. [Laugher]

	L:	Okay.





	S:	You don’t have to put that on there, but he was the biggest mentor if I want to say. But we just didn’t have mentorship around here.

	L:	Okay. Did you ever have a faculty or teacher of color teach you while you were here?

	S:	No.



	L:	Do you know if there were a majority of White, Black, Asian, male or female, your professors.

	S:	Majority White male. Almost ninety. I can’t even recall a female unless it was the Spanish teacher, but most of them were White males. When I said I didn’t have any racial issues, one made a disparaging remark I thought, but it really just flew over my head when he said it. Humanities was a required course, and I had just come back from a trip to Europe, and we were talking about the Mona Lisa and all those different statues and paintings. I raised my hand and said, I just finished seeing all those things. He said, “Yeah I bet,” or something like that you know.

So, yeah. [Laughter]



	L:	So, I’m going to switch gears just a little bit. S:	Switch gears.

	L:	So I know that the Kappas on campus have a really good reputation for being politically active. Did you do anything on campus or off-­campus that would help either recruit Black students on campus or fight racial tensions either in the community or on campus?





	S:	On campus, you know, it was kind of – I hate to even say this word, but maybe a hostile environment. You know you’re the college kids and you’re not the college kids once you’re off campus, so you probably didn’t do much off-­campus at the time. But on campus, we tried to be mentors and leaders and that’s what helped us get more brothers into the bond. They saw Bernard and I being student government leaders and Sam and several of. We had a lot of guys on the football team and basketball players. They saw role models in many of the players.

	L:	I’m going to read a list of names and can you tell me if you’ve either heard of them or know then. Then, I’ll go into questions a little bit later.

	S:	Okay.



	L:	James Scott.



	S:	I’ve heard of him. I didn’t get to know him because I think he came a little after, but he’s dean I believe.

	L:	Okay.



	S:	Oh you want me to just say yes or no. [Laughter]



	L:	No! No. No. It’s fine. I don’t think any of these you would know personally, but I’m going to ask just in case, Pam Bingham.

	S:	Unh-­um.



	L:	She was the first Black female student body president. She came a little bit after you.

	S:	She was the first Black? I thought it was someone else





	L:	Well female.



	S:	Well I thought it was another president, female before her. But okay, I don’t remember her.

	L:	Okay. Was the Black Student Union here when you got here? S:	Yes.

	L:	Okay and what was that like for you. Were you involved in it or was it just something that was passing?

	S:	It was just something. I didn’t get involved.



	L:	Okay. Do you know anything about Jackie Hart?



	S:	I heard the name, but I don’t know anything about her.



	L:	Okay she was a discrimination officer on campus, and her family owns the [Inaudible 11:19]. I think those would be the only people that you would know. But are there any notable people on campus either student faculty or staff that made an impact on your life that you would like to –

	S:	Sam Taylor



	L:	Sam Taylor?



	S:	Do you have anything down [laughter]? He was the first Black student body president.

	L:	Okay Sam Taylor okay.





S:   While he was president… I was always involved in politics even in high school, so I just looked up to him as wanting to be involved in politics here at University of Florida too.

	L:	Were you in SG?



	S:	Mm-­hm. I didn’t win a senate seat, but I took a senate summer seat. As I said, I ran for chief justice of the traffic court and lost by ninety-­seven votes. I’ll never forget that.

	L:	But it’s okay you know, trying, you can’t get anywhere without it. S:	That’s right.

	L:	So Sam Taylor okay. Anything else that you would like to know that I may not have asked about?

	S:	I’m fortunate to have two children who finished at the University of Florida. My daughter did in [20]04 and my son in [19]16. I was the ABA past president. I was Houston Gator Club past president, and I was National Alumni past president in [20]06. I’m still involved in the Alumni Association. It’s, you know, everybody known in Texas that Leonard Spearman is the number one gator out there, so I am very… I love this university and I love the student and everything associated with it.

	L:	If there was anything that you could change about UF, is there anything that you would change, first of all? If there is, what would it be?





	S:	Change. I wish there was an ability to have more students get here. I know that’s a high standard because I’m out there with UT and you know they have a high standard too. More students. More Black students here to experience this, and to get more Black students involved after graduation. That has been a challenge ever since I was the president.

	L:	I completely understand. Well, I want to take the opportunity to thank you for taking your time to give us an interview. And again correction on the date, it’s October 7th, 2017, not October 6th. Thank you so much!

	S:	[Laughter] thank you.











[End of Interview]



Transcribed by:

Kelly Richardson;;

June 10, 2019

Audit-­edited by:

Sandra Romero

June 12, 2019

Final-­edited by:

Sandra Romero

May 13, 2020