AAHP 618; Davis; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 618 Ronald Davis 8-15-2018 Interviewed by Julian Valdivia on August 8, 2018

56 minutes | 31 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Black Fort Myers elder Ronald Davis recalls his life for interviewer Julian Valdivia. Davis was born in 1947 in Evansville, Indiana. His father, a World War II veteran in the Army Air Corps, worked at a telephone company at the time of his birth. The family moved to Fort Myers, Florida when Davis was still a child after a physician advised his mother to move to a warmer climate. His mother became the secretary for Riverside Baptist Church, where she remained for twenty-two years, and his father earned employment with a local phone company. Davis attended Edgewood Elementary School in Fort Myers. He went on to attend junior high at James Stephens Middle School—formerly called Lee Junior High—an institution he later became the principal of. Davis went on to attend Edison Junior College before graduating from the University of Florida. Though he was offered a fellowship to continue his education in computer science, he was informed of the draft board’s decision to draft him unless he willingly enlisted into the service or obtained an occupational exception. He landed a job as a math teacher at Bradford County Middle School, where he began his lifelong career as an educator. He taught school for five years in Maryland while earning a master’s degree. Davis began teaching in Fort Myers in the late 1970s, where he remained until he retired.





Keywords: [World War II, Fort Myers, Black community, Lee County, educator, principal, teacher, school, segregation, integration]



AAHP 618

Interviewee: Ronald Davis Interviewer: Julian Valdivia Date: August 15, 2018



	V:	Okay, this is Julian Valdivia, with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. I’m sitting today at the Lee County Black History Society in Roberto Clemente Park, speaking with?

	D:	Ronald Davis, from Fort Myers, Florida.



	V:	Alright Ron. Thank you for speaking with me today. The first thing I want to ask for the ease of the transcriber is how do you spell your name?

	D:	R-O-N-A-L-D. My middle name is Earl, E-A-R-L, my last name is Davis, D-A-V-I- S.

	V:	Okay, perfect. And where were you born and what year was it? D:	Born in 1947 in Evansville, Indiana.

	V:	Okay. And can you tell me about growing up, like who your parents were, did you have siblings?

	D:	Yeah. We lived in southern Indiana, which is basically right across the Ohio River from Kentucky, and I was born in Evansville. My dad worked for the telephone company, and we lived in south Indiana, and my mother and father were both born in southern Indiana, and they went to high school together. My father dated my mother’s sister. In 1941 they both graduated from high school at the same night. They were in the same high school, twenty-six kids graduated. My father stood next to my mother, and he told me they were secretly holding hands. I looked at the picture, and even though they weren’t girlfriend and boyfriend. And





June [19]41 my dad and mother graduated from high school, Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor in December of [19]41. My dad was drafted before he’d been out of high school a year, and my mother joined the WAVES near the navy. And so she became a secretary and worked in Washington D.C., and my dad went into Army Air Corps, and he worked in the communications. We learned a lot about the telephone systems and radios. He came out, he went to work with a company that was installing telephone systems all around southern Indiana. And then my other had trouble with sinuses, and so they went on a vacation. I guess I was in third grade, and they came down here. They went to Florida and they visited some friends on the East Coast, and then my dad didn’t like it on the East Coast. He came across over to the West Coast, and the way the family story goes is he

— my dad was with him, my two younger brothers were up there with my grandparents. He said, “If I can get a job here, I’m gonna move here.” And I asked him about that several times, and each time he told me a little more about it, but I don’t want to go into much detail, because it would take a long time. To make a long story short, he went to [inaudible 3:05] drugstore downtown, he asked the waitress who’s in charge, where the local telephone company, she says, “You’re in luck, it’s in the building behind us.” So my dad said, “Well, we’ll go ahead and order.” And then we went ahead and ate lunch, and my mother and I sat there, and he went back to talk to them, and when he came back he had a job. He said, “When can you report?” They wanted him in two weeks, he says, “No I can’t be here till November.” So he had to go sell the house and pack up and get down here. So the availability of jobs and homes and a climate that





was hopefully helpful to my mother’s health, was what brought us here. And I consider us to be immigrants. We moved from what is a southern part of the northern part, it’s right across the line from Kentucky, which you know, some Kentuckians fought for the North, some fought for the South in the Civil War, but people in southern Indiana sounded like and acted like and behaved a lot like people from Kentucky. And a lot of people from southern Indiana came from Kentucky, like Abraham Lincoln’s family moved from Kentucky to southern Indiana, went through [inaudible 4:27] and later on, to Illinois. But that’s the area that I’m from. When I got down to Fort Myers, got into school, I went to Edgewood Elementary School, my dad worked for the phone company, my mother eventually became a secretary for Riverside Baptist Church. My dad spent his whole career down here in Florida with the same company, and my mother worked for the church for twenty-two years. And we walked to school, I had a lot of memories, a lot of things I know you want to talk about, about education — that’s part of the reason I wanted to talk to you, and I know you wanna know how the picture is, but I consider myself to be an immigrant coming to a place that was kinda different kind of culture than I was used to. We lived up north in a rural area. I mean we can only see one house from where we were.

We’re out of the country, and my dad drove in the city to work. My mother stayed home with me and my two brothers. We moved out here, we were in suburbia in east Fort Myers, and we walked about three quarters of a mile to school. And right down Edgewood Avenue, Edgewood Elementary School.





	V:	Oh wow, okay. So I wanna ask then, did you and — you do have siblings correct?

	D:	I do. Two younger brothers, I’m the oldest of three.



	V:	Okay. Did you and your siblings enjoy the move to Fort Myers, or did you want to stay in southern Indiana?

	D:	No, I was so young, I lived out in the country anyhow, so I didn’t have neighbors or little friends that I played with and everything. We were happy. It was okay moving to Florida. Didn’t have a problem. It wasn’t like we were in high school or middle school and you have those connections for multiple years.

	V:	And what was it like—



	D:	Okay, well we did give up those. We gave up being close to our extended family. My mother’s family, my father’s family, we’re all from southern Indiana. And every summer when my dad got a two weeks’ vacation, we would always go back home. And so most of my cousins weren’t there, I had like sixty cousins. My mother was one of nine kids, and she was the oldest woman, so I had lots of younger cousins. I was the third oldest one. So we had a reunion, and they all tried to get back every other year, but we always looked forward to our summer vacations because we weren’t going anywhere. We knew where we were going every year, and it was a good experience. We did give up that relation— those relationships with our family, where you would go to dinner every Sunday evening or once a month or birthdays, or all that. It did have an effect on — that’s why I do consider an immigrant, even though I immigrated within the United





States, it’s a long way. And if you’re in Europe you’d be [laughter], you would be in a different country if you went that far.

V:  I wanted to ask about the trip down to Southwest Florida, like how did you make that trip? Was it by car, and then you used the highway system? Or I don’t think we even had the highway system yet in the [19]40s.

D:   I-75 was not done. We came down 41. 41 actually goes right through Evansville.



But it was a two-day trip, and not a one-day trip, and I was pretty young, so I don’t remember exactly how we got down here, but I do know that when we came down here for the move, my dad — we didn’t have the furniture. We drove down here in his car, and our furniture came down like a month later. And so my dad had called my grandfather, his dad, and he loaned him money to make a down payment on the house, and we didn’t have any furniture, so the people he worked with loaned him furniture. And I remember this really well. I slept on a cot, like an army cot, with the wood on each side, and the canvas. And in the living room floor tables, we had cardboard boxes. Some people loaned us some lamps, loaned us some chairs, and we basically were kinda camping out, I guess you could say, for a couple months. And I still remember how excited my mother got when our furniture finally arrived. She knew the furniture was coming that day, and that morning in fact. And she put me out in the front yard to watch for the big Mayflower furniture — moving van truck— that was coming in. So when I saw the truck come down one road, it had to turn right to come to our house, but it turned left and went the other way. And I never saw my mother run before. I’d never





seen my mother run out in the yard and go, “Hey!” And I’m just a little guy, [inaudible 9:44.] So I knew she was real excited about getting her furniture.

	V:	And when you moved here, were a lot of the neighbors and things like that, were they also people who came from the North or were they locals?

	D:	Well, there were some older people that I believe had been there — well they were retired people. There were people who had got — I don’t know exactly where they came from, but they were recent arrivals to that whole subdivision was made up of new homes, and a lot of homes were under construction. Like on both sides of it, there was no houses; in a year or two there were. And pretty much the whole place filled up, but when we moved there, there wasn’t that many of us.

	V:	Okay. And you went to Edgewood Elementary you said? D:	Yes, Edgewood Elementary School.

	V:	Could you tell me about that a little bit?



	D:	Yeah, it was an old school. And when I say old, it was made out of brick, it had — I remember a lot of detail about it. It was the kind of school that was two stories, and the upper grades were on the higher stories. It had wood floors, it had wooden window sashes, it had windows that you had to lift up like this, and it had wood whatever you call [inaudible 11:12] where you open the windows up and then there’s like a plane you can lean out like that. Okay, there was no screens on it or anything. I remember taking a magnifying glass and trying to chase ants around on that. There was no air conditioning or anything like that, it





was just an old style school with stairs on each side and an auditorium that went back, and then there was a separate building for lunch.

	V:	Okay. Do you remember how many students were in your class?



	D:	Actually I think [sighs], I may have a picture of one of my classes. I’m not sure which one it is, but we do have some in one of my brother’s class I know. But ironically, when I came back to work here as a math teacher, the guy that was my sixth grade teacher was the superintendent of schools. Ray Pottorf was his name.

	V:	What was his name again?



	D:	Ray Pottorf. When we had this meeting with new teachers at the beginning of the school year, I reintroduced myself. Said, “I already know who you are, you probably don’t know who I am,” but I told him who I was, I said, “I was in your sixth grade class in Edgewood Elementary School when you were a teacher there.” He goes “Oh no.” [Laughter] And I told him about a couple stories, but yeah, it was a very small community at the time. You could get anywhere in fifteen minutes.

	V:	Oh wow. Okay. So I was kinda curious, because I mean you’re the first person I’ve interviewed from out of Dunbar, and I want to know, was there any kind of interaction with the Black community here beyond— I mean I know people went to work in downtown Fort Myers and stuff like that, it’s like repairmen, domestics and stuff like that. But —





	D:	The first time I ever remember actually having a conversation with a Black person was at Edgewood Elementary School.

	V:	Oh okay.



	D:		I don’t remember what grade it was, but my teacher sent me to the custodian to get something. Maybe an eraser? The new eraser, or something. But they sent me to his office. His office was in the back of the auditorium. The reason I remember this so well is because when I got to his office, it smelled like cigar smoke. And it reminded me of my grandfather. My grandfather was a cigar smoker, and when I got there, I could smell as I was getting close to the room. But when I got in there, it was a Black person. I remember just looking [laughter], you know? That was the first time I had — because we were in segregated schools. There wasn’t anybody around that I encountered, riding my bicycle or in my neighborhood, or I can’t even remember anybody at stores that was Black.

But I remember that was the first I had, I spoke to him, I told him what the teacher wanted. I guess there was a pass, was written down or something, and he gave me what I needed, and all that. But I remembered that, and what made it stick out in my mind was the cigar smell.

	V:	Mm. Okay. And so, I want to ask then, did you go to middle school as well, or to a junior high school?

	D:	We didn’t have middle school, and it was junior high. I believe junior high opened in 1959 with seventh graders, and I was there. I later became principal of that school. Same school, same building. And they tore that building down and





replaced it with a new building while I was a principal there. It’s now James Stephens Middle School. Used to be Lee — or else, is it K-8? James Stephens K-8? It’s not far from here. But it was Lee Middle School. I was in Lee Junior High, but when I became the principal of the school, it had changed to middle school. But it was seven, eight, and nine. The years that I was there, they didn’t have enough room in the high school. They were building a new high school. So we had to stay there for tenth grade. They had portables. Put a bunch of portables out in the back of the place.

	V:	Oh lord [laughter.]



	D:	Yeah. Some of them are still there I think. No they weren’t the same ones, but still. You know I’m a part of the front end of the baby boomer generation. And every stage of my life that I go through, including the one I’m in now, were like a bulge. You know, there was like this many before us and this many after us, but when we go through, there’s like this many. Because everybody that went away to war came back and started getting married, and having children, and having quite a few of them. And so we’re part of the baby boomer generation, so there wasn’t enough schools. It’s like there won’t be enough doctors when we need our healthcare. Probably won’t be enough space in the graveyards, I don’t know how that’s gonna work. But, yeah. I’m in this big bulge of population that have the same needs. When there was acute housing shortage, after WWII was over, everybody came back, people got married, moved out, and they needed homes. And so, anything that had a roof on it I guess could be a home, maybe for more than one group of people until you started building. And when that happens, the





community began to expand in terms of its amount of work it was doing, more salaries, better salaries, more roads, more telephones, it was expanding the gross national product of the whole United States, but in Lee County, it was growing like crazy because so many people are moving here. But even then, I mean the pace was fast, but it wasn’t nearly as fast as it became later. And after air conditioning, when I went away to college, when I went away after I was gone, my parents got air conditioning [laughter.] And [inaudible 18:03], I said, “You guys couldn’t wait for me to leave so you could get a colored TV and air conditioning in the house.”

	V:	[Laughter] And so actually, because you’re UF alumni, what year did you end up going to UF?

	D:	That’s another that Florida did. There wasn’t enough college space, so they started a community college. Actually, it was called a junior college. It was a whole new class of schools in the state that was intended to give every child in the state of Florida an opportunity to drive to higher education after high school. Basically, they didn’t have enough seats at the University of Florida, and Florida State, and all the other colleges to take care of all the kids that were graduating that wanted to go to college. And so there was junior colleges built everywhere. And in Lee County, it was called Edison Junior College, and the first classes were held in downtown Fort Myers at the Gwin building. If you’re familiar with the old Gwin bill, it’s still there. It’s next to the first Baptist church. And that’s where they started having classes, and they built the campus that were the colleges now, it’s called Southwestern—





V:   Florida Southwestern.



D:  Florida Southwestern that way. Initially, it was started as Edison Junior College, because Edison Community College, then it became Edison State, and now it’s something else.

V:   [Laughter] It’s still Edison [inaudible 19:34.]



	D:	Yeah, it’s still Edison, yeah. Within you could only go for two years. You got a junior college degree, but that gave you the right to any college of any university in Florida that you wanted to. So my dad and I, we went on this on tour, we went to South Florida, which was University of South Florida in Tampa at that time was three buildings surrounded by cows. And I didn’t want to go there it was smaller than Edison. And we kept on going with Gainesville, and then I said, “This is where I wanna go to school.” And that’s where I went.

	V:	What was the appeal of Gainesville for you?



	D:	Well it looked like what I believe a college should look like. First of all it was old, it had red brick buildings mostly. It had ivy growing up the side of the buildings. It was a country— I mean it wasn’t a big city, it was still— I considered it to be rural. But it had long time been established. And it had a well-known program for what I wanted to do at the time, I wanted to go into engineering. And I was in one of the electrical engineering. First semester I was in and I still had a couple of courses I needed to take to get fully admitted because you had certain prerequisites that you have to have before you can get into the program. And then I decided to change to mathematics. There was two things that I did wrong





when I was in high school. I was an above average student, but not a genius. That was math and music. And I was really good at math, I was in all the top classes, and I was first chair in my— I played trombone, and I loved singing in the choir at church, and playing my instrument and all that. So I was a musician and a mathematician, two M’s.

	V:	Well I guess that’s what influenced you to be a math teacher later on then.



	D:	Well, it’s actually a longer story than that because the Vietnam War intervened. I was draft age. When I was getting ready to graduate from Florida in [19]68, I called my draft board and they told me that I would— I had been offered a fellowship to stay with the school and pursue my master’s degree in what is now called computer-science. That’s what it was called back then, computer science. We used IBM punch cards, when we had calculators. They cost a lot of money that all they did was four functions, wouldn’t even take square roots. Anyhow, that was on the ground floor of computers and our math professors, tried to encourage us to go into that because they wanted to build that department and what better place to get people to do that than from the math department? So, that’s what I was going to do. But when I contacted my draft board, they said I have to note the lady who was in charge of the draft board here, and she said that “If you accept that fellowship, we’re gonna draft you by November.” And so I said, “Well what are my options?” This was going into my senior year, so I wasn’t sure how what I was going to do. But I was only going to have that year of 4F that I had to give it up. It was on deferment, college deferment. So she said, “You can join one of the other services, you can join the Air Force, or the Navy, or you





can join. Or you can get an occupational deferment.” I didn’t know what an occupational deferment was. She explained to me, “It’s like working for any defense related business or factory or something that the government highly values what you’re doing as part of the defense effort then you can be deferred for another year.” And so she said they give deferments to math and science teachers, and this came about as part of the race of Sputnik, where they wanted to get math and science and engineering and all that pumped up and get people into it. And that went all the way back to new math, and getting the kids in school all taught by certified teachers who knew a little bit about math and a little bit about science. And so, I went and took all the Air Force tests, and physical, and everything. And I passed everything, they called me in and said, “Well, we got good news for you.” I didn’t want to fly. I thought of myself as good with managing things, controlling things, and I worked in a grocery store, which is a whole other story. And I thought I’d be good in logistics, organizing things, and getting people to do things. And they made me take the flight test. While we were taking the flight test, the guy that was giving the test, he gave out some answers. He said things like, “I guess all of you put A to number seven” and he did that on four or five of them. And later on I started thinking, I don’t really know as much as they think I know. And so if I get in there and I wash out, then I might end up being a machine gun on the side of a huey helicopter. And I said, “You know what? I’m not so sure I wanna do that.” So, this all happened about the same time after I got the information about my test scores, so I said, “We’ll look at an occupation.” I went down to the student union, and they had— at the time they





had a career placement office there and down the bottom floor. And I was walking in the hallway, there was a big bulletin board, and on that bulletin board, as clear as day, I could remember there was one three by five card with a thumbtack in it, it was sit like this. And it said “Middle School Math Teacher Bradford County Middle School” there was a phone number. The middle school was looking for a math teacher to start the new school year, and I cut off my hair. It wasn’t that bad, but I went down and brought a tie and a jacket, and interviewed and got the job. I spent the rest of my career as an educator. And that’s how I got in. My mother had wanted me to be a church youth director.

Singing, directing the choir, working with young people in the church, my whole family was deeply involved in the southern Baptist religion. And every time the door opened, me and my two brothers were there, because my mother worked there. And my dad was a deacon, and they ran the TV station, and then the radio station, and all that. They were deeply involved in it, so my mother knew that I had some talent for working with kids, but she wanted me to do it along the religious lines. Turns out I did have talent for working with kids, and after I’d been a teacher for just a few months, I knew that this is what I was going to do. And so, I still wanted to get my master’s degree, and I ended up moving to Maryland and I got my master’s degree at the University of Maryland in math. And then I moved back down to Fort Myers and started teaching Riverdale.

	V:	Oh wow, okay. And so what year did you start teaching in Fort Myers then? D:	In 1977. [19]77- [19]78 school year.





	V:	Okay. Because we were talking with Carl Burnside, who’s, I should say is the president of Dunbar High now—

	D:	Yeah, he’s a Nole, you know.



	V:	Yeah. I do know [laughter.] But is that around— oh, well no — because you didn’t immediately become an administrator.

	D:	No, no. I had been a teacher by then for six years. One year in Bradford County Middle School, and then five years in Maryland while I was getting my master’s degree. You know, not that many places let you get a master’s degree in math — straight math. You can get it in math ed, but straight math, you can’t. And I still wanted to get my degree in straight math. Ended up going ahead and doing it in education, it was what would have benefited me. For one thing, I had to have a certificate. You couldn’t just know a lot about math, you had to know how to teach it too. Or at least be able to convince other people that you knew how to teach it. There is a big difference between knowing it and being able to teach it to somebody. So, when I moved down here, I went to Riverdale, which is where my brother had attended as a high school. My youngest brother had gone there and gone to high school there. And so people knew me, people knew my mother from the church, and I became involved in the school. Deeply involved in the school right on. All the math teachers tell you it’s a hard thing to do. Probably harder today. And so they were happy to have an experienced teacher. You know, somebody with five or six years of experience.

	V:	Yeah. And so—





	D:	And a master’s degree.



	V:	I’m assuming because normally, by that time everything had already been integrated in Fort Myers and integration was a shock in Fort Myers, but since you’d been to— I mean, I believe by [19]68, when you went up to UF, things were already integrated at UF. Or, there were Black students there.

	D:	Yeah, there were, and when I taught my first school at Bradford County Middle School, that was the first year they integrated.

	V:	Oh okay.



	D:	So I never taught the segregated schools. I was a student at segregated schools, but I didn’t teach— in fact, when I went to Edison, there was a few Black kids. I remember one kid, I had him in two classes, he was singing in our choir, I sang in the choir at Edison, and also P.E. So that was really the first time I came in contact as a student with a fellow student that was Black, and it was just one.

And he was a pastor, a local pastor. I’m mad I didn’t get to know him that well. But the reason he sticks out in my mind is because he could sing so well. And we were in the choir together.

V:   So I wanted to ask then, about you teaching and things like that. What were a lot of the challenges in the school system at the time? In [19]77 when you were here in Fort Myers? Like what were they trying to focus on?

D:  Can I tell you a funny story about Bradford County Middle School? Along those same lines? Because that was the year they were integrated. They built a whole





new school, a middle school, with no walls, open space concept, I don’t know if you’ve heard of that or not.

	V:	Yeah.



	D:	Well you know it’s a failure. We had this— I’d say about a third of the kids were Black, and about two thirds were White, somewhere around there. And these kids, they had not been integrated before. I thought it came on really, really well, being a teacher in the situation, and not having been in the other situation I don’t know what it was like, maybe a whole lot better, maybe a whole lot worse, I don’t know, but the kids seemed to adjust to it a lot easier than adults did. We had this kid who was a— he just wouldn’t shut up. He just loved to talk, loved to play, loved to aggravate people, and he would happen to be the son of the local sheriff. And so, we put him— or maybe the city? It was a local county sheriff or the city police, one or the other, and so we kept moving him around, trying to put him in different places where he wouldn’t talk. And so finally, we put him between two Black kids, two Black girls, and we thought it worked out pretty good [laughter.] He didn’t get in that much trouble. But, we got called in to change his seating because his father had complained to the principal where he was seated, he didn’t like where he was seated. So we did. We moved him. That was really the only thing that I can recall that was overtly racial. I do remember back in those days we paddled kids. And I didn’t wanna paddle kids, later as an assistant principal I paddled a lot of kids because that was part of the job description. But the other teachers had to do it. And I remember not wanting to paddle kids at all,





but finally doing it because we had to do it. Follow the rules they were accustomed to do it.

	V:	Yeah, corporal punishment was the thing.



	D:	Yep. I remember we had this kid named Elijah Ganey, and he was kind of a — he was a Black kid, and he was kind of, he was slight, but he could do some interesting things. He walked on his hands, and some other athletic kinds of things that you know, would be silly. But he also liked to act up and talk when he wasn’t supposed to, and things like that. When you paddle somebody, you had to have a witness. And I remember witnessing this kid get paddled by another teacher who was a White teacher who lived there. He wasn’t from a college that drove there every day, he was from the community. And I remember watching him paddle that kid, and I remember tearing up because the way he did it. It was brutal. Absolutely brutal. But that was an anomaly, I don’t know why it happened that way, those are the only two incidents that I can think of that that had anything to do with racial issues.

	V:	That sounds about right during that time, because the general consensus from what I’ve got— it’s like you said, there were more problems with the adults than the actual kids. And the only stories I’ve gotten that were really bad between students were like— I mean by the time that kids— in the high schools, which is when you know, kids start to get more politically active and things like that. But yeah, it’s interesting, especially—I was gonna ask too, with that story with the teacher because it seemed too— was that teacher older, or were they—?





	D:	No, it had been around for a while, yeah.



	V:	Yeah, because I remember hearing a similar — well, it’s not a similar story— but Levan Simms is a city councilman who I had spoken with. He was a teacher at North Fort Myers High. And it was similar in the sense that a lot of the older teachers who had been around for a bit were openly hostile towards a lot of the Black students and things like that. But having said all that, I was actually interested, since you were in the school system and things like that. I always wondered, with Dunbar High and things like that, after they had closed it, did the city ever use the building for anything else afterwards? I know it was like a junior high for a bit? Or no?

	D:	Well let me tell you, my junior and senior year, when I went to Fort Myers High.



	They bust me right down what used to — what is now called MLK. V:	Yeah, Anderson.

	D:	What’s called Anderson Avenue. And they bust me right down Anderson Avenue right to Fort Myers High. From East Fort Myers right past the Black school, what was the Black school then. And I was out of school. I was graduated in [19]65, so I was out of school when they were actually— when it was actually integrated.

They built a new school, that’s where Dunbar is now— Dunbar High School is now, which is the —

	V:	The one on Edison.





	D:	It’s been converted into — been remodeled and expanded into a big high school, but it was a very small school. My daughter actually went to Dunbar Middle School when it was a middle school —

	V:	Oh wow.



	D:	Location. They built that school to try to delay segregation, say “Separate but equal. Look, we built them a new school, brand new school,” because when you look at Dunbar High School— the old Dunbar High School and the Fort Myers High School, they didn’t compare. Then took the new school they just built for the high — to be a new Dunbar High School, it was better than Fort Myers High. So they were trying to claim that, “Well look, separate but equal. Look, it still works.” They got a better school than what we have over here.” But course, [laughter] they weren’t gonna get away with it, but they tried to do it.

	V:	I’m interested because when we talk about integration and stuff like that, we normally stop at like, things were integrated, and then there’s that missing part of what happens after. Living here in Fort Myers after things were integrated, what were some of the issues that were kind of the same between Dunbar and— well, both sides of the rail tracks I should say.

	D:	Well let me go back to a couple of the significant things that I think we could’ve



— may have been left out. First one is when my mother first started to work and she had three boys, we had a Black lady who came in and cleaned our house.

	V:	Domestic, yeah.





	D:	Domestic. And the Black men picked up our trash. They didn’t pick it up for the street, they went behind your house where you put it, and they would dump it into their own big cans and then they would carry it out to the front, put it in a truck.

So they would come into your neighborhood and do domestic things, but the rule was that they couldn’t be over there after dark. And there was a — you probably heard this already, there was a train track. They have to be on one side of the track. I never encountered that, but I knew that. Knew that that was a rule. After I started driving, I had dates. My first wife lived over— I could drive around this way through Fort Myers to get to her, or I could through this way. Which took me across the railroad track, down Anderson Avenue, part of the way down Ford Street, down Hanson, and over in that way. And so I was going through a different part of town, sometimes like eleven, eleven thirty at night. And so, I never got worried or never got nervous, it didn’t scare me. It bothered me, but had somebody that was Black tried to do that on the other side of town, I suspect there would’ve been problem of some kind. My other thing I wanna tell you about has to do with jobs. I worked at the Winn Dixie downtown, it’s not there anymore, the Hendry Street Winn Dixie in downtown, have you heard about that?

	V:	I haven’t. I don’t know a lot about the first stores and things like that. D:	It’s a city building now, the Lee Theater.

	V:	Okay, yeah.





D:  The Lee Theater was on the same block. So it was Anderson Avenue, Hendry Street, Mason’s Bakery was over here. This whole block was Lee Theater and the Winn Dixie was right there.

V:   Yeah, Anderson and Hendry, I know that. Yeah.



	D:	Yeah. Okay. Well I worked at that Winn Dixie when I was in high school in junior college, and there were no Black employees there. They were all White people, and most people that worked there were Fort Myers High guys that I knew, because you know somebody, “Hey then, you want a job, come work over here,” and then, it’s kind of a clique, I guess you could say. Well I remember a Black girl— I came to work one day, she was sitting on the stack of sugar. Fit five pound bags come in twelve — I think it’s twelve to a thing, and they stack them up. She was sitting there taking a test. First of all, I’d never seen a Black girl in the back of the room, like an employee or — she was taking an employment test, she was gonna try to work there. And so I started talking to her, and she was pretty too. I noticed that right away. And I said, “What kind of test is it?” She says, “A math test.” I go, “Oh, math test. I love this stuff.” So we went through the questions and I helped her a little bit maybe [laughter.] I helped her. And then I never saw her again. But, the manager, a couple of weeks later, the manager came up to me. In the back room, he said— I forget what her name was. Says, “Did you help so-and-so with her test that she was taking back here?” And I said, “What test? What are you talking about?” [Laughter]

	V:	Did they normally have—





	D:	So I think—



	V:	Tests?



	D:	What, no. I didn’t take a test. Nobody I knew took a test. There were no tests. But she had to take a test, and she probably would’ve done just fine, but me being like I am, there’s a pretty girl I want to talk to her. Ah, maybe she’ll get a job here and then I’ll get to know her a little bit, you know. I didn’t grow up in a segregated— segregationist family. We were from Indiana, and I was looking forward to getting to know her. And apparently she worked for a couple of weeks, and then she ended up not working anymore, and it may be that she just wasn’t good enough with the math to stay in the job. Because back then you had a different kind of cash register, it didn’t do all the work for you.

	V:	Yeah. So then, talking about that then— hold on I’m trying to remember words. Okay, weird thing. Do you know anything about the housing crisis around here? Because interesting story that I’ve learned— I think I might’ve told you about it before when we were talking earlier about how I heard that some of the houses, like around Dunbar in the Black community were about just as much as they were basically off McGregor and stuff like that, was there— do you know anything about that?

	D:	I don’t know anything about that.



	V:	Okay. I was just wondering because it’s one thing that I’m just trying to feel around.

	D:	But they were overpriced, that house was overpriced?





	V:	Yeah, I think it had to do with supply issues, because it was the only area worth—

	D:	You’re limited to where— V:	Could buy it—

	D:	Yeah—



	V:	And so, there wasn’t a lot of housing there to begin with, and it’s also like, the biggest Black community between Tampa and Miami. So you’ve got a really big population of people all looking for good housing, and there’s only a small area where you can get it. So I think that drove up prices, but I don’t know any — I mean, I don’t even know where I can get the numbers on it. I’m just trying to see if there were people that know about it.

	D:	Well there’s probably a lot of rental housing. V:	Yeah.

	D:	I mean, I don’t know who owned it or how that worked, but in the [19]70s and [19]80s, the community began to change. Where I grew up, there’s probably still some White people there, but there’s not very many. My dad lived in an area that— it was actually on the river on a canal, there were White people on the canals, but as soon as you got one block off, it was all Black and Hispanic from there over. So the waterfront property still is valued higher and I guess people don’t mind living in areas like that if they can be on the water, but the rest of the community is very different.





	V:	Yeah.



	D:	Palm Beach Boulevard, when you drive along there now, it’s all — I mean, there’s a lot of Hispanic businesses, there’s still White businesses along there too. But it’s a very, very different neighborhood than the one I grew up in.

	V:	Did that happen over time as more immigration happened, because I know during like [19]80s and [19]90s — I mean even now, we started getting a lot more immigration from Latin America and stuff like that.

	D:	Yep. Yeah, I think there’s a lot of Cuban— large Cuban population, Mexican population. After I became a principal, I hired people who moved over from the East Coast. They had been in America for a long time, citizens and … but the East Coast was so expensive, they wanted to move over here. And I hired quite a few people like that. In fact, some of them, they would come, they would buy a house like in Lee High, and set up their family there, but then the guy who was the main breadwinner would stay in Miami and rent a — just rent something small, like I don’t know, a room or how they did it, but then he would come over every Friday, spend the weekend with his family, and then go back over. They could make money there, but everything was so expensive it didn’t go that far.

	V:	So how long were you a principal then? D:	Twenty-five years.

	V:	Okay. And then, I remember you were talking— I mean, I don’t really know about the big immigration spike, but when was the big spike in people around here?





	D:	There was a time when we were opening five schools, five brand new schools, four brand new schools, every year. In I would say about maybe [19]94, [19]90s, mid [19]90s, up to about 2005, 2004, about a decade there they were adding one school after another. When I lived here, as a high school kid, there was one high school. Fort Myers High. Alma had a small high school out there too, with like thirteen seniors and I mean then they closed it down when they built Riverdale.

But by the time I graduated, North had a graduating class, so then there was two high schools. Then came Cypress, and of course now there’s thirteen of them.

	V:	I was just wondering with— because I didn’t’ know if there was a dynamic where they had a teacher shortage, or a shorter of — I mean, a shortage of people to work at the schools, because I was wondering with all the people coming in, all the schools being opened, I mean you need manpower for that.

	D:	Yep. No you’re exactly right. I was on the recruiting team and there are still recruiting teams that go out to try to recruit teachers to come— we don’t grow enough teachers in Florida. We certainly don’t grow enough in Lee County, so they have to bring them in. And I hired many teachers that way. I’ve had people come from Indiana, they can’t get a job up there. They apply to local, and then they’re cutting teachers— so they cut down here, they work for four or five years, wait for an opening to happen back up in their home where their family is, then they transfer up there. East Lee County High School was still with people like that, and over the period of three or four years, most of the ones that we recruited down here left. Went back.

	V:	Wow.





	D:	So what happens is, you end up with inexperienced, young teachers right out of college, and then by the time they get some experience to know how to do things and get good, they leave. [Laughs]

	V:	Yeah. Well, I was gonna say is pay a big part of that and things like that because—

	D:	Pay in Florida is a lot lower, but I think people for the most part, it probably has to do with being around your family. Being where you want to be. And then just taking a job because you can’t get where you want to be, but you still can do the job and get paid and begin your career, and then hopefully transfer back later on.

	V:	Yeah. I wanted to ask actually, in regards to that, I know you left in [19]68, but there was a teacher strike in [19]68 because — well, they still had to pay for their own supplies, and because we just were low. Was there ever any kind of organization by teachers afterwards?

	D:	Yes. Of course, [19]68 was when I graduated from college. And started teaching at Bradford County Middle School, and that was the first year that they had a teacher union. Of course it was called association, not a union. And I remember the — I wasn’t a part of it, but somebody on my team was a part of it, and she told us that the superintendent said, “Here’s how much money you have more than you had last year. Let’s decide how we’re gonna use it.” In other words, they didn’t really negotiate a way— in other words, he set his priorities and then said, “Okay there’s this much money that I’m willing to let you guys negotiate” — first of all, this is a little county, so it wasn’t like some big—





	V:	Yeah.



	D:	But later on, I did serve as a ref, and I got a little bit involved in it, and I got much more deeply involved than I was when I was a principal. I was on some of the teams that negotiated the contract, negotiating teams.

	V:	And would you negotiate with like the cities and the counties, and things like that?

	D:	No, we were the administrative team. Lee County administrative team, and then you have the teacher association, and then you have the support personnel, they have a union too. So you have to negotiate with them.

	V:	Okay. But I mean, after [19]68, were there any kind of, strikes or protests or things like that because of it?

	D:	No, you know why? It’s because when they wrote the law, and it still exists to this day, if you’re convicted of going on strike in Florida, you’re a member of the Teacher’s Union, they can kick you out of the union and take your FRS retirement.

	V:	Oh wow. [Scoffs] Okay, well that’s why we don’t have — D:	That’s why you don’t have strikes.

	V:	You see, I was wondering too, I mean this is like really — I mean, this is this year, but I remembered thinking when the strikes were happening, I think it was in West Virginia and Arizona?

	D:	Oh yeah, this year there’s like three states that did it.





	V:	Yeah. I was thinking, because I had always heard Florida was one of the ones towards the bottom in terms of teacher pay, and —

	D:	Like forty-seventh, yeah.



	V:	Yeah, and I was wondering, I’m like, “Why aren’t things exploding here?” Because I’m like, “If it’s happening up there — it’s not like teachers aren’t organized here.” I’m like, “I wonder what’s keeping them from doing that,” but I didn’t know —

	D:	It’s the laws. It’s the law.



	V:	Yeah. Wow, that’s incredible.



	D:	Yeah, this is not a union-friendly state. And the laws that they have control public employees pretty significantly.

	V:	Okay. Well that’s actually definitely pretty important I guess, in the context of thinking about things with education and stuff like that. Because in regards to the Black teachers too, I remember when things like that happened, there was the added thing of— like, there was the pressure of where they didn’t want to lose their jobs as well because they kinda understood that it kinda like thin nice.

	D:	Well, they basically — they had to risk everything. Not just the Black teachers, but the White teachers too because they fired them. The ones that went out on the strike, they’d fire them. And then when the strike was settled, they still needed teachers. So they rehired them, but they made them pay a fee.

	V:	Oh wow.





	D:	To be rehired. V:	Okay. [Laughter[

	D:	That’s what they did. So you think about it, you got a school system and you’ve



— say there’s 300 teachers and 100 of them walk out. And then what are you going to do to fill those 100 slots every day? Who do you put in there to manage those kids day after day? And what is the quality of education that they’re getting? You need 100 teachers really fast when that thing is over. So they hired the same ones back, but they punished them by making them pay like five hundred dollars, which is six thousand — what is it, one-twelfth, about 8 percent of their salary.

V:  Yeah, and I mean five hundred dollars back then is hefty. D:  Yeah, well they’d let you pay it in installments. [Laughter] V:  Oh, how generous [laughter.]

D:   So whatever you got, they took. Basically.



	V:	Okay. Well, we’ve been talking for close to an hour now, so I — D:	Oh really?

	V:	Yeah, I think I’m gonna cut it off there— D:	Enough fun for one day.

	V:	Yeah. [End of interview]







Transcribed by:

Megan Sam,

November 25, 2019

Audit-Edited by:

Sandra Romero

February 4, 2020

Final-Edited by

Sandra Romero

February 19, 2021