AAHP 104; Thomas; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 104 Arthur Thomas African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on August 20, 2010 38 minutes | 20 pages





Abstract: In this interview, Arthur Thomas details his young life spent on the move and the discrepancies he noticed between the North and the South within education and gender roles. Mr. Thomas also explains the difference in education between segregated and integrated schools as well as the sense of community that could be fostered within the former. Furthermore, he details his historical beliefs as well as the importance that religion holds within his life. He focuses heavily on what plagues the black population and how it relates to religion.



Keywords: [African American History; Religion; Gender Roles; Segregation/Integration]



Florida Curriculum Standards:



SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.



SS.912.A.2.5 Jim Crow laws SS.912.A.7.5 Social activism



AAHP 104

Interviewer: Marna Weston Interviewee: Arthur Thomas Date: August 20, 2010



	W:	Well, first let me get your name. T:	My name is Arthur Thomas

	W:	I’m speaking with Mr. Arthur Thomas on August 20, 2010. Mr. Thomas, thank you. When and where were you born?

	T:	I was born in Madison, Florida. January 15, 1940.



	W:	How did you come from Madison County here to Jerkins?



	T:	Man, I was on the move. Part of first grade, part of sixth grade and eighth grade I was in Madison. In between, I was in Jacksonville. When I was about in 1953, I stayed in Philadelphia for about two and a half years. Back to Jacksonville. Then, Madison and Perry. Jacksonville. Back to Perry. I was on the move! [Laughter]

	W:	Did you graduate from here at Jerkins? T:	I graduated from Jerkins in 1960.

	W:	What was it like being a high school student at Jerkins in 1960?



	T:	In those days it was segregation and it was all Black staff. I think the principal name is Mr. Warner, if I recall it right. By going from first to twelfth, you had one or two coaches at the athletic field, you know. Well, you was at home— [Laughter]—at that time because that’s what you was used to. Well, most of them. I went to integrated in 1953 and, also, [19]58.

	W:	Where were those schools at?



	T:	One was in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. One was in a little town called Afton, New York. It wasn’t long that I went there. That school, man, looked like a university. It was a fabulous high school for all those little towns—bunch of little





towns that was about nine miles from Lake Ontario. So, you had Afton, New York. You had Elmira, and a place called Sodus, and others that I can vaguely remember. I was just on the move. I’m used to different places and there’s slight differences wherever you going and the lifestyles and the behavior of the people.

	W:	What did you think were those slight differences between going to school in the North and going to school in the South, as you experienced it here?

	T:	I truly believe that it’s a difference in man and woman. The women it seemed like up North would help the man more. Like sometimes when you go out, they would go what you call stag. You pay your way, she pay her way. Sometimes she’ll pay your way and invite you in her house and cook you a meal, but a lot of Southern women were more dependent on the man. And, they didn’t believe in giving a man anything—generally speaking. It’s kind of changing now, you know. Now, Madison is more conservative than Perry. The young women here was aggressive. They see a man, they go for him. You talk about a shotgun wedding, you knock up one of them Madison girls at that time [Laughter] you’d be in trouble! These little places are about thirty miles apart and it’s a big difference.

Education in Madison! If you get bad grades, those school teachers go home with you! And, they will set up a program were [it was] a study period. You got your lesson. They did not play. At one time they had what you call a California Test. At one time, they led the nation in that. You didn’t have pencil and paper, they get you pencil and paper. So, it was a big difference in going to school in Madison and going to school in here.





	W:	Do you think that segregation from then and from now made a difference in the quality of an education?

	T:	Sure, it made a difference in the quality. You gained some, you lost some.



Because I can remember in these schools you had a Black History Month. It seemed like it was longer than a month and you felt more comfortable talking to your own people about slavery then when a White audience was around. Just like on some of these shows, if you talk about slavery in an intelligent manner, the first thing they say is, Well, why do you hate White people? You see, that’s why I make stuff like that clear. I don’t hate White people, but it’s just a historical thing. Like, I taught my kids the truth about things like that so when they grow up they’ll understand why things are like they now. You got to know the past, then you can deal with the present and the future, and dealing with people, see? So, it’s very important to know where you came [from]. I go further. Actually, maybe I’ll let you have one of my books. The origins of Black people they traced to Africa, but when you talk to Africa they say they haven’t lost anything. The origins of Black people, they come from what you call the Land of Canaan and they were the descendants of the ancient Israelites. It is evident that Christ come out of the tribe of Judah. And, they’ll tell you that the tribe of Judah [is] Black! Or [they] come out of the tribe of Benjamin. John the Baptist come out of the tribe of Levi, that was the priesthood back in the day. The tribe of the Israelites is a speckled bird of many colors: some black, some brown, some light complexion, some like you cook a cake on one side and unturn—that mean a light complexion. So, this is what you’re dealing with and it goes on to say that Israel or Jacob face will not





become pale, so when you see these so-called pale-faced Christ or these pale- faced people that call themselves Jews—they’re wrong! And like Revelation 29:39 tell you. That’s one of the problems. The reason why we’re in the predicament and this captivity we in is because they try and stress against God’s law—not because of the so-called White man or any other people. So if your mama and daddy beat you with a switch, don’t go Jehovah and say, Jehovah tell him don’t beat me no more. You go to mama and daddy and tell them you going to straighten up. We have to get back with God. He’s the one [that] put is in this predicament. He’s the one can take us out. Because once he give an order that’s it! It has to be followed.

	W:	Are you saying that your world view is one that’s more Afro-centric? That you look at things as Africa as the center of origin?

	T:	No, no, no, no, no. See, that’s where the mistake is made. I was in New York.



Tom O’Boyle came there and they had a meeting with Black people. The question was asked about Afro-Americans migrating back to Africa. He said, First off, Africa hadn’t lost anything. Then he said that we are looking with expertise, people redeveloping the country, skill trades and what not; school teachers. And he went on to say that some of them communists, some of them dictatorship, some of them democracy, we don’t need nobody to change nothing. But see, we have been taught so long that Africa the mother country. No! We was running from the Roman soldiers in 7 A.D when they lay Jerusalem to waste and some was captured and taken to Rome, some they sported in the arenas, some escaped what you call [inaudible 7:46] Africa, and other parts of the region. Other





countries, so, hundreds of years passed, discovered the new world, they needed people to work it so they went on the shores of Africa and picked up slaves at random and when the word got into the interiors and then some of the Africans and Arabs and other people, so called people, see the Portuguese—what Morocco is ninety miles from Spain and Portugal. Just go around the west coast of Africa and they had trading mansions and they turned them into slavery posts. And so that’s where they sold a lot of our people. You may have heard about the Gullah people that like Sierra Leone get in all those places like that.

Liberia, but they was strangers in Africa. They didn’t originate. See you gonna have Black people all over the world, it’s Black people in Australia, New Guinea. I was in the army; they showed family had Black people in Russia. You got Black Asians over there by Vietnam and all of them places. I mean, Black is a color you dealing with a race. If you got a brown race; color. You dealing with pale, you know dealing with all kind of colors but see race is race. It’s more or less describing—look at Arabs. They got them Black, they got them brown, they got them real light skin but they all look the same nationality. That’s what counts.

Right now you and her can have kids and some of them will be dark and some of them will be brown. And that’s just how it is. Just like when Jacob had those name changes and twelve sons. You got all these different complexions of skin. So that’s how that is but see the thing people gotta realize. You went back to Africa like roots went to the leaves. They didn’t go to the root. But our people came from originally on the land they came in the land of Israel. That’s where they originated from.





	W:	Well let me bring this back to Jerkins for a second. Did going to high school here give you that thirst for gathering this type of knowledge or where did you gain your critical thinking skills and the ability to look at the world in this fashion.

	T:	Okay let me tell you. When you look at the world as a little kid, we used to leave and go to Madison, Florida in the country my great granddaddy and I could tell that White people were more fluent. They had everything and when they come around there smiling, grinning, Mr. and Mrs. So-and-so this and they said Uncle Butler, Uncle Harvey and many refused to recognize them as their equal as a man and they were more fluent with their houses and cars. So I said, and I knew about the atrocities committed so I said “Something gotta be wrong with this.

There’s gotta be a better way”. So when I was four, five, six, seven, eight years old I was thirsting for the truth. That’s where it started. Now I don’t know some people said you’re born with a veil in your eye and I seen other people that, maybe a special a person. But this just didn’t come about only because of Jerkins and Madison and other places I went to just something in me that I would not accept and it’s a statement in the Bible said “Those that sigh and cry for the abominations” which is sin, “on this earth is more or less a beginner of a candidate for the truth”. So that’s how this kinda thing started. You know it’s something that has to be within you. See if you take a genius for example, I can’t say I’m gonna be a genius I have to be born with that, and certain things I can practice too you know? I can train to be a painter you know what I mean? Some other skill worker but it’s certain things that gotta be inside you.





	W:	Let’s start with the proposition and perhaps some of this comes from where you’re from, your deep background, who were your mom and dad?

	T:	Well my daddy had died before I was two years old. He come out of a place called Rutherford, Georgia.

	W:	And what was his name sir?



	T:	His name was, let me think because I just found out his name not long ago. They always called him Bill Thomas. His name was Talmadge Clayton Thomas. See and my mother name was Tammy Lee George.

	W:	And where was she from? T:	She was born in Madison.

	W:	Do you know their dates of birth for your mom or your dad?



	T:	My mother was born May the fifth 1929. I don’t remember when my dad was born. I got it written at home.

	W:	Do you have brothers and sisters?



	T:	I got one sister. She was, I think my sister going to Jacksonville. W:	And what is her name?

	T:	Her name is Harriett Jacqueline Clark. W:	And do you know her date of birth?

	T:	Well, she was born October 13, 1942. W:	Okay. Do you have children?

	T:	Four boys.



	W:	And what are their names?





	T:	Okay my oldest boy name is Gershon Thomas and the second’s name Ezra.



Third Zariah, fourth Seth. Now what I did, I had the name changed from European names to Biblical names. The reason why I had this done, like a brother of mine named, he come from Quincy, named John Hughes and he showed me a family reunion where the slave master had about four or five hundred slaves and all of them names was Hughes. See first of all, our predicament—we’re not represented in the UN. We don’t have a flag. And we were forced to adhere to other nation’s rules and regulations and laws. We don’t even have a clothing code for our children you know and the voices come so easily and so, mentally, psychologically and imperially we’re in captivity. But one day it’s ending soon, very soon. So, most every nation in the world represented the UN. They got a flag, they got something. Somewhere to go to but we are not, so we still not free. Freedom is when you have your own land, your own jobs, your business, your industry, your factories, your own education, your own religion with God here of course. Your own husband and wife and children then, that is freedom. See today, we are not free.

	W:	Are you married sir?



	T:	No I’m divorced, I was married. W:	Okay, and what was her name?

	T:	Her name was Annie Jean Scott. So it was Annie Jean Thompson when I married her, and she’s close kin to Coretta Scott King in New York.

	W:	Okay, what was her date of birth? T:	Her birthday was January 17, 1948.





	W:	And where was she born?



	T:	She was born in Mobile, Alabama I believe. But she migrated like a lot of people because of times to New York. Only way I ended up in New York, I got out of the army I said “I’m gonna stay there a year”. Ended up getting married having three kids, I had to make a little money to go back to Jacksonville but she had a most of her relatives there, my mother and two of my brothers and my cousin was there so it wasn’t too bad like these are total strangers. I just asked why I stayed there eight years too.

	W:	What are your expectations of this reunion and historic marker dedication? What would you like to see or do you expect to see happen here this weekend?

	T:	What I would like to see is some of my old schoolmates but a lot of them died out you know, a lot of them. When you get to be about seventy years old man, hey, ain’t gonna be too many of them left and it just brings back memories and sometimes when you’re around the people, you be friends with certain people, I like to go back and find out what their birth sign is and make my own observation of the behavior or the characteristics of people. I love to do that. Like studying my own private thing of human behavior, psychology a little bit you know? So, and see how they turn out. I’ve seen some cases in some of the schools I went to seem like the most brilliant, the smartest one end up the worst. For some reason, I don’t say all of them but it seems—I don’t know what happened to them. They had good potential in life and it reminded me what the Bible said “The race is not through the swiftest but the one that endured to the end”. That got something to do with it. And it’s dedication and it’s one’s ability, long suffering, perseverance,





along with your knowledge and wisdom, your understanding and practicality and also you know you gotta put it in practice. So all these things that it take for a person to persevere and try to have somebody’s life in spite of all these bad odds against you, you can’t give up.

	W:	Is there anybody in particular that you would like to see at this dedication and reunion? A teacher or a classmate?

	T:	No, not particularly except the ones I can really remember and they just told me one of the girls I knew named Viilia Vivian Thomas died about two years ago so I was here about nine years ago to a Demps reunion; family reunion and I was talking to some of the schoolmates. They said “most of them died out man”, so it’s something in one’s life. Reunions are wonderful. The people you do see and know it’s just a heck of a feeling.

	W:	Well I’ve enjoyed talking with you. Thank you for sharing your perceptions and I like to close every interview giving the opportunity to the person I spoke with to comment on the interview or anything that they’d like to say and when you finish those comments, that’ll conclude our interview.

	T:	I really would like to take this further if we have time about the nationality of the so-called Black man. He done draw Black man, African American, Afro-American as well as other by words and proverbs we won’t get into. To know that he does have land, he has a country and one day those that survive and obey God will return to that and it won’t be long but most of them, only a tenth return. Ninety something percent will perish because their minds have been apprehended in this country by the White power structure. Slave masters don’t teach you how to





be free. Freedom comes from The Most High God. That’s my objective in spite of all the obstacles, that’s what I really would be happy to see about. Like I said one from a city, two from a family and the remnants shall be saved that is, because some kids like the sounsel give them five or sick years and brain wash them, you got them for life. So when you go to elementary, junior high, high school and college like people tell me “Since my daughter or son, went to college, come back they strangers.” Yeah they strange because they’ve been indoctrinated more into the system. They not teaching you of your true nationality. What nation you come from. The ownership and control of the land; your family. They teaching you how to respond in their society based on what they think, which is not the way of God. You see? So, these are the things that I’m really interested in but then you know, memories when you done been to a place, even though I graduated in ’60, I left here in ’62 but I went to school here in ninth grade also.

See like my uncle and aunt ran a funeral home that called Ava’s Funeral Home. And so I stayed with them, then I stayed time in Madison, back to Jacksonville back and forth you know but it’s just a wonderful feeling when you can see some people that you haven’t seen since 1960 or 1959 or you know, and it’s indescribable. I don’t know if you ever went to school you know, what the case is you know, and see how people turn out, what they doing. Some turn out in negative ways and some positive. I guess that’s about all I would have to say on that part. But now Ima leave one of my books with you because I met a man in New York City in 1969, I was twenty-nine years old and somebody taught him that goes all the way back to slavery times, most of these movies like “Roots” or





others, White people have a lot of input into these movies but this is a situation where this is about Black people and they’re telling their story. You see, so for the plight of the Black man—and the Indians came around the fifth century. They also descendants of ancient Israelites. So when they mention it, hey you got more Black people in South America than you do in North America and they came on the slave ship. So what had happened during the time the King of Syria took nine and a half tribes around Mesopotamia. Syria, Iran, Iraq, even as far as India; Babylon and some ended up by South Africa and other places and they came in through the waterway, through the Persian gulf. Through the islands, through South America, Central America, North America, Canada and maybe even farther and they was here since the fifth century. That’s a long time. See there’s a breakaway between the children of Israel and the head which is the tribe of Judah, and so they split. It was predicted that they were going to captivity and sold as bond men and bond women. That’s what’s in the Bible! And some folks would say that it’s the North Country. You can call us [inaudible 23:02], Colombia and whatever but it’s the North Country. So you talk to every Black person and say, well I say “What’s your nationality? What nation you come from?” “Well I’m American”. Some say “I’m Baptist” and some say “I’m Black”. I said “How do you get to be American without being born in the county?” then I asked them I said “What was your country name before the Europeans came here?” “Well I don’t know”. I said “If you go by that premise of where land is naming people well shouldn’t you find out what the name was before they came?” If you want, and then call yourself that name. But when the children of





Israel in the land they came, what they call it; the land of Israel. People name land. Land don’t name people. Dogs don’t name people, you name your dog. So that’s how that is, that’s one reason why I had my boy’s name changed. It’s to show, to get away some of the effects of that old slavery you know?

	W:	You know normally I would conclude the interview here but what you said it intrigued me to ask one more question. It’s about leadership. What is your definition of leadership sir?

	T:	Well, in order to be a leader in most cases you must be led. That’s why German soldiers made better soldiers than the American ‘cause they went up through the enlistment ranks, then, they became officers. Okay but now leadership has a lot to do with the standard of life too. If the husband played the right role, but you got to have some understanding to be a leader. You got to have the knowledge and will of understanding and like I said, the practicality and you must be sincere in your leadership and most everything I’ve based on see I get a lot of knowledge from observing people. I used to talk to old people all day long, they know things. And also I get a lot of knowledge out of their mouths believe it or not. They teach you about leadership. So, just like my boys, they saw me taking care of the family. Well a lot of fathers, well they go and drink up and get mad, wanna fight, well they done built up pressure on them from the racist society sometimes. But, one thing I say about them, they will work. They was taught at a young age how to work and they were taught the truth. I used to celebrate pagan holidays like Christmas but I found out that Santa Claus didn’t come down no chimney. I woke up early one morning and saw my mom putting some toys out and I lost all





confidence in it. See that’s negative on leadership. They may not realize that you know? So then I celebrated for a while, but I when I realized the truth I stopped celebrating. I told my kids the truth. Don’t lie to your kids. If you gonna form a leadership role, don’t lie to them. Tell them the truth. And then I went in the Bible and found out tenth chapter Jerimiah learned about the ways of the heathens.

One goes in the forest, cut a tree with an ax, come back and fence with hammer and nails so that it’ll be upright like a palm tree and decorate with gold and silver. I mean I’m born in something like this. Boy this gonna be alright. It’s similarities in most holidays like Easter and most of the months and weeks of the year named after Pagan gods. You may not realize that but they are.

	U1:	You guys have bought your raffle ticket? W:	I am not.

	U1:	It’s two dollars. Fifty-dollar gift card.



	T:	I’ll get it in a minute. So, what happened when the European reformation come, the thirst for religious knowledge they just bought Sunday come from the Sun God that they worship, as well as Easter. They just bought, they sneaked their paganism into religion. See, the Passover feasts of living bread you know when they took the blood of the lamb or goat and painted it on the doorposts but the [inaudible 26:44] angels passed over and killed the first born of man and beast. And he said nothing about Peter Cottontail. Like jellybeans for somebody, eggs, a piece of candy and all this stuff. That’s paganism. But you’re used to doing it. That’s why you shouldn’t get involved with vain traditions and customs. But I have the type of mind, I’ve awaken out of that. I saw the wrong I could not accept





it. Like I said I had some inner person because I be like majority of them brainwashed, I’d do it till I die you know what I’m saying you know? That’s the attitude that some people have. But not me, I’m not that type of person. If I’m doing something wrong I wanna know why and figure it and try to straighten it up. That’s how I am you know? But the majority of the people is gonna perish if they can’t come out of this brainwashing. See? And they got nerve and they bring Halloween in some of these children. Now you know that’s wrong and the legalization of immoral things they bring their children. So, and they making a business out of it they got businesses in guns, tanks, bombs, hotels, motels, house parties you name it. When it’s supposed to be about serving God. That should be totally out of the Church. As an individual you could do some of those things. But you’re not supposed to use it on your brothers. Banks, you borrow money you gotta pay interest that’s usual. So, how can you say you’re a White Christian nation when you got all this stuff set up like that? You know, so, and now people are following it. That’s what I’m saying. That’s why the Bible says in Revelations “Come out of her my people, be not partaketh in her sins”. For in one hour she brought the plague. It only take an hour with modern warfare to destroy a nation these days. First I thought it was just a figure of speech or something like that but it is possible for every nation in the world to be destroyed in an hour with the modern weapons they got in there. And you don’t do these things and get away with it, God sees this. Just like, look at these kangun. Start from Egypt their own government, the outer guards, then the Babylonians, the Meads, the Persians, the Romans, the Greeks and so up to now and they had what you call





politics. The priests help in commandments of men. Men don’t know. If you want to know somebody government, it’s in the Bible; how you set up a government. It’s known as theocracy, a theocratic form of government. It’s not man made and it’s just. See? And you got just judgment for example, they accused a guy killing his wife because he was a helicopter pilot during the Vietnam era. But what happened, nobody know proof. The jury and prosecutors say “Well he took his wife and put her in a helicopter and went out and dumped her in the ocean”.

According to God’s law, you’re not supposed to put nobody to death by the mouth of two or three witnesses based on truth. That’s just one example. There’s many of them in there you know? And then marriages; when a man and woman marry, and not when two men or two women marry. See so, they have reached a state of perversion really in most of the countries of the world.

	W:	Do you think then that our leaders have failed us?



	T:	Well I’ll tell you what God say: Isaiah 9:16 “For the leaders of my people, caused them to go astray and error” the leaders, surely the leaders have failed. Majority of the leaders, only a very, very few now; majority of the leaders, they didn’t teach the right thing. They went along with that false bait, they fell for the hook line and sinker and now, they are reaping the negative part of that. Families practically destroyed. You have no control of nothing anymore. At least we had some control of our family once upon a time. When we disciplined them and set an example. But as time progressed on it got worse and worse. It’s out of hand now. And when you get that, far likely than not it’s not long before God destroys. It’s not long for this kingdom ruling today, not just America, the Europeans in





general, the nations ruling the world are gonna be Asians and maybe a few Africans and other nationalities and they gonna be evil too until Christ come and subdue all power and authority and turn the kingdom back over to the most high God. That’s when you can beat your swords and the [inaudible 31:30]. When I was a little boy I used to sing that song “We ain’t gonna study no war no more/ down by the riverside”, that was too early. They were fighting when I was born. So, all this have to be destroyed see before, all the weapons, before peace can come back and the true gospel has to be preached throughout the whole world. We’re getting a false gospel today most of it. Except what I’m telling, you know and it’s rare. Back then when you said in the last day there’d be a famine for the world, see? So you got a whole lot of word, but it’s so much untruth in them and when I talk to these preachers-it be a gang or no one can stand against me because if you seek the truth, as long as you stick with the truth and you prove what you say, you can’t go wrong. But you bring up all these hypotheses in there, that’s where you fall astray. You stick to the truth you know like I talk to some of them and they have been brainwashed by this system because the only people God chose to teach his word was the children of Israel. The leadership was Judah, Christ came out of Judah. The so called Black man in America is descendants of the ancient Israelites of the tribe of Judah. Judah shall be in the neck of the enemy in the eyes of the lord how plain can you make it? They like to say “Deuteronomy 28:6” they say “You should go to Egypt again by way of ship”. Egypt, only mean just like one over there the name of that nation was [inaudible 33:11]. Ethiopia, Kush, Libya, Put that’s the name. That’s what God gave you.





“You should go over to Egypt again by way of ship, you need to [inaudible 33:21]. And then when you read fifteen to sixteenth verse it tell you about you can call it a by word, a proverb, niggas, pickaninnies and [inaudible 33:32], Martin Luther Coon or whatever. God said if it’s gonna happen, it’s gonna happen. The enemy shall be the head, you shall be the tail you shall serve your enemy and conquer and [inaudible 33:45]. Strangers will get them on you. People that fought against the war coming, they set them up. Put them in business you know? You should be trying to write for another man survival. Oh yeah that had them all from there. Then tell you how hard your task would be in the morning you say “What’s he eating?” and he just said “It’s just morning” because that servitude so hard. And it tells you other things about that you know so, the description is we got a book, marks of a lost race and it go into a little slightly more detail in one of the books I’m gonna let you have. And I would like for y’all to do research on that but it’s based on fact. We even have a calendar some of the missing prints might have a calendar. The New Year, it’s just like in the month of the bill jumped out of exodus which is beginning your months. So what began for months, weeks, days, hours, minutes, seconds? So it could have just a New Year, but that’s biblical talk. If that’s the beginning of your month, the month of a bill, but the name of it is Nissan, see? When the children of Israel came out of Egypt, see in the spring, you know when things begin to grow and life begins and then you got the summer and then you got fall and your winter okay, well that’s beginning of our New Year okay? And I do have a calendar at home see, it’s got seven days in a week, twelve months in a year, thirteen weeks each season which is ninety-





one days and you got four seasons. And this add up to three hundred and sixty- four days in a year, understand?

	W:	I’m sorry sir, this is fascinating but I’ve reached my limit for each person. I want to give you a chance to close.

	T:	Okay okay.



	W:	So whatever you want to say and then if you’d like for it to go in the archives I have to bring you a form for you to sign. But I just wanted to let you know.

	T:	So this is the gist of what I’m talking about. The plight of the so-called Black man and woman and also some of the Indians, most of the Indians were brought here as slaves, sold as bond men and bond women and just very similar to what happened in Ancient Egypt. This is modern Egypt. So what is gonna happen is that, those of us that survive and return back to the most high God, is going to be taken by ships back to their country and strangers gonna be joined with them and these strangers are gonna be servants and handmaids. Other words, you gonna take them captives whose captives you were to be servants and hand maids.

The punishment in Ancient Egypt was a base caning and they still exist. The punishment of this kingdom, no kingdom slaveth forever. Because if you look at the harm they done to the whole world, not just us, God see this. You gonna reap what you sow, so I don’t hate them. Actually I feel sorry for them because that’s gonna be a hell of a punishment he putting on these people. So this is the main reason why we in this country and we struggling right on now. But that’s the main thing you need to achieve in your life. I done see people contemplate suicide. I said “Why gonna do that?” It wasn’t intended for us to be high like them. We





brought in slave. I said “Get your kids of drugs, raise them properly the right way, use the Bible as a teacher, You did your job”. Like they going straight out there somewhere else, you ain’t got nothing to do but you wash your hand. See some of them don’t see it that way they just [inaudible 37:49]. Man what is the truth?

You can’t worry about that. And these are the things I’m concerned about. The plight of our people. So I guess that would be enough for the closing.

	W:	Thank you very much. [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Sandra Romero September 18, 2015 Audit Edited by:	Ebony Love

	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 18, 2019