AAHP 102; Tinsley; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 102 Lillie Tinsley

African American History Project (AAHP) Interview conducted by Anna Brodrecht on August 21, 2010

30 minutes | 23 pages



Abstract: Lillie Tinsley describes her experiences attending Jerkins High School in Perry, Florida. Her mother, Minnie Thomas, was the first cook who was hired at Jerkins—attending Florida A&M University to become certified to be able to plan the meals for the children. Ms. Tinsley talks about some of the influential teachers and other individuals who inspired her at Jerkins, and offers thoughts on life in the community overall, both in the past and in contemporary times.





Keywords: [African American History; Taylor County, Florida; Jerkins High School]





















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 102

Interviewer: Anna Brodrecht Interviewee: Lillie Tinsley Date: August 21, 2010



	B:	So I’ll start off by introducing myself. I’m Anna Brodrecht from the Oral History Program at the University of Florida.

	T:	Okay.



	B:	How are you?



	T:	I am Lillie Tinsely.



	B:	Okay. Good to meet you and how do I spell your last name? T:	‘T’ as in Thomas, I-N-S-L-E-Y.

	B:	Okay. And, so did you come in with a specific thought that you’d like to tell or— T:	Yes.

	B:	Okay.



	T:	I need for you all to know that my mother, Minnie Thomas, was the first cook that was hired at Jerkins.

	B:	Wow! And that was in 19—



T:  In the early 1950s—probably around about ’52, ’53 somewhere along in there. And, she worked and served this community and the kids that lunchroom with love and concern until the school was phased out.

B:   Right.



T:   Due to integration. She went until 1970.



	B:	And, what happened after 1970? Where did she go?



	T:	She was transferred over to the—I believe it was Taylor County Junior High School and she worked another three years there and she retired because of her health. And, she lived in this community until she was ninety-one years old.





	B:	Wow!



	T:	She served the school until umm... B:	When did she pass?

	T:	October 2000. October 20, 2000. B:	Wow.

	T:	Well-known and had been in this community since 1935. B:	Yeah.

	T:	So, the reason why she was hired was because she used to come to the school frequently to bring me and my sisters, there was four girls; she would come to bring our lunch. You know, three or four times a week. There were days that she couldn’t make it or days that we would bring sandwiches, but her preference was for us to have warm lunches.

	B:	Oh, okay. Wow!



	T:	Nutritious lunches. Because for one thing, I was a picky eater, so I didn’t like sandwiches every day.

	B:	Right.



	T:	And, I wanted my mother’s cooking so she would cook and bring it to us. B:	Aww! That’s really special.

	T:	Yes.



	B:	She’d knock on the door here?



	T:	Yes. When they built the lunchroom because when we first started to school here we didn’t have a lunchroom. So, when they built the cafeteria, then, he thought about my mother because she was still coming to see about her girls. So, she





was hired. And, not only that, I graduated from this school in 1959, and I returned in 1968 to work in the principal’s office.

B:   Oh. Okay.



T:   And, I was the person that was designated to take up the lunchroom money. B:   Your family had it full circle. [Laughter] That’s cool.

T:   Yes.



	B:	Well, I have some question then because I’ve always wondered—I was talking to somebody the other day and they couldn’t remember what year school lunches were actually started. So, what was the story? Did everybody bring lunches and just eat in your classroom or what’s that whole evolution of—

T:  They had a time for everybody to eat, you know. They designated a time, and, then, you would get your little sandwich and the kids that lived close around, of course, I guess they would run home. I don’t know because, again, my mother was bringing me lunch so—

B:  Yeah, and did you live close enough to walk home? T:   She didn’t allow us to walk.

B:   Not for lunch? Okay.



	T:	We had to stay at school. She was real strict on education.



	B:	Okay? Because it was the education, not because it was dangerous to walk home, or—?

	T:	Right.



	B:	Okay.





	T:	Because back then you could walk to school. There wasn’t so much danger as it is now.

	B:	Yeah.



	T:	Because a group of kids could walk from here to where I live, I guess maybe about five or six city blocks—what I call city blocks now. I live on the other side of ninety-eighth, just across the road.

	B:	Okay.



	T:	That main road out there. B:	I know where that is.

	T:	That’s where I live at. That’s my mother’s house. It’s still there. B:	Oh! You lived there your whole life?

	T:	Yeah.



	B:	Ooh!



	T:	I don’t live there now, but that’s where I was born at. B:	Okay, okay.

	T:	And, the house is still there, and I still come to Perry to take care of the house. B:	Oh, okay.

	T:	I live in Tallahassee, but I drive down here every month to pick up the light bill and water bill and take care of the house.

	B:	Right.



	T:	I don’t know. Deep down in my soul and in my spirit I want to take care of it because my mother was so well-known here. Who knows? Someday it may become a historical place.





	B:	Yeah, almost as famous as Jerkins, right?



	T:	Yeah, who would’ve ever thought that? So, I still come to take care of the house because everybody in this community, you cannot ask nobody out there that went to school at Jerkins, that don’t know my mama. Because she was so concerned about the kids eating and that they get enough to eat and her theory was a kid can’t learn with a hungry stomach. So, when they come in the lunchroom and they say Ms. Thomas, can I have a little bit more? Even though she wasn’t supposed to do it, she would find a way. She would say to the supervisor, give it to them, you’re gonna throw it out doors anyways. Let the children eat!

	B:	Right.



	T:	Because there are families here that the only meal they would get would be when they come to school that day.

	B:	Right.



	T:	So, here concern was that these kids that were coming to school hungry would get a nutritious meal and that could be full and then they could learn.

	B:	Right.



	T:	So, some of the kids didn’t get to eat until they’d come to school. Because their families couldn’t afford to feed large families a whole lot.

	B:	Right. Buy bread and meats and all that stuff to make a sandwich.



	T:	Right. Right. Right. So, not only that, she was so concerned about the children and their diets, she went back to school. She went and took extensive courses at





Florida A&M and she got a certificate in dietaries so that she would be able to plan the meals.

	B:	Wow! So, she really was like the mastermind behind the school lunches here? T:	Yeah.

	B:	From—



	T:	She had a supervisor.



	B:	But she picked out what food, made sure everything was balanced, and— T:	Yeah.

	B:	Because school lunches today are like pizza and French fries and stuff like that.



	T:	We didn’t know that. We never had that. We never had sandwiches. We had cooked food. We had peas and beans and vegetables and milk and if you ate good you might get a little dessert.

	B:	Was all of that state-funded? Where did the money come from to buy the food and all that stuff?

	T:	I’m sure there was some funds provided. B:	There had to have been.

	T:	Yeah, yeah. Because back then they had what we used to call government cheese and milk.

	B:	Oh, we still call it that. [Laughter]



	T:	Yep. So, we’d buy lots. So, I’m sure they had some funds from, you know, the government.

	B:	Some food came in boxes from the government. T:	Yeah.





	B:	But, then, other stuff was bought within the community? Would she had gone to such-and-such’s house to—

	T:	She would have her supervisor probably would’ve provided, you know, or requested that they purchase certain things in certain places because she did have someone over her, but that other lady’s name was Mrs. McClain who was the Home Economics instructor here. I don’t know if she’s still alive, but she worked, you know, she was over them, and she would come, but I really wanted to get it documented, you know, how my mother was hired. Because everybody wasn’t hired that way.

	B:	Right. Right. They picked her out special.



	T:	Because she was coming out here to see about us and the principal would see here so often, so he decided that she would be a good one.

	B:	Yeah.



	T:	And, it turned out that everyone knew my mother for her cooking—even today and she’s been gone now ten years.

	B:	Ten years. Yeah.



	T:	And, everybody just see me and still talk about her.





[Some Interruption]





	B:	So, how did your education change once your mom started working here because I’ve heard that messages, be they good or bad, would always make it home before the kid got home?





	T:	Huh?



	B:	From here. Because that’s just the way it was. It’s that kind of community. T:	Right! Right.

	B:	So—



	T:	I’ve never been in the principal’s office—ever! One time from disciplinary problems—ever!

	B:	Because you knew what would happen.



	T:	I knew what would happen! And, even after I became an employee here, I never went in that office. [Laughter]

	B:	Yeah.



	T:	I’ve stayed out there in the front. From there to the cafeteria taking up the money, bringing it back, and counting it and getting it ready for the bank. I never did one time go into the principal’s office.

	B:	Oh, my gosh.



	T:	Never! One time. B:	It stayed with you. T:	Yes.

	B:	That’s funny. Well, do you remember having to pay for school lunches whenever you were a kid? Do you remember coming and collecting lunch money and having a lunch ticket or anything like that?

	Y:	Yes. Yes, they did. They were like—I want to say twenty-five cent. B:	Okay. Which is a lot. That was a lot back then.





	T:	Yeah! Yeah, yeah. And, then, the kids that couldn’t afford it, they were on free lunch.

	B:	Okay.



	T:	But, a lot of times, you know, kids back then had their little devious ways. The kids that were on free lunch, you know, some of the children would kind of look down on them a little bit, but, then, that was another thing that my mother did not allow. If a kid was getting free lunch and she knew it, she didn’t treat them no different from nobody else. Everybody got the same treatment.

	B:	Because every kid needs the same nutrition.



	T:	Right! Right, right, right. So, it was a good journey and I learned a lot about love and how to serve people from watching my mom in the lunchroom.

	B:	Right.



	T:	And how to treat people.



	B:	How did Jerkins prepare you for what you ended up doing in life? T:	Oh, my word. Do you have time to hear it?

[Laughter]



	B:	Absolutely!



	T:	I will never ever forget the people here at Jerkins that taught me. In fact, I was so impacted about the instructors and how they shaped my life and prepared me for the future, I have since returned three hundred and sixty degrees. There was a lady that worked here that was on the program the day Dr. Rosa Lee Hill, who was not able to come today, she was our music instructor and she, also, was the guidance counselor. Well, she was my mentor in high school and, although I





didn’t pursue my music degree, I’m still involved in music to this day. And, I have since involved with her again recently in the last six years—I volunteer with the Tallahassee Girls’ Choir. So, I get to work with Dr. Hill now again, and that’s been over fifty years ago because she taught me in high school.

	B:	Right.



	T:	But, that had so impacted me, I still love music. And, I still love to give because that’s what her life was all about. There are several teachers that impacted my life. My homeroom teacher who lived across the street over here, she was Ms. Laura Williams when she was teaching me, but she married again and I can’t remember what her last name is now, but she’s still alive. And, I’m not sure if she’s here, I just hadn’t had the time to search and see, but I watched my instructors. I watched everything they did. I watched from the way they dressed, how they spoke, their mannerisms, what they taught, the things that they taught us that we would encounter when we became adults, is still with me today.

	B:	Right.



	T:	And, because of my home training and what they taught me in school, I can’t help but serve people. I still love people and that’s my biggest asset. I love to talk to people. I love to listen to people. I love to shape characters and, of course, I love to sing.

	B:	Right, right.



	T:	[Laughter] Because that’s my passion, but the teachers here was so so different from what we see today.

	B:	How so?





	T:	So dedicated. They were dedicated. For instance, Dr. Hill, when she was here, she was like a mother. She was the first person that ever cut my hair. She would come to my mother’s house, and, if we had a function or something, she would come to my mom’s house and do the girls’ hair. She would make clothes for them. This was our guidance counselor, who was also our music teacher here at Jerkins. That’s the kind of impact I had.

	B:	She was a full-time— T:	Yes! Yes.

	B:	To say that she was a full-time teacher, but her teaching became motherly as guidance and she embodied that guidance counselor way.

	T:	Yes! Exactly! And, she’s still doing that. Even now, in Tallahassee, she’s still doing that. She’s the director of the Girls’ Choir up there and she still help people with their children. She still take people kids in, you know, when they’re having a hard time—girls having a hard time in life and all kind of traumatic things happening to them—she’s still doing the same thing that she was did. When she first started teaching she must’ve been about twenty-one years old.

	B:	Right, right.



	T:	She’s way up in her seventies now. B:	Yeah.

	T:	And, she’s still doing that.



	B:	And, I can imagine the counseling then was really intense. T:	Oh, yeah!





	B:	Because there was a lot about, you know, talking about loving people and everything.

	T:	Yes. Yes.



	B:	There was not a lot of love going on at that point between certain groups of people.

	T:	Right.



	B:	So, do you remember what it was like growing up in the South before desegregation? Before, you know.

	T:	Hard. But, we had so much love. They spread and just embraced us. I didn’t know what discrimination was until I moved away actually.

	B:	Oh, wow.



	T:	There was some going on here in Perry that I heard about, but because I left from home and came to school and all my activities was around school and what was going on here and then I went back home and then, when school was out, my mother would take us down to my grandmother’s down in Orlando.

	B:	Ah. Okay.



	T:	So, I didn’t get to be out and mix with a whole lot of things that were going on in discrimination and all of that. I really didn’t know what real discrimination was until I went away and went to work.

	B:	Where did you work that you found this? T:	I don’t know if I want to tell this. [Laughter] B:	You don’t have to. [Laughter] That’s fine. [Laughter]





	T:	I worked for the State of Florida for thirty-five years and that was where I experienced it.

	B:	Was that in Orlando or various— T:	In Tallahassee.

	B:	Okay. Wow.



	T:	In Tallahassee.



	B:	At that level?



	T:	And, it really hurt. And, it really hurt. It really hurt because they taught us, if you do the right thing, the right thing gonna come back to you. And, I expected that with all my heart. I didn’t know how to politic and be vindictive and do ugly things to people and get to step over somebody to get where I wanted to go. I was told if you get an education and if you do the right thing, good things would come back to you. And that was where I experienced it.

	B:	Right. Do you almost feel like you were a little bit sheltered here? I mean when you think about—

	T:	I was. I was.



	B:	There’s been so much crazy racial stuff going on in Perry that you think of this place as how could you possibly be sheltered here?

	T:	Right!



	B:	But, you really were! And, the community here at Jerkins helped with that sheltering.

		T:	I really was! Yes. Yes. I never really knew what it was. There was an incident that happened here some years ago and it involved	. Somebody





was killed and it was very ugly, but because that had happened my mother had told me, she said, Well, you’re real young. You don’t need to be involved with that. She kept us at home, and, like I say, when school was out. My mother would take us and move and go to Orlando.

	B:	Right.



	T:	To be my grandparents who was living down there. So, then, when it was time for school to start up again we would come back and come back to school.

	B:	Was Orlando any less dangerous or less racial than Perry was?



	T:	I’m not sure because again I was sheltered. My whole life was sheltered really. So, like I said, I didn’t really know about discrimination until I became an adult. I did not experience it until I became an adult. Then, you know, it was very shocking. Very, very shocking. It was hard for me to deal with that.

	B:	Right. How did you deal with that?



	T:	I talked with older people that I knew and I talked with my clergy and, again Dr. Hill, and, you know, I’ve always been around people that inspired me. That was one thing I was taught, If you want to be somebody, you need to embrace the people that is where you want to go. So, that was how I dealt with it.

	B:	And, was that part of how they told you to get through it? They said you just have to embrace what’s good in your own community?

	T:	Yes. Yes. Yes. So, I did and the life I lived is what they taught me—even to this day. I haven’t endured too much from it. I try to give and give back, you know. I try to help, and, of course, my faith helps a lot. So, it has helped me get to where I am. From each point in my life.





	B:	It sounds like faith was something that was very present here at Jerkins. T:	It was.

	B:	Knowing that today that, you know, we’re not allowed to pray in can’t in school and these kind of these, faith was a big part of the schooling here.

	T:	It was. It was. I remember when I was a little girl—because I started school when I was five years old. My mother sent me out to a rural school. I started in a rural school.

	B:	Was it one of the versions of Jerkins that was burned down and then—? T:	Well, what happened, they had burned, what they call a hall, down.

	B:	That was the Masonic Lodge.



	T:	Yep. They had burned that down. And, my mother wanted me to go to school because education was a big thing in my family.

	B:	Sure.



	T:	So, she sent me to school with one of the teachers, her name was Hazel Williams. They had placed here in a rural school right down the road about five miles and the school’s name was Hampton Spring Elementary.

	B:	Okay.



	T:	So, my mother sent me to school down there with her. Well, when they pulled her from down there, they sent her to another rural school called Huxford’s Steele.

	B:	Okay, which I’ve heard a little bit about that.



	T:	So, I went to school there for a little bit. And, then, when they pulled her from there and brought her back to town, and that was when I was at the hall. Well, when that happened, then somewhere, I don’t remember what year they built this





building, and we ended up here. So, I went to three different places before I came to Jerkins.

	B:	Right. And, were you too young to really know what was going on with all the burnings and all that stuff. Is that something that you were aware of?

	T:	I heard my mother and other people talking about it, but I, yeah, I was very young. Very, very young. Because I started school when I was five years old and I graduated too early. I was sixteen when I graduated.

	B:	Oh, my gosh! Wow!



	T:	Because I was in these rural schools and I could get all this attention and my mother was real big on education. I graduated at sixteen.

	B:	So, when you transferred into Jerkins from the hall, I guess was the last place that you were at before Jerkins?

	T:	Yeah. Yeah.



	B:	And, you were already ahead for your age because you had gotten so much of this attention?

	T:	Yes. You’re right. Exactly. My mother had done put me back twice because she said I was going too fast.

	B:	So, she can’t graduate when she’s fourteen? [Laughter]



	T:	Yeah, right. Right. So, they put me back twice and I still graduated at sixteen. I was the youngest in my class and I graduated in ’59.

	B:	Oh, my goodness. And, that’s the result of your mom? T:	Yes, right.





	B:	She really cared about your education. What was the role of education? Like, why was it so important? Why was everybody so crazy about it?

	T:	I think because people like my mom and people older than she was they didn’t get to finish school, you know, and they wanted the best for their children. They wanted the kids to have a better life, and they knew that education would be the route to take. So, they instilled that in us. In fact, my mom told us that—that’s my sister out there from Orlando out there peering in here at me. [Laughter]

	B:	She can come in if she wants.



	T:	She told us that we had to graduate from school. B:	It’s okay. It’s not interrupting.

	T:	She told us that we had to graduate from school. She told us it was one thing we was going to do and that was graduate from high school and go to college. Now, mind you, our father passed away when I was about eight or nine years old. I’m the oldest and she’s next to me, so we knew we had to get our lesson. We couldn’t do what everybody else did. We had to concentrate on school. But, my mother, she was very living. She was all about education.

	B:	And, she finished school, right? T:	Yes!

	B:	Okay.



	T:	Yes, yes.



	B:	It was her parents that probably would’ve—your grandparents might not have finished school?

	T:	Yeah. Right. Right. My grandmother didn’t.





	B:	Okay.



	T:	But, she instilled education in her children. And, she tried to make sure that her children got the right education. Now, that brings me to another point. Our grandfather was custodian at Hummer-Floyd College in Eatonville, Florida.

	U1:	Preparatory school. T:	Preparatory School.

	U1:	It was a private school.



	T:	Yeah. And, because he was there, that made it easy for his children to be able to get a decent education.

	B:	That gave you access to a university? T:	Right. Right.

	T:	My mother’s older sister went before any of the other children because my grandfather and my grandmother instilled education in them. So, it was a big thing in our family. Everybody needed to go school and get what they’re supposed to get, so that they could be able to function in life.

	B:	To get better and better as you go?



	T:	Right. So, I ended up working with the state in administrative work. She’s now teaching and still teaching.

	B:	Funny how the education thing—you know. When get a good education, you come to Jerkins, get a good community, solid, you feel good about yourself and you feel supported, and then you want to be an educator—you know? It’s interesting how that works.





T:  Yes. And, everything they instilled in us, it’s like it repeats itself. Now, she does the same thing that Dr. Hill did; even though she teaching cosmetology, we call her ‘doctor’. We told her she should have gotten a Ph. D because she try to do everything for everybody.

B:   Right.



T:  Not just teach, but the whole parameter. Whatever it takes to put people where they need to be.

B:   Yeah.



	T:	That was really—. I don’t know what to say to you.



	B:	Well, I’m glad you stopped in to talk to us. She said, I had to tell you this one story about my mom. She said if I don’t get to tell you anything else, I have to tell you this one story.

	T:	Yes. I have to tell you that. Yes. Because everybody in Perry know her for her love of people and concern, you know. And, she fed anybody and everybody— not just the school. If they came to the house—

	U1:	She’s sitting right out there. And that’s the truth.



		T:	I know that’s the truth. Everybody knew that Mrs. Thomas would feed you— B:		Feed you good, too. Not just french fries and pizza.

	T:	Yes. And, it was good food. You could smell her food cooking for blocks.



	B:	That probably ruined you for the rest of your life though, now. Since you grew up with really nice food, you are like, ‘Well, we could go to a restaurant’. [Laughter]

	T:	Oh, yeah.





	B:	It’s like “We could go to a restaurant, or we could to go mom’s house. She’s way better.”

	T:	Yes, yes. But I wanted to share it with you because I did want that to go down in history.

	B:	Yeah



	T:	You know a lot of people, it’s a lot of young people here that do not know a lot of the stuff that you all will be hearing about this school and how significant it was and people’s lives that lived here. And like I told you, you could interview anybody out there and ask them do they know Ms. Minnie Thomas and see what they’ll tell you.

	B:	They’ll say yes.



	T:	Yes.



	B:	Might not know why they know her, but they know her [Laughter] Even the little ones-

	T:	They will tell you yes, yes ,yes.



	B:	It’s like “I don’t know, my mom talks about her”. U1:	Or my grandmother.

	T:	‘Oh I heard so and so say that she was a good cook and she feed you’ and really, the neighborhood joke was that all the children in the neighborhood would get fat off of the food that we left and did not want. Because we were all slim and trim and the kids in the neighborhood would come by to eat, and eat our food that we didn’t want.

	B:	Yep.





	T:	And not only that, she would give us a little parties because we wasn’t allowed to go to different places and things and she would have little parties for us and the kids was coming to our house just because they knew she was giving a party.

	B:	Yeah



	T:	Get food [Laughter]



	B:	That’s awesome. I don’t know are they- is something going on right now or are we in the break?

	T:	Everyone’s eating



U1:  Eating and people are going outside and doing different things. I wondered if they were gonna have the tour. Because that’s what I drove all this way for I wanted to see-

T:  Ask those ladies sitting out there they probably know B:  Yeah

	T:	Yeah, she drove all the way up here from Orlando. Just- B:	Just for the tour.

	T:	Yeah, she was so tired this morning, she was



	B:	Oh she drove up here this morning? She wasn’t in town this week? T:	Yeah she just got here.

[Some Interruption]



	T:	She was on the way when she had just walked in.



	B:	Oh ok. Well I don’t wanna keep you. I know you wanna eat and everything too.



	T:	Well we’ll probably go to a restaurant because they probably are finished. But I hope I gave you something.





	B:	Oh no you did. Yeah, no this has been lovely.



	T:	That would help. And when you put it together I would love to see my mom’s name in there because she really really served. She really served a long time.

	B:	Definitely yeah and you hear a lot about professors. You don’t normally hear about guidance counselors, lunchroom workers, custodians-

	T:	The forgotten people. B:	Yeah!

	T:	It’s just not the instructor, it’s everybody. B:	It is!

	T:	Even the custodians, and people never speak about those people. The forgotten people.

	B:	Yeah, it’s like you almost forget it because there’s so many other big names to talk about too.

	T:	Right. It’s just not all about the professors. It’s everybody that had love and had something to share, and to give and that’s why I wanted to make sure my mother’s name was in there because again everybody—you know she touched a lot of lives and it meant a lot. Especially the hungry children.

	B:	Exactly, for the children that yeah. Well thank you so much. It was a pleasure talking to you.

	T:	Thank you!



	B:	And let me get you to sign this little paper it’s just a little thing to say that it’s okay to put it in the archives.

	T:	Okay.





B:   And use it for this project and for educational purposes and things like that.



Because, did I explain to you how there’s teachers in Alachua County that don’t know how to teach the Civil Rights because they just got what’s in the book and they’re like ‘I don’t think that’s all there is to it”.

T:   Really?



	B:	So they would like to put more oral histories in their classrooms. Like play a little bit of an oral history so that students can hear a voice talking about their experience.

	T:	Okay.



	B:	So it could be used like that too but it’ll go in our archive for educational purposes.

	T:	Well that’s good. I’m sure you’ll get more excerpts from me. B:	Yeah! [Laughter]

	T:	And I hope it was helpful. B:	Yeah.

[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Sandra Romero Audit Edited by:	Ebony Love

	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 18, 2019