AAHP 773; Holmes; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 773 Joseph Holmes 2-29-2020 Interviewed by Paul Ortiz on February 29, 2020 37 minutes | 22 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Mr. Joseph Holmes discusses his experience as a Black military veteran. He recounts his early life, his family and education, as well as his experiences living through the Jim Crow era as a child and young man. He explains how he joined the US Marine Corps, the training he received at Parris Island and his time at Camp Pendleton, describing race relations among members of the military. While never deployed in Vietnam, Mr. Holmes talks about the fear surrounding the war, the traumatic nature of what other veterans experienced, as well as his own experiences as an electrician, charged with repairing Huey jets. He discusses his work as Post Commander for the American Legion Post 193, and how the military, as well as the broader community, has changed over time.





Keywords: [Vietnam, veteran, military, race relations, Black history]



AAHP 773

Interviewee: Joseph Holmes Interviewer: Paul Ortiz

Date: February 29, 2020



	O:	Alright, so it’s February 29, I’m at the American Legion Post 180— H:	193.

	O:	193, excuse me. So, I’m here with Mr.— H:	Joseph Holmes.

	O:	Mr. Joseph Holmes. And Mr. Holmes, would you mind spelling your last name? H:	H-O-L-M-E-S.

	O:	Thank you so much. Mr. Holmes, first of all I want to thank you for agreeing to spend time out of your busy day to do the interview and I wonder if you could start by giving me a sense of how you ended up in the US military?

	H:	Uh, short answer? Draft. I was drafted. O:	Okay.

	H:	You know what I mean? I’m in a year that Vietnam was hot, and I came out of high school, eighteen, and registered. Before you could get out the door, you had to learn.

	O:	Wow. What year was that, sir? H:	1965.

	O:	Wow. So that was relatively early in the war. H:	Uh-huh.

	O:	Okay. Do you remember, Mr. Holmes, when you were growing up, do you remember anyone talking about Vietnam? Or—

	H:	No. No. I’ll tell you the first thing, first time I was here—now, I went to a private school, I went to Catholic school, and I had to do a term paper for my senior





year, I believe? And I was reading the Newsweek article about this going-on. And, only war I knew was seeing John Wayne’s—[laughter]—you know what I mean?

	O:	Right.



	H:	So, no. That’s the first I experienced or knowledge of that was seeing that. O:	Okay. What did you think when you got that fateful notice to—

	H:	Well, like most of us in my generation, especially from small southern town and the background I was from, it was a way out. It was a job. It was, what they say? Four meals and a cot, four cots a squad, you know—

	O:	Right, right.



	H:	And that’s how most of us looked at it. Was no fear amongst us. We going to war, I mean, war was a ideology to us.

	O:	Right. When you were growing up, did you know of or hear stories told by Black military veterans from, say, Korea, World War II, or—?

	H:	Yeah, my great-grandfather, he’s World War I. My grandfather, World War II, my dad was Korea. In fact, when I was drafted, being mid-[19]60s, integration was still out there down here. And, I was basically told uncles who was in “Well, tell me what ship or wherever to go ‘cause all I’m gonna do, you either gonna be a mess cook or a steward,” you know? But I fooled them.

	O:	[Laughter] Right.



	H:	But that’s all, I mean, yeah, they all had their little stories. But I don’t know how serious any of us my age could have took it.

	O:	Yeah. What was boot camp like?





	H:	I was a Marine, alright? Never been so scared in my life. [Laughter] Pull up in Parris Island, this big Black man gets out and started yelling at us, then a little, short White guy, calling us all names I’ve never heard, saying that we’re— [laughter]—what they gonna do to us. You know, most of us started crying, we wanted Mama.

	O:	[Laughter] Yeah, I don’t blame you.



	H:	Yeah, that was Marines. It made a man out of you. O:	Wow.

	H:	It made a man out of you. O:	So, that was in 1965?

	H:	Sixty—actually, I went in at— O:	[19]66?

	H:	Right.



	O:	Okay.



	H:	Latter part of December [19]65 was when I went in and I was out of boot camp February, March timeframe.

	O:	Wow. Now, Mr. Holmes, you mentioned earlier—so you’re at least a fourth generation [inaudible 4:25]—

	H:	Right. Well, I have a daughter who’s an EA in the Army. My grandson went to the flight program.

	O:	Wow, that’s amazing. H:	Right, so we have—

	O:	So, that’s six generations?





	H:	Right, exactly. Exactly.



	O:	Okay. Well, now, you growing up hearing some stories of elders—and you mentioned the term integration in the military, what were your experiences with race when you first arrived at Parris Island like?

	H:	We didn’t. In fact, it was kind of like—and I guess that was the intent—but we was thrown together, you know? I mean, in fact, I think it was more camaraderie between the southerners, Black and White—

	O:	Black and White?



	H:	‘Cause we was against the northerners, you know? Because it was a group of them from Philly, around there, and they was looking at us like we were little old country boys. So, we had to bond.

	O:	Yeah.



	H:	So, but for us, along—boot camp for us along racial lines? I didn't see that. I'm not gonna say what number, was—like I said, that’s most of their first time away from Mama, you know? Eighteen—

	O:	Everyone was terrified and so, do you have a sense that people kind of pulled together?

	H:	Yeah, yeah. Exactly.



	O:	Okay. Wow. Now, what became your MOS?



	H:	I can’t recall the number, but I was ground electronics, radar repair, you know? And there is when I started experiencing what I shouldn’t have. Shouldn’t never have been, everybody was shocked that me—you know, at that point, a Black was getting that type of school—





	O:	Wow.



	H:	The type of schools I received, you know? O:	Okay.

	H:	Well, of course, at that age not knowing. In fact, the first time I ever felt any, I'm not gonna say animosity, realized what was what—took an exam and the instructor—I'm not gonna say necessarily aced it, but I was top of the group and when he came in, in order to berate, I guess, the other guys, he made this comment saying “I don’t understand. The men who shouldn't have passed it. Mr. Holmes, over there”—not Mr. Holmes, but Private Holmes over there—and the rest of them was White because they were—basically, he was telling me, me being Black and my background, I shouldn’t have.

	O:	Shouldn’t have. Wow.



	H:	Right. And that stuck with me. That stuck with me. But, in retrospect a lot of it I look back on that made—cause when I was thrown on the bench to repair the radars., being young, well, you look at the schematic and say, “Well, change this. So, I would go to the supply guy who was a civilian, I’d say “Well, I need a [inaudible 7:31].” He said, “How do you know?” He said “Get your ass out of here,”—[laughter]—“And until you can tell me why you want to change that.” So, that taught me well, I can pull through this you know? So, I started going back to him and, like I said, I became one of the better techs they had because of that guy. Now, whether he did it deliberately, I don’t know.

	O:	Well, it was an obstacle that you had to overcome and— H:	Right, right.





	O:	Wow, that’s amazing. So, Mr. Holmes, after you finished your advance training, boot camp advanced training, where was your first duty station?

	H:	California. Pendleton.



	O:	Camp Pendleton, okay. Now, what was that like going from Pensacola to Camp Pendleton?

	H:	Aw man—[laughter]. Well, actually, it was more like going from Pensacola— ‘cause all my schooling was in San Diego—

	O:	Okay, [inaudible 8:29], yeah.



	H:	You know, so, right. So, that was the culture shock there, you know? O:	What was San Diego like in those years?

	H:	I loved it. You know, it was San Diego, military town like this was, it—cause I don’t think it still is—I loved it. It was slow, but it was big, you know what I mean? And of course, every [inaudible 8:57] so, military had a certain area where we would go and by age a certain area, and then on the underage can’t drink all of us, we went to Mexico, went down to Tijuana.

	O:	Right, yeah.



	H:	And even there, Black and White, we were together. We get down there, regardless of what we did, when we got down there, we was one. One of us get in trouble, it’s like the whistle we all come together, if it needs to get them out of jail, we all put our money. We took care of each other. But going to Pendleton, I don’t know, Pendleton I was kind of lost, I mean, it was, I wouldn’t—you was there, being the grunt that was staging, , no one was there long. You know, you see them come in, go to their little training, next thing you see them put them on





the plane and they in ‘Nam. Next thing you know, here come the boat or the plane come in and they unload the rubber sheets. That’s when the reality hit.

O:   Wow.



H:  The same way we’re being told, you know— O:  Yeah, sure.

H:   Going through boot camp, they tell us that a Marine says “Takes ten of them to kill one of us. So, you know, we was all gung-ho, you know, “Yeah I’m ready for my ten—“

O:   Yeah.



H:  But you sit there in staging for a while and see all them bodies coming back, you say “Hell, that’s a lot of tens”—[laughter].

O:   There’s a lot of tens, yeah. Dang.



	H:	That’s what I been told, you know? But anyway…



	O:	Wow, that must have been so terrifying. Now, were you in contact with your family during this time?

	H:	Uh, we wrote a letter here, a letter there— O:	Okay.

	H:	You know, so, that’s about it.



	O:	Right. Now, ended up going to Vietnam— H:	No, I didn’t.

	O:	No, okay.



	H:	I did not go to ‘Nam.



	O:	So, did you have friends that went there?





	H:	Oh yeah. Yeah, I had guys I went to boot camp with that we became close friends, and so guys I went through that school with, you know? You know, they’ll go over—in fact, one of the guys I finished high school with—couple of the guys I finished high—went over, didn’t come back. You know?

	O:	Wow.



	H:	But still, I didn’t have the experience of being over there, knowing what the rest had to deal with. When it came, when I finally got orders, what saved me—I got orders to a support unit, and we was set to deploy [inaudible 11:35] and at the time, I was in the fifth. Fifth was just form ready to go, first was over there. And when Tet broke, they had to hold the grunts. No, they sent the grunts to reinforce, but the support unit they kept the first over there and just held us in the field, held us at Pendleton to deploy later.

	O:	Right.



	H:	You know, so, that’s the only thing that kept me out of ‘Nam.



	O:	Wow. You mentioned earlier on, people didn’t really know what was happening in Vietnam, but now, we’re two or three years later, so what were—Marines, when they would talk about Vietnam, how would they talk about it? Like, how did that change?

	H:	Most of them, didn’t know what PTSD was at the time, but you could tell—you get in conversation with some of the guys who’ve been there, you could see this stare, come over. They’re not being and not really understand—some of them, I guess, still don’t understand it, but it was just something. And they’re all—cause





most of the stories was their survival. All about survival—it’s still not experience and then understand where they were at with that, you know?

	O:	Right.



	H:	In fact, one of my best friends, we—well, we didn’t go over together, he went over ahead of me—darn smart guy too, and he survived, he came back—I was out by then, you know, we kind of rekindled our relationship. But growing up with someone, you can tell the change, and he never was alright, never was right. In fact, John died young too. I don’t know was the result of Agent Orange or what, but he never was right, you know?

	O:	Wow. Now you had a very technical job. Can you describe what your job was?



Like, how—?



	H:	Well, they had units that were called “People finders,” which was really ground radar, little box, and they would sit them out on the perimeter. And supposedly, just like these sensors now, if somebody cross it, it goes off. But somebody cross that, you got somebody sitting looking at a monitor. Basically, that's what I was trained to do. When in actuality, all I did was squat boxes, radios, you know?

Because from what I was told, they didn’t even use—[laughter]—the people finders over there, you know?

	O:	Yeah.



	H:	And then I was also electronics at the base too, cause when I left, got out, I didn't have breaking service [inaudible 14:36]. And then, doing that, we was pretty much repair the Hueys, the H1s, that was used in ‘Nam.

	O:	Okay. Oh, wow.





	H:	So, you know, I was a civilian in the background, but I was still supporting— O:	Wow. And where was that? That was—

	H:	At a naval air station.



	O:	Naval air station, okay. Wow.



	H:	You know, it was an overhaul repairs facility.



	O:	So, you used the training that you received in the Marines and then what you learned on the job and then you used that directly to repair Hueys?

	H:	Right.



	O:	Okay. Wow. What were the types of—I mean, I had uncles who were in Vietnam in that era, so I can picture a Huey, but—walk me through, like, a Huey comes back and needs repair, what does that mean?

	H:	That means you got to do a complete breakdown; take the engine out, you take all the electronics out, you take the blades off, and you—it’s just like rebuilding the entire—

	O:	The whole thing?



	H:	Right. We had a blade facility there, once they redid the blades, you could spin it to make sure they was balanced, but I was electronics, so I’d just jump in there, pull it out, carry it back to the shop, do my tests, whatever it was, make sure it was functional, carry it back, reinstall.

	O:	Okay. So, when you would go in, how many Hueys could you work on as an electrician per day, was it just like one or—?

	H:	No, it was more like an assembly process, you know? You might be assigned to the tail section and you supposed to just do a certain thing there. Me, I’m





assigned to another portion that was only my job. So, they’d bring them in there, the entrance of the hangar, and progress it through. And when it went out, you know, it’d go to Sherman and test flight and that was it.

	O:	Wow. Right back into the field.



	H:	Yeah. The only thing about a lot of guys, frankly, a lot of the guys can tell you.



You know, they came in and there’d be blood and guts.



	O:	In the helicopter?



	H:	In the helicopter. So, you know. And a lot of the guys back then—now, see, that’s what kind of helped to build this force, it was having that military presence. So, you had the [inaudible 17:07] doctor, and so, like, you had a lot of senior military, you know? And then you had the ONR, the North, the Navy, or whatever, you know, we got dragged in [19]95, I believe. But you had that group, and so a lot of the guys, once they retired, could transition ‘cause they had a program called the VRA, it was veterans with prior military, they kind of got preference in getting civil service jobs.

	O:	Okay, yeah.



	H:	You know, I might [inaudible 17:37] fifty years, but a lot of them would retire and with their experience and background, transition right into the NATO. So, that kind of help held a lot of that type, you know, then they closed it, so…

	O:	Wow. Now, Mr. Holmes, so when was the first time that you came back home after going through boot camp? Like, when was the first time you came back to Pensacola?

	H:	Oh, well, after boot—right out of boot camp.





	O:	Okay, right out of boot camp? Okay.



	H:	Right out, yeah, right out of boot camp. I did get to—cause I was, my orders was to San Diego, so I had maybe thirty days.

	O:	Wow. Now, what was it like coming back home, did people react to you differently? Did they—

	H:	Yeah, yeah. They all, especially the little guys you grew up with that didn’t go or couldn’t go—and, you know, you became somebody. I mean, they looked at you in awe, you was somebody, you know? I remember I went to a little dance, something I didn’t do, and all the guys said “Man, where ya uniform? Where ya uniform?” You know what I mean? And they get there and the stares, you know, especially those who knew me, because they thought I was a little whimp, thought I was a little nerd. “You a Marine?”. Yeah, but that’s how that was.

	O:	Wow. Did you have a sense of pride coming back home?



	H:	Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah, sure did. You know, to be honest with you, I always wanted to be a Marine. Coming up, I’m a typical—coming up down here, I didn’t really have a father, so my mom, grandmom, great-grandmom, all women raised me, so in saying that I said, well, I’m a whimp. You know, I don’t know what it is to be a man. So, going to the Marines, like I told you earlier, they make a man out of you.

	O:	Right. Yeah.



	H:	You know? They make a man out of you. So, that’s how that was.



	O:	So, when did you join—we’re currently, just to describe for anyone listening, so we’re currently in American Legion Post 193. When did you first join the Post?





	H:	In [19]88. I’ve been a member now for, I think, thirty-two years. I think it was [19]88 that I joined. And the reason I joined, I did a lot with kids, because when I got out, you know, I had children myself, I coached, and—juniors, you know, I played, I also played that role like I did the Little League. But that's basically what it is, this places like this, and I had no interest in them. And then I had a couple guys who worked for me, and they started talking—you know, older guys—no one, you know, “We need your expertise,” we need—you know, and that's how I ended up coming here, and walked in and got involved and never left. Never left. And I think that's what's happening to a lot of the—especially here, you don't have that young feeder anymore. You know, the—what fed it was, like I said, a strong military presence. Now, you got kids going to school here. This ain’t where they wanna be. There’s other options, you know—

	O:	Other than military.



	H:	Right. Other than military other than the socials. O:	Okay.

	H:	You know—well, you may know, sir, you know when you leave the base, you want to get out there—

	O:	Get away from the— H:	Yeah, right.

	O:	Well, what impact—so you even before you joined—cause this post has an amazing history, I was looking at your charter, goes all the way back to the very end of World War II, so what kind of role has this post played historically in the community?





	H:	To be honest with you, I don’t know. You know in fact, I wasn’t even aware of it for quite a few years. Not to say it didn’t—once I got involved with it, yes. I’ll tell you—in fact, I became a commander, and I know we did quite a bit. We used to have what we call “Christmas in January” projects over here. You know, Christmas we’d bring over the kids, we’d get out and give them bikes. that was the only Christmas they’ve had. And how we was able to acquire a lot of that, we had guys who’d go and knock on doors for donations, go to Walmart or Zales or Shopper’s Fair and get commitments. We used to do that. The 9/11, you know, we sent a healthy amount of money up there to Red Cross from here. So, we’ve been involved in the community. Of course we do little programs that everybody did, but—and we still do. And the ladies right now, you know—of course women are gonna carry the mantle for the—

	O:	So, the auxiliary is pretty active?



	H:	Oh, yeah. Wasn’t for them, we might have problems, you know? We’d have problems [inaudible 23:15].

	O:	So, Mr. Holmes, did you say your daughter and grandchild— H:	Grandson.

	O:	Grandson is in the military. Can you talk about what they do, like, how they—? H:	My daughter, she’s, I say—like I say, EA. But she’s a accountant. In fact, she’s in

Germany, but she’s senior I mean her rates pretty good ‘cause she’s an accountant—

	O:	Yeah.





H:  My grandson, I can’t get into much, so—but he’s Air Force, pilot, and his base station is Oklahoma, but he deploys to areas sometimes on missions he can’t really discuss with me—

O:   Right.



H:   You know, but yeah.



	O:	Wow. Thinking about the history of the post here and your family history, what impact overall has the military had in your family?

	H:	Weren’t for the military and that experience, it enabled me to educate all four of my daughters. All of them have a degree, two of them have master’s, my grandkids, two of them got degrees and those who don’t is still in school, you know? So, I look at myself and where I came from—like I tell folks, when I came—the area of town I was raised in called Tan Yard but I was raised in a shotgun house with a outhouse. My job was to empty the slop jar, , but I—but in doing that, that humbled me enough to know that none of my kids was gonna have to do this, you know? So, I sacrificed to make sure that didn’t happen.

	O:	And then what, in the Marines, you mentioned you were doing a lot of really challenging, difficult technical work. What was your rank in the Marines?

	H:	Uh, the social?



	O:	Yes.



	H:	E5.



	O:	E5, wow. Okay.



	H:	In fact, I made four right out of school. Tto me, I ranked too fast, because I was E4 when I listed, you know? Corporal.





	O:	That’s a very fast promotion.



	H:	I know, I know it. Because there was meritorious promotion, because of schools, you know? Because—[laughter]—I’ll never forget it, I was over with a group of guys, they were just coming back from ‘Nam, and I felt so insecure with them.

And especially listening to them. They all had this camaraderie because they had guts blown all over them, you know? They had these kinds of stories you could hear. They on parole and the guy next to them get hit, they say, they’d get guts and brain matter all over them, you know? I mean, you could hear it. Yeah.

	O:	Yeah. Wow, that’s amazing. So I forgot to ask the question—so, the training, like, how long was the training?

	H:	Twelve weeks.



	O:	Twelve weeks, okay. Did you have to, was it like classroom—?



	H:	Wait a minute, let’s back up. When you say training, you mean training at Parris Island?

	O:	Post Parris Island. So, for your—



	H:	Oh, after Parris, that was my electronics A school, shoot, that was about eight months—seven months, eight months? You know, ‘cause with electronics and—

	O:	Right. Now, what did they do to prepare you? Like, was there classroom preparation first and, like, math or things like that?

	H:	Yeah, yeah. It was—what you were getting out of [inaudible 27:35] West Florida, University of Florida. What was available at that time, you know, math, sciences—

	O:	Sciences?





H:   Yeah. Sure was.



O:  Okay. The area here has always been pretty heavily military, you know, different posts and bases and so on and so forth—in the [19]60s and then in the [19]70s, Vietnam kind of rises and then begins extinguish. What kind of an impact did that have on this community?

H:  Well, you see, basically it’s Navy. So being Navy, you know, when you had the lax—course, the impact was also social, economic, of course, I mean, you know?

O:   Right.



	H:	But, you know, it wasn’t like being in an Army town—I’m assuming, I never been in an Army town, but when I was in Oceanside, they had a lot of stay-at-home babies.

	O:	Uh-huh.



	H:	But I guess the main thing about this area was the impact it had on—it was that base, you know? Like I said, they had a railroad facility which employed maybe, what, thirty-three hundred people? And when they closed that, that was a good lick—and then, not only the main site here, they had outlying bases, they had Whiting Field, they had [inaudible 29:17]. That was the economy of this city. And like I said, once they started collapsing, it was noticeable. Because, like I say, I was fortunate, I retired from the base, but—well, actually, I did and I didn’t, I retired but I ended up, you know, once they bracked us—you know what a brack is, right?

	O:	Uh…





	H:	The term brack? Well, that’s when Congress says—when we was collapsing, well we don’t need ten bases, we only need nine, we don’t need—

	O:	Oh, okay. Okay, yeah.



	H:	So anyway, when they bracked us, which means they shut us down, I think it really pissed everyone, cause we knew we was doing a good job, we knew we was the best out there, you know? But that’s when your first taste of politics— [laughter]—you understand that?

	O:	Uh-huh.



	H:	But after that, and then they started bringing the kids in, of course. They’re saying—when I say “kids,” you know, the training—so that was a different breed of military, you know? Different age, different—yeah, but that was about it.

	O:	Uh-huh. What kind of changes over time, Mr. Holmes, have you seen in, say, race relations in Pensacola?

	H:	Oh… I came up during Jim Crow, alright? I remember, as a kid—well shit, as an adult too, walking to the back of the bus when there were empty seats up front. I remember going downtown and, heat of summer, thirsty—two faucets, one White, one Black. Whites was, you know, not “air cool” but it was cool water, you drank what came out, you know? Ordered, stand in the back until the waitress recognize you and say, “I want so and so,” but you couldn’t sit there, you’d get it and go. That’s what I grew up with. Now? It’s still there in a lot of areas, but it’s more obverted, you know? And I’ve placed myself in a position that—I’m not isolated, but I know, I don’t accept certain things that I didn’t have the choice before.





	O:	What kind of impact has the military had on race relations?



	H:	Here? I think, I’m in a transitional—and I look at, like I said, how I grew up and the military was here then, but—I think a lot of the guys, if you get in conversation, they—because like I was saying, when you went to war—and my age group been to war—and it wasn’t about the color of your skin, it was about “I want to go home alive” and however I got there, you know. So I had, like they turned you in when I was in boot, you know? You only good as the man that got your plane, you know? And I think a lot of that stuck, once you got out and got, you know, it stuck. You still had that level of camaraderie ‘cause you knew what you went through with that guy. Our work, it’s the only reason you’re here today. So, that’s the way I looked at it.

	O:	Exactly. Wow. How long were you Post Commander of the American Legion, Mr.



Holmes?



	H:	[Laughter] I’ve been Post Commander five or six times— O:	Wow.

	H:	You know, so [inaudible 33:53]—in fact, well, yeah, they kept voting me in. But we did a lot and I had the right age group with me. It was a group of us, basically same age, ex-military. So, we still have that in us. And the women. I don’t know if you guys want to be in, but I had a couple of ladies that came along. In fact, they was employees of mine at the base. And together, wwe did a lot of [inaudible 34:24], you know?

	O:	Yeah, the physical shape of the hall is really impressive; I mean, it’s a really nice building.





	H:	Well, when I first joined, I think when they first moved over, they had to fund so they blocked it, and that’s all that was here. This was all blocked, wasn’t nothing to do with that. And so, like I said, that group of us coming in, we garnered up the money and did all of this. So…

	O:	What would be your advice to someone who’s just starting to assume the leadership of the Post? Like, what are kind of the secrets about how to be a good Post Commander?

	H:	Get your peoples’ respect. There’s nothing that you say. You don’t wear your [inaudible 35:18], you know? It don’t matter if you Commander or who you are, if you can’t get people to work with you, work for you, you’re nobody. You know? So, thing is just circulate, keep a smile, don’t be judgmental ‘cause you never know what’s what. People see that, they’ll follow you.

	O:	Wow, very cool. Well, Mr. Holmes, I know I’ve taken up a lot of your time, but are there any things we haven’t talked about that you would like to talk about?

	H:	No, no. I’m kind of letting you guide me through, but no. Like I said, the only thing I hate now is seeing what I’m seeing in us declining—but when you say declining membership, you got two types of membership. You got the numbers that say you got four hundred members, but of that, there ain’t even twenty in the room, well only twenty of them you see.

	O:	Right.



	H:	You know. But back then, them that twenty was—most of them were senior, listed ex-senior enlisted, so they knew things, they how to make things happen. You just don’t have that anymore. The kids, I don’t think they’re interested in it





‘cause in a place like this, they prefer being downtown, you know? Whereas we didn’t really have a choice. But other than that, that’s about it. You’re okay?

	O:	Alright.



	H:	I hope you got what you wanted! O:	Thank you, sir! Yeah, it’s—

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Jessica Alvarez, March 11, 2021 Audit Edit by:	Sandra Romero, May 18, 2021 Final-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, May 18, 2021