AAHP 500; Henry; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 500 Elmer Henry Interviewed by Dan Obrist on June 07, 2017

1hour 8 minutes | 34 pages



Abstract: In this interview Elmer Henry talks about growing up in the Depression era with his family in Alachua County. He also recall growing up in Gainesville, Florida after his family moved from Jacksonville, Florida. He also got drafted into the United States Navy and shipped to San Diego California for training. It was in the Navy where he became a cook. After training he set sail on the USS Mississippi for Pearl Harbor. He talks about his experiences in time of war and what it was like to be in the military as a Black man.



Keywords: [African American History; Gainesville, Florida; Depression era; United States Navy; Cook; USS Mississippi; Pearl Harbor; Veterans’ History]



AAHP 500

Interviewee: Elmer Henry Interviewer: Dan Obrist Date: June 6, 2017



	O:	Good Morning!



	H:	Good Morning sir.



	O:	My name is Dan Obrist, O-B-R-I-S-T, and I’m an interviewer with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program, University of Florida. Today’s date is June 7th, 2017, and I’m interviewing today Elmer Henry. Now, Elmer, again give me your name and then spell your name for us?

	H:	My name is Elmer Henry. E-L-M-E-R, H-E-N-R-Y. I was born on January the 4th 1925.

	O:	And where were you born Elmer? H:	Jacksonville, Florida.

	O:	Okay. And any siblings, brothers or sisters? H:	I had one sister living.

	O:	One sister-



	H:	One sister living. And five brothers. Three sisters. O:	And you grew up during the Depression?

	H:	Sure did. In Gainesville, Florida. O:	Can you tell me about that?

	H:	I was born and grew up during the Depression. I was born in Jacksonville, came to Gainesville. Mother and father told me when I was two years old, and I lived on





Davis Lane. Down there used to be Alachua general hospital, and I lived there my childhood until I was about thirteen. Then I moved from there to Southwest 6th Street. And I lived there until I went into service.

	O:	Now why did your parents move to Gainesville?



H:   My mother was raised in Micanopy, Florida. She married my daddy, they moved to Jacksonville, they moved back from Jacksonville to Gainesville. My father was born in Gainesville, Florida.

O:  So essentially he wanted to come back home for family? H:  I guess so.

	O:	And what did he do to support the family?



	H:	My father worked in a coffin factory where they made coffins. Down on South Main Street. The Green’s Mill and Coffin Factory.

	O:	What was it like growing up in Gainesville during that time? H:	It was kinda rough.

O:   How so?



	H:	Well, it was during The Depression. We couldn’t go places that we wasn’t allowed to go.

	O:	What do you mean by that?



	H:	Well we couldn’t go in different stores, and then when we went in a store, and some White person came in, we had to wait until they waited on them before they





waited on us. We didn’t ride the school bus, we had to walk. We couldn’t go in no restaurant, we had to go round to the back door. They’d sell your sandwich out the back door. You couldn’t go downtown and sit at those little eating joints they had downtown, like Bennet’s Drug Store, Canola’s Drug Store and Wyatt’s Drug Store where they had a sandwich counter; we couldn’t go in there. We had to walk where we went. Then we’d be walking the streets. The White kids would pass us on the school bus and throw rotten eggs on us. Go on to school, holler “Walk nigger walk”. All such stuff like that.

	O:	So they would yell at you, throw eggs at you…



	H:	Yeah. We had to walk in the cold, they rode the bus.



	O:	Now, for the record, it’s probably obvious now, because we’re not doing any video, but that is only because you are Black. Is that correct?

	H:	That is correct.



	O:	Okay. Because the color of your skin? H:	That’s right.

	O:	How did that make you feel? What were you thinking at that time?



	H:	Well, I was small, I didn’t know what to think. I had to do what my mother and father told me.

	O:	What did they tell you to do?



	H:	Stay out of trouble. Don’t bother with the White people. Do as they say to do, and you’d be alright. So that’s what I did. You had to say “Yes ma’am” and “No





ma’am” to the White ladies, you had to say “Yes sir” and “No sir” to the White men. So that’s the way life was.

	O:	What was your school like? What was the condition of the school?



	H:	When I first started school, I went to a lady who was teaching school in a wooden building by the name of Ms. Jones. It was on 8th street then, the same street the Duncan Brothers funeral home was on. I think my daddy paid a dollar a quarter a week to go to school there, and we had to walk by GHS which was located where the house was down on 4th avenue that was on Masonic Street during that time. So now we had to go all the way around two or three blocks out the way to keep them from throwing rocks at us and stuff. And when I left there in the third grade I went to Lincoln School which is A. Quinn Jones School. That was the only Black school we had. You went from second grade to twelfth grade.

	O:	In the same building? H:	In the same building.

	O:	Can you remember what was an estimate of the number of students? H:	I know it was well over a thousand.

	O:	But it was the only public school in the community-



	H:	It was the only public school in the community for the Blacks to go to. They had two schools that called it Union Academy, over on 2nd Street now, where they got reparations from that, that’s where my daddy went to school at.

	O:	How far was he able to go in school?





	H:	My daddy finished school. O:	He did.

	H:	But he didn’t go to college. O:	He finished high school?

	H:	Yeah he finished high school. O:	That had to be a struggle!

	H:	Yeah it was a struggle. It was a struggle when I was going to school. O:	Sure.

	H:	You didn’t make no money then. My daddy was making ten dollars a week and he had to pay a dollar a quarter or a dollar and a half for house rent. He had to buy groceries, cause groceries wasn’t as high as it is now. They had a store that you could go to. They called it the Red and White Food Store. And they’ll sell you a number two of bacon, lard, sugar, flour, grits and rice. And once a month they had a place up there between University Avenue and Old Avenue which was the train station. We went up there once a month and got government commodities, they’d give you the yellow grits, a bag of flour, some lard and some cheese, then you’d go back on Friday and they’d give us some pork in the can and a bag of white potatoes. And sometimes they’d have green cabbages.

	O:	Now how large was your family at the time? You, your sister, your mom and dad- but was there other siblings?

	H:	Yeah.





	O:	How many children were there altogether?



	H:	There were seven. You see people have all that land up there where the Sorority’s house is, now that was Black people’s land. And they farmed. They had cows, and during that time, the Black people would help each other. They’d give you milk, give you eggs. They’d give each other food. Especially if you had a larger family. They helped each other. Gas wasn’t but ten cents a gallon. Oil was five cents a quart. Kerosene was five cents a gallon. We had a wooden stove.

We’d go out in the woods and get the wood to cook on it. And heating the fireplace. See, Black people always know how to make a living. Then the people who worked out on University. Out there on the farm, they’d give them milk we used to get our children. Go out to the university dairy, you had to be out there in the morning at 7 o’clock. We’d go out there with our jugs and they’d fill them up with milk, and we could go back that afternoon, ‘round 4 o’clock, and they’d give us more milk, and then the people who worked out there on the farm, they’d come home and bring greens and sweet potatoes and sometimes they’d bring eggs home from the poacher farm out there. And if you lived in the neighborhood, they’d give people in the neighborhood some of it. They drive a mule and wagon from the university block, the university owned a mule and wagon, where they worked in the farm and plowed it. Then one worked in the dairy and right next up in the neighborhood, back it in the wagon, and give it to the people in the neighborhood, and they’d get a wagon back, sometimes they’d keep it overnight, park it in the yard ‘til they go to work the next morning.

	O:	Did you work as you got older? Before you left home?





	H:	Yeah, I went to work when I was thirteen years old. O:	Okay, but not while you were in school?

	H:	Yeah I was in school.



	O:	While you were in school you worked?



	H:	Yeah. First job I had was up there in the Seagle building. I would go on to work on frying. The man asked if I could clean fish, and I told him yeah. He said “You want to work today?” and I told him “Yeah.” He said “It’ll be a dollar and a half, and you take all the chicken foots and chicken necks that the White people don’t want, and take them home with you in the fish bag.” So I thought that was a good deal. But then he took me in the back and showed me how to light up the big ol’ ten tub of oil that would get hot, he showed me how to wring a chicken neck, I already knew how to, and he showed me how to clean a chicken too.

	O:	Now you were eighteen years old at the time, you said. H:	No I was thirteen years old. One-three.

	O:	Oh thirteen! I’m sorry. So this is 1938? H:	Yeah.

	O:	So you worked a lot when you were in school, also?



	H:	Yeah. And I worked there. I went to work there that Friday at about 9 o’clock. And a man ordered a gallon of oysters. And he told me where to take them at. So I came around there and I knock on the back door before entering, and the man said “Who is it!” And I said, “They boy from the fish market with a gallon oysters.”





So he answered the door, and he told me to take them in there where you see that big ol’ fat man sitting in that office in there. So I went in there, and I told him “I got a gallon of oysters for you”. And the man said he didn’t order it, so he turned around looked at me and said “You working for him?” I said “Yeah.” He said “How you like to work for me? I’ll give you two dollars and fifty cents a week and all the hamburgers and hotdogs you can eat, and soda you can drink. I got to carrying money, you can come get it.” He said, “Do you want to work for me?” I told him “Yeah.” He said “The name of this place is the Sandwich Bar. My name is Steve McNullen. You’re working for me now.”

	O:	How long did you work for him?



	H:	I worked for him until I went in the service. O:	What was the relationship like?

	H:	It was fine when I started working for him. He asked was I going to school and I told him yeah. And what time I got out of school I told him. He said “Where you live at?” I told him where I lived at. And he told me “I’ll tell you what I’ll do, when you get out of school, you come here, you get you something to eat, you go to work. I won’t keep you late. I’ll let you work just by nine or ten o’clock, then I’ll take you home. I said “Alright”. He told me “Sit down,” so I sat down. He said, “I’ll feed you, but don’t go to sleep when I feed you, you’ve got lots of work to do.” I told him “Okay”.

	O:	So it was better that he took you home at night?







H:

Yeah, I didn’t live too far from him. Right by down on old Masonic Street which is called 4th avenue now, where all them apartments are down there. It was right across from the old Alachua General Hospital. There was a drive-in restaurant in

there.

O:

Let’s jump ahead a little bit. You get out of school in 1943?

H:

No, I went in the service in 1943.

O:

Well did you continue going to school after you were thirteen?

H:

Yeah.

O:

You did? So when did you finish going to school?

H:

I had to go to school until I was in sixth grade.

O:

So sixth grade that was it?

H:

Yeah.

O:

So by thirteen you were already done with school. Is that correct?

H:

Just about it.

O:

And that’s when you went to work.

H:

I still worked before I was done with school.

O:

Let’s go ahead to the service. 1943 you went in the Navy?

H:

I was drafted. They drafted from seventeen to forty-three.

O:

You weren’t surprised I’m sure when you got drafted.





	H:	No. Lots of my friends got drafted, and had already got killed.



	O:	Now, were you surprised that it was the Navy you got drafted into?



	H:	I didn’t know where I was going. I got drafted and I went from Gainesville to Camp Blanding. I stayed in Camp Blanding two weeks, and when I went a got drafted, I weighed around one hundred thirty-two pounds, so they told me I wasn’t heavy enough for the army. They didn’t know what the hell they was gonna do with me. But they sure wasn’t going to send me back home. I stayed at Camp Blanding two weeks, and the manager said “Everyone gots to fall out this morning, twice, because the Navy and the Marines and the Coast guard is coming out here.” And they got a list with all the people for the Navy, the Marines and the Coast Guard. So when they came out I seen the Navy ships. I didn’t want to go to the Navy. I seen the Navy ships, and three-four of my best friends, had reeled up there. They got killed. So when they came all out that morning, I went and got on the last line before you get on the back line, the second line to the last, because I didn’t wanna go to the Navy. I couldn’t swim. So we all fell out in line that morning, the people that came out there, the marines, the navy, and the coast guard, would all go hanging around them and all that stuff. I kept ducking down every time I see one get close to me. So when they come down the line all along I couldn’t go no further. So imagine, Shorty said “You ducking me?” “No I’m not ducking you.” He said “step out. You’ll make good slug marine bait.” So they took six of us at the line I was in, and told us “You go up across and stand up right there”. When I got up there it was about twenty of us standing. So they took some of us down to the post office, and took a physical. And then





some of us took a Black place up on Acity Street to eat. And so we had to back before four-thirty, four-thirty we were all on a train to going to San Diego.

	O:	Navy Base.



	H:	Yeah.



	O:	What was the basic training like out there? H:	I didn’t get no basic training.

	O:	You didn’t?



	H:	I got it that afternoon, took three days and two nights to get to San Diego from Jacksonville on a Smokey Joe train. I got there that afternoon we reported to the Mass bomb check. Got up the next morning and we reported--a man who wanted to know could swim. “Everybody that can’t swim fall out.” So it was four of us fell out. He took us down to the swimming pool. I was there about ten minutes I guess, and they called my name to come back to the mass bomb check. So I went to the mass bomb check and they told me to go get my sea bag and come back up there. I went to get my sea bag and they took me and two White fellas down there and put us all on the train and set us to Oakland. We went out to the base in Oakland and reported out there. The man told us to stick around. “Don’t go nowhere. We’ll call your name in a few minutes.” And we did, and he came out and he asked us, “Have y’all had a leave? I told him no. He said “Y’all haven’t had no leave?” “What kind of leave?” He said “After you finish boot camp you go back home, stay there 15 days. Then you have no boot camp. “Y’all didn’t have no boot training?” Said “No, just got here last night.” He said “You know where





y’all going?” “No, I don’t know where I’m going. I know I’m in the Navy.” And he laughed. He said “Okay. Don’t worry buddy you in good hands.” About an hour after that they put us all on a boat and the next thing I know we were going through under the Golden Gate Bridge. And I seen all them ships and I start crying. Because I know I ain’t never gonna get back home to see my people. My momma and daddy. I thought about the friends of mine that had left and didn’t come back. I said if “I get on a ship I’m going overseas and I ain’t gon’ never see none of my family no more.” And they put me on the battleship named Mississippi. I went on board the Mississippi and met the commander. We had to stand on Parade Deck for about an hour. And he said “Any y’all had your leave?” and I told him “No I hadn’t had no leave. He said “Okay.” Then he called somebody to come pick me up, take me down in the ship to the S compartment, that’s the name, the S compartment. And I went down there. He introduced me to everybody down there. Then a big ol’ guy come out and he told me he was the steward. And he had my orders that I was a cook. He asked what could I cook, and I told him I was a short order cook, “I make sandwiches and stuff.” He said “Well, you’re in the wrong Goddamn place talking about making sandwiches, you go out and cook won’t you?” Then he said “The cooks will come down tonight and I’ll introduce you to them from the galley; that’s where you’ll be going.”

	O:	So he made a cook out of you?



	H:	Yeah. And nine o’clock that night I was on my way to Pearl Harbor. O:	On the USS Mississippi?





	H:	Yeah. And I didn’t get no leave or nothing. We were a bunch of guys in Pearl Harbor for five days-

	O:	Did you learn to cook?



	H:	Oh I could cook a little bit before.



	O:	Did they teach you? The way they wanted you to?



	H:	Yeah but I was cooking for a restaurant when I got drafted. O:	Right. So you got to Pearl Harbor…

	H:	We got to Pearl Harbor, they gave us one day leave in Hawaii, and we took three days to take our supplies and when them three days up, the fourth day, the captain called us all on deck. And he told us, “Young ones, you are now in the United States Navy, you have tasks for three with admiral Chester Nimitz. He is the admiral. I’m your captain, Captain JW Red”--[Phone rings]

	O:	We’re resuming again the recording with Elmer Henry.



	H:	He said “I’m your captain.” He said, “Young ones, you’re in the United States Navy. We didn’t come here to play ball. We in a war, and we going to war. We are on the-- captain- Admiral Nimitz and he is our admiral over thirty-three. He says, “We ain’t going out there to play. When we pull out of this harbor we headed to the Marshall Islands.” He said, “The Mississippi, the Idaho, and the Mexico are the three battleships in the fleet. He says “I can’t tell you how many destroyers it is. I can’t tell you how many aircraft there’s gonna be. I can’t tell you





how many cruisers there’s gonna be. But it’s gonna be a big fleet. We going to war, we going to fight. We ain’t going to play.”

	O:	How’d you feel?



	H:	I was scared. He said, “You’re human beings just like I am. He said “When you hear that bell ring, all hands at GQ. Everybody gonna know your station.

Everybody report to GQ on the double, you know your station.” He said “Young ones, you in war, and [inaudible at 33:50]”

	O:	What was your station?



	H:	My station was on the third deck. Setting up powder. Broadside 16-inch Broadside.

	O:	Sounds pretty dangerous



	H:	It was dangerous. The big ol’ bag of powder like that, big around as a watermelon, about that long.

	O:	Now how long did it take from that point to actually see action? H:	Bout a day and a half,

	O:	What happened?



	H:	They got the Kamikazes [inaudible at 34:32] O:	Who did I’m sorry? Kamikazes?

	H:	Yeah.



	O:	So this was 1943 or 1944?





	H:	1943.



	O:	Tell me about that, the kamikazes?



	H:	They started shooting at us and they shot down a couple of planes, since battleships carried two fighter planes on each ship. Sea plane. But three were about three and four aircraft carriers in the same fleet, [inaudible 35:25] And I think it was three cruisers, destroyers, and destroyer’s escort, and then another [inaudible 34:35] bieker boats. But anyway, we stayed down there a day and a half, we bombarded the Marshall Islands. We bombarded every island in the pacific. We didn’t miss any of them. Every one of them in the Pacific, the Mississippi bombarded. [Inaudible 36:12] Every island in the Pacific we bombarded. When the war was over we went to the ceremony and we were there for the ceremony. I never did get back home until the war was over. I said “Oh lord I’ve made it. I’m going home to see my momma and daddy.”

	O:	Well, let me-



	H:	And I had enough force to get out. O:	When did you get out?

	H:	I got out the 7th of December, at four o’clock. O:	1945?

	H:	1945.



	O:	So that was a big day, you remember that so clearly?





	H:	It was. Captain tried to get me to re-up and go in in Annapolis, Maryland and be his cook, I told him I would later on but I know damn well I wasn’t going back in the navy.

O:  Before I ask you about the combat and the kamikazes again, you talked about living in Gainesville, how rough it was at the time. When you were in the Navy, was it like?

H:  It was tough. When I went in the Navy the only thing a Black country could do was cook, and wait on the White officers.

O:   Except when there were general quarters.



	H:	Except when there was general quarters. They waited on the officers, they made up their beds, and they shined their shoes, took their laundry to the laundry they had on the ship…

	O:	How were you treated?



	H:	We was treated pretty good by some of them. Some of them was nasty. I had a friend of mine from Louis Island and he told me “I can’t take this. I’m gonna get out the Navy some kinda way. That’s all I can do in the navy. The only way I know to get out the Navy is get a BCD.”

	O:	Which is?



	H:	“Bad Conduct Discharge.” O:	Did he?





H:   He drawn up a couple boys on the ship and they put him in the brig for ten days the first time, on piss and [inaudible 39:18]. He stood there. They asked him “Do you want to get out the brig?” and he “Hell no, I don’t wanna get out no brig.”

O:  So he’d rather stay in the Brig then put up with what he had up with being in the Navy?

	H:	Yeah. So I [inaudible 39:38] put it up over the blower, [inaudible 39:43] nights that they take him up to take a shower. And they took him for three days and a marine was standing on the outside telling them to get to washing the butt and using the bathroom and all that. And he did the assignments, and-

	O:	That would have been bad if you had gotten caught, right?



	H:	Yeah he got in with another guy he got out, they put him back in the brig, and he made them say the day and he got out. So, he used to call me “Little man”

	O:	A what?



	H:	A little man, that’s what he used to call me. O:	What’s that mean?

	H:	That’s the name he used to call me cause I was so small. O:	Oh, okay.

	H:	All of them used to call me “Little man”. And he got out the last time he told me, he said “Henry, you know what…” And I said “Man came around to call me by my name.” He said “Yeah but it’s all cause I’m fixing to leave you”. I said “You’re fixing to leave me?” and he said “Yeah. I’m gonna be off this [inaudible 41:08]





day after tomorrow. I said “How are you gonna get off here?” and he said “I’m not gonna tell you”.

	O:	Let’s go back now to the combat situation, I know we’re kinda jumping around but, when the kamikazes attacked, what was that like?

	H:	If I had round goin GQ, get on the battle stations, and you didn’t come up from down there.

	O:	Did you get hit? Did the ship get hit? H:	Yeah.

	O:	It did?



	H:	The ship got hit and one of the gun tears blew up and killed sixteen sailors; and that’s when I know they’d said a lie that when you got killed they put you in a refrigerator and keep you and send you back home. That’s when I know they was lying. Probably more got killed that day, we buried their asses that night at sea.

	O:	At sea. So they’d promise they’d- H:	That they’d be in them caskets.

	O:	They promised they would send you back home if you died. H:	Yeah that’s what they said, they’d tell your family-

	O:	But they buried you-



	H:	You’d see boxes but they wouldn’t let you open them, wouldn’t let you open that casket. That’s why they had them marine guards to guard them caskets. The





undertaker probably couldn’t open. They were sealed. Course nothing would be in there, they’d buried you at sea. What’d they’d do. They’d take a [inaudible 42:58] and put two five inch [inaudible 42:58] and their feet and sew you up in that cabin and they’d take one of those picnic tables and take it on the back of the ship and everybody go back to the funeral. And they’d put you on that dining room table and the chaplain preach a little bit, say a few words, and wave his hands. I said may God have mercy on your souls. And they give you the Five Gun Salute. And they haul up you off of that table and slide your ass right off into the end of that fanfare, and keep going.

	O:	Mmhm.



	H:	They don’t send nobody back. O:	Right.

	H:	That’s when I founded out.



O:  So how many times did you get attacked by kamikazes? H:  Oh my God-

O:  More than once? H:  More than once! O:   More than once?

	H:	I was in the battle on every island in the Pacific.





	O:	And what were you doing during those battles? You were pushing up the powder?

	H:	Ammunition.



	O:	Right. What was it like in there?



	H:	It was hot as hell down there. You’d be sweating down there and come out knee deep.

	O:	Mhm. Trying to push up the ammo, right? H:	Trying to push up- you better get it up there!

	O:	Right. Now how many guys were down there with you? H:	There were twenty-two of us.

	O:	What was it like? The noise? A lot of noise?



	H:	Oh yeah, you was in the ship. When they fired it come out at the water and be shaking on and on.

	O:	What was the longest action you had? An hour? Two hours?



	H:	No, man. Not enough. The Gilbert Island and- it was two islands. I’ll tell you the other two... We were dying an hour over three days.

	O:	Is that right?



	H:	Yeah we run out of food we had nothing but spam, and that’s why I don’t eat spam today.





	O:	You’ve had your fill of spam, right?



H:  Yeah we had no food, we had fried spam sandwich, we had spam every kind of way you could eat spam. We run out of spam, and then we had some- oh what you called them boxes- and then we ate them up. We were out of food for about a little over two weeks.

	O:	They couldn’t resupply you right? H:	No, couldn’t get no supplies.

	O:	Now what about ammo? Did you run out of ammo? H:	No the ammunition ship-

	O:	That was my problem- the ammunition.



H:  Yeah you see you have lost of ammunition down in the bottom so you don’t know the ships-

	O:	Okay you were down to K rations, is that what you were down through?



	H:	The K rations yeah. That damn cheese, yep. When you go down from that corner deck, you go about five decks down up under there, some of them deeper than that, especially the aircraft carrier. But they got all that gasoline and stuff down in there. I got a grandson on one now.

	O:	On an aircraft carrier?



	H:	He been in the Navy twelve to thirteen years now. He’s Chief Petty Officer. See when I was in the Navy you couldn’t get them ranks.







O:

Okay, let me ask you, I’ve done a little research on the USS Mississippi before I



came over to your home, and I see-

H:

Decommissioned it.

O:

Well not only that, right after the war was over it went into the Tokyo Bay-

H: `

Yeah I was on it.

O:

You were on that?

H:

Yeah.

O:

Tell me about that. What did you see, what did you feel? When you actually saw



Japan and they had surrendered?

H:

I felt good. We had two days leave after that.

O:

So you went on shore?

H:

Yeah.

O:

What was that like?

H:

I couldn’t understand what they were talking about. But I know they were people,



and-

O:

How’d they treat you?

H:

They would just buy on, and then uh- I was at the ceremony.

O:

The surrender.

H:

Yeah, the surrender ceremony.





	O:	Did you witness the ceremony? H:	Yeah I was on the quarter deck.

	O:	Tell me about it, what did you see?



	H:	They had a big meeting of Japanese Prime Ministers on in there. And Admiral Bill Halsey from task force 38, he took over the third fleet and he told you better not stop till he comes to Japan and he ride that white horse.

	O:	Did you see McArthur?



	H:	Oh yeah, and Leyte. We bombarded Leyte-



	O:	But did you see?- I’m talking about the surrender ceremony.



	H:	Yeah. I was there at Leyte Gulf. I was there when they raised the flag. O:	How did it feel?

	H:	Felt good.



	O:	Did you feel like, “Now, I think I’m gonna see home again?”



	H:	No. When we went in the Philippines the war wasn’t- never did I think about it being over.

	O:	No, no, I was talking about Tokyo Bay, when the war was over?



	H:	I was just thinking about getting home till we was getting sorted in when the ceremony was over.

	O:	But when you were witnessing the surrender ceremony-







H:

Yeah we all was on the quarter deck. They had about four-five ships-

O:

But were you thinking about at the time, “I’m going home. I actually made it. I’m



gonna make it.”

H:

Yeah.

O:

Feel good?

H:

I was happy.

O:

I’m sure. I know you had a lot of doubts along the way right?

H:

Yeah. But when we dropped that atomic bomb I had whole lots of doubts.

O:

When did you hear about that? The atomic bomb? And how?

H:

They announced it on the ship.

O:

How did people respond?

H:

Everybody was hollering. They announced on the ship: “The United States is



now gonna bomb Japan.”

O:

Where were at the time on the ship? I mean in the Pacific-

H:

In the Pacific.

O:

Were you headed towards-

H:

I spent all my time in the Pacific.

O:

Right. Were you headed towards Japan, did you know that? Did you know where



you were going?





	H:	Yeah.



	O:	Okay.



H:  You always know where you going. O:  Where were you going at the time? H:   What’s the name of that place?

O:  You were going to another Island? H:  Yeah.

	O:	Okay.



H:  The Mississippi, the Idaho, and the New Mexico, all of us were there. All them ships was there. The North Carolina and the South Carolina, there were battle cruisers. There were battleships too.

O:  Right. Okay now let me ask you, tell me about when you went home. Your ship, after the war, it came back probably to Pearl Harbor again?

H:   No. It came straight to New Orleans.



O:   Is that right. You went through the Panama Canal?



	H:	Yeah. We went straight to New Orleans. And we got in there that night and they gave us leave again that night. I just got off and asked two colored Black people there where the Black people hang out at. They said “Down there on Round Park Street”. Say you have to catch the trolley. We started getting on the trolley and





the man told us we couldn’t get on the trolley, we had to get on the back of the trolley.

	O:	And you had your uniform on?



	H:	Yeah. Then one guy said “We’ve been overseas about three years and we just got in here tonight, and you gon’ tell us we gotta go back there, where y’all got four or five goddamn seats to sit on? And we just been over there this whole time?” Man said “If you wanna ride that’s where gonna ride at.” So one of the guys from St. Louis and he reached up and snatched the sign from the trolley that said “colored in the back” and throwed it out the door. And he told the man he said “Goddamnit you gonna carry us near around Park Street. Where you go?” He said “I go straight down Canal Street.” He said “How far around Bar Street around Canal Street?” He said “I cross around Park Street. When you get around Park Street you better holler, cause you gotta pull up mad and Black-ass niggers. And crank it up right now.” And the man said [inaudible 54:05] he said “We ain’t gonna hurt you. You see that big ol’ ship down there, that’s where we got off on. [Inaudible 54:16]for bout three years. And y’all gon hand us some shit like this?” He said “I’ll let you know when we get to Round Park Street.” And when we get to Round Park Street he stopped and he said “This is Round Park Street, just go straight down this street here.”

	O:	He was White?



	H:	Yeah. He was White.





	O:	Okay. That’s a great story, because before you went in the military, before you went in the Navy, you told me about life in Gainesville. Could you ever have imagined being in a situation like that?

	H:	Where I come out?



	O:	Wait no, no. When you would actually start to stand up and say “no, I’m not gonna take this anymore?

	H:	I know I knew it was gonna happen. O:	You did.

	H:	Yeah but I didn’t know how long it was gonna happen before.



	O:	Right, but certainly, the war made that process come quicker, you think? H:	I think when Kennedy got in there.

	O:	Okay, I understand, but-



	H:	Kennedy changed a lot of things.



	O:	But after the war, here you guys were gone for three years from your country, fought for your country-

	H:	Those people didn’t give a damn about that. O:	Yeah but when you came back-

	H:	It wasn’t no different.



	O:	It was no different, but you pushed back, right?





	H:	It wasn’t no different, I was home in Gainesville after service. Before I could even go to a theater downtown in Gainesville.

	O:	Right. But what I’m saying is the situation, they story you were telling about New Orleans, when they told you couldn’t be on that trolley-

	H:	Yeah.



	O:	And somebody started to argue with him and threw the sign out the window; that never would’ve happened before the war, right?

	H:	No! No that wouldn’t happen before the war. O:	That’s right. You just couldn’t take it anymore.

	H:	The MPs come down there looking for us, had a loudspeaker wanted to know who was down there on Round park street off of the Mississippi.

	O:	So someone reported you?



	H:	Yeah somebody told that we got on the trolley and raised hell. O:	Anything ever come of it though?

	H:	He had to report it cause he didn’t stop after we got on. That man told them that.



He didn’t stop till he got to Canal Street.



	O:	Nothing ever came of it, right? You got where you wanted to go?



	H:	Yeah we got where we wanted to go. And I stopped to… they had a little carnival there.





	O:	Let me ask you that... After you went to New Orleans you got dismissed from the Navy-

	H:	No, no. I stayed in New Orleans for about a month. And then we left New Orleans and went to Norfolk Virginia. There’s a shipyard in Norfolk, Virginia. And I got off at Norfolk and went to Jacksonville where I got discharged at.

	O:	Then you went back to Gainesville? H:	Yeah.

	O:	Was happy to be-



	H:	I caught a bus from Jacksonville to Gainesville and I still had to sit in the back of the bus.

	O:	And you had your uniform on? H:	Yeah I had my uniform on.

	O:	Mhm. And this was making you angry finally, right? H:	Oh, yeah. But I know what not do about it right then.

	O:	So when you got back to Gainesville it was life as usual? H:	Yeah.

	O:	People still treated each other same way? Is that correct?



	H:	Yeah the White folks was. Somehow it was a little bit more friendly to you before you go into a theater or restaurant or something like that. You couldn’t go. They had a theater up there on High Springs but you had to go upstairs. You couldn’t





come downstairs and mix with the White folk. And there was White men in the Drive-in Theater out there in Gainesville on the Hawthorne road, and everybody could go in there then. But you couldn’t go to them White theaters-

	O:	Okay let me-



	H:	But you got the theater down on 5th avenue, Carl Lankin Theater, for the Black people.

	O:	Well let me ask you, when you look back upon your service, your military service, in that time in your life, those two-three years you were in. Are you glad you had that opportunity, or you wish you hadn’t done it?

	H:	I’m glad I went.



	O:	Why?



	H:	Because I fought for my country. I’m glad I went. I had two brothers that went. O:	They come back?

	H:	Yeah.



	O:	That made you…proud?



	H:	Made me proud! Made me feel good! I had on a uniform. I’m proud of the uniform I served in. I’m proud of serving my country. I can say it’s my country now. I can’t say it’s completely my country, cause a lots of stuff still going on, but it’s better than it was. I can go more places, but some places right now even in Gainesville you can’t go.





	O:	Is that right?



	H:	Yeah.



	O:	I didn’t know that.



H:   It’s some people that you can go in there, but you’re not gonna be treated right. O:  Okay I understand that.

H:  So why go in there? You go where you spend your money, get treated right, that’s where you go. Because my money the same color of your money and anybody else’s money. If you can’t treat me right, you don’t need my money.

	O:	Right. When you look back on that whole situation, the whole racial aspect, well you can believe by all the changes that have occurred… are you surprised, I’m sure you’re happy, you’re glad for it.

	H:	I’m glad for my children. O:	For your children.

	H:	My children cause they didn’t come up like I came up. O:	Do they understand?

	H:	I told my children how I came up and how I lived. Lots of time I didn’t’ nothing but a serving of bread and went to bed. That’s all my mother and father could afford to give me.

	O:	Well a lot of times when children hear stories from their parents it’s like “Yeah right”.





	H:	And my kids said, “What?” You serving bread? And I asked some of my kids which is my neighbor house [inaudible 1:01:13], and they were talking bout how they was eating at home. I told them I said “I used to eat like that. I can’t believe that.” I said “Well I did”.

	O:	And of course they have children too, right? H:	Yeah my children have children.

	O:	Have they heard some of these stories? H:	Yeah. But you know what I did?

	O:	What’s that?



	H:	I cooked a meal. That’s what my daughter told her children was eating. I cooked the same meal when they come home from school. I had cooked that meal. “You done cook?” I said “Yeah. You come wash up and sit down.” I cooked that same food and put in on my dining room table. My daughter, “What is this?” I said “Your dinner.” “Our dinner!” Then she told her brother, “That’s the same thing Mr. Jeff and all them had to eat.” They all looked at me. I said “Say the blessing, bless the food. Let’s eat.” I sit right down there with them and I start eating. I told them, “You know why I cooked this meal? To let you all know that you don’t talk about other people, what they got to eat, cause you eating better than they did.

Maybe they eat just like my momma and daddy would. They couldn’t do no better, but they had something to eat in they stomach. They wasn’t going to bed hungry, they had something to eat. This is what you gon eat tonight. I didn’t say nothing about [inaudible 1:04:32] I gon start when y’all start.”





	O:	So that was a good lesson for them?



	H:	Yeah. So one of my daughters, she called herself slicks see; she got her spoon and dump it in her lap. But I was watching. The boy didn’t say nothing, it taste pretty good. I said “Maybe I seasoned it better. Ain’t nothing wrong with that. You can cook some more of that.” My daughter got up, “I got to go to the bathroom”. I said “Yeah you go to the bathroom, before you go to the bathroom you gon eat all that food you got in your lap. So you might as well dump it on the table.”

	O:	Don’t waste any food.



	H:	“And sit down there and eat it, so you know how I feel.” So when my wife got home she told her mother, “Guess what? You know what I tell you about Ms. Jeffro over there?” She said “Yeah”. “Papa cooked that today and made us eat it. She said “He did?” “Yeah!” My wife got to me and said “You cook that meal and made them children eat it?” I said “Yeah”…She said “Why”? I said cause I wanted them to know how when people don’t have… they can eat the same thing they had to eat, they didn’t have nothing else to eat. So I wanted them to know, just like I told them, how I came up, and they laughed and said “I couldn’t eat that”. “I couldn’t drink no syrup sweet or we have Kool-Aid all the time. You see we got Kool-Aid once a month. [Laughter].

	O:	Okay, I ‘m gonna have to stop at this particular point. And I wanna thank you because you gave great insight into what it was like to grow up here in Gainesville in the [19]20s, [19]30s, and [19]40s, and also what life was like the United States Navy during WWII, and your service.





	H:	You know what, let me tell you this, you’ve ever been to Mac’s Drive Thru on 10th Street? Hamburger?

	O:	No.



	H:	His daddy was the man I worked for. I had never seen the Atlantic Ocean. I’d never seen the blue pond down there, big and long down there.

	O:	Well I’ll tell you what, at this point, let me just cut the recording off and the interview, and we can chat further, okay? Thank you.

[End of interview]



		Transcribed by:	Rachel Hujsa,	January 23, 2019 Audit-Edited by:	Sandra Romero	June 27, 2019