AAHP 674; Bickham; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 674 Barry Bickham 7-6-2019 Interviewed by Ryan Morini on July 6, 2019 23 Pages

Abstract:

Keywords: [African American History; Pensacola, Florida; environmental racism]



AAHP 674

Interviewee: Barry Bickham Interviewer: Ryan Morini Date: July 6, 2019



	M:	This is Ryan Morin with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. It’s July 6th, 2019, and I’m here in the Wedgewood Community Center in Pensacola with Mr. Barry Bickham. So, thank you for joining me today.

	B:	Well you’re welcome, it’s a pleasure. A little about me before I start talking about some of the stuff that I brought with me, I am the founding president of the Wedgewood-Rolling Hills Homeowners Association. Many years ago, I started this project back here, making our community— it was starting to deteriorate. So I got involved as a youngster with our Board and County Commissioners, and tried to get our streets and stuff repaved, and we had a lot of pot holes in the road, and from there we started the homeowner association. And as a result of that homeowners’ association, we incorporated our sister neighborhood, which is the Rolling Hills community, which is a little north of us to the left from here, and it became the Wedgewood-Rolling Hills Homeowners Association. And our job there was to bring the community together and make the community better, in other words, we would always vividly try to make our community look better, we tried to get our share of the tax dollars for capital improvements in our community, we did so. Here I have a picture of a sign that I was standing next to when we first approached the Board of County Commissioners for a community center recreation park. It was a dream of mine, and never thought it would come to fruition, but behind this 10.5 million dollar building here is the actual start of our Wedgewood Community Park. So we have some documents showing the implementation of our program when it was first starting to be built in the





community. And I just brought a few things so you guys could see a little bit of the history of when it first started, in terms of getting this park in our community. Cause I’ve seen their’s and our children had nothing, and us being the first African American community that took to the next level in terms of housing and improvements and conditions, and we even had a senior high school here, which has been torn down recently. This community was built to bring the community up to the next level in terms of economic standards. And my family moved out here, it was what it is now, over the years just started to deteriorate, so I got involved, and as a result of that, they’ve moved from the community to park, to now we have a 10.5 million dollar community center here for our residents here in the Wedgewood community.

	M:	And you mentioned your family moved. Where did your family move here from?



	B:	We were originally living in Cantonment, Florida, which is North of here, basically was like in the country area, and my parents moved us down here for better living conditions. Where we were living at was kinda cramped, and we came up here and got a three-bedroom home. So anyway, it was just improved living conditions, and like I say, I grew up here, knew a lot of the neighbors here, in fact, two of them just walked out of here, I know them real well and they know me. So back in the day we just didn’t have any one taking the bull by the horn and saying “Hey, let’s make some improvements in our community.” And so after we got involved with our homeowners association, we start having problems with the drug sales and stuff out in our community. So I started a program called the Wedgewood Rolling-Hills Drug Watch Patrol. And that’s where men in our





community, we became eyes and ears for law enforcement. And we worked very diligently with our sheriff department, local Escambia County Sheriff Department, trying to be the eyes and ears in case we saw something going on in our neighborhood. We basically sat back and watched, and as a result of that— I don’t think I brought that picture with me— we formed an organization. We was given a patrol car. Old car from the sheriff department. We painted it, had our name put on the side of it, and some corporate sponsors got involved, and helped us with some finances. We took the program over to the state level, in the Wedgewood community. We worked very close with Governor Bob Martinez, when he was our governor. I travelled to state, and we’ve got other programs in other communities, neighborhood, that was having these kinda issues. Basically, we became the neighborhood watch group. That’s how we started. But it became the Wedgewood-Rolling Hills Drug Watch Patrol. So it’s a lot of history here in terms of taking it just from Wedgewood over throughout the state.

	M:	It sounds that way, yeah. And when did you start that program?



	B:	This was started about 1975, [19]76. That’s when I got involved. There was nothing going on here in terms of a community organization. There was nothing going on in terms of bringing the community together for annual events, and when we first got started, we started what we called the Wedgewood-Rolling Hills Homeowners Association Annual June Festival. I don’t think I have pictures of the first one, but I have some documentation and some articles from our second annual, and it became an annual thing every year in June, we invited the entire Pensacola community to come out. We did PSAs, public service





announcements, over the WBOP radio station. We got churches and civic organizations involved, and they came out in droves. And we had events on top of events, organizations came out and did various things. They sold dinners, we had politicians, like former Escambia County Sheriff, Vince Seely. These guys came out and they talked to the people at the political rallies. There was singing, it was just a fun-filled day in the Wedgewood community. And this was something that everybody looked forward to every year. And it brought out the masses the community.

	M:	It looks that way. A lot of people in these pictures. Can I ask just to backtrack a little? When did your family move here? Was that—?

	B:	My family moved here around 1969, [19]70. M:	And how old were you then?

	B:	I was probably my nephew’s age back then. I know, I can recall vividly around nine, maybe ten.

	M:	So what was Wedgewood like? What was your first impression? What was Wedgewood when you moved here?

	B:	From coming from the country, coming to this, it was like, “Wow, we live like the Jefferson’s, we can move right on up!” It was strange. We went out there picking corn and stuff like that in the country, but when we got here, we had paved streets and flushing toilets. Where I came from, the toilet was an outhouse, and you had to go out back. It was a transition, school’s right here within walking distance, so it was kinda fun.





	M:	I can imagine. I was told in the last interview that people could fish in the ponds and things around here?

	B:	Back in the days, yes. I got a little discouraged about it, because there was nothing that I could personally do but be the voice of the community, and let our frustration be known to our Board of County commissioners, concerning some landfills that wanted to do some CD, construction and debris. Landfills here in our area, and we would adamantly oppose that. But it did come to fruition, and it’s still a pain in our neck now. It’s an environmental issue now. So, we still fighting that battle, but like I said, after my tenure, start out with the association, I move to bigger and better things. But I never left my root because this is still my hometown, this is still my community, Wedgewood.

	M:	And when they were building, so there was some notice that they were going to build the landfills, or there was some—?

	B:	Yes, there were talk of it. I’m gonna quote a couple of names. Commissioner Gerald Willard. He was our County Commissioner, back when I first started with Wedgewood Homeowner’s Association. And we voiced out concerns and complaints, and now in the long term, this was gonna get bigger than what he had even imagine. I almost got ran over by a dump truck trying to tell them that we didn’t want them in our community, tearing up our streets and stuff. We just got our streets paved, and we didn’t want you coming back here, bringing all this dust and crap and running down our streets creating havoc for our children or people around our community. Commissioner Willie turned over in his office as commissioner. Commissioner Willie Jay Junior became our Board of County





Commissioner. Willie was very, very instrumental in helping us to take it to the next level, with getting our association up and running, getting our park started, finding the money in the budget to create such a thing. And that was a big thing because we didn’t have parks in the African American community back in those days. So, it was very important that we was the trailblazer, we’re the one that started this. And as a result, there are other communities here in Pensacola that have these community centers like we have here, as a result of the spin-off in Wedgewood. Now, the city had some, but we talking about the county, and we have two facet government, sitting here in county government, so in the county, we had the first big park. And like I say, years later, Commissioner Marie Young became our commissioner, and she was very supportive and active, and a long with the other activists in the community, and today we sit in this nice air conditioned 10.5 million dollar community center.

	M:	And this is a very nice facility. I mean the building and the grounds and whole – it’s very nice. Can I ask, when you said you almost got run over by a dump truck, was that literally, it was just driving at you?

	B:	We had protested that we didn’t want them in our community, and they didn’t care. They could care less. And me being the leader of the group, I basically said, “Hey, we don’t want you in our neighborhood. You need to stop, turn this thing around,” and they proceeded on. And it’s like, if you don’t get out the way we gonna run over you.

	M:	Wow.





	R:	What rationale did they give for why the wanted the landfill here, as opposed to somewhere else?

	B:	They never did give us— other than the fact that there was available property, and they figured they would not be an environment issue for us, not knowing the long term effects, and we knew as a community, that you were gonna take it from the C and D, which is Commercial Debris, basically bricks and mortar and stuff like that, that they build houses with, and they took it to the next level. I also believe— they can’t document this, but I believe that during our Gulf Coast BP oil spill back in 2010. I was very active in working with the BP oil spill. A lot of the contaminants they were removed from the city, I mean from the ocean, and the land were dumped out there in that land fill. Because they had to have that oil and those bags and stuff hauled off, and that time, our landfill wasn’t allowed to come in. So we believe a lot of that’s buried over there in that landfill. So, as a result now, you see some of our seniors, I’m sure they talked about the landfills, it’s been on the news a lot, about the environmental hazard— this is causing people to get sick out here. And I had thought serious about coming back, stepping up the paint and being a voice again, and saying “We gonna get this nailed down.” Our County commissioner now, Commissioner Lumon May, who is a chairman our Board of County Commissioners, is very actively involved with the citizens here in our community, to get this thing under wraps. There’s been a lot of tight rope from environmental standpoint, from our county environmental people, making sure that they follow protocol, but yet it’s still an eyesore, and it’s still a nuisance, and we’re still breathing the toxic chemicals that’s coming off of





that. And me being an environmental guy, and also a safety officer, I know the effects of we’re breathing this stuff without proper mask or respirators, and how it can affect people with health issues, especially our seniors out here.

	M:	Can I ask when you started noticing that impact on people? Or the impacts of the landfills?

	B:	I would say probably early [19]80s – mid [19]80s it started. And like I said, it just started to skyrocket. They didn’t respect the community, they just came through here with dump trucks and loads of stuff through our community. We just said, well, “Why couldn’t you just bypass this and maybe take it in another direction? Why you wanna deteriorate our community and bring this hazard to our community?” There’s also a safety concern. Because like I said, I work very closely with Commissioner Junior, we have speed humps out here on these roads, and as a result I say, “We gotta have these speed bumps, because these vehicles, especially these dump trucks, they’re coming in here like it’s nothing.

They’re disrespecting the twenty-five mile speed limit by coming in here with those heavy trucks, and they don’t break as quick as an automobile will. And so we got those installed through a grant, and that made it a little bit better. But still, they were just coming down the main street right here in front of the park, going to the dump. It’s like they didn’t give a crap, and I don’t want to get off onto the White-Black thing, but adjacent to the landfill is a very prominent community called Marcus Pointe, got a golf course and everything over there. Country club- like living. Now, they want to take this situation to that direction, so why come here? You know what I’m saying? So, because the economic situation here was





not like how it was on Marcus Pointe, they had attorneys over there, they had people who could fight better. We was just a voice, we could go down there and raise a whole bunch of baloney at the county commission, and for the most part it’s just talk. Nothing got done about it, because it’s still here today.

	M:	Yeah. Can I ask you, how did you get started in activism overall? You’ve talked about getting the Homeowners Association started. Were there mentors, or was it your family, or were there people you were kind of learning from?

	B:	Well, I was very active in school. SGA, and I was involved with Toastmasters. I always felt that I had a gift to speak, and somebody need to step up and speak. And as a result I just started learning. I just put out the flowers and said, “Hey we’re gonna start a community association, we’re gonna have a meeting at the school, and met with the principal.” They gave us a room to meet in the afternoon, and that was how it started. I just got tired of driving my personal car down roads that I had to [imitates sound of road] just to get from A to B because of the potholes. And I’ve learned a lot of about the tax dollars and how they can be used to better the community, and I just work very closely with the county commissioners. From that it just started. It was a flame started with a flicker, and here still going today. So it’s like my personal dream, like Martin Luther King had. And I’m still here to see that the dream went from where it was to where it is now, which is a good feeling.

	M:	I would imagine that. So you were in high school when you started when you started the association?





	B:	Oh yeah.



	M:	That’s, wow. Who were the first members? Did everyone kinda join? One of them just left out of here. This is Roberta Lawrence. She was one of our first members. We create things like yard of the week. We had a beautiful sign that, if you had the nicest yard, we’d put this sign on your yard on the week, and you’d had it all week to tell everybody you had the prettiest yard in the community. Again, it was to try to improve the condition of the community, try to make sure that everybody stayed within our guidelines about how we wanna keep our community, how we wanna keep things looking. So that we were to showcase of the Black community back in those days. So when people came into our neighborhood, they said, “Wow, looks nice. What manicured yards, no cars out front, broken down.” If so, they had to be in back, or get rid of them altogether, you know what I’m saying.

And so, it was just a proud time back then for the community. Banded together to make the community better. That’s why I wanted these boys here to come in and sit, because they needed to hear things like this, cause they are our future generation, they are the ones that’s gonna take the metal and run with it when we’re gone. But that’s basically how it happened with me.

	M:	Well that’s impressive. What kind of vision did you have when you were starting that?

	B:	It was just a vision that— I wanted our community to be better than what it was.



The streets I think the thing that always come to my mind. We deserve better than that, and I said, “This is not cool, we got these beautiful homes out here, but these streets are raggedy. What can we do about it?” And that’s the thing that





started this association. We’re gonna get something done, and when it start to happen, “Okay, we can do better than this.” We started association, we started dues, and we raised money for various things, and we could do things if we had families that had some damage to their home through fire whatever, we helped the family. Just an assistance program. We also helped a family, death in a family needed help to bury somebody. We did all these types of thing. So we just took it from one level to the next and do what we could to make the neighbors feel safe in their own homes. And that’s why our men— we would patrol the streets at night, we would ride around in the car, and if some guys there was on the corners doing something they weren’t doing, they saw us coming, they left, cause we had communication with the sheriff department. Back in those days, we didn’t have that cellphone.

	B:	It was the kind you had to install in your car. You walk around with a battery pack probably as big as that watermelon on your shoulder. But the thing is— and law enforcement was very present out here, we wanted their presence, we wanted them to patrol our streets, come out here often, and we made them felt welcome. And then when we had our events out here, we invited the Sheriff Department, the fire department— everybody in the world come out here and show our kids what’s our police cars or equipment, what do they do, and speak to the kids about public safety and stuff like that. So we just had a great time with our June festivals. You can see some of the pictures back in the day. We had all things going on, and the crowd came in droves, we had thousands of people out here.

	M:	They just be coming from outside of—





	B:	Oh, they came out from outside from community, because like I said, I’m the radio giving a PSA, inviting to come to the June festival, we gon’ have gospel groups, rap groups, this that, all kind of things for the kids, stuff for the seniors. Just a fun filled day. Bring the family out, and let’s just come out and have dinner. If you guys want to come out and sell something, come on up! Your church, came out there, whatever will it be. Free market stuff, or whether it be candy apples. Whatever. Just come out and have a good time and, you guys benefit just as well as we do. But for me, I think when it first started the roads were very important to me, and once I seen that that can get done, I said we were promised, my parents were promised when we moved out here that two things they were gonna do for us. They were gonna build a school out here, and there’s gonna be a park. Well when we moved I had a Wedgewood Junior-Senior High School was already there. So, where’s the park you promised us? Where? It’s a deep subject, where is it? So I said, “Okay. We need a park for our people.” And we rallied around that. I spoke many times out at County Commissioners about, we have the property, which is right over behind this building here— there’s a road in between, on the other side, where you see the playground equipment.

We had the property. Nothing on it. Just property. I said, “We can do better than that guys. We deserve better. We were promised this.” And that’s why this particular picture here, it’s kinda neat to me because I always say, “I have a dream,” and when they put that sign up, I knew that it was in the making. There’s just something that, for me, at sixty-two years old now, I was like twenty





something back then, to see this come to where it is today and still be here. So it’s kinda neat, you know?

	M:	That really is. When did this building come into—



	B:	I don’t know exactly. I’m sure they got it up there on the plaque, there’s a wall thing. But it came about, I wanna say, probably in the [19]90s, late [19]90s.

Something like that. Early 2000s? I just can’t remember the exact date and time, but I know Commissioner Marie Young— the center is named after her because she was active and she was very involved, and she was our voice on the Board of County commissioner, and they just felt it appropriate to name it Marie K. Young Community Center. So, this is where we’re at now. And when I got the call to come out here and speak to the group, I didn’t know… Larry Williams, I don’t know if you know Larry.

	M:	No.



	B:	Larry is very active in the community now. I would say he’s maybe like the president. I’m not what position who holds now. But Larry say, “Because of your involvement back in the days when you started this, I think you’d be a good candidate to speak to the University of Florida group about the history of Wedgewood.

	M:	Actually I think I met Larry, I’m sorry. I didn’t know his last name. He was walking by, ‘cause he’s leading the event today. Yes I did meet him. I guess one question I would have is just— okay I have two questions. One is, has it been difficult to get the ears of the County commission sometimes from Wedgewood?





	B:	Back during the day, yes, it was difficult, we’ve come a long way, and for the simple reason, we did not have a representative on our Board of County Commission, until Commissioner Willie Jay Junior became the first African American commissioner to be voted in office and to serve on the board of county commission. He was our voice. He was the one that we felt that we had reached the plateau where we needed to be, that we had an ear. That we had an ear on the Board of County Commissioner. Gerald was awesome, but really became involved. And then Marie Young, and then Lumon May. So we’ve had a representative on the board, now, for a long period of time. So it’s been a lot better now than it has been.

	M:	It has been some progress, then. B:	Yes, sir.

	M:	The other question is just, what do you hope for the future of this community?



	B:	For one, I would hope that something could be done with the closing down and the removing of the landfill and covering that up so we can expand the community, whether it be our community or another community. But to enhance it. Take the pit itself, fix it up where it can be used for something better, that’s gonna be better for the community. And I don’t know what that could be because we have another properties downtown, on Palafox Street that they can’t build on because of the toxic level in the ground. And I don’t know if that would be the issue out there. So I don’t know what they could possibly do with that land. But anything is better than what they got now. Shut the pit down, and just get rid of





the environmental hazards that’s going on out there. If they covered it up, we don’t have to sit there and breathe it in at night, our young people. Cause some of them are also having issues in terms of their health issues too. So it could affect them as well, but it’s really affecting our seniors. Especially the ones that’s living right here by it.

	M:	That’s rough. I mean when did you start to notice the impact of the smell of the landfills and things like that?

	B:	I think that started happening around late [19]80s, early [19]90s is when it start smelling and stuff. And on a good day, the wind’s blowing. Because for me, I knew then it was more than just construction debris being hauled off down there. I’m in the environmental business, so I know that when we clean certain things, we dealing with mold issues, we dealing with asbestos, and so on. So I know that it had to be more. They’re probably some raw product, and that’s where I believe some of the oil spill, the oil that was collected during the BP oil spill, cause I was out there on the beach with these crews, and we was actually picking up this stuff, tar balls, putting them in these bags, and even though they were double bagging them— but they had to be hauled somewhere. And to this day nobody can say that they haven’t been, but we think they’re down there. But we don’t know. So, I would say early [19]80s, mid [19]90s is when the smell started to come, and it because very foul as we moved forward in the 2000s. People begin to smell it and it’s like, something’s not right down there. What are they throwing in that pit down there? It’s not the landfill, it’s supposed to be a C and D landfill, but we’re smelling wrong stuff.





	M:	So, there seems to be a lot of pride within Wedgewood about the Wedgewood community. What is kind of the nature of that pride, the source of that pride?

	B:	A couple things. One, we were the first African American community that was a breath of fresh air. It had potential. We had a community that was all African American. We had a high school within the community, kids could walk to school. Never had issue with buses and stuff like that. There was other commercial development around the community. It was like a bright light, and other neighborhoods wanted to be like Wedgewood. They wanted to upgrade their homes. We said all the time now, tearing old houses building new ones, and making that community better. I didn’t know much about what I’m talking about when I moved here. I just know where we moved from to where we at now, is like, “Oh my god. You can actually flush the toilet.” That was a big thing to us. We came from the— you can’t go to the bathroom at night. You held it. You was scared to go out there in the woods. In the garden. But anyway, so the thing for us was just the pride in knowing that homes were beautiful, paved roads, we didn’t have that where we came from. And a lot of the seniors out here now especially, some of them are gone, but for the most part, they were working at the naval air station, which was the pride of Pensacola, still is, and it was economically, they made better money out at the naval base, out at Armstrong Corporation, there was some corporation that they worked at. So the level of economic stability was greater, and they could afford to come out here. ‘Cause these houses here were— they called them, what is that…

	M:	The HUD.





	B:	It was not a HUD thing, but there was affordable housing, but you had to meet certain criteria to get out here. And there wasn’t no rentals, it was all you buying these home. So the people that had the money were investing out here by coming out here and buying homes, or buying property and building the home on their properties. So it was just the light— and some of the people out here that’s never gonna leave Wedgewood, they’ll die here, cause this is their roots, this is where they’ve lived all they life. Some of them are at an age now that they can’t do the things they used to could do. So that’s why they’re trying to keep things alive and moving so that others can join in and take over the leadership, and keep it going. Cause like I said, I would have never thought— I mean, from the roads, and then we started fussing about the park, and when we started seeing construction started on this, and we was excited, and we just knew that the possibilities were unlimited. We could do anything we wanted to do out here if he had a plan. And that plan was to keep the community involved, everybody let’s work together for the common good of our community, and it went from what you see here to this. I mean come on now. Our kids can actually go in the gym and shoot basketball. Back in the day, they used to play out there on that concrete court in the hot sun. And they still got a court out there I believe, but the point is, they can come in here now. That’s big. Especially for our community back in the day, when I could say, we didn’t start having a real ear until Willie Jay Junior. I was at his installation ceremony when he became first African American County Commissioner from Pensacola. At the Saenger Theater, downtown Pensacola, he was sworn in. I never forget it. Willie was like my idol. I wanted to be like





Willie. One day I wanted to run for office, you know what I’m saying? And then when I started the Wedgewood Drug Watch Patrol Program, we were fighting some evils out here. Because the boys who was supplying the drugs to the young buys who were selling it, I became a thorn in their side. So they wanted to get rid of me. And I had death threats against me. It got crazy. But we were determined to stay on the battlefield and make our community a better place. I wasn’t gonna have my parents, sitting here, scared to come outside at night or sit on their porch, because of the drug dealers. Now, the gun situation wasn’t like it is now. But mainly because, me and you, we would get out there and fight behind the house, and lights came out, we were at your momma’s house having dinner together again. We were good friends again. But we just weren’t gonna have our parents afraid, especially our seniors, afraid to come in to the house at night because of the drug sales and stuff going around our neighborhood. You wanna do that, you take that somewhere else, but you won’t do it in our community. We don’t care where you did it at, but you just didn’t do it in Wedgewood. But like I said, our car, and our men, we had shifts, we worked around the clock, we drove around. And we kept an eye on our neighbors. We didn’t have burglaries in our community. We didn’t have none of that stuff going on. It’s because we had the ear of the sheriff and we were very actively involved with the sheriff, and we got the support of the community, not just Wedgewood but the African American community, and say hey, “We need XYZ, we need this sheriff in office, he’s gonna be there for our community,” and when they got in, they did what he said he was going to do. They didn’t forget us. ‘Cause they knew that Wedgewood





was the voice of the community. And when they spoke, they spoke highly. That’s about all I can tell you. You got something else?

	M:	I can always think of things, but I think that’s— one thing I’d ask you, who else was involved in starting that association?

	B:	We had Mr. Bernie Shumo, I don’t know who’s all your panel of people that you were interviewing, but I know Bernie Shumo, Willie Junior, our Board of County Commissioner, Mr. Johnny Dennis, Mr. Joe Davenport, Mr. Alvin Aldridge, Mr. Wilbert Brooks. These are some people that were very active in our community back then. They were with us when we started this program. And some of them still here now. Like I said, I was surprised to see Ms. Lawrence when she walked out. She’s up in age, eighty-seven years old, but she’s always been the same lady. Always been there for Wedgewood. Never turned her back on Wedgewood.

	M:	It seems like a tight knit community.



	B:	It is. We’ve come a long way and some of these people they are never gonna leave here unless they’re rolled out. This is their home. They’ve invested a lot here. Like I say, back in those days, the biggest economic places to get employment here was the navy base, the Monsanto Corporation, St. Regis paper company up in Cantonment, these were the places where if you got in with those guys, you were making decent money, so you could afford to take your family from the ghetto, and bring them into something decent. And so what we was trying to do was keep the rules up, keep everything going so that we did not let our properties deteriorate.





	M:	So what advice would you have for younger people now, who want to get involved with making things happen?

	B:	Number one, keep the dream alive, keep going, don’t stop. We went from not having nothing to what we have now. Like I say, my dream was to have a community park out here for our residents. We went from a community park to a

10.5 million dollar community center. That’s where we’re at now. So, let’s get this landfill out of our community. And let’s do something better. Let’s get a better ballpark for our kids. Let’s just keep the community alive. Let’s improve on our homes, let’s take what vacant properties that’s out there, and let’s build on it. Let’s just take it to the next level. That’s all I tell you. That’s what I tried to do when I first started the program. I wanted to take it from those raggedy behind streets that we had, to getting those streets paved, where you can actually get out there and ride your bicycle, and not tear your bicycle wheels up because of the holes in the road. Or you driving your car down the road. So, when you see that opportunity, you just gotta take it to the next level.

	M:	As someone who works as an environmentalist, are you, the two ladies who were in here before were concerned about contaminants in the soil, you know whether they can go gardens and things, do you think there’s a way to clean things up, or to test properly to see if people can start to grow vegetables or things like that?

	B:	There’s an opportunity for that. Like I say, but that’s something that the people that own the property, for example, the landfill, if we can get that completely shut down and out of here, then it’d be up to our environmental code enforcement people to come in and say, “Here’s what we need to do in order to sample and





make sure that the groundwater and the soil itself is available for our people that they can use, grow proper foods, drink water,” so on and so on. Testing has gotta be done. Lot of testing’s gotta be done. And that’s something beyond these people’s out here’s scope. And then we can get that done, and we can prove to the citizens that the water’s safe, the ground is safe for you to grow a garden in your backyard, and we can even build on this property out there. That would be a task for whoever’s got to do that, because we’ve got property right down here on Palafox that once held a low income housing project called Escambia Arms, and now, that property’s just sitting there available. It’s available and there’s nothing on it, because they’re afraid to build on it because of the toxic soil that’s underneath it. The board of county commissioners now has just built a humungous jail, extended it. And they close businesses down so they had room to make this jail when they had all that property over there they could have used to make a beautiful or big jail if that’s what they wanted to do. But they’re afraid to build on that property. So it’s not gonna be an overnight thing, but that would be a challenge to the young people. Let’s get this monster taken care of and out of the way. And then let’s take it to the next level and do something with it. It just never should have happened in a community like this. In anybody’s community.

You don’t take and build and build a landfill in the middle of a community. Black or White. It’s not that the Black or White— you don’t do that in a community where you’ve got seniors and children at. This is not the place for that. That’s where we take our landfills and we go outside the county, and we get areas that’s not incorporated, so that we can do these things. But common man, that’s





common sense, bro! You know what I’m saying? I’m trying to be nice, but— [laughter]

M:  Yeah. Well, so I think. I mean I really appreciate your time today, I don’t want to take up too much of it. Do you have any final thoughts or things you would want to add to the recording.

	B:	Well, no. For me it’s been a rollercoaster because I came out here when I was my nephew’s age and I saw the condition was better and it’s like, “I like this.” And then the more I liked it the more I wanted to see it stay like it is, and then I saw that nobody was doing anything, and me being the big mouth that I am, and I say you know, and then some other friends say, “Hey, you could be the one that could get the people riled up,” and it just started. So, I would just say that it’s a blessing to be able to still be here today, and to see where we came from, and to where we’re at now. You compare apples and oranges, over there across the street, what we’ve got now? Where you saw all those wooden studs out here going up for like a little A-Frame building, that we called our little— we had bathrooms, and provisional-like? This wood. We’ve come a long way. We’ve got a beautiful park now. But that was the beginning of it, so I just hope that some of the other young people would want to do the same thing. Some out here want to do the same thing, and continue to make Wedgewood always be a community of people remember, ‘cause they were the ones that got us off the ground and say, “Hey, we can do better in our neighborhood.” But we gotta a black eye now with the landfill. And thank god we got people to fight with us outside of our





community here. They say, “Hey, we gonna do better than this. We can do better than this.” So that’s where we are.

	M:	Well, thank you very much. B:	You’re welcome.

[End of Interview]





Transcribed by:

Rachel Hujsa



Audit-Edited by:

Sandra Romero

March 5, 2020

Final-Edited by:

Sandra Romero

January 12, 2021