AAHP 180; Brown; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 180 Alethia Viola Brown African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Jessica Lancia on August 10, 2011 1 hour, 10 minutes | 38 pages



Abstract: Alethia Viola Brown grew up in Gordon Chapel, Florida, and starting in seventh grade she had to walk across the county line to attend school in Hawthorne, Florida. She describes the family farm she grew up on in considerable detail, and also shares some of her experiences in school. During World War II, she moved to Portsmouth, Virginia to work as a welder in the Naval shipyard, and she discusses both the pay discrimination she faced as a woman as well as the satisfaction she garnered from welding. After returning to Hawthorne, she started working at Sunland Training Center as a teacher for students with special needs. Mrs. Brown discusses her memories of Jim Crow segregation as well. Because Brown suffered from dementia at the time the interview was conducted, she was assisted in the interview by her sister and daughter, Cheryle B. Sommons.





[Keywords: African American History; Putnam County, Florida; Alachua County, Florida; Segregation]











































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 180

Interviewee: Alethia Viola Brown Interviewer: Jessica Lancia Date: August 10, 2011



	L:	This is Jessica Lancia. I am with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Project and we are interviewing today, Mrs. Alethia Viola Brown and we are in the Hawthorne Library and it is August 10, 2011.First of all, thank you so much for agreeing to do this interview today. Do you mind saying your whole name, spelling it, and what is your date of birth?

	B:	My name is A-L-E-T-H-I-A, Viola V-I-O-L-A, Brown, B-R-O-W-N. Alethia Viola Brown.

	L:	And when were you born? B:	Seventh month. 28. 21.

	L:	March 28th?



	B:	Seventh Month. July 18, [19]21.



	L:	Okay, 1921. Great. And where were you born? B:	Hawthorne.

	L:	In Hawthorne. All right, so…



	B:	The place is called Gordon Chapel where I was born, but, a lot of people wouldn’t know, but I was reared, rooted from Hawthorne.

	L:	All right. And who were your parents? What were their names? B:	Andrew and Susie McCone.

	L:	McCowan?



	B:	M-C-C-O-N-E.



	L:	And were they from Hawthorne, as well? B:	Yes. They were residents of Hawthorne.





	L:	All right, and what about your grandparents? Do you remember them? B:	Yes. My grandmother was born there also. And my grandfather too.

	L:	So, did you have any siblings? Brothers and sisters? B:	Oh you mean children or brothers and sisters?

	L:	Did you have any brothers or sisters? B:	Yes, there was nine of us.

	L:	Wow. Was that considered a big family?



	B:	A big family? Well, I would consider it being, yeah. It was nine boys and four girls. I meant to say it was five boys and four girls.

	L:	Wow. So what was Hawthorne like when you were growing up?



	B:	Well now, we didn’t grow up in Hawthorne. We grew up in Putnam County. And we moved to a building in Hawthorne. I built a home in Hawthorne. And we moved there after I finished high school. So we walked to Hawthorne high school. We went to Gordon Chapel Elementary School through sixth grade and then we walked from seventh grade through twelfth grade to Hawthorne from Gordon Chapel. From Putnam Country to Alachua County.

	L:	So that’s six miles. How long did that take you to walk?



	B:	Oh, well, we had to run a lot. [Laughter] We’d leave home maybe, I’d say around 7:30 sometimes. We’d run and walk and run and we were pretty late a few mornings. Most of the time we’d be on time.

	L:	What time did you school start?



	B:	8. What time is it over? Eight o’clock.



	L:	Wow. So, you grew up near Hawthorne? Six miles away.





	B:	Six miles east of Hawthorne. By Gordon Chapel. L:	East. And what was it like growing up there?

	B:	It was nice. We had a farm. We owned eight acres of land. We had a farm and planted out there. You know, we grew our food and had cows for milk and all. [Laughter]

	L:	Wow. So your parents, they were farmers? B:	They were what?

	L:	Were they farmers? Your parents? B:	Were they what?

	L:	Farmers. Were they farmers?



	B:	Yeah, they were farmers. They would farm. They had a garden specially if they planted in the fields. For the cows.

	L:	And did they sell their produce or—? B:	No. We just fed the cows.

	L:	It was for you?



	B:	Yeah, for ourselves.



	L:	So, when you were in school, what was your school like? B:	What was it like?

	L:	To be in school.



	B:	It was, you know, elementary school was nice. It was quite nice, we had a nice teacher. You know, it was a lady from down in Putnam County. It was kind of we lived there. She was very good, and I probably had more than one teacher. It





was about three teachers, different teachers doing my years there. But mostly, this lady I’m talking about, the Johnson lady. This the main teacher we had.

L:   And she taught you all the subjects?



B:  Yeah, she taught every, all the classes. First through seventh. Eighth grade, what was eighth grade. I think it was first through eighth grade she taught us. No other teachers, just one teacher.

L:   And how many students were in your school?



B:  It must have been around, maybe thirty. Around thirty. L:   Was it one building?

B:   Yeah, just one building.



L:   And did it have more than--



	B:	And you know different classes would be on, one would be here and one would be over here. Different places, you know, in the school.

L:   So, what did you enjoy about school?



	B:	I enjoyed the lesson I think. [Inaudible]. I wanted to know [Laughter], I would do a lot of reading so I wouldn’t miss out on anything, so I’d know what was going on enough to talk about it. I liked the feeling of knowing what was going on. I liked to talk. [Laughter]

	L:	What about, what were your favorite subjects?



	B:	I didn’t have no special subjects. I just loved all of it. I just loved school. I just loved school. Yeah, I liked spelling, arithmetic, and reading a lot. You know, we read up in the grades like, you could, you know, read the high books, you know [inaudible] you know something about the world’s business.





	L:	So was it, who was in your school, were all of your brothers and sisters in the same school with you?

	B:	Yea there was able to go at that time. See I was the third child, there was three of us at one time. oOce you got six years old, you know, they could go, see and my older brother, was ahead of us and the next one was ahead and then myself. It just kept on that way, everyone was a grade ahead of each other.

	L:	So there was one year between all of the— B:	All of us.

	L:	All of you. So, when it was time for the crops to be harvested or the cows to be milked, did you help with that or did your parents do all of that work?

	B:	When it was soon as we got old enough to do it, we got all of us to do it. We started doing it. My daddy would milk and my mother would milk but, she could stop after we got enough, you know, for milk, we got for ourselves.

	L:	How old were you when you started milking the cows? B:	Pardon?

	L:	How old were you when you started milking the cows? B:	I must have been around seven when I started.

	L:	And then so would you milk the cows and then go to school?



	B:	Yes. We started milking the cow and then turned the cow out in the cows day after day. And we go to school. My daddy go to work and you know, he’d go to work early in the morning at the kaolin mine.

	L:	At the mine?



	B:	Yeah. The kaolin mine.





	L:	So he would go to work at the mine and your mother would stay at the farm. B:	Yeah.

	L:	And your kids, all of the kids would go. So your mother really did most of the farming?

	B:	Yeah, yeah. I mean he would help for a minute, like things you know, but we didn’t have a horse. We didn’t keep a horse because we couldn’t keep up with another thing. He was working at the kaolin mine. And he would just get somebody come and plant.

	L:	Did he ever tell you stories about what it was like to work in the mine?



	B:	Well we were kind of small then, we didn’t pay much attention to that. We didn’t care what they would do at the kaolin mine. He didn’t have to go far, you know, where he had a long way too, but he walked. He could walk to where he was going. From Putnam-Alachua County to Putnam County.

	L:	So had they bought the land or was the land given to them? B:	Who? My daddy?

	L:	Yeah, your parents. Yeah.



	B:	He bought it. He must have because they had it when his mother was living. His mother lived with him before he married me.

	L:	Okay. So it was his land, and maybe his parent’s land before that. And then your mother came and lived with him?

	B:	That’s right.



	L:	And where was she from?



	B:	She was from Hawthorne. She was there out from Hawthorne. You know.





	L:	Did they ever tell you a story about how they met?



	B:	I’m just wondering. I know that he married her very young at the time, you know. L:	Very young.

	B:	And then moved with her. And married her in Palatka Course they didn’t barter. She must have been, you know, old enough for them not to barter. But, she was young.

	L:	And what was she like?



	B:	Quiet, you know. So [inaudible 12:31]. She loved gardening. And milked the cows, you know and she’d help, you know, good housekeeper.

	L:	She worked hard? B:	Huh?

	L:	She worked hard.



	B:	Yeah she worked hard.



	L:	And what was your dad like?



	B:	He was the same way. He walked to work a lot of the time. He didn’t get a ride.



He’d get up early enough to walk to his job.



	L:	Now when you went to school, was it a segregated school? Were there any White children in your school?

	B:	No. It was years before I went to school. I don’t remember ever going, you know, with White children, until I, you know, went to high school and went to college.

	L:	Right, so you were in a segregated, I mean everything was segregated. B:	Everything was segregated, everything was segregated.





	L:	So when you went to high school, here, in Hawthorne, what was the difference between-do you remember the difference between the high school here and the middle school where you were closer to?

	B:	No, they were all the same cause I don’t ever remember them changing, you know, bringing in Whites or anything, mixing them, during the time that I was in school.

	L:	Because you were, how old were, what year did you graduate from high school, do you remember?

	B:	I think it was 1940.



L:  Oh yeah, way before, way before. So 1940, that was around World War II. Just happened.

B:  See what happened, was nobody was going to war, nobody went to war. I didn’t have anybody old enough, you know, to go to war. So I don’t remember anyone, but I had brothers under me who went to war. No one left to go to war.

L:   So you must have been nineteen, eighteen, nineteen years old- B:  When I finished high school?

L:   Yeah.



	B:	I was eighteen when I finished high school. L:	And your little brother-

	B:	We had to walk to Hawthorne then, cause see, we couldn’t go in Putnam County because we only went there after sixth grade. After sixth grade we walked to Hawthorne, to high school. That’s where we had to do that.

	L:	So what did you do after high school?





	B:	I went to college. Went to Florida A&M. Yep. L:	And how was that?

	B:	That was good, I done good. But I learned, I meant, I didn’t have taught one year because they were short of teachers. I taught one year [Inaudible at 16:00]. But I wanted to do something else, they were building ships welding and all. And that’s what I started doing. I took welding. Welding, that’s where I built a home in Hawthorne.

	L:	So when you were in college though, you said that you played basketball? B:	Yeah.

	L:	Can you tell me about that?



	B:	I done good. I did have a lot of my brothers to, you know at home, and it made me a little rough. I could move on the field, once I learned to play basketball. I couldn’t play now. I’d do all that jumping and everything you needed to do. [Laughter] I was very active and I liked playing it very much. We had a good team.

	L:	How did you decide to join the team?



	B:	I just liked seeing them play and wanted to play. L:	And they had an all-ladies basketball team?

	B:	Yeah, all ladies. And then they had all men’s. That’s what boys and girls played so both teams could go wherever they go and the boys played and the girls played.

	L:	What schools did you play? B:	We played-a lot of schools







U:



B:

Alachua



Yeah, Alachua, High Springs, and Gainesville, and Ocala. We played most of the



schools around there.

L:

That was in high school?

B:

Yeah.

L:

So you were on the basketball team in high school and in college?

B:

And in college. I didn’t play one year in college.

L:

You didn’t play one year?

B:

I didn’t play but one year in college.

L:

Uh-huh. Because you were teaching.

B:

I didn’t go to college but one year, cause then I went welding.

L:

Okay so you did three years of college and then your last year you just decided



to do welding instead?

B:

Mhm.

L:

Okay. So then one year, [Inaudible 18:22].

B:

I went to work. You know, in Virginia.

L:

In Virginia. So you became a welder.

B:

Yeah.

L:

That must have been—was that, were there a lot of women doing welding?

B:

Yeah. A lot of them.

L:

And did they-go ahead, sorry.

B:

They couldn’t get better than a third class welder. Men, you could weld better



then a man, but the man could get a first class welding job. But the women





couldn’t, she only got a third class rating. But it was enough, you know to help her family, she wanted to help her family, you know.

	L:	Did you ever try to bring up the issue of being paid less than a man to your supervisors?

	B:	Yeah, a lot of them. There was a lot of women there, you know. There was higher educated then I was, they would talk to ‘em. It didn’t matter. I only had one year of college when I went, but there were some that was higher then me, they couldn’t do anything. But I could weld just as good as some of the first class welder men. I learned how to weld as soon as I was up there starting to trying to learn. I learned how to weld, its something I liked doing.

	L:	Now, was it a welding school?



	B:	They had a welding school that you could go to.



	L:	And who taught you? So where did you go in Virginia?



	B:	They had it right there on the, you know, almost, you know, near where you worked. They had a building that they trained people in.

	L:	Now was this part of World War II in any way? B:	What?

	L:	Was this a part of the war effort?



B:  They paid you for what you done. It’s just that hiring you to do a job. It wasn’t a part of the war. They just have a, they just hired you if you could do the job like they wanted it done.

U1:  That was during that time. That was during World War II.





	B:	[Inaudible 21:13]. We didn’t have no welding, you know. The [inaudible 21:27] Lake Champlain, those ships were the ones I worked with. You know, for years.

	L:	What kind of ships are those?



	B:	Well, some were carrier and some was transports. They had different ships but mostly we worked on carriers and transports.

	L:	Okay. So you were, you went, you did one year of college at A&M, and then you moved to Virginia to be a welder. But how did you learn about welding, this opportunity to get a job welding?

	B:	My brother was in Georgia and he was telling me that the women could do the same thing. I taught school one year. But he was telling me about welding and I could get more money. So that’s why I went. But I couldn’t go nowhere but Virginia. Portsmouth. Norfolk is the main headquarters. But I live in Portsmouth because, you could, it was easy to go to the job from Portsmouth. You know, just go down to the end of the street, and cut across and go to the lake. [Laughter]

	L:	Was that scary for you to move so far away from your family? B:	No, I didn’t think nothing about it. I just wanted to work.

	L:	And so why did you stop being a welder?



	B:	Why did I stop being a welder? What did I doing after that? I started working at Sunland Training Center.

	U1:	Yeah, you got married and started a family in between. And then you went to work at Sunland.

	B:	I started working at Sunland. You know, Sunland Training Center. I was training children, and I loved that. Yes.





	L:	So you were, when did you get married? How did you meet your husband? B:	We were living in the same town, and he came out of service.

	L:	In Virginia?



	B:	No, back to Hawthorne. L:	All right.

	B:	Yeah I met him, so when I decided to go back home, that’s when I thought you know, I decided to go back home and marry him. So I be home.

	L:	So did you decide to go back to Hawthorne in order to get married?



	B:	Not exactly. You know. [Inaudible 24:29] They had done all the ship building mostly they were gonna do. We worked a long, many years there.

	U1:	Our daddy died in [19]46 and you came back after that. L:	So your dad died in 1946 after the war ended?

	B:	Mhm.



	U1:	It was in September of—and Dad died in October.



	B:	I’ve had a lot of sicknesses in, you know, when you don’t keep up with something you can’t tell it just like it is. You just remember it. You can tell that part that you remember. And the parts you just don’t remember you just don’t bother with.

Some you just forget anyway. It’s not necessary, you know. Not something that you had any problem with or anything. That parts you had problems you remember that the most of anything.

	L:	That’s true. So what do you remember about that time?



	B:	About you know, it’s a struggle is to how you have to do with the people that you working with, where you go, you know how you take things. We lived with a





family of people but when you go to work you don’t know where they gonna put you. And you got to know how to manage the people you with, cause see, I was over a lot of people I hadn’t been working with in years. Cause when they found out how well you know things and how you do and how they can depend on you to do it right, they will hold you to that group and have you looking out for that.

And I done that. They know they could depend on me if anything went wrong, they could depend on me to tell them what was what to tell them. What was going on, you know, what was causing the problem and what not. And they would work on it, they appreciated that. That’s what they wanted. You don’t want someone just doing it any kind of way just to have a job. You want them to do it right.

	L:	So you enjoyed—



	B:	And they know I was gonna do that. They saw I was that kind of person. I wanted things right.

	L:	So after you came back to Hawthorne, then what happened? B:	Built a house, built two.

	L:	You built two houses?



	B:	We built two, that’s right. Cause they didn’t build them at Hawthorne. A guy, I married, and moved out of Hawthorne down south. The bought our land and built one down there.

	U1:	You moved to Miami.



	B:	They I built one in Orlando, the first place where we stopped though.





	U1:	Our land in Hawthorne, over a period of time you see, your Daddy died in [19]46, you got married, I think you got married in [19]46.

	B:	It’s been time, I’m gonna mix up times.



	U1:	You come back from Miami. Her husband has a sister down there, two sisters.



One sister in Miami. And he went down to stay and then you all decided to move back to Hawthorne.

	B:	Yeah. You know there’s been a lot of changes.



	U1:	It was over the years that was in the early [19]50s, or mid [19]50s when you came back.

	L:	It’s been a long time.



	U1:	You had your children over the period of time before you went to Sunland to work. After working in Virginia.

	B:	And then I went to Sunland Training Center.



	U:	Yeah and that was in [19]57. Then you went to Sunland Training Center. Yeah it might have been in [19]56 and you went to Sunland in [19]57. And you worked there from [19]57-[19]82 I believe.

	B:	And I was a good welder.



	U1:	And then you lost your husband in [19]84.



	B:	But you know I’ve had some sickness, you know—



	U1:	But all the sickness come about since then. Since your husband passed.



	B:	Yeah a lot of that come since then. He passed a good while though before. After I worked a long time.

	L:	So what, did you enjoy your work? What kind of work was it? At Sunland.





	B:	Welding ships.



	L:	Sure, that. And then also when you came back to Florida. B:	That’s when I started welding. Cause I worked, you know.

	U1:	You was welding first. You went to the job welding, that was first. That was before you worked at Sunland.

	B:	I welded. Cause you know I forgotten almost what I done. Where I worked all the time.

	U1:	In the mid [19]40s. That was in the [19]40s when you were working.



	B:	In the forties? Yeah that was the last place I worked, Sunland. I retired from there.

	L:	So what was Sunland like?



	B:	Sunland Training Center was children. L:	What did you do with the children.

	B:	Trained them to do things, you know, say things. How to keep themselves and just taught them things. And, it was, you love those children. It was a lot of them there now. There was thousands of children there.

	L:	Thousands of children?



	B:	Sunland Training Center? You didn’t ever read about that? L:	Never.

	B:	It was something. It was something. L:	What kind of children?

	B:	Retarded. Most of them were, you know, retarded children. And their parents, you know, couldn’t keep them at home. And they call you “momma.” Momma





Brown, I was Momma Brown. And they love you, they were something. They just, some of them didn’t love nobody, they hurt because they were there. But you could, I could make them happy. I could make most of them happy that I worked with. Cause you have a certain group you worked with. Certain houses, they have houses for them to stay in, seven houses. And they had groups of children there. There was a different, you know, attitudes, and different thinking and you know, just different children. Some would just fight all the time, some would cry all the time. But they just called me Momma Brown. “Momma Brown, Momma Brown!” They used to see me coming in the door and they just run to me. But you know, if you, I’d always play with them and talk to them and all that. And pretend I wanted them to do so and so. I’m gonna have so and so do so and so today.

And they wanted to do it so bad. They were just, you know, they were retarded children, but they were nice children. The ones I had, and they were, the supervisors would always tell that I was working on the [inaudible 33:29], I wasn’t a supervisor, I was a supervisor of the [inaudible 33:33]. But, they would always say, “Why don’t ya’ll do that Miss Brown, nothing Miss Brown, keep our children.” If you nice, mature, and lovable with them, you can’t hardly get rid of them. I try to keep them happy.

	L:	You must be a very patient person. B:	Huh?

	L:	You must be a very patient person.



	B:	Yeah, that’s what it was. And then I played with them, you know. Some of them I didn’t wanna bother them, they just worked. They worked good. People





[inaudible 34:12] and worked good. Cause they put me in the office a lot of the time. When someone be gone, the group I was working under. They would put me in the office a lot of the time. If something was happening and they wanted [inaudible 34:23] because they know I was gonna, everyone knows if they were fighting [inaudible 34:31] I try to treat em nice. And they always, Mama Brown. They’d be glad to see me coming [inaudible 34:43]. And I liked, I love them though. Course you could, it’s no use in yelling at children when you know their condition is fussing and cutting up with them all the time. Treat them good, [inaudible 34:58] and pet them and all that. They love that. Some of them cry about so and so, and all and some of them fight.

	L:	Do you remember any particular child that you were, connected with? Or any story about your work?

	B:	No, say—



	L:	Do you have any stories that when you think about your work it just reminds you of a story.

	B:	Well, not exactly. Cause I had so many of them. That, you know, cause I worked with a lot of sweet children. To me, cause they were, you know, I walk in the door, when I come in the door to work, Momma Brown, they call me Momma Brown. “Momma Brown, Momma Brown, Momma Brown.” And just, be just as happy to see me as they could. But a lot of time you make rounds on [inaudible 36:00]. A lot of times, supervisors have me making rounds on [inaudible 36:06]. And they were not, there be some of them be so well by themselves. They hid, they don’t wanna be with the rest of them. But you want them all to play and mix





together and love one another. Teach ‘em how to do that, and they never gonna have to do that, ever. And I won’t let them fight no more, I just taught them go by themselves and tell them how to treat the other one, and don’t hurt him, and all that.

	L:	How did—



	B:	I—



	L:	Go ahead.



	B:	I enjoy working with them, though. L:	Good. How did you get that job?

	B:	You go to, they have place there for you to go. It’s a state job, but you go to the office.

	L:	So when you came back from Virginia and your father had died, you were looking for a new job? Or did you already know that you were gonna work at this place?

	B:	I already, you know, I knew when I was gonna quit, I quit myself they hated to see me go but you know, when I marry and start [inaudible 37:26] myself I had to kind of quit then.

	L:	The welding?



	B:	Yeah.



	L:	So you got married—



	B:	Yes, and I welded, and this way I wouldn’t have to, all the children. I didn’t have children but, cause I like to take of children. I’m gonna take care of them, I’m gonna take care of them. I don’t wanna leave them in any kind of way.

	L:	So, but you got married after you came back from Virginia?





	B:	That was the last job welding.



	L:	Right, but after you came back from your welding job, when you came to Florida, you got married after that.

	B:	Yeah, I got married while welding. L:	While welding you got married.

	U1:	No you got married after you came back from, you got married after you came back from the welding.

	B:	After I came back from welding?



	L:	Who was your husband? What was he like?



	B:	He was kind of easy going. He was nice, you know. He liked to go to church, we’d go to church together.

	L:	What was his name? B:	Hiram.

	L:	And you had two children? B:	Yeah, well-

	U1:	Three. You had three. Pricilla, Shirley and Michael. You had two girls and one boy. Michael is the baby.

	B:	I almost had forgotten that myself. [Laughter] U1:	It’s easy to forget.

	B:	Is that right now. Two girls, cause see, I get the other boys mixed up pretty bad sometimes. Rodney, Kevin, Marcel.

	U1:	Rodney and Kevin are your grandchildren. B:	My baby brothers come along with them.





	L:	So, let’s talk about your husband. Where did you meet him?



	B:	He was born right [inaudible 39:48] on the farm. And so, I just, I could have married years before I met my husband, but you know trying to work to help my parents. You know. My daddy was kind of getting old, you know, and I wanted to try to be sure I helped my mother. I didn’t know how my brother was gonna do it. And that’s what caused me to, you know, start a lot of work. You know, I didn’t get married so early like some people you know in their teens they marry, I didn’t do that.

	L:	How old were you?



	B:	I forgot now. What age was I?



	U1:	You must have been about twenty-five.



	L:	So when you worked you would give part of your money to help your family out? B:	Yes.

	L:	Yeah because you were one of the oldest siblings so you had a responsibility to help your family. You’re the oldest girl. And what did your brothers do? Your older brothers. Did they work as well?

	B:	One, no, Lawrence the oldest brother was a truck driver but he left home and went to the north.

	U1:	And Logan, he and I went to Tallahassee school together. He went to welding too in Georgia, but then he came back and got a job teaching at Lincoln High School in Tallahassee.

	B:	You know, there’s a lot that I’ve forgotten because I don’t think about it. There’s [inaudible 41:59] to try to send them to school to get them out of school.





	L:	What was your, what did you think about raising children? Like what was your philosophy or your ideas about raising children.

	B:	I just wanted them to be the best in school. [Laughter]I wanted them to be the best and I tried to teach them, you know that’s the biggest thing I wanted them to do, is learn. They done pretty good too.

	U1:	She also help raising the other sibling.



	L:	Yeah that’s true. You were older so you helped to raise your younger siblings, your bothers and sisters.

	U1:	During the time when she was working and having her family she had one of her sisters staying with her in college. She was going to college but she as staying with her. She was helping her.

	L:	Wow. So did your family all live close together? B:	Well—

	L:	When you were growing up did you have uncles and aunts, and your parents?



Did they all live close by or were they scattered around?



	B:	Sometimes. They were kind of scattered though. One was in Massachusetts. My oldest brother was in Massachusetts.

	L:	What about when you were a child? Who were your neighbors when you were living on the farm?

	B:	Who were my neighbors?



	L:	Yeah do you remember? Did you play with the kids in the neighborhood? I guess not neighborhood but, on the nearby farms?

	B:	Yeah, we went to school in the country.





	L:	Yep.



	B:	My daddy’s mother had eighty acres of land out there where we live on the lake. L:	You lived on a lake?

	B:	Yeah.



	L:	Wow.



	B:	Not a swimming lake, a fishing lake. A fishing lake. We had a swimming lake down below us at the end of our land on the south [inaudible 44:20]. And it was clear and nice and that’s where we’d swim. But the lake we were living on was [inaudible 44:31] everything. People coming there going fishing, coming in and asking my daddy about fishing. And sometimes they come in and open the gate while we gone and go right outside and go fishing.

	L:	Did you say it was eight acres or eighty acres. B:	Eighty acres.

	L:	Eight-zero?



	B:	Yeah, eighty acres.



	L:	Wow, that’s huge property.



	B:	We farmed on that, my daddy farmed on that too and all.



	L:	Who were, did the people around you, was anybody jealous? Do you remember?



That your family had so much land.



	B:	No a lot of people had land out there. L:	They had that much land?

	B:	A lot of them had horses, too. But we didn’t have a horse all the time. But they had horses, some of them. And that’s all they would do.





	L:	Did you have electricity? B:	What?

	L:	Did you have electricity, light? B:	No.

	L:	Did you have it when you moved into Hawthorne?



	B:	Did we have? Yeah, we had. I bought a place in Hawthorne when I went to Virginia welding. I done all that welding on the ships. And when I stopped fishing in high school, then I went to Virginia. Portsmouth, Virginia. Norfolk, Virginia.

That’s where it was. But I lived in Portsmouth.



	L:	So then you bought a house here.



	B:	I bought a house in Hawthorne. Bought one here, bought one here too. [Laughter]

	L:	So how did you see this community change over the years?



	B:	Well, the people just seemed to have gotten better. They weren’t just, loose people. A lot of noise, they start going to church better the way I was.

	L:	What church did you go to? B:	Baptist Church.

	L:	Baptist Church. And do you still go? B:	To what?

	L:	Do you still go to church?



	B:	Yeah. I still go to church. I still belong to a church. L:	And when you were growing up?





	B:	Not the same one but still a Baptist Church. See when I moved into Hawthorne, to stay, we were living in a place called Gordon Chapel at first. But where our eighty acres of land were, we went to the country’s church out there. We lived in Putnam country and the, the church was in Putnam county and we lived in Alachua county. But still, we went to a Gildel church cause we were Baptist and they didn’t have no Baptist church where we were. My daddy was always Baptist. All of us were Baptist. My mother’s people weren’t Baptist, she joined with my daddy.

	L:	Was it common for people to, did people sometimes have like the mother was Baptist and the father was Methodist or did it, was it common to join and belong to the same church after you got married?

	B:	Well, some of them would and some of them wouldn’t. Some of the women would go with the husband. You know, they didn’t wanna separate and one go to church at one place and one go to church at the other. After they’re married, they would go to the same church.

	L:	So what was it like for your family on Sunday? B:	We all went to the same church.

	L:	So tell me about the day. You wake up on Sunday. What was it like Sundays and your family?

	B:	We just get up and get breakfast, and get lined up to go to church. L:	What was for breakfast?

	B:	Well, we had, you know, a lot of chicken, when we lived in the country before we moved. And we had rich—we had plenty hogs, and kept—





	U1:	Yeah, bacon and sausage.



	B:	We had everything. We didn’t have to buy nothing at the store from a hog. We had our sausage, we had our sausage made. [Laughter]

	L:	That must have been so much work for your mother!



	B:	It wasn’t. You just take your meat to the cold storage and tell them what you want. Just leave it there, and they do it.

	L:	You just have to take, did you take the whole animal? B:	Yeah the whole animal.

	L:	Alive?



	B:	No, we just fatten them and clean them. We keep them fat. And then we clean them. And take them to the cold storage. And then they would do the rest.

	L:	Like a refrigeration? A butcher shop kind of?



	B:	Yeah they would cut it up like you would eat it, you know. You see all you had to do is just pack it away.

	L:	And then you would pick it up?



	B:	They got what you want when you’re ready to cook.



	U1:	Some of those things are done away with. We don’t have them anymore. The one that I know of right around here, it might be gone. It’s on Archer. On Newberry.

	B:	Yeah we had sausage.



	U1:	When we were young, they would take the meat and just clean the whole and cut him and then take him to the cold storage.

	B:	Yeah, you’ve never put a hog in cold storage? A whole hog.





	L:	I have never.



	B:	And see when you bring him home, you hang him in the smoke aisle. And when you get ready to eat, all you gotta do is go out there and cut off the pieced you want and bring it back in the house.

	L:	So you had a smokehouse? B:	Yep.

	L:	All right, so you didn’t have to keep it cold because you didn’t have a refrigerator. B:	Cause it was smoked. It was a smoked.

	U1:	We did have smokehouses and the smoked get on me when I was real small. Do it at home, and now modern times, you put it in the cold storage.

	B:	But the cold storage, you didn’t have to do all that work yourself. You just put it in the cold storage.

	L:	How far away was it to get to a cold storage? B:	Six miles. It was six miles in the country.

	L:	Did it take an hour to walk?



	B:	It would take a little more than an hour sometimes to walk. We walked to school for years, twelve miles a day. Round-trip. Played basketball too.

	L:	Yeah. I mean how you go energy to do that. You were getting so much exercise just by walking back and forth.

	B:	That’s right.



	L:	Oh my goodness.



	B:	But I played basketball and we went to state. L:	State championships?





	B:	State tournament in Tallahassee.



	L:	Wow. You were good. What position did you play? B:	Guard.

	L:	Guard.



	B:	I couldn’t shoot balls good but I could get up there and get that ball and give it to the ball.

	L:	You were pretty tall. Were you a tall person when you were playing? B:	Not that tall, five feet five. But I could jump and so. [Laughter]

	L:	So, okay. Let’s go back to Sunday. You wake up, you have breakfast with sausage and grits. And then did everybody go to the same Baptist church?

	B:	Yeah.



	L:	All the kids?



	B:	Yeah, we all went to the same church. L:	And you put on your nice outfit?

	B:	Yeah.



	L:	And then how long was the, what was the church like? What did it look like?



	B:	Oh we had an educated preacher. He could preached god’s word and there would be happy people. People all over the choir were happy. He could sang to them. You know, it’s good when you go to church and people see the love in the lord and try to work for the lord. It means a lot to me. It means a lot. He could sing, and then people would just shout all over. It was just an enjoyment to see what was going on there.

	L:	Did it take most of your day? Were you in the church for a lot of time?





	B:	No, see you just go there for the eleven o’clock service. If you wanted to go to the six o’clock service then you went there for that. We go for the eleven o’clock service and at the eleven o’clock service you go ahead and stay if you wanna stay. You wanna go out on that day. If you lived away from the church a long ways then you had to walk. You don’t go back at night and have to walk.

	L:	So what did you all do?



	B:	We had a hard time at night, so if we had a way to ride, we would stay for night services.

	L:	How long was it when you started at eleven, when did you get out of your church.



	B:	In the daytime? It lasts not over three hours. From eleven, we had Sunday school that morning until eleven o’clock and then we start church. And then about one- thirty, we out of church for the day.

	L:	And then did you stay in town or would you go back home?



	B:	We go back home. We be driving, most of the time. Cause we were Baptist and we had a Methodist church that we could see from our house, but we weren’t Methodist.

	L:	Did you have a car? B:	Yeah.

	L:	Your parents had a car?



	B:	Yeah. My brother had a car and they, we would go together.



	L:	Wow. Okay let me think. What else? What are we missing? What did we not talk about yet?

	B:	I don’t know but we walked six miles a day to school.





	L:	I can’t believe it. If children are hearing this interview they’re going to think, oh my goodness, I’m sure glad that I didn’t grow up then.

	B:	And you know after we moved to town, see, we didn’t have no way to go out and go across the railroad and wait on the bus.

	L:	Now when you lived in town?



	B:	No when we lived in the country, it’s all farm in the country. I moved to town but it wasn’t that far.

	L:	Did the railroad tracks, did they separate the population? Did the African American population live on one side and did the White population live on the other? Was it mixed?

	B:	They done that but you know it looked kind of mixed. They were close together. They were close to one another. Sometimes the house would be full of Blacks and sometimes the house would be full of Whites. They’d be friendly, they’d be friendly now.

	L:	There were never any problems? B:	No. Sometimes both sides have.

	L:	What about during the Civil Rights Movement?



	B:	What? They didn’t pay no attention to that. I don’t know of any, you know, problems that way. They like, if one liked them then they liked them and if they didn’t they didn’t bother with them.

	L:	Do you remember what you thought about Martin Luther King?



	B:	Yeah but look, see that was a different thing. He was leading, you know, where somebody didn’t want him to lead. I think that’s what happened then. You know





sometimes you want to do one thing and somebody want you to do another. They want you to do what they want you to do. And a lot of times that bring on problems. A lot of times people don’t think about what you’re doing as long as you don’t bother them. People think nothing about it.

	L:	So you never faced any kind of discrimination when you were living here? B:	unh-uh.

	L:	Wow.



B:  Go to games, go to basketball games and they integrated White and Black. You know, playing.

	L:	When you went to the stores— B:	Huh?

	L:	When you had to go to the store in Hawthorne, was there a separate entrance?



B:  No. Everybody I [inaudible 59:45] doing the same thing, picking up the same thing and looking at the same thing.

L:  So there was no, you know how you hear stories about the water fountains that said “Colored” and “White,” and the bathrooms that said “Colored” and “White,” and the different—

B:   Now, they do that in bus station things a lot of the time. L:  And here?

	B:	No, and when you riding, they used to have a place ‘cause its people who don’t know one another and they like to pick a fight any kind of way so they have separate things in places like that. But it’s for going to school, see, cause the White and the Black go to school anyway together.





	L:	But not when you were growing up. Right? B:	Yeah, some of them were mixed up then.

	L:	In 1920s? Well no, you were going to school in 1930?



	U1:	No they were not riding the bus, we didn’t ride the bus at all. We had to walk, the White children rode the bus.

	B:	See I would never—



	U1:	You had to walk from Hawthorne to school. B:	Yeah, but we didn’t have no bus out there.

	U1:	That’s what I’m saying, we didn’t have one. We walked while the Whites rode.



	L:	So it wasn’t just that there wasn’t transportation, there was transportation, you just were allowed. Oh my goodness.

	B:	We didn’t ride the bus.



	L:	Did they pass by you? Would you see it pass you? B:	I didn’t ever live nowhere like that.

	U1:	In some areas. Yeah, well after you left and went away, the younger ones, the bus passed by, cause some of them had to walk too. Maybe at one time or another.

	L:	Cause you’re the younger sister.



	U1:	I’m younger than she is. And there’s two sisters younger than me. L:	And so they would pass by when you were going to school?

	U1:	Mmhm. I didn’t go that often, but I had friends who had a car they were riding and I’d go out to highway twenty and ride with them. The White children would ride





the bus on highway twenty. And if I got to highway twenty there was no bus to pick me up I had to walk to Hawthorne.

	B:	Now, they didn’t integrate the buses. It was all White bus.



	L:	Well I think, maybe, are you getting tired? Okay. All right. Well I don’t want to— you know, we’ve been talking for an hour.

	B:	But we so far in the country. We couldn’t catch a bus, no way.



	L:	Yeah, but when you get into town, I’m imagining, you know once you got into town you would, you know, see a little bit of a different-

	B:	Yeah, you see, that school’s on the south side of us and we were on north side and a lot of times, if we pass, the bus passed us, you know, we coming, it wasn’t integrated. They all were White children riding the bus.

	U1:	And sometimes the water fountains, Colored and White, you see things like that in the city mostly. Or if you’re waiting on the highway or something. We didn’t have, the small—you know Hawthorne is small, and there were no two fountains in a place. But sometimes, there wasn’t a fountain at all.

	L:	So it was a really small, small community. B:	Yeah.

	L:	I mean what, how many stores were here? And what was it like?



	B:	Well everyone knew everybody else in the grocery stores and stuff like that. It was kind of different, you know.

	L:	Is there any other question you can think of? Any stories?



	B:	I used to wonder what they were gonna do in Heaven. When they go to Heaven.



How they gonna work it. [Laughter]





	L:	Who? That’s what you would think?



	B:	Yeah, I think, I wonder what they gonna do when they get to heaven. U1:	See what the Whites do and see what the Blacks do, huh.

	B:	Yeah. [Laughter]



	L:	That’s a pretty good thought. B:	It is. You wonder.

	U1:	It won’t be like you think, I don’t get.



	B:	It won’t be, they won’t separate us, they don’t separate nobody. L:	St. Peter is not waiting?

	B:	If you don’t wanna stay up then you’re going back to Hell when you go. You know God, you know His ways. People don’t understand, you know, sometimes we don’t understand things. And you know, God, His fault, He made them, He made us all. And I don’t think God would have made anybody like that hate evil, do all that for her. You just have to learn how to do things His way and that’s all.

	L:	Is that one of the reasons why you decided to be a teacher, helping the kids? B:	Say was that what?

	L:	Was that one of the—



	B:	No, see I wasn’t a teacher, now. But I was just, you know, work with all of them.



They all seemed to love me, you know.



	L:	Because maybe, did some people think that certain kids who had mental problems, they didn’t deserve to live or they shouldn’t be helped?

	B:	Yeah, a lot of people do think that way now, I think. I think that a lot of people think that way now. They don’t want, well you wouldn’t want your child to grow up





a retarded child. Cause you would wanna be around because the retarded child don’t understand what you’re doing, how to do it. And they just do anything, but you don’t want somebody doing anything.

L:   Without boundaries.



	B:	Yeah. You want a separator. Regardless of what you want to separate. Cause they’ll hurt the other ones and think nothing of it. They don’t understand. I worked at Sunland Training Center a long time, and the children that didn’t know, hadn’t been taught anything, they just as lovable with one another as they could be. But if you know and they’re taught, it’s a different thing, it’s a different thing. We’re all god’s children but, it’s a different thing. So, it just causes trouble. The Devil is gonna show himself, he gonna show himself.

	L:	Well, I want to thank you, so much, for taking the time to do this interview. This is, you have such a, very unusual life that you did so many things. But, so what I always do when I end an interview is, I like to give the person I was speaking with, I like to give them the opportunity to have the last word. And to say whatever it is they want to say. Something that we didn’t talk about, or just anything you want to say. And then after you say that, then the interview is over, and I just thank you very much on behalf of the University of Florida.

	B:	Yeah, I like to sit down and just talk. Just to hear people talk, one race to another. And some is so different from others. Not unless they’re fooling you, they’re so different. There’s some sweet people of other races that are just different. They’re right on the Lord’s side. There right—if they can’t get along with it, they just rather not be bothered with it. And that’s the way it is. Don’t pick at





them and don’t try to hurt them. They’re different, they’re just different. You don’t hate them because they’re different. But god made them all. And you got to watch out for that if you want to go to heaven when you die. [Laughter]

	L:	Words of wisdom. [End of interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero



	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 20, 2019