AAHP-535 Agbandje-McKenna 10-17-2017; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 535 Mavis Agbandje-Mckenna

Interviewed by Anupa Kotipoyina and Holland Hall on October 17, 2017 1 hour 20 minutes | 41pages



Abstract: In this interview Dr. Mckenna talks about her family life growing up in Nigeria and moving to the United Kingdom. She went on to high school and college and began a career in organic chemistry. It was in the United Kingdom that she met her husband and moved to the United States where she and her husband took a research position at Purdue University. From Purdue University they relocated back to the United Kingdom where she and her husband took a faculty position at the University of Warrick. She states it is at the University of Warrick that the University of Florida pursued her to come and develop a structured biology program based on her expertise and credentials. Dr.

Mckenna also talks about her mentors throughout her academic and professional career and her experiences as woman of color throughout her journey. She has mentored countless students as they have gotten into the field of science and talks about her experience as a mentor and a mentee.



Keywords: [Gainesville, Florida; University of Florida; African American History Program, African American History, University of Warrick]



AAHP-535

Date: October 17, 2017

Interviewee: Mavis Agbandje-McKenna Interviewer: Anupa Kotipoyina and Holland Hall



	K:	Good afternoon, this is Anupa Kotipoyina, and I am here with Dr.—could you say your name?

	A:	Agbandje-McKenna.



	K:	—and Holland Hall with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. We are in Gainesville, Florida. Dr. McKenna, could you start by telling me where and when you were born?

	A:	All right, so I was born in Nigeria, in a little village called Ovara, and the state was Orugun so that was in Bendal state in Nigeria, and that was in the [19]60s. So that’s where I grew up. My primary schooling was there, and I moved to the U.K. when I was eleven years old. So then I went to, you know, high school in the U.K. in London.

	K:	Oh, okay.



	A:	Yeah.



	K:	Could you tell me a little bit about your early education in Nigeria?



	A:	Yeah, it was, mostly it was very basic. I don’t know if you’ve ever been to sort of these African countries. It was a village, literally with little rooms where we—you had grades and such, but it was a system, and this system used to be the same in the U.K. where you know you had to pass exams where you went on to the next grade. So if you didn’t, you got held back. But it was literally just four villages came together in this little school, and that’s it. And we were educated in English.





It was weird. I say this to people, because we did not speak English, really. We spoke Nigerian languages, but we did English, and math, and history, and geography, and all of those were in English. Those were most of the subjects, and that was—yeah, it was just a little room full of kids in the village. You know, we all had uniform, it was very, I think, mostly the ideas were introduced by missionaries that came and started these schools. Yeah, that was—it was nothing very formal. We had books that we read, and it was interesting. So my parents actually moved to the U.K. when I was young. My father moved when I was one, my mother when I was two. So I grew up with my grandma. So I got to the stage where I was ready for—you know, eleven, I needed to get out of grade school. So it was either I was going to move to another town, because there was no such school, there was no high school, or middle school or high school equivalent in my village. It was just too small. So it was a time when either I moved to a another town, bigger city, or I join my family in the U.K. So at that time the determination was I should go to the U.K. to join my parents. So yeah, that’s when I moved.

	K:	How was that transition?



	A:	It was hard. It was really hard. And because, mostly because my parents had moved to the U.K. and had kids—other kids. I think there four of—there’s six of us—there were four other kids. And then so I had to come and integrate into this family, which my grandma felt like my mother really—and suddenly now I had to live—it was hard for me, but it was good for me. I needed to do that, right? For my education.





	K:	Yeah.



	A:	But, yeah. But integrating into a preformed family or such, was hard. And interestingly, and I’m one of the lucky ones, because a lot of girls did get brought from the village and into the U.K., they never really had an education opportunity because school—you didn’t have to go to school.

	K:	In the U.K.?



	A:	No, not in the U.K., back in my village. K:	Oh, okay.

	A:	Some kids did not go to school. Only—and I don’t even know if it was finances, but you know. I don’t think at one point it was mandatory to go to school. So like, for instance, my mother, she never went to school. She didn’t have to. But she obviously—so she’s been educating herself in the U.K. But going back to the U.K., when I got there, I had to start school. And that was hard because you know, there’s this girl who could read English, but couldn’t really speak it. And then, and so—integrating into those schools was hard, too. I went to an all-girls school in London, and um, but you know obviously I must have been a bright enough kid, because I picked up and learned and managed to get through the system. I did go to an English for—what is it called? Not English for foreigners, but—you know the special classes where they teach you English?

	A:	Yeah, they call it ESOL here.



	H:	Like Speakers of Other Languages.





	A:	Maybe that’s what it is, yeah. So I had to do that in the U.K. Just every—I don’t know, I think once a week, or twice a week, I went to another class to learn how to speak English and read English better.

[break in interview 05:12]



	A:	So that was—that was for me the hardest part, actually, getting into the school and integrating, and just being different. Because you know, here’s this little girl from the village, you know I had like, no hair. Very typical, those kids that you see on TV that are coming from an African village is what I was like.

	K:	Were there any other children who were also from Africa or from, you know, other countries? Was it like, a diverse school, or not really?

	A:	Um, it was diverse enough. You know, it was inner London. Yeah inner London School.

	H:	London.



	A:	Yeah, inner London school. So there was, um, yeah, there was. But not necessarily with my experience. Most of them would have been born in London. You know, maybe there were other families—Asian families that moved. But it was mostly English kids there. But there were other kids that had come from Nigeria in other families. But again, a lot of them were—but you know, girls get to, you know we get put in these roles. Especially when you come from Africa, you get put in these domestic roles. So a lot of them would be like, brought to babysit their siblings, or help take care of the house, rather than be brought to





the U.K. to be educated. I was brought to be educated, so that was good. That was a difference for me.

	K:	What did your parents do in England?



	A:	So my father was actually a social worker, and my mother was just a factory worker, you know, she worked for a factory that made cookies [laughter]. So that was cool, we used to get a lot of cookies. Yeah, but my father was—he moved actually from Nigeria to London to get educated. So you know, he got his undergraduate degree there, and he became a social worker to work for the government. Yep, so that’s what he did.

	H:	Can you talk about like, your earliest interest in science, or what sparked that interest?

	A:	Um, you know, it’s weird. I’ve always been interested in science. For me it was chemistry, right? It’s like, I understood it. And organic chemistry, I could put together an equation and I knew that it was going to generate something. I like making stuff. So again, in the U.K., in science, we got to do labs. For me that was fun. I like human biology, I like anatomy and physiology. So that was for me, was just being understanding, or trying to understand how the body worked for me was fascinating. So yeah, that’s, you know I hated all the—trying to remember all the names of all the animals. I did not like that part of science, but you—I would at one point, not now I would know the bones of the body and all the circulation. For me it’s just discovery, and for me it was always very exciting. So yeah, that was my spark in science. I’ve always, from high school, been interested in





science. Physics, not, you know. Chemistry, biology, those types of science— physics, I didn’t like that much. So, but all the other things I really liked. I also like reading, I like geography—I liked all of those subjects, too. But science, I felt that I could do. So, yeah. But discovery is what led me to science, and I find it a lot of fun in science [laughter].

	K:	So could you talk about how you transitioned from high school to college?



	A:	Yeah, so high school in London—you know that was where I was, and then college, I actually was, again, because of my interest in chemistry and human biology, I did a double major in chemistry and human biology. I found a program that would allow me to do that, and that was—at the time they were called polytechnics, now they’re called universities. But that was—you know, I looked at so many different places, and that was the one place that would allow me to still do both. And so that’s what I did, and you know, just the standard. We had to do—in the U.K. you have to do certain exams, you have to apply, you have to get certain grades. You know, you—I don’t think it happens, I just like, no actually not MCATs. Just like your GPA. So in the U.K. at high school you do a certain set of exams. Mine were all science, of course. And then based on the grades that you get, you get to go to different schools. And so when you interview at the school, they would say, Oh you need an A in chemistry, a B in biology, or a C in physics, or whatever, to be able to be accepted into this school. And different schools will give you what their requirements are. They don’t always have to be the same.

And so then if you get it, then you get to go to the choice—if you get whatever you are a given as the grade needed or better, you get to go to that school. So





for me I really wanted a program that would allow me to do both. Because a lot of people don’t—you know, they think chemistry and human biology, they don’t really—especially orgo, you know. I wanted to do organic chemistry and human biology. And there wasn’t many programs that will provide that, so that was my push. It was to find a place that would allow me to do that. And so, yep.

	H:	Did you do research—



	A:	As an undergrad, yes! I actually did, which wasn’t common. It’s weird because, and if I remember it was one of my organic chemistry teachers, said, Oh you should do a research. And I have my research—where is it? Uh, it used to be up there somewhere. I had my research, senior thesis up there, it’s bound and everything [laughter], see?

	H:	We both did theses so we’re just like—[laughter]



	A:	Yeah! Exactly. So that little brown thin thing, you know, is my undergrad research. See it says, BSC-combined studies.

	H:	Right here? Yeah.



	A:	Yeah! That one. So that was my undergraduate thesis. So I was one of the few people, actually, who did do research, because you know I did—I extracted [inaudible 11:49] from chocolate and wine. It was actually pretty cool. And then analyzed them using the gas chromatography system. But yeah I did, it was my orgo teacher who said, You should do research, this is going to be good for you if you want to do a PhD or whatever—if you want to go into industry, which is one





of my options that I was thinking—it would have had the hands-on experience. So I did, yeah.

	H:	Was is that professor who mentored you throughout that process or—?



	A:	Well, um, yes. So it was. Throughout the research process, actually I had two mentors, and I couldn’t tell you their name, which is really sad. Two of them, but they’re actually—it’s a member of the lab, you know, like a senior member of the lab actually mentored me through the research. But it was two different—I guess must have been somebody, human biology and somebody in orgo that co- mentored me through the research. But the supervisor was somebody in the lab.

	H:	Can you talk a little bit about your relationship with that person? A:	The supervisor?

	H:	Mhm.



	A:	You know it was really mostly very professional. I wouldn’t say that I started getting mentored as an undergrad, really. Not in the sense of—you know—so I told you about, they told me about what you need if you want to go onto the next step. But not really personal relationships. In the U.K. it’s kind of—I don’t know if you know British people, they’re very reserved [laughter]. So there is not a lot of—and I didn’t go to a, sort of, tier-one university, I guess. So Rob, my husband, he went to Kings College. And at Kings College they have mentor groups, what are called mentor groups, right? All the way through, from freshman to when you graduate—three years. We normally do our degrees in three years. So there’s this group that go to a faculty member and meet with them once a week for the





entire time. So there’s real mentoring there, but again it’s very academic. But you could go to them if you have any personal problems. Where I was, we didn’t have such a setting. We had a person who was in charge of our program that we can go to if we have any kind of concerns or issues, but it wasn’t really a mentoring thing. It was mostly peer mentoring. You know you had a group of friends and you kind of supported each other, and that’s what it was mostly for me when I was an undergrad.

	K:	So how did you—did someone push you towards a PhD, or is that something you navigated on your own?

	A:	That was, um.



	H:	Yeah, like PhD.



	A:	Yeah, how did I get to my PhD, exactly. So I… I mean the options. So when I was an undergad, I didn’t—it was either I was going to go and work in a factory- type thing. I wanted to be a supervisor. So my options for me were, I could do that, you know, some sort of chemistry, quality control capacity, or do a PhD. There was discussion of medical school, but that was too late. Because in the

U.K. you go to medical school out of high school, so it’s a six/ seven-year program, or you can do undergrad and then you do something else. So I wanted to do a PhD just—that was my next thing. You know, my dad was, Well you’re either going to go become a lawyer, or you wanna—what do you want to do? And so I said, well you know I’m interested in science, and so I interviewed a couple of places to go do—I applied to do a PhD. It wasn’t really—I didn’t really





say, Oh I’m going to do a PhD, I’m going to do a PhD, go into a PhD right from the beginning of undergrad. But as I was approaching the end of my undergraduate work, it was—I thought it would be something that would be worth doing. But I don’t remember having a real conscious thought past that. You know, I say to people, my whole career path is always been, what am I doing now? Without really necessarily thinking about what am I gonna be doing after this? And then when I get towards that end, then I think of the next thing. So I always say to them, whenever I give talks about my path, which I’ve done a lot, I say I think I’m just gonna hit a brick wall when I’m done. But then I don’t. Then the path just opens again. So that’s how—that’s the way it was. It wasn’t a deliberate thought at the beginning that I was going to do a PhD. But as I was getting close to my undergrad, I thought it would be something worthy to do. And again, but I didn’t think past that. You know, just to—am I going to become a faculty member, or a teacher, or am I going to go into biotech? So I chose— yeah. It wasn’t really anything fancy or really intellectual [laughter], about it.

	K:	And so you applied for your PhD?



	A:	Yeah, I applied, again in the U.K. you apply—normally, it may have changed, but at the time was directly to the program, directly to a professor,I mean. So I applied directly to the professor, interviewed with him, and then got accepted. So then you get admitted straight into the lab. There’s no rotations or anything like that. You just go into the lab and you start doing research. So I did mine at the Institute of Cancer Research, which was my mentor just moved from University of London, to the Royal Marsden Hospital, which was in Surrey. So it was just





move in, and so then I moved there with him. So that’s where I did my PhD, at the Royal Marsden Hospital, which is a cancer hospital in the U.K. And my research was on making anti-cancer—so I use my chemistry, which was organic, so I made anti-cancer drugs, and I looked at them with DNA, because I was interested in making drugs that would stop DNA replication in cancer cells. So yeah, that’s what I did.

	K:	So could you talk a little bit more about your PhD experience in general?



	A:	So yeah, there was—and again, and then thinking about mentoring, so my PhD mentor—I’m not going to tell you who it was—was a really crappy mentor. He was—actually no, maybe not. Maybe I shouldn’t say that. He was very hands-off, you know, let you do your thing. I think I met with him just a couple of times, but again there was a post-doc in the lab that was really good. He’s the one who took me—

[break in interview 19:17]



	A:	Yeah, so he’s the one who really—so the post-doc, kind of senior member of the lab, you know, like Antonette. So he’s the one who really mentored me for my PhD research, and again there was a lot of sort of peer mentoring. There was my husband and another student started at the lab in the same time, and we did a lot of support for each other just throughout the time. And there were, actually there were people from other groups that served as advisors, they would advise you on what you should be thinking about with regards to publications and going to conferences and things like that. So yes, I, again—when I look back on it, and I





say did I have any sort of minorities as mentors? The answer is no. Did I have any women? The answer is no. It was all men that served as my mentors, actually. And at the time I didn’t really think about it, because you know, I think you need to see a face in the mirror kind of thing. I would like to see myself when I look at my mentor, because I’m like, This person did it, therefore I can. That was never there when I was kind of going through the ranks. But, you know, but it’s fine, it was okay. I didn’t have to have it. So, yeah.

	K:	So after your PhD, how did you navigate those next steps?



	A:	So, actually I didn’t want to become a faculty member right after my PhD, because I wanted to—well, I guess let me back up. While I was doing my PhD I met my husband, and then we got married, and so we had to get a post-doc, right? So obviously we got married, the question now is, okay, how, very different fields. Well, pretty different fields. So the question was, so, where do we go? And I thought down the road, I’m going to have kids. I want to have a family. So I will follow you, right? Whatever you want to do, I will do it. I will go with you to wherever you want. And he wanted to come to the States. He wanted to go work in a structure biology lab. So he wanted to go to Purdue. So I said, okay. First of all, I said, I will try and find a job and I will come to America—at least be on the same side of the ocean [laughter]. Maybe not in the same lab, but we lucked out in that the person was going to hire him saying, you know, What does your wife do? And he said, Oh she’s a chemist, and blah, blah, blah, and he said, Okay, is she willing to learn something new? And I said, sure! I have got a PhD, I can do whatever, you know. I know how to learn, to do stuff. And so that’s what we did.





So I actually followed my husband when he did his post-doc, and then I got a post-doc with the same mentor. And I changed fields, completely. You know, I went from chemistry to doing virology. I started working on viruses—making them and trying to solve structures of viruses and doing structure function.

	K:	Did you enjoy that as well even though it wasn’t the field—



	M:	I did, I did. I mean because, again, the love of discovery, right? I could do something new. So there I was, doing something—I mean it wasn’t like, synthesizing stuff, but it was growing and making virus, so it wasn’t totally something different. But as I said, I feel that when you have a PhD you can do anything—at least that’s what I tell my students. You may do a PhD in a special field, but it gives you the ability to be able to learn something new. So yeah, I really did. I enjoyed it, and I say the irony was as an undergrad, I refused to do any kind of microbiology or virology or anything—sort of like, I don’t care. I don’t like it. I’m not going to do it. And then the irony was—so here I was, working on viruses, I thought it was really funny at the time. But yeah, I enjoyed it. It was good. Again, it was a really good mentor, so that was my first real mentor was my post-doc mentor. Again, a man, but he was great. He really taught me about science—more about science. He taught me to love science, and just enjoy it.

You know, do what you enjoy, and hopefully you’re going to get some great results. So that’s really where my passion for science really blossomed as a post- doc. And we were there—my husband and I were there at Purdue for six years.

You know, we went from the rank of post-doc to, guess, research scientist, to associate research scientist. So, you know, non-tenure track faculty while we





were there. And so he promoted us—I mean one thing he didn’t mentor us on was grant-writing, because obviously that’s important. He didn’t because he always said, Oh I’ve got loads of money, you don’t have to worry about it—which is good and bad. It was great we had loads of money, but it’s bad in that we didn’t learn how to really write grants at that point, which as a faculty member, you need to know. But yeah, so—but you know I really enjoyed my post-doc years. I had both my kids as a post-doc, so again, very understanding post-doc mentor because he allowed me the opportunity to do that. He didn’t freak out.

Obviously I reassured him that I wasn’t going to quit, I was going to keep working, you know, and I would—even when I was on maternity leave that I would keep abreast of what was going on, I would write papers, and all of those things, which were obviously important to him and me.

	K:	You said he instilled also a love of science—how did he? Was it just by like, being a model, or—

	M:	It just, yeah, exactly. Just by his passion for science. I mean he wanted to—he would talk to you for hours about whatever you were doing, because he was genuinely interested in the outcome of what you were doing. And he wanted you to publish, and he wasn’t going to hold anything back—you know people kind of, don’t want—the field I’m in, there are certain things that we generate and you sort of make it publically available. There are some labs that don’t want to do that, and he was always, yeah, we want to make everything publically available. And he’s just—I don’t know, there’s some people who just have a passion for something because they enjoy it, and that’s what he did—what he had. So for





me, I learnt that from him. And so I’m excited when I wake up and I’m going to go to work and do something, right? Whereas than, [mumbling] Oh I have to get up and go to work today, kind of attitude. Yep, yep. So that, to me, most of that was from him, I would say. Yep.

	K:	We had come across a study where Women of Color were interviewed, and a lot of them cited lack of an influential mentor, so that’s someone who actually is powerful within the department, can make decisions, as a barrier in career advancement.

	M:	Right.



	K:	I was wondering if that’s something you agree with, or that you’ve seen.



	M:	Well, um, I can’t say I’ve experienced that because my… so maybe I’ve not had to deal with that, because my PhD mentor was the director of our institute, right, where we were. My post-doc mentor, he wasn’t really a—he wasn’t a chair or anything, but he was a big person in the field.

	K:	Okay, yeah.



	M:	Right, I mean everybody knew him, didn’t matter where you were in the field of structure biology. So obviously, so now somebody says, Oh, Mavis comes from the Rossman group, people know who that is. So I’m sure that’s helped me, obviously, a lot. You know, while I was a post-doc, you know I took a job for a little bit in the U.K. as a research faculty. And in that position, there wasn’t really anybody like that who—although the chair was famous, but there wasn’t really a mentoring thing. I would say, since I’ve been here—you know, I came here as an





assistant professor, and I’ve had mentors here who—so my chair’s been my mentor, as well as the gentleman I just told you about who was known in the field. And so I’ve been mentored by people who, not so much that they have authority to make decisions about… well, other than my chair, but if we take my chair out of the equation, the other people are known in their field—put it that way. So yes, I guess that means that they were in places of authority because they—if you mention their name, people know them. But if people don’t necessarily know, at least here, that they’re my mentor, right? As a post-doc, you know, yeah, Mavis comes from Michael Rossman’s groups, that’s one thing.

But here, nobody says, Oh Nicholas Medicus, Mavis’s mentor. No, that’s not something that people talk about. But the people who have mentored me are—I would say they’re just knowledgeable, and they are known. So that’s been some years, so that’s been important. So I haven’t really experienced not being mentored by somebody who did not have—they didn’t, not necessarily, have decision power, but who did not have mentoring abilities. I don’t—

	K:	So I guess would you say that in addition to like, a mentor who is a good support—

	M:	Yeah.



	K:	—it’s also important to have a mentor who is in the power structure?



	M:	I don’t personally think you have to have that. I think you should have a mentor who is known and good in their field. I think that’s important, because then— because in science it’s important, whether or not we like it, pedigree is important.





Right? Where you’ve come from is important, because people want to know that you have been taught well. So I think you shouldn’t go to an obscure lab. But how do you make that decision? That’s the thing, you may not know. I mean hopefully you may well elevate that lab, right? By your actions and by your work. Or it could be a junior person, so. So I’m not saying don’t do that, but I think it is, you will do better if you go to a lab that has a reputation of producing good people, right? Good students, or good faculty. I think that’s important. But I don’t think they have to have decision-making power, necessarily, no.

	K:	So then can you talk about your transition to UF? Was that your next step from Purdue?

	M:	No, no. So from Purdue I went to the U.K. I went to the U.K., again following my husband because it was time for him to get a faculty position. It wasn’t really easy for him to get a faculty position in the States at the time. There wasn’t that many available, but then we were able to get a position at the University of Warwick, in the U.K. So we moved back to the U.K. I tell the story of you know, two of us came here with like, five suitcases, and we went back with a house and two kids, you know, kind of thing back to the U.K. So we did that, and that transition was hard for us, because we had lived here for six years. And so going back and fitting in into the sort of U.K. research culture was a little bit difficult for us. But you know, we did it for like, three years. And then we were recruited here by the dean of the College of Medicine at the time, Ken Burns. He knew of our work, he knew what I did, and he wanted somebody to come here to set up a





structure biology program. And so he recruited me. And then at that time my husband came with me.

	K:	So he followed you this—



	M:	He followed me this time, yeah. Both of us got the position, but yeah, but he followed me that time. Now whether or not it was a recruitment to try and get somebody of Color here, I don’t know. I didn’t really question it. So one thing that I’ve never actually tried to do is to say, Oh, you know, you need to expand representation so therefore you should have me, or something like that. I’ve never kind of tried to—not so much as push that card, but thought about. It’s like, if that’s why you’re recruiting me, great, I know that I fit, and I’m good at what I’m doing. So it doesn’t matter whatever your motives are, I’m going to come and I’m going to do what I do. So at the time I don’t know if that’s what was one of the reasons, but he told me he wanted somebody to do structure biology here, and so that’s why we came in, I think it was 1999, by Ken Burns, was the dean at the time. So that was actually not a bad transition. You know, we were able to come because I think we kind of knew kind of the lockstep of how things work in the States, and so then we came and sort of built a lab. And again, finding a—it was interesting because my mentors actually came to me, rather than me go out to seek them. And that was mostly—I say I was lucky because of what I do. The area of research we do, they felt was—they wanted to integrate into their research, and so they took me on. They took me under their wing, really. And then helped me—you know that gentleman you saw just now, helped me write my first set of grants. You know, he literally sat across from me where you’re





sitting now, and during the week, during the weekend, he would come in and he would help me. And I think that’s very important. I think because—you don’t know what it takes. And whatever may sound great to you may not sound great to somebody who has the experience and has served on these funding bodies. And for us as faculty members, that’s it, right? We have to get funding. And so I had the people who sat across from me and helped me with that. And I think that’s the most of the mentoring I got. I never got really mentored because of being a woman, or a minority, or anything like that. I got mentored as a junior faculty member who needed to get to certain—I needed to reach certain milestones to be able to get tenure. So I had my chair who sat me down and said, you know, To be able to get tenure, you have to be publish X number of papers, right? As senior author. And you need to get a grant, you need to have at least an R01, you need to have mentored a graduate student in the five years that you’re here. So that was good, so I knew what I needed to do. And then I had other people who said, Okay, you know. You need to write a grant, we’re really interested in what you’re doing. We think it could integrate with us. What do you need?—to be able to do that, and let’s put that down in a grant and write it. So that was very, very helpful. And then I had others who said, All right, you need to have a graduate student, you know? What do you need in a graduate student? And I’ve co-mentored, and I started by co-mentoring graduate students because that was the only way I can do it. But I should go back and say, as a post-doc, I mentored graduate students then. So I told you my post-doc mentor was really my inspiration. He would give us graduate students to mentor while we were post-





docs, to learn how to teach somebody else who is at that next level below you. So I had an idea of how to mentor a graduate student walking in. So I think that was really, really good. I think most labs do that now. You know, like my lab.

Crazy, all my graduate students mentor undergraduate students, and then the post-docs mentor them. So there’s a sort of level of mentoring that goes on in the lab already without me.

	K:	Do have to facilitate that or teach that, or is that something that happens naturally, the mentoring?

	M:	Um, I don’t really—I do kind of, for the research, I do kind of provide guides as to what people should do with their students. And yeah, so a little bit. But it has to kind of come naturally. And for me, teaching is knowing how to teach, you have to know what you’re teaching. So by doing that I think that forces them to make sure they understand, they could explain. But what I really like is the fact that they themselves extend that to other kind of mentoring. You know, they taught their students about their classes, applying for medical school or grad school or pharmacy school, you know, what to do, how to succeed, how to write their essays. They mentored them with their presentations. I make all the students do presentations, because I want them to be confident when they stand up and talk about their work. I have them write little reports for me, because I think it’s important to try and understand what you’re doing. So all of these things, I’ve told them, this is what’s needed. So then now the graduate students and the post- docs work with the undergrads and graduate students, depending on the level, to





make sure that happens. Because I think these are all the things you need for success. Yeah.

	K:	So when you had mentors, do you feel that they had the cultural competency, and they could deal with issues of gender or race where they were comfortable talking about them?

	M:	Umm…− I never faced that, so that’s what I was saying to you earlier. I never actually… not that I didn’t want to take into consideration, but I didn’t address it with them. Because for me, I just thought, you know, you have to treat me like any other person. But I guess the question is if I felt that I needed to talk, would I would have had that? The only thing that I’ve actually talked about, and I’ve talked about this to my chair, was the gender bias with women and recruitment issues, and salary issues. I don’t have those issues. You know, I’m not boasting, but I’m probably one of the highest paid people in my department, and that’s because I go in there and I said, Okay, I’m bringing in this much funding, this is what I should be paid, right? I’m not afraid to do that. But I’ve talked to them about the fact—and I’ve looked into this and I’ve talked to women about it. It’s the fact that women are always reticent about asking for what they need, right? We think we’re so lucky to get to where we are, that we don’t ask for what we need.

And it’s not a minority thing, it’s a women’s issues in our case. So I think that’s something that we need to address for all women, you know, Black, white, Latino, anything. You need to address it. And that’s where the bias comes from, because you get a faculty position, and you forget to ask for all your equipment you need. All the money you need to be able to hire a graduate student, a post-





doc, a technician, because without all of those things, you’re not going to do it. Because you’re expected to do all the other things, right? You’re expected to write papers, write grants, go to meetings, go to, blah, blah, blah. All these other things that a faculty member is expected to do. We kind of—and nobody’s told us about it, though, right? That’s one thing. Unless you’re observing your mentor when you’re a post-doc. So we forget that we need to do that ourselves, and we don’t ask for it. Because we’re like, we’re going to do it all. And so that’s where we fail as women. And you know, you look at it, and surveys have been done— women, it’s like they would have a third of the starter package of what a guy would get, because the guy will walk in there and say, Hey, you’re lucky to have me, what are you going to give me? The woman walks in and says, Oh, I’m so thankful for you to hire me, I’ll make do with whatever you give me. And I see this here—you know, there are two young faculty women that I’ve had to talk to, because they would come in so grateful for the fact that they’ve been given this faculty position, they don’t have what they need, and it’s really difficult to go back after-the-fact to get it. So I think that is our problem—not so much as talking about cultural bias or whatever, Women of Color, we just, women, don’t get what we need because we don’t ask for it. Because, you know, if you’ve been offered a job because you are good enough, you’ve shown that all of your qualifications match what they need, and they offer you the job, they’re not going to take it back because you say, Oh, you know, this is what I need. I mean, obviously it would have been good before you—a lot of the time after you’ve interviewed for a job, you will be asked to provide what you need. And we underestimate, all the





time. We will underestimate, because we’re thinking we’re going to make do. And I did that, too. When I first came here, I put together my list of what I needed, and sent it to the dean. Dean looks at it and is like, Hm, I think you need twice as much as that. I mean, but I was lucky, right? Because I had a dean who had my back, and said, I want this woman to succeed because I’m bringing her in. And he gave me double. Whereas, I’m telling you, a lot of other people will say, Oh my gosh, that’s what she’s asking for? Sure! Right? Because, and they know it’s not enough, and they won’t give you more. Because they’re not going to give you more, so you have to ask for it. And I think that’s where our problem lies—we don’t ask. And this is across the board, it’s so crazy, we just don’t ask for it. So that needs to be changed, that really needs to change. And that we should know our value, I guess, our power, and what we could do. Because we could do anything, right? And we do it, most likely better, and yet we feel that we could do it for less. But we can’t, then we fail, because we’ve not been able to get what we needed, and we fail. And at that point, it’s too late. So—

	H:	So it sounds like that’s part of your role as a mentor. M:	Yeah.

	H:	But was that necessarily—was that something you kind of just learned on your own from experience?

	M:	Yeah, that’s something I learned. And I learned it because again, I’m surrounded by men who are doing this, you know. And I know that—and one of the things that’s revealing is that when we write grants, everybody’s salary is put on there,





and I will look at the salary, and I was like, Oh my God, this person doesn’t even have the grants that I have, and yet they’re earning thirty thousand dollars more than I am, you know, kind of thing. And that kind of opened my eyes to think, wow. And again, it’s because, They offered me a job! I’m so excited, I’m going to take it! I’m not going to say, No, you should actually be paying me more. Yeah, so I did. You learn it as you go along, and so then you start hoping to impart that knowledge to the women that are coming up, just because it’s our natural instinct is to behave like that. You know, we just—I don’t know, I don’t know what it is, but it’s just native to us. It’s not a bad thing, it’s just what we do. So yes, I think I’ve learned it, and I realize though, but I’ve learned it, but I’ve been taught it by men, I have to say. Because I know they ask for what they need. And by observing them, I’m like, I need to ask for what I need. So, but if you don’t have that exposure, you know, then I guess you wouldn’t do it. And I also think that we as Women of Color shouldn’t just say, Oh, I’m going to take what I’m given, because I’m going to take what I’m given because that’s what there is, as it were. We should say, we should just look around and see what other people are doing, what other people have, and what do we—and talk to people. You know, what do I need? What did you ask for? You could say—go to a male colleague, or somebody, What did you ask for when you came? They will tell you. They’re not going to not tell you, right? And based on somebody who is doing something similar to what you’re doing, you could say, you know, what did you need to set this up? Because that’s what I’m going to need. So yeah, I’ve learned it, but I’ve learned it by observing other people. And then you learn it, but then as I said,





there’s articles out there written on this stuff about decision-making or why we fail. Because of that—whether or not, but it’s mostly related to women, why we fail.

	K:	Are there any other obstacles, do you think, for women—whether like in work outside of work, for having a career in science?

	M:	Well obviously the first obstacle is having kids, right? So you—well, it’s not an obstacle. I hope my husband doesn’t here that [laughter]. If somebody said, What is your weakness, to somebody, and they said, My family… No my family is not a weakness, my kids are all grown up. But I think that’s the first, challenge, I should call it, not an obstacle. Because you are going to take the time off. You are going to have kids, if you know, if that’s what you want, if you’re a family person. And so then that slows you down, you know you’re going to need to have a very, very understanding chair as a faculty member, because you are going to want your kids to do stuff after school. So, I’ll give you my example. I came here, I had a

six-and-a-half-year-old, and an eigth-and-a-half-year-old when I became a faculty member here. My daughter was in dance and ballet, my son was in karate and soccer, right? Different ends of town, of course. So every day at three o’clock— not everyday—Monday, Wednesday, Friday, three o’clock, I had to leave, because I had to pick up my daughter from school, take her to dance, pick up my son from school, take him to karate. You know? Go pick her up, take her here.

Go pick him up and take him—no, so, I did this five-hour thing, you know, from three to eight, three days a week. I was running my kids around, right? So my chair had to understand that I was not going to go to the four o’clock seminar,





because I’m not there. But I also had to make him aware that while I’m sitting watching karate, I will be writing a paper, or will be reading a paper. You know? So took my computer with me. We spend a lot of time at Books-a-Million, you know, when we’re waiting for the other person, we’ll be there, reading, or having the—whatever, just. So you have to make it work. So it’s not easy, you can’t say, Oh, I’m going to leave at three, and I’m not going to work again, right? Three days a week as a faculty member. You will not make it. All you—at least I don’t think, you can’t say, Oh well, I’m a faculty member, my kids are just going to stay in afterschool until six or seven o’clock every day, and then I’ll pick them up. I mean you could do that, but you know, what are your kids going to think about it? I mean, this is my personal opinion, right? I’m not saying everybody needs to do this. But anyway, so that’s the first challenge, is family, right. Being able to navigate being a junior faculty, because that’s where it’s most important. That’s when, if you have kids, they’re gonna be young. You know, being able to do what your kids need socially to grow, right? And I did. I had a chair who was very understanding, and I was able to do that, right? So then the next thing, especially for women of color, is other family, extended family, right? Having—and I didn’t have that because I’m here, I mean only occasion—my family’s in the U.K.—only occasionally have we had to go there and do stuff. But if you have family here, there are family obligations. You know, you need to go look after grandma, or you need to look after Grandad. Which is fine, it’s a family thing, you should do it. But that’s going to be a challenge to take you away, right? From whatever you need to do when you’re—because those first five years as a faculty member is





hard. And then, you know, and so—and for my husband and I, we were in it at the same time. So you got two crazy people trying to get tenure—it’s really hard. So then, so that’s okay when you have a husband who is a scientist. Now what happens when you’re husband’s not a scientist? Right? They don’t understand. Because they go to work at nine, they come back at five—Why are you not at home? Why are you having to go back to the lab to finish your experiment, you know? Why can’t you have somebody else do that? Why—you know, so there’s all these “whys.” Why isn’t dinner ready? Why am I having to go pick up the kids? Why—so then this becomes another challenge. So I think, and that’s just because, I mean the roles are changing. You’re getting a lot of dads who are now either stay-at-home or looking after the kids, but when I was going through this, that wasn’t kind of the case. But obviously I have my husband understood because he’s a scientist himself. But I was still the person who was running around like a crazy person for five hours a day, right? Because I felt that was my role. And I wanted to do it because it was my kids, you know, kind of thing. So I think those are the challenges, and again it doesn’t matter if you’re a Woman of Color or not. My thing is it’s a woman’s issue. But if you have a really understanding chair, it’s doable. And I did. You know, Bert Flanegan, he’s awesome. He’s a family person, and he totally stood by me and said, Mavis, I understand you have to do these things, go for it. As long as you get your papers published, you try and get your grants done, you know, then I can support you.

So I think it’s a challenge. It’s a lot of work. But you can’t just—it doesn’t come easy. You can’t just go home and sit for the evening, you know. You have to go





home, get your kids ready for bed, and you have to work for another two hours a day if you want to make it. So, I think it’s just a lot of work. Yeah.

	K:	So how do you think the academy can—or even specifically university, can better reinforce the pipeline for underrepresented people in academic research?

	M:	So, I mean obviously it would be nice. Again, I’ve worked with [inaudible 53:50] a little bit. It’d be nice if the pipeline started earlier, of course, right? Middle school, even. Middle school, get them interested in science. We have faculty members who do a lot of science club and bring them in, and we get to see definitely underrepresented minorities here at the club. But when they come here, I think what needs to be done, and UF is doing it actually, UF has a committee that’s really trying to increase the number of minority students in our program. I used to serve on that committee, I had to get out of it because I got sick, and it wasn’t easy for me to navigate. But so they look at the packets for the minority students and really interact with them to sort of say to them, Hey this is an environment that’s welcoming to you at UF, you know, come here. So UF is working, I think, to—I don’t know how successful they’ve been, but I think they are working to try and achieve that. I think one thing that needs to be done though, even at that level, is not to treat underrepresented students as second- tier, or second-class citizens. And, unfortunately, I think that can happen, right? I know the people in the committee I was on, that was one thing that we discussed. It’s like, don’t say, Oh yes, because they’re underrepresented, it’s okay to admit a student whom you don’t think is qualified for the program.

Because you’ll be setting them up to fail, and then they’ll be like, Oh wow, we





should never have done that in the first place, kind of attitude, right? So—but there are definitely going to be students who are very well qualified for the program, so then you really work hard to get them here. So I think that’s what they need to do, and I believe they’re trying to do that. As I said, how successful they are, I don’t know. I don’t know what the current BPMS or whatever our new program. I don’t what the current percentage is for underrepresented minorities and whether or not it’s gone up, have no idea. I haven’t really followed. But I know that at least from a couple of years ago, there was a real push to do this, to get the students to—at least to come in the first place. Then once they have come, you know they have—they get together once a month, I think, there’s a potluck dinner that they have where they get to meet. So again, remember I said about the face in the mirror, like you see other people like you thriving, to the senior students as well as junior students get together, and they get to talk about their research, and they get to hear about different things, and so they get excited about yeah, I can do this, too. So I think that they’re definitely trying to do that. And so I think those are good things. Then of course you need to make lab environments friendly and welcoming for students to feel comfortable.

Unfortunately, there are some labs in the College of Medicine where students will not feel comfortable, because they walk in and they don’t see any minority person in the room, or it’s all Asian students in the room, or—and they’ll be like, Oh, well, you know maybe I won’t be able to get on here. That may not be necessarily the case. Also in that situation, they have to be—the mentor has to be able to sit them down and say, Hey, you know, do you have any concerns?





And if they say, Yes, then you know, then be able to discuss it. So with my students, and obviously Hazel was one of my first graduate students, and then Antonette was my student, and Nikia, there’s another African-American student in there in my lab. I never actually sat with them and say, Hey, you’re in my lab because I’m a minority. I never did that, never had that conversation with them. Because I’m gonna beat you just like I beat the others [laughter] you know? I’m not going to give you any special treatments or anything, because I want you to stand up and just be as tall as everyone. I’m not going to say, Oh you’re in my lab because you’re a minority, or anything like that. So I never had that attitude at all. But they know that it’s okay, it’s okay to be a minority, because they know I’m going to make them just as strong as anyone else. And I’m not going to let anyone think of them as not being the best, or being as good as anyone else out there, right? So that’s my philosophy and the way I run my lab. So I don’t know if they know my philosophy, or have heard me, or why, but you know my husband and I tend to attract minority students. So he has two in his lab right now. And maybe they see me and they say, Oh you know, this is an environment that we can work in with him, because it’s okay. But I don’t think they necessarily feel that way with everyone. So yeah, I think it’s, as I said, there’s three levels: the recruitment, it’s with this committee to set up for diversity students, I think that really help, and then once they get into lab, make it very welcoming. And mentor them just the same way as you would mentor anyone else for success. Make sure they work hard, publish their papers, teach them how to write grants, take them to conferences where they get to see their peers and see what everyone—





what’s going on. Just make the environment such that they’re going to really be excited about science. I think that’s what it takes, really. Because if it’s a chore, they’re not going to do—there’s just not a lot of money in science, at least not— you know, you’re better off going to medical school, maybe, if you’re in it for the money. So I think we just need to make them get to the point where they just love science, and like it, and see the value in it, really, and be able to deal with all the family, all the family pressures that come with it. Because I do believe underrepresented students go for a lot more stress with family. There’s just—I don’t know, there’s just more expectations or maybe, I don’t know what it is, but it feels different. If my students, I feel that it’s different for them. So, yeah.

	K:	Do you have any other thoughts on mentorship? So, so far you’ve mentioned making it fun for them, and also you had mentioned the environment, like having an open environment. I was wondering if you had any more thoughts on what the model of mentorship is?

	M:	Yeah, so for me, for my graduate students and post-doc, I mentor—you know, different levels of mentoring. I, obviously want to provide them—the first thing I do is talk to them when they come in, about their research interests, right? So research interests, I matched them with their research interest in lab, so I think that’s important with the excitement about science. Make sure that they have all the resources they need, as best as I can. Make sure that they attend conferences, right, to get excited about science. Make sure that they are themselves become mentors. Right? I think that’s important. Make sure I assign them a student when they’re ready to mentor, and then talk to them a little bit





about that process. And then hopefully mentor them through, you know, scientific success—mentor them through writing papers and hopefully writing a grant or, you know, all of that is what I do as graduate student. As post-docs, it’s a little bit different in that I expect them to be more independent, on their own. So I try to give them independence because this is where they’re going to learn to become faculty members. But then I also give them students that they need to supervise and mentor. So, and then on a personal level, you know I try not to—I’m English, even though I’m African, I am English. So, but I still want to support them in any way that I can, personally. You know, if they have problems at home, make sure you understand. Obviously, you know, hopefully nobody gets sick. But you just have to be there in the lab, as well as outside the lab—I take my students to conferences, and we do stuff. You know, we would take an extra week and have gone to Spain, take an extra week and go around. You know, just different places. Just be a person with them, I think is very important. Just, you know, have fun with them in the lab. Have fun with them outside the lab. I think for me those are all part of mentoring, at least for my students. I get to mentor a lot of other junior faculty members, and I really just try to tell them and get them to really know what they want. You know, what they want to achieve, and then talk about how do we think we could achieve this? You know, I’ve mentored people through writing their first grants, because again, play it forward, right? My motto is you have to play it forward. I feel that people did it for me, now I have to be doing it. Not have to, but I want to be doing it for other people. So I think that’s very important. So there’s mentoring on all different levels. And in our lab it starts





from high school and goes all the way to junior faculty members. So, for me I mentor because I’m passionate about science, and that’s really where it starts. I think that my mentees from—have all left, you know on a weekly basis I hear from them. And they call me, Oh, I’m thinking about this, what should I do, you know? So I still get all of that. And it’s great. You know I like to be able to talk to them, but then hopefully some of them will start becoming mentors themselves with their own labs. And I like to think that they could still call me and talk to me about what they’re doing. So yeah, this is a lifetime commitment, you know it doesn’t stop when they walk out the door. You know it continues—you know, I’ve had students who left, I don’t know, almost ten years ago or more, and I still, every now and then, Hey how are you doing? Do you have a minute? [Laughter] You know, to talk, kind of thing. And that’s fun, that’s great.

	K:	You had mentioned your chair was very supportive— M:	Yep.

	K:	—with your role as a mother. M:	Yep.

	K:	Is there anything else besides the supportive chair that you think would help support women who choose to have a family?

	M:	Um, as in here? I don’t know. I think that, at least for success as a faculty, having a supportive chair is the most important thing. Having the understanding of the other faculty members, but you know it’s different. I think, obviously, male faculty members haven’t had that experience, but the female ones have. And a lot of





them are very understanding of you. So I think that’s good. Whether or not there’s something that could be done at the college level, I don’t know, really.

	K:	Yeah, okay.



	M:	I don’t really think so. You know, there’s obviously the tenure clock, I think could be changed or moved if you have kids and you have to have time off. I think that’s something that’s done at the college level. You know, if you had to have a year off or something, and you haven’t got tenure yet, I think the time could be moved for when you have to go up. So I think those are in place already, to be able to do that. So I think that would be helpful, obviously, to faculty that have kids. But I mean I think my department is very good at that. I can’t tell you about all the other departments, and I’m only the Person of Color, I think, in my department. I don’t know if there’s—not that I don’t know, I don’t, obviously people can identify as whatever they want, so, but I think I’m the only person in my department. But I don’t think my chair really—I mean he does talk to me about underrepresented minorities and trying to improve the number in the department. Because I think it’s a college-wide push that I kind of been informed, but again I don’t know what they are doing to support that. I mean nobody’s come up to me and said, Hey, you know what, I’ll give you more money if you— to be able to support another person. Nobody’s come and told me that. If they did, that would be awesome [laughter]. But they haven’t. So I’m not quite sure what’s been done, but I know it gets discussed. But I don’t know, and apparently there’s not a lot of—apparently I may be the only Woman of Color that’s become a full professor in the College of Medicine for a while, which is scary to me. I did





not know that. So, yeah. That’s really not good. Then there’s not a lot of us around. Again, that’s because of the pipeline, right? The pipeline is not there to support it. And I think there needs to be a better pipeline to support it, for sure.

	H:	You said one of the issues within that pipeline was when students come here and then start working in labs, and are underrepresented, and that makes them kind of unwelcoming, like the lab unwelcoming or—?

	M:	No, I’m just saying I don’t, no. Definitely not. I have no experience of that, I’m just saying that they may not go into a lab and not feel—so it depends on the lab, right? If you walk into a lab and you only see Chinese people, as an example. I mean I’m not being racist or anything. You may think, Oh, why? Why isn’t there anybody else in here other than this? And I know I’ve had students who went to rotate in such labs, and they’re like, Well, I can’t communicate because everybody is speaking Chinese, right?

	H:	Mm, it’s the language.



	M:	So it’s not so much—I don’t know what the environment would be, but I just think, again, you have to kind of see other people that are either like you or at least diverse. I mean you walk into my lab and it’s just—people from everywhere, really. I’ve got people—somebody from Hungary, I’ve got an Indian, I’ve got obviously Caribbean. I’ve just, everywhere. Hispanic. You walk in and it doesn’t matter who you are, or what you look like. It’s like everything is here. I don’t know how many labs are like that, but it’s probably improving, but there’s not many labs that are like that. And it could be just because the pipeline is not there to





feed into it. A lot of minorities will go into—there’s probably more of them going to med school, I would say, than going to grad school. I don’t think we have the ten percent, I don’t know. You’d have to find out the numbers, really. And you need to know if the numbers are increasing percentage-wise for how many underrepresented are in the program. I don’t know. I could tell you that they started doing this a while ago. But no, I’m not saying it’s unwelcoming, it’s just— it’s just your comfort level, right? So, may not be there if you don’t—so you know, if we have very diverse labs, then it doesn’t matter which lab you’re going to. You can find your research interests and then go into that lab, and you’ll feel comfortable. But if you walk into a lab and, even if it’s your research interests, and you don’t feel like you can communicate because the choices are being so, sort of limited, to a certain group of people, then it’s hard to integrate.

	K:	When you were studying, were there ever any labs as diverse as the one that you have?

	M:	I mean I would say my post-doc lab was. Yeah, it was an international lab. There were people from all over the place. And that was great. Literally mostly European, and I mean there was American people from all over America as well. So, yeah.

	K:	I think that’s it for our questions. I don’t know if you had any more.



	H:	Um, just if you could speak a little bit about the differences in the culture as far as in the U.K. and here, like in the academic environment you were in. You





mentioned it was a little different, and harder to even like reintegrate back into the U.K.

	M:	Yeah, yeah. Oh, it was, for me it was hard. Just because of sexism, actually. At least back then. You know, things have probably changed. We’re talking, you know, 1995, so this was over twenty-something years ago. I’m showing you my age, but that’s okay. So it was sexism, for me, was hard. Because, and this was in an academic environment. Obviously the science was my science. It didn’t matter who was there. Again, I would try to get what we needed for our science, didn’t quite work out as well as we wanted. But I would have the chair—[laughter] classic. If I was with Rob, and they were talking to me, but they were talking to us, they would never look at me.

	H:	Mhm, yeah.



	M:	They would talk directly at him all the time, and they wouldn’t look at me. And so I felt I should be not even there. It was so bad. I felt so bad. I mean it’s like, is it because I’m a Black person, is it because I’m a woman? What is it? You know?

	H:	This was worst in England?



	M:	Oh no this was in England. Not here. Not here, no, no. Not here. No that never—I don’t think that ever happened here. Here the only thing that I remember was a faculty member saying to me, Oh well we have to make amends because of slavery. You know. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. They said that to me. I was like, Okay [laughter]. I’m not going to say anything, I’m just going to get up and go. I was





like, Really? You know, you always that it’s like, Oh well it’s a good thing you’re here, we have to make amends because of slavery.

	K:	Oh no.



	H:	When was this?



	M:	This was earlier on when I was here. H:	Okay.

	M:	And this is a faculty member that’s still here in my department, and yeah, so you can imagine how I felt when they said that. I was like, and but you know, in a way, it’s good and bad. Because it just said to me, Oh my God, you have to work that much harder, you know? To prove yourself. So, and that’s what I felt. It’s like, Oh it’s good you’re here, we have to make amends because—yeah. But you know, so that’s what I faced here. But not very often. But in England it was sexism that I just didn’t like in science. Men were always better than the women, and a lot of the older men felt women shouldn’t even be there, you know, they should be home raising the kids. And so that was bad. But that may have changed, a lot. But twenty years ago, that’s the way it was. I don’t think it was that here. I mean my post-doc mentor never treated me that way, and when I got here, as I said, nobody really treated me that way. It was just a little bit of racism was the problem. I mean I felt racism outside of here. We went to church and I would feel racism from the people in the church. I was like, How could this be?

This is a church. You know? And I would see people from my church outside and they wouldn’t even look at me. I’d be like—anyway, so I stopped going.





	H:	This was in Gainesville?



	M:	Yeah, this was in Gainesville and in Indiana. Well obviously, Indiana you know, maybe it’s not a surprise. But yeah, a little bit here. But you know, so yeah. I would say there’s not that much racism in the U.K., I guess because they don’t have the history of slavery, so it’s really as I said, just sexism. But here there’s a history of racism and people who feel the underrepresented minorities are inferior to them, including in academia. I think that’s there, because I’ve heard comments, and as I’ve said, when I served on the committees, on the graduate committees say, Oh well yes, we have to interview them, or we have to accept them because they’re underrepresented, even if their grades weren’t good enough. And I would say, there’s a lot of people here whose grades are good enough that we just interview and accept—and even if you thought that, don’t say it, you know, with me in the room. You know, don’t say it. Don’t say it, Oh we have to bend our expectations, lower our expectations because they’re underrepresented. So, sad, but there are people who think that way, and still.

	H:	But the diversity committee didn’t necessarily work that way?



	M:	Oh, no, no. The diversity committee, no. That was the first thing that we talked about. Was no, it’s like no, you cannot start that way, because as I said, if you really think somebody—you know there’s going to be people not suitable, whether you’re Black, white, whatever. There’s gonna be people. If you have somebody who you really believe is not suitable, you are setting them up for failure. You really are. They’re not going to make it just because you bring them in. Actually, maybe I’m wrong. Maybe there will be one or two that make it. But if





you—and if you tell them that, if you tell them, Oh yes, we’re recruiting you, or we’re putting you into our program because you’re underrepresented, you know—

	H:	I would hope that would not be communicated [laughter].



	M:	Right, no, no. I don’t think—hopefully those were not. But you know I think that actually—well, maybe not. But I don’t know if Antonette told you, but I remember having a conversation with her, which she’ll say, What? They will do that? You know, they will give me blah, blah, blah because I’m an underrepresented minority, and they will think just because of that, if they think I’m not good enough they will do that? I was like, yeah, they do that for people. And she’s like, Woah, and I go, Yeah, it happens. It happens. I mean so obviously there are things that you should do to make sure you increase participation, but you cannot set the person up for failure, that’s my bottom line—is to bring somebody in and make sure you’re that you’re gonna give them what they need to succeed. Make sure that they have the ability to succeed. Because if not, you’re just going to propagate whatever stereotype you started off with. Right? You’re going, Oh, we gave them a chance, Oh, we should have known, kind of thing. And again, that’s the sad thing, is that, as a Black woman, I have this BIG responsibility that I think I have. Because I’m representing all my gender and my race in everything I do, right? If I do something bad, it’s Black people, you know, just doing something bad. And not always all women, but it’s just—and it’s just something that we have because of the stereotype that’s out there. It’s sad, but it’s true. It’d be nice if we didn’t have it, but, I’m pretty sure you would find this out from a lot of people that





you interview, that they just feel responsible for representing all the time, which is sad, but yeah.

	K:	Did you have any other thoughts that you wanted to share?



	M:	No, I think that’s it. I think you’ve—you know we’ve exhausted how I feel. You know how I feel about this whole thing, right? So, but I have to tell you, for me, the bottom line is women need to just be, we just need to be better representing ourselves. I think that’s really my thing, whether you’re underrepresented or not. I think all of us suffer from this—and we do need good mentoring. I think it doesn’t matter who mentors you. It doesn’t have to be a woman, it doesn’t have to be an underrepresented. If it is, great for you if they’re good, you know? But I never— well, I couldn’t seek one out because there’s none in my field, right? So I couldn’t go seek out, say an underrepresented mentor. And I didn’t think that I needed to, but I did need mentors, for sure. I think it’s very important earlier on to get a good mentor. So that’s what I was saying.

	K:	All right, thank you so much for your— M:	Yeah, absolutely.





	Transcribed by:	Holland Hall, February 13, 2018 Audio Edited by:	Charity Kelly, August 12, 2019