AAHP 452; McDougal; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 452 Fannie McDougal African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Vickie Oldham on August 10, 2015 50 minutes | 32 pages



Abstract: Ms. Fannie McDougal moved to Overtown, Florida when she was fifteen years old. She recalls the Black owned businesses in the area and the things she was able to do for recreation and entertainment. She reflects on not liking Booker High School and moving to Georgia to attend a private boarding school to play basketball. While she did become a nurse, she eventually decided to pursue cosmetology and opened a hair salon back in Sarasota, Florida. She reflects on the customers she had and the role her salon played in the community. She also discusses desegregating different businesses in the area and the strength of the NAACP in the area.



Keywords: [Newtown, Florida; Overtown, Florida; Black business owners; Desegregation; African American History]



Standards:

	SS.912.A.7.5 Social activism

	SS.912.A.5.7 National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP)





































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 452 (Newton Oral History Project) Interviewee: Fannie McDougal Interviewer: Vickie Oldham

Date: August 10, 2015



	O:	Give me your name.



	M:	My name is Dr. Fannie McDougal.



	O:	And Dr. McDougal, when did you come to Sarasota? What year and why?



	M:	Moved to Sarasota in 1947 and we just wondered if my parents stayed so long and they parents in Florida was doing so well, they thought that they would like to move to Florida.

	O:	Your relatives were doing well?



	M:	Yeah, uncles and aunts and everything here. O:	What were they doing here?

	M:	Well, they had two uncles. One uncle was a chef cook in the Golf coast out there, Jones Golf coast.

	O:	Bobby Jones?



	M:	Mmhm. And the other uncle was a chef cook in Bradenton, Florida. And so the hotel—I think it was a Marriott hotel where he was chef cook at.

	O:	Okay—



	M:	And both of them had been in the service, in the army. And they moved back to Sarasota and then they got they jobs here in Sarasota.

	O:	And so you all came to Sarasota. You were only how old? M:	I was fifteen years old.

	O:	What do you remember about the Black community and what it looked like? M:	I remember Overtown and Newtown. [Laughter]

	M:	Overtown is where—let’s see, the movies used to be. There was a picture a show





there on Fifth Street, I believe it was, and then there was a big semi-church on the right hand side. And then there was a big store clothing store, it was on the left hand side and they had some of everything in there. They had clothes, shoes, bags, anything you wanted to buy. [Laughter]

	M:	And I don’t remember the name, but anyway, I know there was this large clothing store right there off Twelfth Street with the ice house. And then there was a big sign where Bethlehem Baptist Church was, the oldest church in Sarasota.

[Cameraman stating that they need to stop the interview]



	O:	Yeah, we’re gonna ask them—Ok, tell me about Overtown. You were beginning to tell me about the Bethlehem Church. What else was all around there?

	M:	Bethlehem Baptist Church, which I was a member of Bethlehem. A little further from Bethlehem there was a fish market and what we call a neighborhood fish market; everybody bought their fish there. And then down from the fish market there was Sebora bar, it was a big bar here in town. And everybody come from Tampa, St. Pete, Arcadia, Fort Myers to that bar. If you said, Sebora Bar in Sarasota, Florida—Bill Johnson was there owner—everybody knew, out of town and in town. [Laughter]

	O:	Did they bring some groups, some musical groups through there? Who do you remember?

	M:	I remember B.B. King, he came there. It was called The Dance Land that was across the railroad track. And let me see who else—I can't recall but anyway, they brought in quite a few peoples from Tampa and the little local bands, Tampa and St. Pete. I don’t remember all names, now it’s been so long, but we had about





three bands. I think one from St. Pete would come over, then one from Tampa, then it was a group from Fort Myers. And we got a big building across track called The Dance Land and that’s where we had dances at.

	O:	Oh, my goodness. We’ll have to talk more about Dance Land. But where did you all live?

	M:	Oh, we lived at what we call Overtown. O:	You lived there?

	M:	Mmhm. Overtown was a—well, we in Newtown, this was Newtown. O:	Right, so what street?

	M:	Fifth Street, it had the Palms Hotel. You remember the Palm Hotel off of Fifth Street there, Overtown?

	O:	Was it Black owned?



	M:	Yeah, Frank Davis. Well, he didn’t own it, but he rented it from some guy downtown and I can’t remember his name either. But he was there for a long, long many years, Frank Davis was.

	O:	And who were the people that stayed in that hotel?



	M:	People from out of town that took vacations and then— O:	African Americans?

	M:	Mmhm.



	O:	Only?



	M:	Only—Oh, well, they had a few others. O:	Oh, ok. It was integrated then?

	M:	Integrated.





	O:	At this time?



	M:	At that time, uh-huh. But, Frank Davis, he finally sold it. Well he didn’t sell it, he leased it out and then he left and went—sort of retired I believe. He sort of retired and went back over on Fifth Street. That was near the cross street from the picture show, we call the movies and some would call it a picture show. [Laughter]

	O:	Right! So, you know, Fannie, so you came at fifteen. Did you go to school here?



	M:	Oh, yeah. We moved here, I was fifteen and I was in the seventh grade. They had just moved the school from Overtown out here in Newtown, this was Newtown, called Booker High. And I went to Booker High from the seventh grade to the eighth grade and then I left and went to private school, boarding school. I didn’t like Booker High.

[Laughter]



	O:	You went to private boarding school where?



	M:	College Hill, Georgia. That’s about 150 miles from Atlanta, Georgia. And I stayed there two years and I graduated in two years.

	O:	That had to be kind of expensive, huh?



	M:	Well, in the day. I don’t know what—my parents made money. My mother, she was a seamstress, she had a dress shop.

	O:	In Overtown?



	M:	Overtown, Mmhm. O:	A Seamstress.

	M:	Mmhm.



	O:	So she would make clothes?





	M:	She would make clothes and she would make curtains and the bed spreads to match. And she made church robes, uh-huh. She had a shop, where we call Overtown, that’s where she had a shop at.

	O	What was the name of her shop?



	M	Malcolm’s. She was Brenda Malcolm. She named it Malcolm’s Shop, Seamstress Shop.

	O	What did your dad do?



	M	My dad, he worked at the hospital. O	Sarasota Memorial?

	M	Sarasota Memorial, uh-huh. O	What did he do there?

	M	He rolled these sick peoples in and out the operating room, to the recovering room.

	O	Okay.



	M	And when they recovered, the nurses would move them in they rooms where they was supposed to be at until maybe three days or a week, and some of them was two weeks. All depends on what the operation was, what kind of operation that they had.

	O	I see. Now, didn’t go to Booker. Tell me why that didn’t work out? M	Booker?

	O	Mmhm.



	M	I just did not like Booker High. O	It was too small? It was too—





	M	I wasn’t too small, but they didn’t have a lot going on there. And I was a great big basketball player.

[Laughter]



	O	Did you really?



	M	Yeah. And I was a little majorette. I did the little dances and it was a group of us, called the Majorettes.

	O	Oh, okay.



	M	And we had white, short pleated skirts, gold jackets and the white boots. O	Was this at your boarding school?

	M	No, this was here in Sarasota. O	Oh, this was at Booker?

	M	Mmhm



	O	Oh, okay.



	M	But when I went to boarding school, I played basketball there but we didn’t have a football team at that time. We had a baseball team.

	O	How long did you stay at the boarding school? M	Two years, I graduated.

	O	From high school? M	From high school.

	O	Okay and then what?



M  And then after I graduated I thought I wanted to be a RN nurse. I went back to Atlanta, Georgia to—let’s see what the name of that school, nursing school. It was—it slipped my mind, but I’ll just say nursing school.





	O	Mmhm. That’ll be fine.



	M	Uh-huh. And I got my RN license. I stayed with my aunt, I had a aunt there. In fact, all my family practically was there in Atlanta anyway. And after I got my degree I came to Sarasota and I started to work. I think I worked out there in Wilhelm Nursing Home. I was a nurse there for a good, good while. Then I decided I wanted to be a cosmetologist.

	O	You changed your mind, why? M	I changed my mind.

	O	Why?



	M	I didn’t like it as well as I thought I was gonna like it. [Laughter]

	O	You didn’t want to administer shots? M	No!

[Laughter]



	M	Every time, oh, they starting screaming, “Don’t give me no shot! All right you gonna give me a shot?”

[Laughter]



	M	Then start moving. They’d hide from you. You had to keep your eyes on them, watching and do your paperwork.

[Laughter]



	O	So, you changed to be a hairstylist?



	M	As a hairstylist, I had a friend and we always liked to do what one another do. And she was going to St. Pete to taking it up and I’d say, well, I think I’ll take it up too.





And they had a nurse’s degree too, you could get a nurse degree. I think it was a cosmetology and the nursing, those right together. So I went on over, she was there before I was, I think she was there maybe about three or four months. And then I left Sarasota and went over and she was a little so. So we came out about the same time. I think she was out like about three month before I got out and then we decided we would come back to Sarasota and work.

	O	Is that when you opened up your salon? M	That’s when I opened up my salon.

	O	Where was your salon then—



	M	And at that time, probably you believe it, it’s still there, across the street. Do you remember where your grandmother lived at? Your grandmother lived—

	O	At Orange and Thirty-fifth?



	M	Uh-uh she didn't live on Thirty-fifth. You know thirty-fifth street? O	Thirty-fifth and Orange?

	M	No, Thirty-fifth—My shop was Goodrich Avenue, where I’m at now. O	Oh, okay, yes. That’s where you opened up first?

	M	First, Mmhm. And that’s where my shop at. O	Still today?

	M	Still today, Mmhm.



	O	Okay, so tell me about some of the ladies who’s hair you did. M	Okay—

	O	The whole community, probably.



	M	The whole community. I did Bradenton. They’d come down from Bradenton to get





their hair did and they’d come from Palmetto, Florida to get their hair did; which I think about ten or fifteen miles from here. And then Rubonia, Florida, they came out of Rubonia, Florida. Rubonia and Bradenton, Palmetto they sit right together.

O   Mmhm.



M  And they would drive, carpool cars. Maybe four or five would come in a car and get their hair did like on a Wednesday or Thursday. Weekend, I didn’t have nothing but customers from Bradenton and Sarasota.

O   You ran it by yourself? Or did you several bowls in there?



	M	Unh-uh. I just had one bowl and I had—you know the beauty mirrors and the dressers where you keep your supplies and keep your working tools and then you had a chair for your customer to sit down in. And you had a chair so when you got tired you could sit on a stool and still work and do hair. [Laughter]

	O	Wow. But, I’m sure you had customers backed up.



	M	I had them backed. They was sitting on the porch and they was sitting in the beauty shop. I think I had two big long sofas, which I got one sofa still in there. And I had, you know how them old fashioned straight chairs.

[Laughter]



	M	I had about five or six of those sitting around. [Laughter]

	O	Tell me what you would do to Black women’s hair back then.



M  Well, back in the day we used the hot comb, which it was the straightening comb. And you had some irons, curling irons, they was hot. And you have a stove, that’s for heating up your tools enough to work. So I would plug it in and I would





shampoo the hair, then I’d comb it out and kind of twist it up and put them under the dryer. Then we started doing the blow dryer, which was the hand dryer. You blow and it and you press with the brush. Brush it out real good. And it’s almost straight, because the heat from the hand dryer. And then after that, you had heat up your stove, you put your straightening combs in their and you press it. You press it real had and it be looking like my now, like I’m wearing mine.

	O	Straight.



	M	Straight like yours too. But back in the day most people, they wanted curl. They would get it curl all over and then you would comb out the curls and set finger waves. Finger waves was beautiful.

[Laughter]



	O	You did finger waves?



	M	I did finger waves, uh-huh. And I did the hair cutting back in the day. People didn’t want you to cut too much of the hair, but when you cut it you get a better style.

	O	They wanted to grow it long.



	M	They want it to grow long, mmhm. And then when it grow long, then they could make up their mind, maybe they wanna get it trimmed some, but not too much. And then when you put the relaxer in, every time you put the relaxer in there, it’s straight anyway. And then you cut it and after you cut it then you use the hot irons to roll it. And it would curly all over. [Laughter] Sometimes if your tied up, you keep to every two weeks you’re supposed to be coming back, every two weeks. And you take scarf off and you still have plenty curls if you just take your hair and pick them out, out the door.





	O	Wow. What kinds of customers did you have? What kinds? Teachers, pastors wives, who?

	M	Yeah, I had the whole community there. The school, Booker High School, all the community up in there, we had them all up past Twenty-seventh Street. And we had what we call Newtown and Overtown, which Overtown was over town and out here it was Newtown.

	O	And you would all those customers— M	All those customers.

	O	Who was your competition?



	M	Well, we had, back in the day the beauty shop was in the houses, and we had a Dr. Margerie and Florence Fold, they had a beauty shop on they porch, Overtown.

	O	I remember that.



	M	You remember that? O	Mmhm. Dorothy’s.

	M	Dorothy.



	O	Mmhm.



	M	Mmhm. And then it was another—I can’t remember her name, but it was about two more—I would say about over there doing hair. And then Newtown, where I lived, in Newtown. Then Ms. Mary Emma Jones, you remember the taxi drivers? She owned three taxi drivers and she was famous in barbequing, remember? You use to call them Two Jone Bone. [Laughter] They wouldn’t give you but two bones or three bones for a barbecue sandwich. And we named them Two Bone Jone.





[Laughter]. And she had a taxi cab, I think she had two taxis of her own too. And she had beauty parlor, she had two operators.

	O	Oh, my goodness. They just had businesses, several businesses. M	Mmhm. Well we’ve had businesses all over town.

	O	Wow. Tell me about that, the businesses that were in Newtown. There were plenty of them that you can remember.

	M	I can remember Ken Major Grocery Store. I can remember the Mary Emma Jones Barbecue Stand. Then they had taxi stands, they had something—I don’t remember that name either. But they had about four or five taxis on line, because people can to have cars like that, they have cars now. And they had dry cleaner, they had a dry cleaners there too.

	O	Did you shop in downtown Sarasota for anything? Or did— M	Yeah, I would shop downtown.

	O	You did?



	M	Uh-huh. It was J.C. Penny’s that was down there. Sears was down there and they had everything.

	O	Moss Brothers.



	M	Moss Brothers wasn’t there at that time, they came later, later on. Let me see—It was a Town and Country dress store and it was two shoe stores. Cinderella, I know you would remember Cinderella because all the teenagers used to wear Cinderella shoes.

	O	Cinderella Bootery. M	Mmhm.





	O	Boy, I’m aging myself. [Laughter] Why did you all move from Overtown to Newtown?

	M	It’s all depending on what you was into. We was Overtown—Newtown because of the school, Booker High was here and they use to bus us from Overtown to Newtown to school. And then we had what you call a recreation center, which is right here where we at now. We call it the recreation center. And the soldiers, we had a soldier camp over there by the airport and they used to come down and have dances and do their little dances and whatnot.

	O	Soldiers?



	M	Soldiers.



	O	Black Soldiers?



	M	Black Soldiers. We had a soldier camp here, right up there from the airport. O	Did you date any of them or dance with them?

[Laughter]



	M	Well, I was a little girl, I wasn’t old enough. [Laughter] But I always wanted to get married to one so I could travel.

[Laughter]



	O	Is that right?



	M	It just so happened I got married to one and then I got married to him and he wouldn’t go back; even to join the service for three more years, he could come out. So after we started dating he came out.

	O	So you did marry one of those soldiers?



	M	Yeah, but he was getting out of the service.





[Laughter]



	O	What was his name? M	O.J. Woodard.

	O	Oh. How did you all meet?



	M	Right here in town, I think in the same neighborhood. When we moved from Atlanta and moved here it was called Overtown, which was Black Bottom because a lot of houses, apartments was there and a lot of people would rent in the neighborhood. And they had jook joints, what we call jook joints, they sold food, they playing music out there, it would be loud all night long. [Laughter] And I use to set on my porch and listen to B.B. King and Rick Fox. It was noisy all night and if you didn’t want to sleep, you didn’t have to. You could sit on your porch.

[Laughter]



	O	And listen to the music— M	Listen to the music

	O	All night long.



	M	Mmhm. Because we was like about fifteen or sixteen, you couldn’t go nowhere at that time. Your parents wouldn’t let you go out. You only went to the movies and you went to the movies on a Saturday around two o’clock and you would be out about five.

	O	Now why did they change the name from Black Bottom to Overtown? Do you remember that?

	M	No, well Overtown was Black Bottom. You know where the ice house at? O	Yes





M  The old ice house. Okay, it started from that stop, from there Overtime where we call it to Black Bottom where the bar—police station is there now. Now, you know where the police station at now?

O   Um-uh.



	M	Okay, that’s where what we call Black Bottom start. From, I would say, Fifth street, which was the picture show on Fifth Street. And there was a shoe store and all the way down it was restaurants. They had about three restaurants and two taxi stands. People didn’t have too many cars, so everybody must have reared around in taxis.

O  So, I was told that even though the Black community was there in Overtown and Black Bottom and downtown was very close, like a couple of stores over, Blacks couldn’t go into those stores, some of those stores. Well maybe that was during Mrs. Glossy Atkins’ period—

	M	That maybe was during their time, but I remember when they wasn’t too particular about selling to Blacks. Or they had a big store right on the corner and the clothes was so very expensive too. And then they had a Morrison cafeteria right in there and on down this street there they had—it was Walgreen’s Drug Store. Wasn’t a beautiful drug store like it is now, but it was a nice store. And they served food in there too, you could buy mostly anything you wanted to in there.

	O	What was the best part about growing up in this Black community? Overtown and Newtown, what was the best part?

	M	The best part growing up was the theater and let me see—churches. We had some nice churches. We had the C.M.E. Church, we had the Baptist Church.





	O	What was it so great about the churches?



	M	Oh, because that’s the time when everybody get together and you would have your singing choirs and you would have your Sunday school and different classes, all depending on how old you are. You start like about—I think it was the fifth or sixth grade, I think that’s when the classes started. And then you would go on up to the twelfth grade.

	O	I sounds like the church was the place where you’d socialize. M	Yeah, the church was. The church and school.

	O	And school, huh?



	M	Mmhm.



	O	Were there any clubs or organization later that you joined or were able to join? M	Yeah, the big one what I love so, still do, the Elk’s Club. I still like the Elks.

Anywhere, I could leave and go out of town right now, all I need to do is ask where the Elks at, the Elk’s Club.

[Laughter]



	O	And who were members? Who could be members of the Elk’s club? M	Let me see—

	O	Was it Black women basically?



	M	Yeah, Black womens and the mens, there were Black mens in there, and they called them the Bills.

	O	The Bills?



	M	Bills. Bills. [Laughter]





	O	The Elks and the Bills.



	M	Elks and the Bills. And the Elks, well, the ladies was called—what was the name? But anyway, it was the Elks for everything. That was a organization for the Blacks.

	O	What did you all do? Did you Travel? Did you—



	M	Oh, we travel from town or city to city. This year, we may have it here in Sarasota and everybody from Miami, St. Pete, all the the whole state of Florida would join in one place and get together and have turn outs. You would have meetings and you would have banquets. Just different things you would have.

	O	And what did you do at the meetings? Basically just socialize over good food?



	M	Yeah, socialize and rendezvous and regulation, what you can do and what you couldn’t do. And how you do if you go in another city and you was a Elks and you was looking for another Elks or Elks club, then you would ask and the people would tell you where the Elks were or the Elks club.

	O	Was it a secret organization or no?



	M	Yeah, Mmhm. Lily White, and I know you should remember the Lily White in Tampa.

	O	My grandmother was a member of the Lily White’s.



	M	Mmhm. And the Lily White was just like the Elks, that was big organization too.



You start from little kids and then to Lily White. [Laughter]

	O	Yeah, and what did they do?



	M	Well, I had grown up quite a bit. But it was a organization that you learned all the degrees, you start from the degrees, and then after degrees you would always





have meetings and different other delegates from other cities would be there.



	O	You could meet other peoples.



	M	Meet other peoples, Mmhm. Then we would certain, like, we would have a night that we have a big dance. Everybody would dance that they’d do what they need to do.

[Laughter]



	O	Were you a big dancer? M	Oh, yes. I love dancing.

	O	I could tell from this conversation. M	Oh yeah, I can dance now. [Laughter]

	M	The electric slide. [Laughter]

	O	You can shake your tail feather now. [Laughter]

	M	Yeah. Get that good music going and back in the day we had bands. And you wouldn’t believe it, but you remember Lloyd Price?

	O	Uh-uh



	M	Yeah, Lloyd Price he used to come from Washington, DC I believe, have a big band. Most of the band would come to Tampa and then some of them would leave Tampa and come to Sarasota because we really didn’t have a place large enough to hold the peoples. But we did have a place across the track called Dance Land and it held a lot, quite a few people. And they would come in from Tampa, St.





Pete, Bradenton, and Arcadia, we had people from everywhere. [Laughter]

	O	Wow. Now what do you remember about the the Civil Rights Era in Sarasota? M	The Civil—

	O	Yeah, integration and trying to get equal rights.



	M	Equal rights. Well, I was one of the members of Rivers—Mr. Rivers down the street there. He was the president, and we had a organization, what the name of that organization? Civil Rights Organization. And we got members and when we got the members together we started at Morrison cafeteria because that’s where Blacks couldn’t go and we would all just get together like twenty-five or thirty. They get scared when we walk in there, twenty-five to thirty people. [Laughter] And they’d just look at you and know. And we would just sit down and look at them.

And the waitress was scared to come over to the table, I guess, to take our order. So, they standing there looking at us and we sitting at the table looking at them.

[Laughter]



	O	Did you ever get food?



	M	Let me tell you what happened. [Laughter]

	M	So we did it for a whole week and— O	Every day?

	M	Every day, every day. It was eleven o’clock when we went down on our lunch, that was lunch time. And then five o’clock, that was from five to nine, that was dinner time. And Morrison’s cafeteria and—what that other place was name? It was a lot





of Cafe’s downtown there, at that time and I don’t remember the name. But didn’t nobody want to—

	O	Woodworth, Woolworth?



	M	Yeah, Woodworth, that’s it, Mmhm. And we would sit on the stool, go in at eleven o’clock and we would go like about ten or fifteen. And we would all sit, take up all the space, all the stools because you know more people they like to come in and sit on stools and eat lunch. And we would count how many stools it was and we come in and sit up there and the waitress look at us or we would look them. And then the manager would come out and look at us and be scared to say something because the NAACP. They knew we were strong and you have to be careful. So they would go back, we did it for a whole week.

	O	Did you ever get served? It was a mostly a stand off them looking at you and you looking—

	M	And we looking at them.



	O	And that was it. So you would stay for— M	A whole week, we did it for a whole week.

	O	Did you stay an hour each day or two hours? M	We stayed there maybe about a hour.

	O	And then leave because you weren’t served.



	M	We wasn’t served, but we would sit up and keep the other people from coming in. [Laughter] Long as we sat there, they wouldn’t come in.

	O	Okay, so you disturbed the economy?



	M	The economy, yeah. And they would cook up the food and wouldn’t nobody come





in and buy it. They didn’t serve us and we wouldn’t let nobody come in. [Laughter]

	O	I see. So after a week, what happened?



	M	After a week then the manager he came out, he said “Please, please y’all.” He said, “What y’all mean to do?” He said, “I done through out my food a whole week.” Well that’s what we was making them do, throw it out. We said, “Well—

	O	Hold a second, let me go turn the music off again. Hold that thought Mrs.



McDougal we haven’t heard this story. We have not heard this story yet. You’re the first one sharing this one.

	M	That was the one I like. [Laughter]

Jim: That must have been something back in the day



	M	That was Walgreen, yeah, back in the day and that was out there in Ringling shopping center. You know where Ringling shopping center is?

Jim: Yeah, yes.



	M	It’s not open now, but it was that big drug store right on the corner, I believe it was. And then on the one side that’s where they had the food at and who you sat there eat or you want to sit up to the the counter or the stools. And then I think they had all White waitress and they had all White cooks. So what we would do, we would go in like lunch time, because that’s when, especial when the tourist was here, the people from up North they thought it was horrible, they thought it was so bad.

Jim: Oh really?



	M	Yeah, up North they serve Black people. They didn’t have no certain ones that





they serve. You walked in, you got served. But here was different and Mr. John River, he was our NAACP president.

	O	Ready?



Jim: Yeah, you ready?



	O	Are we going to start again? M	Okay.

[Laughter]



	O	I mean, well, start from where you were talking about— M	The stools—

	O	You sat on the—



	M	Sat on the stools at the counter. But they had chairs all in the other part. You usually sit to a table or you could sit up to the bar and still be served.

	O	Well sounds like you had the whole place shut down.



	M	We did. When we came in, we didn’t have to worry about the tables and the chairs that much, but they loved to sit up on the stools at the counter and order their food. So that’s one of the spaces that we took up. We counted the stools, how many would need to go in there to take up the space.

[Laughter]



	O	What the man said at the end of the week—describe that.



	M	He said—he walked in there he just looked at us, then they would walk back. The waitress, they would stand back, they was scared to come to the table. They’d look at us and we’d look at them. And we maybe spent about a hour, sometime two hours, just sit there. And then we all get up and leave. And then the peoples that





come in to order they food, come in to eat. Then they got tired too, they just stopped coming; they stayed home. [Laughter] So that’s the part what was killing him. So he said he was throwing his food out. Every day he said, “Please y’all, what you want me to do?” We said, “We want you to serve us.” [Laughter] Our money spend just like anybody else’s money. He said, “Well, just have a seat, just have a seat.” So we had a seat and then the waitress came out and they give us they menu and we all sat just like anybody else and we ordered the food and they brought it out to us. And it started from that day and everybody could come in and eat. Just didn’t matter what color you was. You just come in and eat.

	O	Wow.



	M	Mmhm.



	O	And the the NAACP did restaurants and all, what else did you all integrate? M	We integrated the restaurants and we integrated the clothing stores like J.C.

Penny’s and there was a expensive store there on Main Street, I can’t remember that name anyway. But, when you go in there you had to have some money and when they wasn’t too worried about us, they thought that the Black people didn’t have no money. But when we start to integrating down that line down there, then we all went in and we stood there and we went looking like we do now, pulling out dresses. [Laughter] And we was waiting for them to say, “Well, you want go in and try on your clothes?” We just found us a spot, went in the bathroom, anywhere.

Just so we were private and then we would come out to the mirror and be looking around like we do now. [Laughter] And they would, like him standing back, they be standing back looking. [Laughter] But we had fun doing it, ‘cause we was young





and we didn’t care. [Laughter]

	O	You weren’t afraid?



	M	We wasn’t afraid, uh-uh. But the older people, they act like they was a little afraid, but we wasn’t.

	O	Mrs. Barber said that they were afraid when they went to the beach in that first car to start to integrate the beaches, but you all were younger and fearless.

	M	Well we was young. During her time it was like that, they didn’t have a place for the Blacks for no beach. And you couldn’t even go out there. But during my time, we integrated that too. They had one in between Sarasota and Bradenton Beach out there, on the beach there. And let me see, going up to your right, you going all the way up to Bradenton and Sarasota Beach and then I think it was—Siesta Key. We integrated Siesta Key too.

	O	You did.



	M	Yeah, Mmhm.



	O	Back to the clothing stores, after a week, did your stand work? M	Mmhm.

	O	Going in there and—



	M	Mmhm, Mmhm. We used to just walk in, just start to pulling down clothes. Looking, looking.

	O	And trying them on.



	M	And trying them on, Mmhm.



	O	And then when it came time to buy did you find anything you wanted—





	M	Yeah, when we found something we want, then we would walk up to them and say, “Well, who can I—” Let me say how we used to holler at them and say—how they walk up to them and say, “Who want to take my money? I like this dress.” [Laughter] And then they would look like they’re looking at the other one. And then she would go back there and said something to the manager. I guess she said, “They want to buy this dress.” So I guess he got tired of us come in taking them down, looking and talking to each other. Then they start to taking our money.

	O	Wow.



	M	Mmhm.



	O	How did you feel going in there and doing this, say at the counters and the clothing stores? How did that feel when you were successful?

	M	Well, it felt good to us because we were doing something that was right. And they didn’t have no right to keep us out when we had the money to pay. And that’s what we did, we had the money to pay so we would all go in there as group. We didn’t go in there like one or two, we’d go in there as groups and then that’s when they decided they want to wait on us and get us out of there.

	O	Wow. And see, what you did opened the door for our generation. M	Opened the door for YOUR generation, that’s right.

	O	How did that feel, knowing that you did that?



	M	Well, it feel good because I know that after our time, your generation was gone be coming, which it would be our kids. And that’s what happened, Mmhm. When we got through with standing up and trying on and going in the bathroom with dresses, trying on. They tried to pass a law, I don’t remember now, they tried to pass a law





that you couldn’t take the clothes off of the hanger and go back to trying on. But then the NAACP popped in, stepped in and they said well if everybody else go in to trying on clothes then anybody ought to be able to go in there and try on clothes if they want to or if they would like to try on some clothes.

	O	I see.



	M	So the NAACP done got them passed a lot of stuff. O	The NAACP was just really strong.

	M	Oh we were strong, we were strong. And we grew up, coming up, and—you right. We got our rights. And then, when was that president got killed? He come and he opened the door, he passed a law that you had to wait on anybody. If they had the money, if you wanted to buy something or buy it on location, you could do it.

	O	What was John Rivers like?



	M	John Rivers good, he was very good. And real strong and he liked to—he was a real good Christian too. And he would like to do things right. And just because he was the NAACP president we didn’t try to buck against or start fights or nothing. We did everything the right way and we either talked it out or just walked around and did whatever we wanted to do. You had to walk up to us and tell us, “Well you can’t do this and you can’t do that.” Well how come?

	O	You questioned authority?



	M	Yeah, we see the other people coming in doing it. The other people, the White peoples, as we called them. [Laughter] And then they would get real straight and then when President Kennedy he stepped in, come in, and he passed the law.

Regardless of what color, we don’t care what color you are or whatever you





wanted, if you had the money to buy it you bought it. If you want to buy a house on there on Bird Key, if you had the money you could buy it.

	O	What was Neil Humphrey like?



	M	Neil Humphrey he wasn’t like Mr. Rivers. Certain things he pushed and certain things he didn’t. And he was the one, and I know why he didn’t push back selling to Blacks or selling to Whites, because he had that drug store up there. So he sort of stood back and he didn’t push nothing. But Mary Emma Jones, they kind of pushed stuff with the taxi cabs and stuff. But then when they started pushing with the taxi cabs, you had to have license, you had to have this, and you have to have that. Well then that the Whites too because a lot of them didn’t have money to do all that what they want done before you could have a taxi cab stand.

	O	I see. Do you remember Catherine and Herbert Jenkins’ grocery store?



	M	Oh yeah. That was one of the biggest, largest, nicest store out here in Newtown. And he had a truck and all the older peoples who didn’t have cars or didn’t have a way to get around to shop and we had a big grocery store called the PMP—PM— APM.

	O	A&P.



	M	A&P. Mmhm. That was the, I would say, the closest store here in the Black section. And I think they had Winn Dixie, that’s where Winn Dixie come at right over town there by where the coffee-cigar shop over there. That’s where they bought us.

	O	So Jenkins had a big truck and he would— M	He had a truck.





	O	Take the older people to the grocery store?



	M	No, he would take the orders. They would call in and tell him what they want and he’d take orders. And then he would take the orders to them from door to door. Because the older people didn’t have cars to get out to shop to buy their food.

	O	I see. And then also I remember milk delivery.



	M	Yeah, we call a milk man. Call it the milk man. So nothing but milk and it went from door to door. And then they had a ice company right there Twelfth street. They had what you call ice truck, peoples call in their orders and if they didn’t call in a order the driver would go from door to door. Didn’t have a refrigerator, we had what you call ice boxes and you open that box and it had the big space like the freezer part up there, that’s where you would put that big block of ice and keep it. And you had what you call a ice pick and you pick that ice when you wanted to put it in a glass or make something cold. You take that ice pick and pick off as much ice as you wanted to. And sometime that block of ice would last you like about four or five days. If we didn’t go in the refrigerator, keep opening the door, open it and open it up. And it kept all your food cold just like we’re keeping it cold now. Mmhm, electricity.

	O	So, you know there’s a push to revitalize Newtown and bring in more new businesses. What is it going to take to get it back to the way that it was? You all remember when the place was teeming with businesses on MLK. What do you think it’s going to take?

	M	Well, it’s gonna take quite a bit, because, I’m going to tell you why. It’s so much done happened. People done got killed out here and do so much bad—breaking





into houses and back in the [19]80’s 1980’s when the drugs come out. If you see my house, you see bars all around my window. And then I have what you do you call it, if somebody hit the door and try to come in it call the police station down there and they’ll come out. It somehow or another they wire up down at the police station and if somebody try to break in your house, you think you come getting by, you about got in there and then the police there. [Laughter] I had that one first. But then I have one now, they put it in for me, and you have if you try to get in or open the door then you can’t get through the windows like you use to. Them bars keep them from getting through the window and if they hit them bars trying to break in then police will come. When you look around, it’s too late, they got you.

[Laughter]



	O	They got you.



	M	Mmhm.



	O	So the community is going to have to really become a safer place, you think.



	M	The community is not bad now. Like I said, back in the [19]80’s it was bad because they was selling drugs and breaking in your house to get stuff to get money to buy drugs. But, I don’t know, seeing as now days it’s not as bad. Now it’s just certain spots. Let me see what is the bad spot now? Twenty-seventh Street is kind of a little bad spot.

	O	Twenty-seventh and what? Osprey or—?



M  Twenty-seventh and Osprey, yeah. Twenty-seventh and Osprey. But they don’t be on the front, they be back, you know they got houses and they got apartments and they kind of hide around. And you what now? They doing it that you don’t hardly





know they doing it. Just certain spots, you know.



	O	I see. I think that the whole community is going to need to feel that they can come and shop in businesses, new businesses, if they felt safe.

	M	Well, they can do it now. But what happened before, people to go in a shop, maybe go in on Twenty-seventh street in a restaurant and get something to eat and come back out, somebody standing around and looking in their pocketbook seeing they got a lot of money. Snatch the pocketbook plus a bill full and run. But they don’t do that anymore now. You can be safe from that now.

	O	So, you think that—What’s your vision for Newtown’s future? If you could envision a future for Newtown, what would it look like?

M  Well, if I could do it, it would look like downtown. [Laughter] If I could do it. It would take a lot of money to do it. So, I’m not dreaming about it right now, but maybe you and the other generation coming on might step up and can do it.

	[Laughter] O	Alright.

	M	Yeah. Because these young people they got good taste, they really do. O	Would you like to add anything Mrs. McDougal?

	M	Add anything?



	O	Add anything to our conversation that I haven’t asked you that you really want to talk about?

	M	Oh, I think we covered everything. [Laughter] I think he liked that one when we walked in the drug store to eat. [Laughter] To order our food. [Laughter] That one, I kind of liked that one too. [Laughter] And I’m trying to think of—Oh, did I mention





Morrison cafeteria?



O  You did try to say—You said that you were trying to integrate it, so you had a boycott there too.

M  Yeah, we had one there too, mmhm. And the waiters, they wouldn’t have Black waiters, they would hire all White waiters. And then we got it where they start to hiring the Black waiters—

O   How did you do that?



	M	Well, NAACP. We’d done another time, we all grouped up. There was a larger group then that went down there and sit down, took up tables. [Laughter] And they looked at us and we looked back at them. [Laughter]

	O	That old standoff. [Laughter]



	M	And then they tried to set up some kind of law where you couldn’t come in. If they didn’t want to serve you, they don’t have to serve you. But they couldn’t pass it, because, see, that wasn’t private at that time. If you had a private restaurant you could kind of stand back and not serve if you didn’t want to. But it wouldn’t last too long cause the NAACP would step in there.

	O	I have so much respect for what the NAACP did. M	I do too.

	O	What a strength.



	M	They really opened the door. The NAACP and the Lord, opened the doors. O	Opened the doors.

	M	Nothing but the Lord. [Laughter] O	I agree, I agree.





	M	I enjoyed this you know—said non-violence— O	MLK—

	M	Dr. King. Dr. King said non-violence and that’s what we did. You walk in and just look. You can’t do nothing looking. [Laughter] You can’t do nothing about it looking. [Laughter]

	O	And being quiet.



	M	Being quiet. You come in there fighting, you didn't come in there shooting. And it was a law in Washington, D.C. had passed. President Kennedy passed that. Don’t care what color you is, if you had the money and you want to buy or wherever you want to do, you could go. And it’s been going right on ever since then.

	O	Amen. All right.



	M	And I thank the Lord and I thank Kennedy. And Robert, his brother, he was rough too, he straightened up a lot of stuff before he got killed.

	O	All right, thank you Jim. [Jim: Alright, good, very good.]

	O	Thank you so much Miss Fannie. [End of Interview]





	Final edit by:	Sandra Romero, November 4, 2020