AAHP 760; Wright; Page 2



















Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfbSamuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 760 Cottie Wright

African American History Program (AAHP) Interviewed by Emma Donnelly on February 20, 2020 21 minutes | 9 pages



Abstract: Cottie Wright gives insight into her experience and interaction with African American Studies. Her passion for history and political science fueled her choice of discipline at both Alabama State University and University of Florida. She noted that Alabama State University was an all-black school as opposed to the University of Florida. Wright highlights the importance of teaching an inclusive history of US from high school to college level which brings to fore the contributions of African American. Living through period of segregation in Montgomery, Alabama where she was born, activism soon became an integral part of her life. In recent years, her support for the Civil Rights Movement has metamorphosed into advocacy for particularly African American Studies, and in broad sense, teaching of a complete form of US history.



Keywords: [University of Florida; African American Studies; US history; Civil Rights Movement; school curriculum]





































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 760

Interviewee: Cottie Wright Interviewer: Emma Donnelly Date: February 20, 2020



	D:	My name is Emma Donnelly with the University of Florida, Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. I am here with Cottie Wright, at the symposium for the fiftieth anniversary of UF African American Studies, on February 20, 2020. Thank you so much for talking with me today.

	W:	You’re welcome.



D:  Could you please start by introducing yourself with your name, where you were born, and your relationships to the university?

W:  My name is Cottie A. Wright. I am originally from Montgomery, Alabama. I moved to Florida in 1971 as a graduate of Alabama State University for my first teaching job, here. And from then on, while I was teaching, I enrolled in graduate school at Florida.

	D:	How did your experience at the university in Alabama different from your experience at the University of Florida?

	W:	The experience was different because Alabama State University was basically an all-black school. It was very family oriented, close-knit. I lived almost like — I could walk across the street and be on campus, so, that was very different. It was a smaller campus compared to UF. And then when I enrolled at UF, I was still – you know, [inaudible, 01:40] more like a job, something that I needed to do because I was still teaching during the day, and classes at night or evenings. So, it was all business, no fun. [Laughter]

	D:	What did you study at Alabama? And what did you study at the University of Florida?





	W:	At Alabama State, I studied history-political science that was my major. And here, at UF, I did a master’s through the College of Education. So, my master’s is actually in history-political science, but in the education area, and leadership administration.

	D:	And what do you do now?



	W:	I am a retired educator. I taught classroom teaching for about twenty-five years. And then I have been over special programs like GEAR UP which, I don’t know if you’re familiar, but it’s gaining early awareness and readiness for high school.

This was a middle school program preparing middle school students to prepare early for college. It was something like [inaudible 02:59], but it started at the middle school level. And after that I became the district literacy coach; reading coach where I did professional development with teachers. I retired in 2015, and I still do some part time sub-work when I want to. [Laughter] Because I want to stay abreast with what’s going on in education.

	D:	Where did you work?



	W:	I started in 1971 at Eastside High School. I taught history, government, economics. And I was there until my husband became Assistant Principal at Eastside High. Then, I knew we couldn’t both be there at the same time, so, I was in [inaudible 03:53] Lincoln Middle School for the GEAR UP program. And then from there, I worked through the district office.

	D:	What is your role in the fiftieth anniversary of African American Studies?



	W:		Well, my role is basically to get an update of what the program is doing, what’s happening here? I will that’s my secondary role. My primary role, here, today is to





support my husband, who is promoting his book here entitled, Night Riders. It’s about the Civil Rights Movement.

	D:		Tomorrow, on February twenty-first, there will be a historical marker to commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of African American Studies unveiled. So, what do you see as the significance of this historical marker to the university, to the community, or to you?

	W:	There is a significance because it shows the role or the importance of African American Studies as a part of – it should be a part of every school curriculum especially at the university because it promotes community involvement. And I think that’s one of the topics being discussed today— the role of African American Studies. I think it helps to bring the community together, a program of inclusion and that it is important, and that it is a part of American history.

	D:		So, since you were a student at the University of Florida, what do you see as the biggest obstacles to African American students at that time? And do you think that those obstacles have changed?

	W:	Well, when I attended in the [19]70s, personally, I can’t really point out any obstacles for me because as I said I was not a full time student. I was only on campus, you know, for my classes and I needed to get that done. So, personally, I didn’t see any obstacles, but I do talk to students today, and I have relatives that have gone through and they talk about some of the obstacles that they face. But as I said, for me personally, here as a part time student, evenings, I really wasn’t confronted with any.

	D:	What does African American Studies mean to you?





	W:	African American Studies, to me, means inclusion, and to pointing out the importance of African Americans in the total picture of US history; total involvement. And it’s not just an event that happens in February. By the way, I taught African American history. I was one of the first teachers in this district back in the [19]70s to teach African American Studies. So to me, its inclusion, it shows the importance of every group in the making of this great country. And I don’t like the idea of just, you know, pulling it out, isolating it in February. When I taught, I did inclusion in every segment of American history.

	D:		When you were growing up, what was your knowledge of African American studies or African American history?

	W:	When I was growing up, my study was limited because it wasn’t included in the history books. The only thing we saw in the history books was Africans as slaves, working on the plantations, and the cruelty of Africans, the mistreatment, the plantation system, the segregation. And I actually grew up in the segregated south in Montgomery, Alabama. I went to schools there. I graduated from an all- black high school. So, I know first-hand some of the problems of segregation.

	D:	Could you describe some of the experiences you had as a student in segregated Montgomery?

	W:	First of all, I was there during the time of the Montgomery bus boycott. I know that we could not ride the buses, even though I was very young at the time. It did exist. Also, I remember the separate facilities; the water fountains, the separate restroom facilities, going through the back doors of restaurants, restaurants you could not go in.





	D:	What do you see as the importance of African American Studies for young people today?

	W:	It’s important because they need to know the full history. They need to know the contributions, the role that African Americans play in American society. A lot of our contributions have been forgotten or overlooked or we haven’t been given credit for. So, we need to point all of that out.

	D:	What are your hopes for the future of African American Studies as a field?



	W:	African American History as a field—Well, first, I will say that I thought it should be, you know, especially at the high school level, taught as it appears in history throughout because people should have a general knowledge or background of the role of African Americans in society. But, I think it’s important at the college level or higher level because some people are more interested, you know, they want more details. They don’t want just want a smattering or a general knowledge. So, for those that are interested in going in depth with the knowledge of African American, so that it can continue and they can teach it to others, say, at the high school level of things they aren’t aware of. So, it’s more research and sharing what they’ve learned, making it known to more people.

	D:	Were you involved with any groups, organizations, or movements while you were at the University of Florida, or perhaps, at your university in Montgomery?

	W:	In Montgomery, I was involved –Well, by the way, let me tell you this. While I was in middle – we called it junior high then, I was there for the Selma to Montgomery March, and I didn’t march all the way from Selma to Montgomery, but different people, different groups joined throughout. When the march reached Saint Jude;





it was a Catholic hospital at the time, I was there that night and, you know, I got to see Arabella Fonti and a lot of the other stars who were there, supporting the movement. Then, the next morning, as the movement marched to the Capitol downtown, Montgomery, I was in junior high, so, I walked out of school with some of the other students and we joined the march. And we marched to downtown Montgomery. So, that was my role there early in the Civil Rights Movement. Also, in high school, I was in student government. I’ve always been politically active, so I was in student government. And then at college, I was kind of, you know, focused on academics, not a lot of sports or other things. But I did pledged a sorority while in college.

	D:	What motivated you to join the march?



W:  First of all, it was exciting. It was something different going on. And I had read about all the segregation experience [inaudible 14:03] so I was in tune to what the movement and the march was all about. And I wanted to be a part of that.

	D:	Would you consider yourself to an activist?



	W:		Yes, not an activist so much as, you know, now getting out there marching, but I do make my voice known and heard by sharing it through groups. I do it at the school level. I still do substitute work sometimes, even though I’m retired and I share some of my experiences with my present day student, whatever class I’m in. And I love when I’m in a history class so I can actually share and teach. [Laughter]

	D:	What do you think are the lessons that our country can learn from African American Studies?





	W:	I think they can learn that people are different. They have different needs, different interests, different desires, different motivations, but most of all, I think our country needs to remember that all nationalities, all people are humans and they should be treated fairly and equally, and they all have some contribution to make to society.

	D:	How is African American Studies unique as a discipline?



	W:	How is it unique? It’s unique because we started off in bondage as slaves, and through movements, through the years, we can see progress that we made. And ask that question again.

D:  How is African American Studies unique as a discipline in comparison to other disciplines, for example, like what’s unique about African American Studies or maybe like cultural studies programs, that’s important them?

	W:	Okay. I think the unique part of it is we were brought here as slaves unwillingly and many times were still enslaved or denied rights and freedom. I think just because of maybe the color of our skin, a lot of people see black or dark skin as being inferior, and they’re treated that way. And I think many other immigrants who come, if their skin is lighter, I don’t think they have experienced the same kind of mistreatment as African Americans.

	D:	After all of your experiences in Montgomery, and at the universities that you attended, what does it mean to you to have this celebration for fiftieth anniversary of the African American Studies program?

	W:	Okay, this is significant to commemorate the fifty years celebration in that the movement is still going on and we still see the significance of the contributions of





African Americans and it’s something that we don’t want to forget and we don’t want society to forget that we too are Americans.

	D:	Are there any individuals in particular who you view as influential to African American Studies?

	W:	Local or worldwide or—?



	D:	Local or either way if you have people you would like to add worldwide.



	W:		Okay. Well, locally I would saw my father-in-law, the late Rev. Dr. Thomas A. Wright who was a civil rights icon of St. Augustine and Gainesville. And he was very influential in making a lot of changes and making progress for those two cities.

	D:	What are the changes that you would like to see in the country today? Maybe, how do you think African American Studies might be able to help move us forward?

	W:	I think the civility of every human being. And economically, I would like to see better jobs, higher pay, better living conditions for all.

	D:	If you could give a message to future African American students and faculty, what will that message be?

W:  My message to African American students will be that you are important. Believe in yourself and you can do it but you have to work hard at it. You have to actually work to achieve your goals.

	D:	Is there anything else you would like to share before we finish the recording? W:	[Laughter]

	D:	All right! Great! Well, thank you so much for taking the time to talk to me today.





	W:	Okay. Thank you for interviewing me. [End of interview]

Transcribed by: Mosunmola Ogunmolaji, August 26, 2021 Audit-Edited by: Sandra Romero, September 1, 2021 Final-Edited by: Sandra Romero, September 2, 2021