AAHP 327; Bryant; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 327 Charles Bryant and Mary Bryant African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Justin Hosbey and Justin Dunnavant on April 25, 2014 1 hour, 22 minutes | 33 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 327

Interviewee: Charles Bryant, Mary Bryant Interviewer: Justin Hosbey, Justin Dunnavant Date: April 25, 2014



	H:	All right. So Mr. Charlie Bryant, maybe we could start with, if you can say your name and your date of birth? And you too, ma’am. Just for the record.

	M:	Mine is May 18th—



	B:	My name is Charlie Bryant. Born 1914, June the 2nd. They say I was born in Macon, Georgia, but ever since I was big enough to remember, I was in Florida.

	H:	So your birthday’s coming up soon. Yeah, one hundred. B:	One hundred.

	H:	Oh, man! [Laughter]



	B:	One hundred. [Laughter] Yeah, thank God that I’ll be able to live to see it. H:	All right, ma’am, do you want to give us your name and your date of birth? M:	Mary Bryant. 5-18-[19]35.

	D:	I guess we can just start with family history. We would like to start normally with the oldest person that you remember in your family. So if you remember your grandfather and grandmother, or if you remember your great-grandfather?

	B:	My grandfather, name was Ivy Bryant. Yeah. My grandmother, they called her Mattie.

	D:	Are they from Florida as well, here?



	B:	No, my mother was named Elizabeth Bryant. My daddy was named Julius Bryant.

	H:	That’s a really good recorder? So, that’s fine.



	U1:	No, no, I’m saying him, because he can’t hardly hear you. [Laughter] H:	Oh, okay, okay, okay. [Laughter] Yeah, okay, okay.





	B:	I don’t think memory goes back that far. I remember my grandfather, he used to tell me he was a hundred years older than me. His birthday was in June, too. And he was born in the 1800s, 1814. I was born in 1914. I remember him, he had a little store, he used to give us lunch. Used to loved to go down to that little store. And everything. I remember that well.

	D:	Is he from Florahome as well? Or a different part of Florida? B:	No. Or—was I from Florahome?

	D:	Your grandfather.



	B:	Oh no, no. He was from Georgia. That’s Thomasville, Georgia.



	H:	That’s not too far from Atlanta. And is he on your mother’s side or your father’s side?

	B:	My mother’s side. I didn’t know none of my daddy’ people but two of his brothers, that’s all I know of my daddy’ people. Two nephews, but they were part Indian.

	H:	Oh, okay.



	B:	They come from another, different direction. I didn’t know too much about my father’s people. At that time, they didn’t keep up with Indian people. And not too much of Black people. [Laughter] I heard a fellow saying yesterday on TV saying, “Black people just like a bunch of cockroaches, to be stepped on.” Yeah, that was yesterday.

	H:	Oh, no. Yesterday?



	B:	Yeah, that was on TV yesterday. H:	Wow. How do you feel about that?





	B:	I don’t have no feelings about it at all because he made a big mistake. He made a big mistake in life, but he didn’t know it. The things that happened yesterday is not today. Is not today. Forget about what happened yesterday. Because that done passed and gone; there’s nothing you can do about that. Think about today and tomorrow. What’s ahead of you. Not what’s behind you. Forget about that; all that’s behind you. Forget about it. So, that kind of talk don’t worry me at all. I done hear it before. Didn’t amount to nothing then and ain’t going amount to nothing now. [Laughter]

	D:	So what was it like growing up around this area? What was life like growing up around this area of Florida? How was life?

	B:	Oh, around here? When I first come here, it was kind of peaceful right around through here. But time brings around change. Every time the sun rises, a new day. Look forward to a new day every time the sun rise. Look to God from what come your health. And that’s where your health come from. That’s who keep you from all hurt and all danger, it’s God. Man don’t keep you. Man will destroy you. Got to look to God for your health. If God tell you He going with you, He’ll stand by you, and won’t forsake you, and never leave you.

	H:	So you said you, you grew up in Tallahassee. Were you in Tallahassee or just around it?

	B:	No Havana.



	H:	Havana? Okay. Is that close to Tallahassee?



	B:	That’s about eighteen miles the other side of Tallahassee. H:	Going toward Alabama? Or going—





	B:	Yeah, toward Alabama. Yeah.



	H:	Okay and what was it like growing up in that area?



	B:	Well, it was a lot of hard work, I tell you that. You tend to your own business.



Nobody don’t bother you, you don’t bother nobody. So, it was pretty good, considering. But times were going to change, you know.

	H:	So at what point did you get from Tallahassee to Florahome? B:	Oh, I come to Florahome, I come to Philadelphia here.

	H:	Philadelphia?



	B:	I come up in that area. I lived all over: California, Miami, Philadelphia, New York, all those places up in there.

	H:	Were you in the military? Or just moving around?



	B:	Yeah. I got sisters and brothers, they live in Philadelphia, too. I got a lot of kinpeople up in that area. I have kinpeople live out in Detroit, Chicago; I got, I been out that way, too. I used to go to California and picked grapes, worked out there.

	H:	Did you?



	B:	Napa Valley.



	H:	Napa Valley.



B:  All down on the bayou down there. Yeah, been all down in there. H:   Was it for work? Did you move around for work?

B:  Yeah, sometimes, that precisely. Because I could. It wasn’t like [inaudible 9:45]. Your children and you go where you want to go, if your children—nobody bother you out that way. After you pass—you take them to Louisiana, take them going





that way, you’d have no more problems. No problem. You go anywhere you want to go, you see where you want to see, whatever. If you get happy you get happy, if you don’t, you don’t.

	D:	Did you attend school right outside of Tallahassee as well? Or did you attend school in Florahome here?

	B:	Back when I went to school, they didn’t have school like it is now. You didn’t have no schoolhouses for Black people living then. There were a few around Tallahassee, down in there, but didn’t have schools. Go to church houses somewhere, get your little learning there.

	H:	Is that where you were taught in school, in a church house?



	B:	Yeah. You had to walk to school, didn’t ride school; you had to walk to school.



About two or three months out of the year, something like that. You couldn’t even buy your own books, had to use those second-handed books.

	H:	And what was that like, using second-hand books? Did you all think about that?



	B:	Oh, some of the pages all tore out, all like that, see? You miss a lot because they just tear the page out, or tear half of it off where you wouldn’t understand what you were reading and all that.

	D:	Do you remember any of your teachers?



	B:	Teachers? Yeah, I remember the teachers. Lily Sampson was our teacher back.



She didn’t teach no higher than eighth grade; you got to eighth grade, you a school teacher. Older children taught the younger children. But the teacher had so many children, she couldn’t get around to all of them. But now, the children going—when I was going, one teacher. Yeah.





	H:	What did you learn in school? What were the lessons and subjects?



	B:	Oh, it’s back so long! But—[Laughter]—they taught us primer in first grade, second grade, and things like that back then; arithmetic, and all that kind of stuff. You’d learn what you could learn. Because I don’t think the older people didn’t know too much to learn the younger people, back in those days. Themselves.

Because I notice now that these little children now can know more than the old people know. You see it on TV every day. Children can answer questions that an old person can’t answer. That’s now. But they learning fast and learning more.

	H:	I guess with the computers and stuff, and the Internet, that changes it a little bit.



	B:	I wouldn’t know what to even think about with a computer. [That look like a toy to me; I wouldn’t even know what to do with it! [Laughter] I’m telling the truth. I wouldn’t know what to do with a computer. I never used one, so I don’t know what to do with it. These little children now making fools out of everybody. [Laughter] That’s true. I see it right there on TV, I see it every day.

	H:	So, at what point did you get married? [Laughter] B:	I didn’t understand what he said.

	H:	Oh, I said, “When did you get married?”



	B:	Oh, 1975. My other wife passed, and after she passed, then I got married. First time I got married, 1940; after 1940, and my other wife passed in 1970, then I got married in [19]75.

	H:	Do you remember your first job growing up? B:	Well, on the farm, yeah, growing peanuts.

	H:	Peanuts. [Laughter] Is that what you’ve done for most of your life, just farm work?





	B:	No, truck driver, mostly. H:	Truck driver, okay.

	B:	I can handle most any kind of heavy equipment, and anything with a backhoe. I know how to run one of them.

	H:	I’m trying to just think about—so, you came back to Florahome. In what year did you come back to Florahome?

	B:	I come to Florahome in 1939.



	H:	1939, okay. Just thinking about—so, how was it with you and the University of Florida? Did you always know about the University of Florida? What was its relationship to Florahome, the university?

	B:	Well, did I have any people here or anything? H:	Yeah, do you have any people there, or—?

	B:	No, unh-uh. I just didn’t have much here. Me and my other boy. H:	Did you go to Gainesville often?

	B:	I used to. Used to go every day. Sometimes two or three times a day. When I drive a truck, I hauled cattle from everywhere. Been all over with all them cattle, I don’t know where I’ve been! [Laughter]

	D:	You moved from picking peanuts. About what age did you go to California to pick grapes?

	B:	Well, that’s what I did working the grape farms. I could have had got a job working, the man wanted me to work, working to make wine there. But I didn’t do that because [inaudible 18:07] Mexicans lived there. I didn’t go there.

	D:	How much did they pay you to pick grapes at that time?





	B:	Oh, a little old box like that, they would pay you ten cents a box when you picked grapes. You could make ten or fifteen dollars a day if you worked that the right way.

	D:	And they took you from Florida to California, or you had to find your own way to California?

	B:	Yeah, I found my own way. I went out there, I worked out there two years. The third year, I what I did, they had so many of them people out there, Mexicans, they could work cheap labor. So we didn’t bother with it then. Cut the labor down, cheap labor.

	H:	Was that seasonal work? You just did that during certain seasons of the year? Or was that all year?

	B:	No, seasons, yeah. That’s what we did. They could’ve stayed out there; you know, you might’ve found something to do. But you pretty much assured a job if you worked in a season. If you didn’t work for this company, you worked for another company. There were a lot of wine companies, when I was there at that time, making wine. We picked those grapes what you have in the store, big old bunches of grapes.

	H:	Oh, the big grapes, okay.



	B:	Like they got in the store. We didn’t pull no wine, because that was a different job, different work.

	D:	Do you remember what year that was? B:	Yeah, [19]31, [19]32, [19]33. Yeah.





	H:	You were a young man out there in California. Yeah, yeah. I think, because I know, we called the interview we asked about how old you were, you were ninety-nine; I was thinking to myself you lived through a lot of different

experiences here, especially in Florida. So maybe you can talk about some of the experiences you’ve seen, the changes you’ve seen in your life, from just when you were growing up to what you see now.

	B:	Oh, it’s a new world now. This is just a new world from the one we had. Did you hear that song about ‘it’s a new world where you come from’? [Laughter] It’s a new world! I’m telling you, all over. And Florida was one of the worstest places it was. They talk about Georgia, Mississippi, and all that; Florida just as bad or worse. Florida hasn’t always been a proud place to be. And it still ain’t. Still ain’t.

	D:	What kind of things did you hear about growing up that made Florida not so good? Did you hear a lot of stories?

	B:	Oh, yeah. A lot of fairy tales. Some of them you could believe, some of them you couldn’t.

	D:	What kind of stories? What kind of fairy tales?



	B:	Well, people telling what they did, and what, “they did that to—,” you know. You couldn’t believe some of them, because they sat around and tell a lot of tales about different things that happened. Some people bring it on their own self. You tend to your business, and nobody ain’t going to bother you about it. If you tend to your business.

	H:	So I know Ms. Mary mentioned that the Black people used to live on this side of the railroad tracks, and then White people lived on the other side of the railroad





tracks. She said now, the White people moved over here to the Black side. So, what was it like being Black during that time period, in the 1940s and [19]50s living here in Florida?

	B:	Well, back then, they tore us up a little bad, but they still try to say nobody ever did. [Laughter] Yeah, right in here. It happened, you know. Certain people, you mess with certain people. You talk about “stand your ground,” but that law been out long time ago. Make you stand your ground where you went, that’s another thing I can remember. Yeah, you had to stand your own ground. If you didn’t, you wouldn’t be alive long. You wouldn’t be around long, you had to stand your ground. That’s an old fairy tale. They didn’t try to bring it to you. Ain’t nothing to that. Ain’t nothing to it.

	D:	Were there any places you weren’t allowed to go? Were there any places they didn’t want you to go, your parents growing up? Your parents said, “Don’t go here,” “Don’t go there”?

B:  Yeah, there were lots of places they didn’t want you to go. All around, they didn’t want you to go to different places. Gainesville, Starke, all them places. They kind of rough places.

M:   Keystone?



	B:	Yeah, that place they didn’t want you to go. They still don’t want you to go, but you can go. [Laughter] You go to a lot places right now they don’t want you to go, but they don’t let on that they don’t want you to go.

	H:	So, were there any experiences you had growing up here, some times where you were somewhere you shouldn’t have gone or didn’t need to go to?





	B:	I like it down south Florida, down that way. Miami, down in there. I like it down in that part. I like Florida. Florida has good weather, you tend to your business sometimes, you know. You’ll get along all right. So I’m a living witness of all that, see? I got along pretty good. I tend to my own business, leave other people business alone.

	D:	What sort of things did you do for fun in the [19]40s and [19]50s? Did you go to events, or—?

	B:	The [19]40s and [19]50s? Well, I was working in Camp Blanding in the [19]40s and [19]50s. When I finished at Camp Blanding and left, I went to Jacksonville, worked the shipyard there. And from there, I been here, and I come here, I work for myself, did my job get that moss. The moss on the trees? You could make a good living on that. Got me two trucks, and I did a lot of moss right around here. Or in Gainesville, or Ocala. Yeah.

	D:	And on the weekends, what did you do? On the weekends, did you and your friends hang out, or go places, or—?

	B:	Oh, man, we did plenty of different places like that, stay home, or go to the picture show. I never did like them jukes and things, so didn’t worry me about that. Never did care for that.

	D:	What sort of pictures were popular then, picture shows? What kind of picture shows do you remember?

	B:	All them Westerns, all them Westerns. Yeah, I likeded them Western shows.



	H:	So just coming up to the [19]60s, 1960s and [19]50s, lots of things were changing all over the country. And I wonder, what was it like growing up in that





period when things were changing, and you could see, because you had lived through the way things were in the [19]20s and [19]30s? Now in the [19]60s, how did you see changes happening?

	B:	They made a great change, a great change. Lot more easier now than it was then. You know, right now you can make it hard for yourself right now, or you can make it good for yourself right now. I see, a lot the young people, they make a big mistake, and they overcome the mistake and get out, get out, and go right back and do the same thing over again. You learn from your mistakes. Make one mistake, don’t make that one no more. You do one thing, you don’t like it, don’t go there no more. You’s a big boy, you ain’t got to go nowhere, you ain’t got to go there.

	H:	So how many children do you have?



	B:	Well, I got one boy, supposed to be. He live in Gainesville there, somewhere there.

	H:	Is he your only one? B:	Yeah.

	M:	And then he has two step-daughters. H:	Okay, two step-daughters?

	U1:	And all them come to about sixteen great-great-grandchildren.



	H:	So if you count up grandchildren and great-grandchildren, how many do you think you have?

	B:	[Laughter] Oh, now I got to start counting them! M:	You ain’t even lying! [Laughter] Shoot!





	B:	Quite a few of them.



	M:	He gets four step-grandchildren, but I don’t know how many James got.



	B:	Judge say my boy have eleven, he got eleven over there in Gainesville, so the judge say.

	M:	That’s eleven, that’s fourteen grandchildren. And then, on our end, great- grands—thirteen great-grands, Shoot. I lost count myself.

	H:	That was twenty-seven last time I—at least twenty-seven.



	M:	And then great-great grands? One, two, three, four, five, six, seven? I don’t know. I think seven. [Laughter]

	U2:	I just had the two, and that was it. [Laughter]



	M:	I think seven great-great-grands. And thirteen great-grands and fourteen grands. B;	I went to one of my nephew’s funeral. He had seventy-two grandchildren there. H:	At his funeral?

	B:	Yeah. He way younger than me. But he has seventy-two grandchildren there.



	H:	So how do you feeling knowing that you’re the head of a family with so many grandchildren, and great-grandchildren, and great-great-grandchildren? How do you feel?

	B:	I feel good that I don’t have all that to worry about. [Laughter] Don’t have a lot of worries. Yeah, I feel pretty good about it.

	M:	Because somebody going to take care of some business. But he and grandma don’t have much to worry about.

	H:	That’s the good part about having lots of grand and great-grands.





	B:	Well, my family’s a big family. Big, big, big family. I go down south, down from below Orlando back down in there, there’s two or three hundred right quick. Kin. Nieces, nephews, grandchildren, and all like that. I’m the only one living now of my brothers and sisters. I’m the only one living now.

	H:	How many brothers and sisters did you have?



	B:	There were fifteen of us: ten brothers and five girls. All of them gone but me. D:	Do you remember World War II? And that time period?

	B:	World War II? Oh yeah, I kind of remember World War I a little bit. I know what I really know about World War I, because one of my first cousins, when he come from the Army, he stayed with us. That was about 1919 or 1920. So, he come back, he stayed with us for a while. Had all them old wrap-legs things. [Inaudible 33:01]. Yeah, he stayed with us for a while. [Inaudible 33:06].

	D:	And during World War II, did they try to recruit you to join the military, or—?



	B:	I was staying right here in World War II. See, Camp Blanding out there—well in fact, I was about one of the first peoples started to working for Camp Blanding, Black people. And I worked until it was about to close down, and I got transferred to Jacksonville, to the shipyard. I worked the shipyard there until V Day. They closed down on V Day. Yeah.

	D:	What sort of work did you do? What kind of work?



	B:	I was in the launching crew to put a ship in the water. I’ll get that ship on the runway, [inaudible 34:06]. I was in that crew. We had five wings, and we’d be on six ships in the water. With six ships in the water, even more.

	D:	Was it good money?





	B:	I did, you know, pretty good. Around four dollars, five dollars an hour, like that.



That was pretty good back in those days. I didn’t get drafted to the Service, but I was working for the Service. I working for the government. I worked for the government, and worked for Camp Blanding, too.

	D:	What was it like being one of the first Black people to work in Camp Blanding?



Was it difficult, or not so bad?



	B:	Very, very difficult. Very, very, very.



	D:	What do you remember from that time period?



	B:	Now, it wasn’t nothing too bad, but you know, they give you kind of a hard way to go. Things like that. Doing the hardest work and things like that. I was the first one that had a crew, work a bunch of men. I had eleven mens in my crew. Under my steel control. I drove from here up there every day, to work.

	H:	Have you ever traveled outside the country before? Have you ever been outside the country before?

	B:	I went to Canada one time. Yeah. H:	What was that like?

	B:	Oh, good, good. One thing about Canada, you didn’t know what they talking about, and they didn’t know what you talking about. [Laughter] That’s the only thing. But they’ll treat you nice, just like someone in the family.

	H:	What is it, language? The language?



	B:	Yeah. We left out of South Dakota, and went into Canada from South Dakota.



Back out in the western part, way back up, way up in the woods. That’s a scary- looking [inaudible 37:07].





	H:	Really? [Laughter]



	B:	I’ll bet it’s going change, though, now, because you go a mile before you see anybody. That’s the way it was in the west, out west, too; you go miles and miles before you see nobody. Yeah. Even on them big cattle ranches.

	H:	So in all your work, and living across the United States, is Florahome the favorite place that you lived?

	B:	Uh, it’s all right. [Laughter]



	H:	Was there somewhere that you liked better than Flora?



	B:	Oh, yeah. I’ve heard of things further down south. But you tend to your own business. I done lived my life for around seventy years in here. They don’t bother me, I don’t bother nobody.

	H:	Have you always lived in this home, right here? M:	Mm-mm. Our house got burnt down.

	B:	Yeah, all this property back down through here. When I first come and stayed, I built a house right down there. And I was the first Black person got electricity in here. But the line didn’t come that far right down the road right over there, down the highway. My house, I didn’t know I was going to get electricity, but he wired the house. But he showed me how to get it, because he went up there and we talked with the people. The people come back and wired [inaudible 39:12]. The Black people didn’t like that, because they didn’t—I had lights in my house; they didn’t have no lights in they house. So, they didn’t like that at all.

	D:	When did you get electricity? When did you get lights at the house? What year did you get electricity?





B:   I believe it was 1940 or [19]41. [19]40. Because I built the house in 1940. All this is dark ages. [Laughter] I had the two stoves up there, and the rest of it was dark ages. All of it dark ages. I know when Tallahassee wasn’t—people going around Tallahassee, stick sticks up there, light them things.

H:   The gas light, from the candle—or, the candle?



B:   I remember that. [Laughter] There was a man to the lantern, he get up there and sit up there and light that thing up there.

D:   Did you have plumbing inside, too? You had water and toilet in the house, then?



	B:	I got water, running water, after—must be 1945, I believe it was. After the war I moved back, from Jacksonville I moved back here. Had to put in my own well, which is another—I got my own well.

	H:	Do you still have your own well now? Is it good water?



	M:	Yes, yes, yes. It’s so fresh ‘til, like our family from Orlando and Miami and stuff, they’ll come visit. They don’t like the taste of it, they’re not used to it. Because it’s too fresh. It’s not that processed water. So yeah, it’s good water.

	U1:	Mmhm. I sit up there and drink it, drink it, drink it.



	M:	Like spring water, that’s really what it’s something like. It’s just that fresh.



	B:	My well is 155 feet deep. They well is 160 feet deep, deeper than mine, but mine is in a rock and theirs ain’t.

	H:	So what’s the difference between being in a rock and not? M:	Nothing.

	H:	Nothing, okay, okay.





	B:	In a rock, you got more pure water. When it’s not rock, you got a little bit of lime or something.

	M:	I drink it all the time. It’s good to me. Tastes good.



	B:	Some of them get sulfur water, too. Some of them get sulfur water. U1:	And Miss Juanita around here, too.

	D:	When you were younger, did you have to gather water from the well, as well? B:	Pump it way down there. Pump it down [inaudible 43:18].

	H:	You had a pump?



	M:	They got a pump here.



	D:	You had one pump for the whole—?



	B:	Running it to the, [inaudible 43:30] come from under the ground, on up to here. H:	So over your life in a hundred years, what are some things that you really learnt,

some important lessons you learned in your life, that you want to pass on?



	B:	Well, the good lesson is that, I’d like everybody to get along good, tend to their own business and leaving other people’ business alone, and get along like that. This would be a better world to live in. But people not going do that. Iinaudible 44:37] Messing up every day.

	H:	So when you watch TV and you see what’s going on in the world now, what do you think?

	B:	It’s going from bad to worse every day. I feel sad for the young people coming along. But if something great don’t happen after a while, if something great don’t happen—you got to have them to make a change. Something bad got to happen to make a change. Things been going on too easy too long. Them going to fall off





the table after a while. Yeah. It going go from bad to worse. You take most of the young people now, you can’t hardly get a job, all the jobs are moving different places, closing down. Even the country ain’t like it used to be. This used to be a big farming area. We had a lot of cattle out there, it was like five thousand head of cattle to feed at one time. But now, you ain’t got none. See, five thousand cattle feed a lot of people. But now, you ain’t got nothing. A lot of beans, and corn, and vegetables and stuff you could do here. People from down south and all around had farms in here. They ain’t got none now. [Inaudible 46:40].

Something bad going happen. It got to. Or you going overflow. You going be like India. India got so many people they don’t know what to do with them.

	H:	That’s how many, two billion? Two billion people in India? And China got about three billion.

	M:	Yeah, China’s filled to the brim.



	B:	India got more people than the whole world. More than China and all of them put together. India’s got more people, that’s what they say. Well, something got to happen. [Laughter]

	D:	I wanted to ask you—I know it’s going back, but—what sort of food did you eat growing up? What was your favorite food growing up? Because I know we all have our favorite foods now.

	B:	Anything, anything you can get! [Laughter] And you were more healthier than you are now today. Because it didn’t have all that chemical than you do today. Mind you, everything you eat now got some kind of chemical in it. I don’t know. We had a machine here, you know, you didn’t have to break the ground. Just go out





there and just plant ‘em. Spray, and plant, and spray, all the same time. Then you didn’t have to go back out there, complain or nothing like that. It’ll grow up. Putting that stuff, that chemical in that food? Got to be in there. And that chemical kill everything that grow. But that’s the requirement, that’s the only thing that would need, some of them. And then some of these are made.

	M:	See, he worked on that farm. The last job, the last job he had was on the farm. A cattle farm.

	D:	Yeah, I was wondering, it was interesting he said he used to grow peanuts, because I know George Washington Carver had that whole peanut movement, trying to move people—

	B:	Yeah, I grew up in west Thomasville up there, they grow peanuts there, yeah. D:	Were there a lot of people that grew peanuts in that area?

	B:	Yeah, you could grow quite a few peanuts up in that area, up in Georgia. Not Macon, Georgia. We wasn’t but about seven or eight miles from the Georgia line. But you could grow tobacco. That mostly what we grew, was tobacco.

	D:	Did the Black folks and the White folks grow the same things on their farm, or were they different?

	B:	Yeah.



	D:	The same?



	H:	I know we had a professor at the University of Florida, he talked about how, during one point, the White farmers would not allow the Black farmers to farm the most profitable crops. So, they would make sure that the Black farmers could not





farm to make the most money, and they would save it for themselves. Did that happen too?

	B:	Yeah, yeah, I knew that. You see, Hoover messed that up. H:	Hoover?

	B:	Yeah, the Black people was doing pretty good until Hoover come. Hoover killed all our banks and everything. You had money, you couldn’t get it; it wouldn’t do you no good. Or you couldn’t get it out of the bank. Nobody couldn’t get the money. But he changed the money. Was different money. So, you had to go to the bank, and even then your money wasn’t no good. That’s the way I feel about it. That’s in my lifetime. Some of the come out of the military, some of them. You find nobody with no money: no White, no Black, nobody but the rich folks.

	H:	The rich folks, yeah. So when it was like that, when, after Hoover, and Black and White people kind of both were in the same boat, did they come together at that moment, or were they still separate?

	B:	They had to. They had to, to survive. I think people take [inaudible 51:56] and make dresses and things out of—ball and ball, about the color they want. Get the color they want. Make dresses and things out of it. Out of [inaudible 52:08]. Anything, yeah. You had to come together, to survive. Things were kind of rough back in those days.

	H:	That was during the Depression?



	B:	Yeah. I lived through that. I was small, but I lived through it. We had [inaudible 52:46] good to eat then, we grew on the farm. If you knew what to do, you could save your own self. Peoples done a lot canning and stuff; jarring, putting stuff in





jars; things like that. Your own hogs, your cows and things, they got that now. You didn’t go to nobody’ house you didn’t find chickens, and hogs, and peoples had cows, too. Ain’t got that now.

	H:	The world is so different now.



	B:	Yeah. They going be a great change after a while. I might not be around to see it, but it’s going be great change.

	H:	How did you feel when Obama got elected? What did you think about when that happened?

	B:	I didn’t think I’d ever would live to see it. I’d heard about it, a Black president, before but I didn’t ever see it. I didn’t think I would live to see one, but thank God it’s here. Because that might be on the change. [Laughter] You know? You don’t never know what God got in store. You know what you got in store, but you don’t think like God thinks. God thinks where we’re headed.

	H:	Were you able to vote in that election? B:	Oh, yeah. Yeah. I voted for Obama.

	H:	You voted for Obama? B:	Yeah. I’m a Democrat.

	H:	You a Democrat? Always have been, or did you change?



	B:	Always have been, always will be. [Laughter] When a Black man gets into the system, he will be a Democrat. I remember when they used to make Black people vote Republican. If you didn’t vote Republican, you couldn’t vote! I remember that.





	H:	So what was it like for voting back when you were younger? Back when you were younger during the [19]40s and [19]30s and [19]50s. Was it hard for you to vote?

	B:	Oh yeah. You didn’t vote. If you didn’t own some land, you didn’t vote. And you had to vote the way they wanted you to vote. All like that kind of stuff. It just got, it just got [inaudible 55:39] to vote. In the [19]30s, the [19]30s and the [19]40s, you were free to vote any kind of way you wanted to vote.

	D:	Did they have the NAACP in this area?



	B:	No, not that I know of. They might have had it up in the northern country, but not down here.

	H:	So if something happened to a Black person down here, who could you talk to, who could you go to, if something bad happened to a Black person down here?

	B:	If the White man didn’t stick up for you, you know, you were out on your own. Sometimes the White man’d speak up for you, but if he didn’t, you was out on your own. You had to stand your own ground. A lot of that going on. There’s a lot of things happened that people don’t talk about, too. They don’t even mention some things now.

	H:	Like what?



	B:	I won’t share some things that happened. I don’t want to tell you those. H:	Okay, all right, all right.

	D:	Did you all get some of the Black newspapers from up north down here? M:	Yeah, from Tampa.

	D:	From Tampa? What kind of news did you get from Tampa?



	M:	We’d get it twice a week. We still get it. The Sentinel. He votes by, what is it?





	U1:	Absentee ballot? M:	Absentee ballot.

	B:	You want to get some good news get CNN. CNN2, not CNN1. CNN2. H:	The Headline News?

	B:	Yeah. That crazy woman, who she—? [Laughter] Nancy, you know, Grace.



	Nancy tell it to you, boy! [Laughter] H:	Nancy Grace?

	B:	I watch that at night after the ballgame. When the ballgame go off, I [inaudible 58:26] [Laughter]

	M:	He loves the ballgame.



	B:	I believe Nancy [inaudible 58:34]! [Laughter] H:	So you like basketball?

	B:	Baseball.



	H:	Oh, baseball, baseball. M:	He love Gator basketball.

	H:	And Gator basketball. Like the Gators?



	B:	Oh, yeah, yeah, I like the Gators. I watch the Gators in football and basketball. Sometimes, I can’t get ‘em sometimes. When they playing off somewhere, or they playing on another different station I can’t pick up sometimes.

	D:	Do you remember listening to ballgames on the radio? Do you remember the radio, listening to the game on the radio?

	B:	Yeah. I remember when it wasn’t no radio. I remember when there wasn’t no gramophone. I know all that, back then. Way back when. We used to live in the





dark ages. Because you come from where I come from, we lived in the dark ages. White or Black, it was the dark ages.

	H:	So during the Civil Rights Movement, when that was going on, what do you remember from that period, living here?

	B:	Oh, I had to change my phone number. With Martin Luther King, I had to change my phone number.

	H:	Why was that?



	B:	They said I was [inaudible 1:00:32], but I wasn’t. “I seen your car [inaudible 1:00:37].” Yeah, wasn’t even there. He would be picketing, you know. Now, I used to be afraid of buying new cars, something like that. Man, make these White folks crazy! Yeah, “Nigger got a new car!” Yeah, right here. Go on down to that ditch with a shotgun. “What you doing out there in the ditch?” “Well, mister, I lost something.”

	H:	So do you think things are better now, or worse? In terms of race relations?



	B:	Oh, it’s a thousand times better now. [Laughter] Not a hundred, a thousand



times. Thousand times better, yeah.



	D:	I heard in those days, you had to buy the car in Jacksonville or Orlando, because they wouldn’t let you buy those cars in Gainesville or around this area? Is that true? When you bought a new car, you had to go out of town to buy a new car, you couldn’t buy a new car in the area?

	B:	Oh, I bought mine right there in Palatka. I’d tell them I want a car, I’d go work, come back, and [1:02:22]. Brand new car, [inaudible 1:02:26], with the keys in it. Yeah, you’d be gone. Now, I done that, that ain’t no lie; I done that right here.





That’s what the peoples didn’t like. Because I done things that they couldn’t— they didn’t do; I don’t know if they could’ve done it or not. I’ve done things that they didn’t do, Black and White. They didn’t like that. No. Didn’t like that at all. I worked for myself. I’d take that moss from them trees? I’d work enough moss right here in this same field, right here, had enough moss right here to pay for a brand new car. She could tell you that.

	M:	Called him “Moss Man.” [Laughter]



	B:	Riding a [19]55 Studebaker. Tell him, “Now, I want that car.” [Inaudible 1:03:28] in the yard.

	H:	He was a White man?



	B:	Yeah. Went out there and leave it. He wouldn’t be there. He bring it out there and leave it. Leave the keys in it.

	U2:	Hey Granddad, now, earlier you said that the White and the Black people didn’t like to see you have, or grow in what you had. Which one was worse? Was it worse that the Black people did you wrong, or was it worse that the White people did you wrong?

	B:	It was both of them.



	U2:	Yeah, but I’m saying, which one was worse? Was it worse coming from your own people?

	B:	One’s about as bad as the other. You see, they didn’t want to work. I worked. I worked for what I got. Nobody give me nothing. Still now. I ain’t never got a nickel from the government, no kinds of things like that. I went to work, out. They’d sit around and drink and things, I’d be working. I had mine, they didn’t. They doing





drunk things now. [Laughter] I got what I wanted. And I can go to [inaudible 1:05:11]. Sometimes, I wouldn’t have to get the insurance. Didn’t have nothing, sometimes I would have nothing. I could get something. They thought I had it, but I didn’t. [Laughter]

	D:	Did you used to go hunting around here? M:	Oh my, oh my God! I forget about that.

	H:	I had a gun question, too.



	M:	Shoot, he had guns, and he’ll answer it.



	D:	What kind of animals did you hunt around here?



	B:	Oh, anything. Gators, and coons, opossums, anything. I killed a lot of them coons and things. It was during the week at night, I’d go out killing them coons and things. I’d go to town on weekends, I’d sell a lot of coons and things to live off of. Yeah, I’d give my money to my wife to go buy grocery and things, to live off of that. I didn’t have any financial problems, that’s more money in my pocket. The other people, they sat around drinking. [Laughter] Yeah.

	H:	Did you have lots of different kinds of guns? What kind of guns did you have? B:	Anything you wanted. Anything you wanted, I had it.

	M:	He had so many guns, in the fire, people started running. Because them guns were going off.

	U2:	All those bullets and stuff was going off.



	B:	I had .30-06s, .303s, .243s, .222s, .22, 12-gauge, 16, 14, all of that. All of that. M:	He can’t shoot now, but he still got it.

	D:	So when you got that new car, you weren’t too worried.





	M:	No, he wasn’t worried. [Laughter]



B:  I could shoot. I could shoot them, too. I had nothing I couldn’t shoot. But being [inaudible 1:08:07], that’s all right. And like it now.

	D:	Who taught you how to shoot?



B:   My daddy. My daddy bought me a single-shot .22 when I was about ten years old. Single shot. Where you’d go out and shoot the squirrels or things like that. There wasn’t nothing I couldn’t shoot. My dad was a good marksman. All of my brothers was good marksmen.

	D:	Did he teach you how to cook the squirrels and—? M:	Oh, here we go with that. Here we go!

	U2:	He loves to cook. He still cooks. Grandma don’t cook. He does all the cooking.



He loves to cook.



	M:	You married me, now you got to cook for me. [Laughter] B:	Yeah, I like to cook. I like to eat. [Laughter]

	U3:	He don’t wait on nobody to cook nothing for him. But you know, granddaddy in there, he done cooked him some lunch, breakfast, dinner, whatever. You better come on while it’s hot. He’ll tell you quick.

	M:	He got a [inaudible 1:09:26]. U3:	I know, about the grits. I forget.

	B:	Yeah, I’ll go in there right now and put something together. M:	He’s a good husband. Good provider.

	B:	I love to eat, boy. I like to eat too much. D:	Who taught you how to cook?





	B:	My mother. I had small standing box I used to put down by the stove. You get up that wood stove, and get up on that box, and I cooked. Yeah, all my sisters and brothers know how to cook. You learn yourself how to cook. If you learn, you don’t have to go hungry, you don’t have to depend on somebody else to cook something for you, you do it yourself.

	M:	[On phone] Yeah, the University of Florida kids are here. Okay… U2:	Kids? Y’all ain’t no kids! They grown men! [Laughter]

	M:	Well, I’m seventy-eight years old. U2:	They kids to you. [Laughter]

	D:	Say whatever you like!



	H:	I think it’s an honor to talk to you, to talk to somebody who’s lived for almost a hundred years now. And you have so much wisdom and experience from a century that you’ve lived in this country.

	B:	You have to talk a little louder, because sometimes I can only hear—



	H:	Oh, I’m sorry. No, I just said it’s an honor to talk to you, because you’ve been here for almost a century in this country. I say, Obama should come talk to you, ask you some questions about what he should do.

	M:	Oh yeah, he got the answers. H:	Did you hear me?

	B:	No, I didn’t hear anybody, I don’t understand—.



	H:	Okay, no, I just said because you’ve lived for one hundred years now. I said President Obama, he needs to come talk to you. He can learn some stuff from you.





B:  Yeah, I could give him a tip or two on some things. What the government need to do, they don’t do, they do the wrong things. The government is paying people not to farm. They ought to be paying people to farm. See what I’m talking about?

That would help the country. We wouldn’t have to depend on other countries. You get stuff from another country, you don’t know what you’re getting. The same when they paying people not to do this, or don’t do that, don’t do this and don’t do that. The same money they could be putting into use to help themselves. But they [inaudible 1:12:54]. Talk about cheap labor, cheap labor don’t mean nothing. Then the people who are working, making hardly anything. They’re going strike for more money. But you and I can’t pay them. You got to benefit the man for the man to keep you. If you not a benefit to the man you’re working for, got you employed, he can’t afford to keep you. He running his own self out of a job, striking for more money. Then the man got to move—shut down, or else move to lower wages. He hurting his own self, that’s hurting your own self. For greed. A dollar don’t mean anything. You got a dollar today, you die, you’re going leave it. You can’t take it with you. You live while you’re here the best you can, get along the best you can. Have the best you can. Don’t worry about somebody, what somebody else got. You don’t know how they got it, you don’t know what kind of torment they going through with to keep it. You do what you going to do.

Look at yourself first. Say, “Okay, what can I do to help me?” A lot people say, “Oh, So-and-so, he got so-and-so,” but you going jump up, you head over heels in debt. For them to have somebody there. No he can’t do it. No, it’s not what he can do. Well, you know what his income is. If he’s messing up, that’s his own





business. Work like other man, work like you. And you work today, make a thousand dollars a day, and spend a thousand dollars a night, you just wasn’t—. [Laughter]

	H:	At all. That’s true.



	M:	He talking about them baseball players.



	B:	I tell them, you just as wealthy and you done got rid of it, ain’t going to do you no good!

	H:	You right, you right. You right.



	B:	Work today, put down a nickel or two for tomorrow, nickel or two for the next day. You ain’t going to get rich doing it, but you have enough to live off of. Keep your way in, don’t look back, keep your way in. Most men don’t spend all their money. You can go hungry, you can go hungry with a dollar in your pocket, that’s as good as you can go hungry when you’re broke. You can be broke and go hungry, you can have a dollar in your pocket and go hungry. You might need that dollar for something else more better than you being hungry. You don’t know what’s going to come up. [Inaudible 1:16:53]. Or some other hard problem I get through. You got a nickel or two to go there with. If you going spend it, you ain’t got nothing. Then you got to look back to someone else to help you. Just prepare for tomorrow; if you don’t, you’ll never get there.

	H:	So has that been kind of like your secret all these years? Prepare for tomorrow? M:	He teach his granddaughter that, too.





	B:	Prepare for tomorrow if it never get there. Tomorrow ain’t coming to you nohow. You living today, tomorrow you’ll be dead. That’s what I want to tell you. Prepare for it anyway.

	H:	Is there anything you want to leave for the record? Or anything you want to say?



A lot of things? We got an audience for you.



	B:	Yeah, I would just go ahead on and live right and do right, and do the best you can. And treat everybody right. You ain’t going to get nowhere treating somebody wrong. You can bet on that. God don’t—you don’t back down from God’s problems. God [inaudible 1:19:08] because, if you on drugs you ain’t going prosper, either. And you can bet on that, too. You have a day tomorrow, you ain’t got it. [Inaudible 1:19:23]. Somehow, or somewhere, it’ll go. Now take a tip from a fool about living that. I’ve been there. [Inaudible 1:19:44] as you can. And look to the Heaven, what’s going be your help. Because God’s your help, come from God and only God. Only God can help you.

	M:	Amen!



	B:	Man can’t help you. He say he can, but he can’t. U3:	He can’t help himself.

	B:	You come so far, and then so far [inaudible 1:20:12]. God ain’t got no [inaudible 1:20:20] for you.

	D:	Did you want to do an interview as well?



	M:	Not really. [Laughter] I ain’t got nothing to say. Charlie done said it all. D:	Would you like to interview her?

	M:	No, she, she, she.





	U3:	No, he asked, did I want to interview you. M:	Oh my God, no! [Laughter]

	D:	It seem like she want to interview you!



	H:	It seem like she got some questions for you.



	U3:	No, it’s just that Grandma’s such a good person. And I’m not saying—my grandfather’s excellent too. But Grandma, she’s a good person and she’s always in the background. And I want people to know about her. Because she has contributed a lot to this community as well as Grandfather, so that’s why I wanted her to be interviewed.

	D:	Okay, so this is what I’ll do then. I’ll stop this tape and we’ll start a new tape. And then we’ll get you, and if anybody else wants to jump in—let me know if I’m asking you something I’m not supposed to, and I’ll stop. [Laughter]

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Richard Brust, September 21, 2015 Audit edited by:	Ryan Morini, June 13, 2018

	Final edited by:	Ryan Morini, February 24, 2019