AAHP 332; Harris; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 332 Nathaniel Harris African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Paul Ortiz on May 16, 2014

1 hour, 24 minutes | 40 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 332

Interviewee: Nathaniel Harris Interviewer: Paul Ortiz

Date: May 16, 2014



	O:	All right, we are here today. This is May 16th, 2014. We are at the wonderful building sanctuary in Macedonia Missionary Baptist Church in Melbourne, Florida and we are with Reverend Nathaniel Harris, who is the Pastor of Macedonia.

First of all, thank you Rev. Harris for being with us and agreeing to do the interview and hosting us and having us to your wonderful church.

	H:	Thank you, more than happy. I’m the one that should be saying thank you for you all coming to do this because the vision that God has given us for 2014 and however it extends out is on genealogy oral history and I really love history. I love the oral aspect of it and I’m working on it for my family background already, I’ve been doing it for a number of years now, accumulating from ages. But I’ve never had the opportunity to be instructed or share in how to do this from an organized way and so this is really exciting for me to get the input and see how it actually can be done. So thank you all for coming.

	O:	Well, you’re welcome. We want to start, Pastor Harris with some family history and then to see a little later how that intersects with Macedonia.

	H:	Okay.



	O:	I wonder if you could tell me something of your youth growing up, the community you grew up in, your parents, the kind of values that you grew up with?

	H:	Alright sure. I was born in Mobile, Alabama, stayed there until I became 18 and went in the military. My parents are from the Alabama area. My father is from Camden, Alabama. And my mother then is from Atmore, Alabama. And so I grew up of a family of four children, I’m the second of four and my mother and father,





we grew up together but then they divorced very early in my life when I was about—I guess I was about seven years old when my father and left and moved to Ohio and so in that time period as I’ve always perceived my grandmother and grandfather help my mother to raise us and so that legacy of my grandparents were very strong. It was my grandmother that really started develop within me the history of our family. She would sit me down and we would talk and I’m very interested in what she had to share so now it has come to a point where even today where my grandmother and grandfather are both deceased and my mother as well but I’m able to glean from what she taught me, what she shared with me and I’m now very much interested in reunions, organizing reunions, back in Mobile. I’m the only child that moved out of Mobile. My other siblings are there still and we’ll come together from time to time and have little get-togethers, especially Mobile is a Mardi Gras place. So I don’t knew that the first Mardi Gras came out of Mobile and not New Orleans so we have the big Mardi Gras celebrations there and I go back almost each year for that and I love family interactions so that’s an opportunity for me to share.

	O:	Pastor Harris, when you say your grandmother really gave you a sense of the family history, how far could she take you back in terms of taking about your family roots?

	H:	Okay. On my grandmother’s side thus far, I’ve gone back to 1820, that was during the census time period and back then it’s my great-grandfather and great- grandmother during that time period that’s as far as I’ve gone with it because the census seems to be the key for us. It was in the census that I found my





grandmother who was about 3 years old. Her oldest brother took them in because her mother and her father deceased very early in their lives so it was her brother that raised her and about 16 other—they had a family of about 17 kids and my grandmother ended up being in the middle of all of that so from them I’ve been able to contact quite a few of our immediate family members that lives in Camden—there’s some scattered, they’re in Camden, Alabama, in Clayton, Alabama and Mobile, Alabama that’s where they were. Montgomery and all of those areas.

	O:	What role did faith and religion play as a child growing up in your life?



	H:	Oh, God, major, major influence, my grandmother and grandfather. My grandfather was a Deacon in the church, my grandmother was a mother in the church and there always that attraction for me that my other brothers and first cousins did not draw from. I always loved to go places with my grandmother and grandfather with the church. When we go to family gatherings in different places like Ardmore, Alabama, I always wanted to be there. I was one of the ones that said “Can I go, can I go?” Anytime they would have the preachers or pastors over for dinner, I wanted to be there, to be a part of it. I loved Preachers. Okay and as a child and didn’t realize how important that became for me. Now, as a preacher, as a pastor, now never, never thought about one day I would be a pastor, never had a strong desire to until the spirit of God really moved on me and I became strong and when I first accepted my calling, the very first person I called was my grandmother, “Grandmamma, what should I do?” And her words to me was, “You child,” I was 50 something years old then—





	O:	Wow. [Laughter]



	H:	She was 97 somewhere in there and she would say, “You child, just listen to God, let God lead and guide you,” and religion has always been very strong in our family and continues today. The exciting part is I went back once I got here, went back to her hometown and my oldest brother and I and I had already done some research where the church was located that she was raised up in and so forth and when I went back there and when we went to the church and it’s a little small church and I have some pictures of it that I didn’t bring.

	O:	What is the name of the church?



	H:	It’s Gravel Creek Baptist Church in Camden, Alabama. O:	Camden, Alabama?

	H:	Yeah and man, when we pulled up there I was so excited and my oldest brother, you know we in the truck together and he’s just looking and I started to cry and “Look, look, here’s the church, here’s the church!” And he was looking like, “Okay why are you getting so excited?” And what happened was, I got out of the truck and as they have in most of the old towns like that, the graveyard was on the side of the church right there and so we went over to the graveyard and I started seeing names of relatives and names of individuals that my grandmamma had told me about and man it just blew me out the water. It was so exciting. So now I go back, we go back each year. Every year, the first Sunday of August, they have a family and friends day at this little Gravel Creek Baptist Church and we’ve been going back to it every year since then and that’s been about eight years





now that we’ve been going back and we plan to go this coming first Sunday in August.

	O:	That’s a great story. Pastor Harris as you were coming of age as a young boy maybe in middle school and high school, you mentioned earlier that you’re one of the family who eventually moved out of Mobile. But as a young boy growing up, when did you first start thinking about maybe leaving and did you have aspirations at that time, were you think about a job, were you thinking about the military?

	H:	My mother had the actual, my 12th grade coming—what graduation was in the end of May so probably about April sometime, my mother started talking with me about what did I want to do and she said “If you want to go to college I’ll do my very best to help you and to support you on that,” and my words to her was, “No I would like to go in the military first because I know that mama you can’t afford to send me to college, okay and I think if I go in the military I can get the GI Bill and then I can come back and then go to college from there” but that was my major aspiration was to go into the military because we really didn’t have the financial support that we needed. Thank God for my grandmother and grandfather who supported my mother and helped us so then I went into the military air force for 4 years and sure enough got the GI Bill and came back.

	O:	What year did you graduate from high school? H:	1966.

	O:	So this was a Vietnam era?





	H:	Exactly and that’s where I ended up, in Vietnam. When I went in the air force I did my basic training at Lackland Air Force Base in San Antonio, Florida and from there I went to, which is now a closed base, Kincheloe, Michigan. It’s on the Canada-United States border there and I was there. And from there because it was 35 below 0 in May when I was there. I asked the Commander as he welcomed me in. I said, “Well what’s the quickest way for me to get out of here?” and he said “Volunteer for Vietnam.” Biggest mistake I ever made. Okay? I learned then, never volunteer in the military for nothing. So I ended up in Vietnam for a year, from 1967 through 1968, which included the Tet Offensive, which was one of the major attacks that took place in Vietnam, that made the change that began to go more into the Vietnam—Vietnamese taking over or taking back from us—

	O:	Right.



	H:	—what we had done there.



	O:	Where were you when that Tet Offensive started?



	H:	Bien Hoa, Vietnam. I was a military policeman so my work was always at night. I would go to work right before day, so right before the sun set, as the setting of the sun and work until midnight and thereafter. So, that time period was a crucial time period because that’s when they would actually bombard the bases, the air force bases, the rockets, and the mortars, and so forth and that Tet Offense, that was the greatest force at the time because they have what we have was you were on alert. They would always tell you, give you these intelligent reports saying the “Vietcongs are moving here, they’re moving there.” And so they had





told us that they were moving toward our area. Bien Hoa is about 60 miles from Saigon. We were North of Saigon and so I was on alert the night of the Tet Offensive and I had been there about 6 months already and we had gotten used to the alerts so we took ‘em for granted and hours laying in my bunk, the top bunk when they started the Tet Offensive and the first rocket hit right outside of my bunk and knocked all of us to the ground, knocked me out of my top bunk and so we grabbed our weapons and they told us to go out to the perimeter because the Vietcongs were now entering in the perimeter so we got on our trucks with our weapons and we went toward to where they were seen and sure enough as we were driving there, bullets starting hitting the trucks and so we had to jump out the trucks because the lights were on, it was at night and so forth and so we had to take cover at that point and our cover was in a gully and we ended up in that gully for 3 days and it took the army, which was long been where the army base was. They had to come in with helicopters and bail us out there after 3 days of fighting there so, the most miserable time that I had and at that time I was 19 years old.

	O:	That must’ve been terrifying.



	H:	It was terrifying. It was scary, yeah, very scary.



	O:	Well, one of the things, Pastor Harris, I was gonna mention to you is we also work with the Library of Congress in gathering narratives from veterans and if you’d like to participate in that we’ll just give you some paperwork you can fill out and we send those interviews, they’re at UF but also they go to the Library of Congress so I think your narrative would be very good.





	H:	Oh, sure. Great, I’d be glad to.



	O:	But as you know in the civil service and military, you’ll have to fill out some paperwork.

	H:	Oh yeah. [Laughter] Always paperwork. O:	[Laughter] Always paperwork.

	H:	Yeah, yeah.



	O:	Pastor Harris, were there anymore experiences from Vietnam that you would like to share of do you wanna kinda move to the next?

	H:	Well, sure. It was terrifying enough that my last 6 months, which was in Vietnam as a young man coming back was a very sad situation. As I came back into San Francisco, it was also the time of protest of the Vietnam war and that was the most sad thing for me because I had given myself to this war and fought and life on the line and watched some of my friends and colleagues get killed as well and we used to carry the bodies off as they were killed and the Vietcongs, we had to move their bodies and bury them in massive graves and so forth and for me to come back as a young man and see all the protests and just no recognition, it wasn’t in the United States something to be proud of, okay? To wear the uniform or to be coming from Vietnam because of the protests and it really hurt very much so, okay, very sad, very sad situation. But couple of things that happened in terms of the talk of traumatic experience, my very first night and quite a few nights after that at home, cause they give you the 30 days on leave. I was awakened one night by my mother and when she woke me up I had built a blanket bunker in the bathroom, nobody in my family could come in the bathroom





and I was down inside the bathroom as though—because in Vietnam that’s what I did as a military policeman on the outside perimeter. We had to build bunkers because when the rockets start to come in, you had to hide somewhere so we would have to jump down in the bunkers and so forth so we would actually build em, the better you built yours, the more you could protect yourself. Well, I had built these bunkers in my mother’s house in the bathroom to protect myself from that, from what I had been dreaming that night and imagining myself that I was still in Vietnam. The other one was once I came back to the States and I was at Tacoma Washington Air Force Base, McChord Air Force Base and then transferred to Mount Hebo, which was a air force station about 8 miles up on the top of a mountain overlooking Portland, Oregon. I was walking at noon time going to the child home my first day there and all of a sudden these alarms, they have a 12 o clock alarm to go off just to say its 12 o clock on the base and I didn’t know what that was about, okay? The air force station, it was so high up, we had wind tunnels. You went from your dorm to the cafeteria to your duty stations, your radar, all in those tunnels, you know because of the wind and the snow and so as the alarm went off, it was the same alarm that we had in Vietnam and I ran over—it was a group of us walking and I just started running because that’s the first thing you did in Vietnam was to take cover because of the bomb. So that scared me so bad that I was running and they said, “Hey what’s wrong with you?” I said, “Oh God, you know, the alarm it’s a Vietnam alarm.” They said, “Well you in Oregon now, you know, you not over there any longer.” And that was a traumatic experience for me as well as a young fella. But God is keeping me and





sustain. Even now I do still have the dreams, the feelings of not being appreciated. We would actually—We had the basketball courts and the things on the base but we found that during the day, the mothers, we called them Mamasan, Mamasan, they would bring ‘em on the base and we would pay them like $3 a week, they’d iron and wash our clothes and so forth. They found that the Mamasans, some of the Mamasans was actually taking our post stations where we are at night and feeding them to the Vietcong so they had to try to stop somewhere just to prevent them from getting that kind and that was right when the Tet Offensive started that we had that kind of – you feel like they’re happy and loving on you and yet at night they would come in there and be shooting at you and tryna kill you. That was a bad experience, as well.

	O:	Pastor Harris you mentioned earlier about the GI Bill and when you came back to the United States, what were you thinking in terms of possible directions to take in your life?

	H:	Okay. When I came back and finished my four year term in the air force I immediately signed up to go to college. The interesting thing about it was if I was gonna go to college there, I was accepted at and I went to Howard University in Washington, D.C. and I had to be there in September. And so my time period for getting out of the service was not till October and so I was called into—I was a sergeant during the time and I was called into my commander’s office where he began to give me my reenlistment spiel about re-upping again and I cut him off. I said, “excuse me sir,” I said “I appreciate all of that but I really wanted to ask you to give me an early out so I can go to college cause I’m certainly not staying in





the military.” Yeah and he said, “Well you seem convinced.” So he actually signed for me to actually get an early out and I got out in August so then I could leave there and then go to Washington, D.C. to Howard University, where I did go and graduated from Howard with a B.S. degree in Accounting, Business Administration.

	O:	What was the climate like in the United States? And you mentioned, you talked about the anti-war protest but what was it like a young, African American man going to this amazing, historically Black college and all of the changes taking place, you mentioned Dr. King in our earlier discussions. Can you give us like a sense of what was in the air in the early [19]70’s?

	H:	Okay. Besides the protests, I was excited about D.C. I had never seen such nobleness, educated people, especially Black people, as educated and in various positions. Patricia Harris is the one I think of. Andrew Young. All of these people graduated from Howard and I was just overwhelmed and in a good sense that I was going to a school that the educated people were a part of; Thurgood Marshall and all of these in the D.C. area. So D.C. was an exciting place. A lot of activities, a lot of partying, a lot of- it was exciting. It was just an exciting place. I thank God that I did go into the military because I matured. I don’t think I could have dealt with the D.C. Howard area from 18 years old but when I came out of the military I knew what I was seeking. I knew that I was going for the education and the GI Bill was the answer so I didn’t get involved in a lot of partying, I didn’t get involved in a lot of the things—the protesting that was going on in the D.C. area around the White House. Surely, I would go in my moving about D.C. I





would go by the White House where all the protests, the Washington Monument and Smithsonian and all of these things so it still was exciting to me, it was very exciting for me but I was determined that I was about education at that time but there was a lot going on there.

	O:	Were you thinking in terms of a career then or were you really focusing on just getting the degree or both?

	H:	Both.



	O:	Okay.



	H:	I’ll always remember that my counselor, he would counsel with me and I asked him one time, I said, “What I want is a job to make some money,” because my mother alright had two younger sibling and I was strong in wanting to support my mother and I asked myself, “What is the best career that I should go for?” because I want to be able to work, I want a job when I graduate. I don’t want to have to go for a Master’s degree or nothing, I need the money. And so he told me, he says, “Stay in accounting.” “Accounting is a wide open area where they’re doing a lot of hiring. If you can deal with the accounting then I suggest that you stay in that area,” and that’s what I did. I worked on the accounting, I worked hard on it and got a job soon as I graduated—matter of fact, I got a job before I graduated with the Interstate Commerce Commission in D.C. It’s a federal agency that controlled transportation over the nation. So they hired me and they said “When you graduate, just come on and we have a”—so I started working with the Interstate Commerce Commission and in D.C. I got married in my senior year, so that was important to me because my wife and I lived in D.C. right off of





Georgia Avenue, which was one of the larger avenues in D.C. area and so from there after I started working there, my wife was working prior to—so she was stronger support for our income and living and once I graduated we moved to Nashville, Tennessee, the two of us and then from there then I was a government auditor, senior auditor for Tennessee and Kentucky so I did all the railroads, I audited the railroads, L&N Railroads, I would go to Chicago for the Illinois Central Radio and Georgia so the railroads and trucking companies were my main- board lines and so forth. Anything that did interstate transportation, I was an auditor for that and so that’s where my career began to blossom from there.

	O:	We were talking a little earlier about Dr. King. Do you remember where you were when you first heard that Dr. King had been assassinated?

	H:	Vietnam. April of [19]68, April of [19]68 yeah, Vietnam. Vietnam. The most traumatic experience I had. What made is really so traumatic was Vietnam you fight together, side by side, race wise. You’re all working together and fighting together and when the word came that he had been killed, for many of the other Caucasian races and so forth, it was a joke. It was a laughing matter for them, okay? And it brought a lot of tension and division among us, all of us, White, Black because so many were taken and you know, they were glad that he had been killed and yet here I was and many others, many other Blacks who were so torn up about it. Some of ‘em would get involved in skirmishes and fights at the various places on base but I never did do any of that, you know. My demeanor, my attitude was one of well, we still will have to live together, we still have to





work together. But it brought a great division between the races during that time period there in Vietnam, you know. And it hurt because you know, at one time you calling each other buddies and friends. We playing ball together. We fighting together, you know, we doing all this together and then for them to do that, it hurt. It hurt for them too. You know, laugh about it or say, “I’m glad he’s gone, I’m glad they got him, somebody finally killed him,” you know, some of it very traumatic for me.

	O:	Pastor Harris you mentioned now when you started working as an accountant, now I know eventually you ended up in the northwest, and could you talk about, kinda give many an overview of your career and then also what was your religious life like during that time period? Were you a member of a church?

	H:	Okay, yeah. Um, I just preached a message this past Sunday and shared with ‘em that it’s Mother’s Day, it was Mother’s Day this past Sunday and I shared with them that my religious, even though I was baptized at 9 years old, very close to my grandparents, in church every Sunday, all day, you know, in church. Um, after being baptized, 9 years old and, I had promised myself when I graduated from high school, I wasn’t going back to church, okay? I was through with church because they had church me out and so when I went to Vietnam, totally changed my life because when the first bomb dropped that I was involved in the Marauders, “M22 rockets” we used to call ‘em, the first one to drop, that next day, the next morning I was in church. [Laughter] Hadn’t gone back to church after I graduated from high school but soon as that first bomb dropped it shocked me so bad I went to church.





	O:	Yes, sir.



	H:	That’s where I started my religion. But—



	O:	They say there’s no atheist in foxholes, right? [Laughter]



	H:	That’s right. You will call on the name of the Lord, whoever he is. Yeah, exactly right. And so I started going back to church at that point but it wasn’t until I met my wife in college, I met her in college in a class and once we got married she was faithful in her commitment to the Lord and so I’d layup at home on Sundays. I was an athlete in college, I was on a full scholarship swimming and diving, swimming and diving scholarship. So, Sundays was my day of rest, okay? And I would actually just stay there at home and rest on the sofa and watch the sports and so forth and my wife would consistently go to church on Sunday and so eventually it impacted me. Her life and commitment to the Lord impacted me so it was in D.C. that I started to go back to church and started to really commit myself. Well after we—

	O:	Which church was it?



	H:	Oh, God. Metropolitan Baptist Church in Washington, D.C. Yeah, so after we moved to Nashville, together we joined a church in Nashville, Mt. Olive Baptist Church and then from there we joined with a young man at Tennessee State University, he was a preacher and so we were all young so we got together and started a church together there, a storefront church and so because I was the old—I was about 22 then, I was the oldest of all the people there so I was made the elder of the church, a deacon of the church there so that’s where I really started to get to know the Lord and my wife and I drew even closer together.





Nashville was where our kids, we have two kids that were born in D.C. there and then from D.C. my religious experiences started to expand and grow because of our commitment to the Lord and then we moved from Nashville down to Jacksonville, Florida, where I was a major senior auditor at the L&N Railroads and all of the other trucking companies there and we joined with churches, wherever we would move, we would both join churches and as a deacon from Nashville, I was always made an officer in the church that we united with and so it was there that we committed and I continued to grow in the Lord so when we moved down to this area, I changed from—when Interstate Commerce Commission closed, it was the oldest agency in the country, in our nation so Congress and the President decide to shut it down and from there, I came to the Department of Defense and that’s where I came to the Kennedy Space Center, Cape Canaveral and all the major contractors in the AM Defense Contractors on the East Coast of Florida here so that’s when we moved down to this area.

	O:	Pastor Harris I want to ask you some questions about Macedonia but I wonder before that, now you talked about your religious experiences, being baptized at age 9 and the continuity in your life, or one of the major continuities seems to be within the Baptist faith and as you know within African American religious traditions there’s a lot of diversity, there’s the AME Church, there’s Baptist, there’s Pentecostal and different, what is it about the Baptist church that speaks to the African American experience?

	H:	The Baptist church was how I was raised, how I was born and reared in the Baptist—my grandparents were Baptist, okay? So I believe that it’s more just the





way you were actually born into that you were established, that’s the way it was for me and my family, okay? I was born in a Baptist church, so I stayed with the Baptist church. I went non-denominational during that short, brief time in Nashville when we started that church there, okay? It was called Christian Fellowship Church. It was nondenominational. But once we moved from Nashville, we reunited with another Baptist Church. My wife was Baptist, as well, all of her bringing up. Now, in her bringing up, her mother was Baptist and her father was AME, so he was an AME pastor, so she was between the two of them but they got along very well together. I mean she would go to both churches, you know, from [inaudible 36:22] sharing with me but I’ve always been the Baptist, only because it was my background. Especially now, I’ll interact, re-interact with them, AME, the Methodist, we interact with anybody that believes in Jesus Christ, is the main point. That’s the main emphasis of it. So it’s not about Baptist, it’s not about Methodist, it’s not about AME for me, it’s about Christ and I can interact with anyone that would like to interact with me on those basis and like I told you, Gravel Creek, where my grandmother was born, 3 years old—it’s Gravel Creek Baptist Church, so it’s just a family, shall I say traditional family commitment to the Baptist church that we were, always a part of.

	O:	And Pastor Harris can you talk about your pathway to Macedonia Missionary Baptist?

	H:	Sure, sure. First experience was actually moving into the area when I moved here with the Department of Defense. First thing that I automatically wanted to do is join a church, so I came and my family was still in Jacksonville, my wife was a





counseling teacher at Edward Waters College in Jacksonville and so we had two children, a girl and a boy. I always from the offset wanted because I traveled, throughout my career with the job. I would come home on Fridays and leave on Mondays and be gone the whole week and come back. Well, I always took my son with me. He was young and he wasn’t in school at that point so I worked all over the nation so my main work was in Atlanta, Georgia so we would fly to Atlanta, my little son he was about 3 years old and I would put him—we would live in a motel, I put him in Kindergarten, he was in school and so on Fridays we’d come home, fly home and then we’d go back on Mondays, wherever I would actually work. Well, with that in mind when we moved here my son and I, were moved to Daytona where my wife is from and we stayed with her parents there, while she was completing her last year at Edward Waters College in terms of her teaching there and so when we moved down here, I came to the Melbourne, Palm Bay area and then went, just asked around for where the various churches were. I must admit we always look for a Black church. Always look for a predominately Black church. It’s just we felt comfortable that way so I would actually go to the different churches and you know, be in the services, my son and I during, you know, on Sundays we’d go back to Jacksonville, we’d stay down here and go to church so I came to Macedonia, as well as to, [inaudible 39:41] some of the other churches and we felt comfortable. I felt comfortable coming here so when my wife finished and we all moved down here then I took her to the various churches and we agreed that we would attend church in Macedonia so we joined Macedonia and I just began to work in Macedonia. I





became the Youth Minister here and worked as a Deacon and then the pastor here, once I accepted my calling, he ordained me as a minister here at Macedonia so I ended up working my regular job, my Department of Defense job, as well as, working in the church, [inaudible 40:23], not on payroll but volunteer work and once the church retired the pastor, he was of age and they retired him and they asked me was I gonna—The pulpit committee was doing their searching for a pastor and I never applied, okay? And so the officers of Macedonia came to me and asked me, was I gonna apply to be the Pastor of Macedonia? I said, “Not really.” I hadn’t thought about actually doing it because I’m still working a job. They said, well give us an application anyway so they had 10 forms, finalists for consideration as pastor here and I was number 10 on their recommendation of the pulpit committee but the church members elected me pastor over all the others, okay? So I was elected pastor and so I was bi- vocational while I was still working my job then I was also Pastor in Macedonia, as well and that went on for about 10 years and then I finally retired from the government, well I resigned from the government so that I could just go full time in the church and then once I reached 55, then I retired because I wasn’t old enough. I had the years with the government, I had 29 years but I didn’t have the age to retire. So once I got to age, turned 55, then I retired from the government and became full time pastor here. That was almost about 15, I’ve been pastor here for 23 years now so it was about 15 years ago that I actually gave up the job, retired.





	O:	Reverend Harris, when did you and your wife first become members of Macedonia?

	H:	1988, I think it was, yeah. Cause we moved to Jacksonville in [19]86 and moved out here in [19]88 so somewhere in that time period of 1988.

	O:	And then you were on the Board of Deacons? H:	Yes.

	O:	What were some of the challenges, Pastor Harris that Macedonia faced during those years and how did the Board of Deacons approach those challenges?

	H:	Okay. When I became pastor, we had just this portion of the church here. We didn’t have the second story building, I don’t know, the family life center, it wasn’t there so we were tight. We were close. The church was continuing to grow. We were spiritually doing very well and the love of – that’s what drew us to Macedonia, was the love, the fellowship that the people, the concern for one another, concern for the community. So, with that in mind, when we actually joined together with them, we were starting to bust out, what we call “burst at the scene” and so I’ve recommended to the church that we build the family life center and so that’s what actually did. They took the recommendation and we built the family life center for—and then we became very strong in outreach Evangelism through the community. It never was a financial situation for us, never a financial burden for us because the people were always willing to give very strong and so because I mentioned to you when I first came here, I became Youth Minister in the church and the youth became very strong and very close at this church. It was then and still now is a very strong ministry of this church and so the people





began to rally and I believe that’s why they asked me to become the pastor because of the relationship that I had with the youth. I was a Cub Scout Master, I was the Boy Scout Master, I would take them out to the bases and we would camp out at night and go through all of those things and I began to do drama ministry within the church as we would go from church to church so Macedonia has always been a very close and loving church. Not a lot of struggles but we did have our difficulties and problems along the way, okay? But we always seem to work through the challenges. You gonna always have some saying one thing and others saying something else but we worked through the challenges that we had.

	O:	What were some of the challenges that Macedonia did have in those years? H:	In those years

	O:	And how were able to resolve those?



	H:	Okay. One of the major challenges was for agreeing in business meetings. I would say business meetings was always the roughest part, okay? Because of the opinions of everybody, okay? And a lot of differences of opinions. A lot of arguments in the business meetings. A lot of “you don’t know, you’re young, you don’t know what you’re talking about,” and so forth. I don’t know if you want to edit some but Macedonia, not Macedonia, but the officers, some of the officers of Macedonia decided that they would lock me out of the church, okay? They put me out the church. Just unexpectedly, out of the blue. I came in to work, I put my key in the door and it wouldn’t open the door, okay? And I went, “What is it?” So I tried some of the other door and it wouldn’t work. So I asked the secretary, I said, your door work? Your key work? She said, “Yeah but you need to talk with the





chairmens, the trustees, and the deacons” and so I talked with em and they said “You’re no longer a pastor of this church,” okay? I had gotten an emergency telegram to my house telling me not to come back, if I had anything, y’all gonna edit so I don’t wanna get too involved in the disappoint—but that was the major thing that happened but what happened with that was that it was just about 4 of the officers that did it, who were in control, they were in control of the legal aspects so they did that and so I called a meeting of the church, okay? And they came to a meeting, the Monday night really where they ended up that Monday night and 95% of the members stood up, because we took a vote as to where the church was gonna do, 95% of ‘em stood up and said, “Pastor, you’re the pastor of this church, do what you need to do to bring this church where it needs to be.” “Get rid of everyone that did that,” because they didn’t tell the church members, they just did it, the 4 of them did it and they say, “Get rid of ‘em., all of the officers of the church and you establish all the officers as you see fit for this church.” That was almost 15, well 10 years ago that that happened and we really haven’t had a really strong turbulence as that was since then. We’ve just been in, and really has been in harmony where the church actually- cause I mentioned the conferences was always devastating, always arguing, where we stopped the conferences and started having quarterly conferences because we didn’t need the turmoil, the fighting, and the arguing and so forth and since we moved, since the membership stood like that, we haven’t had any difficulties, really strong difficulties since then. Yeah, so that was one of the major issues that we dealt with.





	O:	Reverend Harris, could you describe the life of a pastor? Let’s say the day, like a typical day? I don’t know if there’s any such thing as a typical day because often times the congregation will see a pastor in front of the flock and doing things and preaching but sometimes we don’t know what goes on all during that day so could you describe kind of a day in your life as a pastor?

	H:	Okay, sure. Let me start with Sunday, okay? The preach word of God. We have two services, 8am and 10:45 services. I preach both services and I have—right now there is about 8-15 ministers here and I would use them for various occasions, various celebrations and sometimes just allow them to preach so that there is the sharing with them the doctrine of the Baptist church and so forth and the way that—each Baptist church for the most part is autonomous. That is nor or the association organization controls it so we make our own doctrine, our own bi- laws, our own amendments and so forth. Well with that in mind then, I train, share with them ministers own staff, meeting with the Deacons at twelve on Sundays then is a service. On the first Sundays we go to the nursing homes and render services there, use the ministers to preach men and women, okay? May I give you another issue that just came to me?

	O:	Yes, sir.



	H:	Alright. Women preachers, okay? This church is 122 years old, never have had a woman preacher in it. I brought the first women preachers to this church. Church accepted it. They just—of course some aren’t gonna agree with it but they accepted it. I ordained—that’s something that you don’t do in the Baptist Church, okay? Alright. I ordained women to be ministers, okay? Still, it’s still not readily





accepted. We are part of a association, district associations, state associations and national association. Our national, state, and districts do not accept women as preachers so that was something that—and I didn’t do it just to do it, I did it because I felt God led to me to do it, okay. And so we don’t have the difficulty any longer now that it’s accepted but it’s still not readily accepted in our national and state organizations. It just don’t happen, okay. And there women can be missionaries and so forth but not ministers or pastors, okay. So, that has been become an accepted thing here at Macedonia, that’s not – we are part of a association and churches dropped out because of my doing that, okay. They are no longer part of our association and things like that because they didn’t accept it. So that was one of the major things that transpired with us but we’ve even worked through that as it is now that we have at least 7 women on staff here as ministers on staff that preaches on a regular basis as the men would, as well.

	O:	Wow.



	H:	I said that and then the thought, the idea of the issues, back to the issues situation is that that was one of our major issues in the beginning but since it worked out then we don’t have any other concern, women are welcome and we have ‘em to come on a regular basis and join with us and we give them just as much respect and much responsibility and involvement as we do the men in the area. I think we – there may be a couple of other churches that have started to accept ‘em but for the most part, we’re still the only Baptist church in the area that accept women as ministers and ordain women, yeah.

	O:	What role does Macedonia play in the larger community?





	H:	Oh, God. We are spread thin. We are spread thin because I believe in the church catches the vision and the vision- because I believe in fellowshipping and family of the community as a whole. We are involved, we have a 5th Sunday union, which meets every 5th Sunday. I’ve been the president of it, I’ve the vice- president of it and I’ve been in charge of the accounting because of my background accounting for it, alright, and so we reach out in that. So when I say I’m me, what I do, or where I go, the church is involved, heavily involved. We have a strong benevolence outreach where whoever has a need, they can come to us and we desire to help, okay. So we give, we provide to help people with utility bills, we help people if they about to lose their house or something, we wanna help ‘em to sustain their place or to help them with that, okay. We do outreach. We go into various segments of the community and do missionary. The missionaries set up clothing, we give out clothing and food and we preach and we share Jesus. We go around through the areas. 2014 we are adopted specific areas that we are going into and helping, especially single mothers and uneducated people–we have a GED program here that goes forth where we use retired teachers to teach GED for community and it’s all free. We have anger management classes here where we’re part of that where if the court say, “You got anger problems and you need to go to anger management class for a certain period of time,” well we provide those classes here for that as well. We give regularly to the district association. District association covers from Daytona Beach down to Fesmire, Brevard County, Volusia County, and Fesmire is a part of not Ocala, Ocala? I get that wrong but we’re part of that District Association.





I’ve the president of that, I’ve been vice-president and I’m in charge of the accounting for that. The state I was a chief auditor for the state, auditor in charge of accounting for our state convention, okay. And so we’re a part of that and we’re a part of the national convention, as well that we operate in national convention is the National Baptist Association, USA, which is very- it is the largest Black association, national convention in the country right now. So we’re heavily involved, when I say spread thin, we’re heavily involved in the community cause we believe that you cannot be in the middle of a community and not be a part of the community. We have established homes, affordable homes, we partnership with the City of Melbourne and we’ve now built, we have a duplex that we built and 5 homes. You could see the churches surrounding about by those homes, affordable homes, so you have to be low-income in order to apply to live in a home. It has to be at least 3 people as a family but we have those affordable homes that we built and we provide ‘em to the community. We’re still in that area that they building homes. As the money get tight, then we have to losen up. You have to back off some. But because we believe that area the community, we are part of the community, you don’t just get in—you come to church on Sunday and then go back into your suburb place, you are a part of this community so let’s operate as a part of the community and so this church is surrounded by home that we’ve built in partnership with the city of Melbourne and we’re now partnershipping with Palm Bay, the City of Palm Bay, we’re at Palm Bay and Melbourne so for areas where we can help the community to grow and be strong. We have scholarships that we give to graduating seniors, high school





and college students, okay. You don’t have to be a member of our church to apply for the scholarship but the major portion do go to the students that we have here every year we get scholarships. We give large amounts of monies to almost every program, every association in the community that gives scholarships and have a program that identifies with the youth of – we give strongly to the sporting activities, we had sponsored baseball, football, basketball, we have community centers, we give to the community centers, as well. So we’re pretty well spread out there. Yeah, uh-huh.

	O:	Pastor, Harris, Macedonia is a very large church, many, hundreds of members. Could you describe what maybe some of the members like where do they come from? They live primarily here in Melbourne, what parts of the – and what are they like?

	H:	It’s a mixture. It’s a mixture. Jessie’s not from the Melbourne area. We do have a large number of members who are born and reared in Melbourne, Palm Bay that are members of our church and we have a lot as people coming to the area because of Patrick Air Force Base and the Space Center and the larger contract is you get a large influx of people, engineers and so forth that move into the area, alright and so they come in and so we have a strong mixture of people who live here and those who come in because of job placement and so forth. Yeah so it’s a large mixture.

	O:	Could you discuss your youth ministry and some of the challenges that youth face in the church?





	H:	Okay. The youth ministry is very strong here. We have a very strong performing arts ministry and it’s mainly the youth. We have a very strong youth choir here, as well and we go—we are invited because we freely go to the various and interact with other churches fellowship that matter about race, doesn’t matter about dominations but if you want us to come, we invite various churches to come and worship with us for special services and so forth and so we go a lot. Our youth are very strong in that area. We have a children performing arts as well as minds choir members and so forth so as a matter of fact we our own gospel programs that are sponsored by various musicians that come into the area and they’ll ask our youth to perform on their choirs. We currently have 5 choirs here, I think that we have a male chorus, we have an adult choir and we have a young adult choir and we have the youth choir as well. So our youth are involved, and then a number of our youth are involved in various other activities so we’re drawn to our community recreation centers for their special celebrations and so forth. Macedonia and it really makes me thank God for how we’re being used in the community because we’re called on and we respond to not just here but we’ll go to Daytona, we go to Orlando, we really take ‘em on various trips and so forth. Exposure is very important to us here, especially in the area of education and trying to encourage them to learn and grow and prepare themselves in career and their areas of career and so forth. Yeah and it’s going very well for our youth.

	O:	Pastor Harris, could you talk about the publications ministry?





	H:	Okay, yeah. For years, for years now, I have been trying to develop a newsletter in the church. Just for a while never could take off and I’m talking over a period of about 10 years or more, trying to get a newsletter. We’d get it started, then it would drop off and all of a sudden God sent someone who was just so, I wanna say artistic or so educated or so I don’t know what the word to use but God sent a minister here and by then, what’s your name, Angie, Angie Allen, and because of her background—

	U:	Angenetta [Laughter]



	H:	Because of her background, because of her excellent ability to supervise her to encourage and to motivate people to get involved. She came in and I asked her to do our newsletter for us and it has just been tremendous. The publication minister developed from just that asking Angie to do what I believe God had given to me quite a few years ago and it was amazing that with about 10 years it never happened and within about 5 months we had the most beautiful and we have copies of them around, the most beautiful newsletter and you know how we talk about the youth and the adults, people started, members started getting on staff. Everybody, not everybody, when I say everybody, a large number started to want to be a part of our youth or learning to—

	U:	To write, classes?



	H:	Classes, taking pictures, photography? U:	[inaudible 1:07:07] major in journalism?

	H:	Myra as she sits here, you know, she’s one of the examples of it. Our kids are very motivated and their involved in the publication ministry. The publication





ministry had become of the stronger ministries of the church, you know, we surely we have our missionary ministries and all of these that are real strong that have been there over the years but the publication ministry is the newest ministry of the church and it has developed into a very strong ministry thanks to the leadership, thanks to the leadership of Angenette and them.

	U:	Members of the team. H:	It is wonderful.

	O:	Well Reverend Harris the next question I was gonna ask you is kinda related to what you’re saying now is you know a lot churches have challenges in getting members to become active, what is the secret to cultivating an active membership so that people aren’t just kinda sitting back passively but they’re taking part in the active life of the church.

	H:	My favorite word is the “Lord will add to the church daily.” That’s biblical—he adds to the church daily such as should be and so with that in mind God gave me the spiritual gift inventory. Every member is called of God to do something for God, his kingdom worked, he says “Let your light shine and others will see that light and glorify the Lord.” Well, that has to be the out front consistent preaching for the church to really catch on fire to what God is doing. God adds people to the church, he didn’t add you just to do nothing but he gave you a gift that you will use that gift to glorify him. The gift of Evangelism, teaching, preaching, missionary, work all of these gifts are given to us in the bible as to give us one body. We all have different members, different parts but we are one body and with that in mind for people to realize that you are called to work, you’re not just





called to come to church on Sunday and go home. You’re called to be involved, to reach out, to help somebody. I challenge the church one time, I say, “How many of you don’t know where Davis street is?” and people just you know, everybody got quiet in church. Davis Street is right there, right there in front of the church. I saw most of, if you’re not involved in the community, that’s because you just go back to your home and don’t think about the community itself and getting involved in the kingdom work. Kingdom work is to build up Christ, to edify the Lord and that’s what we’re called to do and so for me I believe the key is getting them to realize they are about serving, they’re servants of God. They are not just to be sitting and hearing the word and going back home but they are to serve the people, not just here but wherever God leads us. We have a ministry, we’ve gone to Haiti, we have a church that we have adopted in Haiti, Good Shepard Fellowship Baptist Church in Haiti. We just sent some missionaries over to Haiti again to go up into the mountainous area. I’ve conducted pastors’ conference in Haiti and we now have a foreign mission ministry here that we’re preparing to go into Africa, Ronda, Rwanda?

	U:	Rwanda is right.



	H:	Rwanda is where Minister Allen was. So we’re trying to reach out beyond just our environment and we wanting our young people as well as our older people to be a part of that reaching out and going out and being used and working for the Lord.

	O:	I see. Reverend Harris, I just have—I know we’ve been here for a while, I just had a couple more questions and maybe we can do, maybe a follow up, even





tomorrow if other things come to mind but you have been in the Baptist Church now for really most of your life and could you talk a little bit about some of the changes but also continuities within the Baptist Church? You had mentioned earlier a female minister is something you have worked on but what have been some of the changes but also what have been some of the things that have remained kind of bedrock in the Baptist Church?

	H:	Okay. As generations change, as we get the generational changes, the older preachers, the older leaders, as they die out, including myself, as I get older now, the changes are coming. They are coming with the new ideas, the younger ideas. They come with technology, they come with people just becoming more aware as avenues open, we expand out even further. Well, I was talking with one of the other pastors here, not Baptist, a lady who is a pastor that’s new for our area here is women pastors and we were marching during the Martin Luther King March and we were talking about and she used to the term, “the pendulum swing,” okay. She has to be in her 40’s, the pastor, okay. I’m 66 and now without thinking about it, till she brought it to my attention, we are the leaders of our community now, okay. Prior to this, most of the older, senior pastors, they really have died off, or they’re really sick so as the younger pastors come in, the younger members have come in with new ideas or new thoughts as it is for me, I started the women ministry here and so we’re seeing an expanded, seeing the growth. The AME Church, it had been all men coming in here before, they brought in, the AME Church brought in a woman pastor, Pastor Moore. Her first month here came right at the time that we were having our, we’re involved in a





New Year’s service, what we call “Watch Night Service,” or Easter service and so forth. Well it just so happened as she came to the AME Church, it was my turn to speak to the community at the Watch Night Service. That’s that service bringing in the New Year. It was my turn and I allowed her to speak in my place. Never been done before, alright and some of the pastors dropped off. But it takes that kind of mindset, that kind of heart, that God can use who he desired to use to carry his gospel and so new ideas is catching on, is taking place. I believe it’s a country, country-wide, or nation-wide thing or maybe even larger than that. That people are becoming more open-minded, okay. I don’t wanna take open-minded too far but they’re coming more open-minded to the need to work together and live together with one another. I believe humanity, the heart of a Christian is to recognize humanity, that we’re all God’s people. We’re all God’s children. We don’t all agree but we can live together in harmony if we would just open up our minds and hearts to reach out to one another and I think that that’s what gonna— it’s gonna take for the Baptist Church to—as the older ones die out or move out, the younger ones coming are more open to reach out to one another, helping one another.

	O:	Pastor Harris, you mentioned earlier that you have within your family genealogy and history were very important learning from your grandmother. Does Macedonia play a role in the promotion of Black history in the community and as a church?

	H:	Okay. Yeah, the vision for 2014, which we’ve already established and have the cards and the paperwork for it. That vision itself, number 1 is that we want to do a





genealogy of the Christian life, Christ genealogy. The bloodline of Jesus Christ, okay? That’s one that we’re doing the research, each class, each Sunday school class is responsible to, when they teach, when they teach their international Sunday school lesson, they have to show how Christ blood line is a part of that. That’s a part of the blood line of Christ and then the second aspect of that is that we want within Macedonia for every member to begin to research. We want to help you research your genealogy, your personal genealogy of your family, your bloodline, okay. We’re going all the way back to, as far as we can go, Adam and Eve. We know that God, we believe that God created two people, Adam and Eve and so we began to expand from there. Where all the genealogy, everybody has that genealogy that they can research on. We are setting up computers, we have a genealogy ministry that we’re using computers to start the research and each member can actually come and we’re using such programs as ancestory.com or genealogy.com on the system where they can come and start to trace their actual family genealogy and then the third aspect of that is that we are establishing here for the entire community. Melbourne Palm Bay Genealogy Society that African Americans—

	U:	African American Genealogy Society of Melbourne and Palm Bay. Right? Yup. H:	Yeah.

	O:	[Laughter]



	U:	African American Genealogy Society, that’s your—



	H:	That’s my wording of it. And so we want to house a place where anyone who wants to trace their genealogy in the Melbourne Palm Bay area, they can come





here and do that themselves. You know, we’ll help, we’ll assist them to actually start their genealogy search. I actually went to 7-day Adv—the Latter-Day Saints, Church of the Latter-Day Saints. They have this historical genealogy. They have me, you, and probably everybody else in their genealogy that you don’t even realize that the information that they have. Well we have—I’ve gone to their church and they’ve actually showed me some of the records and told me where we can get even further records to share so it’s establishing a database where anybody that we could help to learn about the genealogy can do that. I know now that it’s not just a 2014 vision because it’s bigger than that and it’s gonna go past 2014 because we’re just starting to touch the surface of it and it’s becoming costly as well but we’re willing believe that because it is a vision from God that it’s gonna be successful for all the community and beyond.

	U:	The museum? Have you talked about the museum? H:	Yeah that’s set in Savannah.

	U:	Or what you wanna do? In the museum, no? Okay.



	O:	And if we have follow up questions too, we can talk, is there a time that we can talk tomorrow, also?

	H:	Sure. I’ll be here all day tomorrow.



	O:	If there are other questions you wanna and maybe we can cause I know we’ve been oh almost 90—an hour and a half, so maybe one more question tonight. You’ve already kinda touched on this Pastor Harris but what is your vision for Macedonia 5-10 years from now?





	H:	Okay. 5-10 years from now I hope I’m retired. But I want to be able to leave legacy, leave a heritage that it will continue to reach out even further in the world. As we say we have a foreign ministry, I know that it’s God’s calling upon us that as far as he would allow us to go financially or adding the people to do the work, how they’ve brought those in, who had the experience of going to Africa, we’re now using those missionaries to get involved here, to influence our members to get more involved. God’s work is bigger than any city, or state, or nation. It’s for all the world to know and see. So in 5 years, I just pray that not only Macedonia, not only the genealogy outreach that we’re doing expand, but it continues to go more and more. The people will become more interested in it. 5 years I believe that our work will be so vast in going to foreign counties, undeveloped countries is the better way of looking at it because it’s about helping our fellow man, all humans beings. And so I pray that the people of Macedonia will feel my spirit and when I’m gone that spirit will still live on in this church family to keep reaching out and helping one another. It’s about people. It’s about helping people to come to grow in the Lord but to help them to live a better life, yeah. That’s why our benevolence in things is not, we don’t ask nobody “Are you a Christian?” If you come to us about wanting help, we don’t say, “Are you a Christian?” Are you a member of our church? We just wanna help you. We don’t ask no questions like that, okay, because it’s bigger than our local area, yeah.

	O:	Reverend Harris, thank you so much. This has been great and if there are questions or issues we wanna talk about tomorrow, let’s go and kinda plan to do maybe a 30-minute follow up.





U:   Okay.



O:  If that’s, if that works into your time schedule. H:   Sure, oh yeah. Like I said, I’ll be here.

O:  Again, I wanna thank you for sitting down with me for a full one hour and a half and it’s been a great learning experience for me and I’m looking forward to our time later and tomorrow, as well.

H:  Excellent. I look forward to it as well and Angenetta prepared me that it may take, you know, that it’s not just a 5 minute interview so—

O:   [Laughter]



	H:	Yeah so she did a beautiful of preparing us for it. Thank you so very much. O:	Thank you.

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Amelia D’costa, November 25, 2014 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, May 30, 2017 Final edited by:	Ryan Morini, February 24, 2019