AAHP 665; West Point; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 665 West Point Students Visit Panel 5-30-2019 Panel on May 30, 2019

52 minutes | 25 pages



Abstract: In this panel, West Point cadets reflect on their experiences speaking with African American elders in the Gainesville, Florida area. The cadets share their interpretations of the term “White privilege” and reflect on the necessary steps to reduce racial discrimination in the United States. The panel discusses the issues of gentrification, education inequality, and racial profiling in light on their experiences speaking with African Americans in Gainesville.





Keywords: [West Point, White privilege, military, gentrification, civil rights, education inequality, panel]



AAHP 665

Interviewee: West Point Cadets Interviewer: Unknown

Date: May 30, 2019

	U1:	The first thing I want to say is thank you, because this has been an extraordinary experience for us. Your stories are so important, not just for us, because what you’ve seen in these cadets, my cadets that we’ve taken over the past seven years, is ambassadors. And they’re gonna take what they learned back to West Point and that’s why they have a videotape recorder to charge every night. And take these stories back and take these ideas back, and that’s very important. And we thank you for that, because a lot of you—those of you that have been in the military, in the Army in particular, understand that a lot of the social change that we see today was started in the Army. And we’re trying to perpetuate that. We’re starting small, but we’re working our way up to it. So, I first want to thank you for this amazing experience and wonderful lunch. The second thing I wanted to do is ask the cadets if we can go around the room about their impressions, about what in particular they like to do, what they’ve seen so far—

	U2:	Overall what you’ve seen and then today. U1:	Just a brief statement.

	U3:	Well, I guess something that I saw today a lot that really hit when I was driving around seeing gentrification. I come from a university town, and I didn’t really see it in my hometown, but now that I think about it, it’s definitely there. And just college towns around the country, I think that’s a big problem. It’s a big problem everywhere, so driving around and really seeing it and point out the lines of where it’s happening was really impactful for me. This has been really powerful to drive around and see where civil rights happened and then coming here and





especially today hearing from people that were there and experienced it, got to meet them, that’s really powerful.

	U4:	Can I respond? I think that’s a big statement you just made. A lot of people go to college, and they go to college and stay on the campus. Their education is around the college. So, coming out to see who they are, what they do, why they do it—learning what’s going on in the community. I call it University Town and Gown, because it’s a shame if you come to a city, stay four years, go back home, and have never found out what the neighbors do, who they are, and what their backgrounds are. So, I’m glad you appreciate that.

	U2:	And I want to add to that that the university perpetuates that. It’s not just the White students who don’t get a chance to know what’s in the community. I’ve talked to Black students who have gone to the University of Florida for four years and do not know where the Black community is. So, it’s not just White students.

	U5:	And one thing that I want to point out, an observation, in Vietnam in 1960 in Danang where I was, I was affiliated with the First Marine Infantry Corps. We were on the aviators flying surveillance missions over the DMZ. When we would get hit with one round of homemade rockets on the ground, one person might feel the top, machine guns, make sure the samples didn’t come in because the samples wanted to go back. When the daylight came, I had Marines trying to kill me. And the only way I didn’t kill him was I had the safety on. When I heard the shotgun snap and realized what was going on. Other than that, I would’ve been dead today. So, those are the stories of racism and it was a lot of those killed in Vietnam, not because the enemy but because of racism. But what do I know?





	U3:	Thank you, sir.



	U6:	Yeah, that was certainly very interesting. So, I guess the original question was just like a brief statement, right? Yeah.

	U2:	If you want to do more—



	U6:	No, no. [Laughter] So, I guess you never really realize how people are affected by things until you go and you get out and you look at what’s actually happening on the ground. I just think it’s very interesting to see the kind of dynamic between how the Civil Rights Movement has made great strides while at the same time we’re almost reverting in other aspects of life. We see the resegregation and we really see the gentrification of neighborhoods. And I just think it’s so appalling to know what while the Civil Rights Movement has made such great strides and now we’re here, what can we do to move forward when we’re actually moving backwards? And that’s just very interesting and very concerning to me. It was a mournful experience for me, personally, to get to see that firsthand. It’s one thing to read about it in all these books we read, it’s a definite ‘nother to go out and see it.

	U7:	Yeah, well, first of all, I really enjoyed hearing all of your stories. We did something similar—you know Cody—remember that? And I’m looking forward to hearing more stories from people regardless of race. But one thing I noticed when I went out on the town, and I see this as a positive thing, is all those Blacks talking about the history of various places, I thought that was very cool. Just always remembering what happened in these places. So, I don’t know when that started but I thought that was cool.





	U8:	Yeah, so to go off of that, I didn’t realize the issues that still linger. I’m from around up North and this is—not necessarily—gentrification I really didn’t notice. To see this and see it so obviously is just really interesting to me. And also, what I’ve noticed is the simple community you all have here is absolutely brilliant. Even in Ocoee, I think that is the first step, a really big step, into making lasting change. So, I learned something, maybe I should start getting involved in whatever communities I’ve got at home. But I think it’s really interesting what you have here.

	U9:	This experience has been really unique for me. I live in Indiana and our African American population around where I live is probably maybe one percent, so I don’t get to see a lot of different cultures. It’s very homogeneous. So, growing up and in school I never really learned about civil rights at all. I never knew it was an issue because no one talked about it. But, coming here and seeing it firsthand, it makes me realize that this isn’t history. It didn’t happen six hundred years ago.

It’s going on now. I never thought about my mom and my grandma’s age having to deal with this, so thank you so much for sharing your stories. During the class time period one of the activities we did last week was there was pictures placed around the classroom and we had to choose one that we wanted to talk about. And one of the pictures I chose was a very young African American girl being escorted out of the school by three old White officers and one of the things that we talked about—I just wondered, “What did her friends think?” “What would she go back and tell the kids that were in her neighborhood, going to this White school?” Or “What did the parents have to go through?” It’s so amazing hearing





all of your stories that you went through that, because it doesn’t seem like—To actually have a conversation with someone that went through that is so much richer than the activity we did do. That was really enlightening but hearing it from someone that experienced it was truly amazing.

	U5:	Let me share one more point: My involvement with the VFW when I came back to Jefferson County—anybody have any idea who Lewis Thomas was? Lewis Thomas was a sergeant in World War II that raised the flag when Americans actually captured that mountain. I had the—what I call the “luxury” of actually in his final days kind of meeting President Obama allowed me to meet with Lieutenant General Snowden, Watts Snowden. Famous World War II Marine.

And General Snowden was the commanding officer as a major at that time, they actually overran the Japanese and survived. Lewis Thomas raised that flag. But one of the things—I just sent out a text yesterday—I found that in World War II, Lieutenant Colonel Charity Earley was sent to fight along with the coastal Italian. Of eight hundred and some Black females who were in the Army Corps, just Linda Martin, who was the pilot, received her medals after ninety years. Because they just found it, that unit. Very few people knew about that. As a matter of fact, she was a major when she was commanding officer of that postal attachment in France. And four years after she had been lieutenant colonel, the treatment was so bad to her she only stayed in for four more years and then retired. Of course, she worked at the Pentagon, brought about a lot of changes that went out. So, that’s the jest of what I call a Women’s Black History fact. I was writing what I call my little spreadsheet, I thought about each of you as leaders. And this is what my





experience [inaudible 10:53] and military experience, most of you will be the generals of tomorrow making those critical decisions because of your abilities and because you went to the academy. So, you have to really prepare yourselves for what you’re learning now, have that multicultural background to make good decisions. That’s the impact of meeting people. That’s the thing I wanted to share with you.

	VF:	And on that note, I want to say all of your life, wherever you are, every aspect of your life, this will make an impact. Because when people—people experience. And so, you need to be able to leverage that with something greater than, “I saw one African American person,” to “I have now built my own experience.” Because you have to take personal responsibility for doing that, because nobody else will do it for you. But if you put yourself in the place where the knowledge is there and you add to it, you find out what’s going on. In every city, there’s something going on. Black history has yet to be written because they weren’t interested.

And so, we’re gathering African American history. I learn all the time. I learned just this morning amazing things that I love and cherish, and I’m eighty-one. I’ve been doing this a while, but I’m always impacted by new knowledge. But if you see—during Black History Month at my school, everybody used to bring me the Black Books. I used to give them back. I said, “I am Black, I know Black history. You read this book! I probably have already read this book. And then let us talk about it.” “Oh, Vivian, I saw a Black picture in—.” You keep that picture and you learn what’s on that picture, you see what I’m saying? You can always—and I love having those things, but I would love it even more if I knew you had





incorporated that into your life and your strategy so that you learn more about each other so we can do better than where we are. We do have to work with today, and even though we have these old backgrounds, we are here today. We are very up to where we are and willing to be the caveat, willing to be the lender, willing to be whatever it takes, the catalyst, to make it a better thing. And that’s why we’re doing all this and that’s why I’m so impressed with all of the things that I’ve learned. Because I thought, “My goodness, I can take this back. I have some more to take back now to the people that I spoke—I was asked to give the commencement address of the college, Santa Fe College. And one of my friends said to me, “Well, the president read your speech first?” I said, “Nobody reads my speech first. If the president read it, he can write it.” Well, the president asked me that because he understands. He knows what I talk about; my theme doesn’t change. So, my information to them was, I told them my story, growing up in segregation and all of that part. But then I said, “Now, you wonder why I tell you my story. I told you my story because until you know Black history, you don’t know American history.” That’s it, so don’t claim to know it until—Now, I know there are other ethnic groups, the same things applies but think about this: We are the only group of people in America who didn’t come from a land where we had a written history. Our African history is well intact but we created African American life here and it is not written. But like ancient China, its history is written. Other parts of Asia, its history is written. So, my thing has always been to incorporate everybody, love everybody, but I tell my story. All right.





	U10:	Two things, one, I would like for the cadets to tell me what comes to mind when you think about—and not just cadets, adults too—what comes to mind when you think about White privilege? And what role you think White privilege has played in all the stuff that has gone and on for hundreds of years? And then the other thing I wanted to say is I’m known through a national organization where I’m so proud that we have over fifteen members who are Native Americans, and their story, please. I mean, ours is horrible, theirs are too. So, while you’re learning about the hatred, that hatred, check the Native Americans out too. White privilege.

	U11:	I guess the fact that, like you were saying, Black history isn’t written. That fact that people would say, “Oh, I know history,” and just ignore it. And I think that’s something that really—it’s sad and I think it’s wrong and I think that that’s—To have that privilege to say, “Yeah, this is what history is and it should only be your history.” I don’t think that’s right.

	VF:	We always not in the story. Thank you.



	U5:	Let me say one other point, Deb, you mentioned something about Native Americans. I was telling someone earlier, my great great grandmother, Margaret Newton, demised at nineteen years old. She was a slave, but because of her living with the Cherokee and the Seminoles in North Florida, that was the shield. And I’ll do another speech about what I’m gon’ say. Talked a little bit about it when I was here in March. And Black folks, slaves from South Carolina and other areas and even as far as Georgia came to Saint Augustine because they knew if they pledged their allegiance to the King of Spain when Florida was under Spain and converted to the Catholic religion they were free. Black families. And they





protected—there was a captain that basically led a militia there. Also, in my area it was the Indians and their protecting of Black slaves. A lot of Black slaves lived until General Andrew Jackson came through and just eradicated everybody when Florida became a territory. But my experience in the end, it goes back—I talk about civil rights. When I got back home and joined the post military organization at American Legion VFW, those kind of folks did not accept Black military people. The first Black state commander in [inaudible 18:34] came to me and said, “I need you to make a post at Jefferson County.” And so, I formed VFW Post 251. I recruited over a hundred and some people, both White and Black, in that post.

And then in 2005 when I was elected the First District Commander of the nine counties, that’s why I went all this way what I told you with this awards and everything. I had to totally pull the charter as the district commander because Lewis Thomas Post only had twenty-one members, less than the twenty-five required for a majority, and they did not want to actually read the constitutional bylaws, which VFW is formed by the Congress of the United States. And so I had to totally pull their charter and disband them.

	U11:	That’s great, thank you.



	U1:	If I can get back to your question. U11:	Yes.

	U1:	I’m going to talk to the second part of it first and then the first part second. So, we don’t focus our study only on African Americans. Our study is broader than that. So, we’ve delt with issues such as Japanese American internment during World War II. We visited Rohwer and Jerome internment camps in Arkansas on one of





our trips. We went to the Japanese American Veterans Museum in McGehee, Arkansas. We didn’t know it was there but the year before we passed by, I saw a sign. And we actually went to Washington DC and at the time the Department of Labor was run by very good people and they had a whole program with Japanese American veterans who fought in World War II as part of the most decorated unit in the United States Army and would come back from Europe and visit their families in internment camps. We have gone to Native American sites. We planned, we’ve been talking about doing this and starting in the Midwest and doing actually Native American Civil Rights there. Now the tough question, we haven’t really talked about it too much as a group but this is a great time to talk about it. There is White privilege and nothing makes it clearer to me than when I talk with some of my colleagues who are African American and they tell me about their daily lives. And especially I talk with senior Army personnel at West Point, African Americans who are the best people we have and they tell me what they have to do when they’re driving in their car and they see a light behind them and how they have to act. And you see the total difference between a White officer will answer, they have to scramble to get out their registration and license. And these guys, I think I told you cadets about them that were sergeant majors or high-ranking officers, retired officers, they’re there with their hands on the wheel and you know what that’s for. And they have to tell their children this. And that kills me. When I tell a story I can’t stick to a story. [Laughter] It’s natural really.

So, I wanted to just say that this community, you’re going to succeed. Because when you produce people like Colonel Harden over there—





	U2:	I’m very proud of her.



	U1:	She’s very modest. She’s an extraordinary officer, she’s an extraordinary lawyer, extraordinary teacher and the first thing that I can say probably, she makes this thing happen. But when she tells me that she has to tell her son about this, it’s revolting. I think it’s something that we have to talk about because a lot of people whose skin is the color of mine don’t think about it. They don’t have to think about it, and that’s wrong. That’s wrong. Professor, you were talking about Chainey, Shwarmer, and Goodman. So, last year we were in northern Georgia and a woman, Jocelyn, was taking us through the Albany Civil Rights Institute. She came to the picture of the three of them and she was telling the story to the cadets—again, this is our second day—as it is today—of our staff riot. And she pointed to Shwarmer and Goodman and she said, “See these two guys? They’re not White. They’re same skin color as mine, they’re Jewish.” And she distinguished between them. I said, “I like that.” Because White is really not the color of your skin it’s the sense of power or powerlessness. And in America today, it makes more—it matters and it’s always mattered. But in a community like this, doing the things you are doing, talking about it, and with cadets like this that will spread the word, we can change that. I really believe we can change that. So, that’s—

	U2:	Have y’all ever heard that term? White privilege? I want to say a couple of things. First, I want to say that I applaud you for not keeping it binary, Black and White. That you’re looking at the human experience of atrocities or oppression and I think that’s a great thing because we’re a human family. Now, we all represent





our interests and our cultures, and that’s good. My parents were very diverse in their raising of us and so we recognized and accepted and associated with the human family, and that meant Native Americans, Whites, Jewish people. And I want to say that the abolitionist movement wasn’t just Black people fighting for the rights of Black people, we had other humans that were also participating. And the Civil Rights Movement, again, it was not just Black people fighting for civil rights because civil rights are human rights. You had Catholic priests, you had Jewish rabbis, and you had White people participating and so it looked a lot like the human family. So, we want to keep in mind the human family because it’s just the one race. What’s his name? He would always say, “What is race? It’s something to be run, because there is only one race and that is the human race, the human family.” So, kudos.

	VF:	But until we get there, until we get there America, we’ve got to do some work. I want to be told it’s one race, but we’re not there yet. We are not. And until you know my story and you know what to do with it, we are not there yet. And if you’re Jewish, if you’re this or whatever—if your skin is light and you can walk in the door and I can’t, you get my drift? So, I have got to reach the people you are, you have got to see me. And when I talk, my friend said to me, “I don’t see you as Black.” I said, “Then you hurt my feelings. As big as I am and as Black as I am,” [Laughter] “don’t tell me that!” You know, I said, “I just want you to see me as your friend, as an equal person, because I see you as White.” You see what I’m saying? And so we can do this and I want us always to feel because I feel





comfortable here. But there’s a reason that we’re trying to get the story told in universal and it’s so that we can all get on the same page.

	U2:	So let’s be sure we can hear from all of our cadets. Okay.



	U12:	All right so when you said, “White privilege,” the very first thing that came to my mind was I did an activity in a leadership conference last summer where we all lined up on the start line, and there was a finish line. And it was a very diverse group. And they asked us questions. They said, “Take a step forward if you’ve never had to worry where your food was coming from.” Or, “Take a step back if you had to work a job in high school.” And we all ended up at different points.

Some people were almost to the finish line, some people were way behind the start line, and that really illustrated for me that it’s not what we’re doing now, but White privilege is where we come from and what we didn’t have to worry about. It’s being closer to the finish line just because you didn’t have to worry about the same things. And they said, “Go!” And of course, the people that were way closer to the finish line finished first no matter how hard the people in the back tried.

And to me, that really illustrated White privilege.



	VF:	Good lesson.



	U2:	That is the truth in this society. VF:	Yes.

	U13:	So, kind of going off of that, I was thinking, White privilege, to me, I don’t think because you’re White you’re privileged. I mean, there’s a lot of really poor White families. Like my mother was from rural Romania; she had it hard and she was White. But in regards to African Americans, there is some [inaudible 29:40] and I





think White people are here and African Americans are way back here. And that was the cause and all the White privilege and the slavery and the cruelty and everything that happened back in America’s history. So, I think now in the twenty- first century, we’re all still playing catch-up. Like, African American communities are playing catch-up. And I don’t know how a apparent White privilege is now. I think it differs in some areas and some degrees, but I do think it exists and I think we have a lot more work to do to become really equal, like true equality.

	U2:	You know what? We have to learn the word equity. Yes. See, ‘cause equity is the Blacks are here, the Whites are here, and we need the Blacks to get here. Well, they keep giving—they say, “We give both of ‘em a million dollars.” Well, that just shoots the Whites up further and put the Blacks there. So, we got to make sure that the other people are here before we can talk equality. And I just learned that.

	VF:	I don’t care where you came from to America, if your skin is light in this conversation, you are White. You have to know that. I’m not looking at you, I’m not looking at that, I’m looking at the fact that you came into America White and you can walk in the door and get a job and I couldn’t. Okay? That’s the bottom line. I’m looking at you could get a house in this neighborhood, and I couldn’t. I don’t care where you came from.

	U2:	I don’t care if your mama had a hard time finding a job. [Laughter]



	VF:	You came from both of us lookin’ at a job, and you get to go in the door and I don’t. I’m looking at the fact that you walked in the front door of the doctor’s office and I walked in the back cubbyhole. I don’t care, they don’t ask you what country you’re from until later on. But you’re already through the door. They aren’t even





trying to ask me if I came from Britain or wherever! [Laughter] They don’t care. They’re just looking for the money spent, and I don’t get in the door. So, you have to—that’s a deep place to go but until we go there we have to know that the system is already set up to put us on the other side. So, you have to know that, “Yes it exists.” And at the level, “I am White, I don’t care where I came from to get to America.” That’s what America’s all about. And everybody else, the Statue of Liberty said, “Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free.” She didn’t tell us that. We were already free. We didn’t come here because we wanted to. We were brought here, and we were not yearning to be free. We were already free. And we came en masse and we came under great duress. We are still under great duress. And so that is the difference between having White privilege, even if you say you’re not privileged, oh yeah. As long as you walk in White shoes you are. You didn’t choose to be but you are, and that’s what you have to conceptualize.

	U14:	Well, a lot of it’s been said already but I guess the first place my mind goes when I think of White privilege is education. It’s the root of so many disparities within the Black and White communities because if you’re White the fact is you’re more likely to go to a school that’s better funded, maybe on the other side of town—the wealthier part of town. And so, I would say that’s the source of a lot of the White privilege we see today. Even like with police, they go into a lower-income area with people who are less educated because they didn’t have the privilege of being born into a wealthier community. So, that’s why you see an increase in police brutality there. So, that’s where my mind is.





	VF:	Good, thank you.



	U2:	Different perspective.



	U15:	All right, so I kind of want to take that, Gene’s point, and Mrs. Vivian’s point and kind of put them together. So, I want everyone to bear with me because what I’m about to say, this might be a little insidious.

	U2:	That’s all right.



	VF:	That’s all right. We’ll get there. Go ahead.



	U15:	We got the privilege, the privilege afforded to me by being the skin color that I am was not afforded to me by being the skin color I am, it was afforded to me by not being the skin color other people are. It’s not having to worry when I get pulled over. It’s not having to worry when I apply for a job. It’s not having to question what I put on my college application. It’s accruing wealth since the very start of the country and not picking up X years I have worked. So, when I think of White privilege, I don’t think about it as this inherent thing that you receive by being a certain skin color, I think it’s all things you don’t have to deal with because of the skin color that you are. Which I really think was what she was trying to say and what Mrs. Vivian was trying to say.

	VF:	You’re deep. I love the drawl. For example, you guys remember the situation with Dr. Gates when he was going to—

	U2:	His own house!



	VF:	His own house and because he was Black, he was arrested. U2:	Yeah, because he was in that neighborhood.





	VF:	I mean, somebody called the police, said there was somebody suspicious. And eventually he didn’t, I guess, bow down to the White officer and shuffle like he expected.

	U2:	He acted like he was at his house.



	VF:	Exactly. He was arrested. And Trayvon Martin looked suspicious in the neighborhood and he ended up dead, so yeah.

	U15:	It’s not havin’ to worry about wearing a hoodie. It’s not having to worry about driving a nice car and wondering, “Is someone going to think that I stole this?”

	U2:	Or dealing drugs.



	VF:	Or drugs, yeah. You can have that car without dealing drugs. And you know, I like all your thoughts. I like all of your thoughts, because as long as you’re thinking we’re all gonna get it right. And just to know that it isn’t something that has been, it is alive and well and ticking with the clock. It’s all over. My son was in the hospital down in South Florida, a little place called Oxford, Florida. And I tell you, I am a big loud person but I treaded on water there because Rebel Flags are everywhere, Fox News is on every TV. I almost had an accident and there were two people sitting on a motorcycle and I had to swerve my car over to keep from getting hit. You think they would’ve come on and said something to me? Oh no. They just looked at me like I was—and I got myself out of there because I knew that I was not in friendly territory. Now, that’s today! That’s not when my daddy was on his list. That is today. So, we have not done the work all you need to be listening and you are listening. And what you do is going to make a big difference because there still is work to be done. At the end of my TEDtalk,





we talk to students to ask what can be done. I say, “You have to pick up from where we left off and still work toward a goal, because we have not reached it.” We didn’t reach it so we have got to get there.

	U16:	And I’ll add to this point here— U2:	This young man hasn’t gone yet. U16:	Okay, go ahead.

	U17:	I was going to say, White privilege to me—and this is really like kind of a close to home issue with West Point especially that really frustrates me—it’s being able to look at someone else’s achievements and saying, “They didn’t earn it.” Especially now. That’s a problem a lot of cadets do is they look at the Black students or minority students like, “They didn’t work hard to get here. They’re here because they have a different color skin.”

	VF:	Wow, affirmative action.



	U17:	And they think they didn’t try as hard or they’re getting something they didn’t deserve, and that’s a big problem for me. It’s ignoring what you had privileged to you and not what other people didn’t have. So when people get in and they look at lower test scores from other cadets—and that was a big thing is they release test scores and who got what test scores based off race. And they’re like, “Oh, well the Black scores are lower.” But no one looks at their own community and realizes, “Well, I got classes on the SAT, I had study sessions, there was this wealth in the community that was privilege that I got this advantage over other people.” And then you look at others like, “You’re not trying hard, you didn’t work to get here.” And that’s frustrating for me. And I think that extends everywhere. I





think White privilege, which is anywhere White people are which is everywhere, is that it’s a pervading issue and I think it affects everyone. I don’t think you really escape it everywhere because people look at race inherently. I think White people just have that privilege naturally and it comes from the long history of the United States.

	U16:	And you just hit the nail on the head. U2:	Yeah. One more.

	U18:	Yeah, a lot of great things have already been said but when I think about White privilege, I think about a lot of people are either ignorant of it or they don’t want to believe that it’s alive and well. It’s not just over generations accumulated injustices that African Americans faced versus White families that are at different starting points, but also just today walking into the store or whatever, I know that I’m always going to get the benefit of the doubt and other people don’t, so... I think it honestly needs to be acknowledged by people.

	U16:	That’s a good point, too. Based on my experience, probably have more diverse experience than a lot of folk, even in the state of Florida. And I’ve worked as a lot of things, chief deputy state fire marshal, the chairman board of county commissioners of my county. The political institution probably is the greatest enforcer of White privilege concepts. That’s where it’s got to be broken down first. When I was elected to the board of county commissioners and when I was chief deputy of the state fire marshal, I got a lot done. At the airport in Tampa because I had a gun in my carry-on—the only reason I had it was because the law provided me, I was a chief deputy law enforcement person for the whole





state of Florida investigating a crime case in West Palm Beach. And because the plane was late getting into Tampa, I had to carry my luggage on the little commuter that was going on to West Palm. And of course, when I went through the security checkpoint, I was gonna get it. There was the gun in there and I tell ‘em, “Hey, I’m authorized to carry that.” They locked me up. And only when they started legally searching my luggage, they found my badge that I was chief deputy, found I worked for the state of Florida, and they wanted to apologize and all of that. Now, you just didn’t listen to me. I told you I was authorized to carry it. [inaudible 41:33] investigator people, FHP one o’clock in the morning he pulled me over. I did the same thing. My son is a police detective for the city of Tampa, so I know all those caveats. And he come up to me, “Where you going? You wandering all over the road.” I said, “I’m not gonna argue with you. You’re very incorrect. I’m headed towards Jacksonville, Florida, for a reason.” And he said, “Why is that?” “Because I am a law enforcement officer just like you are. My badge is in my glove compartment. I’m a chief deputy state fire marshal for the whole state of Florida, I got offices in all of the state.” “Oh, well you go ahead on and go where you want,” and everything. There was another incident. Those are the kinds of situations, and politically—I lost my reelection in 2014 because as the chairman of the board if county commissioners, as I said, when I was starting, I’m a change-maker. I made a difference in my community for all people, not just one. Because in the year being chairman of the board of county commissioners, we paved over fifty-one miles of dirt roads in the Black community that had not been touched at all. Built a one-point-five-million-dollar





fire station where they were livin’ in shacks—because I used to be the fire chief. And I said, “I am not going to sit here and look at those guys providing pertinent services to our citizens and living in a shack.” Even animals, in the rain when you have responses with medications, it’s supposed to be secure and all of that. So, I put the resolution on the floor, and it passed. And because of that, I was not reelected. I lost my reelection by seven votes. So, from the political perspective, you have to remember government is a microcosm from national, state, and local. We have judicial, legislative, and the executive branch, all those. When you look at the government the way it is now, unless you start making those changes—because those folks in those positions are the people that are going to make decisions, who get what, when, how, and how much. So, until we can get the mindset we have this great nation, this never was “Make America Great Again” that was something that was talked about—but

	VF:	Register to vote. U16:	Yes, we have to.

	U2:	Can we hear from Mrs. Felicia? U18:	I’m not Felicia.

	U2:	I’m sorry, Lieutenant Colonel.



U18: I just think, to answer your question about White privilege, I just think you see it. You see it on the TV. You just saw it with that college student that just went up. You have to buy into that. You know if you don’t have the resources, any of that, that is truly, truly a problem. I think that to Bryan Stephenson, when he talked in his TEDtalk, he was talkin’ about, “What is capital punishment?” And he said,





“Capital punishment is when you don’t have capital, you get punished.” [Laughter] Wonderful, wonderful talk that he has on TEDtalk. But that’s the essence of what he’s saying. So, that’s what it is. It’s sometimes being able to cut the line because of a color, the color of your skin. And I look at it in cases of— you know, we’ve used that and with a lot of these things with Plessy. You know, they pick certain folks because they looked White, because those were the ones that they wanted to challenge the system. It wasn’t that they weren’t Black, one eighth Black, but that skin color, that was a way to test the system. And so, it goes back to showing that skin color is playing a role and a part in it, and that we have a ways to go. We still have some work to do. But I’m encouraged over what you all are doing, I’m encouraged because of what our cadets are learning, because they’re going to be in those places that they’re going to have to speak up. It’s hard. I’ve been there. It’s hard. You get that knot in your stomach like, “I’m not going to be able to do it. I know my military training but I got to say something. But I have to say it in a way that will not jeopardize my position but get my message across.” And sometimes you can’t do things until you get at a certain level, and the higher you get the more you can influence the system. And so that’s why I’m hoping that the cadets, as they leave from here—because I know they will—be ambassadors of the program. And you all will help them because you’re being their teachers here today. We’re professors, right in here, they didn’t even know it. They didn’t see it on their syllabus when they came into West Point, but you’re on their syllabus as their professor. So, thank you so much for sharing your story with them. This has been truly, truly a great visit. We





would like to just take a minute to tell you how appreciative we are so the cadets want to present our panelists with some tokens just to say thank you for that. And I just need a quick [inaudible 47:17] working behind the scenes, pause and just give me one moment.

	U2:	In a moment I want to say, Chris Rock. Everybody knows who Chris Rock is, right? Chris Rock said that he’s a millionaire but he can’t find a White man who would trade places with him, a poor White man to trade places with him. Because even with all the money he’s got, the White person got more privilege than he has.

	VF:	He’s right.



	U18:	I’m good with—I know there’s privilege but here’s what I want to say: We can jump. We got rhythm. And a whole lot of other things that we can do that are cultural. So, we can compare. So I don’t really want to trade places. I just want to stay Black and beautiful. And I will not just be a teacher, I also want to be a friend, so friendship is on the table for me.

	VF:	Me too. I love being of African descent. I really try to tone down my pride, but because I know where I came from and where you all came from, it just—

	U18:	And how about that free tan we rockin’? Oh yeah!



	VF:	And probably more important than that is the fact that— U18:	What’s more important? [Laughter]

	VF:	—we have to do that for ourselves because in America we were always put down. Until James Brown came along and said, “Say it loud.” It was not good to be Black. It was not good to call yourself Black. They used it as a dirty word. But





James Brown said, “It’s all right.” See, you don’t even know the impact of that. “Say it loud.” Say what? I’m Black and I’m proud. I’m not hearing what you said I am anymore. I know who I am. I’m Black and I’m proud. So, that’s where we are today. We’re you’re friend but we’re sure Black.

	U18:	I love being a teacher at West Point. Thank you all for the opportunity. Why don’t we turn this back over to you because you in charge? [Laughter]

	U2:	Okay what we want to do, cadets that are presenting—You’re presenting too?



And we’ll start here.



	U12:	Mrs. Vivian? VF:	Yes?

U12: Thank you so much for talking to us today. I really enjoyed your stories. I hope I can hear more later. So, as a token of our appreciation we’d like to present you with this.

	VF:	Oh, I’m going to cherish this. U12:	You are a wonderful professor.

	VF:	Gee, I’m gonna put this in the newspaper. [Laughter] Thank you very much.



U12: We just want to thank you so much for sharing your stories and letting us come into your space and hear from you and all your stories. It’s just really great and we just want to say thank you.

	U19:	Thank you so much for all of your stories on behalf of us, especially I’m sure the cadets, we thank you so much for imparting all your knowledge. [inaudible 50:56] I’m sure [inaudible 50:58] as well, so thank you so much.





	U15:	On behalf on West Point Department of Law and the Civil Rights Staff we would like to present professor Gwendolyn Simmons with this Department of Law pin in appreciation of your support for our staff.

	GS:	Thank you so much, wow.



	U3:	Sir, on behalf on West Point Department of Law and the Civil Rights Staff, thank you for your stories, thank you for your service towards civil rights. We appreciate it, [inaudible 51:37] so thank you.

	U5:	I need you to hear something, did you smash [inaudible 51:43] out there? I’ve got kept all over the—[Applause]

	U2:	Oh, no, no, no, no. She was instrumental in organizing all of this. The whole staff, oral history department and staff, thank you all so much because they made this happen and the fact that you brought us down here and welcomed us here. So anytime you have [inaudible 52:12] The stories that we got, putting all this together, we know it can’t be easy. This was great for the students and this was flawlessly executed, and so thank you so much. As a token, we have for your whole department and for you, Department of West Point with—of course West Point on the other hand is something you all can have to cherish. So, I thank you so much. [Applause]





[End of interview]





Transcribed by: Abby Lovett; October 26, 2021 Audit-Edited by: Sandra Romero, October 26, 2021





	Final-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, October 27, 2021