AAHP 307; Corbett; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 307 Jordon Corbett and Marie McLeod African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Sherry Dupree on May 20, 2013 1 hour, 3 minutes | 40 pages







Abstract: Jordon Corbett was raised in a segregated mining town called Pierce, Florida. He tells stories about his small community: the teachers, churches and events. After attending Bethune-Cookman University for one semester, he was drafted and travelled around the country during World War II. Corbett was able to attend North Carolina A&T after the draft and majored in mathematics. He went on to become a teacher in Bartow, Florida for thirty years.

Also in this interview, Mr. Corbett is joined by the daughter of his service man Marie McLeod. The two men were apart of the Triple Nickle, an African American parachute group. They share personal experiences and recall memories from the troop.



Keywords: [Pierce, Florida; Bartow, Florida; North Carolina A&T; African Methodist Episcopal (AME) Church]







































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 307

Interviewee: Jordon Corbett, Marie McLeod Interviewer: Sherry Dupree

Date: May 20, 2013



	D:	Good afternoon. We are in Bartow, Florida, today interviewing Mr. Jordon J. Corbett. We are here to interview him at two o’clock pm on May 20th. This is Monday, May 20th of 2013. Those present are his wife, Mrs. Marie McLeod. My name is Sherry Dupree and we have our photographer who is Deborah Hendrix. We are all gathered in the home of Mr. Corbett in Bartow, Florida. Good afternoon.

	C:	Good afternoon.



	D:	It’s a pleasure to be here this afternoon with you. C:	And it’s a pleasure to have you here with us.

	D:	Well thank you. We’re representing the University of Florida and also this will be shared with the Library of Congress. Our first question to you is to just give us your name. Would you please state your full name?

	C:	My name is Jordon Jerome Corbett.



	D:	Wonderful, and Mr. Corbett, where were you born?



	C:	I was born in a little town called Tiger Bay, which does not exist now. D:	What was it near?

	C:	It was between Homeland, Florida, and Bradley, Florida. D:	What a big town.

	C:	It was a mining company town. D:	All right.

	C:	And shortly after I was born, they moved the town to a town called Pierce, Florida. That’s where I was reared and born. Reared up in.





	D:	I see, and your parents’ name?



	C:	My parents—my mother Rebecca Hutnell Corbett, and my father: Isaac Corbett.



That’s Rebecca and Isaac. Biblical names.



	D:	Biblical names, yes. And yours is biblical too. Jordon River [Laughter]. How many siblings?

	C:	I had one brother and one sister, and both are now deceased. D:	Their names please.

	C:	Eloise Corbett, my sister and my brother, Clarence Corbett. D:	The occupation of your father?

	C:	My father was as far as I know, he worked with the phosphate company as a dragline linesman.

	D:	Can you tell us a little bit? What is a dragline linesman?



	C:	Well, during that time they mined phosphate out of the Earth. First they used to mine it by using powerful water guns to—the guns would then push up the sand and they would pump it off. They eventually got what they call “draglines” to dig it up, and there were three men on the dragline. The dragline operators, the oiler, and the dragline linesman. So my dad was a dragline linesman.

	D:	Linesman.



	C:	Yes.



	D:	I see. Now your parents, were they originally from Florida?



	C:	Yes, both from West Florida. My mother was out of Midway, Florida, and my dad came from Havana, Florida.





	D:	All right. And so did you get a chance to move from place to place with the work of your father?

	C:	No, no. Once I was born in November, they moved the whole community to Pierce in December.

	D:	I see.



	C:	And that’s where I was reared at Pierce, Florida. The company at that time furnished almost everything. They furnished the homes, they furnished the transportation to take them to work and they—so yeah they furnished the homes and almost everything during that time before. You got accustomed to being handed out. At a period of time they turned it over to them so that they could take their home.

	D:	I see.



	C:	Yes.



	D:	The homes, were they called commissaries or what did they call the areas where the homes were?

	C:	The place it was called—the community was named Pierce, Florida. D:	All right.

	C:	And they had a company store, and the store consisted of where you could buy clothing, you could buy food in the store, and it also had a little drug store in it and they had their own money at the time.

	D:	Yes!



	C:	Yes and the money was good for the whole area. We could spend it throughout the county.





	D:	Yes.



	C:	Yes and they called it, it had a funny name, they called it “babbit.”



	D:	Oh yes I’ve heard the term “babbit.” How about mailing, could you mail something out from your area?

	C:	Yeah they had a post office. D:	Had their own post office.

	C:	They had a post office. We had a doctor, and he had his own clinic. D:	Absolutely!

	C:	And the doctor was one that would come to your home. D:	Uh-huh, exactly!

	C:	He would make a visit if needed.



	D:	Yes, yes. They had many of those type of facilities here in Florida. C:	Yes.

	D:	Now how did you receive your education?



	C:	Well, at Pierce where we lived, we had a school, and I recall my first year in school. We only had two teachers and eventually we ended up with four teachers, and we went from what we call “primary” to eighth grade. After finishing eighth grade, we were transported from Pierce to Bartow to the high school. We had to pass a couple of high schools. There was a high school in Mulberry which was closest to us, but at that time everything was highly segregated.

	D:	Segregated.





	C:	And that high school was only for Whites. In Polk County they only had what about, I don’t know, I remember Rochelle, Bartow and a school in Haines City, Florida, and Lake Wells where they had a high school for minorities.

	D:	I see.



	C:	Yes, and the year I started the high school was the first year that they started busing students out of our community. Before that they had to furnish their own transportation.

	D:	Do you remember what that year was? C:	Yes that was in 1938.

	D:	Ah! 1938.



	C:	Yes.



	D:	And were your buses actual buses because I’ve talked to people in the past and it was a truck and they put a top over the truck and put the students in the back of the truck to carry them and they considered that a bus.

	C:	This was a school bus. D:	All right.

	C:	But it was a different kind from what we have today because the windows had screens in them. They didn’t have let-up and let-down windows, but it was a school bus.

	D:	I see.



	C:	Yes.



	D:	I see. I bet you enjoyed those days. C:	I did.





	D:	I can imagine, yeah! Some of the friends that you had. Who were some of the people that you were associated with, your classmates?

	C:	Well I remember one. We were good buddies all the way until his death. His name was Henry Moore, but there was quite a few in my community that I can recall and most of them now passed, but James Brutin, Lewis McDuffy, [Inaudible 7:44], G. H. Hayes, Gatson Black. We were a school from eight through twelve, and I’ll never forget that during that time they had basketball tournaments, and of course things were segregated. Tournament would be at Florida A&M, and as an eighth grade school we played in the district tournament here in the county, and we played the high schools and we won. We went to the state tournament as an eighth grade school.

	D:	I know you were proud!



	C:	Oh man that was something to go there and had never been that far out of my community.

	D:	You thought you’d never get to Florida A&M! C:	To go to Tallahassee, that was—[Laughter]. D:	I can imagine that was quite an experience. C:	It was an experience.

	D:	Yes it was a fun experience.



	C:	We didn’t have any men teachers so the coach of the team happened to been one of the players, but we have of course, one of the teachers had to chaperone us.

	D:	Yes. Yes, so the teachers were women?





	C:	All ladies.



	D:	Can you remember any of the names of the ladies? C:	Oh by all means, yes.

	D:	Please share some of those!



	C:	Ms. Garrison was our first principal and after about a year in school she left. Ms.



Amos, Annie Amos, Ms. Baby Lee and Johnny Ward and Ms. Thomas. I remember those names.

	D:	Five, wonderful! C:	Yes.

D:   Wonderful! So you had a good memory for those days. Now what did the people do for entertainment? I know sports was important, but what else? Did they go to church? Or did they talk with family? What did they do?

C:  Church was a big deal in our community. They had—the company set up what they call a community hall where they would have activities.

	D:	Yes.



	C:	Now in our school activities, that’s the one thing I remember, our teachers, we always had to participate in at least two or three plays per year and they would be in the community hall and different from now. You couldn’t read your parts, you had to memorize your parts.

	D:	Learn it.



	C:	You had to learn them, and that was a big event for the community, and if the school activities there, but they also had, I’ll never forget, once a week a person





would come in with a movie, in the early years it was silent and the guy would show the pictures and talk about what was going on. That was exciting for us.

	D:	I can imagine! Yes! To see the picture moving.



	C:	And occasionally there would be dances that they would have and these would be bands that would come in and play, and the way they would advertise during the day, they would get on the porch and play and people would gather around before the event started at night, you know. That was a big deal.

	D:	I can imagine.



	C:	And they, also during special days, there would be big picnics and outings. D:	Did they have a May Day?

	C:	And the company would furnish most of the food. Oh yeah, big May Day celebration.

	D:	Any other holidays celebrated?



	C:	All the holidays. Thanksgiving, and of course there was also the Emancipation Day was a big day during that time.

	D:	Yes, yes. Now what day did you all celebrate the emancipation? Do you remember? Was it in May?

	C:	I believe it was May.



	D:	It was in May. It’s usually May 20th. C:	It was May that’s right, it was May.

	D:	Yes there’s usually around the May Pole and all the other activities— C:	May Pole, yeah we did that.





	D:	So you all had a wonderful time in your childhood and growing up being a young man!

	C:	I remember being very happy. D:	I can imagine.

	C:	We didn’t have much, everybody had about the same. I remember when the first radio came.

	D:	Ah!



	C:	And I’ll never forget the year the fight with Joe Lewis? We had put about two radios. The fellow said, There’s a big radio on the porch, and we’d gather around to listen to the fight.

	D:	Everybody wanted to hear the good news.



	C:	Yes. One telephone. They had what they called a “boarding house,” but it was like a little store and a little restaurant and all. I’ll never forget when I was in the service; if I wanted to call home I had to call the boarding house, they’d have to go get my mother, she would have to come—

	D:	That’s true!



	C:	—and talk, yes.



D:  Absolutely. Yes, and usually a phone would be at the commissary or if you had a sheriff or something like that and one at the doctor’s house. Usually had between four and five phones in the whole community.

C:   That’s right.



	D:	And they were in key locations. [Laughter] Now tell me a little bit about your religious background.







C:

Well yes, I became a member of the church when I was thirteen years old and



my denomination is African-American Episcopal.

D:

AME.

C:

AME, yes.

D:

African Methodist Episcopal. Now you an African, you an AME.

C:

AME.

D:

Not AME Zion.

C:

No, AME.

D:

AME okay, so Alan was your founder?

C:

That’s right. Bishop Alan. I had the opportunity to visit the church in Philadelphia.

D:

In Philadelphia? That’s a wonderful experience.

C:

It is. It’s a really wonderful experience.

D:

Yes it is. Now, let’s change a little bit. After you became an adult, I understand



you went into the military.

C:

Yes. Let me go back to something else about the church.

D:

All right.

C:

My mother was a minister.

D:

Oh wonderful!

C:

And she had churches out there now in Bradley, Florida. She started that church



and—

D:

Your mother’s name again?

C:

Rebecca Corbett.

D:

Okay and the name of the church?





	C:	It’s Greg-Ann AME Church. She named it after one of our bishops; Greg-Ann.



Bishop Greg, and they call it Greg-Ann.



	D:	All right, and it’s still operating today? C:	Still operating today.

	D:	Isn’t that a wonderful thing? That’s a beautiful testimony. C:	It really is.

	D:	It truly is. Yes I know your father was proud. C:	Very much so. [Laughter]

	D:	And how did she discipline in her home if she was a minister?



	C:	Well, yeah we had a lot of respect for my mom. My mom was more lenient than my dad. All she had to do was say, I’m gonna tell your dad, and that settled everything, but don’t get her upset.

	D:	I hear you. Tell me this, did you all have to learn any Bible verses? Scriptures? C:	Yes, we did. You know during that time they had catechism.

	D:	Yes.



	C:	You had to learn that, too. I wish I could recall like I used to. We had to learn the Old Testament, the New Testament and things like that.

	D:	Of course, and how about poetry? Did you have to learn any poetry?



	C:	Oh yeah. Of course. Oh man, and I had a problem remembering, but I would make it somehow.

	D:	You got through it. C:	I got through it.

	D:	I understand.





C:   But you could not read, you had to get up and recite.



	D:	You had to recite, and you had reciting days didn’t you? C:	Oh yes.

	D:	Yes and for us it used to be every Monday morning. C:	Is that right?

D:  Yes, it was reciting and they gave you a whole list of poems and so forth to learn during the year. You select whichever one you want, but you had to be prepared every Monday.

C:   You had to be prepared. [Laughter]



	D:	Now health-wise, you mentioned there was a doctor in the community? C:	Yes.

D:  So you were able to get the services needed; health services. C:   Yeah he was one that would visit your homes.

D:   Yes, yes.



C:   And they had a clinic.



D:   Okay, that’s good to know.



	C:	They had a clinic and in fact, I was one that they put in the clinic when I was a kid, about five years old. The milkman used to come through. We had at that time, the roads were dirt roads. I don’t know somehow, my mother told me I ran in front of the milk truck, and it knocked me out, and they kept me in the doctor’s clinic for two days. And one other thing it did help, my daddy stuttered and I stuttered, but after that knock out I stopped stuttering.

	D:	Well listen to that!





	C:	After being hit by the truck. [Laughter]



	D:	After being hit by the milk truck. That is interesting. So whatever it was it had a good response even though—

	C:	It was a blessing!



	D:	It was a blessing in disguise with all of other stress you went through to get your body well.

	C:	Right.



	D:	That’s great. All right I guess at this point we can move a little forward to your early adult life.

	C:	Yes. You asked me about my high school. I went to high school here in Bartow and I think okay—and at that time it was grades nine through twelve and we had—the total population at that time was less than three hundred from first grade through twelve. All the schools were combined. I played football, basketball—

	D:	You were active!



	C:	I tried to do track, but… we had to come to Bartow on the bus, but we had to get home without the bus.

	D:	So you all had to walk home?



	C:	Well we would walk from the school to the end of town. It was so happen, every afternoon a certain truck would come along and pick us up and carry us as far as Mulberry which was four miles from our home and some days we would walk home, some days we’d catch rides home.

	D:	Oh my goodness. So when did you get home? Was it dark when you came?





	C:	Most of the time it would be dark.



	D:	It would be dark yeah, and you probably would be hungry, too.



	C:	Hungry. I had to appreciate my parents because we had to clean our practice outfits before we came back. They had to be washed and clean so my parents would wash that for me. They wouldn’t be quite dried when I got ready to go. I’d ride in the bus; I’d bring them back to school and hang them up so we could practice that afternoon.

	D:	Absolutely! Now what did you do when the weather was not very receptive? C:	We still—

	D:	Still had to walk in the rain?



	C:	Yeah, we still had to walk in the rain. [Laughter] and you know, for some reason, I didn’t complain. I look back now and wonder why. [Laughter]

	D:	Well it made you a strong individual mentally as well as physically. C:	It did.

	D:	Yeah that’s so important to wellbeing and you had a respect for work. C:	Yes.

	D:	You had a respect for people. C:	That’s right.

	D:	And a respect for family. C:	Family right.

	D:	And of course you had the morals to go along with it, with your mom. C:	[Laughter] yeah.

	D:	So that made a whole young man.





	C:	Yes.



	D:	Well that is good that you shared that with us. What was your best subject in school?

	C:	I would say mathematics. Yeah. I used to like to read, but I didn’t like to write. D:	Okay.

	C:	I had to learn to do that as I finished high school because writing was required, but I majored in math.

	D:	All right.



	C:	Yeah I majored in math and I had two minors in health and physical education.



	D:	Excellent, excellent. Okay, we have this all so, when did you go to school? What university?

	C:	North Carolina A&T. When I first— D:	So you’re an Aggie?

	C:	Yeah, my first semester was at Bethune-Cookman.



	D:	Okay all right. I will come back to that just a minute. We’ll start with the college [Break in recording]

	D:	Our next question is involving your early adulthood. C:	Yes.

	D:	Yes from the time of leaving your area and going to college or getting further education. Could you talk about that?

	C:	Yes when I finished high school—let me go back just before I finished high school. At the community we lived in, which was a phosphate community, to pass the eleventh grade at my age I could work with the mining company. So during





the summer months in my eleventh year, I had a job with the mine which I worked at the phosphate, then they would dig the phosphate up, ship it to the bin, dry it, and then ship it out. And you know phosphate is used to make a lot of different products, and of course I did that my senior year. After graduating from high school, working on the mine—money was a little bit slim. I wanted to go to school. I had saved part of my money and I went to school without a scholarship, but when I got there I went out for football and earned a scholarship.

	D:	All right!



	C:	That was at Bethune-Cookman College, and that’s where I was drafted from. D:	Oh.

	C:	I finished high school in 1942, and was drafted in January of [19]43. D:	I see.

	C:	But I had one semester at Bethune-Cookman, played football and made the whole conference team that year.

	D:	Excellent, and then you had to go visit Uncle Sam.



	C:	Then I had to go visit Uncle Sam. So we were called, I was drafted so I was called back home, and they took us from a bus from the courthouse to Camp Blanding, Florida. Went to Count Blanding, Florida, and that’s where I was issued some of my uniforms and everything and had all these physical tests, and we were shipped out from there. I was assigned to an outfit called a “Barrage Balloon” outfit, an aircraft outfit. We were shipped to Camp Tyson, Tennessee.

That was in January. So far I hadn’t been out of the state. I hadn’t been in that kind of cold weather.





	D:	You didn’t know what that cold weather was like.



	C:	With all the things I had on, I felt like I was gonna freeze. D:	I’m sure.

	C:	Yes it was rough, but that particular outfit was a special outfit during that time in [19]43, you know the battle was really going on.

	D:	Yes.



	C:	And they were prepping us for the invasion. The Barrage Balloons, we had these motor units that would have this huge line of heavy steel wire that the balloons would go up. The balloons were filled with helium.

	D:	I see.



	C:	And of course, once we release the crank, the balloons would go up at least a thousand, a little over a thousand feet, and you couldn’t see that heavy metal line. That was supposed to deter dive bombers, and they were getting ready especially for the invasion, and we would go out in the field. We had to also go through infantry training as well, because once you got out there and through with the balloons, you had to get on the line. That outfit was called up, let’s see, in June to go overseas, and I was on the train. They called me off to be a cadryman for the next week to come in to train.

	D:	Okay.



	C:	And as I heard that my outfit went in on the third wave and Normandy. Quite a few of them were killed.

	D:	I can imagine.





	C:	Yeah. I was in—after going out they—in about three weeks they decided they didn’t need any more Barrage Balloon outfits so I was then sent to Fort Bragg.

	D:	North Carolina.



	C:	In an aircraft. That’s where I saw the information to sign up for a paratrooper.



That’s where I signed up, but it wasn’t until I was sent from there to Fort. Bliss in an aircraft outfit, that’s when I got my papers to come back to Fort Benning.

	D:	To Georgia.



	C:	To Georgia, so I went back to Fort Benning and that was exciting to me. You know during that time, the outfit that they wore and how it fit and those nice shiny boots? You know when you’re young you wanna be sporty. [Laughter]

	D:	Absolutely. Gave you a sense of pride didn’t it?



C:  Plus the fact there was some additional funds you got a fifty dollar supplement for being a paratrooper.

D:  I see. That was a lot of money. C:  That was a lot during that time. D:  Yes it was!

C:  And it really helped my family because I sent all of it back home to my family. I kept very little while I was in the service.

D:   I see.



	C:	I was so impressed when I saw Walter Mars and Sergeant Greene came out there and I’d never seen somebody dressed so sharp you know? Well I wanted that. I was gonna make it one way or the other.

	D:	Well that was wonderful! That was encouraging.





	C:	It was and they took us in, and I think they knew what we were gonna have to go through and I thought I was in shape having played football, but I didn’t know what I was about to get into. So before they sent us to the regular training, they kept us about ten days with their training, and boy was it tough. We had to get up every morning and run around the airport. That was about three and a half miles and go through the exercises so when we went over for the regular training, there’s usually about a fifty percent failure, but the group I was in, was about a ninety-eight percent pass.

	D:	Your guys were determined.



	C:	About ninety-eight percent, yeah. D:	You were determined. Yes.

	C:	And that first jump, I remember when I was a kid I always wanted to go up in a plane and the Von Stormers used to come about two miles from us. You know they had these by-planes; they’d come and charge fifty cents. I never could raise that fifty cents. So I’d never been up in a plane. So the first time I went up I had to jump out. [Laughter]

	D:	You got your wish. [Laughter]



	C:	I called my mom and told her I had joined the Paratroopers she said, Oh yeah? She said, Well what do you do? I said, I have to jump out, she said, Boy you lost your mind! [Laughter]

	D:	I’m sure she did! Would you explain the bomb troopers just for the tape? C:	The what?

	D:	You mentioned the Bomb—





	C:	Bon Stompers. These were guys that would come around. They had these— some were by-planes, some were single-wings, and they would come around on fields. They had an open field, they didn’t have an airstrip, and they would have two-seaters, they would sit a couple of people in the back for fifty cents and they’d take you up about two minutes. That looked like a long time. And could ride and take another group.

	D:	Yes.



	C:	And it was only about fifty cents, and I think the adults paid a dollar. We had to pay fifty cents, and I never could get that fifty cents.

	D:	You never could get the fifty cents! [Laughter] C:	Yeah.

	D:	Could you name some of the guys that were in your troop? Say when you all were doing those ten days of—

	C:	Planing.



D:   —training?



C:  I remember, let’s see, who are some of the fellows’ names they put to training? I remember a lot of guys, though. Oh, it was several guys I stuck out with that was already there, but I’m trying to think who’s—oh boy.

D:   Well we can come back to that.



	C:	See I should have written that. It’ll come to me. I can call the names. D:	We can do it later. We can recall them later.

	C:	The guy’s name Ross… I can’t get these names together. D:	That’s okay, we’ll come back to that.





	C:	Because I met so many guys who were you know, they came in later. D:	But now what happened after you all got the training?

	C:	Well, when we got to training, oh man, these guys would [inaudible 28:55] the number of pushups, the number of jogging and exercising you would have to do, I thought I was in top shape. This one guy, he said he had a bad night he came out and he did pushups on one hand and we had to do a hundred.

	D:	Oh my.



	C:	It’s a good thing that they had given us before we left because… I thought doing fifteen to twenty pushups was enough.

	D:	Mhm. And one hundred?



	C:	Right, and the failure rate was really something. The number of exercises you had to do and the running and you didn’t walk anywhere.

	D:	I see.



	C:	You weren’t allowed to walk anywhere. You had to jog or run everywhere you go. D:	What equipment did you have to learn to use?

	C:	Well naturally, you had to learn how to pack your own parachute. D:	Yes.

	C:	We had a packing house and you had to have a buddy or partner to help you do that.

	D:	Sure, sure.



	C:	And of course we had to learn different kind of guns to work with during that time.



Let’s see, what else did we have? I also had to learn how to use the machine gun.





	D:	Yes.



	C:	And the thirty caliber and fifty caliber. We had to especially be good with the compass.

	D:	I’m sure. That was your way in and out.



	C:	Because you can—yeah. We had to learn how to do that very well. Yeah. D:	So you had some very good skills.

	C:	Well, yeah it was good. The one thing about the Army, they had a way of—I think if schools could do it, they could teach you something in a very short period of time and you can do it well. Yes, they were good at that.

	D:	I see.



	C:	And still is, yeah.



	D:	And then after you received the training, where did they send you fellows? What did they do then?

	C:	Okay after our training, we stayed a short while there in Benning, and we were moved to Camp Mackall, North Carolina.

	D:	All right.



	C:	And out at that camp that’s where we stayed and practiced. We would have our—I remember our maneuvers at Fort Bragg with 82nd Airborne.

	D:	82nd Airborne.



	C:	Right. And of course when we got ready to—they were getting ready during that time, the Battle of the Bulge was in high peak and they were getting ready to send them out [inaudible 31:36] they pulled us out, and of course from there on you heard the story. They sent us out west on a secret mission. We didn’t know it





until we got there. We thought we were going to fight—going to Japan, because that’s where most of the action was at the time. We found out it was called—it was a secret, Secret Firefly, and we had to learn to jump all over again because we weren’t jumping in the open areas. We had to learn to jump in the trees at the same time we had to get familiar with a different kind of chute, parachute. A fellow had invented one that we’d pull the white razzers, you could make a three- hundred-and-sixty degree turn.

	D:	Wow!



	C:	Because you would need that to make sure you’re gonna land in the trees, yes. D:	To make sure you land in the trees.

	C:	And so in order for us to qualify we had to do three jumps: two regular on the ground and one into the trees. We had to get used to the chute, and then jump into the trees.

	D:	Jump into the trees.



	C:	That was quite an experience. D:	I would think so.

	C:	Because the trees out there in some of the areas were pretty tall; Redwood and Sequoias.

	D:	Oh yeah those are beautiful.



	C:	Yeah. Some of them go almost three hundred feet tall, and during some of our jumps when we were qualified to go on the missions, there were quite a few missions, and my first mission I didn’t have to jump. We landed on a small airstrip





and walked to the fire, and the experience I got there in a forest fire, I didn’t know it could be so dangerous, but it’s good to be young and strong. [Laughter]

	D:	I hear you.



	C:	We’re fighting the fires and you know, that seemed like nothing is happening. We had rangers that helped us; forest fire rangers and they were good. They really were good. They helped us in all kind of ways and they want us to be alert and ready because sometimes the fire is really burning, you have to back off, they try to spray it down, but then when it gets down you’re shoveling trying to cover areas to keep them from springing up again, but some of that stuff is built up. All of a sudden, one part catch a fire it’s like an explosion. All the oxygen goes out the air, and the heat is tremendous. I remember one time almost about—thirteen, fourteen of us together, everybody’s eyes were singed.

	D:	I can see that.



	C:	And being young when that fire exploded, we were up on a mountain of course, and down below about two hundred feet was a stream. Boy, we got to the stream in a hurry and the water was cold as it could be. [Laughter]

	D:	Bet it felt good though.



	C:	But, landing in the trees was different, and you had to come down on ropes. But we had a different outfit from what we would normally have. Our outfit, we had a headgear which had a metal screen over in case to protect our face, and a special kind of suit to protect us. Once you land in the tree, on the suits you had two metal loops that you would run your rope through, and that’s the safe way to come down, but the trick is that you’re on the side of a mountain and the trees—





sometimes you look like you’re near the landing area, and I think that’s what happened to the young man who was killed. I think he thought he was near the ground when he released, and I don’t think he had enough rope to be frank, but anyway you have to make sure, you have to go all the way down to the end of your rope before you release it, but it was a new experience. It was different and of course we were all trained in a way to detonate the bombs, but they had specialists to do that. If we found a bomb mostly they would call in those who had special training for detonating those bombs that didn’t go off. See the Japs were sending incendiary bombs by the jet stream. And the way they did that, it was a unique situation. The balloons were about thirty-five feet in diameter, and they would have ten sand bags and ten bombs, and it was so designed that the balloons, if they lose a little bit of the helium, they’d come down to a certain point. There would be an automatic release first of the sand bags. After the ten sandbags released, they had it calculated that it was just about be over into the United States area, then it would start releasing bombs. The last bomb was supposed to explode and detonate the balloon. In many instances it didn’t—the balloon just fell with some of the bombs not being detonated, and of course if they ready the story, there was one family that was killed. There was a family of six—a lady and five children—and they saw this bomb. I think it landed somewhere near a beach and they went to investigate it, and it exploded and killed all six of them. To my understanding, they wouldn’t publish it then because they didn’t want to excite the people in the area, and because that really would have been something. Yes.





	D:	Now, could you tell us where this took place? I’m thinking it was out in the west.



	C:	It was in Pendleton, Oregon. We went from Camp Mackall by train; took us five days. That’s a long trip by train across the country. Yeah and it was in Pendleton, Oregon, and there was two groups, though. One group went to California. What was the name? I can’t call the name of the town in California.

	D:	That’s okay. California and Oregon were the two.



	C:	Right. We had two groups there, and I was stationed in Pendleton. D:	And what year was that?

	C:	That was in [19]45.



	D:	Okay 1945. World War II. C:	1945. World War II.

	D:	Okay so—



	C:	Yeah, the war was getting to a close because we were supposed to have been with eighty-second, trying to help put out the fire over there.

	D:	And they sent you there.



	C:	But they sent us up there yeah on a secret mission, right. And as I look at it, I think we did something worthwhile.

	D:	You did a whole lot worthwhile in this United States! [Laughter] Even though you thought you wanted to go overseas.

	C:	Well you know how it is, you train to fight and you want some of the recognition and all. [Phone rings] We can just take it off the hook.

	D:	I think we pretty well—we covered your days up to 1945. C:	Right.





	D:	You came out in [19]47 right? C:	No I came out in [19]46?

	D:	In [19]46.



	C:	Yeah in the early part of [19]46, in February of [19]46.



	D:	Okay are we back on? All right, so February [19]46 was when you were discharged?

	C:	Right.



	D:	And you had an honorable discharge. C:	An honorable discharge.

	D:	Absolutely, and your rank?



	C:	Sergeant. I was still Sergeant.



	D:	Okay, and then what was your next stage of life?



	C:	My objective was to finish school, college. I came home during that time, it was in February, I didn’t try to get into school right away, but I applied. I applied to naturally back to Bethune-Cookman and Florida A&M. And to my amazement, there’s so many veterans are out, and they told me I would have to wait another year. I didn’t want to do that. I didn’t want to do that and—[cell phone ringing]. I should have cut that off. I forgot about it.

	D:	I guess I forgot to say it.



	C:	Now what did we do? I did not want to wait that long, so during my stay in the service I had an opportunity to meet Coach Belle. He was assigned especially to work with soldiers in the area of sports. At that time he was drafted from Florida A&M. He was the head coach at Florida A&M. So I couldn’t go to Florida A&M or





Bethune-Cookman and he was at North Carolina A&T. So I called the college. They told me well, the same problem, so many veterans. They said, But if you can find a place to stay we’ll accept you, and that was during the summer months. I made up my mind and I went early. By going early they was just starting football practice. I went out for football and made the team, so I had a place to stay. [Laughter]

	D:	That was a good way to get in.



	C:	My major field was mathematics. I majored in math and also, minored in health and physical education, and being a little more matured, I made better grades in college than I did in high school.

	D:	Ah yes!



	C:	I was a real good “C” student in high school because my mind was on sports. [Laughter] I could get the work, but I was an honor student in college.

	D:	I’m sure you were. Yes at Florida A&T. C:	Right.

	D:	Wonderful, wonderful.



	C:	And after graduation, I was asked to come here to serve as a teacher. I had several opportunities, but I tried out for teaching. My first semester, I felt like I wasn’t trained enough to do the job, and I asked the principal, I was gonna resign. I had friends who were working in Detroit with the motor companies and all. They were making a lot more money of course, but I enjoyed school so I was encouraged to just stay another semester. The principal came in the classroom and worked with me and everything and I got hooked. I got attached because I





started coaching and that was another area that I really loved. So, I stayed into teaching for thirty years.

	D:	And that was right here in Bartow, Florida?



	C:	Right here in Bartow. Union Academy High School is where I started. D:	Okay.

	C:	And one of the things I can say about—we had good students. We had good athletes. At one time, in the [19]50s, we had probably one of the best high school teams in the state, and we only had five hundred students from seven through twelve. We had also a unique situation where a school that size had put in eleven guys in professional football.

	D:	That was outstanding.



	C:	Eleven guys from a small school that size went to a professional football, and most of all our students who went to college finished college.

	D:	That speaks volumes. C:	Yeah.

	D:	Yes.



	C:	We were doing a better job than some of them said we couldn’t do. We did a good job with our students.

	D:	Absolutely.



	C:	Yes.



	D:	Absolutely, absolutely. Well you all had the determination. You had the background.

	C:	Yes, right.





	D:	And then you had the desire to want to do well. C:	Right.

	D:	Plus you had a little living in there to let you know how things had to be structured in order to make things work and that all pulled together and made a good person out of you, but you were able to transfer that knowledge to the youth.

	C:	And you know what? I really think in especially those three years I spent in the service, and especially those last ones with the people like Morris and Sergeant Greene and Biggs, they were determined to make sure that we were gonna make it. You know during that time there was some reservations about us being able to fly or too scared to jump. Now, they were tough. I’ll never forget that you had to stay in uniform, but some of us wanted to be sporty. We’d come home for Christmas and they had these Makinah topcoats you know that look so good.

They were for officers only. [Laughter] Bunch of us got our coats and went home you know, and came back and Captain Williams, we called him “Black Daddy.” So he called everybody out, told them to wear their coats.

	D:	That’s right.



	C:	Boy he told us to pull off them coats and put them over here. Get me that gasoline. [Laughter] I told you about our uniform [Laughter]. But they wanted us to stay right, and they wanted us to be able, you know, to represent what we were supposed to represent.

	D:	That’s right. That’s proud.





	C:	And I learned a lot. These officers we had were proud officers, and they made sure that we stayed in line and that helped me a lot in my teaching.

	D:	I can imagine.



	C:	And working with my students and I feel good. My students still respect me. D:	And they will always respect you.

[break in recording]



	D:	This afternoon we’re speaking with two people who have knowledge of the military. The Triple Nickles. We have a daughter of a Triple Nickle. Her name is Marie McLeod from Hawthorne, Florida, and we have the gentleman who is Mr. Corbett. They call him “JJ Corbett,” but his name is Jordon J. Corbett. The two of them will speak about the activities concerning the Triple Nickles. Of course, Marie’s father is now deceased and she will speak in his behalf and talk a little bit about their interactions, how they met. Not only how did they meet, what they have in common. All right, we’ll start with Marie.

	M:	Well I consider this a blessing and an honor to be here today and to be with Mr. JJ once again. I met Mr. JJ just really through trying to come together with the community organization in the community of Johnson. [Phone ringing]

	H:	We do a lot of editing so—



	M:	Okay. Ready? I am at this present time, the Director of a youth organization. A youth training program; we call it “YTP,” and we were putting together a community project. And I had lost a lot of information concerning the Triple Nickle, and I must say that a lot of people had never heard of the Triple Nickle but I, being the daughter of a Triple Nickle, I thought that would be appropriate to





do that. And just so happened, I was able to get in touch with a Mr. Morris who was not feeling well at that time, who put me in touch with Mr. JJ, and this has just been a blessing. The moment I saw Mr. JJ and saw all the Triple Nickle pins and whatever, it just brought back a flood of feelings that I had for just my father, and I’m just feeling honored to even be here today.

	C:	And I feel honored having you today.



	M:	Thank you! [Laughter] And that’s how we met. Mr. JJ came down and did a magnificent presentation for us in Hawthorne and we’re still talking about that interview right now, and we want to have him back again. We won’t put him on the spot. He’d just be our special guest and we’ll just treat him with royalty which we just love having him. There is just a fountain of information that is traveling with Mr. JJ, and I just feel real blessed to have this interview.

	C:	And I feel blessed having it with you.



	M:	I would like to ask Mr. JJ, I didn’t really get a chance to get a lot of his time when he came down to do a presentation for us, but I, in listening to him, I just really knew that my father was in the military at a time when it just wasn’t very popular for men of color, and just would like to let him tell me just some of the things that African-American males went through in just trying to endure. They were given assignments, but it sounds like it was made difficult for them to fulfill the assignments.

	C:	Yeah things were different from what they are now. We had to go through a lot, and sometimes, as I look at it now I wonder how did we stand it, but we were able to withstand it I think on the basis of how we were brought up. I remember in





several cases, even after I got my wings and would go into town, we would be stopped sometimes by the MP saying that, Boy you are out of uniform, and things like that. I had several—one situation that was really unique. It was hurting at the time when I was on the train coming from Pendleton, Oregon, home through Texas. Train stops so we could go to the restaurant, but we couldn’t go in the front door. So I wouldn’t go to the back, but what we saw, me and my friend, was that about fifteen or twenty prisoners, German and Italian prisoners, were marched in and sat down. I was in uniform. That was the kind of thing that really hit you, but even when you came home, and I enjoyed all of my stays, but there were moments and all you wonder, Why did it have to be that way? But I’m so happy to see the changes that have come about, and there have been some great strides and great changes, and sometimes like the good book say, you have to have patience. Things gonna happen or you can legislate on paper, you can’t legislate hearts, and it takes time.

	M:	My father served a total of thirty years, and when he retired he was not really happy about what he found when he came out of the military. I would say he was bitter at some of the treatment. He felt the soldiers should have received better benefits and better treatment than what they had, but I would say my father still had a good life. My father after coming out of the military began to work for the postal service and he also went back to school and he was able to, like I said, take care of his family, have a very productive life between his pension from the military and the postal service. I mean everything worked out in the end and we





were blessed. It was just—I really lost a lot of information because he was bitter and didn’t choose to talk about it.

	C:	Yeah and I think that could happen. I guess I had a little different attitude. I try not to let that get inside of me. So, when I came out, I got a job as a teacher. I enjoyed the teaching. I taught for thirty years. I had success as a teacher and as a coach. I had three track championship teams, and I was never the head football coach, but we had ten years of football at one time. One season we had no loss. Others we might have lost one game or so, but we had very good athletic programs, but we also had good scholastic programs you know, the school.

	M:	Okay.



	C:	Yeah there was a lot, and there’s still a lot to be done, but there’s a lot has changed since that time, and I’m happy about that. I was able, after teaching, I retired from teaching in 1980, and I told them I retired and really got busy. Yeah. I was elected to the school board here in Polk County for twelve years.

	M:	Wonderful.



	C:	Polk County is a pretty large district. D:	Yes it is.

	C:	I taught for thirty years and I thought I knew what was going on. It’s not until you get into politics to find out what’s really happening.

	D:	I believe you.





	C:	And that was quite a challenge to me as a school board member, and of course I was a member. I was also, we started what we call a—at that time it was Teachers’ Credit Union.

	D:	Yes.



	C:	Back in the time. It’s now called Mid-Florida Credit Union. It has grown now to almost two billion in assets. I was on the board there for twenty years, and I eventually became a board member for the Citrus and Chemical Bank which I stayed on there for fourteen years at Citrus and Chemical Bank, and I feel I’ve been blessed. I hope I’ve been a blessing to someone else.

	D:	Well I’m sure you have. M:	You have, you have.

	D:	I’m gonna just ask that you insert when did you get married and— C:	Oh yes! Oh boy.

	D:	We got to have the family information. C:	Well now that was my real blessing.

	D:	Yes!



	C:	Getting married to Delores Corbett. M:	Wonderful!

	D:	And what’s her maiden name?



	C:	Her maiden name is Eva Delores Wyatt. Yes and now it’s Eva Delores Corbett and we’ve been married now going almost fifty-nine years. Fifty-eight years. It’ll be forty-nine years July 18th. Yes.

	D:	What year did you get married?





C:   In 1954.



D:   Wonderful!



C:  1954. We’ve been together ever since and the only thing on that particular date, we had one other incident that there was joy and sadness. My mother died July 18th. Yes, in [19]76. So I have two things to remember.

D:   Yes you do.



	C:	But we’ve had a wonderful life. We have one son and he has two children and one of them has two children so we have two great-grands and that’s a joy.

	D:	And your son?



	C:	My son’s name is Jerome and he works with the school board. He’s a senior director with the school board. Yeah in fact, he was here not too long ago. Yes, and during my teaching career, like I said I had three championship track teams and we had very good success with football. So in [20]08 to my surprise I was inducted into the Florida High School Athletic Association Hall of Fame, and then two years later I was inducted to the Polk County Sportsman Hall of Fame.

	D:	Could you tell me something a little about your wife’s occupation and some of her paths?

	C:	Yes my wife, when I married her, she was in Home Economics—Home Economics teacher. And she taught school for forty-one years mainly in Home Economics, and she ended up teaching at a vocational school and teaching drapery making, and she made all the draperies in this house. I made all the draperies. She did a whole lot in designing what you see here.

	D:	I was interested in the rugs.





	C:	Yeah!



	D:	I’ve not seen that too much in homes, but I have seen that in some hotels.



	C:	Yeah I felt like I knew they’re copies, and we saw someplace where they had some designs and [inaudible 58:49] he put these two together.

	D:	They’re beautiful.



	C:	Yeah the guy did that sewing himself yeah; young man. My wife is some Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. She has a living brother. One of—he has a brother and a sister who has passed and deceased. Her mother, Philadelphia, she passed in, was it [19]89? And she lived to be a hundred-two.

	D:	Wonderful!



	M:	Wonderful!



	C:	Had never been in the hospital until she turned one hundred. So she was in good health. She was a lady that lived in a three-story building by herself and was up and down the steps.

	D:	That was her exercise.



	C:	That was her exercise all day. [Laughter] Things have changed for us. Both of us last year in 2012 had our ninetieth birthday.

[Break in recording]



	D:	I’d like to ask you if there’s anything that I did not cover that you would like to make sure is put into history concerning you?

	C:	You know I would like to say one thing about the community in which I was reared.

	D:	Yes.





	C:	We didn’t have a lot, but I didn’t know that. I was happy. We didn’t have a car. It took us a long time before we got our first radio. We didn’t have telephones. We didn’t have cell phones, but I enjoyed—when I look back, I try to look at times when I was very unhappy, I don’t remember many times when I was unhappy. Even though there were times, I remember during that time, people would give out stuff. People would borrow from others; even borrow food, you know. And I look at how we got through, and I have been blessed up to this time. And the upbringing that me and my wife had, our parents, and how it has brought us over. I wonder sometime how did they make it? But, we’ve made it through, and I look back. There were times that children who had a lot and we didn’t and then— things—life can change around in a hurry can’t it? I thank the Lord for my parents and whatever that they instilled in me to be able to have patience and love people. And my other thing I want to say that I’m extremely blessed to have met Mrs. Delores Corbett for my wife and to have a son like Jerome and his grandchildren.

	D:	And that is truly a blessing! Look at the smile! M:	Yes it is! [Laughter]

	D:	We want to thank you today for allowing us to come to your home. Today is Monday, May the 20th of 2013. We’re in Bartow, Florida. Bartow, Florida, interviewing Mr. JJ Corbett, and along with Ms. Marie McDowell.

	M:	McLeod.



	D:	McLeod from Hawthorne, Florida, and the interaction between the two has been just outstanding.





	M:	Oh my!



	D:	So that we could hear more about the Triple Nickels. We can know more about the African-American parachute group that had been pretty much written out of history, but they’re coming back into history now. We want to thank you for your time this afternoon. We want to thank each of you who are present for this interview and we are saying continue. Thank you.

	M:	Thank you.



	C:	Thank you.



	M:	Thank you very much. Thank you so very much. [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Sandra Romero, November 16, 2016 Audit edited by:	Holland Hall, July 19, 2017

	Final edit by:	Sandra Romero, December 15, 2020