AAHP 457;; Harris;; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 469B Oscar Sam Harris African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Dr. Paul Ortiz on January 12, 2017 1 hour | 14 minutes | 34 pages







Abstract: Oscar Sam Harris III grew up in Gainesville when racial tensions were on the rise in both the community and at school, specifically after the federal decision to desegregate public schools in the United States. Mr. Harris recalls his own upbringing in the Deep South, telling stories about the presence of the confederacy in the White community, racist attitudes towards Blacks, and the disregard for Black culture after Black schools were forced to shut down. Mr. Harris also talks about personal moments and events in his life, such as his father’s own racist attitude and the journey he took to overcome it, as well as the Hotel Thomas, which was a pillar in the Gainesville community.





Keywords: [Joel Buchanan Project, African American Project, Deep South, Desegregation, Hotel Thomas, Confederacy, Black History, Black Schools, Lincoln High]































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 469B

Interviewee: Oscar Sam Harris Interviewer: Paul Ortiz

Date of Interview: January 12, 2017



	O:	So, I’m here with Mr. Sam Harris. This is Paul Ortiz. It is January 12, 2017. Mr. Harris, thank you so much for being here. And Sam, I think you wanted to begin with a story about Dr. Mike Gannon.

	H:	Yes, yes. He did the early Florida History of the two courses when I was here in the late [19]70s, early [19]80s. He was telling us about a particular governor I believe, a Spanish governor who had been sent here, and the tales that these folks told of this horrible place they found themselves in when they got to Florida. And this particular individual, I can’t remember his name, but he was not long in the state before he caught something and died. And the people there were trying to be kind to his wife and children I guess back in Spain, so they built a coffin that they were going to seal him inside of and ship his remains back to Spain.

	O:	Wow.



	H:	Yeah, already you see this is not going in a good direction [Laughter]. And they put a plate glass viewing thing in it above his face so that there would be — I can’t remember exactly. But once again this was part of the kindness that they were gonna be ensured that this was your husband/father;; that kind of thing. But still, the kind of heat and humidity and everything here, they were not able. They got him sealed inside this thing, but he was not even on the ship before this thing exploded, because of the gases that built up inside [Laughter], which just made such an awful thing. And not the kind of thing that’s thought of good treatment for the dead and that kind of thing. And he’s telling us this fascinating story and he’s just got, filling in all the details with all the stuff with people we had been reading





about in this period. And he’s bringing all of these folks into this. And then he says, “And I have for you today,” and he goes behind the lectern where this thing was in a bag or had cloth over it or something. And he pulls out this portion of the coffin that had the glass plate in it! [Laughter] And he says, “And this is it!” And this thing is like four-­hundred years old or something. And we’re just flabbergasted, but here’s this guy who earned his chops with the Spanish government. As you know, going over there and finally getting permission, the first non-­Spaniard to get into their archives and all that kind of stuff. And I don’t know whether this was on an exchange with Spain or whether it had been preserved here in Florida, I can’t imagine that, but he had access to that through the museum. It’s like how many classes would you ever get to have that kind of a relic? Just ta-­da! [Laughter] That was the ultimate moment in the story.

	O:	That is astonishing, what a great story. Well you know and I think too, his generation of, well actually, did you ever take a course of Julian Pleasant’s?

	H:	No, but I knew of him, and yes I wish I had.



	O:	So Julian was here. He showed up unannounced like last Thursday, just out of the blue.

	H:	Really? Oh my gosh.



	O:	Yeah, he showed up, and he was in town. We had a great talk, and I took him over to talk to Dave Colburn and Sheila Dickison, and they were all part of that cohort together.

	H:	Yeah, that era for sure.





	O:	Well Mike was the senior one of them, but I had a great time. When I first arrived here, they invited me for a couple lunches. For a while they were doing a lunch where, well I guess back in the day it was Mike Gannon, Sam Proctor, Mark Barrow I believe. They called them, their name on campus was, it was kind of not necessarily, well, I didn’t think it was endearing. They called them the “Three Old Men.”

	H:	[Laughter]



	O:	So they would be together quite a bit. But the thing was, they played a really important role, because they were saving this part of the campus from destruction. I guess we had some deans here in the [19]70s and [19]80s;; the [19]70s was a bad decade for architecture. And so these young guys apparently

— the story that I heard was, and I actually interviewed some former deans who kind of corroborated this, but they said that whoever was president then at that time, whether it was Reitz or O’Connell, had bought into this idea that UF was gonna revolutionize its look. And these young architects wanted to turn it into the first space age campus or something.

	H:	Oh, gee!



O:  And they wanted to knock down all of these unsightly red brick buildings. H:  Oh no! [Laughter]

O:  I’ll say! And the “Three old men,” or there might have been four of them, but I think it was Gannon, Sam Proctor, and I think it was Mark Barrow. And I don’t think Colburn was yet an old man.





	H:	No, no! ‘Cause I knew him, I had a class, but I also knew him because he went to my church. He went to Holy Trinity.

	O:	Well, yeah. You know he’s the director of the Graham Center now, and he’s right across the hallway? [Laughter]. I would read these articles about the “Three Old Men,” and what they were doing was really strategic and it was really ingenious. They were getting historic status for the buildings. Sam was working a lot on getting texts. Like you see these texts, like the Dauer? Who’s Dauer? Well they knew Dauer, and so they were able to really — and when I say save it’s not an exaggeration, because they were able to really instrumentally work to save them. Now, everyone is proud of what they call the “Historic Wayne Campus.” But people don’t realize how close it came to being the space odyssey Wayne Campus. Well they wanted everything to look like that building Turlington basically.

	H:	Yeah, with the giant turd out front, because that’s what we all called it in that time period [Laughter].

	O:	Yeah, the music was good then but the architecture was just— H:	It was abominable!

	O:	But anyway, so I love that Mike Gannon story, which I will share with Julian Pleasants, and Julian was another one. Him and, there was a man who taught European history, and they would dress up for lecture, right?

	H:	Yeah, everybody looked forward in his classes to the day he was gonna wear his six guns [Laughter].





	O:	Probably, yeah. I don’t see myself doing that, not colorful enough. But anyways so, Sam we had a great, this is a great story. Thank you for sharing that story about Dr. Gannon. So last time we were having these great discussions and detail about your great uncle, family-­life, and we were beginning I think to get back around to Gainesville as well. What made Gainesville distinctive during your childhood growing up? What were some of the problems, which lead to this really vibrant, kind of social movement, environment here in the [19]60s and [19]70s?

	H:	I had thought that I might want to — ‘cause I don’t think that I used names last time and in case anybody needed or was going to try and look things up for cross reference, I am Oscar Sam Harris III. My father was Oscar Sam Harris Jr. and I was led to believe that his father who I never met — that grandfather was Oscar Sam Harris. But I have recently found a draft record from the County that he was growing up in at the time listed him as Oscar Samuel Harris. And his wife was Eunice Harris, and she’s the one that by marriage ended up being the half sister to Willis McCaul. And just if that kind of thing is—

	O:	Oh yeah, it’s really, really, helpful. So the draft records from World War I?



	H:	Yes, exactly. And before World War I started apparently they had a conscription written into the law and you had to register as a young man or something at that point. That may be wrong, but I know this was not during the War. Maybe it had been right up leading up to where they thought it was inevitable, or something like that. But, I don’t know any more about him or that he was a barber that’s all I knew.

	O:	Okay.





	H:	Yes. One other story that I forgot in trying to come up with things about connection to Eustace in Lake County, during the time period that my uncle was Sherriff, my dad and I went down there one time. I don’t know if it was — it might have been for one of these George Washington Days celebrations I talked about the last time, but we got there very early in the morning, early enough to go to a breakfast by a club, a civic minded club. I would not put this on anybody, lions or anybody, because I don’t remember it exactly, but it was that kind of group and they were having a breakfast meeting, and it would make sense that this was on one of these George Washington Day things. Anyways, because why we would get up early enough to get to Lake County in time for a seven AM breakfast [Laughter].

	O:	Yeah.



	H:	Anyways, it was a in a clubhouse-­y kind of building in the sense that men would build for something like that. This was not a nice kind of building. More like what you’d expect to go to a fish fry in or something like that. But it was enclosed, and it was cold weather so everything was closed up. And we got there not long before it started and it was packed full of White men. And we were seated at a table and my dad making conversation with people around him, and I’m just being a little kid soaking all of this stuff in. And all of a sudden, there are a few piano cords played, and I’m like, “Oh music?” I’m not tuned in specifically to my dad, but it turned out these were cords for “Dixie”.

	O:	Oh, wow.





	H:	And my dad had to grab me by the arm because upon the hearing of those cords every person in that room stood up almost at attention. And I was left just kind of sitting and he said, “Stand up, Stand up”. And we proceeded to sing Dixie. We did not say the pledge of allegiance;; we did not sign anything, even “God Bless America”, let alone the “Star Spangle Banner,” but that’s the way they started this meeting [Laughter]. And it just stood out in my mind as wow! It’s the kind of stuff you might expect someone to make up for a movie script or something, but it is absolutely true.

	O:	How old were you then?



	H:	Somewhere between like six and ten. O:	Okay. So, this would have been…

	H:	This would have been in the mid-­[19]60s. O:	Mid-­[19]60s okay, wow.

	H:	Yeah, mid the later [19]60s.



	O:	In your recollection, did folks know the words? H:	Oh, yeah! Oh, oh, this was—yes!

	O:	Did you know the words?



	H:	Yes I did, because that was something you just kind of learned, even in school.



It was just because we were learning about the state of Florida and our state song, not “Dixie”, but the “Swaney River” and stuff like that. So this kind of thing came in, but also it was part of the racist stuff that — and there was just this whole “Save your confederate money, boys. The South shall rise again,” thing [Laughter].





	O:	Did people have, speaking of confederate money I mean I’ve heard people talk about this, did people still have confederate money?

	H:	Oh yeah, oh yeah. And it was like a holy relic that was passed down to families. I had seen it pull out in… it wasn’t in my immediate family. My dad didn’t have anything that was given to him. They were so poor, possessions like that wouldn’t have lasted in the environments they were in and stuff.

	O:	But other people had, yeah.



H:  And my dad was an erstwhile coin collector, and he took me to some shows and made sure I got to see the confederate money on display. And it could be bought at that point. There was still lots, and lots of it still around.

O:  We’ve been out — you know the Waldo flea market? H:  Mm-­hm.

	O:	And they have that confederate store. I’ve never actually been in the store, but going around that area it seems like that would be a place where they would have that today. Some confederate currency, I don’t know.

	H:	Wouldn’t be surprised. Paper currency being as delicate as it is I mean we’re talking fifty years ago at this point. So even what had survived up to that point, there’s probably only a small percentage of that left around. I would expect it maybe only to be largely in the hands of collectors who could afford it and could do the kind of archival treatment of it and stuff. I don’t know that one. Who knows?

	O:	Well, speaking of that, do you remember a lot of, say, confederate nostalgia as a kid or that being a part of the culture in addition to “Dixie,” learning the lyrics?





	H:	Yeah, yeah. There was a certain reverence to the confederate flag and it was not all about the fear, the intentional putting of fear into African Americans, but it was about this cultural pride that people were still trying to sell themselves on. There was this geniality of the old south and the door is always open, you are always welcome. The hospitality — the southern hospitality kind of stuff, which in my growing up just meant so counter to the real racism that I encountered and the hatred and stuff that was connected to slavery. The history as I learned it later on as a young man, I started realizing this whole thing of the poorest White people always, you could be dirt poor, but you always had this sense of I’m better than the Black people. “At least I’m White” kind of thing and that carried over. I think that was a large part of my dad’s experience of being so absolutely dirt poor and yet, you still have your dignity because you’re better than even the most well to do Black person, because you’re White, and that was alive and well, here.

	O:	And I think you mentioned that may in part explain what was McCaul’s kind of popularity;; at least in his early part of his career. He’s a person who’s seen as even though you are poor he’s probably not working in your direct interest, but he’s keeping a hierarchy in place, which even though you’re poor you have this stature.

	H:	Exactly. And To Kill a Mocking Bird that captured that so well in that story line, and yet the White man comes to the rescue of that Black community there, which is not what went on in general [Laughter].

	O:	Yeah.





	H:	Which is why that was such an eye-­opening thing to be assigned that in public school, this was high school in the [19]70s.

	O:	To Kill a Mockingbird?



	H:	Yeah and there were still plenty of counties connected to Alachua County that was a banned book. It wasn’t in the school curriculum or in the school library even because that wasn’t a front to “southern manhood” and the whole tradition of this kind of thing. And what went on for the Groveland boys… that was like this is jumping right out of fiction here! And there’s so many others.

	O:	Well, the thing that’s interesting is I workshopped To Kill a Mockingbird with adult learners. And we did a thing out in out Oak Hammock a couple of summers ago and it was fascinating because working with people who are kind of in their mid-­ seventies and eighties, some of them. They read the book initially when they were very young, and I asked them well, “What kind of impact did the book have on you?” So we talked a lot about that. Some of them from the South, others not. But one of the things that people asked me, “What was your”— cause I wanted to understand cause many of us read the book To Kill a Mockingbird when we were kids, or in High School or maybe in college. So now reading it fifty, sixty years later, what’s the experience like now? But one of the things that struck me about the book was, I said, “This book really makes adults look bad.” [Laughter].

Because other than Atticus Finch, and if you read the book carefully, even Atticus Finch doesn’t necessarily come up. And really the character who’s the hero in the end is the outcast Boo Radley. And there’s this wonderful scene between Scout and Jem where the two kids are walking down the street and one of them, I think





Jen or Scott says, “Why do adults act like that?” And Jen was like, “Well they’re all… they don’t know any better,” or something like that. Cause they find that wherever they go they can’t really trust — the people that should be teaching them about morals and honesty and all of those things somehow were just not getting the job done.

	H:	The kindness that they experienced towards them, and are supposedly being taught that in church or something like that, is just blatantly not practiced in front of them. Like you say, they can’t get straight answers out of adults [Laughter] or answers that make any sense, which is why it certainly had to have a huge popularity elsewhere than the south in America, because this… people knew for a fact there was this kind of thing in the deep south. I think that was just part of the mechanism she used that just really made it accessible to so many people.

	O:	Brilliant writer. I can imagine. I wonder if Willis McCaul ever read that book.



	H:	[Laughter] I doubt it. If you could get ahold of the booking records from movies in Lake County, did the movie ever even play there when it was in first run kind of stuff? It’d be interesting to know about that. I would bet not. And something this brings to my mind about Gainesville is the schools that growing up and the teachers. That Gainesville long had out-­stripped anybody local that had teaching qualifications and that kind of stuff. And so a lot of the teachers I encountered, even from elementary school, were from somewhere else and were not from the deep south in general. And because higher education wasn’t valued in the Deep South, so you had to call on people from elsewhere who had degrees and wanted to teach children kind of thing. So, that’s part of what I realize, I credit,





with my worldview being what it was as I grew up and not buying into the racist stuff that was so — was the stew I was growing up in. And I think most of the boys my age who bought into that, a lot of that was just a way to express anger. It wasn’t a real hatred. It was that somebody had to be hated, or if you needed a place to put that kind of negative thing, here’s a convenient. You can hate Black people and then you can just cuss at them, and spit on them, and all that kind of stuff to a degree. Or at least be a part of that male culture that did that and it didn’t matter if your daddy was poor or if you were White trash, because White trash is better than Black.

	O:	Did people use those terms back then? Like White trash?



	H:	Yeah. And oh yeah, that was… you didn’t want to be called White trash, because those were the folks that maybe weren’t better in the White culture’s mind than the Black people, or were no better than, which is an awful thing for that to be said of you.

	O:	When did that happen? Who would that be aimed against?



	H:	Well, I heard it from educated, somewhat cultured, White people talking about uneducated, uncultured, poor, ignorant, and then on top of that there might be incest in the family. That kind of stuff. And then boom! That termed you into White trash and that kind of thing. Or a mother who, from the outside, looked like she didn’t care or could not care for her children. “She’s just White trash. She doesn’t even have that maternal instinct,” kind of thing. Well, good God now we know mental illness and all kinds of things were around for everybody then, just





like they are now [Laughter]. “We’ll be onto you if you’re poor and have those kinds of things.”

	O:	High School kids would say these things about each other.



	H:	Yeah, oh yeah. And then they work their way into, especially during the [19]60s and the [19]70s, into well, that’s just a way to put down somebody else and call them White trash, because we all knew what the meaning was, but that didn’t mean that person fit that. And you probably wouldn’t say that to that person anyways, ‘cause typically violence is a part of that [Laughter]. The definition in there, and if they didn’t come to beat you up, their daddy might or something like that. There was a fear of — and alcoholism all that kind of stuff worked in, too. If you were a judge and an alcoholic, you could probably keep going and get by.

	O:	Yeah.



	H:	But if you were a poor White guy that is scrapping out a living, and you’re an alcoholic, good luck.

	O:	Right.



	H:	You’re probably going to be called White trash, because you’re not supporting your family. Once again, it’s fear, it’s fear of the people who of you are of your same socio-­economic level. You know, “God forbid that happens to me,” you know. I’m glad that’s — but I gotta stave it off by calling it White trash kind of thing.

	O:	So, there’s class differences between — I mean even between White folks in different communities. It’s not like there’s a monolithic White community and everyone is in it together.





	H:	No, expect when some White person was wronged by a Black person, or the Black community asked for or expected something. Then there was this well, “We’re all White. We all stand on this side of the line.” And if you didn’t tow that line, which is part of how that culture cracked up and broke up in Alachua County, because you had these educated people coming here to teach and to be professors here at the University and be a part of businesses that were coming in. Sperry Rand was an electronics, I mean they were cutting-­edge kind of almost Silicon Valley kind of stuff with the making of tubes for TV’s, and radar, and all of this kind of jazz. And they were an employer in town. And what was factory line work, because they did produce this stuff, locals got those kind of jobs. But there were a lot of engineers and stuff like that that had to come in from somewhere else, because that wasn’t available here. Or just like today you have people come to be students at UF and they don’t leave. And they come elsewhere with, even if it’s somewhere else in Florida, especially if it was South Florida, which was being populated by people from the North at that point in the [19]50s and [19]60s, coming here for the sunshine and stuff.

	O:	Right.



	H:	Not necessarily retirees at that point. That’s when the beginning of the building of retirement communities was, but up to that point you had families. Men who saw Florida as part of their military experience from World War II.

	O:	Yeah.



	H:	And they said, “Man, that’s the place to be.” And then when their kids ended up coming to UF, they’ve got different backgrounds, and they get a liberal arts





education, because we did offer that then in the first two years [Laughter]. And then they graduate, and if they stay here they’re running counter to that culture that is here.

O:  Yeah. Well, it sounds like there were changes too within, Sam, because you had mentioned — well a couple thing that intrigued me in our first interview. You had mentioned your father’s view on race seems to have changed with time.

H:  Uh-­huh. Uh-­huh.



	O:	How do you characterize that? Because it sounds like early on he was very much part of that kind of White culture.

	H:	Oh, yes. Definitely. I definitely attribute what he was as a young man in to his middle age as this: “I was so poor and I just had to have something to latch on to. Someway to have some kind of self-­esteem, and it was that I wasn’t Black.” And of course we now know all the psychology and everything that goes with that. It’s a fear kind of thing. And one of things that my dad lived with as an individual was clinical levels of paranoia. So, that certainly didn’t help him wanting to have somebody to be mad at and blame things on.

	O:	Yeah.



	H:	And his wider experience in life didn’t sufficiently change that here in Gainesville.



He did not have to deal with anybody but White people. And so, he could continue that kind of pretense of, “The Black people live on that side of town and they do their thing, and we live here, and we do ours”. And he worked for the federal government civil service as like a payroll clerk for the army reserve. And so, he went every day to his job, nine to five kind of thing, to the army reserve





center on 8th Avenue. But, he was also a member of the army reserve, and I never knew if those two kind of just went together, because he saw a good deal to get back in the reserve or where there was some expectation, or not. But anyways, he retired from the army reserve in his sixties, and even then, the men he would of encountered — all of his coworkers, which were very few, there were never more than three or four men working at that center during weekdays assigned there. But those who would come to drill on the weekends and do their one week in the month, two weeks in the summer kind of thing, they were all White men.

	O:	Uh-­huh.



	H:	And it was very late in things. Part of what I think kind of started — might have been the little piece of sand that turned into the pearl that was him renouncing the racism, was seeing the army go so heavily manned by Black men for Vietnam.

	O:	Yeah.



	H:	And those men that couldn’t get deferments — all of the folks that he was dealing with were White kids who could get deferments and join the reserve or something. They were able to dodge the draft in a sense like that. And then as these veterans came home, and they were Black, and my God they had been in combat as awful as what my dad had experienced, I think that began to kind of loosen things up a little bit. My parents moved away from Gainesville in like 1976 or [19]77, because my dad had got a bump up in his civil service position by going to Melbourne, actually Eau Gallie;; when Eau Gallie was still its own





community to the army reserve center there. And he just picked up stakes and went there. And by the time he was there, the rest of his career he was seeing a lot, you know, it was very integrated service at that point. So, he was having to deal with and he was a chief warrant officer, but still that’s a non-­commissioned officer, and he was dealing with commissioned officers who were Black. And you had the people of color in that community in general. You had retired Black service people just like that place was filled with retired White service people down in that area, because there was an air base close by with a PX. The second largest VA facility was down there, second only to the one here.

	O:	Uh-­huh.



	H:	And it was the beach! O:	Yeah.

	H:	People retired there. They said this is great, and so I think it was in amongst that.



But also he started taking his religion very seriously very late in his life. And l think that was the final thing that pushed him over. He said, “This is terrible. The way I’ve thought, and acted, and spoken is not…” It’s amazing to me, even still, that he would not only come that far, but then feel the need to tell me, which he could have just—

	O:	Now did he seek you out to — was it in a course of discussion or did he…?



	H:	Yeah, during a visit one time. This was in the last two or three years of his life.



He died at seventy-­seven, but it was in that time period that he... and I don’t know whether he had some kind of, you know, just feeling of age, but he didn’t act like that [Laughter]. And he was diagnosed with cancer and died within the





matter of less than three months. He was healthy as a horse up to that point, so he never really became a decrepit old man that would say, “Oh, maybe I need to get this off my chest now.” He’s like most—a lot of folks. He was very surprised that Death was knocking on his door when he got a terminal diagnosis kind of thing.

	O:	Well what you said, it reminds me of a lot of testimony that we heard when we were performing — we had the veterans’ actors performing Telling: Gainesville at the actors’ warehouse. On most of the evenings, there was a group of veterans who would be there, and one of the veteran performers on stage Rick Johnson who was in the Navy talked a lot about racism in the Navy.

	H:	Uh-­huh.



	O:	He was stationed for a while in Pensacola on a ship. So, the discussion about race and the impact of military service on transforming or not transforming race relations came up quite often. It was really interesting to hear some of the retired African American men who had served in the Korean War talking about how things have changed, because they were in that first cohort of when integration had happened, and sometimes it seemingly worked;; other times it did not [Laughter].

	H:	Uh-­huh.



	O:	I mean you mention the school situation and how — what I heard here when the schools integrated it seemed like it was not engineered for success, right?

	H:	No, no. I don’t remember if I spoke last time.



	O:	You alluded to, but we didn’t really get into that.





	H:	Which is right-­on with what we’re talking about with teaching and education part of growing up in elementary school, which was Metcalfe Elementary, which was all White but for one young man. Ronald…oh I knew Ronald’s name forever, his last name, but I don’t — I look back and I have no idea why Ronald was in our classroom from about fourth grade on. And he was bright and he was — because this was back when they tracked you from elementary on, and I was in the top track and Ronald was there in my classes because of that. And once again, Ronald’s not any of these things that you’re talking about. Very quiet child and I don’t doubt that he was not local. His parents’ probably weren’t local. They came here and they said, “No. Our child is not going in those substandard schools.

He’s going into this school,” and was able to make that happen. And probably he was brought up to be quiet;; don’t make waves.

	O:	Yeah.



	H:	But then junior high was all White until, and schools here in Gainesville you went to elementary school through sixth grade. And then, you went seventh, eighth, and ninth were junior high school. And then high school was ten, eleven, and twelve. I went to Howard Bishop junior high school. And during eighth grade was when the integration of the schools in the County happened. They literally shut down over night all of the Black schools, the historic schools. Just closed them, locked them up. And all of those kids were then divided up into the other — the White schools. Then school buildings were begun, which took several years for things to get through the pipeline and get financed, and get built, and all that kind of stuff. And so, we were on double sessions for, I think, two years at the high





schools and the junior highs, because it was only us in Westwood. They were the only two junior highs at that point, which was terrible. It was no way to start this kind of thing [Laughter].

	O:	It was in the middle of the year right, wasn’t it?



	H:	Yeah, yeah. Exactly. And it was with no—very little forethought. Just a scramble that I guess was because of a Court Order, something or just ahead of a Court Order or something like;; where the writing was on the wall. And we think today we bring in people from the Phoenix peace foundation or something [Laughter]. We would do so many things, but no this was just — and if we had just the same, there wasn’t the overcrowding, there wasn’t anything, just suddenly, the classes were mixed race and all that. It would have been a different thing than, “Oh the reason why I have to get up and be to school at seven in the morning and get out at noon. And somebody else goes at 12:15 to 5:15 is because of all these Black kids.”

	O:	Yeah.



	H:	And you had the opposite, I don’t know if I talked about Rodney Long, but Rodney and I graduated the same year. We came together at Howard Bishop and went through Gainesville high school together. And, Rodney was a leader then, not in the way that — it wasn’t the kind of overt kind of leadership that… the football quarterback star at Gainesville was Black. And he ran for student body president, and won based on the fact that all the Black kids voted for him, which was an interesting experience for kids then to see. “Oh wait, you split up the White vote, well, then you guarantee the Black candidate winning whatever that





was.” But Rodney’s was a quieter kind of leadership. After high school, he was in a business venture with a dear friend of mine, so I saw him regularly, just all the time, because I was not technically apart of that venture, but I loaned them my van because I owned a van. And went to gigs with them and stuff just because I was invited along. It was during that time that Rodney and I became friends and it was then that he said, “Sam they devastated the Black community just over night by closing down our schools.” He said, “We had our churches and we had our schools. We had our own culture based on those two things and they just ripped the heart out of the Black community, especially closing the Black high school,” which was Lincoln. And the maltreatment I think of in that terms of the teachers. Part of it, the Black teachers who were in those Black schools, a lot of them did not have qualifications that equaled the White teachers because the schoolboard didn’t care. So, they automatically did not get jobs and of those who did, the top people, like the head of the athletic department and head football coach of the mighty Bulldogs — he was just a P.E teacher at Gainesville high.

And it wasn’t even the first year or so that he was allowed to coach on the football team is what I understood. And that man did me a tremendous favor later on, and I’ll try to include that. But, the head of the marching bulldogs, which modeled themselves on the Marching 100 of A&M, Florida A&M. And they did what my parents would, you know, they’d love to see this band in the homecoming parade, but it was doing “Jiggaboo” music was what. Or, “All that movement, yeah! Ain’t that something? But God knows we don’t want you to





emulate that kind of thing.” And forgive me, but that’s the kind of language that was used.

	O:	Yeah.



	H:	And boom [Snaps Finger] that was no longer. And he was made a middle school band teacher, and was never even considered to be one of the bands leaders at either Buchholz or Eastside when those two high schools opened. So that was sad to realize, in retrospect, what that community had gone through and stuff.

The racial tensions were upped because of all of this overcrowding. Life sucked for everybody. Nobody wanted to be like this, and the Black kids were agitated, and I would have been too. And it didn’t take much for the redneck factor in town within the school, and without, to get this stuff stirred up and we had honest to God riots over race.

	O:	Uh-­huh.



	H:	And at one point I remember being locked down — before this was a procedure that anybody practiced or anything at Howard Bishop, because we had seen earlier in the day what was purported to be a bunch of White boys in a pickup truck from Gainesville high, driving around the school with a big confederate battle flag. And this was intended to try and get something started, and something did get started, somehow. And we were locked in the rooms and told to just sit tight. And the Gainesville police department came with motorcycles and rode through the halls of the school;; clearing the school out. And it was that kind of stuff that was mirroring what was going on in the rest of the county. Our little Gainesville was acting like this [Laughter].





	O:	Yeah.



	H:	And once again, for no forethought. No planning, nobody wanting to do it the right way.

	O:	It’s almost as if the schoolboard and the political leadership…the school board is accountable, too. And I’ve heard this story, I mean, Gainesville as you’ve alluded to is not unique. I’ve heard this story all across the South where it’s almost as if the closure of the Black schools, the firing of much of the Black middle class as it existed, a lot of it’s done without thinking about, “Okay, there are consequences to these actions.” “We’re just gonna do it.” I mean if you understand how the cities operated it’s so astonishing that they could’ve done something so quickly [Laughter].

	H:	Yeah, exactly. Yeah.



	O:	It takes forever to get a permit for something, but you can close down all the schools in one part of the community like overnight. It’s astonishing.

	H:	But this was a small community then, too, numbers wise. So much smaller than it is now. And one high school as far as the Whites were concerned, one Black high school, you know that kind of thing. And to a degree there was glee in the poor White community, because as you say, people who had — people had positons that gave them self-­esteem and decent money to live on as teachers, as that kind of thing in the Black community. Suddenly, those people might as well, you know, they had to go find a pulp job or something. Be a pulp worker or something, because they sure as heck weren’t — there weren’t enough jobs at the University and you still had Steven C. O’Connell here as a racist president,





an openly racist university President [Bewildered Laughter]. So I don’t know what the hiring was, but I imagine there weren’t many positons in like whatever that was 1968 that would’ve been opened.

	O:	Well, yeah there was very low wage positions.



H:  Yeah, exactly. They would have not helped them stay in the — and that was time when the idea of suburbs was just hitting Gainesville in the sense of subdivisions that were all tracked housing in a sense.

O:   Yeah.



	H:	We moved into Carol Estates, which there were like eight basic homes, and you chose which one you wanted built. You could do into a dozen of your friends’ houses and know exactly what the layout was, because it was just like yours [Laughter]. And then the same was done only on a lesser price scale with a much larger one to the North in that same area. But anyways, at the same time there was a builder who came. I don’t know how he ended up being in Gainesville, probably through the University or something, but he saw this whole Black middle class;; he happened to be Jewish and White. And he saw this Black middle class with no homes. White builders weren’t going to build for them, and he went and built Lincoln Estates. If you were Black and middle class, you could have a middle class home, and a middle class lifestyle, and all that kind of thing. And the car industry long before anybody else figured, hey we don’t care what your color

— the color of your money is all green. And so, it was interesting that that kind of thing, and I’m struggling coming up with the man’s name. He built apartments on





the very west edge, student apartments and stuff. And it’ll come to me eventually, but that’s well documented.

	O:	Yeah.



	H:	So, there was this, like you say, a Black middle class that was abandoned. And, that only added to the confusion with everything else with what was going on.

	O:	Did you begin to have Black friends? Like, you mention Ronald. When you were going to school with him though, that was before the major separation.

	H:	Yeah, we were definitely segregated, and that’s how you know Ronald was an anomaly. And no, I don’t know where Ronald lived, but he didn’t live in my neighborhood. We all played together on the playground kind of thing and did projects together and stuff like that in the schoolroom, but I never encountered Ronald outside of school at all, so I don’t know. But, yeah, and it was typically through sports, or in my case scouting was one of the places I encountered when I left my neighborhood troop that I had started in, and went up. It was a good group of men that were dedicated to getting us out doors and all, but they weren’t really bought into the whole scouting program and advancement, which is part of what you’re supposed to be learning and moving on in scouting and stuff. That’s part of what Baden Powell’s — you don’t just sit stagnant for seven years while you’re in-­between eleven and eighteen. You learn things, you move up. And yeah there was a military kind of organization to it, but it wasn’t militaristic in any sense. But these men were World War II veterans and they saw the need for us to be, not be wussies and stuff like that.

	O:	Yeah [Laughter].





	H:	But, I left that troop because I wanted to be an eagle scout and I knew there was no program there that was gonna help me get there. And I had encountered another scout master who said, “I don’t wanna take you away, but you come over here, and I’ll do everything I can because that’s definitely what we’re about.” And it was at the first Baptist Church downtown. And Doyle Hayes was his name and there were Black kids in that troop. And was like, “Okay this makes sense.” There were none in mine, because we were definitely a little White enclave in that very White suburban environment that we were growing up in there. So, yeah. And unfortunately for those White kids, my peers, my White peers, were struggling with racist parents and stuff. They still had to deal with an entire spectrum of the Black community. There were mean Black people. There were ignorant Black people. They were just like, they were all of that in the White community. But, unfortunately anytime that came out it was attributed to everybody. And it took a long, long time for there to be the push that, “no, no wait a minute.” These are scholars just like you. They just happen to be Black. And these are athletes who are also scholars, because of course. “Oh yeah. Black boys are gonna excel at every athletic thing because, you know.” It’s like, oh my God, really? No. And later on in the [19]80s, we actually found out, well, if you have huge hamstrings, you have explosive muscle power, which makes you a great sprinter, which immediately means sprinting track events, football, and basketball you can excel at because you’re fast [Laughter]. And that was so much the heritage of the Black DNA, whereas all these long, tall, stringy White boys like me, we didn’t have that [Laughter]. At the basis of every stereotype, there is some germ of





truth, but it’s been blown out of proportion. And if I can, I don’t know how you want to, if you need to direct me more, but I’d like to share the story about the — he’d been the head football coach at…

	O:	Lincoln?



	H:	Lincoln. And he was my P.E coach at one point and there — I can look back now and understand because of what was being done to the Black community. And they were forced into this day-­to-­day contact, and therefore, day-­to-­day conflict, whereas before there had been this dividing line and we can have our gentle society here, and you can have your gentle society there. As screwed up as it was, that still was the reality. But here, where these Black men especially were coming to school and being called Niggers, and baboons, and apes, and this kind of stuff day in and day out and it was, their faces were being rubbed into their poverty and all of this kind of thing. And the fact that many of them were well behind in school, because they had not had the supplies, the books, the teachers, any of that kind of stuff that the White kids had, so, they were viewed as stupid. That didn’t help anybody’s self-­esteem at that point. So yeah, there was Black on White violence just like there was White on Black. And one day something innocent out on the P.E field on my part was taken as an affront by two young Black men in our P.E class. And our P.E class was like sixty to seventy kids, no, boys in it. There was no teaching. There was a football thrown out for half the year and basketball thrown out the other half of the year. And if you couldn’t survive, then you just sat around, or you walked the field, or something like that, but we were playing a softball unit. When we got into the





locker room I heard this murmuring, and we had to dress in and dress out during those days, and I realized I was the only White boy left in the locker room, and there was a group of probably two dozen of Black guys my age. Within a couple years cause it was mixed up age wise in that particular class. And I was horseshoed into this corner of the locker room, and these two kids came up who felt like I had intended to hurt them with a bat. And I had tossed the bat aside and didn’t hurt anybody, but they were like, “You threw that bat at me!” kind of thing. And they proceeded to beat me up and break all my ribs and stuff. And I was the least offensive of the White kids [Laughter] and they left. I was in tears, I was scared to death, and I was physically hurt. I came out and Coach was the first one I ran into. And he was so kind and so comforting. He said, “Who did this?” And I told him. He said, “I know who they are, they’re bad seeds, they’re bad seeds, and they will be dealt with.” Of course I got home that night and my dad flipped out. “Black boys did this to you? I’ll be damned if that’s gonna happen.” He went over to the school, and fortunately the principal at that time, Dan, who just retired as a school super intendant.

	O:	Oh, yeah! Boyd.



	H:	Dan Boyd, I think he got involved at that point and said, “You’re gonna simmer your White ass down.” [Laughter]. “You are not gonna mess with my school with this kind of thing.” And those kids were expelled for a number of weeks, but they came back, and they continued to taunt me, and they were eventually taken out of the school and put into a special program somewhere. But my dad came to respect this man who had helped me and dealt with these kids, because he was





front and center saying, “I don’t care what color they are, they’re out of here. You don’t behave like that. I’m ashamed of them.” That could have changed my whole perspective on things, but it didn’t, fortunately, because I had a friend who was— we were in scouts together, and we were good buddies. We did bicycling together. We used to ride all over Alachua County and all the other counties before we knew what 10-­speeds were [Laughter]. And then when we got 10-­ speeds, man, it was great. But he had a physical confrontation where he got — he was on the losing end of it in the locker room. And he is still a racist today;; hates Black people still. Went as far as Utah and joined the Mormon Church, because he heard that they were an all-­White organization.

	O:	Ah, he’s in for a surprise then, right? That changed!



H:  [Laughter] But you know, this was thirty-­five years ago when it was still to a large degree. Officially they had put that aside, but in practice they weren’t. Anyways, if you need to redirect me or clarify—

	O:	No, these are wonderful stories Sam, and I’m thinking if you’re amendable to it probably you know another session where we talk about, because there’s some questions kind of percolating, and I want to get to this time period when you’re thinking about college. But I’d kind of like to start our next session where we kind of start there, because eventually you do matriculate to UF. So, that’s a very exciting time. It’s also a transition into the administration here, and I want to ask you about certain folks. So if you don’t mind why don’t we ago ahead and stop now?





	H:	Sure. I had one more thing in the small town nature and end it, well, it’s actually two things if I may.

	O:	Okay.



	H:	One, connected to school. If you were a good student and a good doobie [Laughter] as we grew up being called, you’re a good doobie from Romper Room not the smoke of choice, you were made a part of the safety patrol when you were in sixth grade. And you literally went to the surrounding streets, and you helped kids cross traffic and stuff.

	O:	Wow.



	H:	And there was a little bit of something on campus, but not much. And you had to mind your P’s and Qs to keep doing that, but I was just one of these kind of kids that just naturally just fell into that stuff without having to say, “I gotta get better, so I can do that”. I was just—

	O:	Like an honor student that kind of thing.



	H:	Yeah, exactly. And it was with no effort on my part, end, kind of thing, which ended up drastically effecting my university career. But at the end of the school year you were rewarded with the opportunity to go on the train to Washington

D.C. And the half of dozen or so elementary schools that existed, White ones, all got together, and we went down to what is now the Santa Fe downtown campus. We boarded the train down there at the seaboard coastline train that took us straight to Washington D.C., and back we rode the train for almost, I don’t know, almost twenty-­four hours to get that far. It was quite an experience for a boy who





hadn’t done much in that regard. But that was when the train still ran right through the middle of Gainesville, and that was a working train station.

	O:	Where Depot park is now or...?



	H:	No, this is where Santa Fe the downtown campus, you know the long, long, long building?

	O:	Right.



	H:	What is closest to the police department. O:	Okay.

	H:	All of those were subdivided. Those were freight rooms, and rooms where you bought a ticket and waited;; waiting rooms and stuff. And we got on, and we went up there and met our representative and had our pictures taken with him and stuff. And it’s still done today, but it is a freaking mess, because they take thousands of kids from Alachua County, and it’s all done with law enforcement largely as the organizers of it, because they want to make sure it’s safe and stuff. Anyways, the other thing that brings in the earlier than my time period of Gainesville in the rail history, when there was the train that ran down Main Street;; the tracks were in Main Street. And I remember seeing those still there before they pulled them up and paved them over when there were no trains still running on them. The Thomas hotel, which is now the Thomas center and was Santa Fe community college’s first home, was a hotel then, and was still the nice hotel. We didn’t have Holiday Inn or anything like that. Well, we did. We got a Holiday Inn, the one that was at 13th and University during my like junior high years, but, Thomas hotel was still a very well thought of place. And people went there for





Sunday lunch and stuff like that, because there weren’t many restaurants in town. The only other real restaurant was the Primrose Inn that White people went to. And that was owned, as I said last time, by my Godfather, Byron Wynn. And he later on went and built the Wynn jammer. I ended up being best friends with a boy whose mom was a Thomas, and had grown up in the house next door to the Williams Thomas funeral home. And her mom remembered and still rued the day that the Williams were allowed to buy into that, because it had been the Thomas funeral home for so long [Laughter]. I can’t remember exactly, but I think she was married to a brother major Thomas who built the Hotel Thomas. And my parents had a stormy relationship, violence, and things like that. And at one point, my mom actually took me and we hid out in the Thomas hotel, because we could stay in our room, eat, and never leave the place, because my dad was — he drank too much, and he would get violent and stuff. So, that was a memory there and then, later on, I met the Etherington family, which was the one. The mom… was a Thomas. When they finally shut down the Hotel Thomas, because it had been moving along, it was still a business thing, but it was a good thing when they were able to interest the community college in this piece of property. So when they shut it down, I was one of the last people to spend the night in what was the Hotel Thomas. They shut it down to the public and there were five kids in this family, the Etherington family. And they, and I, and a couple of other friends went in there and we spent two nights in the place. And we did things like get in the dumbwaiter and go up and down from floor to floor, because we were small enough. And my remembrance was there was what is now the Spanish court,





there were still tables set up in the — I’m sorry not that, but the dining room next to the Spanish court was the dining room.

	O:	Okay.



	H:	I don’t know what they call it now;; the wood panel. There were still tables set with the fresh China and linens and all of that ‘cause they were like, “Okay we’re closing.” And the family was in the process of going through what was there furniture-­wise, because some of it was things that they wanted, because they remembered it. It was things that they had grown up with, or that kind of thing.

And, unfortunately, nobody was going to be interested in it. So, they had all of this what would be so valued today as part of Gainesville’s history was just chucked at that point.

	O:	Yeah, yeah.



	H:	And we got to spend these two nights in there just, not running amuck, but we were just—

	O:	Exploring. That’s so cool.



	H:	Yeah, exploring, and having…so, those were just two things I wanted to throw in. O:	No, those are great stories. Yeah.

	H:	Cause that was a real — the beginning of a very different Gainesville coming along with the opening of Santa Fe and the whole community college idea, which was put in place by — the man they brought here to do that for the state of Florida lived in Gainesville, because this was the center of education with UF here. And he went to my church, Holy Trinity Episcopal, and his son and I were





acolytes together, but I didn’t know till later on his dad was the father of the whole community college system in Florida! [Laughter] It’s those kind of weird things.

	O:	Well, cool. [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	N/A



	Audit-­Edited by:	Jennifer Romero, July 8, 2019 Final Edited by:	Sandra Romero, October 22, 2020