AAHP 576, Brown, Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 576 Russell Brown Interviewed by Jillian Hill on July 24, 1996

33 minutes | 19 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Mr. Russell Brown starts by discussing his upbringing in the Dunbar area and how integration began during his years attending Dunbar High. Mr.

Brown then talks about the occupations of most of the Black residents in his neighborhood; stemming from construction work to domestic work. He then speaks about being called to preach and his passion for Church as well as his hopes for his children in the future.



Keywords: [African American History; Integration; Education; Fort Meyers ;Dunbar, Florida; Fort Meyers High School]



Standards

	SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.

	SS.912.A.7.8 Analyze significant Supreme Court decisions relating to integration, busing, affirmative action, the rights of the accused, and reproductive rights.



AAHP 576

Interviewee: Russel Brown Interviewer: Jillian Hill Date: July 24, 1996



	H:	Good morning, this is Jillian Hill and I am going to be interviewing Reverend Russel Brown, the pastor of Antioch Missionary Baptist Church. The church is located at 163 Carolina Avenue here in Fort Meyers. I will be interviewing Reverend Brown about 10 o’clock this morning. I am interviewing Reverend Brown because he is a graduate and a native of Fort Meyers.

	H:	We are speaking at this present time with Reverend Brown, and he is a native here in Lee County. Reverend Brown, what year were you born?

	B:	I was born right here in Fort Meyers in the year of 1953. March 21st, 1953.



	H:	Were you born in a hospital or was there a midwife or what situation was that? B:	It was a midwife--

	H:	Do you remember her name? B:	Her name was Mayola.

	H:	Oh Miss Mayola I’ve heard so much wonderful things about Miss Mayola. At that time how many children were there all together in your family?

	B:	There was four of us. My sister Eliza who’s the older, my brother Marvin who’s under me, and my brother Gregory who’s the baby of the bunch. He don’t like to be called a baby, but he is the youngest.

	H:	Are they all living now?



	B:	They’re all here in Fort Meyers.



	H:	Well that’s wonderful! Originally, where did your parents come from?





	B:	My mother is, from what we call, the panhandle area. She’s from Gulf Hammock, Florida a little town that no longer exists, it’s just a place on the map. It’s called Gulf Hammock. And my father was originally from South Georgia.

	H:	Is Gulf Hammock near Pensacola anywhere? B:	The nearest town would be Brooksville, Florida.

	H:	Brooksville, right. And your father you say is somewhere?



	B:	He’s from South Georgia. A little town called Dawson that’s about thirty miles North of Albany.

	H:	Whatever brought your parents here to Fort Meyers?



	B:	My parents came here, Mrs. Hill, seeking employment and they actually met on the Trail way bus. Mother was coming from Gulf Hammock and dad was coming from Georgia. And they met on the Trail way bus in, somewhere around 1945.

	H:	So they came into Fort Meyers itself in the [19]40s? B:	In the mid-[19]40s

	H:	Right, now when you grew up as a boy, do you remember anything about your neighborhood? Were there many houses around? What’s some of the places where you lived?

	B:	I grew up on Blake Street. I was born on Market Street and when I was six months old I moved to Blake Street and Blake Street is where all my childhood memories are.

	H:	Now, is that considered Pine Tucky, Safety Hill, or The Bottom? Which phrase did you use?





	B:	That was considered Safety Hill. And later on they renamed the entire area to Dunbar, but it was always called Safety HIll when I was growing up.

	H:	Do you know why they called it that?



	B:	Well, from what my father told me, it was always one of the high elevations in the area and whenever we had flooding the area never flooded the way some of the other local areas did. So they named it Safety Hill.

	H:	What do you remember in your early childhood life when you were a boy running around about five or six, were there mostly trees or a few houses?

	B:	Lots of trees, Mrs. Hill, all dirt streets in the Dunbar area. During my childhood the only paved street I can remember going through Dunbar would’ve been Anderson Avenue which was renamed to Martin Luther King, but all our streets were dirt streets and periodically they would come by with the shell truck and dump shells and they would bring a packer and pack it down and then they would get a grater and grate it and then they would bring an oil truck, I call it, and put an oil mixture on top of it to keep the dust down which did very little. It was still dusty and very, very messy when it rained.

	H:	And that’s what I was gonna say, but it was still kind of bad when it rained. [Laughter].

	B:	Very bad when it rained, it flooded everywhere.



	H:	Can you remember any of your early childhood neighbors that were names of the ones that lived around you?

	B:	Well some of the ones that stand out in my mind was our neighborhood grocer, his name was J.C. Jinlax [5:04]. Jinlax was a household word in most of





Dunbar, he was known to have some of the best country sausages around at that time. And people came from all over Dunbar to get to Jinlax.

	H:	Where was he located, his place?



	B:	He was approximately right in the middle of Blake Street.



	H:	On Blake Street, I see. Can you remember any other names? Were there any church people or any property owners that you know of?

	B:	Well there was one couple that lived on my street that they took care of apartments, of tenement houses for some local constituents. Their names were Walter and Agnes Davis.

	H:	Were they Black?



	B:	They were Black folk. The Davis’ were always taking care of some apartments that covered the whole one side of the Blake Street area and what we call the Blake Alley area. And a lot of local folk that I know came out of that area.

	H:	Now, were these homes owned by the people, or were they owned by White people?

	B:	They were owned by White people, Mrs. Hill. H:	So they were rented?

	B:	They were rented out by the Davis’.



H:  I see. Now, you lived for the most part on Blake Street, did you go to school from that location?

B:  Yes I did, and one of the fondest memories I have is walking from my house to Franklin Park Elementary. And Franklin Park, at that time, the principal was Mr. Waldo Salters and he was a very permanent, very loyal, and long-time educator





in our area. One of the stand outs, in my mind, is a now deceased person, her name is Mrs. Carrie Robinson, and she started the Carrie Littleton Academy in North Fort Meyers. She was my first and second grade teacher.

H:  Is that right? Now that was about what years are you talking about? B:  1959, 1960s.

H:   In the [19]50s, that was before integration.



	B:	Way before integration Mrs. Hill, we didn’t know anything about integration during those years.

	H:	Well you really had some well-versed and trained teachers because I understand the teachers that you had in elementary school were very good teachers and they really had a good responsibility with you children.

	B:	Mrs. Hill during those days the teachers were so up on what their children were doing and what their children were about until if a child slipped behind in their studies or if a child was naughty in school, the teacher would actually come to the house and talk to the parents. And if you looked up and saw your teacher’s car pull up in front of you-

H:   Oh boy!



	B:	You knew you’d had it, and that’s how close the community used to be. Teachers would actually pay home visits if a parent requested it.

	H:	I see. Now, when you went from Franklin Park was there a middle school situation? Or did you go right into high school?





	B:	Well, before I got out of Franklin Park they did a rezoning of the elementary school so I went to Old Dunbar for a couple of years, I went to Dunbar for fifth and sixth grade.

	H:	Who was the principal there at the Old Dunbar School? B:	Mrs. Stallworth

	H:	Oh, right.



	B:	A very dear sweet lady.



	H:	I remember her very well. And, when you went to Dunbar, did you graduate from there or did you go to another school?

	B:	I went from Dunbar Elementary to Dunbar High, and I actually graduated from North Fort Meyers after integration came into full swing.

	H:	So you found out about integration during your Dunbar experience or when you went into North Fort Meyers?

B:  Well during the time when I was at Dunbar High, somewhere during those years integration began to come about. My sister was actually on of the first people to integrate the Fort Meyers High School during those early years of the [19]70s.

H:   And your sister’s name again?



	B:	My sister’s name is Eliza Rowe, she’s married to Reverend Wendell Rowe. H:	Right, and she was one of the first to be integrated in North Fort Meyers? B:	Into Fort Meyers High. She was a green wave.

	H:	Isn’t that wonderful! Did you feel an experience that was different as you noticed people were moving around from one race to the other, with busses and I don’t know what else they were doing?





	B:	Well Mrs. Hill, those early years of integration for the Lee County School System was chaotic in some areas and it was a smooth transition in others. I only remember one incident at North High is when a teacher and a child had an altercation of some kind and about ninety percent of the children walked out that day. And it just so happens I was home sick that day, and I didn’t get a chance to walk out in protest. But I was also put on the list of those that walked out, and I never really walked out because I was home ill that day.

	H:	Do you know about what year that was? Approximately? B:	Uh Mrs. Hill, it’s been so long.

	H:	About [19]65 or so?



	B:	It was probably around [19]71.



H:  Oh it was later on? Uh-huh. Can you remember some of the teachers that were quite profound in your mind as you went into high school and went into the later years of education?

	B:	Oh I can think of many standouts in my mind. One of the dearest ladies I can think of right now, and she has not been out of the school system too long, was Mrs. Martha J. Williams, another one is Mrs. Ida Wells, Mr. Selmoore he was one of my P.E. teachers. And I could just go down a list, there’s so many of them. One that just passed away was Coach Steve as we called him.

	H:	Yes, James Steven.



	B:	Mr. James Steven, and then there’s another one that’s still alive, Coach



Graddick we called him. He was super then and he’s a great person now.





	H:	Well you’re talking about our coaches because you played in the football, or baseball, or what?

	B:	Actually, I didn’t Mrs. Hill. My father ran a construction company and from the earliest as I can remember I was always helping dad with that construction company. So I didn’t get the chance to do sports the way some people did. Now, my younger brother Marvin played basketball because he didn’t try to do much in the construction field.

	H:	I see.



	B:	But I helped dad a lot doing construction work.



	H:	As you think about that economy of the time where most of the people were they teachers or were they workers or on the farm or were there domestics—what kind of work were they doing as you can think of from your boyhood on up?

B:  Mrs. Hill from my earliest recollection, a lot of the Blacks that lived around the area where I did—either the men did construction work or either they did farm type labor and a lot of the ladies were domestics into motels either working in residential type domestics.

	H:	Was the salary very high or was it just kinda menial, just about enough to make it?

	B:	Well Mrs. Hill, I don’t know what the adults were making but when I was a kid [in audible 13:46] in my early teens when school was in, I was not able to do construction work. I did construction work in the summer time but in the winter time when we got break for like Christmas, a lot of us kids did farm labor and if I remember correctly we would work all day and get around thirty dollars at the





end of the day and that was in tomatoes, cucumbers, or gladiolus, or something along those lines.

	H:	Where was the farms location?



	B:	They were located mostly in south Ft. Myers around the Iona and the south McGregor area and now that whole area is either condos or shopping centers.

	H:	And you had to take a bus or was there a mode of transportation—did you walk?



	B:	Mrs. Hill, there were buses everywhere. We had what we called, “The Corner” at that time. At four a.m. it looked like it was in the middle of the day with the traffic for the buses and the people coming and going. And even where our airport is now, all of that area was farm area. They called it, “Daniels Parkway” now and back then it was Daniels Road and it was a dirt road, one-way in almost and one- way out and it was a bumpy, muddy, dirt road with nothing but miles of miles of tomatoes, or either cucumber fields or either bell pepper fields on either side of that dirt road.

	H:	So for Ft. Myers and Lee County was the garden area of the Florida anyway because there are so many that came just for gardening and working.

	B:	Well Mrs. Hill, --



	H:	Flowers too.



	B:	There were people at that time where both the Mom and Dad did that farm type labor and they raised large families off of their income. In those days, rents were not very high and groceries were not very high and people could live comfortably—well not comfortably—but they could get by off of what they were making.





	H:	I heard that five dollars was quite a sum of money and you could buy quite a bit of food for five dollars.

	B:	Well, Mrs. Hill I can remember very vividly one Christmas my father took me to the grocery store with him and he bought a turkey, a ham, and all of the candies and nuts and fruits and all of the trimmings for that Christmas dinner and even the rest of the groceries for the rest of the week for us four kids and hisself and my mom and he spent twenty-five dollars on those groceries and he really hit the ceiling.

	H:	[Laughter]



B:  He said it was highway robbery and it was more bags than any of us could tote with. I thought we would never quit carrying the bags up the house. And he had spent twenty-five dollars so things have really changed.

	H:	As you think about the changes in Fort Myers, I know that we started getting some streets paved and were there lights and so forth that you see the various changes?

	B:	Mrs. Hill, the Dunbar area though it doesn’t look very, very progressive, the way it looks now, I could remember a time when it didn’t look the way it looks as it looks today. We had no sidewalks, no paved streets and no city lights. The only place you saw sidewalks or city lights or paved streets was Anderson Avenue and that was the only street in our area and Anderson was really our own little downtime area—

	H:	Your main street.





	B:	It was of some sorts. We had variety stores and we had our grocery stores.



There was a, what we call a B & B Grocery store which later on has evolved into the You Save Supermarket.

	H:	Oh, I see.



	B:	It was owned by the Beavers and occasionally if you see one of the actual owners in that little store and we had our own movie theater which is called The Grand and it wasn’t very grand but it was ours. [Laughter]

	H:	That’s right.



	B:	And uh—



	H:	You had little cafes and barbershops.



	B:	We had beauty parlors, we had drug stores—just about and even had a shoe store that one time I could remember one Easter my father took my brother Marvin and myself and himself and we all got white shoes.

	H:	Oh wonderful. That was a big memory. Listen, as far as the churches are concerned, have you always been a member of the same church or are you been member of different churches?

	B:	Well, Mrs. Hill from my earliest memory, I was always at the Baptist church and our family always attended Jerusalem Baptist Church.

	H:	Jerusalem Baptist Church? Where was that first located when you first came?



	B:	Jerusalem, when I was a child was a little church that sat on the ditch bank and right on the corner where the current church is only it was closer to the corner and it was a big open ditch that ran along side of it.





	H:	Right by there and who was the pastor as you can remember with so many pastors?

	B:	The only pastor that I served under all the years I was growing up even to my early adulthood was the Rev. Hubbert Nichols.

	H:	Oh yes—Sister Nichols’ husband, right. And so, surely after that did you move from another church?

	B:	Shortly after his death, we moved our membership to the Mt. Herman. H:	To Mt. Herman? Where was that located?

	B:	In the current location. The only thing is that it’s evolved into a, what I call, a mega church. It covers the whole block.

	H:	Doesn’t it? Yes, who is the pastor then because they had a number of different pastors?

	B:	The pastor that I joined under was A.D. Ward and he’s actually the man that I started to preach under.

	H:	When were you called to preach?



	B:	Mrs. Hill, I can’t even remember when I was called to preach because I’ve always preached.

	H:	[Laughter] from rocking back the house to steps and everywhere else.



	B:	I can remember when I was twelve or thirteen-years old, I would get into the backyard and the whole house I was raised we had all kinds of trees there, we had mangoes trees, guava trees, and mulberry trees in the backyard. We didn’t suffer for fruit in the summer time because we just got enough trees and I can





remember getting in the backyard of those trees and I would build myself a pulpit and I would have my sister and my cousins, and my brothers—

	H:	They were your congregation.



	B:	And they were my congregation. And we would sing and after we would after I would preach, what I called preaching, I would pass the basket and they would put leaves in the basket as offerings. So I can’t remember Mrs. Hill when I started to preach but I started officially twenty-one years ago.

	H:	That’s right and you speak so favorably at times of Rev. Harris because you had a lot of apprenticeship under his leadership didn’t you?

	B:	Well actually, I tell everybody also told him that he was the one that really showed me how to pastor. He didn’t do very much verbally instruction but he just told me “watch him” and I watched him and Mrs. Hill some of the techniques that I call from Papa Harris and that Papa Harris taught me, I’m using right now.

	H:	Well I think that’s wonderful. Now we go to your children. How many children do you have?

	B:	I have three sons, Mrs. Hill: Russell Jr. who is seventeen, the middle son Timothy who is thirteen and the younger boy Samuel who is ten.

	H:	That’s wonderful—do you have special dreams for your children that you would love to see happen or do you just want them go through life leisurely? [Laughter]

	B:	Mrs. Hill my utmost dream for them is if they would all if they want to get college educations. If not, do something constructive with their lives so they don’t just drip by and let life pass them by and not assert themselves and make them decent citizens of some kind.





	H:	That’s wonderful. Behind any good man I believe is a good woman. Now your wife where did you meet her? Is she a native here?

	B:	No my wife is not a native. My wife was actually born in New Jersey and her family is from the Hillsborough county area. They are from the plant city area. I met my wife in revival meeting.

	H:	Revival meeting—I see and she moved from where she is to here after you got married or how did that work?

B:  No, her mother and herself have lived—well her mother had lived on Eddison Ave for the last oh twenty six or twenty seven years and my wife did all of her education also right here in Lee County.

	H:	Oh I see. I feel she has been quite a compliment to you since you had been working out of the field because it really takes a lot to work together as a team.

	B:	Mrs. Hill, Mary has really been my backbone. She’s the person that boost me up and she’s also the person that help straighten me up when I need some straightening up. If I start to sag in certain areas, Mary is the first one to see me sag in those areas and she’s tells me about it. She gives good, constructive criticism.

	H:	Yes and she works with a number of people. Where is her job at?



	B:	My wife works for HRS where she has worked for the last twenty years or so.



	H:	So that helps her a lot in working with the church and different ones that you have to have dealings with.

	B:	Well, she’s a people person. She’s worked for the Division of Aging and Adults Services and in her employment, she works with all kinds of people. She works





with people who are disabled and some that are stroke victims and some that are disabled some kind some kinds of ways and she has to communicate with people on high and low levels and I just say she’s a people person. She knows how to handle people very well.

	H:	I’m just about the end of this interview but do you remember Williams Academy or Williams Primary School? Do you remember any of that in your history or has anyone ever told you anything about that?

	B:	Well, Mrs. Hill I’ve heard all the old timers talk about it. Now the current building that is now being showcased by the Lee County Black History Society, that building is located on the old Dunbar property when I was a kid.

	H:	That’s right.



	B:	And it actually housed our band room at the time and I can remember very vividly going into that old school building when it was just a classroom on the campus.

	H:	Oh and you went in there for band practice or those that did have band practice? B:	Those who did have band practice went in there.

	H:	I see.



	B:	They were my friends and sometimes I would sneak in with them just see them. [Laughter]

	H:	Now, you went to Dunbar High. They had those steps going upstairs. What was upstairs? Special classes?

	B:	Upstairs at Dunbar High, I can remember I had two classes up there. I had English by Mrs. Tallaver.

	H:	Right! Vangellin Tallaver.





	B:	Who’s still very much alive and she’s another standout in my mind. A lady I love and respect very much and also, down the hall was a guy by the name of Mr.

Mingo. He taught me math and I can remember Mr. Mingo, if you went to the chalkboard and you didn’t get the answer right, he’d whack you across the knuckles with his yardstick. So I remember him very well.

	H:	I’m sure! Now I know that at Dunbar they had special little holidays where they would celebrate with the different students and staff. Do you remember any of those holidays that they would have special programs or assemblies or go out on the grounds?

	B:	About the only thing that stands out right now with me, Mrs. Hill, is at Franklin Park when we would have May Day.

	H:	May Day.



	B:	And the teachers would have us dress in bright colors, festive colors. The girls— in those times, they would wear the little cancan with the little skirt standing out and we would plait the Maypole. I can remember very vividly plaiting the Maypole on May Day.

	H:	Right. Bringing it around. B:	Right.

	H:	Now I understand that Mrs. Edison did come to Dunbar at different times to observe the programs and so forth. Do you remember her?

	B:	Mrs. Hill I think Ms. Edison was long gone by the time I came on. H:	She had passed away?

	B:	She passed away.





	H:	Also was Mrs. Sams. She wasn’t there either?



	B:	Mrs. Evelyn Sams was always the lady that did the Easter Parade. H:	Yes.

	B:	And I remember her very well. She was a very tall, very elegant statuesque lady that looked very elegant on Easter when she would lead off the parade with her big, wide hats and she was known to wear these big festive hats. She was the one that always led the way on Easter.

	H:	At the time that you were going to school, Dr. Velasco and his wife, they had passed away?

	B:	Mrs. Velasco was still very much alive but Sir Dr. Velasco had passed away. H:	I see. So those were some of the prominent people that you could remember. B:	Oh yes.

	H:	Were there any political aspirations in those days other than—at Friendship, I forget what the Pastor’s name is but he tried to work with—

	B:	Reverend Isadore Edwins.



	H:	Reverend Edwins, he tried to work with integration and so forth.



	B:	Well Reverend Isadore was a very young, very dynamic pastor at that time. And, he was a standout. He was the kind of fella that didn’t back down. Whatever he thought was right, he was very Bulldog-ish about it. He stood behind it a hundred percent and he was a very well-respected individual for his ideas.

	H:	Wonderful. Well, we’re just about finished. As you think about the years of the span from the time you were born and grew up here as a little boy, and now you’re a man and a pastor at the church. Do you feel that there is something that





stands out in your life that you really feel has been the pride of our Dunbar community? I know it’s hard to think of positive things but I think we do find that a lot of times, if we can give a little thought there would be some positive things that really stand out.

	B:	Well Mrs. Hill, one of the things from my childhood that I remember so well is the cohesiveness that used to be in our area. And now that we—I’m not saying there’s anything wrong with integration. Integration had to come about in order to give Blacks a better way of life. But in the days when I was a little boy, there was a cohesiveness. Everybody knew everybody. We had what we called, “Neighborhood Spirit,” or “Neighborhood Pride.” Which has eroded to non- existence, I would say. It’s not there anymore. That spark of integrity that used to go along with being a school teacher or a pastor or a minister or somebody along that line. Our area just does not have the family feel of the togetherness that it used to have.

	H:	You think the rise of crime has taken away from this closeness?



	B:	Well, Mrs. Hill the drug culture that came along in the late [19]60s and really blew everybody away during the [19]70s and [19]80s and even into the [19]90s, I think it’s what eroded a lot of our neighborhood and killed a lot of our neighborhoods. Just really changed our way of life. People don’t know people anymore the way they used to.

	H:	So our only hope is by knowing God and being closer to him.



	B:	Mrs. Hill, if a person that does not know Christ is their personal savior, I feel like they’re already in a world of trouble.





H:  Well I wanted to thank you for taking time out from your busy schedule to give us some of your answers on this interview and I look forward to letting you see what is written up on these. God bless you now.

B:   Thank you very much.



[End of Interview]



Transcribed by:

Sandra Romero

February 6, 2020

Audit-Edited by:

Sandra Romero

February 18, 2020

Final-Edited by:

Sandra Romero

April 20, 2021