AAHP 334; Taylor; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 334 Clenton Taylor African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Raina Shipman on May 7, 2014 40 minutes | 23 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 334

Interviewee: Clenton Taylor Interviewer: Raina Shipman Date: May 7, 2014



	S:	And you said your name is Clenton Taylor. T:	Clenton. C-L-E-N-T-O-N.

	S:	Okay.



	T:	Just a little different from Clinton, not like Bill Clinton. S:	Okay.

	T:	Yeah.



	S:	And are you married? T:	Yes, ma’am.

	S:	Oh you’ll just start, oh that’s fine. [Laughter] And what’s your spouse’s name? T:	Ginger.

	S:	And does she go to Macedonia as well? T:	Yes.

	S:	Okay. And where were you born? T:	Melbourne, Florida believe it or not. S:	Born here.

	T:	All of my life.



	S:	Even in Macedonia? T:	All my life, I’m a lifer!

	S:	And were your family also involved in Macedonia? T:	Yes in fact my daddy was the former pastor here. S:	Oh really?

	T:	Yes.





	S:	When was he pastor?



	T:	He was here for 30—something years. In fact this building is named after my dad.

	S:	Oh really.



	T:	The John W.T. Ellison.



	S:	Oh, she just mentioned your father; the last interviewee. How long was he here?



What years was he here for?



	T:	Oh God I can’t, 31 years. He was here like 30—33 years. S:	Oh wow.

	T:	That’s a long time.



	S:	Yeah, and was his parents also involved in it?



	T:	Yes, my, both my paternal and maternal grandparents were members here. Uh- huh. His dad was a, ya’ll too young to even know about that, a country circuit preacher. He traveled from Pensacola all the way to Miami. All over he was. And I don’t know how he ever had 10 children, I remember because I used to ask that. I even used to ask my grandmother, we used to call her “Bom bom.” “How ya’ll have ten children?” And he tells me “One handed,” but I guess, oh well.

	S:	And what was it called, a circuit? T:	A country circuit preacher.

	S:	And that’s preachers who travel?



	T:	He traveled, he established churches, and stuff like that. Or preach if the Evangeline’s had a spot, or whatever it is.

	S:	Oh wow.





	T:	And yeah.



	S:	Oh okay. And so that’s what brought you to Macedonia. So your dad was the pastor when you got here?

	T:	Yep, Uh-huh. I was born there in Melbourne. S:	Okay. So you were baptized at Macedonia? T:	Yes ma’am.

	S:	And when were you baptized? T:	Oh God you asking me.

	S:	[Laughter]. You can just give me a range. T:	I was baptized at eight years of age.

	S:	Eight years.



	T:	In fact I was a member of the cradle role department, and that’s where they have the little babies in little corners, in little rooms, yeah.

	S:	What was it called? Cradle role? T:	Cradle role. C-R-A-D-L-E, cradle.

	S:	And what exactly is it, they have the children?



	T:	They have the little babies; in fact we still do a lot of that now. They call it the nursery. But at that—

	S:	Oh okay.



	T:	But at that time we called it the “Cradle role.” Yeah.



	S:	Okay, and what have you done like in the church? Have you been involved in and different aspects?

	T:	When you a pastor’s son you have no choice. [Laughter]





	S:	[Laughter] No choice.



	T:	From everything to sweeping and mopping. One of the things I did, I was the director of choirs. Three choirs simultaneously for twenty three years. That’s without pay for the public record only. [Laughter] In a way I had no choice. When I finished college my dad said “I need you to direct the choirs.” Being a hard— headed fellow I went to choir rehearsal, but I didn’t direct the choirs. So the word got back to him that I, hey, he didn’t direct the choirs. So my dad said, “What did I tell you? I want you to direct the choirs.” I said “Yes sir.” “Well next time you go to choir rehearsal, I want you to direct the choirs.” So I started back in the [19]60s.

Probably [19]66—[19]67 was maybe the year.



	S:	And how long were you—



	T:	Ya’ll weren’t even born yet were you?



	S:	[Laughter] How long did you direct the choir?



	T:	23 years I did three choirs. Choir number two was just a choir and the male chorus, in fact I’m in charged member of the male chorus. I’m one of the members who got the Macedonia male chorus started, I worked with two to three other fellas.

	S:	Oh, so you’re doing that right now?



	T:	Yeah, still singing, still, 47 years in those choirs been going on.



	S:	So have you always been in the choirs since you started at the church?



	T:	Ever since I can remember, from being a little thing, could hardly sit in the chair without touching the floor, yeah.

	S:	So what caused you to get into the choir? Because your dad was a pastor?





	T:	I had no choice.



	S:	[Laughter].



	T:	As they say, I would drug the church. I don’t mean drug—drug, I mean drug you going to church. [Laughter]

	S:	But you said—



	T:	But my side of the family were members of this church. My grandmother—my dad’s mom—paternal grandmother. That was their life, and her husband being a minister. There were ten kids in that family, okay? And all of them right here in the Melbourne area. And my maternal grandparents were right here in the area, in fact just right around the block. There were eight children, so all of them was a member here, so all the family were here.

	S:	Oh wow.



	T:	So all the family were here. So I have a lot of family. Still have quite a few that still a member of this church, not as many as there used to be. Some have scattered out, in fact, my brother is a minister here in the area. He’s younger than me, like seven years younger than me. He has a church right there on university boulevard, just right down there.

	S:	Oh wow, and what is the name of that church?



	T:	Mt. Zion, New Mt. Zion Missionary Baptist Church yeah.



	S:	And you said you still have family members that go to Macedonia? T:	Oh yeah, oh yeah, yeah.

	S:	Is it like cousins, or aunts?





	T:	Aunts, I have aunts that still go to church here, I have cousins that go to church here.

	S:	Oh okay, and do you have children? T:	Yes.

	S:	How many?



	T:	Two sons. Grown and gone. One’s up there in Tallahassee, working on the degree. My oldest son is in Sacramento, California ex-military. Yeah he’s out that way.

	S:	Okay, and did they grow up in Macedonia as well?



	T:	Both sons, my youngest son, directed choirs also here in this church. In fact they even have a video earlier, I forgot how many years. He said he started directing choirs at age 9, the youth choir. Very musical, still musical; both of my sons. He’s now 46 years of age.

	S:	Okay and you said you started directing the choir when you came back from school. What school?

	T:	From college. I went to the same school that you guys had a shot of the day, on St. Augustine beach. I was also in that crowd.

	S:	Oh you were there?



	T:	I was in that crowd back then, 1964. S:	Oh wow.

	T:	I was a sophomore during that particular time, there was some names, maybe I shouldn’t even drop them on here since it’s public record and all that, I better not drop them, but I was just thinking about some of the Ku Klux Klan members that





were involved during that time. One of the names was Hoss Manucy. That’s a known name in the state of Florida. There was a doctor. A Black dentist by the name of Doctor Hayling. He was a dentist. He was one of the civil rights leaders there in that particular Saint John County, or St. Augustine Florida, during that time. I was in the march; in fact I held a cocktail table, a round table for Martin Luther King when he was speaking in St. Augustine because there was no room inside of the church. It was so crowded on Washington Avenue in St. Augustine that he had to stand up—he spoke inside—but there were so many people outside that he had to speak outside on a megaphone. No AP, or no public address system like that, just a megaphone. And we held the table, four or five of us holding this one little round table.

	S:	He was standing on—



	T:	He was standing on the table, and turning around talking to people during that time.

	S:	So you met Dr. King?



	T:	Yes I guess you can say. There were so many people, and so many things.



Hosea Williams, Julian Bond, all those guys were there. Jesse Jackson, Andrew and what’s his name? I can’t believe that name escaped me. He was the Mayor of Atlanta during that time. But all those guys were there in St. Augustine during that time. I was listening; I was trying to remember which one of the gentlemen said that about the acid import, I think Dr. R.T. has mentioned that.

	S:	Uh-huh.





	T:	I was there during that time when I was done, and not only the acid would pour in the food, that was the Monson Motor Lodge, that was the name of the hotel. Not only that, they put alligators in the pool too, so it would stop Blacks from getting into the pool during that particular time.

	S:	You said you were at the beach for the film? And what can you remember? T:	Total chaos. There were Klansmen. There were people from, not all from St.

Augustine, but there were probably known Klan’s people that came to converse on the beach—trying to stop all of the students, the citizens from the area, Black, from going in. And there was some Whites that were involved too, that was with the Blacks; stopped them from utilizing the beach during that particular time.

	S:	And what would they do to stop them from using the beach?



	T:	Well fighting, yeah, throwing stuff. Spraying mace, they were doing all kinds of little things to stop you.

	S:	And what cause you to go there and get involved?



	T:	I was a student, I was involved—student involvement on a college campus.



Course I was involved here in Melbourne with sit-ins and so forth before I went to college so naturally I continued when I went off to college.

	S:	Can you talk about any sit-ins that you did in Melbourne?



	T:	Yeah from drug stores, counters, sitting down and eat, that sort of thing. Bathrooms, you don’t understand Colored drinking fountains and Colored bathrooms; I’ve gone through that. Let me tell you, it’s something, especially being a small child, and wanting to get a drink of cold water and your mom or dad say, no, “You can’t drink out of that fountain.” “Well why? All these other people





drinking,” “No you can’t drink out of, you have to drink out of this one over there, this one over here.” We would because this water was cold, this was a refrigerator cold, so you had to drink out of this one rather than that. Looking at Nora and how she looking at me. Yeah some of you have probably never heard of anything like that but, not only that, when I first went to college you did not sit in the front of the bus—the greyhound bus. Public transportation, you had to pay your money like everyone, you sat in the back. The only time I can remember sitting on the bus was when kids from A&M would come from Tallahassee on the straight bus to Miami. Students from Tallahassee picked up their kids from Overwaters, and picked up the kids at Florida Memorial and then Bethune Cookman. And we could sit anywhere on the bus, but otherwise during that time it was all Black bus, usually with a White driver. And of course we have a lot to talk about. [Laughter]

	S:	And when you did those sit-ins and things like that, did you ever get in any trouble?

	T:	Well we had water, and spat on, little things thrown at you. I can remember even driving through this neighborhood, getting egged on at times. But there were a contingency of men in this area who would not put up with that shenanigan. I can remember my father, and a bunch of other gentlemen that were standing outside, waiting to meet that opposition. Those guys were really really bold. And I don’t know if we have that kind of stuff today, but those old guys did not play around. I can think of a lot of them who was there, they were ready for combat, whatever. And they didn’t stay long in this community, shot one or two times, but after that I





don’t know how the word got around in the community, because you see during that time you had party telephone lines, you call and you might not get anybody, you might get somebody else, and the word got out that these guys were coming. I can remember them trying to come down our street, and I mean those guys they were not playing with them, yeah.

	S:	So your parents were supportive of you doing sit-ins and stuff like that?



	T:	Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. I’m pretty sure they were probably frightened, something, but during that particular time I think all the boys and girls that were my age, maybe a few, really participated in it. We were told years ago, because the school all blockade, this stuff is coming, it’s coming. One day you going to be here going to school with White kids, and this and all that sort of thing. I never did go to public school, grammar school nor high school with White students, but when I first started teaching I taught with a White teacher, and of course when I started teaching and integration in school, I was the only one; the only old fly in the bowl of buttermilk at schools right in this particular area. The only one there. So, you talking about feelings, well you get strange kind of feelings. Well I made it, and I made it through oppositions, and a lot of students don’t understand.

Sometime it’s not what you know or who you know, it’s how you handle yourself too. You have to be able to handle yourself, and I think that’s one of the things that really really helped me. And having faith, and believing that hey you can do this sort of thing, even though you know that they whispering about you, or they don’t want you there. Well you have the faith to believe in God, that hey he’s gonna take me through this and I’m going to succeed. And that’s pretty tough





sometimes. You’ll probably feel that sometime when you going through that examination to sometime, been there, done that, I understand that yeah.

	S:	And what was the name of the school you started teaching at?



T:  I started teaching right down the street here, Stone, it’s now Stone Middle School. Well during that time it was Stone School, it was a combination of kindergarten through 12th grade. Yeah.

S:  And you’re still teaching to this day? T:  No I’m a retired old school principal. S:   How long were you teaching?

	T:	I taught, I was in education for 39 years. S:	And always at Stone school?

	T:	And I still look young, I saw how you looked at me. S:	[Laughter] You always at Stone School?

	T:	No no no. I started out there, I was there for two years. I started out in physical education, and I was not a phys ed major. But you could teach out of the school, I meant of field for one year during that time. And next year they put me, I was in elementary ed major, and I taught a combination of 3—4, classroom. And from there that’s when they start really integrating school. They sent me on in Indian Harbor Beach, it’s on the beachside, and I was there. I was there by myself, I can remember up until five years, then they try to bring a young lady there and she didn’t last long. I take that back, there was a music teacher that came there, and then she transferred and worked down in the Miami area, yeah.





	S:	And do you remember being in Macedonia, if they got involved in any of these civil rights movements?

	T:	This was their headquarters. Macedonia, well not this particular area, but this church, which was on South Avenue, which is now, was the headquarters for any civil rights movement. In fact, I guess you could probably call it the NAACP headquarters during that time. The gentleman that spoke at the end there, Jackson, was talking about this particular ground here. With the big saw mill, and up under this church there’s some boulders you would not believe almost as large as this church that they dug. That’s the foundation of this church. But his brother was one of the presidents of the NAACP during that particular time, and he and a few other gentlemen in this particular area really really was involved, and we stand on those shores that day because of the things that they did. Yeah.

	S:	So people would like meet here to discuss different—



	T:	And strategies. Try to encourage the boys and girls about, as well as the adults, who was gonna march. About things that you need to do, things that you didn’t need to do. If you felt like you were gonna be violent, you don’t need to be a part of this particular. And it takes toughness to stand there, and I give it a case and point. Marching in St. Augustine, I’ve seen an adult, White male with brass knuckles hit a five year old girl. And you had to continue to march without reacting. That’s tough. That is tough to do, but those things to get into your first notion is to attack, hey you’re not gonna let anybody spit on you, not kick you, but a lot of that was happening. Throw water on you, whatever it was. In St.

Augustine they threw loose dogs, I wasn’t there that particular day.





	S:	Uh-huh.



	T:	Throw water hoses on people, I wasn’t there. I know a lot of boys and girls, kids, that are college students, my peers. Some got hurt during that particular time, some got locked in jail, I was fortunate, I never was there during that time. I that they were locking up people, but it was happening during that time. But to actually be in the battle it is something, it’s really really different, yeah.

	S:	You said some of the names of the Ku Klux Klan members, so you actually knew who they were?

	T:	The head, Grand Dragon, was Hoss Manucy, like Hoss cock, right? [Laughter] that’s what we called him, Hoss Manucy. And he was supposed to be tough. I’ve seen one young fellow, he was a citizen of St. Augustine. If you ever check the archives of St. Augustine in the civil rights struggle, you’ll probably hear about Dr. Hayling and all, but this one guy who was really deeply involved, he got cut across the stomach where all of his intestines fell out. This is actual stuff that I’m telling you about, okay? So this thing was happening. Dr. Hayling and the same guy, they posed as clansmen, at a Ku Klux Klan meeting. Now Dr. Hayling was a very bright skin Black man, course hair, nice looking. So the other guy, he was a bright skinned fellow, maybe a little darker than Dr. Hayling. Done the Ku Klux Klan. This is nothing, I’m not putting this together, this was actual stuff and infiltrated the Ku Klux Klan meeting. And they find out that they was there, and of course they got away, they got away. Dr. Hayling could not stay in St. Augustine after that particular, we had to move to Cocoa, Florida, just right up the street— 22 miles. Yeah, Dr. Hayling. So it was some tough stuff going on during that time.





	S:	Yeah.



	T:	And of course the slave market still existed there in St. Augustine, the little slave market where they had the—of course it’s an ancient city, a historical city. Yea, a lot of slaving, a lot of slave trading went on in that particular city as well the old fort and all that stuff that’s there.

	S:	And do you have any cherished memories of your time here in Macedonia?



	T:	Yes. Macedonia has always been a youthful place. It has always had a lot of children, always done things for young folks, and encourage young folks to do well. From learning how to speak, I can remember being a little toddler and a lady by the name of Vasilia, she was my kindergarten teacher, okay. You could be two, and if you could talk you had a speaking part. And they would march you on this little stage, this little stage, and you had to say a peach, it was nothing but. All the boys had to go up and salute and you say your speech. All the girls had to curtsy, they taught them how to do all of that. And it started your public speaking. It taught you how to speak, and that you were not afraid. And I could remember my little speech was, first one was, “Merry Christmas, and have a happy new year.” Everybody, yay, clapping like you got up there and said “Jesus’ Well.” The smallest verse in the bible but you said something, but every kid had something to do. And so from that upbringing until singing solos, my dad, because my dad would set me up in the podium with him. [Laughter] Cause he knew how I would get, and my little legs swinging and had the little high top white shoes on, as a baby you had to wear blue high top shoes. And my dad said, come on up here and sing a song. And I sang Jesus love me yes I know, and he





wouldn’t leave me home, he had to go preach somewhere at another church. “Come up here boy, you sit down, and you sing this song.” I had to sing. So that started, that started me going. And ever since then I’ve been singing in church, in fact I’ve even sang professionally. I’ve traveled a little bit all over the world, doing some things, singing. All in college choral, gospel quartets, rock n roll groups, a little bit of everything, yeah yeah. So I’ve been musically involved, I used to play about seven instruments when I was in high school. I went to college and I put all those aside and I wanted to go into vocal music. And I ended up taking voice for like four years, and was going to major in music, till they said, “Learn how to play the piano.” My thing is I never could get it right, I couldn’t even play “Mary had a little lamb”, so they said, you need to try another major my friend. [Laughter] So elementary education really struck me, and I enjoyed working with little kids, I still enjoy it, even though I don’t do that much anymore. You get to a certain point in your life, you say, well, I need to step back and let some of the younger folks handle this rather than me. Because my patience is not as long as it used to be. Especially after you work in the field for thirty-nine years; that’s a long time, yeah.

	S:	And what instruments did you say you played in high school?



	T:	I played, I played, my main instrument was the French horn, that crazy one that comes out the back. I played the mellophone, trombone, little trumpet, flute, bass drum, bass horn. I used to do a lot of different stuff, marching band, in fact as small as I am I was the drum major of my high school band.

	S:	Oh!



	T:	For the last, what? Two, three years I was in high school.





	S:	Oh wow.



	T:	[Inaudible] and all of this kind of thing today. [Laughter] S:	Did you play any instruments here at the church?

	T:	No no. Never played any instruments here.



	S:	And what other ways did Macedonia impact the community throughout the years other than just the civil rights movement?

	T:	It’s been somewhat of a resource, a place where, we have people at this church, we always have as long as I can recall, a place where if you wanted any kind of information or anything to be done, there was someone here with the expertise. Whether it was law, whether it was down to cooking, down to education, how to obtain scholarships or whatever, engineering, we have all kinds of people that’s here. Even the present mayor of Jacksonville, Florida—Alvin Brown—went to church here, he’s the mayor. He went to church here, my mom and dad fed him like he was their child. Now he’s the mayor up in Jacksonville, yeah. There’s a lot of young people, guy by the name of Harold Frasier, he’s probably a little older than you guys. Harold Frasier, professional musician, appeared on the Johnny Carlson show and several T.V. shows. Right out of this church, and he playing for the youth choir here at this church. So there’s a lot of talented people that we’ve had in this church, and there’s a lady by the name of Tarissa, what is Tarissa’s last name? Professional gospel singer, stuff like that. We’ve had so many different kind of folks, and of course there was me. I sung with the Drifters for about five years, you never heard of The Drifters have you? You too old, but you’ve probably heard “Under the board walk.”





	S:	Uh-huh.



	T:	You’ve probably heard of that. That’s the song. I traveled; I traveled with them internationally, nationally. And I did that for like five years with Bill Pinkney, he was the only living Drifter out of something, South Carolina. And I sung with them.

	S:	During college?



	T:	Oh yeah, oh yeah. I was even a principal during that time. I would go like for holidays and on weekends, if there was a long weekend and do that sort of thing. Fly me out, I might be in Kuwait, stuff like that. Or in Saudi Arabia and stuff like that. They would fly, fly us out like that.

	S:	And how long did you do that for?



	T:	Five years. I did that five years. Yep, travelled nationally, singing with those guys, it was a lot of fun, but there was just, there’s some thing’s that just don’t fit you. I enjoyed it, I enjoyed the comradery, but it just, it just didn’t really really fit. Now sometime I’ll sing with them now, some of the guys just in the area that was a part of it, two of the guys, we’ll get together and we’ll sing a little bit now. It just don’t fit. I love gospel music, especially old, traditional gospel music, grandma kind of music. I love that kind of stuff; that’s my thing.

	S:	And where do you think Macedonia is going from here?



	T:	Well the only place that I can think of is up. There are a lot of things that I can think of from Reverend Massey, because he’s the one that baptized me, to my dad, under his administration, to reverend Harris. I can see things that has changed from ancient times, I call it ancient, from my childhood until I became an





adult when my dad was here, up until now that I’m a senior citizen. I can see the changes that have taken place. And all of it is good, all of it is positive change.

And of course, you and your colleague were talking about the technology, the change; hate to have a little eight track radio or player, or cassette player. I mean that was something like that at one time alright. I could remember when I first started directing the choir. For you to have a cassette or a reel-to-reel, they were so large and so thick, they had reel over here and reel over here, and that’s the way we would record different things that you want to work with the choir with, and then took cassette. We thought we were hot stuff when we had a cassette.

Now you got, what is it, DVDs, CDs, and all that sort of thing now. And look at all the stuff. I can remember when we first brought an overhead projector in there, that ain’t gonna work. Now, we got big screens that they put everything on. The hymns, and everything. The preacher even takes a sermon from that and everything. Yeah, I can recall all of that. You talking about the advancement. And studying and then how it is helping people to even understand the word of God even more. Years ago I can remember older ministers, some couldn’t read. So what they would do, they would get somebody in the congregation to say, okay, so and so, I want you to read the scriptures. So the minister would read the scripture, John said so and so and so, and the preacher would say, and John said so and so and so. So this individual would tell the preacher what said in the scripture and the preacher would preach from that. Have you ever heard of “God’s Trombones”? Have you ever heard the Negro Sermon James Weldon Johnson? Have you ever heard of him? Look up “God’s Trombones”, then you’ll





see and you’ll hear, okay. And then God stepped out on space he said ‘I’ll make me a man.’ Okay, a lot of that comes from that sort of thing. A lot of that, a lot of that old stuff comes from that sort of thing. But that’s what a lot of ministers who could not read during that time, but they would feel with the Holy Spirit. And that sort of thing, until now. Until this prevalent age, a minister basically has to have a degree because you’re dealing with different people in your congregation who has a degree. You see back there then, a lot of our fore fathers didn’t have a degree, you could say anything, fried chicken was served at the Lord’s Supper. You know what he meant, you can’t do that no more. So it was a big change and Macedonia is on the move. We are growing, we are a happy family type church. This is the hugging and kissing church if you ever want to go into. I mean people hug, they kiss. I mean, a happy type thing, and they encourage the young folk.

They encourage the old folks. I think somebody mention it, we just lost one of our real seniors—107 years of age. And that lady was dynamite. She would stand up at church just as strong as mine right now. Do you remember Nora? She would stand up in church and even use the microphone. Children you have to learn how to love each other. That’s her sermon all the time—love, loving each other. And she’s gone home to live, be with the Lord right now. But I’m fortunate too. My mom is 92 years of age. Yeah. Soon her next birthday in October, hers and mine are in the same month and mine is the 23rd and hers the 28th. My mom, she can’t, I’ll put it this way, she don’t go to church as much as she used to. Legs wont allow her. Sometime mentally, and they just don’t move as fast as we do, but they’re still moving. She still have presence of mind, but that’s a blessing in





this damn time. Because she allow her siblings, they didn’t have that when they was younger, She was like the second oldest child in her family, out of ten. So man that’s, that’s tremendous. If the lord allow me to live that long, well look well I don’t know, I tell you, I’ll be happy. I tell you, there’s a doughnut in the doughnut factory. [Laughter]

	S:	And when you were going to Macedonia I can imagine that it probably was a much smaller congregation?

	T:	Oh yeah, oh yeah.



	S:	Did the larger congregation make it a lot different or—?



	T:	Oh yeah because you don’t know people the way you used to know them because it has gotten larger. So you’d contact with certain people. You see, I knew Nora’s parents before I knew her. Yeah, and I really knew her dad before I really knew her mother, because my conversation with him, talking with him that I got to know him, then I got to know her mother, then her daddy’s famous apple pie. Nora knows what I’m talking about. [Laughter] I keep picking on Nora over there.

	S:	Okay, alright I think, I wish I could just sit here and talk a lot more about, there’s so much more to talk about.

	T:	Well Taylors are known talkers. S:	[Laughter].

	T:	If you ever met my father, if you met my uncles and aunts, and I come from a long line of educators on both sides of my family.

	S:	Oh okay.





	T:	Okay, and a long line of ministers on both sides of my family. And religious people, I have cousins who played for James Cleveland, and all that sort of thing. And they still playing that sort of thing. I have an uncle who, uncle Jake, what is he, eighty-eight? He was a former basketball coach. They just, a year or so ago dedicated a gym to him. He is a legend down in Vero Beach, Florida, that’s south of us down there. Uncles and aunts who really, really—they are educating kids or help me in the church work, missionaries, something. So the role models were there. And I didn’t have a choice. [Laughter] I didn’t have a choice. You see my parents was my people. You step out of line then you got it. They didn’t care whether your mama was this or that, it’s not like today, “You can’t touch my child.” My folks did, on both sides of the family. They did not play. They did not play. So if you were a child in that family, you know you can be touched! [Laughter]

	S:	And how many siblings did you have?



T:  It was five of us, five of us; five kids. Four of us are retired educators, and I have one that still, he is a, his major was criminal justice but he is a code inspector for the city of Melbourne here, yeah.

S:   Did they all come to Macedonia?



	T:	At one time came to Macedonia, as we’ve grown older we kind of spreaded out and then meet up at other churches, or have our own church or whatever it is. But all of use went to Florida Memorial University in St. Augustine with the exception of the final two. They finished down in Miami. My sister and myself and then my other brother he went to St. Augustine but he finished in Miami. My





sister and I finished in St. Augustine so we saw and was involved in a lot of that you had on your video the other day.

	S:	Okay. So we can just end it by why is Macedonia so important to you?



	T:	Well. You know if I didn’t come I would miss it greatly. [Laughter] I mean it’s like home away from home. I know that when I come here I can get some love. I know that when I come here I’m with a body of people who believe and who can inspire you because they have faith which helps you to increase your faith. It’s a place where if you fall down, there’s somebody there who’s gonna rally around you. Case in point, my wife had back surgery couple months ago. Man my house was like Grand Central Station, I mean people come in, not only just seeing how they doing or being nosy, bringing food doing this, and calling on the telephone, and all this sort of thing. They want to do stuff for you and all that. I mean that’s the kind of relationship that this church brings. I mean you talking about hundreds and hundreds of people that belong to this place. I was just looking at the cars, the cars all over, the house full of people sending stuff. Not that we need any money, send a little donation here, send a little donation there, whatever.

Anything, it could be flowers here, cards there, food here; things like that. Mission groups come by the house and they check in on my wife and all like, “What can we do, can we help you clean up? Can we do this for you?” You can’t find that. I know some churches where pastors don’t even go see the people that are sick, that sort of thing. Macedonia here, we still we are a large church with old country ideas. But with a family type attitude that, not only are we going to bring you





flowers we you ill, but we’re going to bring you some soup too to make you get well that sort of thing.

S:  Thank you so much for talking. T:  I hope I didn’t talk you to death. S:  No you didn’t.

T:  I told you I came from a long line of talkers. S:   I enjoyed it so much.

[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by	Jennifer Romero, October 19, 2015 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, June 1, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 24, 2019