AAHP 601; Atkins; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 601 William Atkins Interviewed by Cheyenne Cheng on July 7, 2018

60 minutes | 30 pages



Abstract: In this interview, the University of Florida’s Senior Director of Multicultural Affairs, William Atkins reminisces on his times at UF when he was a young Black student pursuing his undergraduate degree and being the first in his family to be allowed admission to UF. Atkins recalls his experiences going to a predominantly Black high school in Tampa and a legacy of attending such schools in his family. In attending a historically Black high school, the University of Florida was not emphasized in the college admissions process and Atkins learned from his high school teachers about UF’s racist history. Despite that, he recalls attending the Florida Invitational Step Show with a friend attending UF and how this expression of Black identity on campus steered him in a new direction for college applications. Atkins soon began attending UF following his acceptance, an achievement his parents were not able to achieve due to UF being segregated in their time. He recounts his time in different student organizations such as BSU (Black Student Union), pledging Alpha Phi Alpha, and the various efforts these organizations made to educate the Black student body. These experiences with education were formative, and led to Atkins pursuing a PhD in education at the University of Florida following some years in Michigan where he received his master’s. Upon returning to UF, he was working with MFOS (Machen Florida Opportunity Scholarship) and later became the interim Director of Multicultural Affairs after the department experienced a tumultuous time. Atkins details his experiences in his current position as the Senior Director of MCDA, and the demolishing of La Casita and IBC (Institute of Black Culture) buildings in order to create a new, more modern facility and the historical context behind these projects.



Keywords: African American Studies, Tampa, University of Florida, MCDA, IBC, La Casita, MFOS, education, segregation, Florida history, Alpha Phi Alpha



AAHP 601

Interviewee: William Atkins Interviewer: Cheyenne Chang Date: August 7, 2018





	C:	Hi, my name is Cheyenne Chang and if you didn't already know, I’m with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program and I’m speaking with?

	A:	Hi, I’m William Atkins. I’m Senior Director for University Multicultural Affairs and Associate Dean of Students.

	C:	Wow! That’s quite a long title. We’re here just to talk about your life in general but also about the institutes. We’ll start off with some background stuff. When and where were you born?

	A:	I was born in Tampa, Florida in the [19]80s. C:	Are you the only child? Do you have siblings?

	A:	I’m the youngest of five. Two older brothers, four older sisters. C:	What was it like growing up in Tampa in the [19]80s?

	A:	I was born in Tampa but both my parents were in the military so shortly after I was born, we moved to Tucson. I spent most of my adolescent years in Tucson on the air force base. My mom retired and got to Tampa in the mid [19]90s. It was just a regular upbringing. Being a child of a military family definitely came with more structure or focused kind of routine with [Inaudible] life but I really appreciated it and enjoyed it. It definitely taught a lot of discipline, timeliness, structures. That was a pretty big part of my upbringing. Both my parents are very religious and so church was a big part of my upbringing as well.

	C:	So you were a military kid. I was also a military kid. So you lived on the base you mentioned?

	A:	Lived on the base.





	C:	So what was it like going to school? Did you talk to the kids on the military base as well?

	A:	Oh yeah. It was super cool, really chill. I think there were a lot of people from different backgrounds and different races, ethnicities, from different countries. People had different experiences. I had never been outside North America but I know some of my classmates had been overseas and their parents were there as well. For me it was just Tampa and Tucson, but there were a lot of different people, lots of diverse populations even in my elementary school. That was really cool. Then we moved to Tampa. Most of my schools were from fourth grade until eighth grade were predominantly Black, then ninth and tenth grade were mixed students. Then eleventh and twelfth grade I went to Middleton High School in Tampa which is actually the first historically Black high school in Tampa. I think in the [19]70s it was burned down twice, vandalized twice and burned down. They reopened it as a middle school and in 2002, reopened it as a high school. There was a lot of celebration and a lot of alumni came back who were predominantly Black. There was a lot of excitement for that. My class was the first graduating class in the new Middleton High School. We had a rivalry with another high school in Tampa. It was really cool to be able to have that historically Black high school experience. My dad also went to the old Middle and so did my mom, and having that legacy is really cool.

	C:	What is it like growing up and being in these spaces in education where you aren’t the minority? I know a lot of students of color have this experience of going to predominantly White high schools so they tend to cling to people of color and





stay in their group. What is it like being in an environment where you’re all people of color and diverse?

	A:	I feel like growing up on a military base helped me gain skills and being able to be adaptable with different people and make connections with people from different backgrounds. The military base, a lot of people in my classes were different races and ethnicities that would have connected them. Then going to a predominantly Black elementary and middle school and back and forth with the high school, some mixed and some predominantly Black, was a good experience for me. It definitely helped me to adapt to my time at Florida, being able to make connections within my community as a Black man but also outside my community with different organizations or for different jobs.

	C:	Were your parents always military? What did they do in the military? Did they ever pursue something else afterwards?

	A:	Right after high school, both of them went into the military. My dad started in the Army for basically five or six years and then went into the Air Force. My mom enlisted in the Air Force right after high school. As my mom was retiring, she pursued her bachelor’s. My mom has a bachelor’s degree. My dad just retired. Both master sergeants in the Air Force. Afterwards my dad just worked on the military base a little bit and my mom went into healthcare administration, started working for insurance companies. They’re both retired-retired. They’re both relaxing. That’s my family.

	C:	Were they ever involved in the Civil Rights Movement? Did they do anything activist related?





	A:	My dad initially enrolled at either Alabama A&M or Alabama State, both of them are HBCUs. Within his first semester, went into the military. My mom was from South Carolina and she was one of the first in her city or town to desegregate her high school. She was in South Carolina and had to take the bus about thirty or forty-five minutes away and it was the first group of Black students in a predominantly White high school. She talked to me all the time about those experiences and how there were stereotypes in perception she had to fight but she was one of the smartest in her classes. Her peers would come to her after she did really well on a chemistry exam but they were struggling, like, “What did you do? How did you know the answer?” It came naturally. For me, having those stories and having that upbringing helped shaped me for who I am and made sure that I had the knowledge and felt empowered to be able to pursue whatever I wanted to pursue.

	C:	That’s amazing. That kind of segues into my next question. How did you end up going to UF? What schools did you apply to? What was your thinking after graduating high school?

	A:	I looked at Tuskegee University in Alabama. My sister went there, my aunt went there. It’s an HBCU so I wanted to go there. Their mascot and their colors were the same as my high school. I had family ties and connections. My parents wanted me to stay in Tampa and go to USF. I was like, “I’m not staying home. I love y’all but I need to get away.” So I was looking at schools that were close enough that if I needed to come for something, I could just come back but also far enough that I had some distance. If they wanted to come and visit they had to





give me some notice. That’s one of the things that helped me with the college search. Tuskegee is a private institution as well so the money was definitely a factor. Then I did not think about UF until a friend of mine who I worked with in high school who was a student here told me, “You should look into the University of Florida.” She was a third or fourth year student. She was Director of Black History Month here at UF. She told me to come up during the Florida Invitational Step Show so I came up and I had an amazing time as a senior in high school. I was like, “Okay, this is UF? I can get down with this.” It was just one weekend of course. Lots of Black Greeks coming and putting on a big performance. When I was looking at schools, I love my high school dearly but they did not promote the University of Florida as a place Black students should go. They very much so encouraged us to look at USF, also Florida A&M, Bethune-Cookman, Florida Memorial. A lot of teachers also went there so there was that connection. A lot of them even encouraged us to go to Florida State. Everything but UF because of what they heard and knew about UF's racist history and past so they were very much focused on “Don’t go to UF.”

	C:	What did they tell you about UF before you came? What was the racist background and history you mentioned, or was it just this feeling?

	A:	More the feeling. There were some things that were said that I’m not sure were true or not but it definitely had an impact on my thinking coming here. I would say once I got in for that first week I was wearing orange and blue everyday. I’m that guy [Laughter].

	C:	A lanyard and everything?





	A:	Oh, yeah. When I first got admitted, everyone in my high school knew. The other thing, my dad being from Tampa and when he was looking at colleges, he couldn't have come to UF because UF wasn’t admitting Black students. For him to know that I was coming here, it’s almost like me pursuing a dream that he’s always had or something he knew he could not attain legally but his son can go to a school like the University of Florida. In a lot of ways, that's empowering and important for me. It was not a school that people encouraged me to go to but it definitely one that caught my attention and obviously the reputation, academic rigor, connections, and also hearing from my friend who went here and meeting some of her friends during the Step Show weekend, they definitely were influential and helped me see what UF could be.

	C:	What was the deciding factor for you specifically if you remember?



	A:	This is gonna sound really cheesy so bare with me. I was here for that weekend, walking through the bookstore and I saw a t-shirt that said “Simply the best” and had the Gator logo, and I was like, “That’s it.” I bought the shirt and that’s the first shirt I wore when I got in. The rest is history. I think just knowing that I had the opportunity because I got in to come here and also hearing positive experiences from my friends. The shirt was the pivotal moment as cheesy as it sounds. As I came up and walked to campus, I was like, “Okay, I can do this.”

C:  How was it like going from FISS, which was a community of Black Greeks and being prideful of their history, and going from that to the first week of classes? What was that like, the perceptions?





	A:	For the first week of classes, I was really excited. My sister helped me move up for the summer. I came to Preview by myself. Just walking around campus I still felt pretty connected to people because my friend introduced me to some folks. I remember BSU doing programs over the summer, different Greek organizations doing programs and events over the summer. Got involved with my residence hall, learned about student government, of course BSU. Having those connections and being able to explore, I still felt okay my first few weeks here.

	C:	What did you study? What was your major?



	A:	I changed my major a few times. I ended up graduating with a degree in recreation, parks and tourism.

	C:	That I did not expect [Laughter].



	A:	I always wanted to go into education, so for me, coming to UF, one of the first jobs that I had on campus was actually working in the College of Education with the College Reach Out Program, which is a pre-college outreach program that does a lot in Alachua County. They have different tutoring and mentoring sites in Gainesville and outside Gainesville but still in the county. I was really focused on going into education, wanting to be a teacher, then a principal so I would do the tutoring and mentoring actually in Hawthorne and Alachua, Florida at A.L. Mebane Middle School and Hawthorne Middle and High School for my first year. Over the summer, we would bring students on campus for a summer residency. We exposed students to college, “This is what college is like.” Giving them the experience that I didn't really have, and also having them see themselves reflected.





	C:	Like, “This person looks like me.”



	A:	Yeah. I’m also a student here and I can tell you about my experiences. I think those types of programs I stayed true to, even though I changed my major a few times. Recreation, parks, and tourism had some event management specialization and with my involvement on campus it made a lot of sense to just get out of here with the degree. I ended up pursuing a master’s in education, higher education at a different institution, and now I’m working on my PhD in education as well.

	C:	You mentioned other involvement stuff. Were you involved with BSU? IBC? What was it like on campus in terms of your communities?

	A:	I was also that typically over-involved student who I saw something, and “Oh this would be cool.” “Look into this.” “Okay, I’ll apply.” Then I’d apply and get picked for it, and “Really me? What do I have to offer?” My first involvement on campus was in my residence hall, the Residence Hall Association. My fall semester, I had a job with the College Reach Out Program and I got involved with Student Government as a Senator.

	C:	Oh, you were a senator for your residence hall. What was your hall? A:	Lakeside.

	C:	Oh, wow.



	A:	If I could do it all over again, I might have picked a different hall but Lakeside was cool for the moment. The rest of fall semester I was a guide and Preview staffer and in the spring, I ran for Mr. BSU and won. BSU was my home even as a first





year student. Cicerones, that happened. I had a lot, way too much going on my first year. I also joined my fraternity.

	C:	Oh my goodness! A:	[Laughter]

	C:	I don’t know what to ask you about which one. For me what’s most important is crossing with Alpha Phi Alpha. What was your mentality in that? Was that something your parents promoted in terms of Black Greek life, or was that something your friend showed you? What brought you to Alpha Phi Alpha?

	A:	A lot of my teachers and administrators from high school were members of National PanHellenic Council Organizations so I had lots of influence from high school. I also participated in a high school program like go to high school, go to college type program for Alpha Phi Alpha. I knew about [Inaudible] organizations and the fraternities prior to coming and then also came for FISS weekend. Then my supervisor for the College Reach Out Program, I didn’t know he was an Alpha but he was also an Alpha. Actually one of the most influential mentors I’ve had, stayed connected with [Inaudible] for them. Him and his wife two weekends ago, I was in their wedding, having those connections and seeing the brotherhood even before being part of it was really powerful. I knew about it and ended up joining spring semester once I got here.

	C:	What’s it like being a brother? What did you do? Did you do any activism in your chapter? What was the environment like? I mentioned something happened with a school shooting or shooting of a Black person and you mentioned wanting to do something about it.





	A:	Jena Six. The situation that happened with the Jena Six, we were able to lead educational opportunities for the community. I think it was one of those in the movement hot topic conversations but also needed to be addressed. I was like, “We’re gonna do something.” I took the lead in creating a forum. I believe we had Patricia Hilliard-Nunn as one of the panelists and we also did other forums with the fraternity. We would bring in different faculty to talk with students. To me being able to have that platform and raise awareness around different social issues on campus and off campus was really powerful. Having the fraternity whose mission and purpose lends to that, that was meaningful for me. My involvement with the organization, I was on the executive board, participated in step shows, and stroll outs, all that.

	C:	I have not seen you stroll.



	A:	You will not see me stroll [Laughter]. You might. To me it was a life changing experience. I don’t use the phrase “life changing” often but it really did change my life.

	C:	How did the UF community take your activism? What was the environment like for people of color and when things happened what was it like?

	A:	Directly connected to my experience, one of my favorite quotes by Nelson Mandela, “Education is one of the most powerful weapons you can use to change the world.” To me, that’s my approach to raising awareness around things and engaging with different people, using education as a tool. Not formal education like you gotta go to high school and college and get all these degrees, but this idea of lifelong learning as part of the education process. To me, any way





I can continue to learn and grow and help others learn and grow, that’s my contribution to my progress and social change. My experience was heavily grounded in education as a means to raise awareness and engage people around change. Another big thing that means a lot to me is being involved in civic and political processes. Not only registering to vote and going in regularly and of course, the national elections, but city, state, local elections. Those matter so heavily and making sure that my peers knew about what was going on. It’s actually one of my fraternity’s national programs as well, a vote less people is a hopeless people, so we’ve been committed to voter and civic engagement for a while. It’s not only important to be a regular voter but an informed voter and know who you’re voting for, what you’re voting for. We do forums to help raise awareness about what’s going on with different elections and political figures. I can go on and on.

	C:	You were that student [Laughter]. A:	I was that student.

	C:	It’s okay, I’m an ambassador for API which does the same thing but for the API community so I totally get it. What was it like your time in undergrad with the two houses? What was the environment like? You mentioned BSU meetings were on the second and they were always full. What was the environment of the houses?

	A:	As a first year student here, we knew about the history of the institutes and also knew about the history of Black UF through programs like the PAACT program, Pledging to Advance Academic Capacity Together. That brought in incoming first year students and we had faculty, staff, mentors helping us get adjusted to UF. I





remember Dean Shaw, he was in Liberal Arts & Sciences, and him coming into the room in Carleton Auditorium where we had our welcome kick-off meeting. He gave a history of Black UF and said whenever you see a Black person on campus, you speak. Whoever they are, whether it’s faculty, staff. You always speak to people. If you can’t speak, you give the head nod, something to acknowledge people who look like you on campus because it’s not often you’re gonna see people who look like you. We can’t silence each other, we have to make sure we acknowledge our existence. I remember stories like that. I remember hearing about Black Thursday and hearing about protests and demonstrations. When I was a first year student, BSU would have meetings in the IBC. We didn't know anyone, we were just like, “Okay this is where we’re going for these meetings.” If you got there late, you’d be standing or in the hallway or in the stairway around the corner. You had to be there because that’s where family and community happened. That’s where you knew about what was going on on campus. I remember the BSU President when I was a first year student. I was actually just with her when in D.C. [Inaudible]. Even just those lifelong connections, we still have them. It was jam packed. We were on the second floor and the space was limited. Sometimes the AC didn't work, you just toughed it out and kept it moving. Those memories, right? After the meeting we just hung out downstairs or upstairs, just seeing how everyone’s week was going and how classes were going. Just having that community meant the world especially as a first year student. Similar things were happening with La Casita. I had some friends and they would invite me for different events over there. I never





really felt like I couldn't go over there. Being a Black student on campus, the IBC was a hub for community.

	C:	Were you there often? Was that the space where you would go? What does the IBC and La Casita mean to you?

	A:	I would go there a couple times a week, either for student organization meetings or if I’m on that side of campus, just hanging out in between classes. My fraternity would often be there on the weekend, host different forums, or movie nights, anything with food you could always go to the IBC and have those spaces available. Because it was a house, it felt like home and family. It had some perks and usable programming space. We would use it as frequently as we could but I was never ambassador, but was a regular visitor for the IBC.

	C:	Segueing from undergrad, what was your thinking in going into a master’s in higher education? What was it like going to a different university and the environment there?

	A:	I always knew I wanted to get into education and I initially wanted to be a high school principal but after benign exposed to different programs on campus, particularly the College Reach Out Program and the PAACT program, being able to be more hands on and involved with that, I can still have an impact on the K- 12 pipeline with students but I can be on a college campus. I talked to some folks, they explained different education programs and ways you could get funded. I learned more about student affairs and higher education and I looked at schools intentionally that were not in Florida. I wanted to be out of the heat and out of the South, so I only looked at schools in the Midwest and the Northeast. I





ended up going to the University of Michigan for a master’s in higher education immediately after undergrad. I ended up staying there to work for a few years, then was in Ohio briefly. Then I came back to UF four years ago.

	C:	What was the environment like there for people of color, specifically for you in that environment in graduate school, but also as a working adult? What is it like compared to UF? What brought you back to UF?

	A:	At Michigan, I did see a lot of similarities in the student culture and in history of student experiences. Just like we had Black Thursday, they had the Black Power movement actually on campus. They had an IBC La Casita type facility, the Trotter Multicultural Center, which is with campus but a little set away from campus. They also had an MCA type office, they called it Multiethnic Student Affairs. The student population, the ways in which students experienced Michigan was similar to Florida. I think Michigan students probably spent more time engaging around global issues happening and raising awareness around things happening not just in the US but across the world. That was cool to see students really passionate and engaged beyond their scope. It also had challenges with campus climate, enrollment for Black students and historically underserved students. Also making some strides in various areas around diversity, equity, and inclusion. I found a lot of similarities. I had a great experience at Michigan as well. It was different because I was a grad student.

There’s a different cope and capacity. I really enjoyed it, made some great connections there, too. Michigan, some similarities to UF. I think being the flagship, public state institution, you’re gonna find some things in common.





	C:	What brought you back to UF for your PhD?



	A:		I came back in 2014 initially to work with the Machen Florida Opportunity Scholarship Program, a scholarship and program for students who are the first in their families to go to college. That led me back to my first love around education. Before I worked with student activities, sorority and fraternity life, and that gave me good experiences but I always stayed true to being a part of programs where initiatives for historically underserved students and looking at programs that address those systemic barriers to access for higher education, which I think the MFOS program does a fine job of. That’s why I came back but then I also knew I wanted to pursue a PhD and work at the institution that would help the funding, so going to school part time and working full time. That’s how I got here.

	C:	How did you go from MFOS to MCDA?



	A:	I was with MFOS from August of 2014 until October of 2016. I never had any intention on going to diversity affairs or working in [Inaudible]. Just to be completely honest and transparent, there was a lot going on around that time, internally and externally, with the department. I knew some of the challenges and struggles happening and I was very content with MFOS, loved the program, loved the scholars, loved the work we were doing. I had a little normalcy with the schedule so I could leave at a reasonable time and work on my school stuff and take classes. Coming over to MCDA, was a shock to everyone, myself included. It’s been a really meaningful, rewarding, challenging, developmental, educational experience for me too. I’m learning a lot about myself and about the functional area of multiculturalism, diversity, equity, inclusion type of work, particularly in





higher education and especially in today’s political climate. I came over October 2016. November 2016 was the election and that changed everything. Even doing this work in the era of the forty-fifth President, that has been really different, unique, and challenging.

	C:	What was MCDA like before? You had mentioned that there are some things going on internally. What was it like jumping into that as a director?

	A:	It was not fun, seeing what was happening and knowing what the department should be and could be doing for students and the campus, but then to also recognize those challenges from the outside. The fact that I knew all this stuff and I wasn't even over here, I couldn't imagine what was going on internally. I think there were some challenges with the direction the department should be going and what the mission was, what the expectation was. I will say that MCDA was looked at as a catch-all for the entire campus. When I came over, faculty, staff from different units, colleges, departments, they would ask MCDA to do workshops, presentations, and trainings, and that took us away from serving students. We were within the division of Student Affairs so while we know that if we can help influence change in the classroom, that does by default influence a student’s experience, we need to spend our time and attention on the staffing that we have. We had one full-time person for different identity based areas and different programs. We can't do it for an entire campus of 50,000 students and sixteen colleges, and who knows how many offices and units. While we would love to do that, we just don’t have the capacity. Coming in and having to have those hard conversations and saying in an ideal world we would love to, but we





cant right now, was challenging and helped us in the long run. Being able to give the department some direction was needed. I came in October 2016 as interim director and had to go through the national search process and was selected as the permanent director in April 2017. During that process we had some staff turnover, we had some challenges with the perception of the department and what was going on internally and externally but after we rehired, or hired new staff and felt a little more situated, we reworked our mission, values, approach. I looked at MCDA as a new department, not without its challenges or imperfections. Organizational change takes time and that’s what I’ve been working on. That’s what I inherited. The biggest challenge that I inherited was an organization that didn't have direction.

	C:	How did you do that? What were the talks with the predecessor like? What was it like transferring this mission statement from serving everyone as a catch-all to specifically working with students and their lives?

	A:	I didn't have the chance to have any transition with the person before. I would also venture to say my onboarding was tough. Being able to just use the knowledge, skills, and experiences I had; taking some of the good from the previous departments I had worked for; learning from some of the challenges I had at previous departments I worked for not here at UF but other places; I was focused on giving us a new and fresh feel and spirit. It took time though. Remind me of the question one more time.





	C:	You didn't have much help from your predecessors on your first day but how has the mission statement changed from overall to students? How was the backlash or support you got in that transition?

	A:	The mission statement before set us up to do something we really aren't capable of, or should be doing. Our new mission statement focuses on us being an educational unit so looking at transformative opportunities for our students. We include language around, “We advocate. We empower. We celebrate.” All these things that should fall under what MCDA should be doing. We can't mobilize. I think people think we should be mobilizing the campus and pushing in certain ways that actually may jeopardize. With MCDA we refocused on what we actually can do and what we have capacity to do. Others on campus have more capacity to mobilize like tenured faculty. I’m not a tenured faculty member, I’m at-will. I think in a lot of ways, what I can do is influence, empower, educate, and celebrate what’s happening on campus, advocate in certain spaces. The mission before really positioned us to do mobilizing which is something we actually can't do.

	C:	How do you work that idea of you can’t mobilize but student expectations are you should flagship this, or have these programs but then administration is like, “No, you can’t do this.” How do you balance those expectations from both sides?

	A:	I don’t think I get as much of the resistance or pushback from administration. I’m administration technically. To me it’s about remembering what our mission calls us to do. Our mission is about, again, providing transformative educational experiences, advocating, celebrating, empowering campus to be inclusive. I think





as long as we go back to our North Star, our mission, that helps us manage our expectations, scope, and boundaries. Students are definitely entitled to have the opinion that they have about MCDA and about our work. What we have to continue to do is manage those expectations, temper the expectations of what we can and can’t do. There needs to be a distinction around faculty and staff scope and limitations. I’m not faculty. There are faculty who can go out and be very vocal. They can post things on social media or be on a megaphone talking about things. I appreciate what they bring because what they’re doing is part of their education and mission of the institution. I don’t have that luxury or that capacity to do that. Part of what we have to continue to do is help the campus understand what we can and can't do. When students see their faculty member, they’re looking at that person as a knowledge counting expert because they are. We are also very knowledgeable and have a lot of content in our area of the field but we don't have the same protections.

	C:	Applying that to the houses, how has that been for you? When you first came as the interim, what was the environment like for the houses and how has it gone on? What is your narrative of it?

	A:	I came in as plans were already in place for the institutes. The learning that happened for me was trial by fire in a lot of ways. I came in and the architecture firm had already been set up, the project manager for UF Design Planning and Construction were already selected. There were already conversations happening with MCDA staff. I believe there were conversations happening with students. I don’t know if it was happening or not. I came in and was trying to





manage some of the issues happening internally. Also this project was going on, and given the interim capacity, I didn’t know if I was gonna be here beyond so I wasn’t as connected, or didn’t have as much access to the conversations happening with the institutes. I was more focused on the MCDA staff [Inaudible]. Then, when I became the permanent director, now this is in my portfolio and at that point, it was too late. At that point, resigns had already been made public and there were students who were not pleased with the way things were going. My first week as the permanent director, I did want to look at opportunities to engage with more students and alumni. We did have an advisory board and my experience with that, the goal was to get more input and engage with people who are very passionate about the institutes, and there were some challenges with that too. One of the biggest challenges was it was looked at as a tool of appeasement for lack of a better term. Students felt like they didn't have a voice or a say. It was just for the optics, I’ll be pretty transparent with you about that. In fact, students did have a very big say and rightfully they felt right in their actions to push back on the plans that were in place. They drew from some of the narratives of the Black Action Movement on campus and some of those stories like direction action, protesting, this is how we’re gonna get things accomplished. I would like to believe that we could've had the same outcome through conversations but I do know after talking with some of the students after last summer’s demonstration, they didn't feel like they had that option. After talking with them, it made sense to me. Right now we definitely have been focused on restructuring the process. Last summer we restarted the design process for the





institutes. We haven't gotten any resistance or pushback. We’ve been very transparent about what’s going on and I think that is after I fully became the owner of the project. Prior to last summer, on paper, I was technically not the owner. Now there’s an OAC group and I’m listed on the paperwork for UF as the owner of the project. It’s been critical to get as much input from students and alumni to make sure we’re getting the information out in a timely manner. We have a fully dedicated website that outlines every meeting, meeting minutes, audio recordings, PowerPoint presentations. We use social media to get the word out around when opportunities for input are. Every meeting is public.

There’s nothing to hide with the process. We found some really great returns on that. The alumni feel very engaged and students feel a lot more engaged and positive behind the project. Overtime we had to redirect the process but as we are approaching some groundbreaking, that’s when people are feeling excitement about the institutes project knowing that it does take about a year.

From completely restarting, getting all the designs, making sure that we hear what people are saying, reflecting that back, making changes, making up dates, is this color right, is this design right, do you want the structure of this room to look this. If someone says no, then there's no consensus. The architects will go back and redesign and rework things. Architects have been amazing with the process and project. The project manager from Design, Planning, and Construction, that person was new as of last year too. Just with a brand new feel and hope in the institutes project. It’s been much more positive. We reached out to Eddie Daniels, who’s the President of the Association of Black Faculty and





Staff, who’s a former Director of the Reitz Union and was involved with the Reitz Union construction process. He is now the co-chair of the project along with the students. We have Amy as the co-chair of the project. We always have a student as the co-chair of the project. That’s been very intentional and purposeful. I’m rambling a little bit so I’m sorry for going off into a different direction. Where we are now compared to before, I confidently feel like it’s a different experience.

	C:	It feels like it too. It feels like students are definitely being heard and that’s why there’s not as much backlash. Did you expect the march that happened in the summer? I know there was a virtual thing with the architects and I remember Chris was there and something happened, then students mobilized and they had the thing where they walked into the meeting. What was that experience like and did you expect it?

	A:	Prior to the students walking into the meeting, there were other things happening on campus like a teach-in. I attended the teach-in to hear what was going on and what was being said. I did hear that they were going to do something during the meeting and so we had some chairs in the back made available. We had a [Inaudible] and a few other staff on site to help manage. We have a campus demonstration safety team so if anything happens, we want to make sure students know what they can do and make sure they’re not doing anything to cause harm to themselves or to the campus or anyone else involved. We had some members of that demonstration team on site too. I thought something would happen and when it did happen, we went with it and made sure students felt heard. The meeting went about two and a half hours.





	C:	It went quite some time. I remember there was this city commissioner there and Mary King left. What was the environment? Did you think the protest was productive? Do you feel like students really made it a point of saying they weren't heard and now you have to pay attention to us? What do you think the outcomes of the protest were?

	A:	I think the outcomes of the protest were to certainly be heard, make sure that students had their opinions and thoughts recognized. I also know that there were some students who we had conversations with who knew why the students were moving in that direction but also had different ideas or approaches. Where I sit, I have to manage both, and. I can’t pick a side one or the other. I had students who wanted to build separate institutes, who saw the design from before and it made sense to them. Same for alumni. Some alumni wanted it separate so I’m trying to play facilitator.

	C:	Right because you’re not paid for your opinions.



	A:	Correct. I think there were some dynamics in the room that were not publicized that should have been publicized. I don't know if I can go into much detail about that, but the fact that the few staff of color who were committed to students were being attacked and there were other factors at play beyond our control, that wasn't’ addressed in the administration. It was an opportunity for learning in that regard.

	C:	Do you think after that meeting, people finally understood what powers you had and what powers you don't and come to terms?





	A:	I hope so, but you never know. I think people recognized where I was in the entire process but either way, I was still the bad guy or the [Inaudible].

	C:	The one not to be trusted?



	A:	The one not to be trusted, the white-washed and all that kind of stuff. I’ve been called all that, it didn't really faze me. I do think that for someone who cares about our students and their experiences, it wasn’t the best feeling.

	C:	On the other side, what was it like working with SAS? What does student involvement have in terms of houses and power? Were they overseeing it? Did they make any comments when the protests were happening?

	A:	Student Activities had a couple of staff there just because of the facilities management piece but they don’t have any involvement or say in the institutes process.

	C:	So it’s just the architects and the people on board?



	A:	Yes. Owner, architect, construction company, the students, alumni. Those are the key figures in the conversation.

	C:	One more event happened that I remember was impactful. I remember being at the ambassador training summit in the fall and that was also the day that houses were demolished. I remember Gabe Laura came in and we just heard that La Casita was demolished. We didn't know about this. What happened to it in your eyes? I know people that were saying that MCDA wasn’t notified that the houses would be demolished that day because there was supposed to be a Livestream day. What happened from your point of view?





	A:	We weren't aware of the exact date. We knew it was going to happen ideally before the beginning of the fall. It was kind of new for us too, unfortunately. That’s kind of how some construction processes happen so after that, we were very direct and intentional about making sure people knew this is not just any ordinary construction process. There’s deep historical significance behind every action with this process. We made sure we communicated the need to communicate with various stakeholders, students, alumni, and the like, and we haven't had that problem since. It was an unfortunate situation but since then we’ve been really purposeful about over-communicating about where we are in the process.

	C:	What are your new hopes for the houses? Do you know when they’re gonna be finished building? They haven't started building.

	A:	I can tell you 2019 but I can’t tell you when in 2019. Once we break ground, hopefully sooner than later, it’s about an eleven to twelve month process. This is something I heard from Dr. Betty Stewart-Fullwood who I told you about before, she was actually in the room during the student demonstration last summer and again, we want to talk about problematizing things, there were actions taken and things said to her that probably just shouldn’t have been. I’ll be upfront about that. I’m very disappointed, it was very upsetting. Knowing her demeanor and how graceful and strong she is, she withdrew from UF on Black Thursday and she re-enrolled with her bachelor’s, master’s, PhD, was UF’s longest standing BSU advisor for thirty-three years, really a staple in the Black UF experience.

She told me at the end of the day, you could have a physical house and if you





don't have the feel of home, it’s just a structure. Or you can have a really nice facility, high-tech, more modern and if the people there make you feel like home, it’s gonna be home. With the new institutes, I was looking at some of the pictures of when I was a student and using the spaces, just that feeling of community, family, education, solidarity, excitement, advocacy, those are the things I knew I would like to see in the institutes moving forward.

	C:	Do you feel like since the houses aren't there and since the election in November, campus has been a little more polarizing? Do you feel like not having those houses has affected the campus? I know it used to be a place to mobilize and organize. How do you feel like the houses not being there impacted the social climate?

	A:	There is definitely avoid on campus without the institutes. I think that's felt from lots of different folks: students of course, alumni definitely, MCDA absolutely. For us to not have those kinds of staples, beacons, and anchors for the community, we’ve definitely felt that. It’s something that we’re looking forward to having.

We’ve been innovative with the programs we’ve been able to bring back, like the PAACT program for example and LEAP having things to help build community with our incoming students. Having those programs on campus has helped a little bit but there’s still that void on campus and we look forward to being able to help our students recognize our history through the institutes. It’s unfortunate that some students won’t have as much time with them as others but we’re gonna make the most of that time once they’re here.





	C:	I remember in my freshman year the houses were still there but I never got the opportunity to go in before they were demolished so I’m one of those students who won’t have either, but it's okay. Let me see if I have other questions that I had. How has the climate changed from being an undergrad at UF to being a staff member here?

	A:	The climate has changed in a couple of ways, particularly with the students. It's a different generation. When I was here, millennials were the students on campus and now millennials are no longer students. It’s Generation Z. It’s a different lived experience that students in this generation have, compared to my generation and the one before me. I think those transformations will always be there. That’s the nature of education. While staff have been here for a while, the student population will for the most part be eighteen through twenty-two, and some non- traditional students as well which is something else we are needing to spend more time attending to. The population and the makeup is a lot different than it was generations ago. The emergence and the permanence of social media and how information is communicated, disseminated, that definitely has changed the climate, not bad or good, it’s just different. I talk with a lot of alumni who were at UF from around the time I was here, and I’m like, “Were things this all over the place when we were here?” I think for us there were situations that happened and we knew we were students of color at a predominantly White institution.

Navigating certain spaces came with some challenges and the need to be able to adapt and code switch in a way, but everyone is like, “What is going on now?” If something happened when we were notes, we would’ve looked at that like it’s not





good and we expect more from our university and this is not normal. Today there are some things that are happening on a much more frequent basis of racism and discrimination, bias, specifically towards minoritized students. That's becoming normal and to me, that is disappointing and a reality we are grappling with on a daily, hourly basis.

	C:	How does MCDA react things to like Richard Spencer having — what about the halls that the sign got removed, all these racist — ?

	A:	Walker Hall.



	C:	And all these acts of racism that are occurring on campus. What is MCDA’s role in the aftermath?

	A:	A while ago, MCDA was looked at as the go-to for every incident, having to respond, educate, and be on the frontlines so to speak. Now, we have to remember what we can and can't manage, what we do and don't have capacity for. We do have some influence but if a student organization does something racist, I actually cannot kick a student organization off campus. As deplorable as something may be, I have to remember what my scope and expectations are along with the department. I think before the people thought, well actually they should be holding people accountable. There’s a way we can do that, but there are some things that are beyond our control. What we can do is influence in the areas that we have influence, and that’s heavily in education. Last year, right around the time of Richard Spencer, we did do a lot around antiracism education. We had events for that. We tried bringing students together to have space to process things, Together UF. Also if students want to mobilize through





demonstrations, or protests, we helped students think about the history and educate them on the history of different social movements so that they’re well- informed and prepared for what could be outcomes or consequences. Education is that big world that we do have influence over and can utilize. When things do happen, we do our best to be involved with the conversations. Relationships and partnerships we’ve built on campus help us with that. We’ve had to re-temper expectations around what we can do.

C:  For my final question, what are your hopes for the MCDA future? Your current mission goal is to educate and advocate. Where do you hope MCDA can be in the future in terms of that?

	A:	I would love for MCDA to be a model for how we empower, support, advocate for, celebrate, bring communities together across higher education - not for any sort of recognition, but because we’re serving our students so well. I want that to permeate across higher education so people are looking at us, thinking about programs like Gatorship, our social justice retreat weekend. We’ve had colleges and universities reach out to us to learn how we do those things because they want to do that for their students. That lasting impact, that positive visible change, that's what I want us to focus on and be, not only for the university but for higher education.

	C:	Is there anything else that I happened to touch upon that you want to talk about?



	A:	I have this book. This is not a plug, I get no money from it. This is actually a book that Dr. Betty Stewart-Fullwood and Dr. McCarthy wrote about the history of African-Americans at UF. I know there have been a lot of documented interviews





through the oral history program and there’s the Gator Tales through the Fine Arts. Our history is so rich and it’s documented. I hope that we continue to remember that, learn from it, and celebrate it. I keep this on my bookshelf and look through it frequently just to remind myself of the legacy that was left and be sure to take care of it moving forward.

	C:	I think this concludes the interview. A:	Thank you.

[End of interview]



	Transcribed by:	Heather Halak



	Audit-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, February 16, 2021 Final-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, February 26, 2021