AAHP 711;McKinney; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 711 Henry McKinney Jr. 8-4-2019 Interviewed by Aanchel Shah and Megan Pitt 52 minutes | 22 pages



Abstract: In this interview, University of Florida students Aanchel Shah and Megan Pitt sit down with Black veteran Henry McKinney at the Veterans of Foreign Wars chapter in Monticello, Florida. McKinney was born in Monticello, Florida on October 29th, 1946 as one of eight children. He attended Howard Academy High School, graduating in 1964. He remembers spending his childhood summers working in the fields, harvesting pecans and cotton in addition to working his family’s small farm. In June of 1964, McKinney moved to Detroit, Michigan, looking for better opportunities. By December in Detroit, McKinney joined the Army, hoping to follow in the footsteps of his father, a World War II veteran. McKinney spent twenty-seven years in the Army, starting with his basic and advanced training in Fort Knox, Kentucky. Then, McKinney went to Fort Benning, Georgia for airborne infantry training. After his training, McKinney joined the 173rd Airborne and was stationed in Okinawa, Japan before arriving in Vietnam in 1965. After his tour of duty, he returned to Fort Campbell, Kentucky, where he noticed intense discrimination against returning Black troops. In spite of the discrimination, McKinney earned the rank of E-5 while stationed at Fort Campbell. McKinney exited the service in December 1967 but re-enlisted a year later and was stationed in Fort Howard, Maryland to study military intelligence. From Maryland, McKinney was sent to Detroit to manage the riots and protests brought on by the Civil Rights Movement and the assassination of Martin Luther King Junior. However, the use of military power on civilians proved controversial and armed forces were withdrawn from domestic use on protestors. Next, he travelled to Thailand where he remained for two years before returning to aid the race relations crisis in Detroit. As the interview concludes, McKinney reflects on his time in the military, positing that his time in the service taught him self-reliance and perseverance.





Keywords: [Monticello, Florida, veteran, military, VFW, airborne infantry, civil rights, protest, Detroit, Michigan]



AAHP 711

Interviewee: Henry McKinney Jr. Interviewer: Aanchel Shah, Megan Pitt Date: August 4, 2019



	S:	Hello so my name is Aanchel Shah with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program, today is August 4th, 2019 and I’m interviewing-

	M:	Henry McKinney.



	S:	Henry McKinney at the veteran’s for foreign affairs office in Jackson County. M:	By Monticello, Florida.

	S:	By Monticello, Florida.



	P:	And I’m Megan Pitt, also interviewing. Could you tell us your full name and spell it please?

	M:	My name is Henry R. McKinney, that’s M-C-K-I-N-N-E-Y and that’s a junior because my father used to be in the military also.

	P:	Okay and when and where were you born?



	M:	I was born in Monticello, Florida in October the 28th, 1946.



	S:	Okay could you tell us a little bit about your growing up and how you were raised?

	M:	Oh boy, I grew up right here in Montiello, Florida on the other side of town there.



We were you know a family of eight siblings and I went Howard Academy Elementary School and continued to Howard Academy High School. I graduated 1964 and growing up we had to work during the summer and we had to- I used to pick up pecans and things like that during the winter to- for Christmas type gifts and we picked pecans, picked cotton. We had a small time farm. We raised hogs, cotton, peanuts, and other farm items. After school we had to work and before school I used to deliver newspapers in high school. Used to get up at four





o clock in the morning and run the paper out and then go back home and go to school and I graduated, as I mentioned in 1964. Then I went to Detroit, Michigan almost immediately because I didn’t see any future here in Monticello so I went there and started working then I later joined the Army.

	S:	How were the race relations growing up in Monticello when you were younger? M:	Well we were completely separate during my era. The schools were segregated,

matter of fact they integrated the schools after I left- 1964 I believe they started integration in [19]65-[19]66 and my sisters if they were here they could tell you about the integration because they had some issues and matter of fact I enjoy listening to how they had to weather the storm but we were completely separated and so I personally didn’t witness much tension because we weren’t together.

You know we got hand me down books and we just had struggled to advance.



	P:	What would you say the reason is you didn’t see a future in Monticello for yourself?

	M:	Well no industries were here, I think some apron factory or something came after I left Monticello. Nothing but farm and you just had to leave to get employment, advance. We didn’t have- since I was second in the family we didn’t have enough finances for me to go to school and maybe I wasn’t smart enough to advance either so I decided to leave and go and perhaps get a job someplace else and try to help support the family?

	S:	How were things in Detroit did you experience [inaudible at 04:51] segregation in Detroit or no?





	M:	Well under current segregation you didn’t have separate housing well I have to retract. Detroit was just as segregated as any other place. There were places where Blacks lived and there were places where White- and they began to merge and I think they used to call it, I can’t recall, block busting where they would move. [Inaudible at 5:36] would intentionally take a Black family and settle in the middle of a White area and all- White flight began. Because when I went to Detroit there were some beautiful areas I mean oh Lord I wish I could live here and then twenty years later I mean those houses were abandoned. Ghetto really, ghetto. I go and [inaudible at 6:05] now and revisit some of the places and you wouldn’t even recognize it. Few times I’ve gone back to Detroit and I lived there quite some time, I can’t even recognize places. Matter of fact, I used to own a home and it’s no longer there, there’s mega churches where I used call home.

So Detroit just went downhill after that and you know the oil industry left town and stuff. I can recall I used to drive in Detroit from Toledo and when you got closer to Detroit you couldn’t breathe you and now shoot there’s no factories. There’s none, none whatsoever.

	S:	How long were you in Detroit before you ended up joining the military?



	M:	Not very long I think I ended up in Detroit- graduated from high school probably in June and I was in Detroit in June and I was in the Army in December of the same year. I was a soldier, I joined the Army in 18 December 1964.

	P:	Did you have an affinity towards a specific branch of the Army or? M:	I wanted to be in the Army, yes.

	P:	Is there a reason?





	M:	Back in the [19]60s when the Cuban crisis came through, it was down south there, soldiers used to come through there. Tons and tons of vehicles used to be traveling down off 90 and I saw all those Army vehicles, I said man I want to be a soldier and so first opportunity that I had I joined the Army.

	P:	So you had a positive view of the Army growing up? M:	Yes, yes.

	P:	What did your family think?



	M:	My father had been in the military for a very short period of time during War World II and he didn’t think very highly of it but the rest of the family had no problems. I have three additional brothers who joined the service after I did- four brothers. Therefore five of us were military and they followed me into the service. Two of them became the highest ranking enlisted soldiers in the Army for a period of time. Both of them- one- I mean both became Sergeant Majors of the Army at some point.

	P:	What was your father’s reason for disliking?



	M:	It was very segregated back then you know and Blacks were only used- labor type units and he really didn’t like the service and he made a concerted effort I believe to exit the service as soon as he could.

	S:	How long were you in the Army for?



	M:	I spent approximately twenty-seven years total.



	S:	So were- I guess a timeline of when- what years and then what you did those years?





	M:	Okay I went in December [19]64and sort of kind of delayed entry type thing cause I joined and then I went immediately on leave so I really got behind the power curve then. I’ll never make that mistake again because I joined and used up fifteen days of leave immediately before I earned them so I always behind the curve tryna earn enough leave to go on vacation later. But I joined and went to basic training in Fort Knox, Kentucky and I went to advanced training in Fort Knox, Kentucky and then I went on to airborne school in Fort Benny, Georgia and immediately from Fort Benny I went to the 173rd airborne which at that point in time was stationed in Okinawa but by the time I joined- I went over a ship, a trip ship so by the time I got to Okinawa, the 173rd was sent to Vietnam. So when I joined instead of being stationed in paradise, I was sent to Vietnam temporarily, duty at that point in time because the Army hadn’t- we weren’t ion Vietnam as a permanent force but we were the initial ground forces in [19]64. So I stayed there for a year in [19]64, [19]65 in 173rd [inaudible at 11:27] area of the country and I rotated out to Fort Campbell, Kentucky and at that point in time Fort Campbell I mean was still kind of integrated and soldiers who were in Vietnam earn rank real fast I think and then when I got to Kentucky a lot of soldiers were being court marshalled and reduced a lot of them came back- went over Vietnam as privates and came back as E-5s and E-6s but in Fort Campbell, the Black soldiers in particular were getting harassed and reduced in rank quite rapidly for minor infractions. So I didn’t personally experience that reduction type harassment, matter of fact I advanced but I worked hard and I had a few allies in the headquarters type thing and I was able to weather the storm but I’ll give you one





thing in particular, at that point in time I was in the food service and you have to go before the promotion board to advance and a person who worked in the [inaudible at 13:06] knew that I was supposed to go before a promotion board that Friday morning but no one would advise me that I was supposed to go before a promotion board. Now to go before a promotion board you’re supposed to be strack your uniform laid out, everything spit side. So this ally says Sergeant McKinney, special McKinney you’re going before a promotion board in the morning, they don’t want you to know so you can fail so make certain your strack so next day sure enough I saw my lieutenant sergeant come to me, says hey you’re supposed to be promotion board right now go and get in uniform and head over that way. So when I walked in there I was strack you know I had advance warning so I did do well on the promotion board then I advanced to specialist 5, E-5 at that point in time. So, as I said, I advanced when the others were being getting reduced.

	P:	Was the reason for not telling people in advance racially motivated or?



	M:	I would think so because they were reducing a lot of the other people I knew for minor infractions. For example, in Fort Campbell- I’m sorry- yes Fort Campbell, Kentucky there’s a highway that runs right adjacent to the base and at that point in time you had to have a pass to leave the base. Well people would go across the street to get their laundry had or what have you and just that minor infraction would get them reduced because someone will be sitting there spying and then say oh I saw Staff Sergeant Smith go across the street and he left the post without official authorization therefore they reduce him. That was a kangaroo





type situation so myself and a lot of others decided to go back to Vietnam, I said hell it was better in Vietnam than here so I got on a list and went back to Vietnam.

	P:	Oh yeah can you explain the differences between being treated in the U.S. versus Vietnam, some of them?

	M:	Well in Vietnam you were just in terrible shape anyway so everybody was in the same shape so I think just a little bit closer bond you know even though minorities of groups may have been out suffering in the field everyone was suffering at a similar rate and you pull together more, you didn’t want people pissed off at you out in the field out there. But it did break down later if you look at the history of Vietnam and the strife in the military at that point in time. There were a lot fraggings even then the senior NCOs and officers used to get killed by their own soldiers you know they’d throw a grenade in someone’s tent at night and got rid of them. So there was a lot of racial strife in Vietnam too don’t get me wrong and a lot a lot. I think the longer it went, the worse it got. I had to be in the front end so we were much tighter but it fell apart at some point in time.

	S:	Did you travel a lot during this time and if so, I ask what did- how were you treated in the other countries that you went to in terms of race?

	M:	I didn’t back in the period we are right now, I didn’t travel. I didn’t go to R and R, just to Vietnam and then back to the states. Personally I didn’t witness the same- I’ve heard many soldiers say they got spit on, ostracized and all that stuff when they came back. I really personally didn’t witness that.





	S:	Was it- the soldiers you spoke to was it all soldiers or the Black soldiers that got spit on?

	M:	No both, both, both, no discrimination there. Matter of fact I recall one time I was on my way and we were in California, man you know young ladies and everything, it was beautiful you know. Good treatment and matter of fact one time I was on my way with the Viet-[inaudible at 17:58] this was later in my career but [inaudible at 18:03] this White couple saw me in and they bought me drinks and all that stuff and they happen to be staying in the same hotel I was staying in, they took me to the airport the next morning and everything. They said oh my son is in Kadena and I was in Thailand, south of Bangkok, summerside, I was at camp summerside and one day someone says hey some people are looking for you and these people found me in Thailand, I mean they looked me up and found me and we went out and had a great time you know. They were a couple from New York and they were retired firemen one of them. So that was a great great honor on my behalf but no I didn’t personally experience the spitting on and the heckling and stuff and I don’t think I would be sitting here talking to you now if I had personally accosted like that because no one would’ve spit on my face and I would’ve punched them so I just question sometimes soldiers who really say that actually happened I think it’s hand me down tales personally.

	S:	On the contrary, besides this couple that you just told us about, do you think that you were treated with more respect just of higher esteem when you came back?

	M:	I think so, I think so.





	S:	You think it was because you served or if it was just like time, race relations were getting better?

	M:	Probably the time I served at that time because I came back- I went in early in the war and the American people hadn’t raised up in arms about being in the war and later as demonstrations started and protests and everything, I think that’s when the spitting and the harassment and the heckling and all that stuff began and that was beyond me, I was still in the military but I wasn’t in that environment directly.

	P:	So you said you went to airborne- do you have something- M:	Go ahead.

	P:	I say you said you went to airborne school so is that primarily what you did once you were in Vietnam like jumping off planes or can you-

	M:	No no that was the initial thing when we went Vietnam you couldn’t- they really didn’t have airplanes and stuff like that so they waived the jumping and when you’re an airborne you’re supposed to jump every- at minimum every 90- no six months I believe to stay on jump status well eventually they just told me that that was impossible so they just waived that requirement so you didn’t have to jump any more so in my initial journey to Vietnam I walked the rice patties and the jungles and is a ground trooper and then later in my second career I went to MI school, military intelligence, and I was in Sweden, cold in the status, I lived in the cities. I lived in Detroit [inaudible at 22:01] I joined the service. I stayed there from what [19]71- I had break in service in 1967, I got an exit to service in December [19]67 and a year later I reenlisted. I was living in Detroit and then I





stayed in Detroit. I went to Fort Howard, Maryland to the Intel course and then I returned to Detroit as a special agent and that’s when the protests were rampant in Detroit.

	P:	What year was that?



	M:	1968, I reenlisted in [19]68 so in [19]68, [19]69, [19]70, [19]71 I was in Detroit and they had the riots and Dr. King got killed and riots more and protests and we were all out there in the thick of that, my unit you know we were on the ground in civilian clothing doing what we were accused of doing I supposed. You know in 1974 they had these sitting hearings and they said we were doing the wrong thing and a lot of repercussion came from what the military was doing. We were blurring the line between what the military should be doing in the United States and what they shouldn’t be. So they broke up those units.

	P:	What did you do in those units? You were a special agent you said?



	M:	Well primarily my main function was to do the background investigation for security clearances. We went out and knocked on doors and gathered information on anybody who needed a security clearance. But when you know the military backed up and you know they call the forces, they call in the national guard and then the national guard can’t handle it and then they call in the army but army you know anytime you go someplace you need some intel on what you going into so we were the units that provided that information and coordinated with the local police and other units and all that to restore order . So that’s what the unit did but I did investigations for security clearances primarily and then those addition functions fell into place and then I stayed in Detroit and then I went





to Thailand that’s when I mentioned that on my way there I met this couple and they sought me out and brought me all these gifts and stuff and they discovered damn this guy’s living better than we are you know I mean it was a good assignment over there. I stayed there two years and then I became disgruntled and I got out of the service. So I got out of the service I went back to Detroit and then I said you know what I’m not at the military so I rejoined and I stayed in Detroit again cause they needed soldiers there and they needed agents there and they especially needed some Black agents there you know and I happen to be a Black agent stationed in the city and I have mixed feelings about that because a lot of times- Detroit was changing quite a bit at that point in time and White agents couldn’t go in certain neighborhoods and do certain things I’m talking about board things, security clearance for example. Well I felt that you know if a person joined the Army and if the person cannot, could not do their background investigation, they couldn’t get a security clearance. If they couldn’t get a security clearance they couldn’t advance so Blacks were being hampered because if they couldn’t get a security clearance whatever they joined the service for they couldn’t ever go into sooner or late they’d get fallen off into a nonclearance type position, IE, often times infantry, armor, whatever, nothing wrong with that but that’s where they got fallen off to and then someone else would take over. So a lot of times a White guy goes in and says hey you know I couldn’t go over there because it’s too rough you know but I ever had any problem I just [inaudible 27:39] heftier looking like that and I’ve seen ten or twelve guys standing around the corner and I pull up and I stuff like that and





pretend I had a weapon on me and stuff like that and walked right straight through them, they’d step back but often time I knock on the door and step back. That I be scared to death you know I’m serious. You knock and a lot of those things you know guys come out and take a look and who’s that guy you know but I never- they never confronted me and I never confronted them and often time I got sent down to [inaudible at 28:18]. When a bunch of the guys got killed over there in Chicago with police you know raiding some homes and killed some of them well-known names cause they were doing illegal stuff but I went down there and came out. I just had my way of doing things and I managed to get in and get out without being accosted.

	P:	How did you- how did the civil rights movement impact your service, your military service?

	M:	I think it helped a lot because you know I moved in- I went into a field that Blacks were not in at the time and whenever like when I was in Detroit I was probably the only Black person in the whole state in that field and- so I wouldn’t have been there had the civil rights movement not opened the door for me to move into those type of positions and I didn’t have the college education and stuff like that that others- I just happened to be lucky enough to get into it because to go into my field you had to get interviewed by an officer and if he didn’t recommend you, you just didn’t you didn’t come in so when I interviewed for the position back in [19]67 in [19]68 rather when I had the break in service and they recommended it. I went on off to Fort Howard, Maryland at that point in time and came back, right back to the city and matter of fact there was one- a Black captain came in from





somewhere he was a field officer commander other than that, he wasn’t on the street, wasn’t on the streets and then later a couple of other guys did come in and they left but it impacted and assisted me quick well.

	P:	Did you have any mentors or people you looked up to while in the military?



	M:	No no not there and that’s I guess the downside of my particular service because you were always isolated not that- I mean I got along great don’t get me wrong but I didn’t have anyone I could confide in that I could trust and could say hey Henry this is what you need to do, this is that. I recall once he was master sergeant in Thailand, he’s a Black guy and I was one of so called special agents and I was surveilling code and stuff like that and I used to do a lot of good things and he would say- I would say well you know he’d say oh man you did a great job and blah blah blah I’m gonna send. I don’t need nothing, he said let me tell you something, anytime someone give you a congratulatory comment or something like that, ask them to put it in writing, tell them to write it down because let me tell you one day when you don’t think those comments mean anything but to the fact that you don’t have those comments will mean a lot in your future. So he says if someone tells you great tell them to write it down even if it’s on a napkin you know because it’s gonna mean something later and I that’s when I took a change of heart and said you know when people say congratulations don’t downplay your own work you know accept it and I followed that advice later. And another time I was in Germany I had a CW4, Mr. Sing and I worked together and I watched Mr. Sing, he could self-promote like you wouldn’t believe you know I learned a lot from him. He and I just like you and I





sitting here now and our commander might be sitting in the room and stuff and he would say you know start to talking to me suddenly and he says okay Henry when we leave here let’s X and let’s do Y and now yesterday we did- he’s telling the commander what were doing slyly behind the back door and he’s okay now let’s go and do XYZ when we leave here. Okay yes sir you know I would fall into the thing and then we get out there and we walk outside and said okay, see you tomorrow. You self-promote you know. Another guy used to say, he was a warrant officer and he would call headquarters and he would say oh yes we can do that you know it might want to be he’d go down to Munich for example. He says I’ll tell you what you do, he says, call my boss and request me by name just don’t mention that I asked you but say you want this job to do such and such thing and we’ll come and do it and sure enough man it’d come through the chain of command and then make us look oh great you know they’re asking for you guys by name and we’d go to Munich and have a good time. We’d go to do work, don’t get me wrong but we would go there and then that would be a self-type promotion.

	S:	Do you think being in the military gave you a different perspective on politics and government?

	M:	Yes it did and this is my [inaudible at 35:02] just bleeds like this. I think so, I know one thing that the government kind of hide things that that would better admitting you know a lot of things. It makes me now look at the news all the time and I look at the responses to the news. I sit on YouTube and the computer all day and read reports and then I read the comments, different responses and stuff. Matter





of fact I have my computer full of responses myself so I’m on all kind of programs giving my opinion and I used to kind of tape it off now but I used to respond to a lot of surveys and I do make contribution to different political parties and then you get all kind of surveys coming at you but yes, yes, it caused me to view political things in a different light. And I’ve seen the truth and I’ve seen the untruth published.

	S:	Can expand on some of this? M:	Pardon me.

	S:	Some of those, can you expand on some of those things? M:	Oh boy I don’t know.

	S:	If you feel comfortable.



	M:	Let’s come back at that later maybe I can just roll it in or something cause I don’t know if I’m making sense on what I’m saying right now.

	P:	Do you think it’s important for veterans to stay active in political conversations? M:	I think so but I think a veteran puts a- I hate to say this especially being taped but

I hate to say this but when you have a dictator or a leader, I think veterans will follow that person faster than anyone else. Most- a lot of veterans I’ve seen look for the leader to say something and they follow. They look for the leader to say they don’t want to think independently. I happen to come up when I was- I had to think independently and I go with the flow. When I was in Detroit and Thailand and other places I was independent back in Detroit. I didn’t go to the office but once a week. I was expected to go out there and make my own decisions on what to do, I had my guidance and I made those decisions. If I hadn’t I wouldn’t





have spent twenty-seven years in the military if I had spent it in a military structured organization. I never- they would’ve kicked my butt out because I just couldn’t go with the grain. I would go with what the rule or regulation would say but damn my commander say something I’m gonna kind of fall in line but I’ll be pushing a fork in his butt from behind and then eventually he might come so I didn’t just blindly follow directions but most people I see out here blindly follow directions. I’ve seen it too many times and I’ve had to even when I transitioned to civilian life leaving the military I had to do inspections and people seem to- people will follow what people say rather than what they read and direct directions. I don’t know if I’m making any sense here. I used to work in personnel and you’ll no- let me take another train- people would rather say Henry how do I do XYZ and you tell them how do XYZ because the organization has been doing XYZ for the last twenty years but somebody come in- if I come and look and say well dang you know you guys been doing it wrong, this is how you’re supposed to do it and all that stuff and people say well Joe Smuck so they’ll pick up the phone and call someone else and they used to do it and my bosses in the military too.

Pick up the phone and say well we gone call CORE which is a higher level and now I might have been doing this thing for the last twenty years and I know I’m doing it right and they call the higher level and they call the person with less experience, no experience, because they happen to be at the higher level and they say of course you’re supposed to do XYZ but damn you call a private at the CORE. Now if I didn’t [inaudible at 41:07] and you had called me I would’ve told you exactly how to do it right, right, but now you gonna follow a person who has





no experience and do it because you had a lower headquarters because the higher headquarters told you to do it and that’s the only reason they’re doing it and they follow the wrong track and believe it or not I think that’s how I survived because I always went to the rules first and if I asked my commander, commander can we do it XYZ and they said no we can’t do it. So the rules say this is how it’s supposed to be done and he says no this is the way, no I follow this and usually I got- for example the one time I was leaving Fort Mead, Maryland and typically they would say you move your family, I wasn’t gonna take my family to Germany immediately because I wanted them to finish school, so you have to take them, pack them up and move them off the coast and I went to the rules and said oh no you don’t have to do that. All you have to do is put in a request to leave your family on post and if they got housing, they’ll allow them to do it. You can’t do that I said well okay, I’ll fill out the paperwork and put it in. I left my family right there, people saying I didn’t know you can do that. Well you ask the first sergeant, you ask the commander, they don’t know crap either you know. All they did was follow direction, they could also [inaudible at 42:45] they told them this is how it’s done, no. Then the same thing when I got ready to leave for Germany, I said I’m gonna leave my family here because I want to go to Fort Stuart, Georgia and I’m gonna find them housing and I don’t want to disrupt them and take them out of school and- you can’t do that. I said you just watch me, put it in- how did you do that you know so that’s what I mean. You learn from yourself.





	P:	How do you have conversations with people now who just want to follow someone in charge?

	M:	Oh yes.



	P:	Do you still like engage in like not arguments but conversations with them about the best way to do something, the best way to think about something?

	M:	Now I do it on YouTube. P:	Oh okay.

	M:	I have a follow these tracks and I be posting and I used to do it on Tallahassee Democrat you know I kind of drifted from that but when something is going down in the community and I see something I don’t like then I post it on the comments line and stuff like that and we get arguments going you know under a pseudonym name naturally and I’ve persuaded people to follow my information and stuff like that.

	P:	What YouTube videos are you watching? What channels?



	M:	I watch a lot of the crime, the police thing and all of these channels, I don’t know where this stuff is going but a lot of them are people like they go around and photograph, just filming and it’s amazing how police and people go crazy when you come out with a camera. Lord have mercy, I can’t believe it you know, see I think really the American people wants to be dominated, they do. People don’t want to be free because they want to follow someone instead of saying wait a minute this is America and you’re supposed to be free and you can take your camera and you can walk and snap pictures any place you want. When you on vacation you don’t think twice about taking people’s pictures, you do this and this





and this but you walk around here or something like that, I’m not saying necessarily Monticello cause I’m not sure how they respond but just to take someone’s picture, you can’t do that you’ve got to get permission. Since when? You know you got to ask my permission to film me, ask my permission to take photographs of a government building you know I see some many people saying you can’t take a picture of a government building. Where in the hell do you get that notion? What makes a government building different from any other building, that buildings been there for the last fifty years you know I got cameras on my truck, on my car, web cameras and all that stuff and if I’m standing out in front of a place taking a picture, I’m most certainly not for nefarious reasons because I hide and do it if I don’t want you to come out and confront me you know but that’s the kind of stuff I’m talking about so when people put themselves in the privilege or you see someone beat some else, they always go on the side of the law enforcement instead of saying the person just in their rights you know. Stand up for their rights. I remember one time I was in Detroit, I was home on vacation, not that I was home for emergency leave and I went downtown Detroit because when I flew in my ticket cost me- I had a tickets from- flight from Germany to Detroit and back and I decided you know what while I’m in Detroit I’m gonna come to Florida here and I went into this station to trade the ticket and the ticket agent- it was eastern airline I think at the time, he had a very arrogant attitude and I thought he was lying to me. He said no you got to go down to the Delta and get them to give you a voucher and then come back here and do this and I was kind of angry a little bit and my buddy was angry and he said, my buddy says to





him, says- at first I said you better not be lying to me cause I was kind of tipped a little bit and he says if I am what you gonna do and my buddy said we’ll come back and play tattoo on your head and Ima tell you it only took me about a minute to walk from his ticket counter down the hall to Delta and for Delta to give me voucher. And the guy was correct, the information he gave it was correct but by the time I got back to his office a police officer was there. The police officer confronted me and says you can’t come in here and he’s not gonna give you a ticket. I said what in the hell are you talking about, he said you threatened [inaudible at 48:39] whatever I said I didn’t do no such thing and God damn it you gonna give me a ticket too. I said you don’t- you shouldn’t be in here and he had his hand on his gun and stuff like that and I said you take your hand off your gun and you get your ass out of here because whatever and I said you don’t have anything to do, this is a civil matter and you whatever. So he kind of I think the ticket agent saw it was oh shit this guy’s getting ready to get his ass [inaudible at 49:08] so he intervened and says hell I’ll give him the ticket something like that but that’s the kind of confrontation that I would’ve- I wouldn’t do that today, Lord knows I wouldn’t do it today because these guys- he would’ve shoot me today whereas that was twenty years ago, thirty years ago now but that’s kind of. We talking too much.

	P:	So what did being in the military teach you about yourself?



	M:	It taught me to be self-reliant. It taught me to persevere in whatever I do. When I came out I went into the civilian sector and I worked for the state government and living more rigid when I first came out but I learned to fit back into civilian world





cause I worked in a personnel office later and I was the only male in there and the women you know I would speak a little more authoritative and I learned to not speak so authoritative and the women for the most part were my supervisors and then some later became my subordinates but I learned to make that transition.

Once I did that everything went well for me, I advanced in the state government and it gave me the leadership abilities that probably I didn’t have and I’m lacking in a lot of leadership because I watch my brothers, the two that later served and I still learn from them, they are younger but they had leadership skills and stuff like that and I just kind of wonder sometimes dang it if I had to survive in their world, would I’ve survived but their more authoritative.

	P:	So that’s the end of our questions, is there anything we didn’t touch upon that you’d like to add?

	M:	No I think I talked too much.



	P:	No you talked a great amount. We learned a lot. On behalf of the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program we thank you for giving us your time and sharing your story, we appreciate it.

	M:	Okay, thank you.



	P:	Thank you, I’m gonna end the recording.





[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Amanda Lorenzo, October 29, 2019 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, January 19, 2021





	Final edited by:	Sandra Romero, January 26, 2021