AAHP 652; Marceus; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 652 Ashley Marceus Interviewed by Juliette Barbera on May 1, 2019

24 Pages



Abstract:

Keywords: [African American History; NAACP; University of Florida]



AAHP 652

Interviewee: Ashley Marceus Interviewer: Juliette Barbera Date: May 1, 2019



	B:	So hello, this is Juliette Barbera and I am here with Ashley Marceus, is that how you say it right?

	M:	Yes.



	B:	And it is May 1, 2019. Do you want to spell your name? M:	Yes it is A-S-H-L-E-Y, Marceus which is M-A-R-C-E-U-S.

	B:	And you are an African-American studies, women’s studies and political science major?

	M:	Yes I am.



	B:	Anything else? Minors? M:	No I wish.

	B:	Okay so that’s great and you had mentioned you were interested in doing an interview with us now that you’re graduating in a few days—

	M:	Yes.



B:  And so I guess you can start with when and where you were born. M:   I was born April 8, 1997 in West Palm Beach, Florida.

B:   Okay and do you have any memories of West Palm Beach or anything you’d like to share about?

M:  I was actually there for a brief time, so five years and then we moved to Sarasota and then my life really was more in the southwest Florida area. Just some family, some Haitian heritage but not much.

B:  Okay and when did you enroll at UF, what year you start? M:  2015, so August 2015.





	B:	Okay and what made you choose University of Florida?



	M:	I’m not gonna lie Howard University was my first choice, I was valedictorian of my class. I was kind of expected to go here, the scholarships are really great here so it was kind of expected, it was a great school. I never toured school. I never really had that passion for coming here, I know everyone around me at my high school wanted to go here, a lot of people didn’t get in so it was just kind of expected like you got in, you have to go. So I’m not gonna lie I was never super zealous about coming here.

	B:	And you had mentioned before we started the interview that you were thinking of transferring when you first came here?

	M:	Yeah the first three days were really, really tough and my reasons for transfer were kind of- they’re different from like probably [inaudible at 02:03] Black students. It was just kind of like I missed my family, I was so close to my family. I missed home. So I just wanted to get back and get as close to home as possible so yeah.

	B:	And what was your first year here like then and how did it change as you are now in your fourth year?

	M:	My first year here, I was just completely focused on academics. Completely focused on just like working out and just like the individual and myself, just being here and excelling because that’s what I thought it was all about. I’m not gonna lie I was not completely aware of my Black identity like I grew up kind of in the suburbs, always around White people. Always in the honors and AP classes, dual enrollment classes. So I always you know the token Black girl so I was used





to being around White people on campus. Yeah I just wanted to focus on myself but I think as the year went on it gradually changed because the White people here are different. It’s kind of like, yes you’re still the token Black person but you’re not really a token it’s just kind of like other here so you feel that sense of isolation and I was feeling it the longer I was here. So like I started off not really wanting to do much with the Black community, not really being aware of my Black identity. Took my first African-American studies class my fall semester here, my first semester here, kind of started being open to different things, you know Dr. [inaudible at 03:37] does that to you. Your eyes kind of just open, you know the wheels come off and I just kind of started to be aware that I was Black. So it’s crazy because I like to tell people, I started off as a really conservative person, a Republican. Fourth year I’m as liberal as can be. I’m feminist really involved in the Black community, champion for the Black community, aware of my identity and I think the biggest thing that I got away from these four years is that it’s not about me. Like the first year was just me, get my degree, leave here, like “Go be great, go be a lawyer, do this for myself,” but now it’s like I’m doing this like an entire community, entire Black community, it’s no longer just about me. So I think that’s the biggest change I’ve ever seen.

	B:	That’s great. A lot of students were taught so everything is individualized so— M:	It’s so crazy.

	B:	I think I met the freshmen year or your second year. M:	Yeah sophomore year.

	B:	Okay yeah so it’s cool to see the transformation.





	M:	Yeah it’s astounding honestly.



	B:	Yeah and you kind of touched upon this but if you want to explain more on this— how do you think your own identities or others identities have influenced your experience here, negative or positive?

	M:	I can say that at UF I’m stuck so it’s just kind of like I’m disappointed by those who share my identity and those who don’t. So like let me start off with the cliché, the basic, the obvious White community here like it’s a predominant White institution, the racism is institutionalized, its systemic, you feel it, it’s like so tense in the air, it’s toxic. The greatest example that all Black students here face is if you ride the bus, especially a busy bus, you sit down. The seat next to you will be empty the entire bus ride, it doesn’t matter if like the bus is packed like nobody wants to sit next to you. So that’s the basic sense of racism that you’ll see and people might say “Oh that’s not that big of a deal,” but these micro aggressions build up. Because even little things just like the looks that you get from like White students on campus like, “Do you belong here?” I remember the first micro aggression I faced here was parking the parking lot and then like a parking attendant asking if I went here kind of implying you know, “You go to Santa Fe.” So I mean and then just like the fake activism. The making it seem like you care about Black students and making it seem like you understand and that you’re gonna do something about it but then the larger White hegemony of this university just kind of does the same thing over and over again, little talks you know? The little committees, the groups that are just going nowhere. And you know honestly that’s expected because you know the history of racism and we’re





seeing how it’s evolved like nothing’s new but then I think I’m even greater— the greater disappointment comes from the Black community here. I’m going to be completely honest, I think that’s what broke my heart the most. The community that loved, that I fought for, that I was fighting for, was kind of just reproducing White supremacy in every single way. It was hard to fathom and it’s still hard to fathom. Like I said I came in with the individualistic mentality and leaving with the collective, the community, like how can I help this community progress overall?

And I feel like in the Black community they have that individualistic mentality and as a Black person, we can’t we can’t do that. Like if we want to move forward together we cannot have that mentality but that’s what’s here. It’s an elitist community. It’s a nametag culture and you know it’s interesting that Martin Luther King kind of spoke about it. The drum major instinct, so like it’s typically that instinct that we all have to have recognition to be at the top and it’s just— it seeped into the Black community so intensely like if you are not a part of Greek life, if you’re not a part of BSU, then who are you? Like the isolation is even deeper in the Black community. So the community that you’re supposed to run to to find community, to find a home, like that’s where the isolation is even worse.

It’s interesting because you know I’ve dabbled in both of those things and I’ve seen the change, I’ve the elitism, I’ve seen people you know ostracize their own people based off of the elitism, the status that I’ve seen and I’ve heard other people outside of those realms of the Black community just tell me how it made them feel and how it’s unwelcoming especially to the LGBTQ+ community, the Black individuals of that community, like they just feel so isolated, ostracized, it’s





intense. Just thinking about how they grapple and they handle racism on campus is kind of like oh it exists but we’re not gonna do anything about it we’re just here to get our degrees and to go forward. I was actually in a council of Black leaders and as president of NAACP, as someone who internalizes social justice this is my life. This is something I’ve dedicated like every part of me to and this is something God’s called me to so I’m not even gonna fight it. I was very disappointed when I would say more than 90 percent of the leaders in the room said that they were not willing to withdraw from this university for any racist incident and it all came back to exactly what we spoke about before is the individual. My mom sent me here for my degree like it’s all about “Me, me, me” my degree like they were not at all thinking about the Black individuals to come and I always say this, I’m so grateful that you weren’t alive when Black Thursday happened that you weren’t a part of the history of the Black establishment here. So it’s just the this and it’s just scary to think like those are our leaders on this campus that are supposed to be making the impact. So if you deviate from that in anyway then you’re isolated like we kind of talked about. So I started deviating from it I kind of just distanced myself from because I just saw like it wasn’t real.

This Black community, it doesn’t really feel Black because it’s reproducing White supremacy it’s just like you’re a cog in a machine like Dr. [inaudible at 10:10] likes to say and they’re just here for the nametag culture you know they want the same things that the predominantly White institution wants. They want the cicerones, they want the status through Greek life. They want to get into Blue Key, they all want you know hall of fame. They just want these little things that





are gonna make them great personally not the Black community great and I’ve seen over and over again. And I hate to generalize but it’s just become so redundant that I’m just kind of like I have no choice but to generalize. Sorry that was a lot.

	B:	No no, definitely I understand. I’m not sure if students were still planning to withdraw but I remember when I was in Black affairs I was trying to get people on that. Nobody wanted to do that cause like you’re saying other people prior to, made a lot of sacrifices.

	M:	Oh yeah.



	B:	We need to continue that because you’re still like in a very similar position.



	M:	Yeah I think that’s what this leadership council was struggling with. So they wanted to at first address the racism on campus, the graduation issue and they would admit over and over again you know “We have no leverage, we have no leverage.” The greatest leverage you can have obviously is withdraw from this university but there’s different things you can do, you know you can do like a boycott of like the restaurants on campus, little things like that, but to— not willing to be doing anything I think is absolutely insane, it’s crazy. I think emails were the best thing they could do and when I was a part of the council it was just kind of like, “I feel like our ancestors would be so ashamed,” and I’m just like I feel ashamed to be here right now. I silently removed myself. I couldn’t take it anymore ‘cause it’s just hard to feel like you’re the only one in the room that really cares. You’re the only one in the room that’s willing to make sacrifices for all of these other individuals. So I intentionally just removed myself because it’s





just so toxic. It’s so toxic for your mental health and to be constantly disappointed so I just removed myself and put my energies into the Gainesville community because like I said, the Black community on campus it’s something else. I don’t know what it is, it’s like a Black bourgeoisie that don’t think collectively about Black progress, collectively.

	B:	And you mentioned being involved in outside of UF in the Gainesville community, do you want to talk a little bit more about that?

	M:	Yeah I love the Gainesville community so much like I think leaving honestly that’s going to be the hardest thing. I don’t want to cry but it’s going to be the hardest thing. It’s interesting because you’re the one who brought up Porters to me. I remember you put in my head and ever since you put it in my head I was just like where is this place, I’m so interest. So I started looking more into it and then there was a summer I took Dr. [inaudible at 13:16] class and I saw Porters, I would hear about it. I’m like I’m going there no matter what I’m going there. I went, I just loved it. I fell in love with it the director was awesome chance was amazing, the kids there were just great. The community was nice, I loved it so much and working in the Gainesville community was amazing and just everything that just like reminded me of what I’m supposed to do with my life and you can see the fruitful impact. And it’s interesting because what you do in the Gainesville community, it seems like you’ll never be recognized for it on campus unless like you know— I was lucky enough that some articles were written about somethings we did like we did a free breakfast program for Black history month. We dedicated the entire month to just servicing the students and the kids in the area





at the community center so we taught them Black history as well as gave them free breakfast inspired by the Black Panthers of course. So the Gainesville community here is amazing. I feel like God sent me here for a reason because the disparities it’s just too obvious, it’s way too obvious so the fact that I was gifted with a Black community here, obvious Black community here that was in need of help, in need of resources. I’m so grateful for it like they had a huge impact as well in my college experience. I definitely got that Black collectivism. That Black sense of community more so from the Gainesville community than from the on campus Black community. They definitely inspired me. They showed me like what you’re doing is right, keep it up, even though you know you’re not being recognized for it on campus. Even though like the Black students on campus probably don’t condone what you’re doing or understand it, the Gainesville community did and I was more able to see the impact from the Gainesville community. Like one thing I will say and that I remember deeply was there was an article that came out and it was about the failing diversity rates on UF’s campus, I was actually in the article, I got interviewed for it and it’s interesting. The greatest impact I heard from it was actually from a Black woman from the Gainesville community like of course I got like great job on the article.

	But to actually hear the reality of it from a Gainesville— B:	Resident.

	M:	Resident, I don’t want to say local that’s very disrespectful. It was powerful like I said it felt cosmetic. It felt fake here, even though a lot of Black students on campus were like, “You captured it, you definitely captured the essence of how it





feels to be a Black student on campus.” But to just hear it from someone in the Gainesville community who actually lives in this community, who’s impacted by the university, I don’t know for me it just meant so much more.

	B:	Do you want to mention— because I know you briefly mentioned NAACP, are you trying to talk a little more about that or any other of the things that you’ve been involved in?

	M:	NAACP, it was the best of times and the worst of times. I think just like my experience here at the University of Florida. It was a great organization that has so much history to it, so much power and potential for power. It was definitely overlooked by I think the Black. By the university, it was kind of like because its mission was to fight White supremacy. Its mission was to dismantle everything kind of going on in this university, it was intentionally overlooked. It was kind of— I’m going to be honest, it was looked at as the anti-thesis to BSU. So BSU, I’ll be completely honest, it kind of felt like its purpose was to make you feel comfortable in your oppression here. To make you feel complacent. To make you feel like “Yeah we’re all Black and we’re gonna just come together because we’re all Black,” so NAACP was about taking it a step further. It was about, “Okay we have a bunch of Black individuals here, now we’re going to take our social responsibility as Black people and try to make an impact and try to dismantle you know what’s going on, on campus.” I just completely disagree that BSU or any Black organization is not supposed to be political. That’s something that came out of the council too, I completely disagree. By being Black you are automatically political. Your skin is political, you have a social responsibility to





help your race and to fight racism and I emphasized that in the council meetings. The common denominator here is that we’re all Black, if we’re not gonna do anything about it there’s a problem. So, NAACP was a great way to make the impact, make the change and like I said, because it wasn’t buying into the systemic culture on this campus. You know Cicerones, of elitism, of doing the same things everyone else was doing, it was definitely overlooked. Our efforts are endeavorous, definitely overlooked and honestly definitely I feel like you’re punished. You’re kind of ostracized for not falling in line and agreeing to do what everyone else is doing, whether it’s the White community on campus or the Black community which is like I said, a reproduction of the White community. So we’re overlooked but I would say that I don’t care, I really don’t care because like I said it was never about the accolades for me or the recognition, it was about the impact and I can say that even though it was a hectic year because this organization had been abused in the past and used. It’s been abused by people trying to actually enter Black Greek life and used to get in and once they got it was kind of like it would be dismantled, it would rot and after so many years of that happening it kind of was just like in shambles so I took it upon myself to become president, rebranded it to the best that I could even though like I still face the internal issues of you know leadership and just like I said the nametag culture people just wanting the titles but not the roles. So I carried as best as I could. We did voter registration, we did a lot of community service. What else did we do?

Oh yeah first semester definitely focused on voter registration and just trying to be there for the Black org as much as possible and then the next semester was





more service. Like I said, the free breakfast program, we allocated all of our resources to that. Because we didn’t buy into the culture of programming here like a lot of people are like what are they doing like you guys aren’t doing anything but our impact like I said was in the Gainesville community. It was where it mattered it wasn’t about you know doing the most programs or being the most flashy. It was more about the impact and because of that I appreciated the experience. Like I said, it empowered my purpose, it sustained my passion. Yeah so it was a wonderful experience even though you know some people will never understand.

	B:	If you think about it like historically anybody who’s ever like sit up against White supremacy or anything have always been on the margins of like they— people don’t know about it or these organizations kind of get like put away type of thing so it’s something that generations have struggled with. Even though it’s hard it’s like you’re saying you’re doing the work because you know the relevance and name the relevance and are willing to give up so many things like a lot of people who’ve been politically active— like I heard an oral history interview in Louisiana of someone who was a Black panther organizer and their family had to sacrifice so much. They lost their livelihood and these kind of things because politically it’s not supported. So being able to continue that work is I guess the ancestors would be very proud of that type of thing.

	M:	Thank you, no definitely. This is where African-American studies comes back in kind of I learned about some of these great amazing people like [inaudible at 21:30] who I love deeply, Angela Davis, all of them. It just you know how much





they had to sacrifice you know they were willing to die for this and I’m honestly willing to die for this. So it’s just like having that in the back of mind and having that inspire absolutely everything I do. Especially Dr. King, because if you think about it, yes you know he got all of these awards but he was never appreciated to the full capacity until he died. Dr. Simmons always told me about that. She shocked me when I took her class “Martyr Malcolm” that was the name of the class and she was just kind of like he was hated when he was alive. People kind of overlooked him, it was not until he died that everything that he did was kind of recognized. He became the supreme civil rights leader even though there were other civil rights leaders of course. So yeah, I kind of internalize that like I said I’m not doing this for the allocates. I’m a deeply religious person so it’s just kind of like I pray and it’s like I’m doing this because I know where I’m going in the end. I know what I’m meant to do. I know I’m making God happy with the work I’m doing so yeah, it’s fine.

B:  I share the same sentiments and is there anything else you’d like to share about maybe your experiences or things you’ve seen as a student or maybe whatever we didn’t touch upon that you wanted to talk about more?

	M:	I would say it’s definitely hard. It’s definitely definitely hard. Like I said, it’s the best of times and the worst of times. I think the best of times is just the way that the experience made me as a person. It cultivated me I don’t want to sit here and lie and be like yay I got my three degrees, it was so great all the time and I think that’s what typically happens when people graduate. They just look back in rosy retrospection or they’re just like “This was the best experience of my life go





gators!” I’m just like, “No, no, no, no, no hold up like this is the best experience of my life because it made me.” It was all of these hurtful, harmful things that I experienced, the toxicity of it, having to live through it, walk through it every single day. That’s what made me. That’s what made it a great experience even though in the moment it was hard, it was tough, depression was real for me.

Suicide like thought was real because being in this toxic environment and feeling like you can’t escape because you know you’re here for four years so even for me going through like season of depression for like junior year like you still have two years ahead so it’s just like, “I don’t feel like I can make it. I don’t think I can get out of here.” So it’s toxic and like I said the most hurtful part, the most heartbreaking part is that the reproduction is going on in the Black community so again you feel like there is no escape and if you deviate from this mentality in any sense in any way you’re isolated you’re ostracized, you’re kind of looked at as crazy. People don’t understand you so it’s tough and honestly I guess the feminist in me will even say like it’s even harder to understand the reproduction of patriarchy in the Black community. Just thinking about how they are not welcoming to the LGBTQ+ community. They can say they are, they can act like it, toxic masculinity is in Black Greek life, it’s in overall everything like we don’t really work on those communities as best as we could. Definitely I learned more and more through my women’s studies major but their isolated in a way that’s just unbearable. I think something that’s not really talked about is the place of Black women on this campus. We’re definitely overlooked because you know Blackness is always looked as a monolithic thing that represents Black men so





the experience of Black women is completely overlooked. That was something that I wanted to work on while I was here definitely to bring Black women together. By looking at the majority you’re looking at the most privileged and that’s something I like to say so by looking at the Black students you’re looking at Black men even though there are more Black women here than Black men. Our experiences are kind of overlooked and over shadowed by Black men. So [inaudible at 26:04] of Black women here is completely different from just the social aspects of dating and sexual assault like all of it, it’s just completely different here and it’s something that no one really explores or talks about, I wish people did because I can see it, I can hear it. I hear it from Black women all the time like it’s so hard. Their mental health is just, it’s decimated by being here. I see it and I hear it and they just don’t feel like there’s no cohesiveness, believe it or not there’s not one Black organization for Black women that is all inclusive that is just about Black women coming together. So that was something I really wish I could have done because elitism is too real. Any organization that claims to be for Black women you have to get into so whether it’s a Greek organization or some other type of organization, you have to get it. You have to be picked to be a part of it. So those Black women that are not in those organizations so what about them? So they don’t deserve that sense of community? They have to, yeah so it’s definitely I think harder I don’t want to like- it is harder to be [inaudible at 27:19] because you’re dealing with the sexism and the racism. You’re dealing with the internal sexism here I think something that really threw me off was the objectification and the dehumanization that she would actually get from the Black





men here. Nobody wants to talk about it but it was real it was something that really impacted my four years. Yeah I think that’s— what I was saying is Black women wasn’t being here, not just being Black but also Black women.

	B:	I guess I can also ask are there any mentors that you had here during your time that might have— someone that you feel like maybe made this process a little bit easier or maybe help in your development in your time here or other students?

	M:	Yeah I think as I changed— started off I would say everyone helped me in a very different way. Who I’m ending with is not who I started with. So I definitely started off Black affairs you know helping me get my feet wet being on Black people so they’re definitely I think were [inaudible at 28:37] so that was great, getting my feet in the water. And then I think as the years went on especially our new director, Carl was great Jonah was great like they were great with helping Black affairs and then something happened, I don’t know what it was. It was like an enlightening of my Blackness of like there has to be more I can do and actually I will say that since my freshman year, since that fall semester that I had, I had [inaudible at 29:12] for the first time. There was something about him that really just like— he got me, I don’t know what it was but I think from the very beginning up until this point Dr. [inaudible at 29:28] has been a mentor for me. It’s interesting because I remember during that shift when I was in his Black wall street class and he was just uncovering the reality of you know economic oppression and how it’s like the new form of racism and you know how like the systemic racism uses economics. My mind was blown, my eyes opened up and I





was going through that shift and I was just like talking about it and somebody was just like you sound like Dr. Jamil you’ve been around him too much.

	B:	It’s a good thing.



	M:	In my head it’s a good thing but I know that like on this campus he’s probably not like the most liked because he keeps it real with you. So I would say he has been a huge amazingly huge factor in my college career here. One person that I will say is Ebony Love like it’s interesting because she was there from who I was to who I am because who I was we didn’t get along at first. We were completely different; I was just kind of fighting for the forces that be like not realizing where she was coming from. Not realizing that she is who I am now like you’re chasing that impact, you want to see fruitful impact, you don’t want the bare minimum. So then I was just kind of okay with the bare minimum, okay with the complacency on campus and then now it’s kind of just like, “How can we take that a step further?” How can we actually make real conducive progressive Black change not only on this campus but also in the community and for the Black community like universally. So I think she was amazing, she’s still is amazing like she’s the one that encouraged me to go to law school, encouraged me throughout all of it so she’s been great as well. Mentors I think honestly she was the closest and realist thing I had to a mentor. Spiritually, I had like [inaudible at 31:27] who encouraged me to stay in my faith but I’ve had other mentors here and there but those are the only ones that I can think of that deeply impacted my college career like heavily impacted. Also faculty members I think honestly that’s gonna be the greatest thing I miss, no shade to the students but the faculty members are the





ones that really impacted my college career from women’s studies, the different professors I had who were so caring, Dr. [inaudible at 31:58] she was amazing you know. So I think the faculty here were my mentors in a way. Some students here and there but the majority of students like I said they didn’t understand me. I understood what they were doing but they didn’t understand me so mentors were influences but kind of light when it came to students but the faculty I’ll never ever forget here.

	B:	Going back to the NAACP, were you involved until like I guess I know they do [inaudible at 32:38] I don’t know if like you’re still involved because the semester over?

	M:	I actually still am involved so actually what’s interesting is that before I became NAACP president here I actually interned and I was kind of the assistant secretary at a NAACP back home which I’m going to actually back and I’m actually gonna help [inaudible at 33:03] so I was involved there, that’s actually another wake up moment in my life where like I learned about my Blackness. I learned about the reality of racism and like oh my goodness this is real. So that kind of inspired me to get involved here with the gator chapter, became a historian, worked for a year and then became president and then now it’s in the hands of Mackintosh and [inaudible at 33:25] which is— they’re doing amazing like their team is great and I hope they do even more than I could. So I’m still there to help him, and help them wherever they need but I’m also gonna keep staying involved like even though it’s not on the collegiate chapter now it’s like the adult one. It’s the Lee County branch of NAACP which is back home so I





can’t wait to get my feet wet as soon as I graduate, I’m excited to go back and help them with what I started because believe it or not that summer I was there like I helped them out so much. Like they’re just so grateful like I reestablished the volunteering or reestablished just like a plan for phone calls, complaints, like handling all this. I’m excited to go back like this year before law school and just go help them and the establishment. So NAACP, I’m still going to be involved with even after college.

	B:	I remember earlier you were saying how there’s not a lot of like- not publicity but people don’t know about it or it’s kind of like it not— people don’t sometimes I guess focus on it or anything like that so I had heard recently that people were planning the, what is it called? The graduation boycott or like what are somethings maybe that you have noticed that or what being in NAACP what are some things that you want to like let us know about that they have accomplished or that they have tried to do because I feel like a part of the history. That is a part of the UF history but like because it’s kind of like put to the side I feel like generations later would benefit from knowing kind of the things you mentioned the breakfast program but are there any things that students are doing now because I just saw an article on alligator saying that they are encouraging students not to attend graduation to protest it so are there- I don’t know if you want to speak on that or just any other things that NAACP is doing to contribute to future students that may not be highlighted.

	M:	Yeah, I think something that’s interesting is that like when this whole graduation issue was going I was president so it was fall semester last year. Working with





Anthony Rojas and Ernesto we had a like a small demonstration outside Tigert, the Black community was nowhere to be seen, nowhere to be found. BSU really did not support it seems like and it was about graduation about what occurred in May of last year. It’s a Black issue, I’m not gonna lie about it, we have to be honest so it was disheartening not to see the Black community, a lot of disappointment coming from the Black community. But we were there by Anthony Rojas side and Ernesto because we believed that this is an important issue and like you said like issues get brushed to the side you know. I think UF is great at doing that. So I think in terms of graduation actually I’m not even aware that they’ve been protesting it right now but I’ve been in my own little bubble just trying to escape this place but yeah it’s kind of interesting even though that I’m sure we support it I know from talking to Anthony Rojas last time he was encouraging students not to go to the larger, the larger graduation ceremony which I’m not going to. It’s interesting because I’ve spoken to a lot of Black students and a lot of them are making excuses to go forgetting the reason why we’re not going and that should really nullify any reason you have to go. The active racism that occurred in this campus, that was never ever called out as racism, that was never handled to the point that the Black community should have been satisfied with I believe that’s probably what you were talking about like they’re probably protesting about it, encouraging students not to go, boycotting it. Will it work? I will be honest with you, I don’t think so because the excuses I’ve been hearing are that people want to be or Black students want to be with their sorority sisters you know their fraternity brothers, they all want to be together.





They want to take pictures together, this is the only time they can all be together. Another excuse I heard was that this is the time you get to hear President Fuchs speak. This is the real like commemoration of your certificates and honestly it just hurts me because it’s all like okay but we’re doing this you’re supposed to be protesting or boycotting because of what happened and it seems like this Black community is so quick to have amnesia when a racist incident happens. So, in terms of that whole incident, me personally, I never intended to go ‘cause I guess I’ve stayed true to myself, I’ve never forgotten what happened in May last year and I’m not gonna go to a larger ceremony that was supposed to remedy a racist act on campus like I don’t care how flashy it is. I don’t care what author they ask to come speak. I don’t care if it’s the only time I’m going to be around like my friends quote and quote no. No.

	B:	You’re not walking either?



	M:	Yeah no no no I’m good I’m good. It’s funny cause this is when I’m finally gonna adopt that mentality of I’m going to get my degree and go. That’s exactly what I’m gonna do for graduation, I’m gonna go to the smaller ceremony with my family, have name be called, get the individual recognition I need and go because I still remember what happened and I’m not going to sell out or find an excuse to go there.

	B:	I saw I don’t know if the university has ever done this because I’ve seen this so I don’t know if it’s like new but I saw a few days ago there was like an event they posted that’s like an outdoor thing where they’re encouraging the graduates to come out. I don’t know if that was like prompted by—





	M:	I think it’s encouraging students to go. B:	Yeah.

	M:	It is. No I’ve seen a big push encouraging students to go like the free pictures, the—

	B:	So I wonder if NAACP UF had an impact on that like I don’t know if that’s like the university’s response to like get people hyped about it, I don’t know. I just thought it was interesting because I’ve never seen like them promote an event where they’re like hey graduating class of so and so come out for—

	M:	Yeah it’s too obvious that’s it’s just encouraging students to go and students are going.

	B:	I think if it is then it speaks to the impact of NAACP if that is related but I don’t know.

	M:	Yeah, I hope so. Like I’m not sure what they’re doing right now. I really hope that they’re being vocal on this matter, I’m sure that they are but it’s just interesting to see how students are really falling, especially Black students, are falling for it and just going. They forgot what happened so they’re going, they can go, I’m not gonna go. I’m good.

	B:	Is there anything else you’d like to talk about that maybe we didn’t talk about?



	M:	I would say this even though my experience was extremely difficult here it was so hard. It was unprecedented I think, I don’t think anyone- I don’t know if anyone would do the same thing as I did. Definitely the level of consciousness I had put me in a different predicament, I always ask this you know this is the staple question that a lot of our saviors on this campus like to ask: would you let your





students go here? Would you let your kids go here? Every Black student will tell you no and they’ll walk away and they’ll say because it was racist and you know even though they don’t expand on that I actually will say yes. I want my kids to go here because it’s an awakening, it prepares you for the real world. The real world is a predominantly White institution, the real world is UF so had I went to Howard I would’ve not been aware of my identity to the best possibility that I could so coming here is the real real. You learn that you’re Black, you are [inaudible at 41:59] and it makes you stronger, you know you’re able to go into the real world because you wen tot a predominantly White institution that was a simulation for the real world. So I honestly would say like I would love for my kids to go here, to a predominantly White institution. I know it’s not gonna be easy, I know it’s not gonna be you know all peaches and cream. It’s going to be tough like I said I went through it here big time like in every possible way but I survived and I made it and it made me stronger so yeah I encourage Black students to come here.

	B:	Is there anything else you want to talk about? M:	That’s it.

	B:	You sure?



	M:	Yeah.



	B:	Alright well thank you. M:	No thank you.





[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Amanda Lorenzo, October 22, 2019



Audit-edited by:

Sandra Romero

December 8, 2020

Final edited by:

Sandra Romero,

September 28, 2021