AAHP 325; Fields; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu









AAHP 325 Shawn Fields

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Ayana Flewellen on January 11, 2014 17 minutes | 7 pages









































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 325

Interviewee: Shawn Fields Interviewer: Ayana Flewellen Date: January 11, 2014



	AF:	Hi, it is January 11, 2014 and I am in Quebec City, in Quebec, Canada with Miss Shawn Fields. Thank you so much for sitting with me today.

	SF:	Thank you for having me.



	AF:	So I guess we can dive right into it. Can you start by just telling me when and where you were born?

	SF:	I was born December 12, 1989 in Detroit, Michigan.



	AF:	In Detroit, Michigan nice. I guess we can really just start with your first encounter with Archaeology, Anthropology, when were you first exposed to this? As a field of study or as an interest?

	SF:	I guess it would be my sophomore year at Howard, was I guess when I really saw it as a field. I initially went to Howard as a History major, but after taking a class I didn’t really like it. I had a scholarship at the time, so the scholarship was like “you have to be out in four years.” So basically I looked at what I could take, what I could major in within the College of Arts and Sciences that seemed interesting and that I could do in four years, and Anthropology was it. So I took my first classes that semester, and I really liked it.

	AF:	Can you tell me a bit more about that first, initial class that you took?



	SF:	I think I took two classes that semester. I took Intro to Cultural Anthropology and Intro to Archaeology. I liked both a lot, Intro to Cultural Anthropology kind of gave academic names to stuff that I was thinking about. Intro to Archaeology was just really interesting to learn about archaeology, and we got to do small projects with archaeology, I was like “Oh! This is not bad."





	AF:	Can you tell me a bit about those small projects?



	SF:		Well one of them was that we created a map, we were just supposed to go someplace on campus and basically do a—like make a map of the area, scientifically. So like have a center and then that type of stuff, that’s the big one. And then just small in-class essays, in-class projects—I’m sure a lot of you do this, they give you the different pots or whatever or different pictures of pots and it’s like “which one came first?” or “can you make a sequence?” So, that type of stuff.

	AF:	Was there anything about Archaeology that kind of just really stuck with you when you took that initial class?

	SF:	I don’t know, I can’t really remember [laughter]. I think, I liked the professor a lot, Dr. Eleanor King—she’s still at Howard—I really liked her. I thought it was interesting, what you could do with Archaeology. ‘Cause I didn’t really know a lot about Archaeology, but looking at Maya stuff or helping create museums, and helping with heritage management really interested me.

	AF:	And you mentioned that you had stayed at Howard for two years— SF:	Yup

	AF:	Where did you go after?



	SF:	I transferred to Wayne State University in Detroit, Michigan. Yeah, I transferred after my sophomore year.

	AF:	After your sophomore year? SF:	Yup





	AF:	Was there a huge difference of being at Wayne State versus, obviously coming from an HBCU, then can you just talk a little bit about that?

	SF:	Yeah, I think [Laughter] the HBCU was—I really liked Howard because it was the first time—I went to a really small school from preschool to eighth grade, there was twelve of us in the class. So that was really small, and then after that I went to high school in a really White school. So, this was the first time I really got to speak and get to know a lot of African American or Black people from different backgrounds and that really was helpful, and learn more about my culture and history not only in the classroom but just talking to the different students there.

	AF:	Did you find that there was a difference, I guess in the way that anthropology was taught, at Howard versus Wayne?

	SF:	Yeah, Wayne State’s a public State University so they definitely had a lot more resources than Howard [Laughter]. They definitely had a lot more resources than Howard, and therefore they had a lot more classes. I really liked Wayne State for that reason, just because I was able to take a more wide variety of classes that I didn’t even know you could have, ‘cause when I went to Howard they only had the basics, like intros.

	AF:	That must have been nice, what other topics were you exposed to at Wayne State?

	SF:	Even though I was introduced to Historical Archaeology at Howard, Wayne State’s really where I really got to see the breadth of it. I got to take a Historical Archaeology course. I took an urban Archaeology course. I learned about contemporary Archaeology, took a specialized course in Native American





Archaeology, a Linguistic Anthropology course—I didn’t get to take that there— but it was nice. [Laughter]

	AF:	In terms of your own interest during your undergraduate tenure, were you pulling from other disciplines at all? Like taking elective courses in other departments?

	SF:	Not really, I mean I took my electives freshman year, so by the time I got to start doing Archaeology I don’t think I really was applying it, necessarily. One of the classes that I took my senior year I really liked a lot of the articles, and wanted to try and incorporate them into my work or in the future, is there was a Contemporary Africa course, so we read a lot of articles about post-colonial Africa and everyday Africa. So we learned about stuff like how colonial powers tried to regiment space and time to change the African population to conform to European ideas. So that was really interesting and I really liked that.

	AF:	So when you finished at Wayne State, what kind of facilitated this next step into you now being a graduate student at the University of Illinois, the Urbana- Champaign campus?

	SF:	Well, I really liked Archaeology and definitely being at Wayne State—the year I transferred was the first year Dr. Krysta Ryzewski came to Wayne State. So I was really happy that I got to really know her, she really took me under her wing to tell me more about Historical Archaeology. After those three years I realized that’s something that I would like to pursue as a career.

	AF:	Yeah it’s always nice when you have a faculty member who acts as a mentor for you.





	SF:	So that’s basically why I applied to grad school. The reason I went to Urbana- Champaign is because I got a fellowship [Laughter]. I wasn’t sure if I wanted to do a PhD program, Urbana-Champaign was the only PhD program I applied to, ‘cause I knew Dr. Fennell from New Philadelphia. The other places I applied were Master’s programs, because I was really nervous, but ultimately I couldn’t refuse.

	AF:	Have you done a field school? SF:	Uh-huh.

	AF:	Were you at New Philadelphia with— SF:	Yeah.

	AF:	Was that your first one?



	SF:	No, when I was at Howard I did the Palaeoarchaeological Project which basically—it has several different components but the main component was looking for, and looking at, Buffalo soldiers as they were chasing the Apaches in the Southwest, and looking for evidence of the events that happened. So that was my first, Archaeological field school. New Philadelphia was a lot bigger, it was a bigger operation, so I got a lot more in depth—in New Mexico we only did a lot of surveying, but in New Philadelphia was the first time I really did a lot of excavation. Then I did some projects afterwards in Detroit with the excavated at Roosevelt Park, for our class, and then I did a speakeasy project over the summer.

	AF:	I know here, with the Society of Black Archaeologists, you know Justin Dunnavant at night we have like our listserv that has the numbers of who we’ve





been able to really account for in terms of Black Archaeologists. Could you tell me a bit more about your experience just being a Black woman in this field, do you find a lot of other Black female Archaeologists, or students of color really in general in terms of in your classes? During your field school experiences? I’m sure the one through Howard University versus New Philadelphia because they were through different institutions. [Laughter] Could you just talk a bit about those differences, those experiences?

	SF:	I think I felt that in New Mexico we were all people of color who were excavating so there was I think six of us, one was a guy and five others were girls, gals, ladies [Laughter}. And that was really nice, I think it was the first time for most of us so really it was a pretty good environment, we were all supportive of each other. And there’s also the liaison from the parks and recs service was a man of color, so it was a pretty supportive environment and everyone was really enthusiastic and not too hard but pushed us to do stuff. New Philadelphia was also pretty diverse actually, besides being that there was two other Black females in the Archaeological program, and then there was a Native American and Asian lady, girl, at the program too. It was definitely not as diverse as Howard, but there’s definitely a presence of people of color there, and Dr. Ivy Davies was there. But yeah besides that, it was just really White, the town was White, people in the New Philadelphia committee or group were White too. But everyone seemed pretty supportive of the project, so I don’t really have any bad experiences with that per say.





	AF:	And can you tell me a bit about your interest now as a graduate student, is this your first year?

	SF:	This is my first year. I just finished my first semester. AF:	How’d that go?

	SF:		It went okay [Laughter]. I guess it could have gone better, I’m still acclimating to grad school. One of the issues, I guess, was that it’s really White at UIUC right now, well not necessarily White but there’s not a lot of Black people. Because there’s the Koreanists there, so there’s a group of Korean nationals and Korean- Americans there. They have several Latino scholars there, and there’s a Filipino anthropologist that’s there, so there’s different people of color there but there’s not a lot of Black people solely in the Anthropology Department. So that was a change, especially ‘cause it’s so isolated from everywhere, it’s two hours from Chicago, it’s two hours from St. Louis, two hours from Indianapolis, and Champaign itself is not really not diverse either. So, that was definitely a change, because the last places I lived were Detroit and D.C. [Laughter]. It’s definitely a change to get used to. What was the question?

	AF:	No, you answered [Laughter]. SF:	Oh okay.

AF:  And then in terms of—I guess not in terms but rather in celebration of being at the 2004 SHA, Society for Historical Archaeology Conference, is this your first time attending?

	SF:	Yeah.



	AF:	Nice, how do you like it? Thus far what have been your experiences?





	SF:	I like it overall. I can see the potential of it of course, ‘cause of the Arctic vortex not everyone’s here and the weather outside’s horrible, it’s horrible. But the people I’ve met so far have been really great, and I’ve got to meet a lot of new people and hear a lot of new ideas and I really like this.

	AF:	That’s great, that’s great. Do you have any other final commentary or thoughts? SF:	I think the Society of Black Archaeologists is great [Laughter].

	AF:	Not as a side plug, but thank you so much for coming out to our meeting today.



It’s really nice always to have more Black Archaeologists obviously join the association. Can you just speak a little bit on your experience just with the number of Black attendees that you’ve seen?

	SF:	I think, it was more than I expected, I guess? [Laughter] Not I guess the big names, and especially with students, it was really nice to see lots of people come out, especially because of the weather, that there’s such a relatively large presence archaeologists here it’s just really cool.

	AF:	Well thank you so much for sitting down with me today, I greatly appreciate it. SF:	Yeah, no problem. [Laughter]

[End of Interview]





	Audit edited by:	Juanita Duque, April 17, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 24, 2019