AAHP 172; Thomson; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 172 Madeline Edwards Thompson African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Marna Weston on April 30, 2011 1 hour, 17 minutes | 37 pages



Abstract: Madeline Edwards Thompson is a White woman who grew up in High Springs, Florida, and she describes a number of the businesses and the culture of the area as she experienced it growing up. She also discusses some of the Black people who interacted with her and her family during Jim Crow segregation. Ms. Thompson insists that she does not remember there being a tense separation between races, though she does remember tensions during school integration and she describes those in detail. She also talks about other aspects of High Springs currently, and ruminates on how it has and hasn’t changed.





[Keywords: African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Integration]





SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.



SS.912.A.2.5 Jim Crow laws



































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 172

Interviewee: Madeline Edwards Thomson Interviewer: Marna Weston

Date of Interview: April 30, 2011





	W:	Okay. This is Marna Weston for the Sam Proctor Oral History Project on April 30, 2011 and I’m again in the home of Ms. Madeline Thompson. Thank you, Ms.

Madeline for letting me come over and speak with you.



	T:	I’m glad to have you.



	W:	It’s a wonderful day and we are sitting in the front part of the house. It’s facing the sunny area and facing the street so we’re a getting a chance to get a little sunlight in here today. Just to give us an update, Winston has returned.

	T:	Winston has and have you seen him since he? —



	W:	I have seen him since he returned. Winston is Ms. Madeline’s cat. He escaped and went on a one-month tour of the world. He’s a lot skinnier now but he’s back.

	T:	Yeah, he is and I have him outside for a little while. W:	You must be very relieved to have him back.

	T:	I am. At first he was very affectionate, but now he’s getting back to his own tricks.



He doesn’t want to spend that much time with me. [Laughs] But he does, he spends a lot of time with me. He was babyish when he got back, though. Thought he was a big man when he left. Now he knows what the world’s like out there without me.







	W:	Now when we left off, we had a last interview, we talked about your life here in High Springs and just if you could remind those who will be listening of your date of birth.

	T:	January 16, 1922.



	W:	Okay, and how long have you lived in High Springs?



	T:	Ever since I was an infant. We came here from Georgia but I was just in mother’s arms.

	W:	I thought that we could talk today about some of the significant families in High Springs. You seem to know so many of the children and the grandchildren of people that lived here in the past and maybe we could talk about some of the background folks that owned businesses in the downtown area. Is there anybody in particular that you could start with? Any families you think of?

	T:	Well, there were several who were really good friends and when you lived this close together and you trade with them and you speak to them all the time— now it isn’t like that. It isn’t like that anymore. The only grocery store we have now is out at Winn Dixie and I have to ride out there. I don’t know if I told you about Ms. Vaughn that lived down the street. She was old and she walked by here going to town. Did I tell you about that?

	W:	No, ma’am. You said Ms. Vaughn? What is her full name?



	T:	I don’t remember. Her husband was an engineer at the railroad and they lived up two or three houses down, which their house is not there anymore, but they lived







right down there and she had a sidewalk all the way to the doctor, the drug store, the post office, those are the major things. And I said to my little girl, who was two or three years old, well, about three I guess, I said, “Look, Bonnie, there goes Ms. Vaughn. Just think she can’t drive anymore. She’s a very old lady, nice lady.” I said, “She can walk though, and she’s going to walk from her house all the way and get anything she needs. She can get groceries,” ‘cause there were two or three grocery stores downtown. “She can go to the drugstore and doctor. She can get her medicine and go to the doctor and the post office.” All on that one side and then the other side had stores, all kinds of stores, too.

	W:	Now we don’t have a grocery store in downtown High Springs anymore.



	T:	No. And this is what will kill you. I said, “I can do that when I get old.” [Laughs] W:	There’ll be the same thing.

	T:	Right. Now there’s nothing down there that I can use.



	W:	What were the grocery stores that were in downtown High Springs? T:	Where were they?

	W:	Or, what were their names and where were they located?



	T:	Oh, okay. One was in our church, Methodist Church. He was Mr. Small. They had one daughter and she was in my class at school. And the lady, Mrs. Maude Small was very nice, sophisticated lady. She worked at home but it was a nice thing to go to her home and get our china and silver when we got married. She







was working for a jewelry store in Gainesville. She had everything and maybe you saw it over in Gainesville but she would get it for you and have it at the shower and she was really nice. Of course, he had the store downtown. That is where our barber shop is now. It was the first store on the right hand side going into Main Street. Those people were there and then of course the post office.

You didn’t have to put an address on it. All you had to put on there was High Springs. You didn’t have to put a box number or anything. The people who worked at the post office knew everybody in town and you just got the mail in there for you, didn’t have to put an address.

	W:	Was the post office where it is now?



	T:	No, downtown. Right down here on the sidewalk. Right next to the bank. Mr. McCall. That’s where the bank’s always been. It was Mr. G.W. McCall’s bank, private bank and then it just grew and became bank after bank. Different ones.

	W:	It’s Bank of America now. T:	Mmhm.

	W:	So the post office was right next door.



	T:	Uh-huh. That’s my bank and I’ve always been there. But it was Mr. G.W. McCall.



He had one son. That was his family. And his wife and he had asthma but he went in service and he died from asthma. Some people thought he died in combat but he didn’t and Mr. McCall was never the same again. He said, “I don’t want the $10,000.” He wanted his son back. So pitiful.







	W:	The $10,000 was the insurance that the servicemen had. T:	Right.

	W:	The postmaster. Did you know who the people who ran the post office were? T:	Well, I know who worked there but I don’t know who actually was the head of it. W:	Okay. Who were some of the people that worked there?

	T:	Well, let’s see. It was Ms. Thompson with a P. I’m Thomson without a P and she was Thompson with a P. She had a daughter and a son. In fact, the man that I married, Cecil, used to go with one of her daughters.

	W:	Before he wised up.



	T:	[Laughs] She was the main one in there but I don’t remember who the postmaster was.

	W:	So we had a grocery store in the Methodist Church in Main Street. We had the bank. We had the post office. What else was on Main Street? What other businesses and what families were associated with them?

	T:	Well, the Barry’s had the drug store and Dr. Barry handled the medicine— I can’t think of—

	W:	Druggist.



	T:	Druggist.



	W:	Pharmacist.







	T:	Pharmacist. He was the pharmacist. He owned the drug store and he was the pharmacist and he was just wonderful. He knew everybody and he loved everybody and he was so good to everyone. He had a son, Ed. And he wanted Ed to be a pharmacist also but he wasn’t interested in going to college. All he wanted to do was play the drums. So he just stayed in High Springs and worked in the drug store but he didn’t want to be a pharmacist and try to take over after his daddy died. He and Ms. Barry, was just a homemaker, she didn’t work anywhere. They lived on this same road except instead of northeast it was southeast, not too far when you cross Main Street. They lived down there on the right by Skeet— we call it Skeet’s Corner. That was a famous place down there. She had a filling station and we had a bus that came through here so when the railroad was all taken away from us going to Lakeland— that’s where I went to college, Florida Southern— I came home on the bus. I’d have to come home on the bus instead of the train. So that was that. Let’s see. We had at one time— and this was Mary Lewis’ dad— had his Chevrolet place right there on the sidewalk.

	W:	There was a Chevrolet dealership on Main Street?



	M:	Uh-huh. It used to be in Alachua and he brought it over here and it was downtown at first and after a while he built the place out here—

	W:	Where Jim Douglas— M:	Uh-huh. Where it is now.







	W:	What was the name of the man that had the dealership? M:	Jim Douglas.

	W:	Oh, that was him. But the old one was on Main Street? T:	Uh-huh.

	W:	So Jim Douglas had a Main Street dealership and moved it over here. Do you know the Douglas family well?

	T:	Yep. Mary Lewis. Even though they lived in Alachua she went to school and high school in Alachua. I knew her. We knew a lot of people in Alachua. That’s only seven miles, you know, the schools and all. We’d get together. Rivals, mostly and I knew them all. We knew each other. Let’s see. We had furniture stores. We even had a feed store downtown and that was Mr. and Mrs. Lindsey and their daughter married who became later vice principal out at Santa Fe, Everett, was the name. Let’s see. We had several stores uptown. We had Ms. Summers’s store, we had Robert’s, we had Mr. Small. That’s three right there uptown, two on that side and then when you turned the corner, there was Ms. Summers down there with the great big nice store.

	W:	What kind of store was Ms. Summers’s store? T:	It was a grocery store.

	W:	Okay so there are two grocery stores right on Main Street?







	T:	Two on Main Street and one around the corner, there, when you turned to go down the other sidewalk.

	W:	Now where they built here in town this new— where the hospice is and some business offices— that used to be where Vogel’s Market was. Vogel’s Food Store? It was a meat store.

	T:	Where the hospice was, that was a grocery store.



	W:	It was Vogel’s for a long time. Had it been other grocery stores, too?



	T:	It changed a couple of times. Let’s see, I can’t remember the— oh, Caesar Calish. I’m thinking of him. He was on the other side. I forgot about him. He had this huge store and he had fresh meat and he was a butcher and all that. Oh, I traded there. I used to stop out in front and send out my little five-year-old in there to shop for me. They get me just what I wanted.

	W:	Was that directly across the street from where Vogel’s was?



	T:	No, it’s on this same street. It’s on my street right here except it’s across Main Street. You know we got a lot of stores down there.

	W:	Now where these antique shops are on Main Street, there was a building— I looked at some pictures from the 1960s or early 1970s where it had Suwannee written on the top of the building on the right hand side, on this side of the street, where we are. Do you recall what any of those businesses were? On the opposite side of the street from the funeral home. Opposite side of the street from where Vogel’s was. The sidewalk right downtown. If we went up here to the







corner and took a right past the house where Winston was under, and you were walking down toward 441, what was on that side of the street right there with those businesses?

	T:	Okay, there was a meat store on the very end. A butcher. And he had all kinds of nice meats.

	W:	What was his name?



	T:	I don’t know. In fact, it’s been so long ago, I can’t remember. Because I was like five years old and lived across from the theater in a great big house that had a porch that went all the way around. But I remember the meat store there. Then, Ms. Summers had the store, I told you. She also owned that property and she had a café. It was called a café. But there were tourists who came on this road because we didn’t have the interstate. This is a state highway. And so we had a lot of tourists and they would stop there and you might have seen this store— it has a balcony up there.

	W:	Yes ma’am, I’ve seen it.



	T:	Well, she had rooms up there to rent and she had a café at the bottom of the store. That was nice. My sister and I played with her little girl, Catherine. So, that was there.

	W:	Has it always been a funeral home down here in downtown where the funeral home is? Across the street from the Presbyterian Church, on the opposite side of the street?







	T:	Oh. No, that was the man who ran the town. H. Mack L. Grady. W:	Really, that was his home?

	T:	Yes.



	W:	Wow.



	T:	H. Mack L. Grady ran this town and he wouldn’t let any kind of business come here. There was a shirt factory that wanted to come here and give people jobs. He didn’t want— if he were alive right now we wouldn’t have any of the new things we have like stores and all that. He just kept us pinned down. He didn’t want it to grow, I guess. He just wanted it to be a little country town. But he ran the town. Anybody that you ask in town that remembers way back they know Mr. Grady. And his son married a pretty girl from Alabama, and you might have seen a pretty brick home not too far from here, which you have to leave this room to go over. I don’t know how to tell you where it is, but it’s really pretty up on a hill out there, not too far from this main road. They brought the bricks from Alabama to build that house because they have clay, and bricks are cheaper than wood, but it’s a pretty brick home. That was Mr. Grady’s daughter in law, Helen. And you know, it was pitiful. She was a beautiful girl. Her car caught on fire when she was coming home from Alabama, I guess. And she burned up.

	W:	In the car?







	T:	In the car. Her jewelry was on the ground. Her family jewelry. Ms. Grady and Helen were both big workers in the women’s club. I’ve been in there for 50 years, the women’s club.

	W:	Has the women’s club always been right where it is now?



	T:	Right where it is. New Century Women’s Club. It was a lot different then. W:	How was it different?

	T:	Well, for one thing, we had committees that cooked. We didn’t bring a covered dish. The committee furnished the food. Each one had a part to do. Like on holidays, they’d bake chicken, turkeys, and things like that. And one was Ms. Rawls, who her husband was a lawyer downtown. That was another space he took up, Mr. Rawls. There was only, like, one or two lawyers and he got a lot of business then. And all these ladies really took things seriously. They wanted the club to be different from the way it is now, I can tell you that. People didn’t go down there in shorts and flip flops. We’ve had some new members that do that and that’s not the way it used to be. You wore your best things, I’ll just put it that way. You were dressed like you were going to church. Well now they don’t dress to go to church, but back then we did. [Laughter] Things are too different. It’s just pitiful. But anyway, it was different. It was interesting and I loved to be in the club then. But sometimes now I just played hooky. It’s just not satisfying to me too much anymore. They’re still trying to hold out and keep it going.







W:  Now across the street over here there’s a strip mall where there’s Gator Q and all these different things. I guess that hasn’t always been there. Just right across the street up from the community theater, up on the left hand side, there’s a little strip mall with different businesses?

T:   Oh, I see. It’s that little Mexican place?



W:   Not even where that is. Just right up here, across the street.



	T:	Oh, under those big trees. No, they haven’t been there. You know who used to live up there? My husband. When he was, like, ten years old. There was a two- story house there and she was a widow when her little boy— let’s see, Henry was like ten— when her husband was killed. He took pneumonia. We had a pneumonia episode here. It was a lot. Everybody had pneumonia.

	W:	Spanish flu?



	T:	Flu. Flu. That’s what it was. And they had so many deaths here. And Mr.



Thomson was one of them. He was with the railroad. He was from Waycross, Georgia. And they ran in here from Waycross, but he lived here. And you know where that café is, right by me, down there? That’s my husband’s home. That’s where Ms. Bernard, she later married Mr. Bernard. She was Ms. Thomson then, but they lived up there first and she had boarders. In the two-story house. And she would take in boarders to earn a living for the children. And then later her mother, I think, lived in that house and she passed away. I guess that’s when they moved in it. ‘Cause since I’ve known him, he was at that house down there







and everybody down there passed away and they sold it, and that’s what it’s become now, restaurants.

	W:	Now the house that I live in, across the street, has been called the McDonald House. Can you tell me about the McDonald’s?

	T:	Yeah. They were living there when we built this house. I’ve always known Ms. McDonald. She was also in club and in the Methodist church. I knew her well. She had a daughter. Her last child was a daughter, Marybeth, who lives now in Gainesville. And she was the baby. But anyway, she had, I think it was three boys and an older girl. The first child was a girl but she never came home and I don’t think they ever had anything to do with her. I wouldn’t have known if I saw her. I never did see her over there. But anyway, she had three boys and they were all in service. One was a preacher, the oldest one, and then Jerry was killed in service. Killed overseas. Would you believe that a family in Holland buried him and later on after the war they brought him home? Jerry. He was in the air force. And it’s so funny that my husband was staying with some people in Holland, too. And they were so good to him. But you know, they named a tulip after him. That’s a tulip place, Holland, you know.

	W:	After your husband or after Jerry? T:	No, after Jerry, the one they buried.

	W:	He must have done something very special that those people thought so much of him.







	T:	I guess. He was hiding there, or staying there during part of the mission, I guess.



I guess they must have really liked him. They did. They didn’t want to see something happen to his body and they just buried him. Then later on, that was pitiful, they brought him home by train. Met him right down there at the shop. I miss that railroad. I miss that train going across the Columbia Springs River.

They tore that down. That was a pretty picture. The train going across the river.



	W:	What was it that you liked about it?



	T:	The scenery. And just, trains fascinate me anyway. It was up high. It wasn’t on the ground, it was up in the air and here was this big river and here was this train, had their little track going across the river and then the background was pretty trees. I don’t know why somebody didn’t take— I should have taken a picture of it. I’ve been just too lazy to do anything, I guess. But I’ve got a picture up here. I miss that shop. I miss my husband going to work. While he was working down there he only had twenty minutes to eat. We were just married and I lived in an apartment over there and I’d have to cook and fix his dinner and take it to him and he had twenty minutes to eat it. Yeah, this was a thriving little country town. They did things a lot differently. Bonnie, my daughter, and I were just talking about it the other day how they, I think it was Christmas, they’d have the children down at the park and they’d give them little bags of candy and fruit, you know?

They thought that was something even though they could get it at home. Go down to the park and Santa Claus would be there and then they’d hand out these little bags of candy. They don’t do things like that anymore. I don’t ever even see any children because it’s too dangerous now. They can’t get out and play







anymore. Shoot. You could just go anywhere and you’d see children all over the yard and on their bikes and tricycles and skates and everything else. And now you don’t ever see the children.

	W:	This building across the street that’s the community theater now— T:	That was a Church of Christ.

	W:	So what can you tell about that building?



	T:	Well, I know that the McCleod’s belonged to— you know what happened. This tent church came here and got these members to join the Church of Christ. We’d never even heard of it and they had a lot of our important people and they joined it so they built that church. Church of Christ. I just want to say what they believe in and that’s their belief, but that’s alright. That’s the only church theirs is if you want to go to heaven, according to them. But I don’t have— they can believe what they want to, I’m not saying anything bad about it if that’s the way they believe. And I have visited over there. Ms. Galbraith, who was an important teacher at our school when I was there invited me and naturally, I’m right here and yeah. Cecil and I worked over there at the church several times for Ms.

Galbraith. They don’t have music though. They had music but they didn’t have any piano. They just sang. Somebody led the music. And they can sing, see, they really can sing and they just didn’t have music to sing by and I miss that. But anyway, we went while they were having a revival and then we’d go over there to please Ms. Galbraith. I didn’t want to refuse her invitation because I see her every day at school, I did. So, she sort of ran the school. [Laughs] You know







there’s always somebody that takes over. I’m not the aggressive type, but I don’t mind if somebody wants to take over. Somebody has to.

	W:	Now what about this First Presbyterian Church, the block over?



	T:	That’s the oldest church I think, besides the Episcopal. That has always been here and I have several friends in that church, too. In fact, even though these McDonald’s were all Methodists, they had two preachers in that family. When the oldest one came and moved back here, he became preacher at the Presbyterian Church and he was brought up in the Methodist. So he was the Presbyterian preacher for a long time.

	W:	Now they must be pretty close if you can be raised a Methodist and go ahead and preach in the Presbyterian Church.

	T:	Right.



	W:	Have you ever visited that church?



	T:	I have. Bonnie’s sister in law got married— they lived here for a while, the boy she married, the Vann’s. The daddy was something in the railroad. He was a supervisor of something. They weren’t here but eighteen months. That’s when she met Bo and then they moved on to South Carolina. That’s where the office was then for the railroad. Now it’s Jacksonville. So they wound up in Jacksonville. But I went around the bush now, I don’t know what I was supposed to answer then.

	W:	We were just talking about the Presbyterian Church, had you visited before.







	T:	Yes. While she was here— she was off at college— when she came home she got married to a boy in the Navy and they got married in the Presbyterian Church.

	W:	One of the things about living in the South is that we all live so close to each other and everybody knows generally the business of other people but also in a lot of ways the society is a little divided— Black and White. For a long time, there were kind of two separate worlds. When you were growing up, did you kind of feel that?

	T:	No.



	W:	Did you family have good communications with all your neighbors? T:	Absolutely.

	W:	Who were some of the Black families that your family had knowledge of?



	T:	The man that most for me is a coach— he’s a retired coach from Mebane. Now he’s retired, he wants to earn extra money so he mows for me. His wife was the daughter of the lady who worked for us. She was just like a member of the family. Idella Bess. She was very, very good. We loved her. I didn’t have any qualms with any Blacks. They were just like everybody else to me.

	W:	When you said Ms. Bess worked for you, what did she do? T:	She helped Momma in the house. That’s all.

	W:	So did some cooking and laundry and things like that.







	T:	Mmhm. Yeah, she helped her. Momma, she wasn’t sick or anything but she just wanted everything done all the time and she didn’t want us to do it. She wouldn’t even let us wash dishes. Winnette and me, that’s my sister. She wouldn’t even let us wash the dishes. She did that. But then things like helping momma wash. You know, back then, you didn’t have a washing machine.

	W:	That’s true, you had the scrub board.



	T:	They didn’t come in until— I can remember right now when daddy got one. He put it in the garage. We used to have to wash— you know what? Momma would wash a lot of things and I guess Idella helped her, wash our clothes, our dresses and things. Momma had a black iron pot out there that they boiled the white things— you know the sheets and all those.

	W:	I did that growing up with my grandma.



	T:	And so she helped momma with that because she had kidney trouble a lot and she didn’t need to do everything. It was hard. It was not like throwing some clothes in the washing machine now. I don’t have a dishwasher but I don’t have that many dishes and I only had three in my family. So I don’t have a dishwasher but it wasn’t anything to wash our dishes. I had help. I have, ever since I’ve been here. Ever since Bonnie was born I’ve had help, until just recently. Let’s see.

Gosh, don’t tell me I forgot her name. She’s been here when Bonnie was a little ol’ thing. I haven’t seen her for so long. Let’s see. I don’t know. I’m old. I can’t think of it. But anyway. I thought of her like a family member. She helped me with Bonnie and helped me— I had two people and they cooked and did the







housework while I took care of Bonnie. I enjoyed taking care of my baby. I waited seven years to get her and when I got her I just wanted to take care of her. All the time. That little rascal could read before she ever went to school. I stayed out five years taking care of her because I wanted to see her grow up. I wanted to see her get ready for school. I wanted to help her get ready for school. She knew a lot. Momma did to me the same way. I didn’t even stay in the— I don’t know what they called it, primmer or something or other. They just put me right on up. And another thing, too, my birthday was— and they changed school a lot since I was little. Different times and— well, anyway, I was seven years old before I got to school and I already knew it so they just moved me on up. Momma taught me at home. She was a teacher. She went to Valdosta Teacher’s College and she taught in Georgia before she was married and then afterwards because they lived close to my daddy’s mother and she kept my sister Winnette until school was out. So she’s a good teacher and she taught us a lot.

	W:	Do you ever recall anything in the community that took place with Blacks and Whites that might not have been comfortable? Maybe things that people weren’t happy about?

	T:	I can’t think of anything in the town. It’s just at the school. That was a bad time.



And some of the parents got involved in that.



	W:	When the schools integrated?







T:  Yeah, before. And it all started with— they sent fifty at one time and then after that the Black kids didn’t want to come any more than the White ones wanted them to, but they came anyway. So at first, they didn’t get along.

W:   Is this over at Santa Fe?



	T:	They didn’t get along, but now they just all one. But I can remember. I was right out there when it started. It really started when Bonnie got out there and I was waiting to get a job after I stayed out five years. I wanted a job. I went back to university and got elementary on my certificate and then I taught six years at Bell, waiting for a place at Santa Fe because they only had one business teacher.

	W:	Now how did you get to Bell from here? Because there’s a lot of different ways that people go.

	T:	Turn right there at Post Springs Road and go all the way straight on down straight to 129 and turn left and you’re right there at Bell. And I also always had somebody riding with me, Mr. Hill, taught there. And we rode a lot together. And then one of the students used to go to Santa Fe, went to Bell and I took him for a while. So anyway, they had a terrible time at Santa Fe getting adjusted. The parents got involved and these men were riding around in their trucks with guns in the back of their windshield. I don’t know what all went on, I just stayed out of it. But anyway, I remember one time the Black students had— I still don’t know what happened, ‘cause I was teachin’. These two boys would come and get all the Blacks out of your class and take ‘em down to in front of the football thing, and they were all in a big circle and they had the principal right in the middle. I







don’t know what they did and I don’t wanna know because this one came to me, he was about six feet tall— and the doors were open because we didn’t have air conditioning at that time. I was standing near the door and I was just watchin’ my girls and waitin’ for ‘em if they needed me and all. Well May was the sweetest thing, she was the only one in there, but I had several after that. This was the beginning. It was May, I can’t remember her last name, but she was good in her work and she became— she worked at Shands as a, she typed those little earphones for the doctor. Yeah, she worked.

	W:	Medical transcriptions?



	T:	Yeah. My little May. And so he came into the door, she was right opposite. He was on the sidewalk, but he came to the door and he said, “Come on May.” And I said, “May ain’t goin’ anywhere.” Just like that. He said, “Come on May.” I said, “Did you hear me? May is not going, now you run along.” He left, too.

	W:	Who was that? Was that the principal?



	T:	No, one of the students. He was getting all the Black students out to take ‘em down there and they didn’t need to go down there to whatever they were fussin’ about. In a circle. I don’t even know what they were doin’, I didn’t ask anybody what they did. I didn’t want to know. But it wasn’t for us, it wasn’t for May. I was lookin’ out for her. And she did just fine and got a good job, I was so proud. I loved all my students, they still remember me. Any time they see me it’s, “Mrs. Thomson, Mrs. Thomson.” I see ‘em in the store, anywhere. Anywhere there’s something going on and they’re there. I might’ve told you this, I told somebody







‘cause I was pleased with it. I was in Winn Dixie one night and this girl came in and she had her husband with her and she said, “Mrs. Thomson do you ever watch TV?” I said, “Yeah I do.” She said, “Have you seen this— they’ll tell who meant a lot to you and did a lot for you?” I said, “No I haven’t seen it.” And she said, “Well I saw it and I said to my husband, ‘Ms. Thomson is the one that did that for me.’” [Laughs] She gave me credit for whatever she learned and did. And what I hate so badly, I just hate it, they don’t teach grammar in high school anymore. They might teach it in the seventh grade, I don’t know. It seems like Bonnie had it in the seventh, but they don’t. All they think about’s literature. So I taught grammar along with everything else. We had an English book that was in business. It’s business English, but we had things like good usage, good grammar and everything. It went almost from the beginning to tell you what all these words were: nouns, pronouns. They don’t know any of that. I’m just sorry for ‘em. You know what I do? I taught every Sunday— they used to come every Sunday, they don’t now anymore— but anyway, my two granddaughters would come and Bonnie and I we’d go over to Brown’s and eat. Or if it wasn’t Brown’s it’d be somewhere over there. Well they’d be back there. Well I taught English all the way from High Springs to the restaurant and I just wanted them to know that English that you speak, just to speak. So I would listen to TV and see what errors were made, if I could catch some errors, and so I’d bring them up and tell ‘em what happened, “Here’s what they said now that wasn’t right, this is what it should be.” And then sometimes I was listening to the preacher, I always listened to the preacher, but whenever they made and error I remembered it. I had been







before that, tellin’ everything I could think about English. And I said, when we got in the car I said, “Did you notice the preacher said so and so?” “Yes, yes ma’am.” But I hear errors all the time, they don’t care about English. People don’t care about English anymore, I don’t know why. It’s our language, we’re supposed to speak it correctly. And so, in my VOE I had English, I had three books in one and two in the other. One was an English book— both of them had English and then the other just had office practice and then I had two shorthand and office practice. I just really bared down on that English. I wanted them to know that you don’t lay down, you lie down. I mean it’s all kinds of things people say all the time. I probably haven’t practiced it enough, I probably have some myself now.

But I used to certainly keep up with it. I don’t have anybody— I have you— I don’t have any people to talk to anymore, my English’ll get poor.

	W:	You know, small town it’s so hard to keep up— well, there’s secrets everywhere, but small town when things happen people generally know about it. What they talk about quietly and privately about it is different.

	T:	And make up stuff as they go.



	W:	That’s true. So I’m curious, do you remember the first time you heard about anybody ever getting killed in High Springs? ‘Cause you know, small town, that would be kind of a scandal, I guess. Have there been things like that that have happened around here?

	T:	Yes. It was one really bad one. The city hall, I don’t know if you’ve heard about that.







	W:	No ma’am, I don’t think so.



	T:	Let’s see now, what were their names? I knew the boys, they lived right there in that two story house. Across from the restaurant.

	W:	Called the Painted Lady, as well as an antique shop.



	T:	Yeah, they lived there for a while. He was the policeman, this man was the policeman, I can’t even figure his name it’s been so long. They had two sons and one was in my class at school when I was a student. So he worked in the city hall. Well there was that house across from where we had our church, the Methodist church, there’s a house right over on the left. Ms. Bonnie Collins lived there, and she’s never been married, she was Ms. Bonnie Collins, but she was middle aged woman. Well she worked in the city hall. And then there was some man, I never did know who he was, he was Black. This policeman, I guess he was the head of it, I don’t know what came over him, but he decided to steal some money, a lot of money. So he was going to blame it on the Black man, and Ms. Bonnie Collins stepped in and caught him. He killed both of them, he shot both of them. Now that was a big thing in High Springs. Yes sir. See, he said that the Black man shot Ms. Bonnie and then he shot the Black man. That’s how he portrayed it, but they found out that wasn’t it. That was not it, they worked on that and they found out who it was. And I guess if he’s still living, he’s still at Raiford. I don’t think he ever got out because he killed two people, right there, over money.

	W:	Do you remember about what year that happened?







	T:	Oh let’s see. It might’ve been when I was a senior in high school. That was— when was that?

	W:	Might’ve been the [19]40s, early [19]40s?



	T:	1939. ‘Cause they moved, the wife and the two boys moved away from High Springs.

	W:	So tried to frame for murder? And he was the police chief? T:	Um-hm, yeah.

	W:	He was the chief of police. Oh, so that is a big deal. T:	Yes, sir.

	W:	Okay, wow.



	T:	That was a terrible, terrible thing here. And then, there was a station right there by where the cat was found— you know, my cat— there was a filling station right there and this man, I don’t know. People walk by there a lot, and his wife would stay down there with him a lot. Well, he claimed that this Black man was making waves with his wife. Making— what you call it?

	W:	Advances.



	T:	Yeah, to his wife. And he shot him. I mean, shot him right there. W:	Right in the street right up here?







	T:	Yes. You could get on my sidewalk and look down there and there was that poor man with a sheet over him on the ground.

	W:	Oh my gosh.



	T:	Now that hadn’t been— that wasn’t, the other things were the longest. But this one was not too long ago.

	W:	What [19]70s, [19]60s?



	T:	Probably.



	W:	Well, what happened? Did they— he just said the man made advances to his wife so he shot him dead in the middle of the street in the daytime?

	T:	Yeah. And they didn’t do anything to him. W:	Oh my gosh.

	T:	He went right on. Yeah, he went right on. W:	But right here at this corner in High Springs.

	T:	Right there, there was a filling station there. It’s not there now, but yeah. Um-hm. W:	In the daytime.

	T:	In the daytime. I saw it. I wouldn’t stop, I could see it from here. I see that white sheet over the man on the ground. Oh Lord, I’m telling you I don’t know the half of what went on in this town. There was a lot, but I didn’t get into it with anything. I stayed away from things.







	W:	Well now your husband being with the fire department, he must have seen some things I’m sure.

	T:	Oh I’m sure he did, yeah.



	W:	Were there any big fires around here that ever happened?



	T:	Oh yeah, right down there where all that space is by the hospice where people are parking, you know. That was a big Ford place.

	W:	Ford dealership?



	T:	Yeah. And Mr. Priest was one of the big— he was one of the first ones I remember there. The longmen and all. They had just a pretty shop there, they had a garage and a dealership for Ford. And I came home from school one day— now this hadn’t been too long ago, I taught at Bell you know, six years and then I started at Santa Fe. It doesn’t seem that long but I guess it has been— that place was on fire. It burned to the ground. The garages and all. Everything just burned up.

	W:	Did they say it was an accident or they just don’t know? T:	I don’t know what it is.

	W:	Just a fire.



	T:	I don’t know. I know Cecil could’ve answered all your questions, he knew everything about everything in this town. But I guess I just didn’t ask enough questions, I just took it for granted that that was what happened. But I didn’t know







anything about how or when, I just know that it was smokin’ when I got home from Bell. It was just burned to the ground.

	W:	So let’s see: a couple murders, a fire. Is there any kind of scandalous situation from the past you might happen to— not to gossip, but maybe something that happened that was just too big to ignore and everybody knew about it.

T:   [Laughter] Oh I don’t know about that, I can’t think of any right off. I don’t know, I’m sure there were plenty of ‘em. Everybody knew everybody else’s business. Except me, I didn’t want to know it.

W:   You let sleeping dogs lie.



	T:	People that think they know things, they make it up half the time. They just say what they imagine it was. They’re not sure of things. It’s best just not to talk and spread something that— you weren’t there how do you know unless you actually saw it? And I didn’t. I didn’t go to things like a lot of people. I didn’t go out and I didn’t go to parties, drinking parties and things like that. Not me.

	W:	I just think back upon what High Springs was and what it is now, what are your thoughts?

	T:	It doesn’t have the intrigue, the humanity, and the— what are some more good adjectives? Everybody knew everybody else and there were a lot of good people and some weren’t so good. But they cared about people and then they had to go take the school out. Every town needs its own school and it needs its own church. And then that made me mad when they took the church away from us







and built that one out on the highway. That doesn’t seem like church to me out there. I’ve been going to that church— Momma took us, walked, she couldn’t drive for a long time— we walked to that church every Sunday.

	W:	You’re talking about the Episcopal Church. T:	Methodist.

	W:	Pardon me, Methodist Church.



	T:	Where that other church is now that was our church. Methodist. It was so pretty and they kept it up so nice. But things, well, I don’t know if it’s just my age or what, I don’t know what it is, but it doesn’t have the sweetness it used to have. It had some rowdy things, too, but it was home, it felt like home. You felt a part of everything. Now I don’t feel a part of anything but the church. And I don’t like where it is. Everything that’s happened of importance has been in the other church, where members— Daddy was a Baptist but he’d go to the Methodist with us. My sister was married in the church, had a wedding there, and I was married in the church. Momma was a superintendent and the Sunday school teacher for years, and she was in the church when she died. We had her there. And I was married in the church, and Bonnie was married in the church. That same church down there. Everything you know. It’s just been everything, and now out here I don’t know. Little children would be on the sidewalk walking to church, Sunday school ‘round here. Now they have to be transported if they go to Sunday school, not many children go anymore. Down there it was just full of people.







	W:	Do you have any hopes for High Springs for the future? What would your hopes for her be?

	T:	I have hopes, but I don’t think it’ll ever reach ‘em. [Laughter] I think it’s gonna stay pretty much the same, it’s gonna stay the same. It’s just that nothing seems to be in the works— we finally got some sewers, I wish I hadn’t got one because my water bill this month is $101, can you believe it? It’s been bad. It was eighty- one to ninety-one one month. It was eighty something one month and it was ninety one something. Now it’s a hundred and one this month. And I don’t know whether the sewer went up or whether the water went up, but I know well I don’t use any hundred dollars’ worth of water. And that includes your garbage, too, but I think it stays the same. I don’t know. I don’t know what to hope for, I don’t think about it very much but different people want me to move. I’m not moving. I’ll be here until I pass away, I’m gonna stay right here. Lot of people have you know gone, left it. There’s more vacant houses than ever before. My hopes would be that people would come here and fix up their homes and try to live like a family and make the town nice to live in and be good to everybody and get along. I mean, that’s what I hope for. I do, I like everybody. I don’t have any enemies that I know of. I proud to be as able as I am to do things. I’m just— I try not just to be stagnant, but I do keep up with church things and I still drive to Jacksonville. I’ll probably be driving there pretty soon. I go to their birthdays and Christmas and Thanksgiving. Or anytime I want to, even though gas now has gone out of the world. [Laughter]. It cost me $63 to fill my car up the other day. I fill it up once a month and so this time it was $63. ‘Course you know I told you a spider bit me,







didn’t I? I was at the doctor’s and I had planned to get, I was getting’ low on gas. Well when I got out of the doctor’s office I started down then and I didn’t know if I was gonna make it. The red light came on for gas. So I hurried up and went down there and filled up. $63 and change. Now that, I was surprised Bonnie could come every week. I tell her not to, but she won’t listen to me. I don’t know what we’re going to do with her when I pass away. I just don’t know what’s gonna happen to her. Somebody’s gonna have to take over. I guess it’ll be Dianne, she’s my niece. [Phone ringing] Excuse me.

	W:	We talked an awful lot about High Springs this time, I hope that next time we speak we’ll get a chance to maybe talk about some of the music that you’ve liked, maybe the [19]40s.

	T:	Oh I took voice lessons. And my sister took piano. From the best teacher that this town has ever had. I don’t even know who teaches music anymore. The McCleod’s I told you about, they had boys they all took from her.

	W:	What was the name of this best music teacher ever? T:	Ms. Osteen.

	W:	Ms. Osteen, okay.



	T:	I took voice and my sister took piano.



	W:	Well I think this is a good place to wrap up this session, on behalf of our program I want to thank you again, the Sam Proctor Oral History Program, for adding to our Florida archives with your great knowledge of High Springs Ms. Madeline







Thomson. I like to finish the interview giving you the opportunity to say anything that you would like, and at the conclusion of your remarks that’ll finish the interview.

T:  Oh alright. I’ve enjoyed talking about what I can remember, but there’s so much more that I can’t even think about. But I’ve enjoyed thinkin’ you know, and talkin’ a little bit about the past and I hope I’ve said something that makes sense.

Sometimes it’s easy to remember and think about things that happen, then you forget it. But I wouldn’t want to live anywhere else. I’ve enjoyed livin’ here. And I think we’ve talked before about Blue Springs and Post Springs didn’t we? We used to have a good time at Post Springs and Blue Springs was almost like an ocean, you know, the beach. The little children had fun around the beginning of the water down there. It was good, you have picnics, it was a good place to have picnics. We used to believe in picnics, that’s something I don’t think many families do anymore. Maybe they don’t have enough family to do it, but we had- Cecil had a lot of family. We all got together and fixed something and all went out to Blue Springs and had a picnic table, but your stuff on it and everybody went swimming. There were pigs out there runnin’ around. And then Post Springs was good for dancin’, they had a pavilion out there and you could dance there. I loved to dance, I’m tellin’ you right now. Cecil didn’t, but I sure did, so I didn’t get to dance much after I left college. I danced in high school and I danced in college, but he didn’t dance, so. They had this lake out in front of Southern College, that’s where I went, and my boyfriend had a car but girls couldn’t have cars, I couldn’t have one anyway. But when I went to college, you had to wear socks or







stockings, you could not go bare-legged or whatever. You had to— but anyway, we wore those little white cotton skirts, every little Dundee shoes that were real cute, and socks and flared skirts, you know. And sweaters or whatever. And we skipped off, I told a story. I went, I signed out and went off to that lake and if they’d’ve caught me I’d’ve been sent home. Now that’s how much sense a seventeen year old had. I was seventeen when I went to college. We went out- my boyfriend and I went out to that lake, and there’s a lot of people out there dancing and we danced and danced and had a good time.

	W:	When you listen to this music, that’s what it reminds you of?



	T:	Yeah, and especially that and Glenn Miller. Glenn Miller was really popular then.



And then of course it was the jitterbug. We could slow dance, too, but then he was the best jitterbug dancer I ever danced with. Talkin’ about dancin’ though, in high school I was a sophomore and they had junior/ senior proms, but they have the sophomore serve and everything. So they had a dance once year, up at the fillin’ station Mr. Melton had down there. Now it’s not a fillin’ station anymore, it’s there but they don’t sell gas. They played some good songs. And this senior boy wanted me to dance with him, which I did. So you know, I loved dancin’ and he- his name was Wendell Beaton Ball and could he dance, I am telling you he was a good dancer. So I had fun then, and back at school, every chance I’d get, we’d go out there and dance. But I took a chance I shouldn’t have gone, but anyway, I did. I didn’t smoke, though, I didn’t smoke. But the girls that’d come in my room, because I had four windows, I had an end room up there, and then they’d fan it out the window. I said, “Well you’re giving yourself away, the smoke, they’re







gonna think some Indians are in here with a teepee.” And all those that smoke would go out. I didn’t smoke, I never smoked or drank. So they were smokin’ in my room, anyway, oh lord the time we had. We’d walk to town and oh here’s something funny. My roommate and I, when we were freshmen— our colors were red and white— so we had a little red cap, you know like they wear at the university in orange and blue? And we were walkin’ to town, and this lady, now listen to this. She had this little model eight coupe that had a rumble seat, you know what that is? She stopped and picked us up and we sat in the rumble seat and rode the town with her. And my hair had always been shoulder length, I had long hair and my hair was just blowin’ all over the place. The minute I got there I just did this and my hair was perfect. That other girl she said, “How did you get your hair like that?” I said, “Oh it just went back in place.” But that was another funny thing that I had never experienced before, of riding in a rumble seat.

	W:	I want you to see what these look like, while we’re talking I went ahead and started and I’ll take it back a little bit. [Plays her the recording]

	T:	That is so ugly.



	W:	No, you’re very pretty.



	T:	I didn’t know you were tapin’ me, I could’ve looked better.



	W:	Well I also taped it on the recorder, so if you don’t like those I can get rid of those.

	T:	My neck looks like a chicken. [Laughter]







	W:	I think we found out that the music helps you remember a little bit better. T:	Oh my goodness me. I never get to talk about it.

	W:	I’m on it to have you share some of your stories.



	T:	Things keep happening, you know, coming to mind as I talk about it. I saw Gone with the Wind there.

	W:	At the Priest Theater?



	T:	At the Lakeland Theater. W:	What was that like?

	T:	The Lakeland Theater?



	W:	Well seeing Gone with the Wind at that time.



	T:	Oh, we loved it. My boyfriend, the same one that took me dancin’ took me to see it. It was long, we had an intermission. They also had the people in the theater put on plays downtown and I went to those. We had to wear evening dresses to that and that was fun going to those.

	W:	What was the thing that you liked most about going to school in Lakeland?



	T:	Well I was in the Glee Club, you had to try out to be in it, so I did and I got it and I was in the Glee Club and I was in the College Heights Choir. I just I loved the dining room, we had our meals served in there. We’d get to have three meals a day down there. I say down there because it was lower than the rest of the







campus. I don’t know I just like that we had to walk to somewhere, not far from the place, it was near town, to go swimming. I took swimming lessons for my PE and we had to walk. But you couldn’t go in a bathing suit on campus. You had to wear a raincoat or some kind of coat over it. So we had to wear that and walk to the thing, I didn’t like that but anyway it was fun. Oh and I think I told you before that I worked twelve hours a week to help with my tuition. And one year, I was a model in the art department. Dr. Burn Cohen was the art teacher.

	W:	Now why wouldn’t I believe that?



	T:	Lookin’ like I do today. But you have to remember I was seventeen when I started and now I’m eighty-nine, so I’m supposed to be old.

	W:	You were a very pretty lady then and now, I’ve seen your pictures from then and I’m talking to you now. All that’s changed to me is the color of your hair. I can’t really tell from the other pictures because they were black and white, so your hair might’ve been the same color I couldn’t tell.

	T:	Same color. But my hair was teenagery then, I always had long hair. Well one time, I take it back, I did have it cut. I’ll have to show you some pictures sometime. Would you like to see some pictures sometime?

	W:	Yes ma’am. Countin’ on it.



	T:	One is that picture over there of my sister and me. And it’s, I think that’s a cute thing. She’s about four and I’m two and a half or three.







W:  Your husband took a sharp picture, too, I like all his military pictures. See him in his uniform either with his cap off or on. Look very dapper, very sharp.

T:   Yeah he was cute. He was not very tall but he was strong as an ox. He’d just do like this and Bonnie would be on one arm and I’d be on the other and he’d swing us. He’s a paratrooper, 82nd Airborne.

	W:	My dad was an 82nd Airborne, I think I told you I was born at Fort Bragg. T:	Oh really?

	W:	Out at the old Womack Hospital. T:	Yeah, good. Wow.

	W:	Well we don’t want to wear it out. That’s probably good for this session. [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by: Jessica Lancia	August 2, 2011 Audit-edited by: Cristina Rodriguez	January 11, 2018 Final-Edited by: Sandra Romero	June 23, 2021