AAHP 355; Smith, Peterson, and King; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 355 Barbara Ann Jones Smith, Porter Peterson Jr., and Roger King African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed on February 27, 2008

36 minutes | 19 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 355

Interviewee: Barbara Ann Jones Smith; Porter Peterson Jr.; Roger King Interviewer:

Date: February 27, 2008



	I:	To Roger and Corey, this is history in the making today. So as I said to Barbara, I appreciate you all coming because this is a part of the vision I have for Mebane, and the African American legacy of the A.L. Mebane has to live on. But it can’t without people coming, and understanding, and sharing in your experiences. And that’s what this documentary is. This is Mr. Shaw, who is my technology guru.

And as of now, Mr. Shaw, we have a two-part mini DVD series of the interviews we’ve had? It has been amazing. You will have your own copy as our thank you to you for being a part of this. But also, Dawn’s idea come out of it that we’re looking to sit down with the alumni association and have them for sale if that’s what you want to do. And part of the proceeds will go to the school for the purchase of smart boards—we need some. Things like that, or some technology, so that the A. L. Mebane High School can—.

	U1:	Okay. That sounds great.



	I:	This room is a year and a half in the making. When I came and I started, the first time I met with the alumni association, one of the things we wanted to do was to just say, “Let’s look at how we can preserve the legacy of the high school, but yet have it be an educational tool for our children. And have this as a classroom piece, not just a room for people to come to.” And a year and a half later, this is what we’ve got. And this is the start. People that have been coming for the interviews have donated things. It’s in a traditional high school area. It’s secure. We’ve made copies, ACT has a notebook, and so does Douglass, of their beginnings, because that’s where the people that really came to Mebane started.





Here you have Mr. Mebane, he was a principal at Douglass for thirty years. You had folks that came from Douglass, and when school was closed, opted out either to come to Mebane, or either Newberry, or other places. So, we’ve gotten that in the last day and a half.

	K:	Y’all been busy!



	I:	Oh, please! I don’t do things halfway! [Laughter] So what I want you to do is, I’m not going to introduce you, and the questions that you have aren’t going to be just number one, number two. It’s going to come up in your responses. So, it’s not going to be, “Well, Ms. Smith,” or “Mr. Peterson,” or—. It’s not going to be that. I’ll ask you just to say a little bit about who you are. And then what I’d like you to do is just tell me about your experiences from elementary through up through Mebane, and just a prod, because we’ve been tying in those experiences to our interviews. So it’s going be something awesome when we get done. Want to go first? Tell us a little bit about who you are.

	S:	Well first of all, I’m Barbara Ann Jones Smith. I graduated in 1966 from A. L. Mebane High School. I did not start school at Douglass. My first two years, I’m an old Terrier, I started Lincoln High School. I went to Lincoln first, second, and fourth grade. I went to the new Lincoln when I was in seventh grade. And my parents’ divorce in seventh grade, I’ve been back in High Springs since I was thirteen. So I’ve been there the rest of my life. The class that I would’ve finished with from Lincoln, which were the Terriers, I still have some cohesiveness there with them. I recognize quite a bit because I started off with that class. And my first grade teacher, who left a very strong impression, she lived a long time. And





you may know her: Mrs. Allen. She just died, what? Last year, I think it was. She was my first grade teacher. My second grade teacher was Mrs. Debose. Then my fourth grade teacher was a Daniels, everybody used to call her brother Big Fat Pat Daniels, but she became Mrs. Alice. My seventh grade teacher when I went to Lincoln, my homeroom sponsor was Mrs. Alexander. Then you have the changing of their classes. So then, moving back to High Springs, I got a chance to know—third grade, Mrs. Eunice Simmons taught me third grade. But after Christmas, that’s when Essie Gassett—Mrs. Simmons went back to school, went back to Cookman to college. And Essie Gassett took over. So I was in that class. Sixth grade, Thelma Caffey was my sixth grade teacher. And Lord knows seventh grade was Mr. Maxey. Who will forget? He was my seventh grade teacher. And that’s when you begin to change classes, seventh through eighth grade, all seventh and eighth graders changed classes. And Catherine Taylor was my eighth grade teacher. I had a lot of fun, the middle grades. Well, in fifth grade, I forgot about Roger’s aunt; Mrs. Wilson, was my fifth grade teacher. And I never forget her from Singing Wheels, that was a book that we had to read.

	I:	Oh, what was the name of the name of it?



	S:	Singing Wheels. It was a book we studied every day. We read out of it. And that was one of the things my first grade teacher, Mrs. Allen, always said: “Learn to read! Because if you learn to read, you can go anywhere.” And I had my ninth grade sponsor, well ninth through eleventh grade, here at Mebane. Mrs. Miller. Ethel D. Miller was homeroom sponsor. And she would always share with us, because she was our homeroom teacher. And I had her from ninth grade through





eleventh grade, and then we changed over. And Mr. Burgess became my home room teacher. I’m sorry Mr.—I was with Mr. Burgess, but they split the classes up. They start off with just two twelfth grade classes, but it were so many of us that they had to have three. But in that ninth grade class, it was seven groups of us, it was seven classes. But by the time we got to twelfth grade, it ended up only being three.

I:  That’s been the experience we’ve had. Tell me about the sponsors. Were those individuals, was that your homeroom teacher, or was that person someone that was an advisor to you, or was that—? Was that just that the—?

K:  Well sometimes, all the above. I remember our sponsors were Mrs. Whitfield and Mrs. Medlock. As I listen to you, Barbara; lots of changes! There’s just a slight bit of difference from the time that I graduated and the time that she graduated. And by the way, I never knew that you went to school in Gainesville.

[Talking over each other] [Laughter]



	K:	But then like I say, I’m just a tad bit older! But, I’m Roger King, and I’m from High Springs originally. I’m from the class of 1959. So I was the third graduating class from this school. And in those days, coming here to a new school, it was an entirely awesome experience. First of all, we had never been exposed to that many people. That many children. You know, and I just thought that—well, I went home and told my momma, “This school is ginormous!” [Laughter] But I think that we had maybe about eleven hundred to twelve hundred students in those days.

	I:	Really?



	K:	Mmhm, mmhm.





	U1:	It was twelve hundred, K-12. Because there were originally twelve here.



	K:	Because I haven’t heard very much mention about Newberry. But the Newberry high school students came into—I came here to Mebane in the tenth grade. Of course, that made me be here for three years. Now, my Douglas experience in High Springs was—we walked to school in those days. I lived on the west end of town. And we had our special little route that we would walk. I came—well of course, during the days of segregation, there was a lot of racial tension in those days. If we walked the main road to the school, they had a special side of the road that we were required to walk on. But some of us, being rebellious, we had our own route that we established so that we just wouldn’t do. “Just because you said this is the side we gonna walk on, no we’re not. We’ll just walk down side the rail road tracks.”

	U1:	Courageous.



	K:	Courageous. So, that was the way that we went to school. There were some problems, because usually when you went the main way to school, you were always gonna encounter somebody that thought you shouldn’t be where you were at the time. So, that created lots of problems. In those days, it was a commonplace thing, and I didn’t realize that the depth of it until actually I was a grown person and I could see the kind of effect that could have on—

	U2:	We were talking about that earlier.



	K:	Uh-huh. And it all comes into focus for me now. So I never went to a high school in an integrated situation. And our days here were fine, because I think that we—





“we” meaning the early classes that came here—we were very instrumental in getting things started for this—

	I:	Was it beginning for you? So that you could start to build, and have that sense of doing that?

	K:	Yes. Right. And we were instrumental in selecting our school colors. We were instrumental in helping to compose our school song. And all those kinds of things meant a whole lot to us.

	I:	Because it was yours. It was inspired from where you came from, too. I think in the experiences we’ve had in talking to the different interviewees, they said coming from where it was a traditional Black school. And you didn’t have a cafeteria, necessarily. You brought your own lunch. And into different periods that you walked to school. But this sense of coming to a school that was new, and it was very different from what you were used to—

	K:	Very much so.



	S:	—because you had this small group of people that you went to school with. And you would go to school with those people, so you knew them. In my class at Douglass in 1962, it was only twenty-three of us. Thirteen boys, twelve girls.

	K:	You had twenty-three? My class stopped at thirteen. We had some graduating classes from Douglass of nine people.

	U3:	Nine total?



	K:	Nine total. Mmhm.



	I:	I think some people shared, too, that a lot of siblings had to go to help provide for the family. Had to go to work. So you would start out with a larger group of





people, but at some point you’d lose people, too, for whatever, but also to people having to help support the family.

	K:	Right. You know, I can remember in those days when I came along, if you were lucky enough, you got a chance to go to school, that was a family endeavor.

	I:	The village.



	K:	The village! Everybody around helped keep you school. And of course, I’m a product of that. But there were lots of changes now that I’ve experienced. I can remember, like you say, having the bag lunches right before we had our cafeteria. I think that I was maybe in the ninth grade before the cafeteria was built at Douglass. We didn’t always have one. When it was lunch break, you just ate at your desk. You simply took out your little brown bag, and you had lunch right at your desk. If it was good weather out, or if it was the spring or something like that, you could go outside under the tree and have your lunch. I can remember at Douglass having outdoors bathroom. Yes, at Douglass. I can remember at Douglass having individual heaters per classroom. I can remember at Douglass, classroom walls didn’t go all the way up to the ceiling. Sometimes there was just the rooms with half-walls. I can remember all that. I was at Douglass when they finally installed the radiators.

	U4:	That’s what they had when I went.



	K:	Because we’d be in a ruckus in some of the classrooms sometimes, and completely knock the pipes out of the walls for the heaters. So, I’ve just seen so many changes!

	S:	Over time.





	K:	And coming here, which of course was totally different experience: larger classrooms, more students. There was a lot of rivalry.

	P:	Yes, a lot of competition. K:	Lot of competition! [Talking over each other]

	K:	Now my favorite teacher, here and at Douglass, was Mr. Caffey. I.H. Caffey. Do you remember him?

	I:	Mmhm, yes sir.



	K:	And I can remember he would get so disgusted with us sometimes when we were not doing what we should have been doing. Now, Mr. Caffey at Douglass held many different positions. His room was the library, which consisted of one set of encyclopedias. His room was a classroom. His room functioned as an office. His room, as I’d describe it, was the bell-ringing room. Let me tell you about the bell-ringing: now, when I started school—. [Laughter] I might sound ancient here, but when I started school, they had bells. Hand bells.

	S:	Mr. Mebane used to ring them! And at ACT, yes, ma’am!



	K:	Now, my kids thought that was—“What, bells?” I said “Yes!” Now, there were a big bell that made a loud sound for the coming in. We would line up, also, to come in. The high school lined up at the end over at the end, over near the auditorium, and elementary came in from—I think that maybe was the south end. And we lined up and came to our classes. We always had devotion, before class started, and this is just the way it was there. We looked forward to things like school closing plays.





	S:	And then their “operettas,” they called them. I:	What’d they call them?

	S:	Operettas.



	K:	And Ms. Catherine Taylor, that she has alluded to, she was the everything at Douglass School. She was the choreographer for all the dances that the Little Daisies and Flowers and stuff would have to do. Now, my year—what word would I use? Well, my greatest year at Douglas, I was the woodsman in the school closing play. Of course, the name of the play was Little Red Riding Hood. Hazel Dixon, she was Little Red Riding Hood.

	S:	And Isabelle’s sister.



K:  Yeah. And these things we looked forward to. We looked forward to the May Day Festivals. The plaiting of the Maypole. We played all of our sports, basketball and all those, on a clay court. Clay.

	I:	Ms. Moore was saying that she played basketball on—. So Mr. Peterson, you said there was a lot of rivalry, or competition rather?

	P:	Yes, my name is Porter Peterson, I was the class of June of 1970. Actually, our class was the last class to attend Mebane. We graduated from Santa Fe High School. Yes, communities: High Springs, Alachua, Newberry, Monteocha, Brooker area. We played sports together, but as far as competition go, we always competed against one another.

	S:	Mmhm. And it was strong rivalries, very strong. I:	Lincoln and Mebane—





	S:	But even though there was the rivalry between these people that went to school here, but when we came together as one, like if we had to play Lincoln or, it was a community kind of thing. Because just to piggyback on what Porter was saying, every morning I would ride the bus from Douglass to Mebane. Well, class didn’t start until eight o’clock. And like you see even now, I always had this finesse, and they would tell me, “Barbara Ann Jones, you crazy!” Because see the bus used to put the kids off from Brooker and LaCrosse around here. [Inaudible 18:52], where the lab is on that side. But that was their bus. And see, I would get off on the front. Because Alachua, Newberry—when I say “Alachua,” I’m talking about that way. Bland. And Newberry and High Springs would get off on front, and these others, LaCrosse, they would get off back here. Well, I would make it my business to inspect everybody that got off the bus. “Your socks need—. Girl, your legs need lotioning. Your hair need brushing.” I would do this.

	I:	Student-led inspection.



	P:	Ooh, you just didn’t come to school looking any kind of way.



	S:	And I would do that, and they would tell me, “You can’t tell those kids from Monteocha.” But I was just crazy enough to tell them that.

	I:	It was expectation too.



	S:	Yeah, that was my expectation. Because my mom expected it of me, so I expected. And they were like young ones, you know, and when you’re the older, you had siblings in the elementary department. And if you were older, you needed to make sure that bows are laying in right, and the socks, the shoes—

	I:	It was your responsibility.





	S:	Yes, and it was a lot for a child, but that’s the way it was. But I would. So thank you for sharing that, Mr. Peterson, but that was a rivalry. And as I got older—and when I say I got older, when I got in the eleventh grade I had this friend of mine, and he said to me, “Barbara Ann Jones, I was always skinny, because everybody had to look a certain way, and if you didn’t look that way you’d ream them.” But that was just me. And I said, “Well, I was like that?” And he told me, “Since we’ve been adults”—and I said, “Was I that bad?” I’m sure I was, but I didn’t know it.

	I:	It was setting the bar. It was the expectation. Because we’ve heard a lot about what you had to do. School was your job. You came to school to be educated. And the expectations were when you were in that classroom, from standing in line to begin school with the bell ringing, the individual bell, and looking at what those teachers expected with so little. With so little. And you didn’t talk a whole lot about, tell me about athletics. Let’s talk a little bit about that. Because that was a form of the extracurricular. That was something, too, that if you excelled in something, that was that sense of, “I’m successful at doing this, but I know what my priority is.” So talk, Mr. Peterson, a little bit about that?

	P:	We took a lot of pride in our athletic program as far as our football and basketball. And I think one of the people that had the most influence in my life was Mr. Banks, Mr. Allen Banks, which was my science teacher and my football coach. Mr. Banks, he would always use an example—he would use a lot of illustrations, because he would talk about, like, dollars. Based on the education, the more education you had, the more money you could make. And he wouldn’t down certain people, but say if a certain truck came on campus, he would look at





that truck and he would say, “You see that person on that truck? He’s doing physical work. He going be tired when he gets home. Tonight, I’m going home and work in my garden.”

	I:	Work smart.



	P:	You know what I’m saying? When we was on the field, he taught us to compete. He taught us to think. If we didn’t perform, at halftime we would go in the room, and he would have a man in there with a head. And that head would have a bone through it. And he say, “You playing like a bonehead, you don’t have a brain.”

	I:	Just the impact of that.



	P:	So that taught us that we needed to out, we needed to perform, we needed to think about what we was doing just as if we was in class. So to me, Mr. Banks, he had the most influence on my life. Because he taught me how to perform on the field, and he taught me how to perform in class, which enhanced my—once I got out into the work world. Taught me how to deal with people by playing sports, being a team. I know how to work with people and get things done.

	I:	Learning from that and taking from that, yes.



	P:	The curriculum part, it helped me in doing my job. Whether it’s math, whether it’s English, or whatever it is.

	S:	And to add along to what Porter just said, I’ve got my letter. I was a cheerleader. [Laughter] Mebane. We called it “Pep Squad.” We started off just being cheerleaders, and then when basketball season, Ms. Lillian Burgess, who was in the elementary department, Mr. Burgess’ wife, we were Pom-Pom Girls. So I got the chance to be a pom-pom girl, also. But, they expected—like, he played the





sports. And we were cheerleaders. We had to get out and do the same exercises.

	I:	Physical. Be in shape.



	S:	What they did, practicing, because Mrs. Mary Lewis—well, at that time she was Mrs. McKnight, who is my mentor, she caused me to be who I am today in a sense. But we would actually have to do those exercises Porter and them had to do. And we would rehearse our cheers. And I could never figure out, “Why do we have to this, “Jump up, sting like a bee” kind of exercise, and put all this [inaudible 24:29]?” And I can’t think of the name but Mrs. Burgess said—you guys would know it. I can’t think of the name of it, but the strategy of the calls they would call. I used to—the plays. But I don’t know them, but they would practice right out here on this back lot. And we would go with them and do their exercises. Then once that was over with, we would go over by the band room on the front and do our cheers. You know, practice for cheerleading. And at that time, we had no buses, activity buses. Mrs. McKnight lived in Gainesville, she used to drive us cheerleaders home, every day. Our parents didn’t come and get us. They had to work; they had no—. And she was responsible for us. But the thing of it was, they interviewed for it now, they selected us. Yes, you tried out, and she would tell you who made it. You know, some have a list who made it. It wasn’t like that with me, it wasn’t. I’d put it like that.

	I:	You were hand-picked?





S:  We were hand-selected, and you had to learn the cheer. And I also have with me my school spirit. I won a school spirit award. It’s a necklace. Let me get it for you: I brought my stuff out.

I:  [Laughter] Yes, you did! K:  You are ready!

	S:	They bought it for me. My name was turned in addition to the ninth graders. It’s a little charm. Herb Jones, you guys. Y’all remember Herb Jones. Used to come out of Jacksonville. But it’s a little pendant, but I don’t wear it any longer.

	I:	While you’re doing that, I’ll talk to Mr. Peterson and Mr. King. Tell me about—and we’re gonna summarize it in just a few minutes. But, where has your educational experience—and I think you alluded to it, Mr. Porter, and so did you, Roger and Barbara—but tell me how—. For me, it still takes a village. It still takes a village to educate and to support children. And to support, because we are products of a village. And it’s not necessarily that way now. But when you look at the success of your journey, and where you’ve been, and the impact on things that had on your life, and where you are; these things, you value. When you value things, they have substance. They mean something. And it could be the smallest thing as a pin. It could be the smallest thing as coming and being a part of something that you start. It could be a part of being a leader, not only in the classroom, but on that court, or on that field. That’s what—in summarizing, just quickly tell me: how has what, in the days of your journey through Mebane, and where you are now. What was the most important thing? What had the most impact on you?





	K:	The most impact on me was the interest that the teachers took in us, which made us want to do the very best that we could, taking in mind that we came along at a time when we had very few materials. But those teachers worked with what they had, and they taught us from a lot of experience they had experienced, letting us know what we were going to be up against when we were finally out into the world.

	I:	Preparing you life’s lessons. Classroom, but life’s lessons.



	K:	And all of those things that I learned has helped me right up to this very moment.



And I think that those things helped me be a better parent, in encouraging my children to just push, and push, and really go after what it is that you want.

	I:	Because you have to. There has to be some drive in what you do.



	K:	So I really attribute all that to teachers that were interested in where you were going, and what you needed to take with you to get there.

	P:	I have the same feeling. A lot of it was the teachers knowing your parents. The teachers knowing your parents. If you got in trouble at school, and the teacher called home and said that you was in trouble, it was no question about it. The parent didn’t even have to visit the school to find out whether the teacher was telling the truth. So, discipline. Not only was discipline at home, discipline was at the school system. Vice versa. Okay? [claps twice.] The paddling was there. The paddling was there. Which made me afraid, because if they told me that I need to go see Mr. Burgess, the first was—it might’ve been about football, but I thought I was going to have to get a beating. And I was scared, I was afraid. That’s Mr.

Hall. Because I knew that those guys, if they need to put a paddling on you, that





you would remember it for a long time. And once you got home, you was going get another paddling. So, to make a long story short, it’s just that things like that and knowing you parents. Teachers cared about you, like you said. That was the bottom line. That’s not saying that teachers don’t care about the parents now, but it’s a little different.

	I:	It’s a different time. It is. It’s a different time.



	S:	Okay, now what I want to share is, my homeroom sponsor caused me to be the way that I am. And when I say home teacher, you were only there about ten minutes. But she would see our report cards. If you had a F, you were Frankie. If you had a D, you were David. If you had a C, you were Caroline. [Laughter] And you could do that, and that was, “That could be better. You can do better. I don’t expect this. I’m your homeroom sponsor; I don’t want to see this on your report cards.” And interest, as Brother Roger has said, she was interested even though she was not my instructor. She made us—she pulled the good out of us. I don’t care how bad a student you were—and when I say student, I’m not talking academically, just a person. There was always some good effort, she would say, within you. But you had to let what she said penetrate your heart. And once it penetrate your heart, it made you—“Well, I can do better.”

	I:	You believed it.



	S:	I believed. And see, my mom would tell us—I never shall forget, she gave us this illustration. She had an old wringer washer. She said, “I only have an tenth grade education. And you don’t have to have a wringer washer to put two tubs out with water in it, and run the clothes through the wringer. You could buy your





automatic. So get an education.” That was the key. You’ve got to have an education, and you’ve got an education, you can go places. And Mrs. Miller always would tell us, “Read. Read. Read. Read. And if you read and you’re in a city like we are now, even though you haven’t been to that country, you could talk about that country. Because you read about it.”

	I:	Go there.



	S:	Go there, and that’s what she said. And my mom was the same way. So that I was like that with my kids. I wanted more for them, but I don’t see them pushing.

	I:	Or having the drive.



	S:	Having the drive, thank you, as we had. Back then, as Roger or even Porter used to say, “Get a high school diploma. Then you can go to college.” I was like nine hours from finishing college—junior college, at least—but I did get a chance to go, and I relished the benefits of it. But it helped me in my job. Because you know, I retired from the school before that. It elevated me. I went from a local chapter, to our state chapter, and went on to our national chapter. I served there for three years. But it was God that did it—and that was another thing. Our parents had devotion, as I said, every day. We had assembly. Every Monday morning, we had it here at Mebane—because Mr. Palmer, who was the band director, and Detroit Williams was the chorus director? Those two men would sing songs that we sung at church. But see, you can’t do that now. And we would have assembly then, and we would go on to our classes. Those were the kind of things that made me a better person and prepared me for life. Because I knew what to do. You worked hard, you could achieve anything that you put your mind





to. Just because you’re told you can’t, sometimes you could take that told “you can’t do it” and work to your advantage. And that’s what I tell my grands right now: just because they said it does not have to—

	I:	You don’t have to believe it. S:	You have to believe.

	I:	You have to value it.



	S:	And we valued that. The teachers here cared about you, and if you acted up, you got indecent grades, they would tell you. And as Porter said, they would call. I had them come to our house because I was cutting up.

	K:	Many visits they made to my house.



	S:	But I didn’t want my momma to know that. Because I was such a good girl! I:	Let’s see some of your—

	S:	Okay, this is my class ring. I was a tiny girl. A size seven. I can’t wear it nowhere on this right here. [Laughter] It was on this finger, my class ring: sixty-five bucks. My first piece of jewelry. I will never forget this. My class ring. Ten-carat gold. I used to have that little—what you call it? They call it CVs? But [inaudible 35:09] this is real. I kept mine. I got my necklace, and my school spirit one I was looking for, uh-huh. And you didn’t touch on, we had—like, this is my class ring. You couldn’t put this ring on until we had ring ceremony.

	I:	Oh, really!



	K:	Yes!



	S:	No ma’am. Unh-huh. This ring is dedicated. Everybody got their rings, but then you would go to the auditorium, the other classes would—well, we had it at night.





But the other classes, they wanted to come, they could see it. And then all the seniors got their rings. So, it was consecrated. You could get it, but you better not wear it in school. If you had it, you had [inaudible 36:01]. And you dared not wear it, because if you did, you were in trouble.

	I:	Thank you sharing. Thank you, Ms. Smith. Thank you, Mr. Peterson, Mr. King. [End of recording]





	Transcribed by:	Krystal Dixon, May 2017 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, June 22, 2018

	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 25, 2019